OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

undoubtedly. the better practice for courts to caution juries
against too much reliance upon the testimony of accomplices,
and to require corroborating testimony before giving credence
to them. But no such charge was asked to be presented to
the jury by any proper request in the case, and the refusal to
grant the one asked for was not error.
Other questions are raised in the case as to the admissibility of certain testimony; we have examined them and find
nothing prejudicial to the rights of the petitioner.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,

affirmed.
Affirmed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. JOSEPHINE. KING.
SAME v. INEZ KING.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL-

FOR TIE

FrH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 140, 141.

Argued April 6, 7, 1910:.-Decided May 16, 1910.

The right to regulate interstate commerce is exclusively vested in
Congress, and the States cannot pass any law directly regulating
such commerce; but the States may, in the. exercise of the police
power, pass laws in the interest of public safety which do not interfere directly with the operations of interstate commerce.
The constitutionality of a state statute regulating operation of railroad trains depends upon its effect on interstate commerce; and, in
the absence of congressional regulation on the subject, States may
make reasonable regulations as to the manner in which trains shall
approach, and give notice of their approach'to, dangerous crossing,.
so long as they are not a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
One who would strike down a statute as unconstitutional must show
.that it affects h'im injuriously and actually deprives him of a constitutional right.
Proof must conform to the allegations and without proper allegations
•testimony cannot be admitted.
A pleading must state facts and not mere conclusions; and the want of

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO; . KING.
217 U..

525

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

essential definite allegations renders a pleading subject to demurrer.
This general rule is also the practice in Georgia.
General statements that. a statute is in violation of the commerce
clause of the. Federal Constitution, is a direct burden on interstate
commerce, and impairs the usefulness of the pleader's facilities for
that purpose, are mere conclusions and n6t statements of the facts
whichl make the operation of the.'statute unconstitutional, and do
not raise any defense to a cause of action.based on a violation of'
such statute.
160 Fed.: Rep. 332, affirmed..
TiHE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a statute
of Georgia regulating the crossing of highways by railroad
trains, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John J. Strickland, with whom Mr A. P. Thorn and
Mr Hamilton McWhorter were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error:
The amendment alleging that the Blow Post statute is void
because a burden upon interstate commerce was in proper form
and conformed to the laws of Georgia and properly raised
the constitutional question. .S. F & W. Ry. v. Hardin, 110
Georgia, 433; Brown v. State, 114 Georgia, 60; Sayor v. Brown,

119 Georgia, 542.
When a constitutional question is not made or passed upon
in the lower court, the court of review will not consider it,
though afterward argued there. The reverse of the proposition is likewise true. Butder v. Merritt, 113 Georgia, 241;
Lafitte v. Burke,.113 Georgia, 1000; State v. Henderson, 120
Georgia, 781; Newkirk v. Sou. Ry. Co., 120 Georgia, 1048;
Parham v. Potts-Thompson Liquor Co., 127 Georgia, 303.
The evidence,.0ffered and rejected by the court, properly
raised the constitutional question. All that is required by
the laws of Georgia is that the question shall be raised below,
and be passed on directly or indirectly and appear in the
record either in the pleadings, or the evidence, or other parts
of the record. Cases cited supra. Parham v. Potts-Thompson
Liquor Co., 127 Gerbrgia, 303; S. F. & W. Ry. Co. v. Hardin,

OUrOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

217 U. S.

110 Georgia, 433; Newuan v. StAt, 101 Georgia, 531; Lafite v.
Burke, 113 Georgia, 1000. Under the law of Georgia all objections to evidence not made are waived. Jackson v. State,
88 Georgia, 784; Steed v. Cruise, 70 Georgia, 168; Christian v.
State, 86 Georgia, 430; Rhinehart v. Blackshear, 105 Georgia,
799; Summers v. State, 116 Georgia, 535.
Commerce among the States consists, among other things,
in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms the transportation and transit of persons and property and the instrumentalities thereof. Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Williams v. Fears, 179
U. S. 270; Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321.
There is no reserved power in the States to, in any way,
regulate interstate commerce. Where the apparent exercise
of power has been upheld by the courts, the power was either
the mere declaration of a common law duty as applied to the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce or the exercise of some
other reserved power not pertaining to commerce. Cooke's
Commerce Clause of Fed. Const. 111, 124; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 92; 3 Elliott on Railroads,
1156.
If the authority to regulate an interstate railroad train at a
public crossing is embraced in the police power of a State,
that authority must be so exercised as not to burden or impede the interstate traffic of the company, or impair the usefulness of its facilities for the traffic. The police power of a
State is not unlimited and is subject to judicial review, and
when exercised in an arbitrary or oppressive manner, such
laws may be annulled as violative of the rights protected by
the Constitution. Illinois Cent. R. R. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 154;
L. S. & M. S. R. R. v. State of Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; see
pp. 309 and 335; Cleveland & Chicago R. R. v. St. Louis R. R.,
177 U. S. 514; Miss. R. R. Comnission v: Ill. Cent., 203 U. S.
335; Atlantic Coast Line v. N. C. Vommission, 206 U. S. 1;
Morgan Steamship Co. v. Louisiana Bd. of Health, 118 U. S.
455, Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U S. 25; Lawler v. Steele,

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

152 U. S. 133; Henderson' v. New York, 92 U. S. 259;
Lochner v. New York,. 198 U. S. 45; Holden v. Hardy,.164
U. S. 366; Connolly .v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227; Mo. Ry. Co. v. Harber, 169 U. S. 613;
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 :U. S. 223; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 547.
Congress, alone, can deal with such interstate transportation and its non-action is a declaration that it shall
remain free from burdens imposed by state legislation.
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
Although it is expressly provided that the power of
Congress to regulate shall be exclusive, it is obvious that
in order to be effective, the exercise thereof must exclude
the exercise of any conflicting power under authority of
the State; inconsistent state legislation being to that extent superseded. Cooke's Commerce Clause of Fed. Constitution, 109; Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100. Police power cannot control in a case like this. Henderson v. Mayor of N. Y.,
92 U. S. 259; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 25.
Federal control of c6mmerce begins as soon as the subjects or operations of commerce are subjected to burdensome state legislation. Prentice & Eagan, p. 61; Walling
v. Michigan, 110 U. S. 446; Robinson v. Taxing District,
124 U. S. 489; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; McCall v.
California,139 U. S. 104; Brennan v. City of Titusville, 153
U. S. 289.
The statute under review is unconstitutional and void
as to interstate railroads. There is no common-law duty
on a carrier to check its trains at a crossing, so as to stop
if any person or thing should be thereon, and there is no
reserved power in a State to impose such burden on an
interstate carrier.
The act as applied to .through trains is unreasonable.
L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co. v. State of Ohio, 173 U. S. 301.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

The act in effect is to regulate an interstate carrier,
and- thus interstate commerce. Brown v. Houston, 114
U. S. 622; Welling v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691'.
To regulate is to adjust by rule, method, or established
mode; to direct by rule, or restriction; to subject, to governing principles or laws. Webster's Int. Dict.
The effect of the statute is to burden, impede, and to
impair the usefulness of the facilities of interstate carriers
for such traffic. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S.
154; Miss. R. R. Comm. v. Ill. Cent., 203 U. S. 346.
The statute is not observed, and the engineers are not
prosecuted for its violation, though the statute so requires.
Penal Code of Ga., § 517, provides he shall be punished
as for a misdemeanor by § 2222 of the Civil Code.
The statute was passed before the days of interstate
railroads; it was enacted by the State for the railroads -of
the State as they were then operated. Interstate carriers
operate by virtue of an act of Congress passed since the
day of the Georgia statute, and which had the effect to
supersede the Blow Post statute of Georgia... Rev. Stat.,

§5258.
The evolution of the business world has rendered obsolete the statute under review.
Mr. Reuben R. Arnold for detendant in error:
Plaintiff in error has not made its questions in such a
way that this court can consider them.
The court is not bound by a conclusion of a;. pleader
that the statute is a burden on 'interstate commerce.
The rule in pleading here is analogous to the pleading in
cases. of fraud. A general charge' of fraud in a pleading
always counts for nothing; the particulars constituting
the fraud must be set forth. - Parham & Co. v. PottsThompson Liquor Co., 127 Georgia, 303; Newkirk v.
Southern Railway Co., 120 Georgia, 1048.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING.
217 U. S.

529

Argument for Defendant in Frror.

The defendant may, by proper pleadings, raise issues
of law, or of fact, legal or equitable, or both. All issues
of law shall be raised by demurrer. All issues of fact
shall be raised'by plea or answer, which may be of a dilatory nature, or to the merits.
Inasmuch as written pleadings are required, the defendant had.no basis for any evidence on this alleged con-,
stitutional objection, after its plea had been stricken out.
Jfncidental or remote effect on interstate commerce
does not vitiate legislation. Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S.
99; Chicago R. R. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133.
Decisions on state legislation directly seeking to control
commerce, are not in point here. Legislation in case at
bar is an aid to interstate commerce. Legislation by a
State, which. directly undertakes to regulate commerce,
is void; while other legislation, which incidentally affects
it equally as much as a direct regulation of it, has been
held valid. The acts and orders construed in Atlantic &c.
R. R. v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 334; Miss. R. R. Comm. v.
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Cleveland R. R. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Illinois v. Illinois &c. R. R. Co., 163
U. S. 141, involved unreasonable burdens upon interstate
commerce and are easily distinguished.
The case at bar belongs to an entirely different class,
such as Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Crutcher v,
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Lake Shore R. R. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 286; Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427, 430; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 300; and see Erb v. Morasch,
177 U. S. 584, holding that "a regulation by a city of the
speed of railroad trains within the city limits is not, as
to interstate trains, an unconstitutional regulation of interstate commerce,-at least until Congress takes action
in the matter."
The Blow Post law was passed in 1852, and every railroad company in Georgia takes its franchise and its right
to operate subject to the provision of this law, which
VOL. CCXVn-&l

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

has been sustained and applied by the Supreme Court of
Georgia in many cases. A full history of this statute.
will be found in Souther Railway v. Combs, 124 Georgia,
1004; Railroad v. Davis, 18 Georgia, 679; Railroad v.
Wynn, 19 Georgia, 440, and Railroadv. Wynn, 26 Georgia,
250.
It is entirely consistent with the terms of this statute,
that trains can run at full speed over crossings in the
great majority of instances.
It is within the power of the State to require certain
measures of diligence on the part of those operating trains
when passing over dangerous places like grade crossings.
If this law works a hardship upon the railroads, .they can
construct underground or overhead crossings.
To maintain grade crossings is dangerous and is so
recognized everywhere; some States have abolished grade
crossings altogether. See Railroad v. Braddock R. R., 152
Pa. St. 116; Westbrook's Appeal, 57 Connecticut, 95.'
If the 'State can abolish grade crossings altogether it
can impose upon the. railroads' using such dangerous
places almost any conceirvable condition before allowing
their use. The power to altogether. prohibit 'certainly
includes the power to regulate.
MR.

JusTCz DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were tried together in the Circuit Court
and were so *considered in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and will be so disposed of heie. In No. 140, Josephine
King brought her suit in the Superior Court of Habersham County, Georgia, to recover $10,000 against the
Southern Railway Company for the wrongful death of
her husband, killed while riding in a buggy at a crossing
of the defendgant's railway, The alleged negligence was
the violation of a certain statute of the State of Georgia,
in that the company failed to check and to keep checking

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the speed of its train while approaching the crossing at
which her husband was killed.
In case No. 141, the action was brought by Inez King
by her next friend, Josephine King, in the same court,
because of injuries received at the same time and place,
and in alleged violation of the same statute. Both cases
were removed to the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern Division of the Northern District of Georgia.
Upon trial verdicts and judgments were rendered against
the railroad company. These judgments were affirmed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
160 Fed. Rep. 332; 87 C. C. A. 284. The cases were then
brought here by writs of certiorari
The Federal question presented concerns the validity
of the statute of the State of Georgia for violation of
which a recovery was had, it being the contention of the
petitioner that the statute is in violation of the interstate
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, in that it is
an illegal burden upon and a regulation of interstate commerce. * This statute is found in § 2222 of the Civil Code
of Georgia, and reads as follows:
"There must be fixed -on the line of said road, and at
the distance of 400 yards from the center of each of such
road crossings, and on each side thereof, a post, and the
engineer shall be required, whenever he shall arrive at
either of said posts, to blow the whistle of. the locomotive until it arrives at the public road, and to simultaneously check anti keep checking the speed thereof so
as to stop in time should any person or thing be, crossing
said track on said road."
It has been frequently decided in this court that the
right to regulate interstate commerce is, by virtue of the
Federal Constitution, exclusively vested in the Congress
of the United States. The States cannot pass any law
directly regulating such commerce.. Attempts to do so
have been declared unconstitutional in many instances,

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. s.

and the exclusive power in Congress to regulate such
commerce uniformly maintained. While this is true, the
rights of the States to pass laws not having*the effect to
regulate -or directly interfere with the operations of interstate .commerce, passed in the exercise of the police
power of the State in the interest of the public health and
safety, have been maintained by the decisions of this court.
We may instance some of the cases of this nature in which
"statutes have been held not to be a regulation of iAterstate commerce, although they may affect the transaction'
of such commerce among the States. In.Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, it was held. to be within the police
power of the State to require locomotivy engineers to: be
examined and licensed. In N. Y., N. H.. & H.. Railroad
Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628, a- law regulating the
heating of passenger cars and requiring guard posts on
bridges was sustained. In Lake Shore R, R. Co. V. Ohio,
173 U. S. 286, it was held to be a valid enactment to require railway companies operating within the State of
Ohio to cause three of its regUlar passenger trains to stop
each way daily at every viage containing over three
thousand inhabitants. In Erb v. Moraech, 177 Ti. a. 584,
it was held that a municipal ordinance of Kansas City,
Kansas, although applicable to interstate trains, which. reStricted the speed of all trains within the city limits to six
miles an hour, was a valid exertion of the police power of
the State. In the case of Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.
47, this court said:
"It is also within the undoubted province of the State
legislature to make regulations with regard to the speed
of railroad trains in the neighborhood of cities and towns;
with regard to the precautions to be taken in the approach
of such trains to bridges, tunnels, deep cuts .and sharp
curves; and, generally, with regard to all operations in
which the lives and health of people may be endangered,
even though such regulations affect to some extent the

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING.
217 U. S.

533

Opinion of the Cotirt.

operations of interstate commerce. Such regulations are
eminently local in their chracter, and, in the absence of
Congressional regulations over the same subject, are free
from all constitutional objections, and unquestionably
valid."•
"On the other:hand, it has been held to be an.illegal
attempt to regulate interstate. commerce to require interstate passenger trains to stop'at county seats when
adequate. train service had -already been provided for
local traffic. C. C. C. & St. L. R..R. Co; v. Illinois, 177
U. S.- 514..' In Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illi-.
nois Central Railroad Company, 203 U. S. 335, it was held
that orders. of a state: railroad commission which directed
the stopping of interstate trains at certain 'local stations,
where adequate transportation facilities had.already been
provided, was an unlawful attempt to regulate interstate
commerce and repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
Applying the general rule to be -deduced from these
cases to such regulations as are under consideration here,
it is: evident that the constitutionality, of such statutes
will depend upon .their effect upon interstate commerce.
It is consistent with the former decisions of this.court and
with. a. proper. interpretation of constitutional, rights, at
least in,the- absence of Congressional action .upon the
same subject-matter, for the State to.regulate, the manner in which interstate trains shall approach dangerous
crossings, the signals which shall be given, and the control of the train which shall be required under such circumstances. Crossings' may be so situated in reference
to cuts or curves'as to render them highly dangerous to
those using the public highways. They may be in or
near towns or cities, so that to approach them at a high
'rate of speed :would be attended with great danger to
life or limb. On the other hand, highway. crossings may:
be so numerous and so near together-that to require interstate trains to slacken speed indiscriminately at all such

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the 'Pourt.

217 U. S.

crossings would be practically destructive of the successful operation of such passenger trains. Statutes which
require the speed of such trains to be checked at all
crossings so situated might not only be a regulation, but
also a direct burden upon interstate commerce, and therefore beyond the power of the State to enact.
It is the settled law of this court that one who would
strike down a; state statute as violative of the Federal
Constitution must bring himself by proper averments
and showing within the class as to whom the act thus
attacked is -unconstitutional. He must show that the
alleged unconstitutional feature of the law injures him,
and so operates as to deprive him of rights protected by
the Federal Constitution. Tyler v. The Judges, 179 U. S.
405; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.51, 60; Hooker v. Burr,
194 U. S.415; Hach v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160.
. In the case at bar the Federal question was sought to
be. raised by an amendment to the answer. The answer
originally filed was general in its nature, and did not set
up the defense of violation of the Federal Constitution.
The amendment filed set up that the railroad company
was engaged in interstate commerce, and at the time of
the injury complained of was operating an interstate
train, and, after setting up the statute of the State of
Georgia for a violation of which the company was sued,
averred that it was inoperative as to the defendant's
train, because in violation of § 8, Article I, of the Federal
Constitution, giving Congress the power to regulate commerce, and iurther stated:
. "Your defendant further shows that the statute of
Georgia is not a reasonable regulation under the police
power of the State to secure the safety of passengers, but
that the statute is a direct burden on and impedes the
interstate traffic being done by this defendant, and impairs the usefulness of its facilities for such traffic.
"Defendant further shows that it is impossible to ob-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING,
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

serve said statute and carry the mails as defendant is
required to carry them under the contract it has with the
Government; and it is likewise impossible to do an interstate business,-. and at the same time comply with the
terms of. said statute.
"Wherefore it says that said statute is inoperative as
to it, and it should not be required to comply with the
same on
its interstate line of railroad..
"All ., which it stands ready to verify, and prays that
it be hence discharged with its reasonable cost."
On oral demurrer to this amendment to the answer the.
same was held insufficient and it was dismissed. Petitioner's counsel further sought to raise the.Federal question by an offer of proof at the trial by an engineer of the
company, as follows:
"I expect to prove that between the South Carolina
line and Atlanta there are practically one hundred road
crossings, or between eighty-five and one hundred public
road crossings; that the distance is one hundred and one
miles; that the crossings in some localities are very close
together, and within a few hundred yards of each other,
and at others farther apart, but on the average making
a crossing to the mile almost. We expect to show further,
that to observe the statute and check and keep checking
so as to have a train' under control, and to stop should
any person .or thing be on the crossing, would consume
from five to ten minutes for each crossing, dependent, of
course, upon the weight and length of the train and the
grade; but it would make an average of seven or eight
minutes. We wish to show that this train was made up
and known as No. 39; the vestibule train which runs from
the city of Washington, through the States of Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia; that it
was carrying passengers from one State to another, also
carrying an expiess car with freight on it, from one State
to another. We wish and expect to show that obedience

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to that crossing act would hinder, and practically prevent, interstate business being done by the defendant
railroad. We wish to show the conditions I have just
stated all existed at the time this accident occurred, 'on
the 11th of October, 1903."'
This testimony was excluded and an exception was
taken. It is apparent from this outline of the state of the
record that when this testimony was offered there was no
answer on file in the case under which it would be coinpetent. A demurrer had been sustained to the amendment
to the answer, and the case stood upon the complaint and
the general issue filed by the defendant. It is elementary
that the proof must conform to the allegations, and that
without proper allegations testimony cannot be admitted.
We are then remitted to the question, Did the court-err
in sustaining the demurrer to the amended answer? The
Circuit Court of Appeals held, and we think correctly,
that an inspection of that document shows that it did
not contain a proper averment of the facts, which would
show that the operation of the statute in controversy was
such as to unlawfully regulate interstate commerce, and,
therefore, deprive the railway company of its constitutional right to carry on such commerce unhampered by
such illegal restrictions. The amended answer contains
the general statement that the statute is in violation of
the commerce clause of the Constitution, and a direct
burden upon, and impedes interstate traffic and impairs
the usefulness of defendant's facilities for that purpose;
that it is impossible to observe the statute in carrying
mails and in interstate commerce business. But these
averments are mere conclusions. They set forth no facts
which would make the operation of the statute unconstitutional. They do not. show the number or location
of the crossings at which the railway company would be
required to check the speed of its trains so ea to interfere
with their successful operation. For aught that appears

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KING.
217 U. S.

HOLMES,

J.. dissenting.

as allegations of fact in this answer the crossing at which
this injury happened may have been so located and of such
dangerous character as to make the slackening of trains
at that point necessary to the safety of those using the
public highway, and a statute making such requirement
only a reasonable police regulation, and not an unlawful
attempt -to regulate or hinder interstate commerce. In
.the absence of facts setting up a situation showing the
unreasonable character of the statute as applied to the
defendant under the circumstances, we think the amended
answer set up no legal defense, and that the demurrer
thereto was properly sustained.
The learned counsel, for the plaintiff in error insists that
under the decisions in Georgia, in the absence of a special
demurrer requiring a more particular statement, the answer was sufficient. It is enough to say that. we. have
examined those decisions and think that they. do not indicate a departure from the general rule that a pleading
must state facts and not mere conclusions, and that the
want of definite allegations essential to a cause of action
or defense renders a pleading subject to demurrer.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and the same is affirmed in both cases.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

The petitioner set up as a defense to these actions that
the statute under which it was sued was such a burden on
commerce among the States as to violate §8, Art. I, of
the Constitution of the United States-a pure issue of
law. If in order to try this issue intelligently it was neeessary to take evidence of facts, I think the court was
bound to hear such evidence, even without any specific
allegation of the facts that would maintain it, as it is
the court's duty to know and to declare the law. But I

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
HOLMES, J.,

dissenting.

217 U.S.

leave that question on one side because the petitioners
did not stop with the naked proposition, but alleged
further that "it is impossible to observe said statute and
carry the mails as the defendant is required to carry them
under the contract it has with the Government; and it is
likewise impossible to do an interstate business, and at
the same time comply with the terms of said statute."
These are pure allegations of fact. They mean on their
face that the requirement that the engineer at every grade
crossing should have his train under such control as to be
able to stop if necessary to avoid running down a man
or wagon, crossing the track requires such delays as to,
prevent or seriously to interfere with commerce among
the States. They refer to physical conditions and to
physical facts; they can refer to nothing else. I think
it obvious that they mean that the crossings are so numerous as to make the requirement impracticable, since
I can think of nothing but the number of them that
would have that effect.
The statement may be called a conclusion, but it is a
conclusion of fact, just as the statement that a certain
liquid was beer is a conclusion of fact from certain impressions of taste, smell and sight. If the objection to the
pleading had been that more particulars were wanted,
although, for my part, I think it would have been unnecessarily detailed and prolix pleading to set forth what
and where the crossings were, the pleading should not
have been rejected, but the details should have been required. The petitioner showed that it was ready to give
them by its-offer of proof. But evidently the answer was
not held bad on that ground. Presumably at least, as
stated by the counsel for the petitioner, it was held bad
on the ground taken by the Supreme Court of that State,
that although the requirement was impracticable it was
the law. Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Hall, 109 Georgia,
367, 369. See 160 Fed. Rep. 332, 337; S. C., 87 C. C. A.

'FREEMAN v. UNITED STATES.

.539

Syllabus.

217 U. S.

284, 289. For it is to be observed further that the facts
involved were public facts, and that although the court
might not take notice of the precise situation of particular crossings it well might take notice, as the Supreme
Court of Georgia seems to have taken notice in the case
just mentioned, that they were numerous. See United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 638, and for many cases Wigmore, Ev., §§ 2575,
2580. 16 Cyc. 862.: 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
904. Again, if any merely technical objection had been
thought fatal to the defense, the petitioner undoubtedly
would have met it by a further amendment to its plea.
It seems to me a miscarriage of justice to sustain liability under a statute which possibly, and I think probably, is unconstitutional, until the facts. have been heard
which the petitioner alleged and offered to prove. I
think that the judgment should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that Mr. Justice WHITE concurs
in this dissent. -

FREEMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 156.

Submitted. April 11, 1910.-Decided May q1, 1910.

Provisions carried into the Philippine bill of rights,by the statute Qf

July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691,i such as "that no person shall be
imprisoned for debt," are to be interpreted and enforced according
to their well-known meaning at the time. Kepner v. United States,
.195 U. S. 100.
Statutes relieving from imprisonment for debt, as generally interpreted,

relate to commitment of debtors'for liability on contracts, and not
to enforcement of penal statutes providing for payment of money

