LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 217
217 U. H.

Syllabus.

act the state court lost its jurisdiction, and upon the filing of
the record in the Federal court that court acquired jurisdiction. It thereby had the authority to hear, determine and
render a judgment in that case to the exclusion of every other
court. But where the court permitted a dismissal of the action
by the plaintiff it thereby lost the jurisdiction which it had
thus acquired.
We know of no principle which would permit the Federal
court under such circumstances, and after the dismissal of the
suit, to continue its jurisdiction over the case in such wise that
no other court could ever entertain it. After the voluntary
dismissal in the Federal court the case was again at large, and
the plaintiff was at liberty to begin it again in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Georgia, and the same is aiTrmed.

Afrmd.

LOS ANGELES FARMING AND MILLING COMPANY
a.

CITY OF LOS ANGELES.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 137, Argued March 10, 11, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.
In this case both parties claim under Spanish or Mexican titles, confirmed by proceedings under the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat.
631. The Federal rights alleged by plaintiff in error to have been
violated by the decision of the state court, so far as concerns this
act, relate to the extent of the right and ownership of the parties in
the use of the Los Angeles River. Plaintiff in error contended that
by its grant it became the owner of riptrian rights without limitations by any right of the city of Los Angeles to use the water of the
river, and that the city by failing to present its claim for the use of
such water to the commission under the act of 1851 is foreclosed
from row asserting them. The state court held that the city of
Los Angeles had the exclusive right to the water of the Los Angeles

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

River from its source to the most southern part of the city. In
dismissing a writ of error to review the judgment of the state court

held that:
The act of 1851 was a confirmatory act and not one granting titles;
that by its terms it did not originate titles nor make the patents to
be issued in pursuance of decisions of the commission conclusive
except upon the United States.
The extent of riparian rights belonging to pueblos or persons receiving patents of the United States in pursuance of the decisions of
the commission under the act of March 3, 1851, are matters of local
or general law.
The decision of the state court in this case was put upon the effect of
the old Spanish or Mexican law as to the rights of the original
pueblo of Los Angeles succeeded to by the present city and such
rights were merely confirmed and not originated by proceedings
under acts of Congress; and therefore, as no rights existing under
an authority of the United States were denied, this court has no
jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Writ of error to review 152 California, 645, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the title of the city of Los Angeles
to the waters of the Los Angeles River and to the use thereof,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. M. Widney for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Mathews and Mr. John F. Dillon, with whom
Mr. Leslie R. Hewitt and Mr. John C. Thomson were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The city of Los Angeles brought suit in the Superior Court
of the county of Los Angeles against the Los Angeles Farming
and Milling Company, hereinafter called the Milling Company, to quiet the title of the city to the use of the waters of

the Los Angeles River. The city of Los Angeles is situated
on the Los Aogeles River, a non-navigable stream rising in
the San Fernando Valley and mountains adjacent, and flow-

•LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 219
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing from the north down to and through said city. The Milling Company is the owner of a large tract of land, about
10,000 acres, situated some ten miles up stream above said
city on the same river. In its complaint the city of Los
Angeles sets forth that it is the owner of the paramount right
to take and use all of the water of said river from its sources
to the southern boundary of the city, so far as it is necessary
to furnish a supply for the use of the city and its inhabitants;
that the plaintiff in error owns its lands subject to such
paramount right of the city to the use of the water, and
claims adversely to the city and its estate and interest in said
water right.
The defendant answered, and, among other things, set up
a denial of the alleged paramount rights of the city in the
waters of the Los Angeles River, and alleged that it and its
predecessors had been in the exclusive possession of said
lands for more than fifty years under claim of title, using the
waters of the river riparian or appurtenant to its estate; that
the value of the premises was over $500,000 -that its lands
were some ten miles above the city, on the river; that the
title to the lands and waters in controversy were first owned
by the crown of Spain, thence passing to -the Republic of
Mexico, which republic, on June 17, 1846, granted to the
predecessors of the Milling Company certain lands, which
included the lands in controversy; that by the treaty between
the Republic of Mexico and the United States the sovereign
rights and titles of said Republic of Mexico in said property
passed to and vested in the United States; that California,
upon its admission to the Union, was prohibited from pasing
any laws disposing of the public lands of the United States,
or fromdoing any acts whereby the title of the United States
in: the public lands within its limits should be impaired or
questioned; that the laws of the United States were extended
over California, :September 29, 1850; that the Congress of the
United -States passed an act, approved March 3, 1851, providing for the ascertainment and settlement of the land

OCTrOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

claims derived fron Spain or Mexico in tile State of California,
and created a board of land commissioners for that purpose;
that all lands, the claim to which was rejected, or had itot
been presented, to said board should be held and considered
as part of the public domain of the United States; that claims
of towns or cities should be presented under said act; that a
grant to cities or towns existing July 7, 1.46, should be presumed; that the decrees and patents issued by the tribunals
under said act should be conclusive between the United States
and the claimant; that the claims of the predecessors in interest of the Milling Company to its lands was duly presented
to the board of land commissioners, and confirmed on January 8, 1873, and the patent of the United States was issued
to them, and, it is alleged, that said patentee thereby became
vested with the rights in fee simple to said lands and all the
waters therein or riparian thereto. It is alleged that this
patent is res judicata of the rights of the Milling Company;
that under the act of March 3, 1851, the mayor and council
of the city of Los Angeles presented to the said board of land
commissioners a claim for sixteen square leagues of land,
known as the pueblo of Los Angeles, and for the water rights
of the said Los Angeles River, for the use of the pueblo; that
said claim was adjudged and affirmed to be valid to the extent
of four square leagues, and held invalid as to the remainder
thereof, and that a patent was issued by the United States to
the city of Los Angeles oi. August 9, 1866, for four square
leagues of land. The Milling Company sets up that this confirmation and patent in favor of the city is res judicata for
four square leagues, and claims that the city is barred from
setting up or claiming any title, ownership. or interest in or to
the premises in controversy herein; that the sources and
tributaries of the Los Angeles River are located on the public
lands of the United States; that the legislature of California
has passed certain acts, attempting to coifer and grant to
the city of Los Angeles paramount right to take and use all
the waters of the Los Angeles River, which acts, it is con-

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 221
917 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tended, are null and void under the act of Congress admitting
the State of California into the Union, and, under Article XIV of the Constitution, preventing private property
being taken for public use without just compensation therefor.
The answer also sets up the statute of limitations.
The case was submitted to the court of original jurisdiction
upon a stipulation of facts, which shows that the pueblo of
Los Angeles was established in 1781 under the government
of Spain, containing four square leagues of land, embracing
the lands afterwards patented to the city under the act of
Congress of March 3, 1851; that the ettlers-and inhabitants
of the pueblo used the water from the river by means -of
ditches for domestic and irrigation purposes until the time
of the acquisition of the State of California by the United
States, the amount of irrigable land being then about fifteen
hundred acres, and it. is stipulated:
"Under the laws of the Kingdom of Spain, said pueblo
upon 'its foundation, by virtue of a grant under such laws,
had the paramount right, claimed by the plaintiff in the
complaint herein, to use all the water of the river, and such
paramount right continued to exist -under that government
and under the Mexican government, until the acquisition nf
California by the United States."
it appears in the stipulation' of facts that the pueblo of Los
Angeles, in presenting its petition to the board of land commissioners, wherein it claimed the sixteen square leagues,
prv.sented as a part thereof a copy of an ordinance of the
King of Spain, wherein he provides for the establishment of
the town of Pitic in Sonora, and orders that the provisions
relative thereto should be followed in the foundation of any
new peublos in the jurisdiction of the commanding general
of the internal provinces of the west, of which California constituted a part, and attached to that petition was a copy of
the plan of the town of Pitic, which contained, among things
this provision:
"7th. The neighbors and natives shall likewise enjoy the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.

S

.

use of the woods, water and other benefits from the royal and
vacant lands lying outside of the tract assigned to the new
town jointly with the residents and natives of the immediate
and adjoining towns; which favor and right shall continue
until by his majesty the same shall be granted or alienated;
in which case regulations will be made according to the provisions for concessions in favor of new possessors or proprietors."
But there is nothing in the statement of facts affecting the
force of the stipulation that the pueblo of Los Angeles had
the paramount water right, as above stated 'and as claimed
in the complaint, until the acquisition of the State of California by the United States. It is further stipulated that no
grant nor claim of the real property described in the complaint was presented for confirmation under the act of March 3,
1851, except in so far as the same may have been embraced
in the claim, of the mayor and common council of the city of
Los Angeles presented and confirmed in the manner described, which resulted in the confirmation and .patent for
four square leagues of land and the rejection of the claim for
the remaining portion of the premises described and claimed
by the petitioners; that pursuant to that decree the United
States issued a patent for the four square leagues of land;
that the city of Los Angeles was incorporated on April 4,
1850, by act of the legislatre of California, with boundaries
including the four square leagues, and the act provided that
the city should succeed to all the rights, claims and powers
of the pueblo of Los Angeles in regard to property, and
should be subject to all the liabilities incurred and obligations
created by the ayuntamiento of said pueblo. The decision
of the commissioners was affirmed by the District Court of
the United States and a patent was issued on August 9, 1866,
in accordance therewith, for four square leagues. Afterwards, on Abgust 12, 1875, another patent was issued by the
United States for the four square leagues of land, in which
latter patent no mention was made of the fact that the land

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 223
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for which confirmation was asked contained sixteen square
leagues, or that the claim of the city was founded on the
Mexican grant to the petitioners made on August 25, 1844,
as was stated in the earlier patent. The patent of August 4,
1875, contained a certificate of the United States surveyor
general for California, that notice of the plat and survey had
been advertised in two newspapers, and that the plat was
a correct copy of the original and had been approved August 4,
1875, by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
As to the land claimed and owned by the Milling Company,
it is stipulated that it was contained in the Rancho Ex-Mission
de San Fernando, which embraced the lands of the Milling
Company, and was an imperfect or inchoate grant made by
the Mexican Government on" June 14, 1846, and the claim
thereto of the predecessors in interest to the Milling Company
was presented to and confirmed by the board ot land commissioners under the act of March 3, 1851, and the patent of the
United States was issued therefor on January 8, 1873; that
said patent includes 121,619 acres of land, through a part of
which the Los Angeles River and its tributaries flow; that
said rancho is riparian to said river, and that the patent states
that the United States of America granted the land therein
embraced, with the appurtenances, without making any
reservation or exception of any rights to said river, its tributaries or waters therein; that the value of the premises in
controversy is over $400,000; that neither the city nor any
of its predecessors have contested the grant, survey or proceedings in connection with the confirmation of the claim
of the predecessors in interest to the Milling Company to said
rancho; that said rancho is situated on said river, some ten
miles above the city of Los Angeles, and above any of the
points of diversion.rof water by said city; that after the acquisition of California by the United States, the pueblo of
*Los Angeles continued to exist and be managed by the pueblo
authorities, and the water of said river continued to be used
for domestic and irrigation purposes by its inhabitants until

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the incorporation of the city under the legislative act of
April 4, 1850, and thereafter the use of water from said river
for municipal, domestic and irrigation purposes continued
until about 1901, since which time all of said water has been
needed and used for domestic purposes in said city as enlarged from the patented area of 17,172 acres to 27,695 acres
in 1898; that the surface stream of the river continues for a
distance of several miles above the -city, to points where it
rises from beneath the surface of the ground, and, in seasons
of heavy rainfall, it extends up to the mouths of the various
canyons, from which surface streams, coming from public
lands of the United States, and which are the sources and
tributaries of the Los Angeles River, emerge and flow, until
the approach of summer, when they sink into the sand at or
near the mouths of such canyons; that all of the territory in
which the surface stream of the Los Angeles River constantly
flows, and all of the valleys through which the torrential
surface stream of the river flows, in winter and spring, up to
the mouths of said canyons, are embraced within-Spanish and
Mexican grants, confirmed and patented to parties, other
than the city, under the act of March 3, 1851; that the city
has sold to private parties all the lands embraced in its
patent from. the United States, including the lands riparien
to the river, excepting certain lots, on which are erected public
city buildings, also certain parks and the river bed, 200 fe(,t
more or less in width, inside the patent boundary; that th,
allegations of the complaint, 'describing the Los Angeles
River, and showing that the -nderground stream thereof
extends throughout the whole of the lands of-the Milling
Company, described in the complaint, are true.
Upon submission to the trial court a judgment was re:r
dered in favor of the city, ordering and adjudging that the
city was the owner in fee simple. of the paramount right to
take and use the water of the Los Angeles River from it.
source to the southern boundary of the city of Los Angeles
so far as may be reasonably necessary, from time to time, t(

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 225
217

U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

give an ample supply of water for the use of its inhabitants,
and for all the municipal purposes and uses of the city, and
the city was quieted in its title and right to the use of the
water as aforesaid.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of California the judgment of the lower court was affirmed (152 California, 645),
and the case is brought here by writ of error to that
court.
A case can only be brought to this court from a supreme
court of a State by writ of error under § 709 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in order to determine Federal
rights asserted under that section of the statutes which it is
claimed have been denied by the decision and judgment of
the supreme court of the State. It is therefore necessary to
know just what'is comprehended in the decision and judgment of that court. The Supreme Court of California, after
reciting the' proceedings and facts found in the court below,
dealt with the contention of the plaintiff in error As to the
proceedings under the act of March 3, 1851, which confirmed
the title to the lands described, and held that in confirming
the title to the lands and awarding patents therefor the
riparian rights of the proprietors and patentees were left to
be determined by the law of the country or State where the
land is gituated, anj denied "the contention of the Milling
Company that the city had only title to the four square
leagues of land awarded to it by the proceedings and patents
under the act of March 3, 1851, with no ownership in the use
of the water above the limits of the land granted, and denied
the further contention that by the proceedings and patent
to the Milling Company's predecessors they were adjudged
the riparian owners with the use of the waters of the river
running through the land as part and parcel of their estate.
The court having reached this conclu'sion as to the effect of
the act of March 3, 1851, held that the only question in the
case was as to whether under the Spanish and Mexican law
the old pueblo of Los Angeles and the city as its successor had,
VOL cCXvzI-l 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

as against the Milling Company, the prior and paramount
ownership of so much of the water of the Los Angeles River
as is necessary for its inhabitants, and for general municipal
purposes, and held that this question was answered in the
affirmative in the prior decisions of the California Supreme
Court. Lux v. Haggin, 69 Cali fomia, 265; Vernon. Company
v. Los Angeles, 106 California, 237; Los Angeles v. Pomeroy,
124 California, 597 (same case .in this court, sub. nom. -Los
Angeles v. Hooker, 188 U. S. 314).
These decisions the court held to be determinative of the
prior and paramount right of the pueblo and its successor
under rights existing under the Spanish and Mexican laws,
confirmed by the United States to the successors of the
pueblo. The court declined to consider for what municipal
purposes the water could be used as against a riparian owner,
and held that the extent of the city's prior and paramount
right was not involved in the case.
It is thus apparent that the Supreme Court of California
put the decision of the case upon the effect of the old Spanish
or Mexican law as to the rights of the pueblo succeeded to by
the city, and confirmed by proceedings under the acts of
Congress for the purpose of confirming such titles.
We come then to consider what Federal questions are
really presented in this record, and whether, in reaching the
decision which we have'stated the Supreme Court of California
directly, or necessarily, by reason of its decision, denied such
rights asserted under § 709 of the Revised Statutes. We may
at once put aside, as not presenting Federal questions of
serious import, the assignments of error to the effect that the
decision of the Supreme Court of California denied to the
plaintiff in error due process of law or the equal protection of
the. laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment like
of the
Conmanner
may treat in
stitution of the Unted States. We
the assignments involving the construction by the Supreme
Court of the state statutes, and rulings as to the admissibility
of evidence. Nor do we find any denial.of Federal right worthy

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v.. LOS ANGELES. 227
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of consideration in the assertion that the statutes 6f California
have undertaken to confer the water rights in controversy on
the city of Los Angeles, and were given such effect, in violat'ion of the Federal rights of the plaintiff in error. As we have
seen, the rights of the city were not determined by the effect
of those statutes, but upon the right and title secured by the
Spaish or Mexican law, and the subsequent confirmation
thereof under the statute of the United States.
As to the assignment of error that the effect of the judgment is to interfere with the disposition of the public lands by
the United States.
The act of March 3, 1851 (chap. 41, 9 Stat. 631, 634, § 14),
made provision for the presentation to the commission of the
former right of pueblos and the issue of patents to them upon
confirmation. And further, the same section provided that
the existence of a city, town or village on July.7, 1846, being
duly proved, should be prima fade evidence of a grant to
such corporation.
This court, speaking by'Mr. Justice Miller, tersely disposes
of the nature of such old Mexican titles in Adqm v. Norris,
103 U. S. 591, 593:
"But the United States in dealing with parties claiming
under Mexican grants, lands within the territory ceded by
the treaty of Mexico, never made pretense that it was the
owner of them. When, therefore, guided by the action of the
tribunals established to pass upon the validity *ofthese alleged
grants, the' Government issued a patent it was in the nature
of a quitclaim-an admission that the rightful ownership had
never been in the United States, but had passed at the tizie
of the cession to the claimant, or to those under whom he
claimed. This principle has been more thfan once clearly
announced in this court. The leading cases are Beard v.
Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Henshaw v. Bissel, 18 Wall. 255; Miller
v. Dale, 92 U. S. 473."
It is perhaps more accurate to say that the action of the
United States in such cases is a confirmation rather than a

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

quitclaim. Boquillaz Land & Caule Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S.
339, 344.
The assignments covering other Federal questions which
should be noticed embrace the contention that the rights of
the Milling Company were secured under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo between the United States and Spain, and under
the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, for the confirmation of
titles derived from the Spanish or Mexican governments.
The contentions as to the supposed rights derived under that
treaty and act have been before this court in a number of
cases, in which it has been uniformly held that rights alleged
to have arisen thereunder, in the manner claimed by the
present plaintiff in error, are not rights of Federal origin
which, when denied, lay the basis for the review and reversal
of the judgment of the state court.
In Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326, Mr. Justice Field,
delivering the opinion of the court, held that the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo does not purport to divest the pueblo,
existing at the site of the city of San Francisco, of any rights
of property or to alter the character of interests it may have
held in any lands under the former government; that the
treaty provided for the protection of the inhabitants in their
property, and that the same rights exist as to towns under
the Mexican Government, and dealing with both the treaty
and the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, Mr. Justice Field,
again speaking for the court in Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478,
491, etc., said:
"In the first place, the patent is a deed of the United States.
As a deed its operation is that-of a quitclaim, or rather a conveyance of such interest as the United States possessed in the
land, and it takes effect by relation at the time when proceedings were instituted by the filing of the petition before the
board of land commissioners.
"In the second place, the patent is a record of the action of
the government upon the title of the claimant as it existed
upun the acquisition of the country. Such acquisition did

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 229
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not affect the rights of the inhabitants to their property.
They retained all such rights, and were entitled by the law
of nations to protection in them to the same extent as under
the former government. The treaty of cession also stipulated
for such protection. The obligation, to which the United
States thus succeeded was, of course, political in its character,
and to be discharged in such manner, and on such terms, as
they might judge expedient. By the act of March 3, 1851,
they have declared the manner and the terms on which they
will discharge this obligation. They have there established a
special tribunal, before which'all claims to land are to be
investigated; required evidence to be presented respecting
the claims; appointed law officers to appear and contest them
on behalf of the government; authorized appeals from the
decisions of the tribunal, first to the District and then to the
Supreme Court; and designated officers to survey and measure
off the land when the validity of the claims is finally determined. When informed, by the action of its tribunal, and
officers, that a claim asserted is valid and entitled to recognition, the government acts, and issues its patent to the claimant. This instrument is, therefore, record evidence of the
action of the government upon the title of the claimant. By
it the government declares that the claim asserted was valid
under the laws of Mexico; that it was entitled to recognition
and protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might
have been located under the former government, and is correctly located now, so as to embrace the premises as they are
surveyed and described."
In the later case of Los Ageles v. Hooker, 188 U. S. 314,
practically the same contentions were made as in the case at
bar concerning the effect of the act of 1851 and the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo. In that case the lands of the plaintiff
in error were situated above the city of Los Angeles, and it
was sought to appropriate them to the use of the city for the
purpose of maintaining thereon the headworks of a system
of water supply. In that case, as here, the- city contended

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

.217 U. S.

that the rights of the plaintiffs in error were subject to the
].tpamount rightsof the city of Los Angeles to take water for
th use of its inhabitants, for all the public and municipal
:purposes of the city. Plaintiffs in error denied this contention
and set up their own rights as riparian owners of the lands,
the confirmation of their rights by, the board of land commissioners under the act of Congress of 1851, confirmed by
the District Court for the Southern District of California, and
patents duly issued in accordance therewith. The contention
of the plaintiff in error was that the state court decided against.
its rights as riparian owners, and as to the ownership of the
percolating waters described ;from patents of the United
States as well as from Mexican grants, and under the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Delivering the opinion of the court,
-Mr. Chief Justice Fuller said:
"Obviously, the question as to the title or right of plaintiffs
in error in the land, and whatever appertained thereto, was
one of state law and general public law, on which the decision
of the state court was final. San Francis v. Scott, 111 U. S.
768; Powder Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389. And the question
of the existence of percolating water was merely a question of
fact.
"The patents were in the nature of a quitclaim, and under
the act of March 3, 1851, were 'conclusive between the United
States and the said claimants only, and shall not affect the interest of third persons.' The validity of that act was nor
drawn in question in the state court, and as the right or tithf,
asserted by plaintiffs in error was derived under Mexican and
Spanish grants, the decision of the state court on the claims
asserted by plaintiffs, in error to the waters of the river was
not against any title or right claimed under the Constitution,
or any treaty, or statute of, or commission held, or authority
exercised under, the Constitution. If the title of plaintiffs in,
error were protected by the treaty, still the suit did not arise
thereunder, because the controversy in the state court did not
involve the constfuction of the treaty, but the validity of the

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 231
217 U. I.

Opinion of the Court.

title of Mexican and Spanish grants prior to the treaty. New
Orleans v. De Armas, 9 Pet. 224; Iowa v. Rood, 187 U. S. 87;
Phillipsv. Mound City Association, 124 U. S 605."
In Pour Works V. Davis, 151 U. S.:389, referred to by the
Chief Justice in Los Angeles.v. Hooker, it was held, referring to
the previouscase of Phillips v. Mound City Assn., 124 U. S.
605, that the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo protected all existing property rights, but neither created nor defined the rights,
and that-a confirmation of such rights by a decree of the court
did not determine rights. which depended upon the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States:
Similar questions came before this court in Devine v. Los
Angeles, 202 U. S. 313. , In that case 244 complainants, owners
of lands situated in the couinty of Los Angeles and in the Ranchos San Rafel, Los Felis and Providencia, and whose title was
alleged to have. been confirmed pursuant' to the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo by the board of land commissioners
created under the act of Congress of 1851, and to whom patents
had been issued by the United States, brought suit against the
city of Los Angeles to quiet their title as against the claims of
the city of Los Angeles to the paramount use of the water of
the Los Angeles River. The bill is-abstracted atlength in the
report of that case and it was alleged there, as here, that the
rights asserted by the city and acts of the legislature and
charters ofthe city were in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, and that the city of Los Angeles
should have presented its claims to the waters of the riveito
the board of land commissioners under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1851, and that a decree should be granted declaring
the acts of the legislature of California and the charters of the
city of Los Angeles invalid in respect to conferring upon the
city any rights in the waters of the Los Angeles River other
than those which were ascertained and confirmed under the
act of March 3, 1851.
An answer was filed by the city, fully setting up its rights
and contentions, as the successor of the pueblo to the owner-

OCTOBER TERIM 1909.
Opinion Of

the Court,

217 U. 8.

ship of the waters in the river and its tributaries, and admitting that it rested its claim to the Los Angelep River and
the waters thereof, including the waters in the lands of the
cothplainants, upon the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which
protected the rights of pueblos as well as the rights of individuals, and in part upon the act of Congress of March 3, 1851,
confirming the claims of pueblos and municipal corporations
to lands granted by Spain and Mexico, and that the confirmation thereof had the effect of confirming the water rights contended for by the city; that said act did not require claims for
property otherwise than for land to be presented for confirmation. The answer sets out a detailed history of the pueblo and
city. of Los Angeles, and certain prior adjudications which
were claimed to conclude the plaintiff in the suit.
After the pleadings were filed the. city of Los Angeles moved
the court to. dismiss the case on the ground that ftere was no
Federal iurisdiction thereof; the motion wa2 sustained, and
the case brought to this court upon a certificate. This court
held that there was no jurisdiction of the case in the Federal
court, quoting in the opinion from the previous cases to the
effect that the rights of, the complainant depended upon the
Spanish and Mexican grants confirmed by the board of land
commissioners, (Los Angeles v. Hooker, 188 U. S. supra), and
again held that the extent of the ripawian. rights c, the plaintiffs alleged to be derived from the patents of the United Stater

and confirmed Mexican grants, did not preset a right, title.
privilege or immunity arising under statutes (r treaties of the
United States. The court also cited Chrystal Springs Land &
Water.Co. v. Los Angeles, 177 U. S. 169, in -,'id. this court
affirmed the ruling of the Circuit Court of the Utdted States
for the Southern District of Californis,,, holding thot a controversy between parties claiming under Mexican grants, alleged to be confirmed and patented by the United States in accordance with the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, was only a
controversy'as to what rights were thus granted and confirmed, and could not lay the bask for a suit as one arising un-

LOS ANGELES MILLING CO. v. LOS ANGELES. 233
217 U. S.

-Opinion of the oourt.

der the laws and treaties of the United States, and the decree
of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction
was affirmed.
It is insisted that the Supreme Court of California, in holding
that the term "land," as embraced in the act of March 3, 1851,
did not include the riparian rights of the patentee of the land
nor conclude the city from making claim of ownership of the
water rights in controversy, and leaving to local law the determination of what riparian rights are embraced in the word
"land," denied to the plaintiff in error the rights which had accrued to it because of the proceedings under the act of 1851
and the benefits of the limitations upon the rights conferred
upon the city of Los Angeles by reason of the proceedings and
determination of the commissioners. But as these alleged
rights and limitations arise under the act of March 3, 1851,
which this court has repeatedly held did not originate Federal
rights or titles, but merely confirmed the old ones, we cannot
review the judgment of the state court in this respect. In its
opinion in the case at bar the Supreme Court of California said
that in this respect it was following Hardin v. Jordan, 140
U. S. 371, and this court has frequently held that the extent of
the right and title of a riparian owner under a patent isone of
local law. See recent decision'of Whitaker v. McBride, 197
U S.510, and cases therein cited.
And whatever the rule may be as to patents conveying title
to the lands of the United States, it has been distinctly held
in this court that neither the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo nor
patents under the-act of March 3, 1851, are original sources of
private titles, but are merely confirmatory of rights already
accrued under a former sovereignty.'
Both parties claim under Spanish or Mexican titles, confirmed by proceedings under the act of March 3, 1851. The
Federal rights alleged by the plaintiff in error to have been
violated by the decision and judgment of the Supreme Court
of California, so far as concerns this act, relate to the extent
of the -right and ownership in the use of the *#aters of the Los

O(TOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

Angeles River by the one or the other of the parties to this suit.
The plaintiff in error, as we have seen, contends that by its
grant it became the owner of riparian rights in such waters
without limitation by any supposed right in the city of Los
Angeles to use the water of the river, and that the city of Los
Angeles, by failing to present the claim it now makes for the
use of the waters of the river to the commissioners undcr the
act of 1851, and by the effect of the judgment of the commissioners upon the petition presented by the city is forever adjudicated to have no such water rights in the river as the city
now contends for and as were awarded to it by the decision and
judgment of the Supreme Court of California.
The defect of these contentions from the standpoint of
Federal jurisdiction is that this court has already determined,
in the cases above cited, that the act of 1851 was a confirmatory act; that by its terms it did not undertake to originate
titles or make the patents to be issued in pursuance of the decisions of the commission conclursive except upon the United
States; and that the extent of the riparian rights belonging to
pueblos or persons receiving such patents are matters of local
or general law.
IAthis view the writ of error must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 449.

Argued February 28, March 1, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

The words "out of the jurisdiction of any particular State" as used in
1 5339, Rev. Stat., refer to the States of the Union and not to any

separate particular community; and one committing the crimes
referred to in that section in the harbor of Honolulu in the Territory

of Hawaii is within the jurisdiction of the District Court. of the

