WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U.S.

Syllabus.

ing the north bank of the Potomac River as her boundary.
Counsel for the respective States are given forty days from
the entry hereof to agree upon three commissioners and to
present to the court for its Approval a decree drawn according
to the directions herein given, in default of which agreement
and decree this court will appoint commissioners, and itself
draw th6 decree in conformity herewith. Costs to be equally
divided between the States.'

1q

.,'7.

Decree accordingly.

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 63. Submitted December 10, 1909.-Decided March 14, 1910.
Findings of the lower court will not, where another construction is
possible, be so construed as to cause them to be silent on an issue
so controlling that-the cause could not have been decided on the
merits without a finding thereon.
Where findings are so irresponsive to the case made by the pleadings
and the facts as to be no findings at all this court must affirm on
account of absence of any findings to review. Gray v. Smith, 108
U. S. 12.
A finding that the evidence does not entitle the plaintiff to a decree
that the conveyance attacked was made to hinder and delay creditors
construed in this case to mean that there had been a failure of proof
and that the judgment did not rcst on a conclusion of law that the
local law did not afford a remedy if the plaintiff had proved his case.

Under the law of Porto Rico contracts made by an insolvent debtor
which are not fraudulent simulations are not susceptible of rescission merely because they operate to prefer a creditor.
While the privilege of communication may not extend to the concealment of crime, where an attorney testifies that the vendor disclosed
1 For proceedings on settlement of decree and final decree, see
p..000, P684..

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to him a plan to make fraudulent conveyances to hinder and delay
creditors, but the court finds that the conveyances as made were

not under the local law illegal, the testimony is properly excluded,
as there is no sufficient foundation to relieve the witness from the
professional obligation of 5ccrecy.
The statements made by the widow of 'the vendor whose conveyances
were attacked to the effect that such conveyances were fraudulent
were properly exchided in this case by the lower.court.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick L. Cornull and Mr. N. B. K. PettengiU for
appellant.
No brief was filed for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal is taken to secure the reversal of a decree of
the court below dismissing the bill of complaint. The court
sustained its action by an elaborate opinion, and subsequently
stated, in a formal way, its findings of fact and conclusions
of law.
The evidence is not in the record, although a portion of the
testimony is contained in the formal findings of fact, upon the
theory that this was-necessary to preserve the right to review
the action of the court concerning objection urged by the
defendants to the admission of certain testimony tendered
on behalf of the c )mplainants. The record, we are constrained
to say, is unsatisfactory and confused, a condition which we
ass'ime has resulted from circumstances referred to by the
court below in the opening passage of its opinion, as follows
(3 Porto Rico, 125, 126):
"This is a creditors' bill filed June 23, 1902, and permitted
to remain on the docket of this court during the five years
that have since intervened, without any apparent proper or
sufficient cause for the unwarranted delay and with infinite
inconvenience to many parties connected with the subject-

WILL v. TOR.NABELLS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

matter of the controversy. The first two years and a half of
the time seem to have been'taken up with- a battle over the
proceedings, tryir.g to get the answers of the several respondents settled, and during which time complainants' exceptions
to several of the answers were referred to a master, arguments
had before him, his report filed, exceptions to the same presented, .arguments had on the latter and briefs submitted in
support thereof, and so on, in an interminable and fruitless
contest of .)ctitions, motions, exceptions, pleas, demurrers,
orders, affidavits and rules to show cause, without result or
real merit as we see it. The next year and a half seem to have
been taken up somewhat in the same 'way, and also partly in
an application for a receivership and in opposing efforts to
the same, and in efforts to prevent outside parties from foreclosing several mortgages they had on some of the premises
involved, that they had secured in the meantime, in enjoining
them from so proceeding and in issuing rules as for contempts
against them for their actions in that behalf, etc."
In order to in some measure dispel the obscurity which must
arise
from the circumstances just referred to we briefly
state,
in 'their chronological order, certain unquestioned facts which
gave rise to the controversy, and also outline the pleadings
and proceedings, the whole for the pturpose of enabling us to
adequately test the sufficiency of tht errors assigned.
For many years the firm of J. Tornabells & Co., composed
of Joaquin Tornabeils. and Carlos Doitteau, was established
in Porto Rico and there carried on a mercantile business.
The firm was the owner -of various trading establishments and
warehouses, and was, besides, the owner of considerable real
estate, embraced in which were extensive coffee plantations
which the firm carried on, including the building., machinery
and appurtenances incipient thereto. It is not disputed that,
presumably its the result of losses occasionec by a disastrous
hurricane which devastated the island of Porto Rico the firm,
prior to 1900, had become temporarily embarrassed, andi
under.provi.;ions f the local law, had obtained in a local court
VOL. CCXvI- .....

OCTOBER .TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

'

217 U. S.

an extension of time for the payment of its debts. While
we state the fact as to the suspension we shall nevertheless
indulge in the assumption that such fact has no matetial bearing upon the questions here to be decided. We do this because no rights based upon such fact were asserted in thebill
of complaint or passed upon by the court, and no right of
such a character is asserted in the assignments of error or
referred to in the elaborate argument filed on behalf of the
appellants, the appellees not having appeared in this court
either orally or by brief.
On Mav 9, 1900, Tornabells & Co., by deed before a notary
public, conveyed to Luis Aran y Lanci the following property,
as stated by the court below: "Its place of business and other
town property, its stock of merchandise and twenty-six
several pieces of real estate, most of them being coffee plantations and their appurtenances." The stated price was 197,700
pesos, provincial money, 30,000 declared to have been paid
in cash, and the remainder to be paid in ten installments of
16,700 pesos, bearing no interest, maturing respectively from
one to ten years. A few days thereafter, on May 11, 1900,
Aran y Lanci mortgaged for 150,000 pesos nineteen of the
twenty-six pieces of real estate thus conveyed to him. This
mortgage was in favor of one Baudelio Duran y Cat and a
firm styled Duran & Coll. The mortgage in favor of the first
was for 130,000 pesos, divided into ten annual installments
of 13,000 pesos each, evidenced by notes to the order of the
mortgagee, maturing in each of the ten years, the whole being
secured on fourteen of the twenty-six pieces of real estate.
The mortgage in favor of Duran & Coll was on five of the
pieces of real estate acquired as aforesaid, and secured twenty
thousand pesos, divided into five installments of four thousand
pesos each, maturing in each of five years. These mortgages
were not indivisible, as the amount of each was apportioned
among the varous pieces of real estate, so that each piece
was liable only for the sum secured on it. .The sale to Aran y
Lanci was recorded on May 21, and the mnortgages just stated

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on May 24, 1900. On June 25, 1900, the mortgage for 20,000
pesos, which had been executed in its favor by Aran y Lanci,
was assigned by the. firm of Duran & Col to Raimundo
Valdecillo to secure an indebtedness due him by the firm of
6,000 pesos proincial money, and this assignment was duly
registered on July 5, 1900. Sixteen months after the conveyance to Aran y Lanci-that is, on September 16, 1901-the
firm of Tornabells & Co. acknowledged by notarial act that
Aran y Lanci had by. anticipation fully paid the deferred
purchase price (167,700 pesos). Nine months after such
acknowledgment Aran y. Lanci mortgaged in favor of the
Banco de Solleir to secure 32,780 pesetas, Spanish money.,
one 6f the pieces of property previously mortgaged to Duran
y Cat. On July 5, 1902, this mortgage was put upon record.
A few days-after it was so' pul upon record, viz., on June 23,
1902, the suit before us was commenced.
The bill-which was not 'sworn td--was originally filed on
behalf of three commercial firms, Will & Co. of Cuba, David
Midgley & Sons of Manchester, England, and Ramon Cortado
& Co. of Ponce, Porto Rico, and the members of said firms, in
their own behalf and in behalf of all others similarly situated
who might intervene in the cause. It was alleged that the
complainants were creditors of the firm of Tornabells & Co.
at the time of the conveyance to Aran y Lanci and. the execution of the mortgages by Aran y Lanci above recited, and that
subsequent to said transactions the claims of the complainants
had been merged into judgments against the firm, obtained
in the court where the bill was filed, and that on such judgments executions had issued and been returned unsatisfied.
It 'Was further alleged that the conveyance made by Torna ells
& Co. to Aran'y Lanci, and the mortgages put by the latter
upon the property ii favor of Duran y Cat, and the firm of
Duran & Coll, were fraudulent simulations, and that the
property covered by the conveyance and the mortgages cofntinued to belong to the firm; and was held by Aran .y Lanci
under a ecret trust in favot. of Tornabells & Co., the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

veyance and mortgages being mere fictitious devices adopted
between the parties for the purpose of screening the property
from creditors or hindering and delaying them in the recovery
of their claims. It was further charged that at the time of
the transactions referred to Tornabells & Co. was insolvent,
that the alleged price mentioned in the conveyance to Aran
y Lanci was largely below the real value of the property, and
that, despite the alleged conveyance and mortgages, the firm
of Tomabells & Co. continued to control the property conveyed and enjoy the fruits thereof. The prayer of the bill in
substance was that a receiver of the property might be appointed, that the conveyance and subsequent mortgages and
transfers should be declared to be fraudulent and void and
be vacated and annulled, and that the property and each and
every parcel thereof should be decreed to be subject to the
lien of the several judgments. Tornabells and Doitteau, the
members of that firm, Aran y Lanci, Duran y Cat, and Duran
& Coll, and the members of that firm, were made defendants
to the bill. Valdecillo, to whom the mortgage executed by
Aran y Lanci in .favor of Duran & Coil had been assigned,
was also joined as defendant, he being called upon to establish
the verity of his alleged lien. Alfredo Saliva, who was alleged
to. be. the attorney in fact of and to have acted for Aran y
Lanci in the transactions set out in the bill, was also made a
defendant.
Separate sworn answerswdre filed on behalf of the members
of the firm of Tornabells & Co., traversing the allegations of
insolvency and of simulation and fraud, both as respected the
conveyance to Aran y Lanci axid the mortgages executed by
the latter. The answers co. t:.iLed affirinative allegations as
to the good faith of the ccv(,ygace to Aran y Lanci, the
adequacy of the consideraticn c. d full payment thereof prior
to the commencement .f su t. The tal.F possession by and
mraagemen t of the property conthe exclusive control . ,;'i
io
r3 xf by Aran y Lanci for
veyed, and receipt of .
.'.e.
wau slac, averred. An answer
his exclusive use aen

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

substantially of like tenor, also sworn to was filed on behalf

of Aran y Lanci. Juan Coll, a partner in the firm of Duran
& Coll, also answered, and averred the bona fides of the mortgage executed by Aran y Lanci to his firm and the transfer
thereof made to Valdecillo.
On October 31, 1904, the firm of L. W. & P. Armstrong of
New York City,,. unsecured creditors of Tornabells & Co.,
were made parties complainant to the bill. Thereafter, Ruffer
& Sons, a firm doing business in London, England, and the
Caja de Ahorros de Mayaguez, a Porto Rican corporation, as
creditors of Tornabells & Co., were also allowed to intervene
and become parties complainant.
Early in 1905 Tornabells died and the cause was revived
as to him against his widow and children as his heirs. In
November of the same year Aran y Lanci died, and the cause
was revived against his widow, as administratrix of his estate.
Doitteau, the surviving partner of Tornabells &.Co., died on
January 22, 1907, and the cause was revived against his
widow and children.
Duran y Cat, an original defendant to the bill-in whose
favor, as we have stated, Aran y Laned had mortgaged fourteen of the pieces of real estate for 130,000 pesos--was not
served with process and did not enter his appearance. He
also died during the pendency of the cause. On February 12,
1907, upon motion of the complainants, an order was entered
dismissing the cause as to the heirs of said Duran y Cat,
".on the ground that said heirs, being out of the jurisdiction
and having entirely disposed of their interest in the cause,
are not indispensable parties thereto."
Journal entries are contained in the record, showing that
more than a dozen firms or individuals became additional
defendants in the cause. The time when they came in and
the nature of the pleadings by them filed or the proceedings
had concerning their rights do not distinctly appear. It is,
however, fairly inferable that these new defendants came in
long after the commencement of the suit, either during or

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1909..
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

subsequent to the dilatory and confused proeeedings referred
to by the court in the excerpt heretofore made from its opinion, and that such defendants asserted rights claimed to have
been acquired, after the filing of the bill, in the property affected by the suit, either as purchasers or as holders of mortgage notes. In this connection it is to be observed that neither
when the suit was commenced nor at any time during its progress was the court requested by the complainants to award a
cautionary notice, to be placed upon. the public records, as a
means of warning to parties who might deal with the property in controversy, thus preserving against them, pendente
lite, the rights which might be ultimately established as existing in the complainants, and which would not have been preserved by the mere pendency of the suit, unaccompanied with
the allowance and registry of the statutory cautionary notice.
Answers or amended answers were filed on behalf of the
widow and administratrix of Tornabells, and by the guardian
ad litem who was appointed for his minor 'children. An answer was also filed on behalf of the widow and administratrix
and minor children of Doitteau. This also was the case as to
the widow and administratrix of Aran y Lanci. These various apswers were substantially in accord with those which
hiad been previously filed on behalf of the original defendants,
except that in one of them the prescription of one year was
pleaded. It is inferable from the record that at this stage of
the proceedings, or at all events at a time not earlier than four
years after the commencement of the suit, certain persons
who had acquired rights in or to the property, either directly
from Aran y Lanci or through the mortgage executed in favor of Duran y Cat and Duran & CoIl, sought to enforce their
claims ahd were enjoined from so doing. At about the same
time a receiver was appointed. The record is silent, however, as to whether the receivership was intended to apply to
all the property in controversy or whether the receiver attempted to take possession under his appointment, although
it would seem that to some extent he did so, since by the

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

final decree the receiver was ordered to settle his accounts,
etc.
It came at last to pass in the spring of 1907 that the cause
was heard and taken under advisement. It was disposed of
in the summer of that year by the entry of a final decree dismissing the bill, and was followed nearly six months thereafter, on December 19, 1907. by the making of formal findings
of. fact and conclusions of law applicable thereto.
The fact ound are embraced in fourteen numbered paragraphs. The tirst merely states in general terms the filing of
the bill, makes allusion to the complicated proceedings which
followed, the dismissal as to some of the defendants (presumably the heirs of Duran y Cat), the coming in of other
paries, the ultimate joinder of issue and the submission of
the cause. In the second is stated the fact that evidence was
heard on behalf of the complainants and the submission of a
motion for a decree dismissing the bill on two grounds, viz.,
the failure to prove the allegations of the bill and the prescription of one year. The third finding is as follows:
"3. The documentary evidence introduced on behalf of
complainants and the testimony of all the witnesses do not
prove the allegations of the bill so as to entitle the complainants to a decree in their favor declaring the conveyance from
defendants Tornabells & Co. to defendant Aran, and the mortgage from defendant Aran to defendants Duran y Coll and
Duran personally to be voluntary or made to hinder and delay the complainants in the collection of their debts."
The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth paragraphs, in a summary way, find substantially, as we have
stated them, the facts concerning the conveyance by Tornabells & Co. to Aran y Lanci, the execution of the mortgages
in favor of Duran y Cat and Duran & Coil, and the divisibility of those mortgages, as well as the fact that the claims
upon which the complainants sued, although in existence,
were not reduced to judg, !nt until some time after the execution of the conveyance and mortgages in question. In

OCTOBER TERM. 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

one of the paragraphs it is stated that the property conveyed by Tornabells & Co. was substantially all that was
owned by the firm at the time of the conveyance, and that
Duran y Cat was a relative of the senior member of Tornabells
& Co. By the tenth paragraph it is found that the mortgage
asserted by the Banco de Sollier was one which Aran y Lani
had executed in favor of that bank on one of the properties
acquired by him from Tornabells & Co., and was given to secure a debt due by that firm to the bank, that Aran y Lanci
incurred no personal responsibility, and that he produced, as
paid, the mortgage note identified with the act of mortgage
executed in favdr of Duran y Cat, which had been released or
extinguished so far as the particular property was concerned.
The eleventh paragraph stated that the mortgage asered by
the firm of Fritze, Lundt & Co., on.one of the pieces of property conveyed to Aran y Lanci, was executed by the latter
in favor of Fritze, Lundt &.Co. to secure the payment of a
current account for supplies furnished for the cultivation of
properties included in the conveyance from Tornabells & Co.
to Aran y Lanci, and that previous to the giving of the mortgage the advances made by the firm were secured by a pledge
of one of the'mortgage notes executed by Aran y Lanci in favor of Duran y Cat, which, when Aran y Lanci mortgaged the
property in favor of the firm of Fritze, Lundt & Co., was produced by him as the owner thereof and cancelled. In this
case, also, no personal responsibility was assumed by Aran y
Lanci. The twelfth and thirteenth paragraphs state sales by
Aran y Lanci, in 1903 and 1905, to named persons, of pieces
of the property acquired by him from .Tornabells & Co., and
the production, by Aran y Lanci, as extinguished and paid,
of the mortgage notes resting upon the property so conveyed,
identified with the mortgage in favor of Duran y Cat. The
fourteenth paragraph simply embraced a general statement
of the release of the Duran y Cat mortgage on.the properties
referred to in the tenth to the thirteenth paragraphs, inclusive, and that the mortgages and conveyances referred to in

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such paragraphs "were, in each and every case, duly recorded
in the Registry of Property prior to any record in the Registry of Property of the judgments obtained by complainants
herein against Tornabells & Co., referred to in paragraph
nine."
From the facts thqs found the court drew the following
conclusions of law:
"1. That the proof on behalf of complainants is not sufficient to entitle them to any relief under their bill of complaint.
'2. That there is not now, and never was, any such statute in Porto Rico as the statute of 13th Elizabeth in England,
referring to fraudulent conveyances, because we have the
civil law rule here instead of the common law. Every State
in the Union has a reenactment of the statute of Elizabeth
in some form or other among its laws. In the absence of it
there is no rule of' law preventing a debtor, even when insolvent, for even that does not take from him the power of
disposition of his property, and paying his debts with it, or
a portion of his debts, and preferring one or more of his creditors with absolute intent to hinder, delay or even to defeat
other creditors. If the favored creditor receives no more than
is due him, and permits the debtor to secure no advantage to
himself, the transaction will be upheld.
"3. That the statute of limitations of one year, as fixed by
article 37 Pf the mortgage law, is applicable to suits like the
one at bar.
"4. That complainants, under the pleadings and proofs
herein, are not entitled to subject the properties described
in the bill of complaint herein to any lien, interest or decree,
by which the complainants would be entitled to have the conveyance and mortgages described in said bill of complaint cancelled and annulled for the benefit of the said complainants.
"5. That the bill of complaint should be dismissed."
These conclusions were followed by the reproduction of
portions of the testimony to, rescrve the right to review cer-

OCTOBVR TERM, 109.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

tain rulings of the court respecting testimony offered on behalf of the complainants.
The assignments of error are seven in number. The seventh
we at once put out of view, as it only charges generally that
the court erred in dismissing the bill of complaint.
The sixth, fifth and fourth assignments concern rulings as
to the admissibility of testimony, and the third complains of
the action of the court maintaining the plea of prescription
of one year. As these assignments cannot be disposed of
without in some respect appreciating the merits, we temporarily forego considering them.
The remaining assignments, that is, the first and second,
are as follows:
,"First, the court erred in finding as matter of law that in
Porto Rico there was no rule of law preventing a debtor, even
though insolvent, from preferring one creditor over others
with absolute intent to hinder, delay or even defeat the just
claims of said others.
"Second, the court erred in finding as matter of law, from
the facts found, that the above rule of law was applicable and
in not finding as matter of law that the applicable rule was
that a debtor could not transfet his property without any consideration for the purpose of delaying or defeating the just
claims of his creditors."
It is apparent that these propositions assert that a twofold
error was committed, first, in n6t applying to the facts as
found the legal principle rightfully applicable; and, second,
by erroneously stating the law in the irrelevant proposition
which was mistakenly applied in deciding -the cause, The
first contention rests upon the theory that the facts found
established that the conveyance and mortgages which the
bill assailed were mere fraudulent simulations, and upon 'this
assumption insists that the case should have beep controlled
by the law applicable to that state of fact instead of being
governed, as it was, by considering how far, as a matter of
law, a debtor, being insolvent, had .a right, through a real and

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

bona fi transaction,. to prefer one or mot-e of his creditors.
But when the findings of facts are considered it is manifest
that the premise upon which the proposition rests is a false
one, since it cannot be indulged in without disregarding the
findings. We say this is manifest, because the third finding
of fact, which we have already quoted, expressly declares that
the documentary evidence introduced on behalf of the complainants and the testimony of all the witnesses did not establish that the conveyance from Tornabells & Co. to Aran y Lanci
and the mortgage made by him to the firm of Duran & Coll
and to Duran y Cat individually were ".voluntarily made to
hinder and delay the complainants in the collection of their
debts." The error which would have resulted from applying
the doctrine applicable to a mere simulated transfer to a case
where the findings established that simulation was not shown
is self-evident. This result, which necessarily arises from a
consideration of the mere text of the third finding, is also
demonstrated, if that finding be contemplated in the light of
the issues which the cause presented in connection with the
other findings and all the conclusions of law which were deduced therefrom and applied in deciding the cause. The essential charge which the complaint made was the fraudulent
and simulated character of the conveyance and mortgages
which were assailed. That issue was, therefore, the controlling question to be decided. Considering the findings, as
we have previously fully stated them, it is, we think, clear
that the third finding was intended by the court as a statement of its conclusion of fazt as to that controlling issue,
and that the first conclusion of law which the court stkted,
that is, the insufficiency of the proof to justify recovery by
the complainants, was intended as the legal resultant of the
finding which had established that there had .been a failure
to prove the charge of simulation.
We think it is also clear that the second proposition of law
which the court announced, that is, the right of a debtor
under the Porto Rican law, although insolvent, to give a

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 IL S.

preference, in no way detracted from or modified the previous
finding and conclusion as to the absence of proof of simulation
or purpose to hinder and delay creditors in the conveyance
from Tornabells & Co. to Aran y Lanci and the Duran y Cat
and the Duran & Coil mortgage, but was solely intended as
responsive to the findings in other respects. That is to say,
we think the second finding of law was responsive to the facts
found in the paragraphs other than number three, which
tended to establish that, even although the sale from Tornabells & Co. to Aran y Lanci was not simulated and not in.
tended to hinder and delay creditors, nevertheless Aran y
Lanci had discharged a portion of the credit price which he
had agreed to pay by making payments to third persons,
creditors of the firm of Tornabells & Co., in extinguishment
of the indebtedness of the firm to such creditors, and thus to
the extent of such pAyments preferring the creditors. paid out
of the price due to Tornabells & Co. as the result of the sale.
Indeed, unless the appreciation which we have just made
ofthe findings and the conclusions of law deduced therefrom
be correct, it would cause the findings of fact to be absolutely
silent on the issue of simulation, although that issue was the
controlling one in the cause, an issue indeed so essential that
it is impossible to conceive that the cause could have been
disposed of on its merits without a finding on the subject.
But if the findings could be thus envisaged the inquiry would
be at once suggested whether they were not so manifestly
irresponsive to the case as made by the pleadings and to the
facts necessarily involved in the decision rendered as to
cause them to.be no findings at all, and therefore to require
at our hands an affirmance of the judgment because of the
substantial absence of any finding to enable us to review.
Gray v. Smith, 108 U. S. 12. Concerning this suggestion,
however, we express no opinion, since we do not consider
that the findings are of the unsubstantial and irrelevant
character which would result from attributing to them the
construction contended for by the appellants.

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217

U. S.

Opinioa of the Court.

Our conclusion that the findings of fact exclude the contention concerning the simulated character of the assailed
contracts renders it unnecessary to review the authorities
cited in argument to*establish the proposition, which is not
challenged, that under the law of Porto Rico creditors possess
the right to set aside mere fraudulent and simulated contracts
or conveyances made by their debtor to or in favor of an
interposed person, in order to place the! property of the debtor
apparently in the name or under the control of such person
for the purpose of defeating creditors.
The substantial foundation upon which the cause was.based,
that is, the issue as to the simulation of the conveyance to
Aran y Lanci and the mortgage to Duran y Cat and the firm
of Duran & Coil being disposed of, the remaining contenare free from difficulty. We say this because, although
tions
it is elaborately
insisted that putting the question of simulation out of view, the court was wrong in its second legal
conclusion, to the effect that the law of Porto Rico did not
avoid a real and. otherwise valid contract merely because its
result was to prefer one or more creditors of the debtor making the contract, we think such contention is shown by the
record to be an afterthought, or if not is unsupported by the
provisions of law which are cited to maintain it. An afterthought because the entire theory of the bill was opposed
to the conception that the assailed transactions merely embodied preferences giving rise to a revocatory action that is
merely to have an otherwise valid contract revoked. Indeed,
it is difficult to imagine that the action in any aspect was
considered as but revocatory in character when it is. borne
in mind that although the mortgage in favor of Duran. y Cat'
covered fifteen pieces of real estate securing 130,000 pesos,
he was not served with process, and after his death, on motion
of the complainants,, the cause was dismissed as to his heirs,
upon the theory that they had no interest in the result. We
say that the contention as to preference, if not an afterthought, is unsupported by, the provisions of law relied upon,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

since those which are referred to plainly relate to cases of
simulation, and even if applicable to a question of preference,
tend to support the view stated by the court in its second
conclusion of law. Forinstance, the military order of Match 5,
1899, deals but with simulated transfers, and when its context
is considered we think also concerns alone sales made seemingly for cash, and therefore, for a twofold reason, is) inapposite to the question of mere preference arising from a
contract for a legal consideration, although not immediately
payable in cash. So also the general provisions of article 1101
of the Civil Code, providing that those who fraudulently neglect to fulfill their obligations are liable in damages, those of
article 1275, declaring that contracts without a consideration
or with an illicit consideration can have no legal effect, and
the terms of article 1276, providing that the statement of a
false consideration in contracts shall render them void unless
it be proven that they were based on another and licit consideration, may be put out of view, since they simply announce
undisputed propositions of law which are not involved in the
case before us, and which are not disputed by any one. And
a like reason is also adequate to dispose of the contention
based upon the third paragraph of article 1291 of the Civil
Code, which embraces in the enumeration of contracts which
may be rescinded "those executed in fraud of creditors when
the latter cannot recover in any other manner what is due
them." We say this, since this provision clearly limits the
right of the creditor to rescind to cases where he cannot
otherwise recover his debt without resorting to an action for
rescission, and even in such case only confers such right where
the contract sought to be rescinded is one which is in fraud
of his rights. To contend, as is in effect done in the argument
at bar, that the article gives to a creditor a right to sue to
rescind any contract made by his insolvent debtor, simply
because without rescission the creditor cannot otherwise recover his debt, is to distort the elause..by misconceiving its
obvious meaning. The power to seek rescission being thus

WILL v. TORNABELLS.

217 U. .

Opinionof the OUrt.

limited to contracts which are in fraud of the rights of the
creditor, the question is, Did the court below err in holding
*that under the law of Porto Rico contracts made by an insolvent debtor which were not fraudulent simulations, because made upon adequate consideration, are not susceptible
of being rescinded merely because their execution operated a
preference in favor of a creditor? We are cited to no express
provision of the local law, or referred to any decision so interpreting that la*, and we think an analysis of the provisions of the local law .relied upon for the purpose of inferentially showing that the court below erred, clearly not
only do not support but refute the contention we are considering. Thus the provision expressly authorizing the right
to rescind payments made by an insolvent debtor on account
of obligations
which, at the time of making the payments,
the
debtor could
not be compelled to makq (Civil Code,
art. 1292), plainly import the validity of such a payment
under other circumstances. So, also, the provision creating
a presumption of fraud as to alienations for valuable consideration made by an insolvent debtor against whom a
condemnatory judgment has been rendered or a writ of seizure
of property has been issued (Civil Code, art. 1297), also gives
rise to the inference thatwhere these circumstances do not
exist the contrary rule would apply. And the inferences
which are deducible from the text of the code are cogently
fortified by a consideration of the mortgage law. Thus, while
the law contains an enumeration of the suits which may be
brought for the rescission of conveyances made for the purpose of defrauding creditors, and includes those made without
consideration when the third person was a iarty to the fraud
(Mortgage Law, arts. 36 and 37), it does not mention the
case of a mere preference resulting from a contract made for
an otherwise valuable consideration. So, also, in article 39,
the conveyance without consideration to defraud creditors
is expressly limited to those where "there was no price or its
equivalent, or any preexisting obligation which had fallen

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 1. S.

due," an affirmative prohibition which would seem necessarily
to exclude a right to rescind a contract because of mere
preference where there was a price or its equivalent, or where
the consideration was a preexisting obligation which had
fallen due.
The foregoing considerations cause it to be unnecessary to
pass on the error which it is alleged was committed in maintaining the plea of prescription of one year. It remains therc-

fore only to dispose of the errdrs based upon the action of the
court in disposing of objections to testimony. They relate
to two subjects, the first to objections made to the admissibility of the testimony of Mr. Cornwell, one of the attorneys
of record of the.. complainants, concerning statements made
to him by members of the firm of Tornabells & Co. in reference
to their intention to dispose of or mortgage their property,
and the other to the testimony'of the same witness concerning
statements made to him by the widow of Tornabells after the
death of her husband, and during the pendency of the cause,
as to alleged conversations had by her with her husband tending to show the simulation of the contracts which were assailed.
To pass upon the contentions on these subjepts a statement of
what transpired at the time the. evidence in question was
proffered and of the action of the court thereon is essential.
While testimony was being taken in open court Mr. Cornwell,
one. of the attorneys for he complainants, was offered as a
witness on their behalf. It developing at once from the:questions put to him that the purpose was to draw from the witness statements made to him by the meifabers of the firm of
Tornabells & Co. shortly before the assailed conveyance and
mortgage were executed, objection was made that such statementswere incompetent, because at the time they were made
Cornwell was the attorney for the firm and its members, and
therefore the statements were not admissible because privileged communications. Thereupon the examining counsel,
while not denying that at the time the statements were made
the relation of attorney and client existed, insisted that the

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

statements. were admissible, because their character was such
as to cause them to be outside of the privilege. The court
declaring that it would reserve its ruling on the objection
until it had an opportunity to examine the subject during
the noon recess, the examination of the witness proceeded
for the purpose of showing his professional relation to the
firm of Tornabells & Co. at the time of the making of the
statements. When the court convened after the recess the
subject of the admissibility of the offered testimony was at
once taken up. The court intimating doubt on the subject,
the counsel making the objection declared that. he had witnesses present by whon he expected to prove that Mr. Cornwell not only was the confidential legal adviser of Tornabells &
Co. at the time the statements were made to him concerning
which it Was desired to question him, but that he continued
to act for that firm as their attorney after the assailed contracts were made up to the time of the bringing of this suit.
Answering this statement, the counsel for complainants declared that his position was that the offered proof was irrelevant in view of the ruling in Dent v. Ferguson, 132 U. S.
50, to the effect that the privilege did not extend to statements made by a client to his attorney of the intention of the
cient'to commit a fraud. -The court then announced as follows: "I am going to.permit Mr. Cornwell to testify, reserving
the right to see what it is, giving to all the counsel a right to
extept." Upon this announcement counsel for the defendants
insisted upon being permitted' to call witnesses to establish
the existence of the professional relation of the witness with
the firm as previously stated and proceeded to do so. After
testimony had been given and documentary evidence introduced without objection, tending to show the existence of
the relation of attorney and. client between the witness and
the firm of Tornabells & Co., in accordance with the previous
declaration as to what was proposed to be proven on that
subject, the court interrupted the taking of the testimony
as follows:
VOL. CCXvI--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217"U. S.

The Court: It doesn't change the court's mind as to admitting the testimony in the way it intimates. It will let it in.
"Mr. Dexter: I desire to except against that ruling.
"The Court: Give an exception to, all counsel that wish it.
"Mr. Dexter: I want my objection to clearly appear: (1) It
is incompetent because of the relation of attorney and client;
(2) It is incompetent under the United State statute; and
(3) Because of the party being dead.
"Mt . Boerman: I want an exception to every question
given."
The witness Cornwell was then recalled and was fully
examined and cross-examined, not only in regard to'the.
alleged statements, but as to his professional relations with
the firm of Tornabells & Co. when the statements as to which
he testified were made, and thereafter up to or nearly about
the time of the bringing of this suit.
Beyond question, the testimony established that: the witness had been the confidential legal adviser of the firm of
Tornabells & Co. up to and at the time when the statements
as to which he t'estified were made. Without reproducing
the testimony as to the statements, we think it suffices to
say that on the examination-in-chief of the witness he repeated a conversation had with both members of Tomabells & Co. a short while before the making of the conveyance
to Aran y Lanci and the mortgage by the latter of the property, which conversation was odcasioned by the fact that the
members of the firm called upon the witness as their legal
adviser, either to consult him or to state to him the purpose
of the firm to convey or mortgage its property, and that the
witness, on his examination, stated that hb construed the
statements made to him by his clients as unfblding a purpose
on their part to make a simulated transfer of their property
to defraud their creditors,,and that he, the witness, declared
he could not represent tnem in the matter or have anything
to do*with it. The second statement testified to a conversation had with Doitteau, one of the members of the firm, after

WILL v. TORNABELIS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the assailed conveyance and mortgage had been put upon the
record, which the witness considered was an admission by
Doitteau of the fraud and an explanation on the ground that
he consented to it because of the influence of his partner
Tornabells. It is also true, however, that the statements
made by the witness on cross-examination tended to qualify
the impression -as to the conversation resulting from his
statements-in-chief, and to indicate that the purpose of the
members of the firm, as disclosed by them in the conversation,
was either to sell o r mortgage their property in order to raise
money to apply to their debts, and that the witness thought
that .this purpose was illegal, because it was intended with
the funds which might be raised to prefer particular creditors.
It was established that at the time of the first conversation
the witness, although the attorney of the firm, had to its
knowledge the claim of one of its creditors in bis hands professionally. It was also stated that after the conversations
above referred to and after the witness had knowledge of the
existence of! the assailed conveyance and mortgage, he continued both to have personal and professional relations with
the firm. He brought a number of suits in its behalf during
the two years which elapsed between the making of the assailed conveyance and mortgage and the bringing of this
suit. In fact, the claim which was in the witness' hands at
the time of the conversation with the members of the firm
was some time afterwards merged to judgment by a confession by the'members of the firm, *whichwas written in the
office of the witness by one of his associates. Precisely when
the witness became the counsel for all the complainants does
not exactly appear, but. certain is it that he stated in his
testimony that he was to receive a large contingent fee,
amounting in several of the cases to fifty per cent of the
amount recovered. The case, as we have at the outset said,
was decided some months after its. submission, and six
months therbafter the-statement of facts to which we have
referred, accompanied with extracts from the evidence, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

certified by the court. After reproducing in the statement
the extracts frOm the testimony the court said:
"As appears from the above the court tentatively allowed
the foregoing evidence of said witness Cornwell to be admitted, but subsequently, upon the consideration of the testimony as a whole and upon making its findings of fact and law
and rendering its decision herein, the court did determine
and rule that defendants' objections to the testimony of said
witness, Cornwell, in so far as same related to conversations
between said witness and Joaquin Tornabells, Carlos Doitteau
and Luis Aran, should be sustained and said testimony excluded, because the plan outlined by. said Tornabells during
said conversation did not constitute a fraud upon creditors
under the laws of Porto Rico at that time in force, hence the
privilege existing as to confidential communications between
attorney and client was applicable thereto, and further, because
such testimony- involved admissions of a dead man against
the interests of his own heirs, who are parties to the suit."
It is upon this statement that the contention is based that
the court illegally rejected the testimony of the witness
Cornwell. But, when the statement is accurately considered,
it -appears that instead of rejecting the testimony the court
weighed and considered it, and but declared that on its face
it did not tend to establish a fraud within the meaning of the
Porto Rico law, and hence that the statements were privileged.
As the fraud on the part of the firm of Tornabells & Co. which
was charged in the bill, -and the fraud which it was insisted
was demonstrated by the statements made to the witness were
in substance one and the same, it necessarily follows that the
finding of the court, that the statements .testified to did not
tend to show the fraud which it was asserted they did show,
was but an expression of the conclusion of the court upon the
facts involved in the merits of the controversy, .and therefore
is embraced in its finding of fact which we may not review.
If, however, we could otherwise consider the action of the
court, we are constrained to say, upon an examination of the

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

testimony of the witness, made part of the certificate, that
we think the court was right in concluding that the testimony
did not establish a sufficient foundation to relieve the witness
from the obligation resting upon him as the result of his professional relations.
The error which it is insisted the court committed as to the
statements of the widow of*Tornabells need only be briefly
noticed. In the course of his examination the witness Cornwell was asked concerning statements made to him by Mrs.
Tornabells of conversations which she 'stated she had with
her husband, tending to show that the assailed contracts were
simulated, the statements to the witness having been made
after the death of Mr. Tornabells. In reference to the motives
which induced Mrs. Tornabells to make to him the statements
about which the witness was asked, he said that she represented herself to be ingreat pecuniary distress and was desirous of ascertaining whether she and her children could not
in some way be benefited if the pending suit assailing the
conveyance and mortgage of the property was successful.
Indeed, on cross-examination, the witness said:
"Q.* Is it a fact, Mr. Cornwell, that a contract was made
between your firm and this woman to give her either money
or property?
"A. If it was, it was made afterwards by Judge Pettingill

and Mr. Horton.
"Q. I am asking you if it was.
"A. I don't know. I am out at the mill the most of the
time."
On objection being made to the witness testifying to the
statements of Mrs. Tornabells as to the conversations with
her deceased husband, the court declared that the objection
would be overruled pro forma, with a right to sustain it later,
and gave counsel for the defendants an exception. Thereupon the counsel for the complainants declared as follows:
"I want to get on the record that it is not claimed by the
complainants that this statement, whatever it may be, made

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

by the widow of Tomabells as a defendant in this case, binds
any defendant or is admissible against any defendant except
herself and the minor children whom she represents."
After this declaration the witness testified as to the statements made to him by Mrs. Tornabells concerning conversations with her husband, the substance of which tended to
show that the assailed contracts were fraudulent simulations.
Although the testimony was thus in the case when it was
submitted to the court for decision, in its certificate appended
to the statement of facts to which we have already referred
the court said that in disposing of the case it, in effect, concluded that the statement by Mrs. Tornabells as to the conversations with her husband were inadmissible, because they
were hearsay, Mrs. Tornabells not having been called as a
witness, and because, in any event, it was incompetent to
establish the want of good faith in written contracts .made
by a deceased person by repeating conversations had with
him during his lifetime. Conceding that the action of the
court can be. construed. as indicating thiat it rejected the
testimony instead of simply weighing it, and found it insufficient to prove the alleged fraud, we think it suffices to say,
without further elaboration, that the reasons stated by the
court are, on their face, adequate to sustain its conclusion.
Besides, as the testimony of the witness Cornwell concerning
the statements made by the widow Tornabells was offered
only as against her and her children and not against the other
defendants, it clearly results that no prejudicial error could
in any event have resulted from the ruling, even on the
hypothesis that the administratrix was competent by a mere
admission to injuriously affect the estate of her minor children, which the court made, in view of its finding as to the
rights of the other defendants.
Affirmed.

