OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE
OF NEBRASKA.
SAME v.SAME EX REL. FARMERS' ELEVATOR
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

Nos. 127, 128.

Argued March 7, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

There are constitutional limits to what can be required of the owners
of railroads tmder the police power.
Requiring the expenditure of money takes property whatever may be
the ultimate return for the outlay.
It ie beyond the police power of a State to compel a railroad company
to put in switches at its own expense on the application of the owners of any elevator erected within a specified limit. It amounts to
deprivation of property without due process of law; and so held as
-to the applications for such switches made by elevator companies in
these cases under the statute of Nebraska requiring such switch
connections.
Quwre whether even if a statute requiring railroad companies to make
such switch connections at their own expense be construed as confined to such demands as are reasonable, it does not deprive the railroad company of its property without due process of law if it does
not allow the company a hearing as to the reasonableness of'the
demand prior to compliance therewith, where, as in this case, failure
to comply involves heavy and continuing penalties.
81 Nebraska, 15, reversed.

TBE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a statute
of the iState of Nebraska requiring railroad companies to
make switch connections with grain elevators under certain
conditions, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Balie P:.Waggener, with whom Mr. James W. Orr was
on'the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Nebraska statute in terms, and he construed by the
state court, operated to take the property of -the railway company for a private use, without its consent, and without com-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

pensation, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. C., M.
& St. P. R.R. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Hartford Ins. Co.
v. Railroad Co., 175 U. S. 99; see Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
148.
If the validity of this law is sustained, the control and
management of railroad property will be turned over to
every farmer who wants or imagines he wants side tracks to
elevators.
The alternative arrangement of the section of the act in
controversy was evidently made for the purpose of avoiding
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v: Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, but it
entirely fails so to do.
There is no question of rates to be made nor facilities to be
furnished, by the railroad company for the transportation of
passengers or freight connected with the questions presented'
in this case. It is not a question of additional or'better or
different railroad facilities. It is not intended that the railroad'
company should have any control over this elevator to aid in
or facilitate the movement of freight. It is to be purely a
private concern, operated by private persons for private gain,
and in no manner connected with the public or the railroad
company. As to this see Mann v. Pere Marquete R. Co., 135
Michigan, 210, 219.
In no event can property be taken, except for public, use,
nor then without just compensation. C., K. & N. R. R. Co.
v. Haze/S, 26 Nebraska, 354; Gotschalk v. C., B. & Q. R. Co.,
14 Nebraska, 550, 559.
The taking of private property does not necessarily mean
the taking of real estate, but applies as well to the taking of
personal property as of real property, and where, as in the
case at bar,.the railway company is not only required to part
with the possession of certain portions of its real estate, but
also with its money, for the purpose of constructing and
operating a railroad the taking of the money is as much
inhibited by the Constitution as would be the physical taking
of a portion of its right of way, or its real estate. Welton v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Etror.

217 U.S.

Dickson, 38 Nebraska, 767; Mich. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Collector,
100 U. S. 595; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148
U. S.324; Atlantic &c. Tel. Co. v. Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 6
Bissell (U. S.), 158.
The proposed taking of the right of way and moneys of the
defendant company is for a private and not a public use.
Re Manderson, 51 Fed. Rep. 503. In re Montgomery, 48
Fed. Rep. 896; and see C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166-U. S. 233, 241.
The statute, as construed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska,is void, within L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Stock Yards, 212
U. S. .132. It is arbitrary and unreasonabl-denies to the
railroad company the equal protection of the law; deprives
it of its property, for private use, without compensation and
without .due -process of law. Interstate Comm. Comm. v.
Railro&zdCo., 209 U. S. 118. The statute gives the company
no discretion or voice whatever in the premises. It can appeal
to no tribunal for relief. The fact that the company gives
elevator switches to some does not give to every person the
right to demand a switch of the railway company. The statute vests in the applicant the power to be the sole judge as to
necessity and in that respect is arbitrary and illegal. Nor.
Pac. R. R. v. Dustin, 142 U.S. 492; RailroadCo. v. Minnesota,
193 U. S.53; and see Atlantic Coast Line v. N. C. Com., 206

U. S: 20.
The power to regulate is not the power to destroy, and
limitation is not the equivalent of confiscation. Reagan v.
Farmers' &c. Co., 154 U. S. 399; Railroad Commission Cases,
116 U. S.331, and see also Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S.540.
Every person in Nebraska, except a railway company, may
exercise some discretion in the management of his business.
Under this statute, the railway company has no discretion.
See Hartford Ins. Co. v. Chicago Ry., 175 U. S.91; Dodge v.
Mission Township, 107 Fed. Rep. 827; McKinster v. Sager,
163 Indiana, 671; Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Not only must the purpose be public for which the land is
taken, but the State must have a voice in the manner in which
the public may use it. Board of Health v. Van Hoesen, 87
Michigan, 533; In re Burns, 155 N. Y. 23-49; Wisconsin Keely
Co. v. Milwaukee Co., 95 Wisconsin, 153; Davidson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97-102; Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.
In operation and effect the statute is a delegation of the
right and power of eminent domain, for a private purpose,
and, without notice or hearing, permits and authorizes any
"person or association" to take and appropriate the private
property of the railroad company, without its consent, and
without compensation.
This statute of Nebraska is an arbitrary and capricious
exercise of power, and denies "the equal protection of the
laws." In re Eureka Warehouse, 96 N. Y. 42-48; Weidenfeld
v. Sugar &c. Co., 48 Fed. Rep. 615; Gaylord v. Chicago &c.,
204 Illinois, 576; Jordan v. Woodward, 40 Maine, 317.
The statute, on its face, is class legislation, in this: That
its operation as to elevators "hereafter" constructed is restricted to those having a capacity of fifteen thousand bushels.
State v. Haun, 61 Kansas, 146; Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S.
79; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
Upon 'the conceded facts, the state court was without
jurisdiction .inthe premises, and its order and judgment in
violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
. The statute is in direct conflict with the act of Congress.
The one is arbitrary; makes no provision for notice, reasonableness or compensation. The other provides for a hearing
pnd compensation. The one is extreme and populistic in all
of its terms; the other is wise, reasonable and just. Congress
has also providedthe remedy for violation of the commission's orders, and-designated the tribunal for its enforcement.
In re Railway Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 940;
Armour v. United Statis, 209 U. S. 78; Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton o.) 204 U. S. 430, 452; Wilson v. The
Blackbird, 2 Pet. 250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

217 U. S.

The statute as construed by the state court, is an attempted
regulation of the conduct of a carrier, subject to the provisions
of the act of Congress, and of the instrumentalities and
facilities of that carrier used and necessary to be used in interstate commerce Weltori v' The State, 91 U. S. 280; Railroad
Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 469; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 489;
Lake Co. v. Railroad Co., 130 U. S. 670; Railway Co.v. Interstate Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 211; Copp v. Railroad Co., 43
La. Anti. 511; Dudley v. Mayhew, 3 N. Y. 9; The Moses Taylor,
4 Wall. 411; Gulf, Col. &c. Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 99;
RailroadCo. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613-636.
Mr. R. C. James, Mr. William P. Thompson and Mr. Norris
Bro", with whom Mr. C. Gillespie was on the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. William P. Thompson for defendant in error in No. 127;
Mr. R. C. James and Mr. Norris Brown, with whom Mr. C.
Gillespie was on the brief, for defendant in error in No. 128:
The statute does not operate to take the property of the
railway company within the meaning of the Constitution
without its consent and without compensation, and is not in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Wis. &c: R. R. v.
Jacobson, 179 U.. S. 296; Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678,
684; Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.
641; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, 569,
570; Lake Shore Ry. Co: v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 301.
The statute is valid by whatever test applied. Obviously,
it is within the provisions of the state constitution. The act
is a clear exercise of the. police power enjoyed by every
sovereignty on which rests the burden to care for the public
health,, safety and convenience. A common carrier doing an
interstate as well as intrastate business is not above the reach
o? local police authorityAlthough to carry out the judgment may require the
exercise by the plaintiff in error of the power of eminent

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

domain, and will also result in some, comparatively speaking,
small expense, yet neither fact furnishes an answer to the
application of the defendant in error. Mayor &c. v. Northwstern Ry., 109 Massachusetts, 112; People v. Railroad Co.,
58 N. Y. 152, 163; People v. Boston R. R. Co., 70 N. Y. 569;
People v. Railroad Co., 104 N. Y. 58, 67.
In the exercise of its police power the State may legislate
for the public convenience as well as for the public health,
morals or safety. The side track in question is for the convenience of the public in loading its grain into the cars of'
the railroad company. It is a public inconvenience, expensive
in time as well as money, to haul the grain in wagons from the
elevator to the car.
Public convenience justifies statutes requiring interstate
carriers to stop at stations long enough to allow passengers to
get on and off the trains. Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285, 300. See also Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713;
Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107
U. S. 678, 683; Caldwell v. Am. Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205, 208;
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James,
162 U. S. 650, 662, and Richmond & Allegheny R. R. v. Patterson Tobacco Co., 169 U. S. 311, 315.
In compelling the common carrier to deal fairly and without
discrimination with its patrons and the public the statute is
merely declaratory of the common law. It is a reasonable
provision and places no irksome or unnecessary burden on the
railroad, whose business is with the grain-shipping public at
the elevator, just as it is with the passenger nublic at the

depot.
The constitutional provision .against taking property without compensation was not intended to deny the State the
proper exercise of its police powers. C., B. & Q. Ry..Co. v.
Drainage Comm., 200 U. S. 562.
Upon the conceded facts, the State had full jurisdiction m
the premises and the Federal Interstate Commerce Commission under the terms of the Hepburn Act is without juiAsdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

217 U.S.

tion over the subject-matter involved in the case at bar.
Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285.
.The Federal tribunal has jurisdiction only of such matters
as directly involve interstate commerce.
Mr. William T. Thompson, Attorney General of the State
of Nebraska, and Mr. Grant G. Martin for defendant in error,
the State of Nebraska, submitted:
Each State has the inherent power to regulate all commerce within its limits of purely an internal character. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 194.
The internal commerce of a State-that is, the commerce
which is wholly confined within its limits--is as much under
its control as foreign or interstate commerce is under the
control of the general government. Sands v. Maniatee R.
Imp. Co., 123 U. S. 288. See also Wabash, St. L. & P..Ry.'Co.
v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557.
The exclusive power to regulate interstate commerce be-.
longs to Congress, but the jurisdiction of the State over its,
commerce of a purely domestic character is equally exclusive.
Regulations such as are in this statute are strictly within the

police power of the State. They are not in themselves regulations of interstate commerce; and it.is only when they operate
as such in the circumstances of their application, and conflict
with the express or presumed will of Congress exerted upon
the same subject, that they can be required to give way to
the paramount authority of the Constitution of the United
States. Stone v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 116 U. S. 307, 333,
334; Smith V.Alabama, 124 U. 5.. 465, 481, 482; Hennington
v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 308, 317; N. Y., New Haven & H.
R. R. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628, 632; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U: S. 43.
One engaging in interstate commerce does not thereby
submit all his business to the regulating power of Congress.
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463. The Interstate
Commerce Act is limited to the regulation of the business of

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

interstate commerce. The Hepburn law did not become operative until after this cause of action had accrued.
This act is not special or class legislation. That the classification limiting the applicability of the law to elevators having 15,000 bushels capacity is greatly to the advantage of the
railway company. Such a class is reasonable, and general in
its terms. It operates on all alike, is restricted to no locality
and operates squarely upon all the groups of objects. It is
not special law. Hunzinger v. State, 39 Nebraska, 653. See
also State v. Berka, 20 Nebraska, 375; State v. Graham, 16
Nebraska, 64; McClay v. City of Lincoln, 32 Nebraska, 412;
Van Horn v. State, 46 Nebraska, 62; State v. Robinson, 35
Nebraska, 401; Livingston Bldg. & L. Assn. v. Drummond,
49 Nebraska, 200.
The act does not seek to take or damage property without
just compensation or due process of law. It is designed to be
a facility which will enable the railway company to better
serve its patrons and more expeditiously perform its own
work. This side track must ever remain a part of the railroad
and hence a part of the Public highway of the State. See Roby
v. Farmers'Grain Co., 107 N. W. Rep. 766; Rock Creek Toumship. v. Strong, 96 U. S. 271; Black v. Philadelphia& R. R.
Co., 58 Pa. St. 249.: Missouri Pacific Ry. v. State, 1(4 U. S.
404, is not in point for the reason that the statute under consideration in that case expressly provided that the railroad
company should give a site on its right of way to the elevator
company on which to build an elevator.
The police powers of. the State include questions of public
welfare and convenience as well as questions of public health
and morals. ci6wton v. Steele, 152"U. S. 133; Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113; Minneapolis.& St. L. R. Co. v. Herrick, 127 U. S.
210; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Cutts, 94 U. S. 155; Pike
v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 94 U. S. 164; Wisconsin M. & P. R.
Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
Florida;203 U. S. 256; Atlantic .CoastLine v. Nor. Car. Corp.
Comm., 206 U. S. 19. A railroad company, as an interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

carrier, may be compelled by state authority to furnish necessary facilities and convenience to accommodate the public
within the State even though it suffer loss thereby. Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Nor. Car. Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 26.
In this case, however, the railroad company will suffer no
loss by affording this facility.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are two suits arising under a Nebraska statute. The
first is brought by the State to recover a fine of five hundred
dollars imposed by the law for failure to obey its command;
the second is brought at the relation of the party concerned
to compel obedience to the same command by mandamus.
The statute in question provides that "every railroad company
or corporation operating a railroad in the State of Nebraska
shall afford equal facilities to all persons or associations who
desire to erect or operate, or who are engaged in operating
grain elevators, or in handling. or shipping grain at or contiguous to any station of its road, and where an application
has been made in writing for a location or site for the building
or construction of an elevator, or elevators on the railroad
right of way and the same not having been granted within a
limit of sixty days, the said railroad company to whom application has been made, shall elect, equip and imaintain a side
track or switch of suitable length to appioach as near as four
feet of the outer edge of their right of way when necessary and
in all cases to approach as near as necessary to approach an
elevator that may be erected by the applicant or applicants
adjacent to their right of way for the purpose of loading grain
into .ars from said elevator, and for handling and shipping
grain to all persons or associations so erecting or operating
such elevators, or handling and shipping grain, without
favoritism or discrimination in any respect whatever. Provided, however, that any elevator hereafter constructed, in
order to receive the benefits of this act, must have a capacity

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

of not less than fifteen thousand bushels." Then follows a
section making railroads liable for damages in case of wilful
violation of the act, (which contains other provisions beside the
above), and imposes the above-mentioned fine for each offense.
Session Laws of 1905, c. 105, §§ 1, 6. 2 Cobbey's Supplement,
§10007, p. 410. Under this act the Manley Co6perative Grain-Association,
a corporation, applied in writing for a site for an elevator on
the right of way of the plaintiff in error, in Manley, Nebraska,
but the application was refused. Then notice was sent that
the corporation.intended to build near the end of a side track
at the railroad station at Manley and would expect an extension of the side track. The railroad company replied that
it would give no trackage privilege. The elevator was built
and a demand was made for a side track, repeating a previous
offer to beat a fair share of the expense of the extension. This
also was refused, and thereupon the first mentioned suit was
brought for the penalty imposed by the act. The other suit
is a petition for mandamus at the relation of the Farmers'
Elevator Company of Strausville, Nebraska, another elevator
corporation, and the facts are so like the foregoing that they
do not need special statement. In both cases the railroad
company set up that the statute was an attempt to regulate
commerce among the States and also was void under the Fourteenth Amendment. After trials the fine was imposed and
the peremptory writ of mandamus was ordered, and both
judgments *ere affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
81 Nebraska, 15; 115 N. W. Rep. 757.
It will have been noticed that there is no provision in the
statute for compensation to the railroad for its outlay in building and maintaining the side tracks required. In the present
cases, the initial cost is said to be $450 in one and $1732 in the
other; and to require the company to incur this expense unquestionably does take its property, whatever may be thc
speculations as to the ultimate return for the outlay. Wood.
ward Y. Central Vermont Railvvy Co., 180 Massachusetts, 599

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

602, 603. Moreover a part of the company's roadbed is appropriated mainly to a special use, even if it be supposed that the
side track would be available incidentally for other things than
to run cars to and from the elevator. Now it is true that railroads can be required to fulfil the purposes for which they are
chartered and to do what is reasonably necessary to serve the
public in the way in which they undertake to serve it, without
compensation for the performance of some part of their duties
that does not pay. Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 262. It also is true that the States have power
to modify and cut down property rights to a certain limited
extent without compensation, for public purposes, as a necessary incident of government-the power commonly called the
police power. But railroad.- after all are property protected by
the Constitution,. and there are constitutional limits to what
can be required of their owners under either the police power
or any other ostensible justification for taking such property
away.
Thus it is at least open to question whether a railroad company could be required to deliver cattle at another than its.
own stock yard at the end of the transit, or cars elsewhere than
at its own terminus, without extra charge, if it furnished
reasonable accommodations, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Central Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132, 144. Central Stock
Yards Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 192 U. S. 568,
570. CovingtonStock Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128. So far
as we see a grain elevator stands in no stronger position than a
stock yard. If, as intimated, the elevators with which the
Missouri Pacific connects charge too much and wrong the
farmers, there may be other remedies; but manifestly the
apprehension expressed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
that the company, unless checked, will have power to establish
a monopoly, is not to be met merely by building another elevator-the physical limits of that kind of competition are too
easily r-ached. But if we assume that circumstances might
make it reasonable to compel a railroad to deliver and receive

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. NEBRASKA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

grain elsewhere than at its own elevators, or those that it had
made its own by. contract, the circumstances must be exceptional when it would be constitutional to throw the extra
charge of reduplicating already physically adequate accommodations upon the road.
This statute has no reference to special circumstances. It is
universal in terms. If we were to take it literally, it makes the
demand of the elevator company conclusive, without regard to
special needs and, possibly, without regard to place. It is true
that in the first of the present cases the Supreme Court of Nebraska discussed the circumstances and expressed the opinibn
that the demand was reasonable and that building the side
track would not cast an undue burden upon the, road; and, in
the second, it somewhat less definitely indicated a similar
opinion. So it may be, although it hardly seems possible, that
the sweeping words of the statute would be construed as, by
implication, confining • their requirements to reasonable demands. On the face of it the statute seems to require the railroad to pay for side tracks, whether reasonable or not-or, if
another form of expression be preferred, to declare that a dtmand for a side track to an elevator anywhere is reasonable,
.and that the railroads must pay. Clearly no such obligation
is incident to their public duty, and to impose it goes beyond
the limit of the police power.
But if the statute is to be stretched, or rather shrunk, to
such demands as ultimately may. be held reasonable by the
state court, still it requires too mich. Why should the railroads pay for what, after all, are privitte connections? We see
no reason. And, moreover, even on this strained construction,
they refrain from paying at the peril of a fine, if they turn out,
wrong in their guess that in the particular case the court will
hold the demand not authorized by the act. If the statute
makes the mere demand conclusive, it'plainly cannot be upheld. If it requires a side track only when the demand is
reasonable, then the railroad ought, at least, to. be allowed a
hearing in advance to decide whether the demand is within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion o t

Court.

217 U.S.

act. Sometimes when summary action is necessary the property owner's rights are preserved by leaving all questions open
in . subsequent suit. North American Storage Co. v. Chicago,
211 U. S. 306. But in such cases the risk is thrown on the
destroyer of property. In this case there is no emergency, yet
at the best the owner of the property, if it has any remedy at
all, acts at its risk, not merely of being compelled to pay both
the expense of building and the costs of suit, but also of incurring a fine of at least five hundred dollars for its offense in
awaiting the result of a hearing. See Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134.U. S. 418. An earlier statute authorizing the State Board of Transportation after hear-:ing to require the railroad to permit the erection of an elevator
upon its roadbed already has been held bad. Missouri Paclfic
Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403. See also HartfordFireIns.
Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91, 99.
We are of opinion that this statute is unconstitutional in its
application to the present cases, because it does not provide
indemnity for what it requires. We leave other questions on
one side, and do not intend'by anything that we have said
to prejudice a later amendment providing for a preliminary
hearing and compensation, which is said to have been passe In
1907. (See Laws of 1907, c. 89, p. 309.)

Judgmen s rered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

