CASES ADJUDGED
IN THS

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.

STATE OF MARYLAND v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 1, Original.

Argued November 2, 3, 4, 1909.-Decided February 21,
1910.

The record in this case sustains theproposition that for many yeips
the people of Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia, have accepted
as the boundary between Maryland and West Virginia the line
known as the Deakins line, and have consistently adhered to the
Faitfax Stone as the starting point of such line, and that none of the
steps taken to delimitate the boundary since such line was run in
1788 have been effqctual, or such as to disturb the continued possession of people claiming rights up, to such Deakins line on the Virginia and West Virginia side.
Whether long continued possession by a Siate of territory.has ripened
into sovereignty thereover which should be recognized by other
States depends upon the facts in individual cases as they arise.
Whore possession of territory has been undisturbed for many years a
prescriptive right arises which is equally binding under the principles of justice on States and individuals.
Even if a meridian boundary' line is not astronomically -correct, it
should not be overthrown after it has been recognized for many
years and become the basis for public and private rights of property.
The decree in this case should provide for the appointment of comnias-

VOL. CCXVI--i

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff.

217 U. S.

sioners to run and permanently mark, as the boundary line between Maryland and West Virginia, the old Deakins line, beginning
at a point where tihe north and south line from the Fairfax Stone
crosses the Potomac River and running thence northerly along said
line to the Pennsylvania border.
West Virginia is not entitled to the Potomac River to the north bank
thereof. Morris v. United States, 174 U. S. 196.
Boundary disputes between States should be adjusted according to
the facts in the case by the applicable principles of law and equity,
and in such manner as will least disturb private rights and titles
regarded as settled by the people most affected; and it should be the
manifest duty of the lawmaking bodies of adjoining Stateb to confirm such private rights in accordance with such principles.
THE facts, which involve that portion of the boundary line
between the two States lying between Garrett County, Maryland, and Preston County, West Virginia, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Isaac Lobe Straus, Attorney General of the State of
Maryland, and Mr. Edward H. Sincell, with whom Mr.
William L. Rawls was on the brief, for the plaintiff:
The charter of Maryland gave to the Lord Proprietary an
absolute right of soil in and to all the territory comprehended
within its specified boundaries. Cunningham v. Browning,
1 Bland Ch. Rep. 305; Cassell v. Carroll, 2 Bland Ch. Rep.

127; Baltimore v. McKim, 3 Bland Ch. Rep. 455; Briscoe v.
State, 68 Maryland, 294; Wharton v. Wise, 153 U. S.. 155;
Morris v. United States, 174 U. S. 196'

The State of Maryland at and by the Revolution acquired
all the territorial rights vested in the Proprietary before the
Revolution. Cases supra; Ringgold v. Malott, 1 H. & J.
299; Howard v. Moale, 2 H. & J. 249; Matthews v. Ward, 10

G. & J. 443; Smith v. Deveemon, 30 Maryland, 374; United
States v. Morris, 23 Wash. Law Rep. 759.
The State of Maryland stands upon the calls in the charter
to Lord Baltimore as paramount, controlling and final in delimiting and fixing her western and southern boundaries.

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff.

The construction of this grant of territory in the charter
of Maryland has been judicially settled. The courts and all
other authorities have again and again declared that the
charter defines the western and southern boundaries of the
former province and present State of Maryland as having
a common terminus at the first fountain of the Potomac
River-that is to say, that the western boundary is the
meridian running from the Pennsylvania line due south to
the first fountain of the Potomac River, and that the southwestern and southern boundary begins at the said first
fountain on the farther or southern bank or shore, and from
that point runs along said farther or southern shore or bank
*of the river to its mouth-the southern shore or bank of the
river, from its source to its mouth, being the boundary of
Maryland on its southern and southwestern sides, and the
whole of the river and its bed, from its source to its mouth,
being within the boundaries of the State.
Every court, every jurist and every author who has ever
mentioned the subject at all, unite, concur and agree in this
construction and view of the boundaries called for by the
charter, and not a single dissent from this construction can
be found anywhere except the claim put forth for the first
time in this case that the western boundary of Maryland does
not run to the western source or first fountain of the Potomac,
but is located on the main body of the stream, two miles
(10,321.1 feet). eastward from its most western spring or
source, and almost a mile (4,020 feet) distant from the spring
which the defendant contends is the first spring called for
by the charter.
The State of Maryland submits that it has always been
understood and declared, never denied or dubted and repeatedly and uniformly adjudicated that the southern and
southwestern boundaries of Maryland extend along the
southern shore of the Potomac River from its mouth throughout its whole extent to its first fountain or source. In other
words, the meridian which the charter calls for as its western

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff.

217 U. S.

boundary, which is located at the first fountain of the river,
runs from the Pennsylvania line to the first fountain of the
river and that, accordingly, the southwestern and the southern
boundaries of the State extend from the point of the meridian
at its first fountain upon the southern bank of the stream at
its first fountain all the way to the mouth of the stream at
the Chesapeake Bay. Every court and every other authority
which has had occasion to consider this subject has so construed this charter. And this is the only construction which
is consonant with the manifest intention of the grant and
with the rule of interpreting such grants as laid down by the
foremost publicists and jurists. Cases supra and Chapman
v. Hoskins, 2 Md. Chanc. 485; Alexandria Canal Co. v. Distriet of Columbia, 9 Wash. Law Rep. 456; 1 Story's Comm.,
§ 103; O'Neal v. Virginia Bridge Co., 18 Maryland, 1, 16, and
see Mr. Alvey's argument in Doddridge v. Thompson, 9 Wheat.
469; Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 416, 424, 425; Vattel's
Law of Nations, bk. 1, ch. 22, par. 5; -1Bancroft's Hist. of
U. S., ch. 7, p. 241; McMahon's Hist. of Maryland, 49, 51,
69; McSherry's Hist. of Maryland; Prof. Win. H. Browne's
"Maryland: The History of a Palatinate," 18; 1 Scharf's
Hist. of Maryland, 409; United States v. Texas, 162 U. S. 1;
Uhl v. Reynolds, 23 Ky. Law Rep. 759; 30 Am. and Eng.
Ency. of Law, title "Waters and Watercourses," sub-title
"Source," 351; Gould on Waters, §41; Wright v. Brown, 1
Simon and St. 203; 2 Farnham on Waters and Watercourses,
§ 501, p. 1656.
In Professor Steiner's "Institutions and Civil Government of
Maryland" (Ginn & Co., 1899), p. 2, the southern and western
boundaries of Maryland are described as from the mouth
of the Potomac, "along the south bank of that river to the
source of its north branch; on the west the meridian of the
source."
Where a watercourse has its source in a spring, such
source is itself a part of the watercourse. 30 Am. and Eng.
Ency. of Law, title "Waters and Watercourses," sub-title

MARYLIND v. WEST VIRGINIA
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff.

"Source," pp. 351, 352; Dudden v. Guardiansof the Poor, 1 H.
& N. 627; Tate v. Parrish,7 T. B. Mon. (Ky.) 325; Colrick v.
Swinburne, 105 N. Y. 503; Fleming v. Davis, 37 Texas, 173;
Arnold v. Foot, 12 Wend. 330; Evans v. Men weather, 3
Scamxuon (Ill.), 495.
Where a natural monument is called for on a description
of the boundaries of land, the identification of the object
intended by the description is to be determined by a fair and
reasonable construction of the whole instrument, regard being
had in all cases to the true intent of the parties as expressed
therein. 5 Cyc., ."Boundaries," 869; Home v. Smith, 159
U. S. 40; Reynolds v. MeArthur, 2 Pet. 417; Handley's Lessee
V. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 377; Meredith v. Pielert, 9 Wheat.
573; 8 Century Digest, title "Boundaries," 43.
The court must place itself -as nearly as possible in the
situation of the contracting parties at the time the deed was
made in order to ascertain their intent. 4 Am. and Eng.
Ency. of Law, title "Boundaries," 796.
The State of Maryland stands upon the calls in her charter
to Lord Baltimore as -paramount, controlling and final in
delimiting and fixing her western and southern boundaries.
"Fairfax Stone" does'not stand at the first fountain of
the Potomac River.
This was unequivocally approved in Morris v. United
States, 174 U. S.225.
The location of the Fairfax Stone as the first fountain of
the Potomac River is against the plain provisions of the
charter to Lord Baltimore, and defeats its calls for the western and southern boundaries of Maryland.
Potomac Spring-is the first fountain of the Potomac River.
The first fountain of a stream is the point or source in which
the water first comes to the surface. Cases supra and Colrick
v. Swinburne, 105 N. Y. 503.
It is absolutely undisputed in this case, that Potomac
Spring is the point at which the water first comes to the
surface and begins to flow in a regular channel. and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff.

•:217 U. S.

Potomac Spring rises .farthest to the. northwest. of all-the
b
waters of Potomac River.
Every physical, geographical and. topbgraphical.feature of
the region surrounding the head-waters of the Potomac River
unmistakably and unquestionably stamp, Potomac. Spring as
:the first fountain of the :Potomac, River, and. a meridian line
run through that spring fully and precisely satisfies and
,strictly conforms to every call for the:initial point -in the
western and southern .boundaries of Maryland contained in
its charter.
Potomac River heading at Potomac Spring at once assumes
a definite.: southeast course-the prevailing course of. the
rivern-with -regular .-banks, while Fairfax Run runs directly
opposite the course of. the river,,.first flows :nearly .due*west,
.thence northwest and thence northeast and. east to the point
of its confluence with the main body..of, the river shown at
Station 31 Qnthe plati.. ,
Potomac Spring is perennial in,.its flow, while ,the springs
in the vicinity of Fairfax Stone are only wet-weather -springs,
and have of te, been found entirely: dry.
waters,:fr.m Potomac Spring emanate and flow from
STheb
the Atlantic Watershediand froma point within' only 300 feet
of the summit of Backbone Mountain, which 'is the acknowledged watershed of the. Appalachian .Range,. separating the
waters which flow into the Atlantic from those ;that flow
into the Mississippi and .the Gulf of.Mexico. ;Fairfax Stone
stands upon: a :foothill of .the: Backbone Mountain. and at a
much lower clervtion than Potomac Spring.' Potomac Spring
issues .out of the east.-side of Backbone Mountain: at a point
277.3feet from. the top; of. -the mountain at-,an elevation of
3,365 feet, :one of the very highest points -on the Atlantic
Watershed in Maryland and West .Virginia....
Potomac Spring, by the undisputed testimony as ascertained .by actual. survey, -is the westernmost source ofrthe
Potomac .Ri.vyer, and, a.:meridian drawn through it immediately across the crest of,.Backbone Mountain .oi t-he Atlantic

MARYL.AN ,,r WEST VIRGINIA.

Watershed'"'t a :point, onl' 301.1 feet-north of said sp-in,'
and thus leaves to the east of it all the waters of.-the PotomaC
Potomac 8prin;g as the iiial point of the first :fountain
ofl te Poitmia River at once gratifies-ItIi -call in th harter
of Maryaidfor both its iestern and southeniibou dar'ies.:
Maryland is still entitled to the calls in hek charter fo lthe
fist: foiixraii of the Potomac River and the meridian therefrom"to:nenorth, And :no ieason is shown by this record *hy
this court should declare that she has forfeited this right.' :
Th~~decieeini is cas wilf determine Where: the Westerm
bounday of 'Maryland is- and will settle its location"'as:by.
origihal "rght in the 'plate decreed. 'Rhodisland -v: M schusett2, 12 Pet. 657.
Th6 only "line' 'the defendant has attempted to set upm a
bouidary' b6tween the two States, and ihe oia wihich, ti her.
answer she maintans is the trze boundary be6e'n the States,
is: I~ : se-called Deakins ie," but .tfieeecontntions "are
absolutely,
without
foundation
and 'her wholeiand en 'tire position:
up 6 ' this
questionin isfact,
preicat&t
upon7 absolutely b~a~des a~sumption of ' hat..rfle.kihsdd aid
dfthe uthr.y ".un.der w fith
a. e.rr.eous concepion
acted athe tithe ,of layig oUt the :militatry' lts for theStahte

of m"r tlio., 7The Stip6 o-f MryladA enits.thht Tfhe 1ekins'
I
reotl~ e 'and that the: saxii was ev: lcated
line .~'
as a ttu6 north line, and: that the sanewas ever loca ed froih
the Fairfax Stone, and that the same is even a c6htiu6iis line

-n~

thee1 anMy ei' e-IPhi
cause to show these alleged facts 6r an. cdf tih . Th6 Deakins
lhi,*'aWi bniidaryline; is a mere myth, nd ih point of •fae
Aevenas
&66ontmiruous- linie Nween its noh andi'":
neier did exist
bet~/eezi iy terhhim

south ends, and far less as a boundary tine mfaking'theweste&nbiiidary ofthe State-of' Maryland...
The Dealdn'6 line never was authon6 di hecoghise l.y the
and the i is astely d:
in thi
Sttof

proof in this .case tending to show that Piancis'Deaakins W~d'

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff.

217 U. S.

out said line. The State has always expressly denied that it

was a boundary.
See resolutions passed by the First Constitutional Convention of Maryland in 1776, immediately after the recognition
of the territorial rights of Maryland by the State of Virginia,
thrbugh its representatives in its convention, and also see Act
of Maryland, 1788, oh. 44, J 15.
Deakins neither mentioned nor suggested any such thing as
a boundary of the State from one end of his report to the
other.
None of the military lots in the western tier thereof depend
upon br hang from the said Deakins line or -ny other line
having any relation to the said Deakins line for their location,
Upon no hypothesis whatever can the Monroe line be regarded as making out or retracing or constituting in itself as
an original locatioh any boundary between Maryland and
West Virginia; and it is nothing but a line of reference without any significance in this case.
The Potomac Meridian, located by the State of Maryland,
with its initial point at Potomac Spring, the most western
source of the Potomac River, and running thence north to
Mason and Dixon's line as shown upon the plats of the plain,
tiff, stands as the only line located in this case by either party
as a boundary between Maryland and West Virginia which is
before the court and upon which as the case stands a decreK.
can be rendered.
This case presents .for final determination by this court a
dispute which admittedly has been open and pending for
more than a century and which during that period has been
the subject of continuous discussion and controversy between
the sovereign parties to this suit.
Maryland has presented her claim plainly and definitely
upon her plats, shown by the result of actual survey upon the
ground, and precisely indicating the boundary for which she
contends as lawfully hers.

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff.

On the other hand, West Virginia fails to set up any counter
location illustrative of her contention.
In view of the very great importance of this matter to both
parties, we submit the inquiry to this tribunal, whether the
strongest presumption ought not to obtain in favor of the
clear and definite location which Maryland has made;

There has been no acquiescence upon the part of Maryland
in the occupation or possession by West Virginia of any part
of the territory embraced in the charter of Lord Baltimore in
dispute in this case.
A State cannot be deprived of its territory by mere lapse of
time or by mere occupancy, when all the while such State has
challenged and denied the right of the invading party and repeatedly and persistently declared her own rights and when
the right of such invasion and occupancy is universally regarded and again and again asserted to be an open, unsettled
and pending question. Certainly down to 1859 Virginia recognized that the dispute was still pending and that the rights of
both parties were the subject of negotiation and settlement.
The Michler line was then run for the purpose of bringing the
matter to a final determination. The failure of Virginia to
ratify the work of Lieutenant Michler and establish the line
run by him as the boundary between the two States left the
controversy as it before stood and remitted Maryland to her

charter rights.
There was no legal ratification by the act of 1860 or acquiescence by Maryland in any settlement or boundary. Doddridge
v. Thompson, 9 Wheat. 476, 479; and see act of Congress of
March, 1804; Reynolds v. M'Arthur, 2 Pet. 417; Acts of West
Virginia of 1868, ch. 175, and of May 3, 1887.
It was only three years after that act was passed that this
suit was instituted in this court by the Honorable William
Pinkney Whyte, then Attorney-General of Maryland. In no
instance has this court held that the doctrine of acquiescence
can be invoked or applied where the boundary between the
two States has all the time before the filing of suit in this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff.

217 U. S.

been recognized by both of the States concerned as unsettled
and subject to future determination, and pending between two
States, and is so mutually regarded and acknowledged by
them, and neither can be held to have abandoned her rights
to the other, nor to have acquiesced in the claims of the other,
nor to have either lost or acquired title by acquiescence or
prescription, which, according to every writer on public and
international law, is founded upon a presumed abandonment
of right, and cannot arise where presumption of abandonment
is rebutted and negatived by open and express declarations
to the contrary. Vattel, Chitty's ed., bk. II, ch. 11, par. 139;
Marten's Law of Nations, bk. II, ch. iii, § 1, title "Law of
Nature and Nations," in law bk. IV, ch. 12, §4; 22 Cyc.
sub-title "Prescription," 1728; Oppenheim, Int. Law, V. I,
§243; Heimburger, p. 151; 1 Moore's Int. Law Dig., § 107,
p. 466.
The claim of adverse possession cannot prevail, as upon the
face of the record itself, as made up by defendant, there is a
clear recognition of the right of the plaintiff to grant title, and
through its grantees and those claiming under them, to hold
possession of land west of such a line or lines. Adverse possession, iii order to be effectual, must be exclusive. Beatty v.
Mason, 30 Maryland, 409; Armstrong v. Risteau, 5 Maryland,
256; Baker v. Swan, 32 Maryland, 355, and cases cited on
p. 359; Robinson v. Minor, 10 How. 643; Pool v. Fleeger, 11
Pet. 210; Henderson v. fPoindexter, 12 Wheat. 530; 5 Cyc.
title "Boundaries," p. 930.
The land between Fairfax and Potomac meridians is one
entire and indivisible. If the patentee of a trct and those
claiming sunder him can refer their holding and possession to
the title derived from the State of Maryland, an unassailable
case of mixed possession will be made out, and when two are
in mixed possession of the same traet of land, the law considers him having the title as in po- .*ssion to the extent of his
rights. Cheney v. Ringgold, 2 H. & J 84; Lowell v. Stephens, 2
McCrary, 311; so where there is joint possession by the legal

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff.

owner and claimant by possession at any time within the
statutory period, the running of the statute will be arrested.
Henderson v. Griffin, 5 Pet. 151; Hall v. Powell, 4 S. & R. 456;
Barr v. Gratz's Heirs, 4 Wheat. 223; Deputron v. Young, 134
U. S. 225; Hunnicutt v. Peyter, 102 U. S. 333.
The State of Maryland claims that it has been established:
I. That the true construction of the grant of territory of the
Maryland charter, as declared by all the authorities who have
discussed it, calls for a meridian line running from the southern boundary of Pennsylvania to the first fountain or source of
the Potomac River as the western boundary of Maryland; and
for a line extending from said first fountain or source along
the southern shore or bank of the Potomac River to the mouth
thereof as the southwestern and southern boundary of the
State.
II. That to adopt the Fairfax Stone as marking the source
or first fountain of the Potomac River would defeat the calls
of the charter for the boundaries above mentioned.
III. That the North Fork of the Potomac River -is clearly
marked by irresistible evidence as the main. stream of the
Potomac River, and that the Potomac Spring, being the source
of the said North Fork, is the first fountain of Potomac River.
IV. That, therefore, the western, southwestern and southern boundaries are properly ascertained by a meridian running
from the Pennsylvania line to the Potomac Spring, and thence
by a line along the southern bank of the stream or river flowing
from said spring, to the mouth of said river.
V. That the controversy between Maryland and West Virginia as to the western and southwestern boundaries of the
former having always been and being still an open, unsettled
and pending question, the rights of Maryland to the boundaries called for by her charter, as above set forth, have not been
forfeited or surrendered by her, and that this Honorable Court
ought not to deprive her of them.
VI. That with. respect to the tract in dispute between the
two States growing out of the unsettled boundary line, Mary-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant.

217 U. S.

land has made such grants and patents of extensive lands
within said tract, and has so been in possession of parts of said
tract as to bar and defeat all possible pretensions upon the
part of West Virginia to an adverse possession of said tract so
in dispute.
VII. That the equity and justice of this case, reinforeing the
law of it, sustain the claims of the State of Maryland.
Mr. George B. Price, with whom Mr. Win. G: Conley, Attorney General of the State of West Virginia, was on the
brief, for the defendant:
The record in this case shows:
First: That the boundaries of Maryland are to be ascertained from the language of the Baltimore charter as applied
to the conditions then existing and to the topography of the
country afterwards ascertained, and by the interpretation
given to it by the King in Council, and subsequent acts of
both parties.
Second: That the charter calls for running from the Delaware Bay in a right line in the fortieth degree of north latitude
to the true meridian or' the first source or fountain of the
Potomac River, thence "tending downward toward the South
to the farther bank of said river and following it to where it
faces the. Western and Southern coast as far as to a certain
place called Sinquak, situate near the mouth of. the same
River, where it discharges itself in the forenamed Bay of
Chessopeak."
Third: That as an original proposition, judging from the
course of the river, the topography of the country and the
size of the branches, the North Branch is the main Potomac
River, and at the head of that branch is to be found the first
source or fountain of the Potomac.
Fourth: That judging from the topography, the size of the
branches and all the circumstances, the spring heads at
which the Fairfax Stone. was planted, are the first source
and fountain of the river, and that if the first source or foun-

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

tain were to be located and established according to present
conditions, these springs could be selected with, more reason
than any other point. •
Fifth: That the question as to the first source or fountain
of the Potomac River was fully investigated and judicially
determined by the only competent tribunal authorized to
determine it, as early as 1746, in the controversy between
Lord Fairfax and the Colony of Virginia, and the Fairfax
Stone was planted in accordance with that determination,
at the first fountain or source of the Potomac.
Sixth: That Lord Baltimore had notice of and was bound
by and fully acquiesced in that decision, and the matter,
therefore, is re8 adjudicft as to him and the State of Maryland.
Seventh: That- the Colony of Virginia asserted and held
jurisdiction of all the territory south and west of the head
spring of the North Branch of the Potomac at the Fairfax
Stone from the date of the decision in 1746 until after the
Revolution, and that the States of Virginia and West Virginia
have held said territory and exercised governmental jurisdiction over it continuously and exclusively to the present
time.
Eighth: That Lord Baltimore declined to take any steps
to reopen the question after the decision in 1746, and that
after the Revolution, although the State of Maryland has
from time to time asserted a claim to go to the head spring
of the South Branch of the Potomac, up to 1852, yet in that
year and after that time she hbandoned this claim, and has
acquiesced in the claim of Virginia and West Virginia that
:the Fairfax Stone is at the first source or fountain of te
Potomac, and that her western boundary line should begin
at that point.
Ninth: That the belated attempt in this suit to fix th
head spring of the North Branch at a point west of the Fairfax
Stone is a creation of Mr. W. McCulloh Brown, the surveyor
appointed in this cause, and is not maintainable upon any
principle of law or equity; that whilst the spring head at

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant.

217 U. S.

which Mr. Brown located the point for running the BrownPotomac meridian is farther west than the spring head where
the Fairfax Stone is located and is on somewhat higher
ground, yet the branch of the stream running from that spring
is not as long nor as large-certainly no larger, than the one
running from the Fairfax Stone, and that at the point where
these prongs branch off, the stream running to the Fairfax
Stone is the straighter stream and has all the appearance of
being the main river.
Tenth: That no claim has ever hdretofore been made that
this Brown-Potomac spring is the first fountain of the Potomac. No line has ever been run from it, and the territoryone and a quarter miles wide and thirty-six miles in length,
lying between the meridian run from this spring and that
run from the Fairfax Stone is completely covered by Virginia
patents settled by Virginia citizens, occupied by hundreds of
farms and some villages, all of whom have, from the earliest
times, adhered to the States of Virginia and West Virginia,
and that Maryland has never exercised or attempted to
exercise any governmental jurisdiction of any kind orer it.
Eleventh: That prior to 1789, whilst at first there was some
confusion in the issuing of patents for lands in that locality
by the States of Virginia and Maryland, Virginia, in some
instances, granting lands east of the due north line run from
the Fairfax Stone, and Maryland granting some lands west
of that line, yet, even before that date, a line had been run
north from the Fairfax Stone and quite a number of Virginia
patents had been granted as bordering upon that line, showing the claim of Virginia to go to that line as her boundary.
And that Maryland had also granted several patents calling
for that line as the boundary line.
Twelfth: In 1789, under the authority of the State of
Maryland to lay out all of her western lands as bounty lands,
Francis Deakins ran what he intended, and evidently believed, to be a due north line from the Fairfax Stone, and
laid out the military lots up to and east of it, so far as the

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

lands had not previously been granted by the State of Maryland; that this line, so established was recognized and acquiesced in by both States from that time in 1789 until 1859,
Maryland never having made a survey for any land west of
the Deakins line between 1789 and 1859, but having made
several grants that called for that line and Virginia having
covered all the territory up to that line by her grants; having
worked the roads, collected the taxes, assessed the lands,
provided free schools for the children and in every other way,
known to law, exercised governmental jurisdiction over the
territory.
Thirteenth: That all of the territory west of this old line,
which had been embraced within the old Maryland grants,
based on surveys made prior to 1789, was afterwards taken
up and covered by Virginia patents and has been so held
under said patents ever since, with the single exception of
about one-half of the Elder Spring tract of 411 acres,-onehalf of which is now assessed and held as being in West
Virginia and the other half assessed and taxes paid upon it
in Maryland; two persons living upon it claiming Maryland
as their residence and voting in Garrett County, but it is
covered by a Virginia patent; that with the exception of these
two persons and of Ethbell Falkenstein, who has recently
attempted to change his allegiance to the State of Maryland,
all the other citizens and residents of this territory, up to this
old line, have always held their allegiance to and recognized
the government of Virginia and West Virginia. That between
1789 and 1859 Maryland in various ways by patents, etc.,
recognized the Deakins line.
Fourteenth: That for some reason, not fully explained,
this old boundary line is not a continuous straight line,, but
is broken by offsets therein, but that it is well defined on the
ground and recognized by the inhabitants, and many points in
it have been located and established both by Mr. Browp, the
surveyor on behalf of Maryland, and Mr. Monroe, surveyor
on behalf of West Virginia, and by the evidence in the cause,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant.

217 U. S.

so that there is no difficulty in locating and establishing it as
it has always been held and claimed, and is still held and
claimed by the citizens on both sides.
Fifteenth: That this old line does not run in a due north
course from the Fairfax Stone, but verges to the right of the
true meridian, and by reason of this divergence and of the
offsets above mentioned, it reaches the Pennsylvania line
about three-quarters of a mile east of the true meridian; that
the Michler line, run under the direction of the commissioners
of Virginia and Maryland in 1859, by careful astronomical
and scientific observations, is practically a due north line
from the Fairfax Stone to the Pennsylvania line, although
Dr. Bauer's report in this case attempts to show that there
is some variations in it from the due north line; that the
commissioners, under whose direction the Michler line was
run, were not authorized to establish a new boundary line,
but only to trace out, locate and establish the old line already
existing, and that because this was not done, a considerable
part of the territory occupied by Virginia and held under her
titles, was left out and thrown on the Maryland side; and
because Maryland refused to recognize and protect these
titles, Virginia and West Virginia did not ratify or adopt this
Michler line, but continued to hold to the old line and have
so held ever since.
The court does not act differently in deciding on boundary
between States than on lines between separate tracts of land.
If there is uncertainty where the line is, if there is a confusion
of the boundaries by the nature of interlocking grants, the
obliteration of marks, the intermixing of possession under
different proprietors, the effects of accident, fraud or time, or
other kindred causes, it is a case appropriate to equity. An
issue at law is directed, a commission of boundary awarded,
or, if the court is satisfied without either, it decrees what
and where the boundary of a farm, a manor, a province or a
State is and shall be. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet.
658, 734, 738; S. C., 4 How. 628; and see 1 Ves. Sen, 448-450.

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U.S.

Argument for Defendant.

A boundary established and fixed by compact between
nations becomes conclusive upon all the subjects and citizens
thereof and binds their rights and is to be treated, to all
intents and purposes, as the true real boundary. The construction of such a compact is a judicial question, and this
doctrine applies to the settlement of the boundary between
two States of the Union by compact between such States.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Virginia v.
Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall.
39.
That possession, cr as it is called in books on international
law, usu caption, for a long period of time is the best evidence
of a national right. Vattel, 187, 191, etc.
Possession for a great many (more than one hundred)
years becomes a rightful one by prescription, even if it had
begun in wrong and injustice. The acquiescence of the
adjoining State for such a lapse of time would be conclusive
evidence that she assented to the possession-thus held and
had determined to relinquish her claim. Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts,14 Pet. 260, 261; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
4 How. 590, 591; Louisiana v. Mississippi,202 U. S. 1.
Long acquiescence in the possession of territory and in the
exercise of dominion and sovereignty over it, is conclusive
of the nation's title and rightful authority. Indiana v.
Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479.
Independently of any effect due to the compact as such,
a boundary line between States or provinces, as between
private persons, which has been run out, located, marked
upon the earth and afterwards recognized and acquiesced
iii by the parties for a long course of years, is conclusive,
even if it be ascertained tha it varies somewhat from the
courses given in the original grant, and the line so established, takes effect not as an alienation of territory, but as a
definition of the true and ancient boundary. Virginia v.
Tennessee, opiriion of Mr. Justice Field, p. 522; citing Penn v.
Ld. Baltimorg, 1 Ves. Sen. 444-448; Boyd v. Graves, 4 Wheat.
VOL. ccxvii-2

18

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant.

217 U. 0.

513; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; United States
v. Stone, 2 "Will.. 525, 537; Kellog:v. Smith, 7j Cush. 375,
382;-j'henery v. Walthdm 8 Cushf. 327; Hunt, Boundaries, 3d
ed.,'306; Indiana v. Kentucky, -136 U. S.'479, -51.6; Rhode
Island'v. Massa usetis, 4 How. 591, 639; Vattel, Law of
Nati6ns, bk. 2, ch. 11, : 149; Whetn onit nt. Law, pt, 2,
ch.: 4,'. 164.
in Virg-nia v. Tennessee, 148 U.* S. 524, it was held that an
agreement, for. the *ppointment of commissioners to run and
mark the boundary line between the'States, did n6t require
the approval of Congress, under the Constitution; that such
a Pproal was not nece ssary until the States!had pased upon
the rort of the commissioners, :ratified their action and
mutually declared the boundariy established by them to be
the true and, real' boundary betweenrthe States, and that the
consent of CongresS to this finial compact may be either
express r inplied.p And the Assent of Congress is implied
from .l'efact that*in the laying out of Federal Judicial and
i'eveiue districts, and in the hoiding of Federal elections the
line' .so'agreed upon has been adopted and. conformed to by
Conrgresand the Fedeial Government.. These are held to be
of Congress may be
which thu consent
facts from
sufficient
:. .. :
:
" : : :: ..
implied.; : "::
s
in a case of disi ut.ed boundary between, two
Thicourt,
States of the Union, has jurisdichtion and power not to make
a boundary, not to create a, neAline, aut only to ascertain
from- the evidence before it, Ivhat ,s the r'.,Ya and true boundary
between siich States,' and, whf : ascert~i ned, to establish it
A.r,,!r,1p*at'aor agreement
by Ilfinal decree. If there hnF
between the States,: settling ad fixh,'i:- trc boundary between them, this court will recognize an. uyjhcid such compact 'and establish the boudary a,',ording to it construction
tnnessee, 148
of the language of the compact. Virgi;i v.
U. S. 503; Poole v. Fleeger 11 Pet. 185.
The. existence of a compact C' agyce'c"ont, between the
States may be established by3ay evid. 'e fhat satisfies the

MARYLAND v. WEST :VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

mind of the court. A compact may be proven by the doctrine
of estoppel.
Independently of any' such compact, a, boundary line
between States, which has been run out, located and marked
upon the earth, and fterwards recognizedand acquiesced in
by the parties for a long course of years, is, conclusive, even
fit be ascertained that'it varies somewhat from the courses,
given fikthe-original grant.:
Where a line has been once run -and has afterwards been
acquiesced in for a long -number of years by two States, the
court will establish it, although' it variesfrom the original
course in the charter, and although it may not be a .straight'
or uniform line. : :All that the -court requires is to be satisfied
as to the location of the old line. Then it establishes-it-as final.
This is. not only the rule between States, but it has always
been the rule between individuals when establishing: a boundary line;. Bartlett &c. Co. V. Saunders) 103 U. S.: 316; Mcvrs, Lessbe, v. Walker; 9 Crancl', 173; -. C.; 4 Wheat.. 444;,
Newsome v. Pryor,7 Wheat. 7; Cavazo&sv. Tr0virio, 6 Wall. 773.
Owners of adjacent, tracts of land are not bound by consent
to a boundary -which has been defined under a .mistaken
apprehension that, it is the true. line,: iwherever. it may. be:
found; nor in such. case is the party- precluded or: estopped;
from claiming his owp.rights under the -true one-when discovered. &ehraeder,Mining. &. Co. v. Packer, 129 U. S.
688; Hatfield v. Workman, 35 W. Va. .578. But it is also
held' in the same cases that where: a boundary line 'has been
fixed as a settlement of a disputed boundary and posses-;
sion taken and held in accordance with. such settlement, the
parties are bound by it, although 'the agreement of settlement
is merely oral. Such parol agreement: is not regarded as
passing any land from one proprietor to the other, but as
simply ascertaining the line to which their respective deeds
extend. See also Gwynn v. Schwartz, 32 W. Va. 487, 488, 500;
Le Compte v. Freshwater,56 W. Va. 336.
Long acquiescence by one adjoining proprietor in i bound-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant.

217 U. S.

ary, as established by the other, is evidence of an agreement
that such is the boundary. Snead v. Osborne, 25 California,
626; Kip v. Norton, 12 Wend. 127; Jackson v. Ogden, 7 Johns.
338; Jackson v. Freer, 17 Johns. 29; McCormick v. Barnam,
10 Wend. 104; Dibble v. Rogers, 13 Wend. 536; Adams v.
Rockwell, 16 Wend. 285; Van Wick v. Wright, 18 Wend. 157;
Boyd's Lessee v. Graves, 4 Wheat. 513; Kellogg v. Smith, 7
Cush. 375; Jackson v. Bowen, 1 Caines, 358-362; Jackson v.
Dysling, 2 Caines, 198-200.
The action of a few isolated individuals cannot: have the
effect to prevent the State of West Virginia from getting the
benefit of the doctrine of long continued possession and
exercise of jurisdiction and governmental authority. Virginia
v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 527.
In a great controversy like this, where thousands of acres
of land are involved and the rights of hundreds of people, the
adverse attitude of two people claiming about 200 acres of
land out of 8,000 or more cannot prevent the application of
legal and equitable principles usual in such cases for the
settlement of a controversy. De minimis lex non curat.
Great injury and loss would be inflicted upon the inhabitants living between the Deakins and the Michler lines if the
Michler line should be established.
See Coffee v. Groover, 123 U. S. 1, under which case if the
Michler line should be established as the true boundary line
between the States, all the titles granted by Virginia east of
that line will be void; that is to say, none of the several hundred inhabitants that live in that territory now, except two or
three, will have any valid title to the lands which they occupy
and which, in many instances, have been occupied by them
and their predecessors in title for very many years; whilst
the holders and claimants under the Maryland patents, which
have been taken out simply to cover these lands and under
which no possession or exercise of right has been had, will
have the rightful legal title to these lands and will be able
to turn the inhabitants now living there out of house and

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

home as the result of the decision of this question. This result
would be so disastrous, would rend so many home ties, break
up tender associations and violateso many of the most tender
sentiments of the human heart and cause such great suffering

and loss that we feel sure this court will not render such a
decision unless there is no escape from it under the principles
of law and equity.
The north bank of the Potomac is the boundary line, and
not the south bank.
West Virginia claims and insists that the boundary line
between her and the State of Maryland is the line of lowwater-mark on the north bank of the Potomac River, from
the division line between Virginia and West Virginia to the
head spring of the North Branch of the Potomac, the Fairfax
Stone, and thence running from said Fairfax Stone by the
old Deakins line to the Pennsylvania line.
When the charter of Maryland was granted it is manifest
that it was believed that the head spring of the Potomac
River was north of the fortieth degree parallel.
An instrument will be construed according to the facts
and circumstances and the knowledge and information :of
the parties to it at the time, so as to get at their intention and
understanding. If the Maryland charter is construed in this
way in the light of the knowledge of the parties to it at the
time, then the boundary line was to run on the north, and
not on the south bank of the Potomac River to the Chesapeake
Bay.
The early and almost contemporary construction which
was given to the Mxyland charter by the King of England
shows that it was understood by the King and his Council
that the Potomac River had not been granted to Lord Baltimore by charter granted by Charles I. King Charles II, in
1649, in his grant of the northern, neck of Virginia to the
Earl of St. Albans and others, which was confirmed in 1663,
granted the Potomac River and all the islands within its
banks.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S3.

The treaty of peace between Great Britain and France,
concluded in Paris February 10, 1763, fixed the boundaries
of the several provinces of the :respective sovereignties in
America. The English maps: made under that treaty show
that the boundary line between Maryland and Virginia was
distinctly laid down on the left, or the northern bank of the
Potomac River.
Mitchell's map, which was made with the lapprobation and
at the request of the Lords Commissioners for Trade :and Plantation, .1750,: published in 1755, shows the ,boundary line to
be on the .north'.bank of the: Potomac.
The Virginia. charters were cancelled under quo warranw
proceedings,. and the colonies :became crown colonies, but
her boundaries and jurisdiction were unaffected thereby and
fully preserved. . Lord. Baltimore never -regained the territory
taken by Penn off the northern boundary. He never regained
the territory included within. the, province of Delaware, and
there-is nbthing to indicate that'he ever regAined the Potomac
River after its grant -to Lord' Hopton and after the settlement
with the parliamentary commfissioners.
The King. of; Great Britain and 'his Council had absolute;
authority andi control ovei, the Amerieanrc"olonies' before the
American Revolution and:could change theii'limits and jurisdiction at: his :royal -pleasure. - It was, therefore, entirely
within the power .of Charles II -to grant!the -Potomac: River to
Lord Hopton, as he did, although it may have been embraced
within the limits of the charter previously granted to Lord
Baltimore.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case originates in a bill filed by the State of Maryland
October 12, 1891, against the State of West Virginia, invoking
the original jurisdiction of this court conferred by the Constitution for the settlement of controversies: between States.

At its January session of 1890 the General Assembly of the

MARYLAND .v.-_WEST VIRGINIA.
217. U. I.

Opinion of the Court;

State of Maryland. passed an act. authorizing and directing
itp.Attorney General to take such steps as might be necessary
to obtain &decision of the Supreme.Court of the United States
which would settle the controversy between the :States :of
Maryland., ad: ,West, Virginia-:concerning,.the true location
of .that porion of .the bouudary. line between the -two States
lying between Garrett County, Maryland! and Preston County,
Ws

Tirgnia.:

:Prstou'County Wset Virginia, ws erected out of Monongaliap County, -Virgilia, in the -year.,1818.,, Garrett County
Mwryland,
!aS
erected out of the western portion of, All1
g4y ,CountyIderclpter 21- of the ,Aots:of.- the .General
Assembly of the State of Maryland of 1872.
The boundary in.controversy.runs between the.two States
from the; headwaters of the P,otomac to the Pennsylvania
rh. bi of.complaint .states the. foundation of the Maryland
title-to .besthe , harter granted. o ,June 20, 1632,..by King
Charles. Iof EngtAnd to Cecilius ,CqWert,.Baron ofBaltimore?
al:rightq under which, it is avenred have ted in the corpla".na t, he State of MarylaKd. -Virgiia it -ialleged; ,by
he)r 'r.t con.tittio of June ;29,..17,6,:dilained all .rights
to .propet ,yjUriicti .and g.vpnet over:, the. terntory
described ,in.,the charrof Maryland andthe, other'olonies.
"'; .,
in the 'followlogtermus:.,
"The territories. contained4within the charters erecting the
colonies of1arylaid,, Pex)nsyvania, North.4ndSouth Caro-.
lia, are hereby: ceded, released and forever confirmed to the
people of those colonies respectiyely,; -with all: the 'rights of
property, jurisdiction and government, and all other rights.
whatooever, which might, :at, any time heretofore, have been
claimed by. Virginia, except the free navigation and use of.the
rivers Potouw
Pokomoke, with the.property of the
Virginia: shores or strands bordering on either of the said
rivers,, and alJ, improvements which have been or shall be
made thereon."
.and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The bill also recites complainant's title to the South Branch
of the Potomac River. It avers -he failure to settle the true
location of the boundary line in dispute with West Virginia,
which State succeeded to the rights and title of Virginia.
The bill charges that the State of West Virginia is wrongly
in possession of and exercising jurisdiction over a large part
of the territory rightfully belonging to Maryland; that the
true line of the western boundary of Maryland is a meridian
running south to the first or most distant fountain of the
Potomac River, and that such true line is several miles south
and west of the line which the State of West Virginia claims,
and over which she has attempted to exercise territorial
jurisdiction.
The State of West Virginia filed an answer and cross bill,
in which she sets up her claim concerning the boundary in
dispute between the States, and says that the true boundary
line, long recognized and established, is the one known as the
"Deakins" line, and in the answer and cross bill she prays
to have that line established as the true line between the
States. She also alleges in her cross bill that the north bank
of the Potomac River from above Harpers Ferry to what is
known as the Fairfax Stone is the true boundary between
the States; that West Virginia should be awarded jurisdiction
over that portion of the river to the north bank thereof.
There is much documentary and other evidence in the
record bearing upon the contention that the South Branch
of the Potomac River is the true southern boundary of Maryland, but in the briefs and arguments made on behalf of
Maryland in this case the claim for the South Branch of the
Potomac as the true boundary is not pressed and the controversy is narrowed to the differences in the location of the
boundary, taking the North Branch of the Potomac River
as the true southern boundary line of Maryland.
As we have already said, the contention of the State of
Maryland is rested upon the construction of the charter
granted by King Charles I, June 20, 1632, to Lord Baltimore.

MARYLAND V. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The part of the charter necessary to consider is here given in
the original Latin, and the translation thereof, as the same
is contended for in the brief filed for the State of Maryland:
Western and Southern Boundaries, which calls are as follows,
to wit:
Transuendo a dicto mstufrio
Going from the said estuvocato Delaware Bay recta ary called Delaware Bay in a
linea per gradum proedictum right line in the degree aforeusque ad verum Meridianum said to the true meridian of
primi Fontis Fluminis de the first fountain of the river
Pottomack deinde vergendo Potomac, then tending downversus Meridiem ad ulterio- ward towards the south to the
rem dicti Fluminis Ripam et farther bank of the said river
earn sequendo qua Plaga oc- and following it to where it
cidentalis ad Meridianalis [qu. faces the western +and southplagam occidentalem et meri- ern *coasts as far as to a cerdianalem] spectat usque .ad tain place called Cinquack
Locum quendam appelatum situate near the mouth of the
Cinquack prope ejusdem Flu- same river where it discharges
minis Ostium scituatum ubi itself in the aforenamed bay
in prefatum Sinum de Ches- of Chesapeake and thence by
sopeake evolvitur ac inde per the shortest line as far as the
Lineam brevissimam usque aforesaid promontory or place
ad praedictum Promontorium called Watkin's Point.
sive Locum vocatum Watkin's Point.

There is some difference in the record as to the true Latin
text and the translation thereof. For our purpose it is Aufficient to consider that presented by the State of Maryland in
the language above bet forth. It is to be observed that the
purpose of this part of the grant was to locate the northern
line of the State of Maryland from Delaware Bay "to the
true meridian of the first fountain of the river Potomac, then
tending downward towards the south to the farther bank of
said river, and following it to where it faces the western and

OCTOBER TERM,1909.
Opinion of theCourt.

217 U. S.

southern coasts as -far as to certain place called Cinquack,"
etc.
It is the contention of the State of Maryland that the controversy between her and the State of West Virginia is
narrowed to a proper location of the true meridian from the
first fountain head of the Potomac River, which, being located,
will effectually settle the boundary line in dispute. The
claim of the State of Maryland may be further illustrated by
a consideration of the plate exhibited in the brief filed in
behalf of that State,: which is herewith given.
It is to be'noted4 in considering this plate that the north
and south line ati the left is called'the Ptomac meridian,
running from a certain point designated as the Potomac
Stone.- It is insisted for the State of Maryland that the spring
at this point most nearly fulfills the terms of the Lord Baltimore charter, in that it properly locates the true meridian
of the first fountain head of the Potomac River, and following
it according to the description in the grant, embraces said
river to its farther bank as the true boundary of Maryland.
•On the other-hand, West Virginia contends that the true
head of the river Potomac is at the Fairfax Stone, and that
the boundary should be located by a line from' the spring at
that: point; and' that-'such has long been the ' recognized
boundary line betweenr Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland.
The distance 'from ' the' Fairfax meridian to the Potomac
meridian is about one and one-fourth miles, and the distance
to the Pennsylvania line about thirty-seven miles.
:It may be true that the meridian. line from the Potomac
Stone, in the light of what is now known of that region of
country, more fully answers the calls in the original charter
than does a meridian line starting from the Fairfax Stone.
But it is to be remembered that the grant to Lord Baltimore
was made when the region of the country intended to be conveyed was little known, Was wild and uninhabited, had never
been surveyed or .charted, and the location of the upper part
of the Potomac River was only a matter of conjecture.

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is said, and the record tends to show, that the only map:
of the country then known• to be in existence was one pre-.
.Plate No.- 1.

IROI NIA

S'TONE

forth by the
Plaintiff.

pared and published by Captain John Smith, upon which
only a very small part of the Potrnac River is shown, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

from which we get no light as to the true source and course
of the upper reaches of the Potomac River. The so-called
Potomac Stone was neither set nor located until 1897, six
years after the beginning of this suit, when it was put in place
by the surveyor in this case on the part of the State of Maryland. He then set a monument designated as the "Potomac
Stone," and gave the name Potomac to the spring at the origin of that fork of the Potomac River. The so-called Potomac
meridian was run by the same engineer, located and named
by him in the year 1897.
The Fairfax Stone, which is shown at the beginning of the
north and south line in plate No. 1, has a history and importance in this case which renders it necessary to note something of its origin and location. Without going into a history
of the prior grants in Virginia, we come directly to the one
bearing upon this case. It was made in September, 1688, by
King James II of England, for the Northern Neck of Virginia
to Thomas (Lord) Culpeper, which subsequently became the
property of Lord Fairfax, and is usually spoken of as the
Fairfax grant. *That grant was under consideration in this
court in the case of Morris v. The United States, 174 U. S. 198,
a case to which we shall have occasion to refer later, and from
page 223 of that report we take a description of so much of
the grant as is necessary to a consideration of this cause. The
Northern Neck of Virginia is described in that grant as follows:
"All that entire tract, territory or parcel of land situate,
lying and being in Virginia in America, and bounded by and
within the first heads or springs of the rivers of Tappahannock
als. Rappahannock and Quiriough als. Patawomerck Rivers,
the courses of said rivers from their said first heads or springs,
as they are commonly called and known by the inhabitants
and description of those parts and the bay of Chesapeake, together with the said rivers themselves and all the islands
within the outermost banks thereof, and the soil of all and
singular the premises, and all lands, woods, underwoods,
timber and trees, wayes, mountains, swamps, marshes,

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

watercourses, fishings,
waters, rivers, ponds, pools, lakes,
streams, havens, ports, harbours, bays, creeks, ferries, with
all sorts of fish, as well whales, sturgeons and other royal
fish, . . . Tohave, hold and enjoy all the said entire tract,
territory or portion of land, and every part and parcel
thereof, . . . to the said Thomas, Lord Culpeper, his
heirs and assigns forever."
The tcrritory embraced in this Northern Neck became
subject to the jurisdiction and dominion of Virginia and the
boundary lines fixed for it become important in determining
the true boundary between Virginia and adjoining States.
In the grant to Lord Culpeper the tract is described as lying in Virginia in America, and bounded by and within the
first heads or springs of the rivers Rappahannock and Patowmack. Disputes having arisen between the Governor and
Council of Virginia and Lord Fairfax, touching the true boundary of the grant, an order was made on November 29, 1733,
by the King in Council, reciting that Lord Fairfax had petitioned for an order to settle the boundaries of his tract, and
for a commission to issue, run out and ascertain the boundaries of the same. The King granted an order, and thereafter
the Governor of Virginia on September 7, 1736, appointed
certain commissioners to act for the colony of Virginia in the
matter; Lord Fairfax appointed certain commissioners to act
on his behalf.
The instructions to the commissioners required them to
make a clearer description of the boundaries in controversy,
to make exact maps of the rivers Rappahannock and Potomac, and the branches thereof to the head or spring, socalled or known, and the surveys made by them with correct
maps thereof to be laid before His Majesty. The commission
adopted the North Branch of the Potomac River, then known
as the Cohaungoruton, and after further proceedings, which
are not necessary to recite in detail, and after a reference to
the Lords of Trade and Plantations, a report was made which,
among other things, stated that a line run from the first head

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
O0pinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

or spring of the south or main branch of the Rappahannock
'River to the first head or spring of the Potomac River is, and
ought to be, the boundary line determining the tract or territory of land commonly called the Northern Neck. qi1timately the matter was laid before the King in Council, and
commissioners were appointed to mark and run the line between the head spring of the rivers Rappahannock and Potomac, and the stone called the Fairfax Stone was planted in
September,: 1746,-at the head spring of the Potomac River.
In 1748 the location of the stone was approved by the Virginia
assembly and the zKing in Council. This Fairfax Stone has
been an important monument in settling and establishing
boundaries since that time,
It Was; found %stillin .plaee in 1859 by Lieutenant Michler,
who made-a survey on-behalf of-the boundary commissioners
ofMrylatid and: Virginia, to which we shall have occasion to
refer later on. Inhis report Lieutenant Micliler describes the
:stoheas,fotlows:
,..The; initial point of: the work, the oft-mentioned, oft.spokdn ,6f 'Fairfaxl Stone,' stands on a spot encircled by several-emall.strearisgflowing from the springs about it. It conists :of ia, ough ipiee ' of sandstone indifferent and friable,
plantEd,~~'t~o ~a~ph of:a few .feet in the ground and rising a
foot oru moreabove the surface.-: Shapeless in form, it would
scarcely attract the attention of the passerby. The finding
16f it asJ without difficulty and its recognition and identifica-tiofnf 'by the inscription.' Ffx,' now, almost obliterated by the
ebrmding action.of water and air" ' - ....
., Without, stoppihg to mention the 'cases in which Virginia
has recognized'thisrmonument in creating counties and otherwiseit'is tobe noted that 'it wasM-!recognized as a boundary
point by the-Statenof Marylsn. in-ereeting Garrett County,
th ,boundarybetween which and.Preston.County, West Vir1ginigt,, , was theiurpose of:the-act ofthe -legislature of Maryl and,,to! have settled by the-filing o0f'the,,bill,. nd proceedings
ixxtbhapreseunt uaSe

MARYLAND v. WAST VlRqINIA.
217 U. S.

Qpinion of the Court.

By the constitution of Maryland of 1851 it is provided
(article 8, § 2):
"When that part. of. Alleghany County- lying south and
west of a line beginning at the summit of Big BaO Bone or
Savage Mountain where that mountain iscrossed by Mafon
and Dixon's line, and running thence by.4 §traight,,line to the
middle of Savage River where it empties into the. Potomac
River, thence by a straight line to thip )earest point or boundary of the State of Virginia, theoce with said boundary to the
Fairfax Stone, 'shall contain a population .of ten thousand,
and if the majority of :the electors thorcof shaildeire to selj
arate and forina new county and make known their desire by
petitiofi to the legislature, the legislature shall direct, at ttho
next succeeo
eleption, that the judges halJ ,open a book
pg
at each election district in said part of Alleghany Coupty-and
have recorded therein, the vote of each elector 'fqr, or, against,!
a new countj . In case the majorityare Pfjvorn thez said
part of 4lleghgny COu.ty to be deqlarpd, )an inidependent
county, and te inhab tants whreorf shallJhave and -eijoy
all such rights and privileges as are h!old at4-enjoyed by the
inhabitants of the other counties in this State."
In the act of .872. creatipg Garrett Coujity, it is: provided:
"That all hat part. of Alleghany Couttyj.] ying.Southi-and
west of a linl.beginping at,the summit, of Big Baek. Bone, or:
Savage Mouiltain w ere tat -mountain, ir -rossed: by, Mason
and Dixon's line, and running thence by n straight line to th
middle of Savage River where it empties ,into-the Potmaq
River; thence)by.,ai tpghtline to the nearest point or boundary of the $t4eqof.}Vest.Virginia; then witlp.the maid, boundory.
to the Fairfax,$ toc shall be a new epunty, to be called th
county of Garrett, proidpd," etc.It appears thatl.no.tinfrequenit attempt, have been read to
settle the coitrovqesy, between the Statqs now -at the b , of
this court.., 4tl 0,Ya r .' 17951:1801
: and A810 qertin c€omr
missioners were provided for by the State of Maryland tqlmnetcommissioners to bq appointed ,by, the State9f -Virgii.:-with

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

power to adjust the boundary between the southern and
western limits of the State of Maryland and the dividing line
between it and Virginia. Nothing seems to have come of
these attempts.
In 1818 the State of 1Maryland passed an act proposing to
Virginia the appointment of a commission, to run a line from
the most western source of the North Branch of the Potomac.
In February, 1822, the legislature of Virginia expressed its
willingn*ess to appoint commissioners, who were to locate the
western boundary by a stone located by Lord Fairfax at the
headwaters of the Potomac River. The commissioners met,
but the divergency in their instructions prevented any action
In 1825 Maryland passed an act for the settlement of 'the
boundary, providing that the Governor of Delaware should
act as umpire. In 1833 Virginia passed an act providing for
commissioners to run the lines from the Fairfax Stone, or, at
the! first fountain of the Cohangoruton" or North Branch of
the Potomac River. In defati!t of Maryland appointing commissioners, Virginia commissioners were to run and mark the
line.
In October, 1834, the State of Maryland filed a bill in this
court against the State of Virginia, which bill was subsequently dismissed without any action being taken thereon.
In 1859 a line was run by Lieutenant Michler, of the United
States Topographical Engineers, to which we shall have occasion to refer more in detail later on.
By an act of 1781 the State of Maryland appropriated land
within the State in Washington County west of Fort Cumberland, with certain exceptions, to discharge the engagements of the State to the officers and soldiers thereof, and, by
a resolution passed in April, 1787, the Governor and Council
were requested "to appoint and employ some skilful person
to lay out the manors,. and such parts of the reserve and vacant lands, belonging to this State, lying to the west of Fort
Cumberland, as he may think fit and capable of being settled

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

and improved, in lots of fifty acres each, bounded by a fixed
beginning and four lines only, unless on the sides adjoining
elder surveys; that the beginning of each lot be marked with
marking irons, or otherwise, with the number thereof, and
that a fair book of such surveys, describing the beginning
of each lot by its situation, as well as number, be returned
and laid before the next general assembly."
Under this resolution Francis Deakins was appointed to
make the survey, and, in 1788, an act of the general assembly
of Maryland was passed. It reads, in part, as follows:
"And whereas, in pursuance of a resolve of the general
assembly, at April session, seventeen hundred and eightyseven, authorizing the governor and council to appoint and
employ some skilful person to lay out the manors, and such
parts of the reserves and vacant land belonging to this State,
lying to the westward of Fort Cumberland, as be might think
fit and capable of being settled and improved, in lots of fifty
acres each, Francis Deakins was appointed and employed by
the governor and council for that purpose, and has finished
the said survey, and has returned a general plot of the county
westward of Fort. Cumberland, on which four thousand one
hundred and sixty-five lots of fifty acres each are laid off,
besides sundry tracts which have been patented, distinguishing on the plot those lots which have been settled and improved from those which remain uncultivated; and the said
Francis Deakins has also returned two books, entitled A and
B, in which are entered certificates of all of the lots before
mentioned."
And further enacted that 2,575 of the aforesaid lots were
contained in the following limits: "Beginning. at the mouth
of Savage River and running with the North Branch of the
Potomac River to the head thereof, then with the present
supposed boundary line of Maryliand until the intersection
of an east line to be drawn from said boundary line with a
north course from the mouth of Savage River, will include
the number of lots aforesaid to be distributed by lot among
voi. ccxvI-3

OTBEO

TERM,

Opinion.of th.Leourt.

909,
217 U, B.

the said soldiers and recruiting officers, and their. leg4.reprsentatives," etc.And it further provides that lots granted to oficers should
be adjacent- to those distributed to the soldiers,.within -the
fpllowing, limits: "By extendilg the aforesaidv north course
from the mouth of Savage River, until its intersection with
an east line to be drawn from the aforesaid supposed boundary
line of Maryland . will include. the necessary .4umber allowing
to each officer or his representatives four,lots aforesaid.".
The act also contains tjie f4llowing language;
"And be it enacted, that the.line to.which the said kFrancis
l
aid jp4, is in the opinion of tho genI)eakins has laid out :the
eral asserebly, ,far , witlir,tihatwhich this S ta,'ay
rightfully claim as it9 wsern boutdiry.; and: t at a tine of
more leisurep the c) siderations-of the.legislature ought to be
drawn to the westerii boundaries of the, S.tatej, as objects of
very great importance."
Dea kins bfled a: map, wjfich is in evidence, in, tlhis, ease and
wJNhih .. mows a 1aro,,number of lots laid put and also certain
outlines .of deeds- and grant., ,This line -in the briefo and
record5 is sometimes mentioned as having been: run in. 1787,
sometines 178, and.sometimes 1789. In view qf, the act of
1788 the line was-probably run in that year. As in our view
of thecasc,-,ttAe.action ofDeakis in. the loqatioi4 of .this line
alld his evident adoption of the Fairfax Stone as a -starting,
point, is an important featureof this controvqrsy, we insert
Deakins-map put in eviherein:.a tracing fron the or.igin
dence on the part of the State of West Virginia. An ilispection ,of thkis m~p shows ,a north' and south line upon the west

side therf, :ndalso some of the military lots laid out by
l)eakins in:hlbat part of the tract. It is t,b noted that this
north and, south line is marked: "The meridian, line and the
head of theNorth 3ranch of the Potowmak.:Riyer as fixed
by Lord Fairfax." This could mean but one thing, and that
is, a4n attexnpted. meridian line north from th- Fairfax Stone,
located to the Pennsylvania line.

MARYLANDv. WEST VIRGINIA.
'217 U.S .

Opidion of the Court.

We,all have -occasion t6 recur to this line.
In 1852 the legislature of the State of Maryland passed: an
act concerningthe: disputed boundary, which act provides:
"'Whereas',it is' of great itportancethat the western terri-o-torial limit-of the Stat of Maryland be clearly'defined and
her' boumdary be ', ranentlyestablished;and whereas, the
tre location of.tho western-line of Maryland between the
States 'of Maryland a'nd Virginia begintiing at or near the
Fairfax Stone- on the North- Brancli' of the Potomac River,
at or near its source, arid running in a due north'line to-the
SState of Petnsyvabia, s no losVAnd unknown and all the
marks-have bee6i destroyed:by*time or otherwise; and -whereas,
the States of Virginia and Maryland haVe both granted patSents.4o the same itrct46f laud- at 6r'neat the supposed line,
-and assuits of-ejectment- arenow ponding'in the Circuit Court
-of Alleghany:.Coivty,In the State 'of"Maryland, by persons
~holdng nd~r~ :Marylh~d," 'pAtix~ts" agais person. niow- in
possessi6nw and' holding lind utindor patents granted by the
Stat bf-Virginia; 'which taynot be' justly settledwith6ut
establishing said bomndary'lin;:
",T1erform, Seion 1,v B'it,: ftact6d&by-,th6 G ndrai 'As'sembly of Marylawi, tha't the& evnot be and he is retfuedte
.to open a cbrre81ddnee :wjth the' goveif'bf Virginia "in
-relation t6.traoTbgj 'establislhing and iharkiYg 'the isid' line,
rand in 'ease thi lgigslattite of -irghii&dhb'll paitM an'act'rviding' forn the :appontment of a commissioner tO-act in cThjunotiowitWaw-comnissi6ner: on-the part, of, Marylandin'the
r
be and he'is
premiesi thewand' iwnsuch .me;' thegoernor'
hereby authorized and requested,t app6ih'a coifiyissi6ner
who, together with the eomnimioner,'4Wbshell be"hpippitited
'on the' par* bf Virginia;-shall -cause the 'said Tline ito be accurately surveyd trameed ' and 'nMarked r,with gitable- otii.the.'aid1,airfa.'Stohe S nd
iments beginning. -therefor
running then 6e;Ae' tdrth to the line of'th State'of Peonslj:'vani.
YSm, 2. And: beitenacted,; that it-shall :be -th jdiiitldty

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

of the commissioners after running, locating, establishing
and marking the said line, to make a report setting forth all
the facts touching, locating and marking said line; and it
shall be the duty of the commissioner of each respective State
to forward copies of the joint report to each of their respective
legislatures; and upon the ratification of said report by the
State of Virginia and the State of Maryland, through their
respective legislatures, the said boundary lines shall be fixed
and established so to remain forever, unless changed by mutual consent of the two States."
In 1854 the general assembly of Virginia met this -action
upon the part of the State of Maryland, by the passage of an
act, which provides:
"Whereas the general assembly of Maryland has passed
an act for running and marking the boundary line between
that State and the State of Virginia, beginning therefor at
the Fairfax Stone on the Potomac River, sometimes called
the North Branch of the Potomac River at or near the source
and running thence due north to the line of the State of
Pennsylvania; and whereas the legislature of Maryland has
requested the appointment of a commissioner on the part of
this State to act in conjunction with 'the commissioner of
Maryland to run and mark said line: therefore, be it enacted,
"1. That the governor appoint a commissioner who, together with the Maryland commissioner, shall cause the said
line to be accurately surveyed, traced and marked with suitable monuments, beginning therefor at the Fairfax Stone,
situated as aforeaid, and running thence due north to the line
of the State of Pennsylvania."
And the act concludes:
"Upon the ratification of such report by the legislatures of
t~e States of Virginia and Maryland the said boundary line
shall be fixed and established to remain forever, unless
changed by mutual consent of the said States."
Under these acts of the legislatures of the respective States
commissioners were appointed, who made application to the

MARYLAND v. W.EST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of War for the services of an officer of the United
States Engineers to aid the-:ra in carrying out the purposes of
the acts. Upon this application the Secretary of War detailed Lieutenant N. ichler, of the United States Topographical Engineers. As directed in both the acts, Lieutenant Michler commenced his work at the Fairfax Stone, and
ran a line northwardly, marking it at certain places. This
line intersected the Pennsylvania line at a point about threefourths of a mile west from the northern extremity of the
Deakins line, which had been run in 1788, as we have already
stated. There was a triangle between the Deakins and Michler lines, having its apex at the Fairfax Stone, and lines diverging thence, until there was a difference of three-fourths
of a mile at the base of the triangle at the Pennsylvania line.
It appear that the commissioners of the two States differed, the commissioner of Virginia contending that by the
act of the legislature, above referred to, that State had not
adopted the meridian line from the Fairfax Stone as the
boundary. The conuissioner of Maryland contended for that
meridian line. On March 5, 1860, the legislature of Maryland
passed an act adopting the vlichler line, commencing at the
-Fairfax Stone at the head of the North Branch of the Potomac
River, and running thence due north to the southern line of
Pennsylvania, as surveyed in the year 1859 by commissioners
appointed by the States of Maryland and Virginia, and thereafter the State of Maryland provided for the marking of the
line.
Michler
Virginia
did not approve of the Michler line, but in
1887
West Virginia passed an act confirming the line as run by
Lieutenant Michler in 1859 as the true boundary line between
West Virginia and Maryland, but the act was not to take
effect until and unless Maryland should pass an act or acts
confirming and rendering valid all the entries, grants, patents
and titles from the Commonwealth of Virginia to any person,
or persons, to lands situate and lying between the new Maryland line and the old Maryland line heretofore claimed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Virginia and West Virginia, to the same extent and with like
legal effect as though the said old Maryland line was confirmed and established.
The divergence between Michler's line and the line shown
on Deakins' map probably arises from the fact that Lieutenant
Michler ran a true astronomical line, and that his line is a
true north and south line, whereas the Deakins line was probably run with a surveyor's compass, and with less accuracy
than the Michler line.
It is the contention of the State of Maryland that Deakins
never attempted to run a true north and south line; that he
never had any authority from the State of Maryland so to do;
and, that in the act confirming the laying out of the lots by
Deakins it was especially declared by the State of Maryland
that it did not show the.true western boundary of the State;
furthermore, that the attempts which have been made to
trace the Deakins. line show that it is not a true north and
south line, but a broken. line, having offsets in various
placeq.
'The State of Maryland insists that the evidence shows that
a number of old grants made prior to the Deakins survey
would'extend west of the boundary line, as shown either by
Deakins or Michler. It is the contention of the State of Maryland. that when these grants were made she indicated a line
further to the west than either of these lines, and that the
ancient grants of large tracts of land show that fact. But
the evidence contained in this record leaves-no room to doubt
that after the running of the Deakins line the people of that
rejfon knew and referred to it as the line between the State
of Virginia and the State of Maryland. Lieutenant Michler
in the.frank and able report filed with his survey, recognizes.
this situation, for he says:
"The meridian as traced by me last summer differs from
all previous lines run; some varying too far to the east, others
too far to the west. The oldest one, and that generally
adopted by the inhabitants as the boundary line, passes to

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the C.ourt.

the east; and from measurements made to it I found that it
was not very correctly run. The surveyor's compass was
used for' the purpose, and some incorrect variation of the
needle allowed. Owing to the thick and heavy growth of
timber, it is utterly impossible to run a straight line through
it without first opening a line of sight. It could only be approximately done.
"When north of the railroad, and the .nearer the Pennsylvania -line is approached the*settlements and farms .become
more numerous; and if the meridian line is adopted as the
boundary, it will qause great litigation, as the patents of most
of the lands call for the boundary as their limits. On the
Pennsylvania boundary the new line is about three-quarters of
amilewest of the old; on -therailroad-- feet; at Weill's field,
85 feet; on the northwestern turnpike, about. 40 feet, and on
the backbone, about 20 feet."
These recitals from Lieutenant Michler's report, if the
record were lacking in other evidence, would leave little
doubt that there was an old boundary line, geierally adopted,
and that th' adoption of the true meridian line, which Lieutenant Michler ran; would cause great litigation because of
the acquiescence of the people in the old boundary line, the
Deakins line.
The report of the committee of the Maryland Historical
Society, an exhibit in this Case, contains a history of the
boundary dispute, and it is therein said:
"The provisional line of 1787, or 'Deakins line,' as it was
called, had long done duty a* a boundary; and as the State
granted no lands beyond it, it came to be looked upon-despite the emphatic protest of the assembly of 1788, as the true
boundary line of the State. In process of time the marks
became obliterated, and conflicts of title and litigation arose
between the holders of Maryland and the holders of Virginia
patents for lands in the debatable territory.. So in May,. 1852,
the -Maryland legislature passed an act reciting these facts
and requesting the governor to open a correspondence with

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the governor of Virginia about the matter; and authorizing
him to appoint a commissioner, if the legislature of Virginia
would also appoint one, which joint commission should run
and mark a line due north from the Fairfax Stone, which line,
When ratified by both legislatures, should be the boundary
between the States."
The, State of Maryland has herself, in sundry grants,. recognized this old line. In a grant by the State of Maryland for
a tract called "Maryland," dated January 23, 1823, among
other calls is this one: "Running thence south thirty-six degrees west, eighty-six perches to the Virginia and Maryland
Une, as run under the directions of Francis Deakins at the
time of laying out the lots to the westward of Fart Cumberland, and thence running," etc.
In the Deakins description of the first lot north of the Fairfax'Stone the following language is used in describing military
lot No. 1101:
"Beginning at a bounded maple marked 1100, standing
one mile north from a stone fixed by Lord Fairfaxfor the head
of the North Branch of the Powtomack River, and running north
89J perches; east, 89J perches; south, 89J perches; then to
the beginning, containing 50 acres."
This record leaves no doubt as to the truth of the statement
contained in the report of the committee of the Maryland
Historical Society, that the Deakins-lie, before the passage
of the act under which the Michler line" was run, had long
been recognized as a boundary and served as such. Even
after the Michler line was run and marked the testimony
shows that the people generally adhered to the old line as the
true boundary line. There are numerous Virginia grants and
private deeds of land given in the record, which call for this
old Maryland line as the boundary.
The- testimony shows that the people living along the
Deakins line worked and improved the roads on the Virginia
side, as ageneral rule, up to this line. Correspondingly, Maryland worked the roads on the other side of this line. On the

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

west of the line the people paid taxes on their lands in Preston County, West Virginia. They voted in that county and
with rare exceptions regarded themselves as citizens of West
Virginia. As a general rule, the schools established there
were West Virginia schools. The allegiance of nearly all
these people has been given to West Virginia.
It is true there has been more or less contention as to the
true boundary line between these States. Attempts have
been made to settle and adjust the same, s6me of which we
have referred to, and the details of which may be found in the
very interesting 4oeument to which we have already made
reference, the report of the committee of the Maryland Historical Society. In the proposed settlements, for many years,
Virginia and West. Virginia have consistently adhered to the
Fairfax Stone as a starting point for the disputed boundary.
When West Virginia passed the act of 1887, ratifying the
Michler line, it was upon condition that Virginia titles granted
between the Michler line and the old Maryland line should be
validated. Maryland, in the act of 1852, recognized the same
starting point.
And the fact remains that after the Deakins survey in 1788
the people living along the line generally regarded that line
as the boundary line between the States at bar.' In the acts
of the legislatures of the two States, to which we have already
referred, resulting in the survey and running of the Michler
line, it is evident from the language used that the purpose
was not to establish a new line, but to retrace the old one,
and we are strongly inclined to believe that had this been
done at that time the controversy would have been sct,

tled.
A perusal of the record satisfies us that for many years occupation and conveyance of the lands on the Virginia side
has been with reference to the Deakins line as the boundary
line. The people have generally accepted it and have adopted
it, and the facts in this connection cannot be ignored. In
the case of Virginia vr. Tennessee, 148 U. 8. 503, 522, 523,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, had occasion to
make certain comments which are pertinent in this connection, wherein he said:
"Independently of any effect due to the compact as such,
a boundary line between States or provinces, as between
private persons, which has been run out, located and marked
upon the earth, and afterwards recognized and acquiesced
in by the. parties for a long course of years, is conclusive, even
if it be ascertained that it varies somewhat from the courses
given in the original grant; and the line so established takes
effect, not as an alienation of territory, but as a definition
of the true and ancient boundary. - Lord Hardwicke in Penn
v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Vesey Sen. 444, 448; Boyd v..Graves, 4
Wheat. 513; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 734;
United States y. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 537; Kellogg v. Smith, 7
Cush. 375, 382; Chenery v . Waltham, 8 Cush. 327; Hunt on
Boundaries (3d ed.), 396.
"As said by this court in the recent case of the State of
Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479, 510, 'it is a principle of
-public law, univ'esally recognized, that long acquiescence in
the possession of territory, and in the exercise of dominion
and sovereignty over it, is conclusive of the nation's title and
rightful authority.' In the case of Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 4. How. 591, 639, this court, speaking of the long
possession of Massachusetts, and the delays in alleging any
mistake in the action of the commissioners of the colonies,
said: 'Surely this, connected with the lapse of time, must remove all doubts as to the right of the respondent under the
agreements of 1711 and 1718. No human transactions are
unaffected by time. Its influence is seen on all things subject to change. And this is peculiarly the case in regard to
matters which rest in memory, and which consequently fade
with the lapse of time and fall with the lives of individuals.
For the security of rights, whether of States or individuals,
long possession under a claim of title is. protected. And there
is no controversy in which this great principle may be in-

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

yoked with greater justice and propriety than a case of disputed boundary.'"
And quoting from Vattel on the Law of Nations to the
same effect (Q149, p. 190):
"The tranquillity of the people, the.safety of States, the
happiness of the human race do not allow that the possessions,
empire, and other rights of nations should remain uncertain,
subject to dispute and ever ready to occasion bloody wars.
Between nations, therefore, it becomes necessary to admit
prescription founded on length of time as a valid and incontestable title."
And adds from Wheaton on International Law (§ 164,
p. 260):
"The writers on natural law have questioned how far that
peculiar species of presumption, arising from the lapse of
time, which is called prescription,.is justly, applicable as between nation and nation; but the constant and approved
practice of nations shows that by whatever name it be called,
the uninterrupted possession of territory or other property
for a certain length of time by one State excludes the claim
of every other in the same manner, as, by the law of nature
and the municipal code of every civilized nation, a similar
possession by an individual excludes the claim of every other
person to the articles or property in question."
And it was said:
"There are also moral considerations which should prevent
any disturbance of long recognized boundary lines; consideiations springing from regard to the natural sentiments and
affections which grow up for places on which persons have
long resided; the attachments to the country, to home and to
family, on which is based all that is dearest and most valuable in life."
In Louisiana v. Missisippi,202 U. S, 1, 53, this court said:
"The question is one of boundary, and this court has many
times held that, as between the States of the Union, long
acquiescence in the assertion: of a particular boundary and

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the exercise of dominion and sovereignty over the territory
within it, should be accepted as conclusive, whatever the
international rule might be in respect of the acquisition by
prescription of large tracts of country claimed by both."
An application of these principles cannot permit us to ignore the conduct of the States and the belief of the people
concerning the purpose of the boundary line known as the
old state, or Deakins, line, and to which their deeds called
as the boundary of their farms, in recognition of which they
have established their allegiance as citizens of the State of
West Virginia, and in accordance to.which they have fixed
their homes and habitations..
True it is, that, after the running of the Deakins line,-certain steps were taken, intended to provide a more effectual
legal settlement and delimitation of the boundary. But none
of -these steps were effectual, or such as to disturb the continued possession of the people claiming rights up to the
boundary line.
The effect to be given to such facts as long continued possession "gradually ripening into that condition which is in
conformity with international order," depends upon the merit
of individual cases as they arise. 1 Oppenheim International
Law, §243. In this case we think a right, in its nature prescriptive, has. arisen, practically undisturbed for many years,
not to be overthrown without doing violence to principles of
established right and justice equally binding upon States and
individuals. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657.
It may be true that an attempt to relocate the Deakins
line wilt show that it is somewhat irregular, and not a uniform, astronomical north and south line; but both surveyors
appointed by the States represented in this controversy were
able to locate a number of points along the line, and the northern limit thereof is fixed by a mound, and was located by the
commissioners who fixed the boundary between West Virginia and Pennsylvania by a monument which was erected
at that point, and we think from the evidence in this record

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it can be located with little difficulty by competent commissioners.
We think, fof the reasons which we have undertaken to
state, that the decree in this case should provide for the appointment of commissioners whose duty it shall be to run
and permanently mark the old Deakins line, beginning at a
point where the north and south line from the Fairfax Stone
crosses the Potomac River and running thence northerly
along said line to the Pennsylvania border.
As to the contention made by West Virginia in her cross
bill, that she is entitled to the Potomac River to the north
bank thereof, we think that claim is disposed of by the case
of Morris v. United States, 174 U. S. 196, already referred to.
In that case, among other things, there was a controversy
between the heirs of James H. Marshall and the heirs of John
Marshall as to the ownership of the bed of the Potomac River
from shore to shore, including therein certain reclaimed lands.
Claims of the one set of heirs. were based upon the charter of
Lord Baltimore of June, 1632, and that of the others upon
the grant of King James II to Lord Culpeper, afterwards
owned by Fairfax, to which we have already referred.
After making reference to the award of the commission to
fix the Virginia and Maryland boundary, appointed in 1877,
fixing the line and boundary at low-water-mark on the Virginia shore, to which arbitration the State of West Virginia
was not a party, this court disposed of the controversy, irrespective of that award, in the following language, used by
Mr. Justice Shiras indelivering the opinion of the court:
"Whether the result of this arbitration and award is to be
regarded as establishing what the true boundary always was,
and that therefore the grant to Thomas, Lord Culpeper,
never of right included the Potomac River, or as establishing a compromise line, effective only from the date of the
award, we need not determine. For. even if the latter be the
correct view, we agree with the conclusion of the court below, that, upon all the evidence, the charter granted to Lord

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Baltimore, by Charles I, in 1632, of the territory known as
the province of Maryland, embraced the Potomac River and
soil under it, and the islands therein, to high-water mark on
the southern or Virginia shore; that the territory and title
thus granted to Lord Baltimore, his heirs and' assigns, were
never divested by any valid proceedings prior to the Revolution; nor was such grant affected by the subsequent grant
to Lord Culpeper.
"The record discloses no evidence that, at any time, any
substantial claim was ever made by Lord Fairfax, heir at
law of Lord Culpeper, or by his grantees, to property rights
in the Potomac River, or in the soil thereunder, nor does it
appear that Virginia ever exercised the power to grant ownership in the islands or soil under the river to private persons.
Her claim seems to have been that of political jurisdiction."
We think this decision disposes of and denies this claim of
the State of West Virginia in her cross bill.
Upon the whole case, the conclusions at which we have
arrived, we believe, best meet the facts disclosed in this
record, are warranted by the applicable principles of law and
equity, and will least disturb rights and titles long regarded
as settled and fixed by the people most to be affected. If this
decision can possibly have a tendency to disturb titles derived from one State or the other, by grants long acquiesced
in, giving the force and right of prescription to the ownership
in which they are held, it will no doubt be the pleasure as
it will be the.manifest, duty of the lawmaking bodies of the
two States to confirm such private rights upon principles of
justice and right applicable to the situation.
A decree should be entered settling the rights of the States
to the western boundary, and fixing the same, as we have
hereinbefore indicated, to be run and established along the
old line known as the Deakins or old state line; and commissioners should be appointed to locate and establish said line
as near as may be. The cross bill of the State of West Virginia should be dismissed in so far as it asks for a decree fix-

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
217 U.S.

Syllabus.

ing the north bank of the Potomac River as her boundary.
Counsel for the respective States are given forty days from
the entry hereof to agree upon three commissioners and to
present to the court for its Approval a decree drawn according
to the directions herein given, in default of which agreement
and decree this court will appoint commissioners, and itself
draw th6 decree in conformity herewith. Costs to be equally
divided between the States.'

1q

.,'7.

Decree accordingly.

WILL v. TORNABELLS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 63. Submitted December 10, 1909.-Decided March 14, 1910.
Findings of the lower court will not, where another construction is
possible, be so construed as to cause them to be silent on an issue
so controlling that-the cause could not have been decided on the
merits without a finding thereon.
Where findings are so irresponsive to the case made by the pleadings
and the facts as to be no findings at all this court must affirm on
account of absence of any findings to review. Gray v. Smith, 108
U. S. 12.
A finding that the evidence does not entitle the plaintiff to a decree
that the conveyance attacked was made to hinder and delay creditors
construed in this case to mean that there had been a failure of proof
and that the judgment did not rcst on a conclusion of law that the
local law did not afford a remedy if the plaintiff had proved his case.

Under the law of Porto Rico contracts made by an insolvent debtor
which are not fraudulent simulations are not susceptible of rescission merely because they operate to prefer a creditor.
While the privilege of communication may not extend to the concealment of crime, where an attorney testifies that the vendor disclosed
1 For proceedings on settlement of decree and final decree, see
p..000, P684..

