COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH. 547
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH
ET AL., COMMISSIONERS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.'
ERROR TO -THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE . DTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 157.

Argued April 12, 13, 1910.-Deided.May 16, 1910.

Under the act of. February 9, 1893, c.' 74, § 8, 27 Stat. 436, appeals.
from and writs of.error to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia are governed by § 705, Rev. Stat., as to procedure, and by"
011)97
and 1012, Rev. Stat., as to filing the transcript and assignment of error as from a Circuit Court.
Rule 35 refers in terms only to writs of error and appeals under. §5
of the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, but by Rule 21, it is
in effect extended to every writ of error and appeal; and, although
error's may not be assigned on a writ of error to the Court of .Appeals'
of the District of Columbia, the cqurt is not under obligation to dismiss the writ in case the assignment of errors is not filed as required by-§§ 997 and 1012, Rev. Stat., having by its rules reserved
the option to. notice plain error whether aswigned or not.
In this case the court exercises the option reserved under'Rules 35
and.. 21 to examine the record -to ascertain if there xre errors not
assigned as.required by §§ 997, 1012, Rev.. Stat., but.so plain as to
demand correction.
Under the complete jurisdiction which the United States exercises
oVer the District of Columbia it is within the power of Congress to
arbitrarily fix a minimum amount to be assessed for benefits on
property within .the assessment district of a street opening pro. ceeding, and so held as to act of June P, 1900, c. 810, 31 Stat. 668,
as to the opening of extension of Elevebth Street.
Where Congress passes an act superseding a former act in regard to
condemnation proceedings and providing for'd reassessment of
benefits, the reassessment is a continuance of the proceeding under
the former act'and not a'new proceeding; and the assessment for
1Original Docket .-Title: Columbia Heights Realty Company v.
Henry B. F. Macfarland and others, Commissioners of the District of
Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Counsel for Parties.

217 U. S.

benefits is not barred by the statute of limitations if the proceeding
was commenced in time under' the original act.
'Objections to qualifications of jurors and their examination and oath
-in condemnation proceedings must be taken at the'time.'
That counsel was not present when-they were accepted and sworn does
not invalidate the impaneling of the jury if the statute does not so
provide.
On condemnation proceedings where the statute directs the court to
follow the procedure prescribed for other proceedings, the court
will properly vary the oath so as to relate to the property involved,
and not to the property in the other.proceedings; and if the bill of
exceptions does not' show that the essential matters were omitted
from the oath, the presumption is that the statutory oath was complied with as. far as applicable to the proceedingin which it was
administered.
Where a verdict of damages and benefits 'is
set aside as to benefits
and a reassessment ordered, the remainder of the verdictas to damages alone does not stand as res itidicata that the property is damaged and there are no benefits that can be assessed -under a subsequent act as to procedure for reassessment of benefitS.
Where. doubt as to meaning6fone part of the. Charge is eliminated by
other parts of the charge, there is no reversible error.
Where the.jury'.in a condemnation proceeding exercises its own judgment derived :from personal knowledge from viewing the 'premisbe
" nd from expert opinion evidence not taken in presence of the court,
thepower of the court to review the Award is limited -toplain errors
of law, misconduct or grave error of fact iidicating partiality or
corruption, and-the couirt is not required to reviewsallthe evidence
taken before .the jury in order to determine whether the. award is
unreasonable or uinjust where no specific wrong or injustice is pointed
out..
Where the evidence in a condemnation .proceeding is not before this
court and there'is n6 agreed' statement- of facts this court cannot
determine that the trial Court erred in'holding the award of 'the jury
made on viewing the premises and expert evidence-not so unreasonable or unjust as to'require a new trial before another jury.
31 App. D. C, 112, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in

the ' opinion.

Mr. 'Leo Simmon8 and Mr. Arthur A. Birney for plaintiff in error.

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO.
217 U. S.

: RUDOLPH.

M9

Opinion of the-Court.

Mr. James Francis Smith, with whom Mr. Edward H.
Thomas was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1899, the then Commissioners for the District of
Columbia filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the
District for the condemnation of land necessary for the
extension of Eleventh street northwest. In due course
the statutory jury of seven filed an award of damages
and of benefits. The verdict was confirmed so far as it
awarded damages for the property, but was disaffirmed
and vacated as to the amount of benefits. The award so
far as it assessed the damages was accepted and the money
has long since been paid; but from the order setting aside
or vacating the assessment of benefits the Commissioners
appealed to the Court of Appeals of the District, where
that order was reversed and the proceeding -remanded
to the lower court with direction to vacate the order
setting aside the amount of benefits, "and for such further
proceedings in the case according to law as may be just
and right." The Supreme Court of the District on
March 4, 1904, in obedience.to the mandate of the Court
of Appeals, set aside its former order vacating the asssment of benefits by the jury, and thereupon heard the
matter upon exceptions of the defendants to the award,
and upon the motion of the petitioners for a confirmation
of the award of benefits. Whereupon an order was made
denying confirmation, and ordering that "in case the
petitioners desire to proceed further in the premises, they
shall within a reasonable time make application to this
court for directions to the marshal to summon a jury of
twelve, as provided by law." From tbis order refusing
confirmation the* petitioners prayed an appeal, but did.
not perfect same. The next step in the case was taken
on June 17, 1904, when the land owners moved the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to dismiss the proceeding, assigning as reason therefor
that "the law under which such proceeding must be had
has been repealed," and, second, "for failure of petitioners to proceed as required by the order of this court
of March 4, 1904." Upon this motion the court, on
June 17, 1904, made an order in these words:
"Upon consideration of the proceedings herein and the
motion filed by Abner Greenleaf and others on June 17th,
'A. D.

1904, it is by the court, this 17th day of June,

A. D.

1904, ordered: That the petitioners in the above-entitled
cause, within sixty days from the date hereof proceed in
the matter of the reassessment of benefits herein, in accordance with the terms and provisions of the act of Congress approved June 6, 1900, entitled 'An Act for the
Extension of Columbia Road east of Thirteenth Street,
and for other purposes.' "
.Thereupon the then Commissioners, in
continuance of
the old proceeding under the act of March 3, 1899, c. 430,
30 Stat. at Large, page 1343, filed an amended and supplementary proceeding according to the terms of the later
act of. June 6, 1900, c. 810, 31 Stat. at Large, page 668,
in which, after setting out all of the proceedings under
the pending petition, they prayed for a reassessment of
benefits against abutting and adjacent owners whose lands
had not been assessed for benefits as required both under
the former and latter acts of Congress in respect to the extension of Eleventh street northwest. Under this amended
petition a jury of severwas impaneled, who returned an
assessment of benefits against the plaintiffs. This, after
exceptions had been overruled, was confirmed. A writ
of error was taken by the plaintiffs in error to the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia, where the judgment of the Supreme Cotirt was affirmed. Thereupon
this writ of error was sued out.
This protracted litigation is now before us, unaccompanied by an assignment of errors.

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH. 551
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The act of February 9, 1893, ch. 74, §8, 27 Stat. at
Large, 436, concerning writs of error and appeals from
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, provides that they shall be allowed in the "same manner and
under the same regulations as heretofore provided for
in cases of writs of error on judgment or appeals from
decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia." The procedure referred to is that found in
§705, Rev. Stat., which provides that such writs or appeals shall be allowed in the "same manner and under
the same regulations as are provided in cases of writs
of error on judgments or appeals from decrees rendered
in a Circuit Court."
Sections'997 and 1012, Rev. Stat., require the transcript
from the Circuit Court to be filed with an assignment of
errors, and the thirty-fifth rule of this court prescribes the
character of such assignments, and "that no writ of error
or appeal shall be allowed until such assignment of errors
shall have been filed,

. .

."

and that "errors not

assigned according to this rule will be disregarded, but
the court, at its option, may notice a plain error not assigned." This rule refers in terms only to writs of error
and appeals under § 5 of -the act of March 3, 1891, but
it is, in effect, extended to every writ of error or appeal
to or from any court by rule 21, which requires that the
brief shall set out "a specification of the errors involved."
This "specification of error" must conform to rule 35 in
particularity. Thus the fourth paragraph of rule 21 provides: "When there is no assignment of errors, as required by. § 997 of the Revised Statutes, counsel will not
be heard, except at the request of the court; and errors
not specified according to this rule will be disregarded;
but the court, at its option, may notice a plain error not
assigned or specified."
The court :has, however, not regarded itself as under
any absolute obligation to dismiss a writ of error or ap-

OCrOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

peal because of the non-assignment of errors as required
§§ 997 and 1012, Rev. Stat., having, by its rules, reserved
the -ption to notice a plain error whether assigned or not.
Acklej School District v. Hall, 106 U. S. 428; Farrarv.
Churchill, 135 U. S. 609, 614; United States v. Pena, 175

U. S. 500, 502.
In the present case the brief of counsel for the plaintiffs in error specifies ten alleged errors. The defendants
in error have made no objection for failure to assign error
under §§ 997, and 1012, Rev. Stat., but have submitted
the case upon the specifications of error in the brief of
the plaintiffs in error. For these reasons we shall exercise
the option reserved under both rules 21 and 35 of examiAig the transcript that we may be advised as to
whether there has occurred any "plain error" which obviously demands cgrrection.
1. Did the court err in allowing an assessment of benefits under the act of June 6, 1900? We think not. Under
the proceedings had theretofore under the act of March 3,
1899, c. 431, 30 Stat. 1344, there had resulted a condemnation of the land needed for the extension of Eleventh
street northwest, and an assessment of damages sustained
by the land owners, which' award had been confirmed
and the money paid. But that act provided "that of
'the amount found due and awarded as damages for and
in respect of, the land condemned under this section for
the openIng*of said streets, not less than one-half thereof
shall be assessed by the jury in said proceedings against
the pieces and parcels of ground situate and lying on
each side of the extension of said streets, and also on all
or any adjacent pieces or parcels of land which will be
benefited by the opening of said streets as herein provided."
Objection to this arbitrary fixing of the mini.mum amount
to be assessed for benefits upon lots benefited by the opening of the street was considered, and the
act sustained as within the complete jurisdiction which

COLUMBIA HEI(GHTS REALTY CO. r. RUDOLPH. 553
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court

the United States possesses over the District of. Columbia, in the case of Wigh v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371. The
benefits assessable under that act were separately found
as against each parcel of property supposed to be benefited, but that part of the award of the jury was vacated
upon the erroneous supposition that the rule for assessment of benefits in the act was void. This action of the
District Court, as we have already seen, was reversed.
Thereupon the District Court denied the motion of the
Commissioners to affirm the verdict of the jury assessing
benefits. In this situation it was open to the Commissioners to apply for another jury. Before they did so
the special act of June 6, 1900, was passed. The effect of
the action of the court in refusing to confirm the first
assessment of benefits was to make void the award and
Verdict of the jury,'in so far as that verdict had separately
found the benefits accruing to the property by the extension of the street. The Commissioners were therefore
complying with the direction to them found in the twelfth
section of the act of Congress of June 6, 1900. That act
provided that the Commjssioners should make application to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
"for the final ratification and confirmation of the awards
bf the jury for and in respect'to the land condemned for
the extension of Eleventh street," etc. And "in the event
that the assessments for benefits levied by the jury in relation to said Eleventh street shall for any reason be declared void, the said Commissioners . . . are authorized and directed to make application to said court
for a reassessment for such benefits under and in accordance with the provisions of this act." The procedure
under this act differs in many particulars from that under the act of 1899. In view of this the property owners,
on June 17, 1904, moved the court to dismiss the old
proceeding, basing the motion, as shown by the entry
upon the journal of the court upon the.contention that

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

"the law under which such proceeding must be had has
been repealed," and, "for failure of the petitioners to proceed as required by the order of this court," of March 4,
1904. Thereupon the court made the order heretofore
set out, requiring a reassessment of benefits under the
later act.
There is no possible doubt as to the correctness of this
order. The new act superseded the former act in so far
as the reassessment of benefits was concerned. Both
parties seemingly concurred in assuming that this was
the case, and that the refusal of the court to confirm the
original assessment of benefits was an annulment of the
award of benefits by the first jury. The order was in part
based upon the motion of the plaintiffs in error, and was
made without protest or objection, and none was suggested for more than a year. Such a reassessment was
but a continuance of the original proceeding, which
might well be done by an amended or supplementary petition by virtue of the authority of the new act. This
disposem-also of the contention that the proceeding for
ream-ssment of benefits was barred by the statute of limitations of three years. The proceeding for reassessment
was not a new action, but a continuance of the old
one, and therefore not subject to the operation of the
statute.
2. Coming now to the errors assigned upon the procedure under this petition for a reassessment of benefits.
The first objection is that the court did not examine the
jurors as to whether they possessed the qualifications required by § 4 of the new act, nor administer to them the
oath required. by the statute under which the court was
proceeding.
These objections come too late. The statute made it
-the duty of the court to hear objections to jurors "before accepting them." None was made. So with the
oath; if that administered departed in any particular from

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH. 555
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the terms of the statute, objection should have been made
at the time. None was made, and only after the verdict
was any made. The journal entry, moreover, recites that
the jurors summoned by the marshal, under the order
theretofore made, were "accepted as qualified," and that
the oath was administered to them "in accordance with
the provisions of the act of Congress of June 6, 1900."
It is now sought to contradict the record by a statement
contained in a bill of exceptions allowed after final judgment, that counsel for the plaintiff in error was not present
when the order of record was made and the jury accepted
and sworn, and that after they had been so accepted and
sworn, counsel was denied the right to examine the jurors
as to their qualifications. In respect to the oath administered the bill of exceptions contains the meagre statement that the jurors were sworn to "assess the benefits
accruing to the property, abutting or adjacent to Eleventh
street extended, according to the statute."
The oath which is required to be administered by § 4
of the act of June 6, 1900, under which the court was proceeding, was an oath applicable only to the condemnation
of laud for an extension of the Columbia road, and the
jury were to be sworn to asses the damages and benefits
resulting from the extension of that road. Such an oath in
the present case, when only benefits were'to be assessed
for property already taken and paid for, "upon another
street altogether, was of course not'appliCable. The court,
insuch circumstances, required as it was to follow the
procedure of the Columbia road statute, was perfectly
justified in swearing the jury to assess benefits to the
property concerned in this proceeding. True, the
oath
prescribed by § 4 includes an affirmation that the jury
was disinterested and unrelated and would act without
favor or partiality, but the statement in the bill of exceptions does not show that these matters were omitted
from the oath, and the presumption remains that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

statutory oath was followed as far as applicable, which is
the implication from the journal entry.
As to the qualifications of the jurors: Primarily, they
had been summoned, as shown by the order to the marshal
and his return, as men having the statutory qualifications.
The journal recites that the court "accepted them as
qualified." No hint is found in this transcript that they
were not qualified, or that they were guilty of any misconduct. Not having asked the court to examine them
before accepting them, or to be then permitted to qualify
them, it was not reversible error to deny the privilege
after they had been sworn and accepted. That counsel
was not present when they were accepted and sworn does
not invalidate the impaneling of the jury. Under the
statute and the warning order, the parties interested were
required to be present and "continue in attendance" until the matter was ended.
3. It is assigned as error that the, court erred in overruling the plea of res judicata as to lots 1 and 30 in block 27,
and lots I to 16 inblock 28. Theplea was not good.
The first jury, that which under the act of March,
1899, assessed both damages and benefits, was, under
that act, required to awarddamages ,not only for land
taken for the extension of the street, but also damages to
the remainder of the land by being left l.igh above or
below the grade. The thel) owners of these lots were
awarded such grade damages to land not taken, which
award has been confirmed and paid. But the same jury,
as they were instructed to do, assessed the benefits sustained to the remainder, not taken, separately. This
part of the verdict was set aside; so that, as it stands, the
plaintiffs have been paid the damages sustained to the
property not taken by reason of the. grade resulting,. but
have never been assessed for the benefits accruing to the
same untaken remainder. It is now said that the confirmation of the amount of damages is an adjudication

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH. 557
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the lots not taken were damaged and not benefited.
But that is not the legal construction of the judgment,
for the real damages have never been reduced by the
benefits which the statute says shall not be less than
fifty per cent of the damages sustained. The former
judgment was conclusive only as to the damages, and
that has not and could not be reopened. The benefits*
having been separately stated in that verdict remained
to be determined and were properly reassessed under the
later act of Congress.
4. Alleged error in instructions given or refused.
The sixth assignment noticed in the brief is error in
giving the first instruction asked by the Commissioners.
This request was in these words:
"It is the duty of the jury to consider and assess the
benefits which have resulted to the pieces or parcels of
land on each side of Eleventh street northwest, as extended from Florida avenue to Lydecker avenue, and the
benefits which have resulted to any and all other pieces
or parcels of land from the extension; and in determining
the amounts to be so assessed against said pieces or parcels
of land, the jury shall take into consideration the respective situations of the said pieces or parcels of land,
and the benefits that they have severally received from
said extension of said Eleventh street. By extension of
the street the jury are to understand its establishment,
laying out, and completion for all the ordinary uses of a
public thoroughfare, or highway."
The objection to this seems to be that the jury was not
limited to the benefits resulting immediately from the
opening of the street, but might consider all enhancement which might come from subsequent improvement
of or upon the street. But this was not the whole of the
instruction of the court upon that subject, and any doubt
as to what the court did mean was eliminated by other
parts of the charge. Thus the court said that to lay an

OCIOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the-Court.

217 U. S.

assessment for benefits against any piece of land abutting
upon said street or adjacent thereto the jury must find
that the benefits upon which such assessment is based
was brought about by the extension of said street, and
not by any improvement made since it was extended, or
by the extension of car lines in said street. Again, the
court said that such benefits must accrue "immediately
from the extension of the street in question." This was
repeated, when it was said that "the benefit assessable
must be an enhancement in value immediately upon the
opening and extension of said street," and that they had
"no xight to consider any enhancement or increase in
value that is the result of any special improvements made
on the street after it was opened and established as
previously stated.". There is no reason for doubting the
meaning of the court.
The several requests made by the plaintiffs in error
were sufficiently covered by the charge as given.
5. The next specification of error in the brief is in these
words: "The court erred in refusing to review the evidence taken before the jury and to determine if the verdict was unjust and unreasonable." The act of June 6,
1900, under which the court- was proceeding, required
the jury to go upon and view the premises, and then to
hear and receive such evidence as might be offered, in
the presence of the court, or otherwise, as the court
might direct, and to then return the majority verdict as
to the amount of benefits against the property involved.
In this case the evidence was not heard by the jury in
the presence of the court, that being according to the
order of the court.
The act further provides that "the court shall have
power to hear and determine any objection which may
be filed to said verdict or. award and to set aside and vacate the same, in whole or in part, when satisfied that it
is unjust or unreasonable, and in such event a new jury

COLUMBIA HEIGHTS REALTY CO. v. RUDOLPH. 559
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be summoned, who shall proceed to assess the damages and the benefits as the case may be," etc.
This specification of error has for its foundation the concluding
paragraph of the bill of exceptions, as follows:
"The foregoing substance of the testimony taken before the said jury was abstracted by the appellant from
the testimony filed as an affidavit in the case by ordei
of the court. After the counsel had argued the case upon
the propositions of the law raised by the exceptions, counsel for the appellant, in support of its motions and exceptions, offered to read to the court the said testimony, but
the court, declined to hear the same or consider it at the
time in full, counsel saying that it would be his purpose
to consider the same if the court found, after consideration, the propositions. of the law were against the appellant. But counsel had no further opportunity to argue
said case on the evidence, and without reading the evidence, or hearing it fully read, the court passed an order
overruling all the exceptions, and confirming said verdict, and refused to consider said testimony any further,
and the appellant excepted.
"And thereupon the appellant presented to the court,
the justice who presided at the hearing in this case and
made the rulings herein referred to, this its bill .of excep.tions containing the proceedings- before the court and
before the jury or commission with the substance of the
evidence taken before the said jury, and the affidavits
filed in the case subsequent thereto,, as herein referred to,
with the exceptions as therein noted, which were duly
taken by the appellants separately, in the order in which
they appear, and allowed by the court at the time."
The certificate. was in these woids:
"And the said appellant by its counsel prays the court
to sign and seal'this its bill of exceptions and make the
same a part of the recbrd in this case, which is no* accordingly done, and the said bill of exceptions is here

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

now signed and sealed in due form and made a part of
the record in this case this 14th day of August, 1907, nunc
pro tunc."
Why the court should be required to read, or hear read,
"in full," a paper which was confessedly but the substance
of the testimony taken before the jury, as "abstracted by
appellants from the testimony filed as an affidavit in the
case," we are at a loss to know. The power of the court
to review the award by such a jury must in the very nature of the matter be limited to plain errors of law, misconduct or grave error of fact indicating plain partiality
or corruption. The jury saw and heard the witnesses;
the court did not. The jury went upon and viewed the
premises; the court did not. The duty to review did not
involve mere error in judgment as to the extent of enhancenent in value, for the judgment of the jury manifestly rested upon much which could not be brought before the court. The jury was expected to exercise its
own judgment, derived from personal knowledge from a
view of the premises, as well as from the opinion evidence
which might be brought before them. Shoemaker v.
Uniited State8, 147 U. S. 282. No specific wrong, injustice
or error is pointed out. Even if we had all of the evidence before us, it would not be within our province to
*weigh it. But we have not, nor is there any agreed statement of facts. It is impossible for us to say, therefore,
whether the trial court erred in holding the award not unreasonable, or *so unjust as to require a new trial before
another jury. Other matters complained of in argument
need not be specifically referred to.
We find no error and the judgment is
Affm

