HUTCHINSON, PIERCE & (CO. v. LOEWY.
217 U. S.

457

Argument for Appellant.

HUTCHINSON, PIERCE & CO. v. LOEWY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 182.

Argued April 29, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

In a suit in the Circuit Court under the Trade-mark Act where diverse
citizenship does not exist the court's jurisdiction extends. only to
the use of the registered trade-mark in commerce between the States
with foreign nations and the Indian Tribes.
Under §§ 17, 18, of the Trade-mark Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592,
33 Stat. 724, and § 6 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of March 3,
1891,.c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, a final decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a case brought under the Trade-mark Act can only be reviewed by this court upon certiorari. Alkind v. Aloore, 212 U. S.
284.
Appeal from 163 Fed. Rep. 42, dismassed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of an
appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit brought under the Trade-mark Act of 1905, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Archibald Cox for appellant:
On the question of jurisdiction of the appeal by this court:
This is the first appeal based on the fact that the.jurisdi.
tion of the Circuit Court was founded on the Trade-mark Act
of February 20, 1905.
Appellant's right to this appeal depends upon that act and
the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, which latter act provides
for the distribution of the eitire appellate jurisdiction of ow
national judicial system. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S, 061;
Maefadden v. United ,tSates, 213 U. S. 288. An appeal lies
from the Court of Appeals to this court in all cases except those
wherein an appeal lies to this court direct from the court of
first instance and those wherein the decision of the Court of
Appeals is expressly made final. That right-of appeal is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

217 U. S.

to- be defeated by implication, but exists unless the decision
of the Court of Appeals is "made final in terms" see Press
Ptblishing Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105; Werner v. Searle
Hereth Co., 144 U. S. 47.

The .Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, applies equally to laws
of the United States enacted before and after that date,
Spreckles Sugar Refitning Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; Lau
Ow Bew v. Uniled States, 144 U. S.56, and under the Judiciary
Act the Court of Appeals had appellate jurisdiction in the case
at bar and an appeal could be takento this court, because the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested on a law of tfie United
States and the case was accordingly not a case in which the
judgment of the Court of Appeals is made final in terms, but
a case not expressly made final by the section.
The Trade-mark Act of 1905 is in no way inconsistent with
the Judiciary Act of 1891 and does not make the decision of
the Court of Appeals final. The provision as to the jurisdiction of courts in the Trade-mark Act was enacted following the
Judiciary Act which contained words "manifestly inserted
out of abundant caution in order that any qualification of the
jurisdiction by contemporaneous or subsequent acts should
not be construed as taking it away, except when expressly so
provided. Implied repeals were intended to be thereby
guarded against. Lau Ow Bew v. United States, supra.
With this before it Congress carefully avoided making the
decision of the Court of Appeals final in trade-mark. cases, as
will be seen by comparing the words of the Judiciary Act and
the Trade-mark Act.
There is nothing inconsistent. There is nothing making
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals final. And it
would seem that Congress took pains to- leave the right of appeal to this court untouched.
The T-ade-mark Act of 1905 also provides, in §'18, that
writs of certiorari may be granted by this court. This is not
inconsistent with. the right of appeal and is not unneoessary.
The right of appeal to this court is limited by the Judiciary

HUTCHINSON, PIERCE & CO. v. LOI-V'Y.
217 U. S.

459

Opinion of the Court.

Act to causes in which the amount involved exceeds one
thousand dollars. The provision for certiorari in cases under
the Trade-mark Act applies regardless of the amount of the
controversy.
Mr. E. T. Fenuick and Mr. L. L. Morrill for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill in equity for an injunction and accounting,
the complainant alleging the defendant had infringed its
technical trade-mark applied to shirts, and also was guilty of
unfair competition. As complainant is a corporation of the
State of New York and defendant is a citizen of the same State,
the court's jurisdiction extends only to the use of the registered
trade-mark in commerce between the States, with foreign
nations and the Indian tribes.
There was no attempt to prove that defendant had passed
off, or intended to pass off, his goods for. complainant's, or had
made profits, or that complainant had sustained damage.
The cause proceeded solely on complainant's ownership of its
technical trade-mark.
The Circuit Court held that defendant's trade-mark or
brand was clearly distinguishable from that of complainant.
and said:
"There is no reasonable probability of the ordinary purchaser being deceived into buying the defendant's manufacture as that of complainant. The rule is well established that
a trade-mark, word or symbol has the elements of a property
right: and may not be unlawfully used by 4 rival in business
either alone or as an accessory to such prior appropriation and
in such cases a right to injunctive relief follows without proof
of confusion of proprietorship or that buyers have been actually misled by such use. But if a defendant's design or symbol
is essentially different and distinguishable in appearance so

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

that by no possibility can his article be taken for complainant's
genuine production, a cause of unlawful appropriation is not
maintainable." 163 Fed. Rep. 44.
The bill was thereupon dismissed, and having been taken by
appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, the decree below was affirmed. 163 Fed. Rep.
42.
Appellants thereupon petitioned for an appeal to this court,
which was allowed.
Sections 17 and 18 of the act of Congress approved k'ebruary 20, 1905, c. 592, 33 Stat. 724, in respect to. trade-marks,
reads as follows:
"SEc. 17. That the Circuit and Territonal- Courts of the
United States and the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia shall have original jurisdiction, and the Circuit Courts of
Appeal of the United States and the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia shall have appellate jurisdiction of all
suits at law or in equity respecting trade-marks registered in
accordance with the provisions of this act, arising Under the
present act, without regard to the amount in controversy.
"SEc. 18. That writs Of certiorari may be granted by the
Supreme Court of the United States for the review of cases
arising under this act in the same manner as provided for patent cases by the act creating: the Circuit Court of Appeals."
We are of opinion that this appeal will not lie, and that the
remedy by certiorari is exclusive. By the sixth section of the
Judiciary Act of March 3,1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, the
final decisions of the Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final
"in all cases under the. patent laws, under the revenue laws,
under the criminal laws and in admiralty cases," with power
in this court to require any such cases to be certified thereto
for its review and determination, "with the same power and
.authority in the case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ
of error to the Supreme Court."
We think that the language of § 18 places suits brought under the Trade-mark Act plainly within the scope of the act

KIDD, DATER CO. v. "MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 461
217 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

establishing the Court of Appeals, and that a final decision of
that court can be reviewed in this court only upon certiorari,
and that therefore the pending appeal must be dismissed.
And this conclusion is sustained by Atkins v. Moore, 212 U. S.

285, 291.
Appeal dismissed.

KIDD, DATER AND PRICE COMPANY v. MUSSELMAN
GROCER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 149. Argued April 13, 14, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.
Where this court has held a state statute constitutional it will follow
that decision in a oase involving the constitutionality of a statute
of another State which fundamentally is similar and which is attacked on the same ground by persons similarly situated; and so held
that the Michigan Sales-in-Bulk Act of 1905 which is fundamentally similar to the Sales-in-Bulk Act of Connecticut, sustained in
Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S. 489, is not unconstitutional under the
due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is within the police power of the State to require tradesmen making
sales in bulk of their stock in trade to give notice to their creditors
and also to prescribe how such notice shall be given, and unless the
previsions as to such notice are unreasonable and arbitrary a statute to that effect does not amount to deprivation of property,
abridge liberty of contract or deny equal protection of the law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment;, nor is the requirement
in the Michigan Sales-in-Bulk Act of 1905 that such notice be either
personal or by registered mail unreasonable or arbitrary.
151 Michigan, 478, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the Salesin-Bulk Act of 1905 of Michigan, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. G. M. Valentine, with whom Mr. E. L. Hamilton,

