LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. v. KNIGHT. 257
217 V. 8.

Syllabus.

remains as a permanent determination of the respective rights
of the parties, subject only to the further right of either party
to apply for a modification upon any changed condition of
affairs; and, so far as any matter of supervision of the personal skill and judgment of the officers of the respondent
corporation, the cotract, in terms, provided that the regulation of the running of trains shall be subject to the control of
the officers of the respondent."
See also the opinion of this court in 138 U. S. 1, 47.
The decree of the Circuit Court of December 20, 1907, is
therefore modified in accordance with the views we have
expressed as to. terminal facilities in connection with the
industrial establishments now existing near the right of way
of the Wabash Company. If that company shall desire it
may apply, for a valuation of the additional properties of
which the equal use and enjoyment is given to the intervenor,
and upon that valuation the same per cent shall be paid by
the intervenor. The costs, except so far as they have been
already taxed, shall be charged against the respondents.

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER COMPANY v.KNIGHT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TM FIFTH
CIRCUT.

No. 101. Argued January 24, 1910.-Deided April 11, 1910.
A party who as defendant in an equity case has puccessfully asserted
that his adversary's claim is not. cogniable in equity, cannot subsequently in an action at law brought by him against the plaintiff
involving the same matter assert that the same claim set up as a
defense is of an equitable character.
The objection in an action at law in the Fgderal courts that a defense
.is of equitable cognizance cannot be taken for the first time in the
appellate court Burbank v. Bipow, 154 U. 8. 558.
On certiorari granted under the provisions of the Court of Appeals Act
voL. ccxvii-

7

-268

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

of 1891 the entire record is before this court with power to decide
the ease-as presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals on the writ of
error issued by it.
The great purpose of the Court of Appeals Act to which all its provisions are subservient is to distribute jurisdiction of the Federal
courts and to relieve the docket of this court by casting on the
Circuit. Courts of Appeals the duty of deciding cases over which
their jurisdiction is final.
Although ordinarily the mandate of this court in case coming to it
on cettiorari to the Circuit. Court of Appeals goes directly to the
Circuit Court,'whee certiorari is granted, solely on the ground that
the Circuit Court of Appeals has failed to consider the case, the
judgment -will be reversed and the case remanded to that court
.with instructions to hear and decide it.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. .A.P. Pujo, with. whom Mr. George E. Holland was on
the biief, for petitioners.
Mr. M. J. Cunningham, with whom Mr. M. J. Cunningham,
Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.

Ma.

JusTICE WHrTz

delivered the opinion of the court.

On January 28, 1882, Dan R. Knight and John A. Lovett
sold to William J. Knight several tracts of land situated in the
State of Louisiana. The price stated in the act of sale was
$15,000, $500 cash and the balance, $14,500, on credit, evidenced by a note of the purchaser. On February 5, 1887,
W. J. Knight sold to Viola P. Knight, wife of Dan R. Knight, a
one-half interest, and on February 7, 1887, he sold to J. C.
Knight a one-fourth interest in the'same lands. The remaining one-fourth interest was parted with by an act of sale dated
April 13, 1889, wherein W. J. Knight joined with Viola P.
Knight and John C. Knight in selling the entire land to Henry
J. Lutcher and G. Bedell Moore. On April 3, 1901, Moore sold
his undivided one-half interest to the Lutcher & Moore Lumber Company. All these acts of sale were duly recorded in the
proper land conveyance records.

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. v.KNIGHT. 259
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

In March, 1903, William H. Knight,-his brother, and two
.sisters, one a'married woman,*whose: husband joined in the
suit as a merely technical, party; commenced this action iii
the state district court of Vernon Parish, Louisiana, against
Henry J. Lutcher and the Lutcher& Moore Lumber Conpany; asking to .be adjudged the owners of and'to be entitled
to the possession of an undivided half interest in: the lands
bought by William J. Knight in 1882 from D. R. Knight and
John A. Lovett. The right of ownership was based upon the
averment that the petitioners were children of William "J.
,Knight; that the property bought by him was acquired during
themirriage between their father and motheri that it formed
a part of the. community existing'between them and constitUted an acquet of the *community at the time of the death of
the mother in August, 1885. The right of the father to sell, in
1887 and 1889, the one-half interest belonging to their mother,
-asthe result of her community estate, was'denied, and it was
-charged that the defendants who-Were in possession in virtue
..of the attempted sale made by the father were mere trespassers. * It was besides averred that William J. Knight, the
fathefj:married a second time, in June, 1886.
Because of diversity of citizenship the cause was removed
into the Circuit Couit of the United States. for the Western
District of Louisiana. In that courtthe defendants angwered.
In addition to averring that the petition disclosed'no cause." of
action and denying generally all the allegationsof the petition
not expressly admitted, it was :averred: That William J.
Knight had never intermarried with the'mother of the peti'tioners; that even- if there had been such a marriage and a
community resulting from it, the property sued for was net an
acquet of.such community, because it was the separate property of W..J.Knight, as no cash price vaid ever paid by him
for the property and no note given as recited in the notarial
act of sale, and, although tle transaction -was:put in the form
of a sale, it was only ostensibly so, having been merely intended to be a donation to him of the property. It was, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opiuion of the Court.

217 q.8.

ever, moreover alleged that the property never formed part of
a community existing between Knight and his alleged first
wife, even if there was such community, because the property
was conveyed to hin under a secret agreement, for the benefit
of his vendors, and that all the subsequent transfers were in
pursuance of such agreement. It was further alleged that the
sales to the defendants were executed in good faith for valuable
considerations without notice or knowledge of the claims of
plaintiffs, Knight being then married and there being no evidence of record of a previous marriage or of the death of the
alleged previous wife. In a further paragraph of the answer
it was claimed "that the pretended sale made July 28, 1882,
to said William J. Knight was a simulation and a fiction,"
and that the seeming grantors made said pretended sale for
the sole purpose of screening said property from the pursuit of
their creditors; "that the property never became community
property, but always belonged to said Knight and Lovett, as
William J. Knight and his alleged wifd and all parties well
knew, until the sale made April 13, 1889, by W. J. Knight,
John C.Knight and Viola P. Knight to Henry J. Lutcher and
G.' Bedell Moore." The respective interests of the defendants
in the land were next averred, their vendors were called in
warranty, and it was prayed that in the event of eviction defendants might recover of their warrantors the proportionate
amount of the purchase price which they had received. An
amendment to the answer wag subsequently filed October 27,
1903, amplifying the claim that the sale in 1882 to William J.
Knight was not bona fid, but was for the benefit of the
grantors, and included both movable and immovable property
belonging to said vendors, and averring that the $500 recited
cash consideration was paid, but with money of the grantors,
and that a note was executed, but with no intention to pay the
same or to demand payment thereof, and that it was in fact
redelivered to Knight without his making payment, and it was
averred that the pretended sale constituted only a paper title
to the property, "and same never in fact nor in law became the

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. v. KNIGHT. 261
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property of the community between him and his so-called
wife; and no interest whatever in said property vested in said
community, and the said plaintiffs herein are without right or
equity to any right, title or interest in the said lands." The
prescriptions of one, two, four, five and ten years were also
pleaded.
As expressly stated in the argument, both by counsel for
the. petitioners and by counsel for the respondents, and as
appears from recitals contained in a petition for rehearing
printed in the record, to which we shall hereafter more particularly refer, the defendants who had removed this action to
the Circuit Court in December, 1903, filed in that court their
bill of complaint, in which they made the plaintiffs in this action defendants. The bill, after substantially reiterating the
averments which we previously recited, and which were contained in the answer filed in this cause, prayed that the further
prosecution of the action be perpetually enjoined. The right
*to prevent the further prosecution of thi action at law was
based on the assertion that the law action "clouded your
orators' title to the land in suit; that your orators' defenses are
equitable, and that the pendency of. said suit and the cloud
cast on your orators' title works irreparable injury and damage to your orators and "hat they have no adequate remedy at
law."

The following demurrer was interposed to the bill of corn-

plaintr
"First. Plaintiffs are estopped from attacking their own
title.
"Second. The deed under which the defendants claim has
been adjudged a good and valid title.
"Third. The complaint comes too late, the defendants having filed a suit in law, and the plaintiffs have answered to their
demands, in which they set up a defense, which if sustained
will be adequate in law.
"Fourth. That the allegations of plaintiffs' bill of eamplaint
is simply a reiteration of their answer in suit No. 276 in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the. Court.

217 U. S.

Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Louisiana, at law, and that the allegations therein contained
and set forth set up a plea of estopped in pals and constitute
a complete and adequate remedy at law.
"Fifth. That the bill of complaint discloses no right or cause
of action.
"Finally. Defendants especially demur to the right of plaintiffs to bring their bill in equity, as neither the law nor the
jurisprudence of this State authorizes or provides suits in
equity, and especially is this so as to real estatd situated in the
State. Hence, defendants prove that the injunction herein
asked for be denied. That this branch of the case be dismissed
at plaintiffs' cost and suit No. 276 be proceeded with according to law."
After argument, and on February 16, 1904, a decree was
entered in favor of the respondents, in which it was recited
that "The court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the
suit at cost of complainants." This.action, which had in the
meanwhile been pending in the Circuit Court, upon the issues
made up as heretofore stated, was tried and resulted in a
verdict and judgment in favor of the defendants. Error
having been prosecuted from the Circuit Court of Appeals
in that court on April 4, 1905, the judgment was reversed
and the cause remanded. The court did not pass upon the
merits, because it found that. the citizenship of the Lutcher
& Moore Lumber Company, the corporation defendant, was
uot adequately averred in the petition for removal, and there,ore the proper basis for jurisdiction in the court below had
not been laid (136 Fed. Rep. 404) and a petition for rehearing
was refused. 139 Fed. Rep. 1007.
In the Circuit Court, after the receipt of the mandate of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, plaintiffs objecting and excepting, the defendants, in accordanee with leave granted, amended
the averments of citizenship in the petition for removal so a.
to cause them to be in all respects adequate. Subsequently,
upon grounds which it is not. necessary to state, plaintiffs

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. v. KNIGHT. 263
217 U.S..

.Opinion of the Court.

filed a paper styled a demurrer to portions of the answer of
the defendants and pieaui of rte judicata and estoppel. The
case was tried the ecur,:! time to a jury in October, 1906.
During the progr*s of the Lrial the deposition of J. A. Lovett,
one of the original vendors of Knight, was offered by the
defendants. The testimony tended to show that the note for
$14,500, described ia the act of sale by which Knight had
acquired the property as.having been given as part of the
purchase price, had not beea paid by him prior to the death
of his first wife, and that ithad subsequently been paid out
of the purchase price reafiied from the-various sales which
were assailed, and that the amount was therefore a debt of
the community, and the plaintiffs as heirs of their mother
could not attack the sales without tendering their share of
the community debt, which had been paid as the result of
the sales. This testimony was excluded by the court, because, among other reasonis, it was held not to be competent
under the defenses made in the answers. Thereupon the
defendants requested to be allowed to amend on the ground
that on the former trial the testimony had been admitted as
within the issues arising from the answers, and that the defendants "therefore took no steps to provide for the contingency of a change in the opinion of the court by amending
their answers so as to clearly make such defenses admissible."
To the action of the court in refusing to allow this amendment an exception was taken. Differing from the first trial,
there was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, upon which judgment was entered. Various exceptions additional to those
to which we have just referred were taken by the defendants.
Without going into detail it suffices to say that these exceptions were varied in character, embracing all the defenses
made in the answers and covered rulings of the court on the
admission aid rejection of e\idence and the refusal to give
requested instructions. On error the case again went to the
Circuit Court of Appeas for the Fifth Circuit, and as the
result of the numerous exceptions taken below- the assign-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

ments of error In substance presented for decision the many
questions raised in the trial court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affrmed the judgment of the
trial court, and the opinion delivered by it is as follows: 'By
the -Court: After a thorough and attentive consideration of
the questions raised on this writ, we are of opinion that the
matters of defense relied upon by plaintiff in error on the
trial below, in so far as they were not given consideration,
were of an equitable nature, not cognizable in a court of law,
we therefore affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court." A
lengthy petition for rehearing was filed on December 26,
1907, and a few days thereafter there was also filed what was
styled "Motion by plaintiffs in error to withhold mandate,
stay proceedings, and order trial of the equitable issues, with
suggestions of res judicata and waiver." Both in the petition
and in the motion counsel contended that contrary to the
ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals the trial court held all
the issies properly triable on the law side of the court, and
that the plaintiffs in this action never at any time suggested
that any of the matters of defense were equitable, and to
dispose of the cause as the court had done would deprive the
defendants of their rights and entail great hardship upon
them. The defendants also incorporated in the motion the
bill of complaint filed in the equity cause heretofore referred
to and which was instituted by them to enjoin the prosecution
of this action, as also the demurrer and the. decree of dismissal. In connection therewith the suggestion was made
that the decree in said cause ought in conscience to be treated
as res judicata of the question of the nature of the defenses
interposed in this action. Elaborate argument was advanced
to sustain the contention that the defenses introduced
amounted only to a denial of the case made by the plaintiffs,
and that the. evidence excluded by the trial court should have
been received, and upon the undisputed record a -verdict
should have been directed for the defendants below. The
appellate court was asked to allow an o?al argument of the

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. . KNIGHT. 265
217 U.S.

.OPbi

of the Court.

petition for rehearing: "In view of the fact that the case
has been disposed of on questions not raised by either party,
and not considered when this cause was submitted, and in
view of the attitude of the trial court with reference to the
defenses being at law and not in equity, and in view of the
attitude plaintiffs in error have been placed in, because of
this question having been determined adversely to its rights
for the first time in this court." The record does not show
that any formal disposition was made of the petition for rehearing, and the motion to which we have referred, other
than an entry, dated January 22, 1908; reading as follows:
"Ordered, that the issuance of mandate in this case be, and
it is hereby, stayed for thirty days from this date." The case
thereupon ca'me here in consequence of the allowance of a
writ of certiorari.
The record unquestionably establishes that the Uircuit
Court, with the acquiescence of all parties, treated the de
fenses interposed by the answer of the defendants as legal in
their nature. Aside, however, from the strict record, both
the respondents and the petitioners call our attention to the
transcript containing the proceedings in the equity cause.
Indeed,. counsel for respondents particularly press upon our
attention that the defendants below, plaintiffs in the equity
cause, acquiesced in the decree entered against them in the
Circuit Court in such cause by not appealing therefrom, and
that "it binds and estops them from now urging the same
matters set up in that bill." There is no denial, but, on the
contrary, by necessary implication, counsel for respondents
admit the truth of the statement made in the petition for
rehearing, filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the
cause was disposed of by that court "on questions not raised
by either party, and not considered when this cause was
submitted,' and contrary to the "attitude of the trial court
with reference to the defenses being at law and not in equity."
It is a reasonable inference that when, after the removal
of the cause, the defendants filed their bill of complaint setting

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

'up the defenses which they had urged in their answer in this
action, such course must have been suggested by the fact that
the distinction between law and equity did not prevail in the
courts of the State of Louisiana, and that therefore it was
well for them after they had removed the cause into a court
of the United States to seek to conform to the practice there
prevailing, and, in any event, to pursue a course which woulE
render it certain that in the new forum they would not be
deprived because of the form of pleading of their right to
have their defenses passed upon.. The plaintiffs in the action
at law (this action) who were the defendants in the equity
cause, having as a defense to that cause insisted that the
defenses were not cognizable in equity, and having prevailed
in such contention were certainly in conscience placed in a
position where they could not by a change of attitude assert
that the defenses were legal in their nature and -thus deprive
the defendants of all means of defense in this action. Indeed,
the record does not intimate that they sought to do so, since
it affirmatively establishes that the plaintiffs in this action,
after having obtained as respondents the adjudication in
their favor in the equity cause, an adjudication which was
as well binding upon them -as upon the complainants, acquiesced in the decree, an acquiescence which was manifestly
concurred in by the opposing parties and sanctioned by the
trial court. The case is altogether unlike that which would
be presented by an objection urged by the respondents to a
bill in equity, against the power of the court to exert jurisdiction over a cause of action indisputably cognizable only in a
court of law, whereby a deprivation Of the constitutional
right of trial by jury would result. In this case, on the contrary, the question considered did -not concern the inherent
jurisdiction of the court ovtr the subject-matter. The decision of the question before us is controlled by the case of
Burbank v. Bigelow, 154 U. S. 558. That was an action at law
in which the plaintiff recovered judgment. In this court,
for the first time, the objection was made by the unsuccessful

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER 00. v.KNIGHT. 267
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.'

party that the matter of the demand of plaintiff was one of
equitable cognizance. The court, however, said (p. 559):
"The objection that the matter of plaintiffs' demand is.
one of equitable cognizance in the Federal courts cannot
prevail.. No such objection was raised in the court below
at any stage of the proceedings, and it cannot be permitted
to a defendant to go to trial before a jury on the facts of a
case involving fraud, and let it proceed to judgment on the
verdict without any attempt to assert the equitable character
of the suit, and then raise that question for the first time in
this court."
Applying this doctrine to the facts and circumstances
which we have previously stated, we are of opinion that it
inevitably results that the effect of the action of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was substantially to deny to the plaintiffs
in error in that court, petitioners here, their day in court;
in other words, was equivalent to condemning them without
affording them an opportunity to be heard.
It is undoubted that-by the operation of the writ of certiorari, granted in accordance with the provisions of the
Judiciary Act of 1891, the entire record is before us with power
to decide the case as it was presented to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, by reason of the writ of error issued out of that court.
Certain is it also that the4Judiciary Act of 1891 contemplates
that, as a general rule, where under its provisions a case comes
.to this court on certiorari to a Circuit Court of Appeals it will
be disposed of so that the mandate of this court, to avoid
circuity,. will go directly to the Circuit Court. The great
purpose of the act of 1891, however, to which all its provisions
are subservient, is to distribute the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States, and-thus to relieve the docket of this
court by casting upon the Circuit Courts of Appeal the duty
of finally deciding the cases over which the jurisdiction of
those courts is by the act made final. The power to certiorari
in accordance with the act, in its essence,. is only a means to
the end that this imperative and responsible duty may be

.OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. B.

adequately performed. As it is patent from the statement
we have made that the only ground upon which the power
to certiorari could have been exerted was the failure of the
court below to consider the case before it, we think this record
presents an exception to the general rule of procedure above
-referred to. In other words, in a case like this we think the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed
and the case be remanded to that court to the end that the
duty to hear and decide it may be performed. To hold otherwise would be repugnant to the plain intent of the act of
1891, since it would recognize a practice by which the concededly essential purpose of the act of 1891 could be disregarded or be made practically of no avail.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case is remanded to that court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND, UNITED STATES DISTRICT
JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 630. Argued January 25, 26, 1910.-Decided April 11, 1910.
The power of this court to issue writs of certiorari to the Citcuit Court

of Appeals is not limited to the provisions of the Court of Appeals
Act. It may issue them under 1 716, Rev. Stat. In re Chetwood,
165 U. S. 443; Whitney v. Dick, 202 U..S. 132.
Under J 716, Rev. Stat., and ยง.12 of the Court of Appeals Act the
Circuit Court oi' Appeals has authority to issue writs of cire facia
and all writs not specifically provided for by statute and necessary
for' the exercise of the court's jurisdiction, and agreeable to the
usages and principles of law.

