GRENADA LUMBER CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

be deemed a final one. The case must go back and be tried
upon its merits, and final judgment must be rendered before
this court can take jurisdiction. If after that it should be
brought here for review, we can then examine the defendant's
sufficiency."
plea and decide'upon its
It may- thus be seen that a plea of former conviction under
the constitutional provision that no person shall be twice put"
in jeopardy for the same offense does not have the effect to
prevent a prosecution to final judgment, although the former
conviction or acquittal may be finally held to be a completp
bar to any right of prosecution, and this notwithstanding the
person is in jeopardy a second time if after one conviction or
acquittal the. jtiry is empanelled to try him again. We think,
then, that the effect of the immunity statute in question is not
to change \the system of appellate procedure in the Federal.
courts and give a right of review before final judgment in a
criminal case, but was intended to provide an effectual defense against further prosecution, which if denied may be
brought up for review after a final judgment in the cAse.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the motion to dismiss the present writ be sustained, and it is so'ordered.
Writ of error dismissed.

GRENADA LUMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF MIS-

SIssgPPI.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 493. Submitted January 10, 1910.-tDecided May 2, 1910.

This court accepts the construction of the st4te court; and wherq that
court has held that an agreement between retailers not to purcbse
from wholesale dealers who sell direct to consumers within prescribed localities amounts to a restraint of trade within .the meaning
of the anti-trust statute of the State, the only question for this court
is whether such statute so unreasonably abridges freedom of conVOL. ccxvii--28

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

tract as to amount to deprivation of property without due process
of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
An act harmless when done by one may become a public wrong when
done by many acting in concert, and when it becomes the object of
a conspiracy and operates in restraint of trade the police power of
the State may prohibit it without impairing the liberty of contract
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held that while
an individual may not be interfered with in regard to a fixed trade
rule not to purchase from competitors, a State may prohibit more
than one from entering into an agreement not to purchase from certain described persons even though such persons be competitors and
the agreement be made to enable the parties thereto to continue
their business as independents.
Whether a combination is or is not illegal at common law is immaterial
if it is illegal under a state statute which'does not infringe the'Fourteenth Amendment.
A combination that is actually in restraint of trade under a statute
which is constitutional, is illegal whatever may be the motive or necessity inducing it.
In determining the validity of a state statute, this court is eoncerned
only with its constitutionality; it does not consider any question of
its expediency.
In determining the constitutionality of a state statute this court considers only so much thereof as is assailed, construed and applied in
the particular case.
One not within a class affected by a statute cannot attack its constitutionality.
Where the penalty provisions of a statute are clearly separable, as in
this case, and are not invoked, this court is not called upon to determine whether the penalties are so excessive as to amount to deprivation of property without due process of law and thus render the
statute unconstitutional in that respect.
In this case, in an action by the State in equity and not to enforce
penalties, held that the anti-trust statute of Mississippi, § 5002,
Code, is not inconstitutional as abridging the liberty of contract
as against retail lumber dealers uniting in an agreement, which the
state court decided was within the prohibition of the statute, not
to purchase any hiateriai6 from wholesale dealerm selling direct to
consumers in certain localities.

THIS is a writ of ei ur to the 3upreme Court of the State

GRENADA LUMBER CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
217 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

of Mississippi to review a decree dissolving a voluntary association of retail lumber dealers as a combination in restraint
of trade under a statute of the State'
. So much of the Mississippi act as is here involved is set out
in the margin, being, part of § 5002, Mississippi Code.1 •
The proceeding under this statute was by a bill filed in a
chancery court of the State, by the State, upon relation of
its Attorney General. The bill averred that the defendants,
some seventy-seven individuals and corporations, were retail
dealers in lumber, sash, doors, etc., doing business, some of
them, in the State of Mississippi and others in the State of
Louisiana, and were competitors in business, each engaged in
buying and selling again for profit, and in competition, with
each other for the bqsiness of consumers; that the defendants
had entered into an agreement, compact or combination for
the purpose and with the intent to destroy, prevent or sup-

15002. (4437) Definition of term; criminal c6nspiracy (laws, 1900,
ch. 88).-A trust and combine is a combination, contract, understanding or agreement, expressed or implied, between two or more persons,
corporations or firms, or associations or .persons, .or between one of
more of either with one or more of the other: .
(a)In restraint of trade;
(b)- To limit, increase or reduce the price of a commodity,
(c) To limit, increase or reduce the production or output of a commodity;
(d) Intended to hinder competition in the production, imliortation,
manufacture, transportation, sale or purchase of -a commodity;
(e) To engross or forestall a commodi y;
(f)To issue, own or hold the 'certificates of stock of any trust or
corbine;
(q) .To place t.e cowA:o!, to any extent, of business, or of the product-S
and earning. t01. reof, 'Ai the power of trustees, by whatever' name
called;
(h) By which any other person than themselves, their proper
officers, agents and employees shall,,or shall have the po'er to oictate or control the management of business, or,
(i)To unite or pool interests in theimpqrtation, manufacture, production, transportation or price of a-commodity; and ib inimical to
the public welfare, unlawful and a criminal conspiracy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 U. S.

press all competition between themselves, as retail dealers in
the materials mentioned, and manufacturers, wholesale aealers,
brokers or commission men, keeping no stock, from. selling
the like articles or commodities directly to consumers in competition with retailers. To accomplish this suppression of
competition for the trade of consumers it was in substance
averred that they had organized an association and had ob.ligated themselves not to purchase any of their stock or commodities from any wholesale dealer or manufacturer who sold
.such products direct to the consumers in competition with
the members of their combination and to carry out this end
had adopted articles of agreement, called a constitution, and
appointed.a secretary to ascertain such sales and to see that
the obligation of the members was- respected. The material
parts of the agreement under which the defendants combined
consist of a preamble, called "Declaration of Purpose," the
relevant part of which, together with articles 2, 3 and 7, are
set out in the margin.'
It was then averred that the necessary effect .of such agreement among the defendants. who, it was said, composed a
majority of all the retail lumber dealers in the States covered
by their compact, was to limit or destroy competition between
IDeclation of Purpose.
We recognie, the right of the manufacturer and wholesale dealer
in lumber products to-sell lumber in whatever market, to whatever
purchaser, and at whatever price, they may see fit.
We also recognise the disastrous consequences which result to the
retail dealer from direct competition with wholesalers and maniifacturers, and appreciate the importance to the retail dealer of accurate information as to the nature and extent of such competition,
where any exists.
And, recognizing that, we, as retail dealers in lumber, sash, doors
and blinds, cannot meet competition from those from whom we buy,
we are pledged as members of this association to buy only from manufacturers and wholesalers.who do not sell direct to consumers, where
there are retail lumber dealers who carry.stock commensurate with
the demands of their communities, and we are pledged not to buy
from lumber commission merchants, agents and brokers, who sell to

GRENADA LUMBER CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
217 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

the retailers and the wholesalers or manufacturers for the
trade or business of the consumer, and that they constituted
a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade, etc.
consumers, but do not carry stocks, nor from a manufacturer who
sells t,such lumber commission merchants, agent or broker.
Article Two.
The Object.
The object of this association is and shall be to secure and disseminate among its members any and all legal and proper information
which may be of interest or value to any member or members thereof
in his or their business as retail lumber dealers, and to carry into
actual effect our "Declaration of Purpose."
Article Three.
Limitation and Restriction.
SEc. 1. No rules, regulations or by-laws shall be adopted in any
manner stifling competition, limiting production, restraining trade,
regulating prices or pooling profits.
S-c. 2. No coercive measures of any kind shall be practiced or
adopted toward any retailer, either to induce him to join the associa:tion or to buy or refrain from buying of any particular manufacturer
or wholesaler. Nor shall any discriminatory practices on the part
of this association be used or allowed against any retailer for the
reason that he may not be a member of the association, or to induce
or persuade him to become such member.
SvC. 3. No promises or areements shall be requisite to membership
in this association, save those provided in these" Articles of Association and Declaration of Purpose," nor shall any members be restricted
to any particular territory, but may compete any and everywhere.
Article Seven.
Suc. 1. Report of secretary: Arty member of this association hav.
ing cause of complaint against, a manufacturer or wholesale dealer,
or his agents because of shipment to a consumer, shall notif' the
secretary of this association in writing, giving as full information in
reference thereto as practicable, such as date or dates of shipment and
arrival, car number and initials, original point of shipment, names
of consignor and consignee the purpose for which the material was or
is to be used, and such other particulars as may be obtainable.
Such notice must be sent with or without information in detail,
within thirty days after the receipt of shipment at point of. destination, and no notice shall be filed of any such sale or shipment occurring

.OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 U. S.

The answer admitted the substantial facts, but denied that
the object or purpose was to restrain trade or to suppress
competition, or that such a result has ensued or would or
within fifteen days after the first issue of membership list succeeding

the acceptance of his application.
Upon the receipt of such notice the secretary shall first ascertain
whether or not the complaining member carries a stock commensurate with the demands of his community, and if he finds that such
siock is not carried, he shall ignore the complaint unless upon application of such complaining inmber the executive committee shall re.verse his finding, but if he find that such: stock is-carried he shall then
notify the manufacturer or wholesaler that the rules of this association do not allow its members to buy from those manufacturers and
wholesalers who sell to consumers, and unless such manufacturer or
wholesaler shall satisfy the secretary that the complaint is not well
founded the' secretary shall' report the faets to the executive committee,! and upon the approval of hisfinding by a majority of the execu•tive committee the secretary shall the'n notify the members of this
association of such sale, and they shall discontinue to buy from such
manufacturer or wholesaler until notified by the secretary that such
wholesaler or manufacturer does not-sell to consumers where there is
a retail dealer who carries a stock commensurate with the demands of
his cbmniihity, but this section shall not apply in cases where the
buinbss methods o& financial condition of such retailer will not Jushim..
tify a manufacturer or wholesaler in'dealing with
Undc.r no circumstances shall the secretary enter into any agreemntnt with a manufacturer or wholesaler that any one of the dssociatin members w*ll deal with' him, nor shall he in any case'exact a
promise from the wholesaler or manufacturer that he will not sell to
consumners, nor shall any result other than that of-the members refusing to buy from any such manufacturer or wholesaler follow from
,the steps-taken as hereby provided for.
Sec. 2. The foregoing provisions, shall apply in reported cases of
.lumber commission merchants, agents and brokers, who sell to consumers, but do not carry stock, and as against the manufacturers who
sell to such commission merchants, agents or brokers.
Sec. 3. Each member, when he joins this association, and once each
year thereafter, and oftener if the secretary shall requeat it, shall
furnish the secretary a list of those manufacturers and wholesalers
id their agents from whom he makes purchases of. lumber and other
.,building -material.

GRENADA LUMBER.CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

could follow, or that the agreement had any other object
than to "conserve and advance their business interests as
retailers." That their agreement is defensive of and not
injurious to public interests is asserted by many paragraphs
of the-answer upon economic considerations.
The chancery court, upon the pleadings and exhibits, held
that the association and agreement among the members was
'a combination in restraint of trade and intended to hinder
competition in the sale and purchase of a commodity, and
was inimical to the public welfare, and unlawful." The dissolution of the association was adjudged and an injunction
against further operations granted. This decree was affirmed
upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the State.
Mr. Edward Mayes and Mr. C. D. Joslyn for plaintiffs in
eir er.
Mr. J. B. A'uraing for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The agreement and combination which offends against
the Mississippi anti-trust statute is one between a large
majority of the independent and competitive merchants engaged in the retail lumber trade in the territory covered by
their articles of association, whereby they have obligated
themselves not to deal with any manufacturer or wholesale
dealer in lumber, sash or doors, etc., who sells to consumers
in localities in which they conduct their business and keep
a sufficient stock to meet demands, and to inform each other
of any sale made by manufacturers or wholesalers who sell
to consumers..
That such an agreement and combination was, within the
meaning of the Mississippi statute, a conspiracy "in restraint
of trade," "intended to hinder competition in the Droduction,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

importation,. manufacture, transportation, sale or purchase
of a commodity," is the express decision of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi. That the object and purpose. of the
compact was to suppress competition between the plaintiffs
in error and another class of dealers in or producers of the
same commodity and the consumer is avowed in the "Declaration of Purpose," set out heretofore, in which it is stated
that the members of the association; as retailers, "cannot
meet competition from those from whom they buy." ' This
concession. means, if it means anything, that those against
whom the plaintiffs in error are acting in concert will undersell them in the competition for the trade of the consuming
public, and must therefore be stopped by concerted refusal
to deal with. them if they should persist in such competition.
This constitutes under the interpretation of the Mississippi
statute by the Mississippi court a "restraint of trade," and a
hindrance to competitors in the sale of a commodity. Accepting, as we must, this interpretation and application of a
state statute by the highest court. of the State, tiere is no
question for our consideration other than the insistence. that
the statute is in conflict With the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States. The contention is
that this statute abridges unreasonably the freedom of contract
which is as much within the protection of that Amendment
as is liberty of person.
That any one of the persons engaged in the retail lumber
business might have made a fixed rule of conduct not to buy
his stock from a producer or wb.olesaler who should sell to
consumers in competition with himself, is plain. No law
which would infringe his freedom of contract in that particular would stand. But when the plaintiffs in error combine and agree that no one of them will trade with any producer or wholesaler who shall sell to a consumer within'the
trade range of any of them, quite another case is presented.
An act harmless when done by one may become a public
Wrong when done by many acting in concert, for it then

GRENADA. LUMBER CO.
217 U. S.

i.

MISSISSIPPI.

.441

Opiion of the Court.

takes on the form of a conspiracy, and may be prohibited. or
punished, if the result be :hurtful to the*public or to the individual against whom the concerted action i4 direted
Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 555, 556.
But the plaintiffs in error say that the action which they
have taken is purely defensive, and that they cannot maintain themselves as independent dealers supplying the consumer if the producers or wholesalers from whom they buy
may not be prevented from competing with them for the
direct trade of the consumer.
For the purpose of suppressing this competition they have
not stopped with an individual obligation to refrain from
dealing with one who sells within his own circle, and thereby
deprives him of a possible customer, but have agreed not to
deal with any one who makes sales to consumers, which sales
might have been made by any one of the seventy-seven independent members of the association. Thus they have
stripped themselves of all freedom of contract in order to
compel those against whom they have combined to elect
between their combined trade and that of consumers. That
such an agreement is one in restraint of trade is undeniable,
whatever the motive or necessity which has induced the
compact. Whether it would be an illegal restraint at common
law is not now for our determination. It is an illegal combination and conspiracy. under the Mississippi statute. That
is enough if the statute does not infringe the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The argument that the situation is one which justified the
defensive measures taken by the plaintiffs in error is'
one
which we need neither refute nor concede. Neither are we
required to consider any mere question of the expediency of
such a law. It is a regulation of commerce purely intrastate,
a subject as entirely under the control of the State as is the
delegated control over interstate commerce exercised by the
United States. The power exercised is the police power reserved to the States. The limitation upon its exercise con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the.Court.

217 U. S.

tained in the Federal Constitution is found in the Fourteenth
Amendment,- whereby no State may pass any law by which
a citizen is deprived of life, liberty or property without due
process of law. A like limitation upon the legislative power
will be found in the constitution of each State. That legislation might be so arbitrary or so irrational in depriving a
citizen of freedom of contract as to come under the condemnation of the Amendment may be conceded.
In dealing with certain Kansas legislation in regulation of
state commerce, which was claimed to be so extreme as to be
an unwarranted infringement of liberty of contract, this court,
in Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 457, said:
"Undoubtedly there is a certain freedom of contract which
cannot be destroyed by legislative enactment. In pursuance
of that freedom parties may seek to further their business
interests, and it may not be always easy to draw the line between those contracts which are beyond the reach of the
police power and those which are subject to prohibition or
restraint. But a secret arrangement, by which, under penalties, an apparently existing competition among all the
dealers in a community in one of the necessaries of life is
substantially destroyed, without any merging of interests
through partnership or incorporation, is one to which the
police power extends. This is as far as we need go in sustaining the judgment in this case."
We confine ourselves to so much of the act assailed as was
construed and applied in the present, case. If there should
arise a case in which this legislation is sought to be applied
where any interference with freedom of contract would be
beyond legislative restraint, it will be time enough for interference by the courts.
As observed in Smiley v. Kansas, where the breadth ot the
act was criticised, "Unless appellant can show that he himself has been wrongfully included in the terms of the law, he
can have no just ground of cbmplaint." The §ame principle
has been often announced by this court in many cases, the

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

last instance being in Citizens' National Bank v. Kentucky, an
opinion handed down with, and immediately following, this.
The excessive penalties provided by the Mississippi statutes have been urged as making the act unconstitutional under Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. No penalties were demanded •in-the present case, the State contenting itself with
abill in equity to dissolve the association. The penalty provisions. are plainly sep.rable from the section under which
such a combination is declared illegal. The penalty section
not being invoked, we are not called upon. to give any opinion
in respect to it. Unitcd States v. Delaware &c. R. Co., 213
U. S. 366, 417; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, handed down
April 4, ante, p. 114.
It is enough to say that the act as construed and applied
to the facts of this case by the Supreme Court of Mississippi
exhibits no such restraint upon liberty of contract as to violate the Federal Constitution. The decree must therefore be
Affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF
BOYLE COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALW OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 135.

Argued March 10, 1910.--Decided May 2, 191u.

An act assessing stockholders of national banks, although illegal as to a
class of stockholders not similarly taxed on shares in other moneyed
institutions, may be legal as to the class which is similarly taxed;
and so held that § 3 of the act of March 21, 1900, of Kentucky, providing for back assessments on shares of national banks, although
not legal as to non-resident stockholders, there having been no statute prior to 1900, providing for the assessing of stock of non-resident
stockholders of other moneyed corporations, is not illegal as to res-

