OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

MILWAUKEE ELECTRIC RAILWAY & LIGHT
COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
No. 233.

Argued April 20, 21, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

Where the fixing of rates does not impair the obligation of contracts,
the exercise by a municipality of a lawful power to fix rates does
not deprive the public utility company of its property without
due process of law where it does not appear that the rates fixed
are confiscatory.
The fixing of rates, which may be charged by public service corporations-in this case a street car corporation-is a legislative function
of the State.
While the State may enter into contracts preventing it for given periods
from exercising the function of rate making, such a renunciation
must be so clear and unequivocal as to permit no doubt of its construction. Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265.
While it is the duty of this court to determine for itself whether there
was a contract and the extent of a binding obligation, and the parties
are not concluded by the decision of the state court, in so determining
this court gives much consideration to the decisions of the state
court construing the statutes of the State under which the contract
is alleged to have been created.
In this case, as this court cannot say that the state statute involved
in this action unequivocally grants to municipalities the power to
deprive the legislature of the right to exercise the rate-making function in the future, and as the state court in other cases has held
that the statute did not indicate an intention to surrender such
right, this court affirms the judgment of the state court, holding
that no irrevocable contract was created by an ordinance establishing rates of fare of a street car company, notwithstanding that
a majority of the members of the highest court of the State did
not concur in that view in this case.
153 Wisconsin, 502, affirmed.

THE

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the

impairment of obligation clause of the Federal Constitu-

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. v. WISCONSIN R. R. COMM. 175
238 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

tion and the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of an order of the Wisconsin State Railroad Commission establishing fares upon the system of the plaintiff
in error, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry H. Pierce and Mr. Edwin S. Mack, with
whom Mr. George P. Miller, Mr. Arthur W. Fairchildand
Mr. William J. Curtis were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
This court will determine for itself the existence or nonexistence of the contract and whether the state law complained of impairs its obligation.
Where the effect of a change in decision detrimentally
affects contract rights, such rights will be determined
by the law as it existed when they accrued.
A State may not impair the obligation of its contracts.
The grant of a right to use the streets for railway purposes is a valuable property right.
The State may authorize a municipal corporation to
make an inviolable contract fixing rates to be charged by
a public utility.
The ordinance and its acceptance constitute, and were
intended to constitute, a contract between the State and
the Company definitely fixing rates during the term of
the franchise. The State had authorized the City to
make the contract. The State has reserved no power
to amend, alter or repeal the contract.
The order of the Commission violates the due process
clause, even if there were no question of contract.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts sustain
these contentions.
Mr. Walter Drew, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, with whom Mr. W. C. Owen, Attorney
General of the State of Wisconsin, and Mr. Lester C.
Manson were on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

238 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit originated in the Circuit Court of Dane
County, Wisconsin, and was brought by the Milwaukee
Electric Railway and Light Company against the Railroad
Commission of Wisconsin. The plaintiff, a street railway
company, organized under the laws of Wisconsin, and authorized to conduct a street railway business in the City
of Milwaukee, sought to enjoin the Railroad Commission,
organized under the laws of that State of 1905, from enforcing a certain order against the Company, whereby the
right of the Railway Company to charge fares upon its
railway system had been reduced below what it was contended had been previously fixed by an ordinance of the
City of Milwaukee, which, it was alleged, upon acceptance,
constituted an irrevocable contract between the Company
and the City. In the allegations of the complaint it appears that on January 2, 1900, there was granted to the
plaintiff the right to operate over certain streets, and in the
ordinances of that date all franchises expiring prior to
December 31, 1934, were extended to that date, and all
franchises which would otherwise expire subsequently to
that date were made to terminate at that time.
Section 6 of the ordinance provides:
"After the passage, publication and acceptance of this
ordinance by said railway company, the rate of fare for
one continuous passage upon the lines of railway within
said city limits of said city owned and operated by said
railway company constructed under any franchise herein,
heretofore or hereafter granted to said railway company
or its predecessors, successors or assigns, as the case may
be, shall be not to exceed five cents for a single fare, except
for children under ten years of age the rate of fare shall
be three cents for one child and five cents for two children,
and infants under three years of age free. Except where
cars or carriages shall be chartered at a special price, which

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. v. WISCONSIN R. R. COMM. 177
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fare shall entitle each passenger, upon demand made at
the time of payment of fare, to one transfer at established
points of transfer to any connecting or cross line of said
railway company, for passage within said city, and convenient points of transfer shall be maintained and such
additional points of transfer established as will carry 6ut
the full intent and purpose of this ordinance to maintain
and extend the transfer system now in force upon the lines
of said railway company at the present standard of convenience for the people of said city. Each transfer ticket,
shall be good only for the passenger to whom it is issued,
and for a continuous trip in the direction specified upon
the transfer so given, and upon the first car leaving the
transfer intersection after the time designated on such
transfer.
"Provided, however, that after the acceptance of the
terms of this ordinance the railway company shall, on
demand made at its office in said city, or to the conductors
on its cars operated on its lines within the corporate limits
of said city, sell tickets in packages of twenty-five for one
dollar or six for twenty-five cents, each of which tickets
shall entitle the holder thereof to use the same upon the
cars of said railway company only between the hours of
5:30 o'clock and 8 o'clock in the morning and between
the hours of 5 o'clock and 7 o'clock central standard time,
in the afternoon of each day until January 1, 1905, and
shall also entitle the holder to the same privileges as are
or may be accorded to passengers paying a cash fare of
five cents; and the said railway company shall, from and
after January 1, 1905, continue the sale of tickets in packages at the price aforesaid until December 31, 1934, each
to be good at all hours of the day, with the same privileges
as are or may be accorded to passengers paying a single
cash fare of five cents."
The bill sets out the acceptance of this ordinance, and
thereby it is claimed the Company obtained the right to
voL. ccxxxviii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

charge, until December 31, 1934, a cash fare of five cents,
and to sell tickets in packages of twenty-five for one dollar
or six for twenty-five cents, each of which tickets should
entitle the holder to use the same upon the cars between
the hours mentioned in the ordinance, and to have the
privileges accorded to passengers paying five cents fare.
In November, 1906, the City of Milwaukee filed a complaint with the defendant Railroad Commission for a
reduction of rates of fare, and filed a similar complaint
May 13th, 1908. This proceeding resulted in the order
complained of, which did not interfere with the cash fare
prescribed, but provided that the Company should discontinue its rate of twenty-five tickets for one dollar, and
should sell tickets in packages of thirteen for fifty cents,
which tickets were ordered to be accepted in payment of
fare. It is alleged that this action of the Railroad Commission impairs the obligation of the contract between the
City and the Company, and takes the plaintiff's property
without due process of law, in violation of § 10 of Article I
of the Constitution of the United States and of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto.
On the hearing in the court of first instance, it was held
that there was no contract made by the passage and ac-,
ceptance of the ordinance which we have quoted, and the
complaint was accordingly dismissed. Upon appeal to the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin that judgment was affirmed,
153 Wisconsin, 592. The case was heard before six judges
of that court. Three held that the statute upon which
the plaintiff relied as conferring authority upon a municipal corporation to make the contract in question did not
authorize the making of a contract which would prevent
the future exercise of the authority of the State to regulate
the rates of fare by legislative action. A fourth judge
expressed no view upon this phase of the case, specifically
holding that under the Wisconsin constitution there was
no power to delegate to municipal corporations an author-

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. v.WISCONSIN R. R. COMM. 179
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ity to make irrepealable contracts respecting rates. Two
of the judges dissented upon the ground that there was
an irrepealable contract, valid and binding between the
Company and the City, which was violated by the subsequent legislation creating and empowering the Railroad
Commission, and because of the action of that body in
reducing the rate of fare.,
In the view we take of the case it is unnecessary to pass
upon the question whether the ordinance had the effect
to make a contract binding between the City and the
Company until subsequent legislative action by the State,
or to decide whether, the grant of the rights and privileges
as to fares was, under the Wisconsin constitution, revocable at the will of the legislature.
. Section 1862 of the Revised Statutes of 1860 provides:
"Section 1862. Corporations for constructing, maintaining and operating street railways may be formed under
Chapter 86, and shall have powers and be governed accordingly. Any municipal corporation or county may
grant to any such corporation, under whatever law formed,
or to any person who has the right to construct, maintain
and operate street-railways the use, upon such terms as the
proper authorities shall determine, of any streets, parkways, or bridges within its limits for the purpose of laying
single or double tracks and running cars thereon for the
carriage of freight and passengers, to be propelled by
animals or such other power as shall be agreed on, with
all necessary curves, turnouts, switches andother conveniences. Every such road shall be constructed upon
the most approved plan and be subject to such reasonable
rules and regulhtions and the payment of such license
fees as the proper municipal authorities may by ordinance,
from time to time, prescribe. Any such grants heretofore
made -shall not be invalid by reason of any want of power
in such municipal corporation to grant, or any such rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

way corporation or person to take the same; but in such
respects are hereby confirmed."
The fixing of rates which may be charged by public
service corporations, of the character here involved, is a
legislative function of the State, and while the right to
make contracts which shall prevent the State during a
given period from exercising this important power has
been recognized and approved by judicial decisions, it has
been uniformly held in this court that the renunciation of
a sovereign right of this character must be evidenced by
terms so clear and unequivocal as to permit of no doubt as
to their proper construction: This proposition has been
so frequently declared by decisions of this court as to
render unnecessary any reference to the many cases in
which the doctrine has been affirmed. The principle involved was well stated by Mr. Justice Moody in Home
Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.265, 273:
"The surrender, by contract, of a power of government,
though in certain well-defined cases it may be made by
legislative authority, is a very grave act, and the surrender
itself, as well as the'authority to make it, must be closely
scrutinized. No other body than the supreme legislature
(in this case, the legislature of the State) has the authority
to make such a surrender, unless the authority is clearly
delegated to it by the supreme legislature. The general
powers of a municipality, or of any other political subdivision of the State are not sufficient. Specific authority
for that purpose ig required."
The Chief Justice of Wisconsin, who delivered the
opinion in which two other judges concurred, did not call
in question the right of the City to make a contract with
a public utility corporation, fixing the rates to be charged
for a definite period, which would bind the City itself,
but placed his decision upon the ground that the section
in question gave no distinct authority to the City to contract away the legislative authority of the State to fix tolls

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. v. WISCONSIN R. R. COMM. 181
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and fares, by lowering them if found to be excessive; that
while the term "grant" was used, he held the grant was
to be upon terms such as the municipal authorities might
determine, and that this language was more appropriate
to the exercise of power by the municipality than to the
making of a contract between parties. The language of
the section certainly lends itself to this construction, and
there is nothing in specific terms conferring the'right to
contract by agreement between parties, much less to make
such contract during its existence exclusive of any further
right of the State to act upon the subject in the exercise
of its legislative authority. It authorizes the grant of the
use of the streets upon such terms as the proper authorities shall determine, not upon such terms as the parties
in interest shall agree to.
Among cases in this court specially relied upon by the
plaintiff in error is Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Street Ry.,
184 U. S. 368. It was therein held, quoting constructions
of the Supreme Court of Michigan, that the legislation
involved authorized the making of a contract between the
City and the Street Railway Company, which the City
undertook to abrogate by subsequent ordinances; and the
fact that the legislature had not attempted to interfere
with the rights of the Street Railway Company in Detroit
was stated, and the extent of its power to interfere with
the rights of the Street Railway Company expressly held
not to be involved in the. case. In another case relied
upon by plaintiff in error, Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry.,
194 U. S.517, it was specifically stated (p. 534) that the
courts of Ohio had held that the acceptance of ordinances
of the character in question constituted a binding contract,
and the Ohio statute was set forth and held to expressly
authorize a binding contract for the period covered by
the statute. In the case of Minneapolis v. Minneapolis.
Street Ry., 215 U. S. 417, the ordinance which was held
to constitute a binding contract for the rates of fare pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

scribed therein, was specifically validated by an act of the
legislature of Minnesota subsequently passed.
It is true that this court has repeatedly held that the
discharge of the duty imposed upon it by the Constitution
to make effectual the provision that no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of a contract, requires
this court to determine for itself whether there is a contract, and the extent of its binding obligation, and parties
are not concluded in these respects by the determination
and decisions of the courts of the States. While this is so,
it has been frequently held that where a statute of a State
is alleged to create or authorize a contract inviolable by
subsequent legislation of the State, in determining its
meaning much consideration is given to the decisions of the
highest court of the State. Among other cases which have
asserted this principle are Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport,
180 U. S. 587, and Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Water Co., 206
U. S. 496, 509.
Both sides contend that the decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State have decided this controversy. The
plaintiff in error insists that it is governed by Linden Land
Co. v. Milwaukee Electric Ry. & Light Co., 107 Wisconsin,
493. In that case an injunction was sought by a tax-payer
and owner of property abutting upon the street, to enjoin
the Company from accepting the franchise and the state
officers from receiving the acceptance of the ordinance of
1900. The Linden Land Company and another, as taxpayers and owners of land abutting upon the street were
afterwards brought in as plaintiffs, and the court, speaking
of § 1862, said the City was empowered to grant the use
of streets and franchises to street railway companies upon
such terms as the proper authorities should determine,
and that that was a broad grant of discretionary powers,
and also said that in the character of suit then before ii,
the right to maintain it depended upon whether there had
been shown any wrongful squandering or surrender of the

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. v. WISCONSIN R. R. COMM. 183
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

moneys, property or property rights of the City, or unlawful increase of the burdens of taxation threatened by the
proposed ordinance, and hela that the claim that parties
had offered large sums of money for the franchise privileges granted to the Company, and that the Company
itself had offered to pay large sums of money in case the
City would grant the right to charge five cents fare until
the year 1935, did not sustain the allegation that there was
a squandering of the money and rights of the City, in
rejecting the offers and enacting the ordinance. We do
not find in this case any decision of the question here involved, as to whether the alleged contract between the
City and the Company would have the effect to deny, because of the provisions granting authority to the City in
§ 1862, the subsequent right of the legislature tO fix rates
binding upon the Company.
The Chief Justice in the opinion in the present case
regarded the construction of § 1862 as controlled by the
previous case of Manitowoc v. Manitowoc & N. T. Co., 145
Wisconsin, 13. In that case, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin used the following language, which is quoted with
approval by the Chief Justice in this case:
"No specific authority having been conferred on the
city to enter into the contract in question, the right of the
State to interfere whenever the public weal demanded was
not abrogated. The contract remained valid between the
parties to it until such time as the State saw fit to exercise
its paramount authority, and no longer. To this extent,
and to this extent only, is the contract before us a valid
subsisting obligation. It would be unreasonable to hold
that by enacting sec. 1862, Stats. (1898), or sec. 1863,
Stats. (Supp. 1906: Laws of 1901, ch. 425), the State intended to surrender its governmental power of fixing rates.
That power was only suspended until such time as the
State saw fit to act."
The Chief Justice further pointed out that § 1863, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

was in question in the Manitowoc Case, was substantially
the same as § 1862, involved in the present case, for while
§ 1863 authorized consent by municipal authorities to the
use of streets upon such terms and subject to such rules
and regulations and the payment of such license fees as
the council or board may from time to time prescribe, it
was the same in effect as § 1862, authorizing municipal
authorities to grant the use of streets upon such terms as
they shall determine, and concluded:
"We are of opinion, therefore, that the holding in the
Manitowoc Case, to the effect that neither section indicated
any legislative intention of surrendering the sovereign
power of the state to regulate fares, was entirely correct
and was advisedly made."
While it is true that the opinion of the Chief Justice in
this case was concurred in by only two other judges of the
six who sat on this appeal, in view of the decision of the
same court in the Manitowoc Case, we can have no doubt
that the judicial interpretation of § 1862 by the highest
court of the State of Wisconsin denies authority to municipal corporations to make contracts concluding the State
from the future exercise of its power to fix the rates which
may be charged by such public service corporations as
are here involved.
In view of the weight which this court gives in deciding
questions involving the construction of legislative acts to
decisions of the highest courts of the States in cases of
alleged contracts, and our own inability to say that this
statute unequivocally grants to the municipal authorities
the power to deprive the legislature of the right to exercise in the future an acknowledged function of great public
importance, we reach the conclusion that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in this case should be
affirmed.
We may observe that the contention of deprivation of
property without due process of law, is practically dis-

WASH.-VIRGINIA RY. v. REAL ESTATE TRUST.

185

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

posed of in what we have said. For if the State might
still exercise its authority to fix rates notwithstanding the
so-called contracting ordinance, the exercise of such lawful power could not deprive the plaintiff of property without due process.
Affirmed.

WASHINGTON-VIRGINIA RAILWAY COMPANY
v. REAL ESTATE TRUST COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 212.

Argued April 29, 30, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

Whether a corporation is doing business within a district so as to have
submitted itself to the jurisdiction, and was present therein so as to
warrant service of process upon it, depends in each case upon the
facts proved.
In this case, while the corporation operates railways outside of Pennsylvania and has its general office and keeps one of its bank accounts
outside of that State, it has an office in the Eastern District and that
State, where its president and treasurer reside, and has an office and
keeps bank accounts, within that District; and under all the circumstances of the case, held that the corporation defendant had submitted to the local jurisdiction, enjoyed the protection of the laws,
and therefore service within the District on its president was sufficient to give the District Court jurisdiction.

THE facts, which involve the question of whether the
plaintiff in error had been properly served with process so
as to give the District Court jurisdiction of the action,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. John S.
Barbour and Mr. Norman Grey were on the brief, for

plaintiff in error.

