KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. v. LESLIE. -99
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

peatedly held could not be done, and makes the owner
contribute to a liquidation of special injuries his share of
the general benefits derived from the construction and
operation of the road."
As the effect of the judgment below was to permit the
plaintiffs to be paid for valuable property rights in general
benefits, in my opinion it necessarily follows that plaintiffs'
property was taken without due process of law, and therefore in violation of the protection afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

and MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY concur in this dissent.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. LESLIE, ADMINISTRATOR OF OLD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 538.

Argued April 22, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Under the Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 and ยง 28,.
Judicial Code, a cause brought in a state court of competent jurisdiction under the Employers' Liability Act cannot be removed to a
Federal court upon the sole ground of diversity of citizenship.
Under the Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 there can be a
recovery for pecuniary loss to the widow and children of decedent
and also for conscious pain and suffering endured by decedent in the
period, even though brief,-in this case about two hours-between

injury and death. St. Louis, Iron Mtn. & Southern Ry. v. Craft,
237 U. S. 648.
Even though the declaration may set up distinct and independent
liabilities springing from one wrong-as for the suffering endured
before death and the death itself-in an action under the Employers'
Liability Act, in the state court the jury need not, if it is in accord

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

with local practice, specify the different amounts awarded for the
suffering before death and the death itself.
Under the Employers' Liability Act the recovery of pecuniary damages
by the personal representative of the deceased is in trust for the
beneficiaries designated by the act and must be based upon their
actual pecuniary loss.
112 Arkansas, 305, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict
and judgment for damages for personal injuries obtained
in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James B. McDonough, with whom Mr. Samuel W.
Moore and Frank H. Moore were on the brief, for plaintiff, in error.
Mr. W. P. Feazel for defendant in error:
No Federal question arises in the denial of the petition
for removal.
There was no denial of any Federal question or immunity in the refusal to direct a verdict for plaintiff in
error.
There was no denial of any Federal right in refusing
instructions.
The claim of the Federal right or immunity arising
from the refused instructions is too general and indefinite
to give this court jurisdiction.
The claim of immunity set forth in the requested instructions is not granted by -the- Acts of Congress referred to or by the rules or orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
There is another and independent ground of negligence
adequate to sustain the judgment.
There was no denial of any Federal right in any instructions given nor do the rulings of the court in regard
thereto. or to admitting and excluding testimony involve

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. v. LESLIE.
238 .U.
S.

601

Opinion of the Court.

any Federal question. There was no denial of any Federal right in excluding rules of the Interstate Commerce
Commission as evidence.
*There was no denial of any Federal rights in refusing
to disturb the verdict on either of. these grounds.
An excessive verdict does not involve a Federal question.
No question as to the form of the verdict was raised
or decided in the lower court.
General objections to instruction on measure of damages are not Sufficient to raise the question that the infant
child was permitted to recover damages after maturity.
As to the failure of the jury to apportion damages,
that question is not raised or decided by the lower court.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts support
these contentions.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In May, 1913, Sam E. Leslie, administrator, brought
this suit under the Federal Employers' Liability -Act
(35 Stat. 65), as amended April 5, 1910 (36 Stat. 291),
against the Kansas City Southern Railway Company
in .the Circuit Court, Little River County, Arkansas,
alleging that the injury and death of Leslie Old (March 24,
1913) resulted from its negligence, and demanding $10,000
for pain and suffering endured by deceased and $15,000
pecuniary damage to the wife and young child. The.
Company unsuccessfully sought to remove the case; there
was trial to a jury and verdict for $25,000 without apportionment, -a remittiturof $7,000, and a final unqualified
judgment in favor of the administrator for $18,000,
which the Supreme Court of Arkansas affirmed (112
Arkansas, 305). Three substantial assignments of error
demand consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

1. The deceased and his administrator were citizens
and residents of Arkansas. The Railway Company, a
Missouri corporation, seasonably set up non-residence
and demanded removal of the cause to the United States
District Court. Its petition therefor was denied and
this is now assigned as error.
The above-mentioned amendment of 1910 declares:
"The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
under this Act shall be concurrent with that of the courts
of the several States, and no case arising under this Act
and brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction
shall be removed to any court of the United States."
Section 28, Judicial Code, effective January 1, 1912,
specifies causes removable from state courts by nonresident defendants and concludes: "Provided, That no
case arising under an act entitled 'An act relating to the
liability of common carriers by railroad to their employ~s. in certain cases, approved April twenty-second,
nineteen hundred and eight, or any amendment thereto,
and brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the United States."
The language of both amendmefit and Judicial Code,
we think, clearly inhibits removal of a cause arising under
the Act from a state court upon the sole ground of diversity of citizenship. The same conclusion has been announced frequently by lower Federal courts. Symonds
v. St. Louis &c. Ry., 192 Fed. Rep. 353, 356; Strauser
v. Chicago &c. R. R., 193 Fed. Rep. 293, 294; Saiek v.
Penna. R. R., 193 Fed. Rep. 303; Lee v. Toledo &c. Ry.,
193 Fed. Rep. 685, 686; Ullrich v. N. Y., N. H. & H. Ry.,
193 Fed. Rep. 768, 770; Hulac v. Chicago &c. Ry., 194
Fed. Rep. 747, 749; McChesney v. Illinois Central R. R.,
197 Fed. Rep. 85, 87; De Atley v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.,
201 Fed. Rep. 591, 596; Kelly's Adm'x v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry., 201 Fed. Rep. 6.02, 605; Rice v. Boston & Maine
R. R. Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 580, 581; Teel v. Chesapeake &

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. v. LESLIE.
238 U. S.

603

Opinion of the Court.

0. Ry. of Virginia, 204 Fed. Rep. 918, 921; Patton v.
Cincinnati&c. Ry., 208 Fed. Rep. 29, 30; Eng v. Southern
Pacific Co., 210 Fed. Rep. 92, 93; Burnett v. Spokane &c.
Ry., 210 Fed. Rep. 94, 95. A different view expressed
in Van Brimmer v. Tex. & Pac. Ry., 190 Fed. Rep. 394,
decided October, 1911, cannot be accepted.
2. It is said the court below erred in approving the
charge permitting recovery for pecuniary loss to widow
and child and also for conscious pain and suffering endured
by deceased in the brief period-less than two hours-between injury and his death. This point having been
considered the right to recover for both these reasons in one
suit was recently sustained. St. Louis, Iron Mtn. &c.
Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S.648 [announced June 1, 1915].
It is further objected that as the declaration set up two
distinct and independent liabilities springing ' from one
wrong but based upon different principles, the jury should
have been directed to specify in their verdict the amount
awarded, if any, in respect of each. This objection must
be overruled. Of course, in causes arising under this
statute trial courts should point out applicable principles
with painstaking care and diligently exercise their full
powers to prevent unjust results; but its language does
not expressly require the jury to report what was assessed
by them on account of each distinct liability, and in view
of the prevailing contrary practice in similar proceedings
we cannot say that a provision to that effect is necessarily
implied. As the challenged verdict seems in harmony
with local practice and has been approved by the courts
below the judgment thereon is not open to attack here
upon the ground specified.
S. Complaint is also made of the following instruction-No. 10-given at the administrator's instance:
"If you find for the plaintiff, you should assess the damages at such sum as you believe from a preponderance of
the evidence would be a fair compensation for the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

scious pain and suffering, if any, the deceased underwent
from the time of his injury until his death and such further sum as you find from the evidence will be a fair and
just compensation with reference to the pecuniary loss
resulting from decedent's death to his widow and child;
and in fixing the amount of such pecuniary loss, you should
take into consideration the age, health, habits, occupation,
expectation of life, mental and physical disposition to
labor, the probable increase or diminution of that ability
with the lapse of time and the deceased's earning power
and rate of wages. From the amount thus ascertained
the personal expenses of the deceased should be deducted
and the remainder reduced to its present value should be
the amount of contribution for which plaintiff is entitled
to recover, if. your verdict should be for the plaintiff."
The Arkansas Supreme Court- expressly. approved this
upon authority of Railway Co. v. Sweet, 60 Arkansas, 550.
Recent opinions of this court have laid down the. rule
concerning the measure of pecuniary damages to beneficiaries which may be recovered under the Act. A recovery
therefor by the administrator is in trust for designated
individuals and must be based upon their actual pecuniary
loss. Michigan Cent. R. R. v. Vreeland, 22; U S. 59, 68;
American Railroadv. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145, 149; Gulf,
Colorado &c. Ry. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173, 175; North
CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 256, 257; Norfolk
& Western Ry. v. Holbrook, 235 U. S. 625, 629. Instruction No. 10 conflicts with the approved rule and the
probable result was materially to prejudice plaintiff in
error's rights.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

