OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

four bank accounts in separate banks in the city of Phila'delphia, where money was deposited and checked out in
payment of mortgages, dividends, and the larger bills
of the company. Such business of the company as required his attention at the Philadelphia office was there
transacted by the president. Checks for payment of bills
of the company at Washington were drawn at Philadelphia
and forwarded to Washington.
We think the mere recital of these facts makes it evident
that the corporation was properly served. It had submitted itself to the local jurisdiction, and there enjoyed
the protection of the laws. In that jurisdiction by duly
authorized agents it was at the time of service transacting
an essential and material part of its business.
It follows that the judgment of the District Court,
maintaining its jurisdiction, must be
Affirmed.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF WHITLEY COUNTY, STATE
OF KENTUCKY.
No. 271.

Argued May 10, 11, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

The first resort, with a view to ascertaining the meaning of a statute,
is to the language used; if that is plain there is an end to construction
and the statute is to be taken to mean what it says.
The purpose of Congress in enacting the Webb-Kenyon Act of March 1,
1913, c. 90, 37 Stat. 69, was not to prohibit all interstate shipment
or transportation of liquor into so-called dry territory, but to render
the prohibitory provisions of the statute operative whenever, and
only when, the liquor is to be dealt with in violation of the law of

the State into which it is shipped.

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Except as affected by the Wilson Act of 1890, which permits state
laws to operate on interstate shipments of liquor after termination
of transportation to the consignee and the Webb-Kenyon Act of
1913, which prohibits interstate transportation of liquor into a
State to be dealt with therein in violation of the laws of that State,
the interstate transportation of liquor is left untouched and remains
within the sole jurisdiction of Congress under the Federal Constitution.
As it appears that an interstate shipment of liquor into Kentucky
was not to be used in violation of the laws of that State as such laws
have been construed by its highest court, the Webb-Kbnyon Act
had no effect to change the general rule that a State may not regulate commerce which is wholly interstate.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 2569a of the statutes of Kentucky in regard to
local option and of the Act of Congress known as the
Webb-Kenyon Law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell for
plaintiff in error:
A citizen of Kentucky has the constitutional right to
possess and use intoxicating liquors.
The cases in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky upheld
this right as well as the cases in other States.
The Webb-Kenyon Law does not authorize the application of a state statute to an interstate shipment for lawful,
personal use.
The purpose of the law as shown by debates in Congress
and the cases in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky and
other courts also so hold.
There are conflicting opinions on the subject, involving
the West Virginia law; on which appeals are pending in
this court.
The cases involving imported liquors intended to 'be
used in violation of law can be distinguished.
The Webb-Kenyon Law, as construed and applied by
the lower court, would be unconstitutional.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

In support of these contentions, see Adams Exp. Co. v.
Kentucky, 214 U. 3. 218; Adams Exp. Co. v. Commonwealth,
154 Kentucky, 462; Adams Exp. Co. v. Commonwealth,
160 Kentucky, 66; Adams Exp. Co. v. Crigler, 161 Kentucky, 89; American Exp. Co. v. Beer, 65 So. Rep. 575;
Anderson Net Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Atkinson
v. Southern Exp. Co., 94 S. Car. 44; Bristol Distributing
Co. v. Southern Exp. Co. (Sup. Ct. App. of Virginia, unreported); Calhoun v. Commonwealth, 154 Kentucky, 70;
Clark Distilling Co. v. American Exp. Co., 219 Fed. Rep.
339; Clark Distilling Co. v. West. Maryland Ry., 219 Fed.
Rep. 333; Commonu ealth v. Campbell, 133 Kentucky, 50;
Commonwealth v. 3'mith, 163 Kentucky, 227; Delaware
v. Grier, 88 Atl. Rep. 579; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.
244; Dunlap v. United States, 173 U. S. 65; Eidge v.
Bessemer, 164 Alabama, 599; Hamm Brewing Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 215 Fed. Rep. 672; Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457; Iowa v. U. S.
Exp. Co., 145 N. W. Rep. 451; Johnson v. Southern
Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 19; Kansas v. Doe, 92 Kansas,
212; Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568; Louis. & Nash.
R. R. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70; Martin v.
Commonwealth, 153 Kentucky, 784; North Carolina v.
Cardwell, 166 N. Car. 308; North Carolinav. Williams, 146
N. Car. 618; Palmer v. Southern Exp. Co., 165 S. W. Rep.
236; Ex parte Peede, 170 S. W. Rep. 749; In re Rahrer,
140 U. S. 155; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Smith v.
Southern Exp. Co., 82 S. E. Rep. 15; Southern Exp. Co.
v. Alabama, 66 So. Rep. 115; Southern Exp. Co. v. High
Point, 83 S. E. Rep. 254; United States v. Oregon Navigation Co., 210 Fed. Rep. 378; Vance v. Vandercook (1), 170
U. S. 439; VanWinkle v. State, 91 Atl. Rep. 385; West
Virginiav. Adams Exp. Co., 219 Fed. Rep. 331 and 794.
See also Committee on Judiciary hearings, January 11,
1912; Congressional Record, Feb. 8, 1913, p. 365; Freund
on Police Power, § 453; Kentucky Criminal Code, § 347;

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky Statutes, § 2569a; Webb-Kenyon Law, 37 Stat.
699.
Mr. James Garnett,Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, with whom Mr. Robert T. Caldwell, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, was on the brief, for
defendant in error.
Mr. W. B. Wheeler and Mr. J. B. Snyder filed a brief as
amicus curie by permission of the court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Adams Express Company was indicted for violation
of J. 2569a of the statutes of the State of Kentucky, which,
omitting the portions not essential to the consideration of
this case, provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any . . . public or private
carrier to bring into, . . . deliver or distribute, in any
county, district, precinct, town or city, where the sale of
intoxicating liquors has been prohibited, . . . any
spirituous, vinous, malt or other intoxicating liquor, regardless of the name by which it may be called; and this
act shall apply to all packages of such intoxicating liquors
whether broken or unbroken. . . . Any
public or private carrier violating the provisions of this
act shall be deemed guilty of violating the local option
law and shall be fined not less than fifty nor more than one
hundred dollars for each offense. . . . And the place
of delivery of such liquors shall be held to be the place
of sale;
"
The charge of the indictment was that the Adams Express Company, doing the business of a common carrier
in Kentucky, did knowingly bring into and deliver in
Whitley County of that State certain intoxicating liquors
to one John Horshaw, contrary to law. This case, with
voL. ccxxxvuii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

eighteen others, was heard in the Circuit Court of Whitley
County, upon an agreed statement of facts, which stipulated that the Adams Express Company was engaged in
the business of a common carrier and did such business in
Whitley County, Kentucky, and between that county
and the cities of Jellico and High Cliff, in the State of
Tennessee. That on the dates named in the indictments
the Adams Express Company knowingly brought into,
transferred, delivered and distributed certain spirituous
liquors, to wit: whiskey, in local option territory and where
the local option law was in force, as charged in the indictment. That before bringing such liquors into such territory the consignees of said liquors, being the persons named
in the indictment, sent orders by mail for such liquors to
dealers at Jellico and High Cliff, in the State of Tennessee,
and paid the purchase price of said liquors to said dealers
at the places named in Tennessee. That upon receipt of
the orders, the dealers, at their respective places of business at Jellico aud High Cliff, Tennessee, for the purpose
of filling such orders delivered to Adams Express the
several packages of liquor, directing the Express Company
to carry and deliver the same to such persons; that the
Adams Express Company did thereupon carry said packages of liquor from Jellico and High Cliff, in Tennessee,
into Whitley County, Kentucky, and there delivered the
same to the consignees thereof, who were the persons who
had made the orders and to whom the indictments charged
the defendant with delivering and distributing the liquors
mentioned. That the liquors were intended by said consignees for their personal use and were so used by them,
and were not intended by them to be sold contrary to law,
and were not so sold by them. That the transactions and
all of them described occurred since the enactment and
-going into effect of the Act of Congress known as the
Webb-Kenyon Law.
The Express Company requested a peremptory instruc-

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion for a verdict of not guilty because the shipments of
liquor were interstate shipments and constituted interstate commerce within the meaning of the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. That the liquors being for
the personal use of the consignees respectively § 2659a
is repugnant to the constitution of Kentucky, and if the
indictment was authorized by the Act of Congress known
as the Webb-Kenyon Law, that law is in contravention
of the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States and of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. This request for a peremptory
instruction for the defendant was refused. The court instructed the jury that .if it believed from the evidence.
that the Adams Express Company, as a common carrier,
brought any spirituous, vinous or malt liquors into Whitley County, being local option territory in the State of
Kentucky, and there delivered the same to the persons
named in the indictment, then the defendant was guilty
and its punishment should be fixed at not less than fifty
dollars nor more than one hundred dollars; and that upon
the whole case if they had any reasonable doubt of the
guilt of the Company they should find a verdict of not
guilty. The defendant duly excepted to the giving of these
instructions and to the refusal to grant its prayer for a
peremptory instruction. The Company *as convicted,
and fined in the sum of fifty dollars. That amount not
being sufficient to give the Court of Appeals of the State
jurisdiction, a writ of error was taken from this court to
the Circuit Court i6f Whitley County.
The Kentucky statute now under consideration was
before this court in the case of Louis. & Nash. R; R. Co.
v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70. In that case it was held
that, as applied to interstate shipments, the statute was
void as an attempt by the State to regulate commerce
among the States. Such must still be the fate of the statute unless it is the effect of the Act of Congress of March 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

1913, c. 90, 37 Stat. 699, known as the Webb-Kenyon Act,
to require a different result. That Act provides:
"An Act Divesting Intoxicating Liquors of Their Interstate Character in Certain Cases.
"Be it enacted, &c., that the shipment or transportation, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of any
spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or other intoxicating liquor of any kind, from one State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place non-contiguous to bUt
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, into any other State,
Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, or
from any foreign country into any State, Territory, or
District of the United States, or place non-contiguous to
but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, which said spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or other intoxicating
liquor is intended, by any person interested therein, to be
received, possessed, sold, or in any manner used, either
in the original package or otherwise, in violation of any
law of such State, Territory, or District of the United
States, or place non-contiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, is hereby prohibited."
Before entering upon a consideration of the meaning
of this act, it is well to have in mind certain principles of
constitutional law and, as well, certain legislation of Congress upon this subject in force at the time when the
Webb-Kenyon Act was passed. The Constitution of the
United States grants to Congress authority to regulate
commerce among the States, to the exclusion of state
control over the subject. This power is comprehensive,
and subject to no limitations, except such as are found
in the Constitution itself. This general principle runs
through all the cases decided in this court considering the
matter, and has never been questioned since Chief Justice
Marshall, for the court, delivered the judgment in Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. Applying this general principle,

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it was held by this court in Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100,
that the State of Iowa, in the absence of congressional
permission, had no authority to prohibit the sale of liquor
in original packages in the hands of importers from other
States in that State, and the court there declared that,
whatever the individual views of its members might be
concerning the deleterious qualities of certain articles of
commerce, when such articles were recognized by Congress
as legitimate subjects of interstate commerce such interstate traffic could not be controlled by the laws of the
State amounting to regulations thereof. In the course
of the consideration of this case, this court said (pp. 123,
124):
"The responsibility is upon Congress, so far as the regulation of interstate commerce is concerned, to remove the
restriction upon the State in dealing with imported articles
of trade within its limits, which have not been mingled
with the common mass of property therein, if in its judgment the end to be secured justifies and requires such
action."
After the decision of Leisy v. Hardin, Congress passed
the Wilson Act of 1890, 26 Stat. 313. That act made
intoxicating liquors transported in interstate commerce
subject to the exercise of the police power of the States
upon arrival in the State, in the same manner as though
such liquors had been produced in the State or Territory
into which the same were shipped. The constitutionality
of that act was attacked and came under consideration
in this court in In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, where the law
was upheld. In affirming the right of Congress to pass
the statute, this court said (p. 561):
"In so doing, Congress has not attempted to delegate
the power to regulate commerce, or to exercise any power
reserved to the States, or to grant a power not possessed
by the States, or to adopt state laws. It has taken its
own course and made its own regulation, applying to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

these subjects of interstate commerce one common rule,
whose uniformity is not affected by variations in state
laws in dealing with such property.
"(P. 564) Congress did not use terms of permission to
the State to act, but simply removed an impediment to
the enforcement of the state laws in respect to imported
packages in their original condition, created by the absence of a specific utterance on its part. It imparted no
power to the State not then possessed, but allowed imported property to fall at once upon arrival within the
local jurisdiction."
In Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, it was held that the
Wilson Act did not have the effect to permit interstate
shipments of liquor to come under the operation of the
liquor laws of the State until after their delivery to the
consignee, and that one receiving liquor shipped in interstate commerce obtained the right to use the same, although he no longer had the right to sell it free from the
restrictions imposed by the laws of the State. And see
Vance v. Vandercook, 170 U. S. 438.
From what we have said, it follows that, before the
passage of the Webb-Kenyon Act, while the State in the
exercise of its police power might regulate the liquor
traffic after the delivery of the liquor transported in interstate commerce, there was nothing in the Wilson Act to
prevent shipment of liquor in interstate commerce for the
use of the consignee, provided he did not undertake to sell
it in violation of the laws of the State. The history of the
Webb-Kenyon Act shows that Congress deemed this situation one requiring further legislation upon its part, and
thereupon undertook, in the passage of that Act, to deal
further with the subject, and to extend the prohibitions
against the introduction of liquors into the Stateg by
means of interstate commerce. That the act did not assume to deal with all interstate commerce shipments of
intoxicating liquors into prohibitory territory in the States

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is shown in its title, which expresses the purpose to divest
intoxicating liquors of their interstate character in certain
cases. What such cases should be was left to the text of
the act to develop.
It is elementary that the first resort, with a view to
ascertaining the meaning of a statute, is to the language
used. If that is plain there is an end to construction and
the statute is to be taken to mean what it says.
Extraneous words omitted, this statute reads: "The
shipment or transportation of . . . intoxicating liqours from one State . . . into another State
which intoxicating liquor is intended by any person interested therein to be received, possessed, sold, or in any
manner used, either in the original package or otherwise,
in violation of any law of such State . . . is hereby
prohibited." It would be difficult to frame language
more plainly indicating the purpose of Congress not to
prohibit all interstate shipment or transportation of liquor
into so-called dry territory and to render the prohibition
of the statute operative only where the liquor is to be
dealt with in violation of the local law of the State into
which it is thus shipped or transported. Such shipments
are prohibited only when such person interested intends
that they shall be possessed, sold or used in violation of
any law of the State wherein they are received. Thus
far and no farther has Congress seen fit to extend the prohibitions of the act in relation to interstate shipments.
Except as affected by the Wilson Act, which permits the
state laws to operate upon liquors after termination of
the transportation to the consignee, and the Webb-Kenyon
Act, which prohibits the transportation of liquors into the
State to be dealt with therein in violation of local law, the
subject-matter of such interstate shipment is left untouched and remains within the sole jurisdiction of Congress under the Federal Constitution.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire whether a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

shipment of the character here in question comes within
the terms of the Webb-Kenyon Act, because of the purpose to use the liquor in violation of the law of the State
of Kentucky. The stipulation upon which the case was.
tried shows that the liquor was bought and paid for in
Tennessee, and was shipped from that State into the
State of Kentucky for the personal use of the consignee
without any intention on his part to dispose of it contrary
to the law of the State.
The case under review was one of nineteen tried under
the same stipulation. In one of them the fine imposed
was large enough to give jurisdiction to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and the case before that court is found
in 154 Kentucky, 462. Considering whether such shipment was in violation of the law of the State, that court,
after commenting upon the fact that the stipulation
showed that the liquors were intended by the consignees
for their personal use and were not intended by them
to be sold and were not sold, contrary to law, further said:
"This being the purpose for which the liquor was intended to be received, possessed and used, it is clear that
the consignees who received from the carrier the liquor did
not, in so doing, violate or intend to violate any law of
this state, because there is not and never has been any
law of this state that prohibited the citizen from purchasing, where it was lawful to sell it, intoxicating liquor for
his personal use, or from having in his possession for such
use liquor so purchased. Calhoun v. Commonwealth, 154
Kentucky, 70; Martin v. Commonwealth, 153 Kentucky,
784. As said in Commonwealth v. Campbell, 133 Kentucky, 50:
"'The history of our state from its beginning shows that
there was never even the claim of a right on the part of the
Legislature to interfere with the citizen using liquor for
his own comfort, provided that in so doing he committed
no offense against public decency by being intoxicated;

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and we are of opinion that it never has been within the
competency of the Legislature to so restrict the liberty of
the citizen, and certainly not since the adoption of the
present Constitution. The Bill of Rights, which declared
that among the inalienable rights possessed by the citizens
is that of seeking and pursuing their safety and happiness,
and that the absolute and arbitrary power over the lives,
liberty, and property of freemen exists nowhere in a
republic, not even in the largest majority, would be but
an empty sound if the Legislature could prohibit the
citizen the right of owning or drinking liquor, when in
so doing he did not offend the laws of decency by being
intoxicated in public. .....
Therefore the question
of what a man will drink, or eat, or own, provided the
rights of others are not invaded, is one which addresses
itself alone to the will of the citizen. It is not within the
competency of government to invade the privacy of a
citizen's life and to regulate his conduct in matters in
which he alone is concerned, or to prohibit him any
liberty the exercise of which will not directly injure
society.'"
And further,
"It, therefore, appears that the issue in this case really
comes down to this, was the liquor involved in this transaction intended by any person interested therein to be
received, possessed, sold or in any manner used in violation
of any law of this state? It is shown by the agreed state
of facts, when considered in the light of the Constitution
and laws of the state, and the opinions of this court, that
it was not."
In the subsequent case of Adams Express Company v.
Commonwealth, 160 Kentucky, 66, it appeared that the
liquor was intended by the consignee to be sold in violation of the law of the State, and was so sold, and the court
held that in such case the carrier was bound before the
delivery of the whiskey, to be circumspect and to use

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

ordinary care to learn the purpose for which it was to be
used, and if, acting in good faith upon reasonable grounds,
the carrier was misled, it was not liable, otherwise it was;
and that the question was one of fact for the jury. The
court, however, expressly adhered to its ruling in Express
Co. v. Commonwealth, 154 Kentucky, supra, under facts
such as were there presented, and such as appear in the
case now under consideration.
It therefore follows that, inasmuch as the facts of this
case show that the liquor was not to be used in violation
of the laws of the State of Kentucky, as such laws are
construed by the highest court of that State, the WebbKenyon Law has no application and no effect to change
the general rule that the States may not regulate commerce
wholly interstate. As it appears that the conviction in
this case was for an interstate transportation, not prohibited by the Webb-Kenyon Act, the rights under the
interstate commerce clause of the Constitution expressly
set up by the Express Company were denied by the judgment of conviction in the Circuit Court of Whitley County,
and that judgment must accordingly be reversed.
Reversed.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 2. Original.

Argued April 27, 28, 29, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

This controversy being one between States, referred to this court in
reliance upon the honor and constitutional obligations of the parties,
it has been determined only after, the amplest' opportunity for
hearing and with full recognition of every existing equity.
West Virginia is entitled to have the assets in the Virginia sinking fund

