OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

under attack. Corporations, unlike individuals, derive
their very right to exist from the laws of the State; they
have perpetual succession; and they act only by agents,
and often under circumstances where the agency is not
manifest. The legislature may reasonably have concluded
that, for these and other reasons, corporations axe peculiarly apt instruments for establishing and effectuating
those trusts and combinations against which the prohibition of the statute is directed, that their business
affiliations are not so easily discovered and traced as those
of individuals, and that there was therefore a peculiar
necessityf and fitness in annually requiring from each
corporation a solemn assurance of its non-participation
in the prohibited practices. The Act is, in this respect,
fairly within the wide range of discretion that the States
enjoy in the matter of classification. Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642, 650, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

ATCHISON,

TOPEKA & SANTA Ft RAILWAY
COMPANY v. VOSBURG.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WVANSAS.
No. 189.

Submitted March 10, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Legislation requiring the prompt furnishing of cars by carriers and the
prompt loading of same by shippers and prescribing damages and
penalties for failure on the part of either, is properly, within the
police power of the State; in that respect such legislation differs from
that which simply imposes penalties on the carrier for failure to
pay a specified class of debts, Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, distinguished.
A police regulation is, the same as any other statute of the State, subject to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

ATCHISON & SANTA FP RY. v. VOSBURG.
238 U. S.

57

Opinion of the Court.

That guarantee, while not preventing proper classification, does entitle all persons and corporations within the jurisdiction of the State
to the protection of equal laws, including police regulations.

A state statute which imposes reciprocal burdens on both carrier and
shipper, but which provides that in the case of delinquency on the
part of the carrier the shipper may recover an attorney fee, but in the
case of delinquency on the part of the shipper does not provide that
the carrier may recover an attorney fee, denies the carrier the equal
protection of the law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

Such a classification is not a reasonable one and there is no ground on
which a special burden should be imposed on one class of litigants

and not on another class identically situated.
89 Kansas, 114, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
reciprocal demurrage law of Kansas of 1905 under the
equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. GardinerLathrop, Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. William
R. Smith and Mr. William Osmond for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Arthur M. Jackson and Mr. Wilber E. Broadie for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question involved in this case is concisely
stated in the opening paragraph of the opinion of the
'Supreme Court of Kansas (89 Kansas, 114), whose judgment we have under review:
!'Chapter 345 of the laws of 1905, as amended by chapter 275 of the laws of 1907 [Gen. Stat. 1909, ยง 7201 et seq.],
concerns the 'furnishing of cars by railway companies to
shippers of freight. When cars applied for under this statute are not duly furnished, the railway company is liable
to the shipper for all actual damages suffered, for a penalty
of five dollars per day for each car not supplied, and for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

reasonable attorney fee. Shippers who fail to use cars
placed at their disposal are subject-to a penalty for their
detention, but are not liable for attorney fees. The plaintiff [Vosburg] recovered a judgment against the defendant
for a violation of this statute, including an attorney fee,
and the defendant appeals on the ground that the provision relating to attorney fees denies it the equal protection
of the law guaranteed by the Federal Constitution."
Upon a review of certain decisions of this court, viz.,
Gulf, Colorado & Santa F6 Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96;
Fidelity Mutual Life Assoc. v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308, and
Farmers' &c. Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301, the state
court held (p. 130), that since the Act in question is a
police regulation prescribing duties properly enforceable
by penalties in the form of per diem forfeits and attorney
fees recoverable in suitable actions, and because of the control of, railroad companies over their cars, their capacity
to disturb and obstruct trade, and the helplessness of
shippers when cars are carelessly or arbitrarily withheld,
railroad companies might properly be placed in a class by
themselves for the purpose of securing sufficient car service, and that the equal protection of the law required no
more than that all railway companies should be penalized
alike. The court, in conclusion, said: "It is true that
shippers may offend somewhat by failing to make expeditious use of cars when furnished them. Whether or
not they too shall be penalized, and if so to what extent,
is a fit subject for legislative consideration. But the railroad companies cannot [complain] if the legislature chooses
to exempt shippers from any punishment, or chooses to
prescribe some penalty suitable to the nature of their delinquency, but different from that imposed upon the companies themselves."
The enactment in question is commonly called the "reciprocal" or "mutual" demurrage law. (82 Kansas, 260;

ATCHISON & SANTA F
238 U. S.

RY. v. VOSBURG.

59

Opinion of the Court.

85 Kansas, 282.) It provides that a railway company
failing to furnish cars upon proper application shall pay, to
the party applying, "five dollars-per day for each car failed
to be furnished as exemplary damages,
.
and all
actual damages that such applicant may sustain for each
car failed to be furnished, together with reasonable
attorney-fees." At the same time it requires the applicant
to load the cars within 48 hours after they are placed, "and
upon failure to do so he shall pay to the company the sum
of five dollars per day for each car not used, while held
subject to the applicant's order.
. . And if the said
applicant shall not use such cars so ordered by him, and
shall so notify the said company or, its agent, he shall
forfeit and pay to the said railroad company, in addition
to the penalty herein prescribed, the actual damages that
such company may sustain by the said failure of the said
applicant to use said cars."
We agree that this legislation is properly to be regarded
as a police regulation, and in that respect differs from the
act that was under consideration in the Ellis Case, supra,
which simply imposed a penalty upon railroad corporations for a failure to pay certain debts. But we cannot at
all agree that a police regulation is not, like any other law,
subject to the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.. Nothing to that effect was held or intimated
in any of the cases referred to. The 'constitutional guaranty entitles all persons and corporations within the jurisdiction of the State to the protection of equal laws, in
this' as in other departments of legislation. It does not
prevent classification, but does require that classification
shall be reasonable, not arbitrary, and that it shall rest
upon distinctions having a fair and substantial relation to
the object sought to be accomplished by the legislation.
Thus, in Atchison, Topeka &c. R. R. Co. v. Matthews,
supra, the responsibility imposed upon railroad companies
for attorneys' fees in addition to damages was sustained

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

because designed to enforce care on the part of those companies to prevent the communication of fire and the destruction 'of property along- their lines,-a duty imposed
upon them and not upon the owners of the property. We
need not review the decisions; the subject being so familiar
that extended discussion is unnecessary.
The precise question now presented is: What is there in
the object of the legislation under consideration that furnishes a ground of distinction between railway company
and shipper upon which it is reasonable to say that the latter should be allowed to recover attorney fees when it successfully sues the former, and not vice versa? The statute
recognizes that the duty of the company to promptly furnish cars, and the duty of the shipper to promptly use
them, are reciprocal, and for a breach of either duty the
delinquent is penalized in favor of the other party in precisely the same amount-five dollars.per day per car. The
shipper may also recover his actual damages, if any. The
company recovers actual damages, in addition to the
penalty, only under special circumstances. No complaint
is now made that this is a denial of equal protection, and
we lay no stress upon it. But the statute clearly recognizes
that either party may be obliged to sue the other in order
to recover the penalty,, or damages, or both. No reason is
suggested, and none occurs to us, why the railroad company, when plaintiff in such an action, will not require the
services of an attorney as well as the shipper when he is
plaintiff. There is nothing in the nature of the cause of
action that renders the burden of preparation more onerous, as a rule, to the shipper when he is plaintiff than to
the company when it is plaintiff. There is nothing discernible, therefore, in the'purposes of the legislation-which
are: to require the prompt furnishing of- cars for use, and.
the prompt use of cars when furnished, and to redress a
disregard of either of these requirements by suit when
necessary-to give ground for a distinction granting at-

ATCHISON & SANTA FS RY. v. VOSBURG.
238 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

torney's fees to the shipper when he sues, and denying
attorney's fees to the company when it sues. In short,
it is erroneous to test the classification by its supposed
relation to the object of securing adequate car service,
because it really relates rather to the object of secnuing
adequate prosecution in court of actions respecting car
service.
In Missouri, Kansas & Texa. Ry. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642,
650, we had under consideration a Texas statute respecting
claims of certain classes against persons or corporations
doing business in the State, which provided that if any
such claim were not paid within a limited time after presentation, suit might be instituted thereon, and if plaintiff
obtained judgment fo the full amount of the claim as
presented he should recover the amount claimed and
costs, and in addition a reasonable amount as attorney's
fees. In sustaining the act we said (p. 650): "if the classification is otherwise reasonable, the mere fact that attorney's fees are allowed to successful plaintiffs only, and
not to successful defendants, does not render the statute
repugnant to the 'equal protection' clause. This is not
a discrimination between different citizens or classes of
citizens, since members of aiy and every class may either
sue or be sued. Actor and reus differ in their respective
attitudes towards a litigation; the former has the burden
of seeking the proper jurisdiction and bringing the proper
parties before it, as well as the burden of proof upon the
main issues; and these differences may be made the basis
of distinctive treatment respecting the allowance of an
attorney's fee as a part of the costs." (Citing Atchison,
Topeka &c. Railroad v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; and
Farmers' &c. Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301.)
The present case is essentially different, for in the Kansas statute the distinction is not rested upon the fact that
the plaintiff, whether shipper or company, has a special
burden in the litigation that may reasonably be compen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

sated by -allowance of attorney's fees; on the cqntrar, the
Act, while recognizing the existence of such burdeh, alows
compensation for it in favor of one class of litigants, but
does not allow like compensation to the other class when
subjected to the like burden. This, in our opinion, is a
denial of the equal protection of the lawA guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ROSSI v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT. OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 193. Argued March 11, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
A State may not punish one who sells and delivers liquor in original
packages within the State pursuant to orders solicited within the
State but delivered from without the State, under the circumstances
of this case which arose prior to the Webb-Kenyon Law.
The transportation of intoxicating liquor, as of other merchandise, from
State to State is interstate commerce and cannot be interfered with
by the States except as permitted by Congress.
The Wilson Act of 1890, while placing liquor on arrival at destination
under the law of the State, does not subject liquor transported in
interstate commerce to state regulation until after arrival at destination and delivery to the consignee or purchaser.
Under the Wilson Act the power of the State does not extend to a shipment of liquor prior to delivery to the purchaser because it was
transmitted in pursuance of an order previously obtained within the
State, where, as in Pennsylvania, there is no statute prohibiting
the solicitation and taking of such orders for liquor without a license.
Dekamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93, distinguished.
53 Pa. Sup. Ct. 210, reversed.

