NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

in reference thereto or to test the right of the Railroad
Company to purchase coal for sale.
The decree is reversed with directions to enter a decree
enjoining the Railroad from further transporting coal
sold under the provisions of the contract of August 2,
1909, referred to in the Petition.
Rieversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision of this case.

NEWMAN v. UNITED STATES EX REL. FRIZZELL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 813.

Argued April 13, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

In quo warranto proceedings brought in the name of the United States
on the relation of a citizen and taxpayer of the District of Columbia
for the purpose of ousting from the office of Civil Commissioner of
the District one appointed by the President and confirmed by the
Senate on the ground that he was not, as required by the Act of
June 11, 1878, c. 180, § 1, 20 Stat. 103, an actual resident of the
District of Columbia for three years next preceding his appointment, held that:
In early days usurpation of office was treated as a crime, and
could be prosecuted only as such and by duly authorized prosecuting officer and a private citizen could not prosecute such a
proceeding.
Subsequently after modification of the criminal features, the
writ of quo warranto came to be used as a means of determining
which of two claimants was entitled to an office.
Under the District Code of 1902 quo warranto is not limited to
proceedings against municipal officers, but extends to all persons
in the District exercising any office, civil or military; these provisions never having been judicially interpreted heretofore, this

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

case must be determined according to the special language of that
Code in the light of general principles applicable to quo warranto.
Owing to the many reasons of public policy against permitting
a public officer to be harassed with litigation over his right to hold
office, Congress has not authorized, but has placed obstacles in the
way of, a private citizen on his own motion to attack an incumbent's title to office.
Under the District of Columbia Code a third person may not
institute quo warranto proceedings without the consent of the law
officers of the Government and also of the Supreme Court of the
District.
The District Code makes a distinction between a "third person" and an "interested person" in maintaining quo warranto proceedings.
While every citizen and every taxpayer is interested in the
enforcement of law and in having only qualified officers execute
the law, such general interest is not a private but a public interest,
which is not sufficient to authorize the institution of quo warranto
proceedings.
The mere fact that one is a citizen and taxpayer of the District
of Columbia does not make him an interested party who may maintain quo warranto proceedings against the incumbent of an office
on the consent of the court, although the law officers of the
Government refuse such consent.
An interested person within the meaning of the provisions of the
District Code in regard to quo warrantoproceedings is one who has
an interest in the-office itself peculiar to himself whether the office
be elective or appointive.
Unless the right to maintain quo warranto proceedings under
the District Code were limited to persons actually and personally
interested, every officer attached to the Government at Washington would be subject to attack by persons having no claim in the
office or interest therein different from that of every other citizen
and taxpayer of the United States.
As §§ 1538-1540, Code District of Columbia, apply to actions
in quo warranto instituted by authorized parties against National
officers of the United States, they are general laws of the United
States and not merely local laws of the District of Columbia, and
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District construing
those sections is reviewable by.this court under § 250, Judicial
Code.
43 App. D. C. 53, reversed.

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THE President, on June 23, 1913, nominated Oliver P.
Newman as Civil Commissioner of the District of Columbia. The nomination was referred to a standing committee of the Senate. Certain, persons filed objections
to the confirmation on the ground that 'Newman had
not been an actual resident of the District for three years
immediately prior to his nomination' and, therefore, was
not qualified to hold the office under the provision of
the act of June 11, 1878 1 (20 Stat. 103, § 1).
At the hearing before the Committee there was testimony that Newman, who was a newspaper correspondent,
came to Washington in March, 1910, with the intention
of becoming a resident of the District. He rented an
apartment in which he resided until the opening of the
Presidential Campaign, in the summer of 1912. He was
then assigned to newspaper work which took him out
of the city. He accepted the employment upon the understanding that it was a temporary arrangement and that
he was to return to Washington as soon as the campaign
was over. In the discharge of his duties as correspondent
he was absent in Chicago and other places until the inauguration. He then returned to Washington and was
there living when on June 23, 1913, he was appointed
one of the Civil Commissioners of the District. The
Committee made a favorable report and he was then
confirmed by the Senate.
Thereafter William J. Frizzell called the attention of
the Attorney General and the District Attorney to facts
which, he insisted, 'proved that Newman had not been
an actual resident of the District for three years next
preceding his nomination.' On the basis of such facts
1 "The two persons appointed from civil life shall, at the time of
their appointment, be citizens of the United States, and shall have
been actual residents of the District of Columbia for three years next
before their appointment, and have, during that period, claimed residence nowhere else,

.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

he requested those officers to institute quo warranto proceedings for the purpose of ousting Newman from the
office. Both officers declined the request and thereupon
Frizzell, alleging himself to be a citizen and a taxpayer
of the District, applied to the Supreme Court of the
District for permission to use the name of the Government
in quo warranto proceedings. The court granted the
request and thereupon this case of the "United States
on the relation of William J. Frizzell v. Oliver P. Newman," was instituted.
The Respondent demurred on many grounds, among
others, that Frizzell was not an interested person and
that the court could not go behind the finding of the
President and of the Senate that Newman was qualified.
The demurrer was overruled and the case submitted to
the jury to decide the question of fact as to Newman's
residence. Testimony was taken explanatory of his absence from Washington on newspaper work. The court,
among other things, charged the jury that there was a
difference between "legal residence" and "actual residence." Under the charge, the jury found against Newman. The judgment ousting him from the office was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District-one
judge dissenting.
The case is here on a writ of error which raises several
important questions which, however, cannot be decided
if, under the laws of the District of Columbia, Frizzell,
as a private citizen was not authorized to institute this
proceeding to test the title to a public office to which he
himself made no claim.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston and Mr. John W. Davis, with
whom Mr. Wm. E. Richardson, Mr. George W. Hott and
Mr. Conrad H. Syme were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The relator was not an interested party within the
meaning and intent of the statute.

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

A mere taxpayer is not an interested person, the contest being as to a public office.
It was not the intention of Congress that appointees to
office, exercising their functions in the District of Columbia, should be subject to quo warranto at the suit of
a district citizen or taxpayer.
The courts have no right to review presidential and
senatorial determination of the qualifications of an officeholder.
The courts below disregarded presidential and senatorial action as without even evidential value in the quo
warranto proceeding.
Newman possessed the statutory qualifications of a
Commissioner of the District of Columbia.
See extracts from chapter 51, D. C. Code, on quo warranto and the statute relating to the same and also statutes
of various States prohibiting quo warranto by private individuals and numerous authorities of this and other courts
supporting these contentions.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. Arthur A. Birney
and Mr. William J. Neale were on the brief, for defendant
inerror:
This court has no jurisdiction -as there was not drawn
in question the construction of a law of the United States;
or the validity of any authority exercised under the United
States; or the existence or scope of any power or duty of
an officer of the United States; or the jurisdiction of the
trial court.
The right to institute quo warranto proceedings against
a municipal officer whose qualifications are defined by
positive law, is not confined to the Attorney General and
District Attorney, but may be allowed by a judge of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on the application of an interested person after refusal of the law
officers to take action. Torbert v. Bennett, 24 Wash. Law

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

Rep. 149, 156; Code, §§ 1538-1544; Union Pac. R. R. v.
Hall, 91 U. S. 343, decided 1875; Downing v. Ross, 1 App.
D. C. 251, 253; High on Ex. Rem., App. A.
A citizen taxpayer has such interest in the office of
Commissioner of the District of. Columbia that he must
be regarded as a person interested and entitled to apply
for a quo warranto in respect to that office. Mitchell v.
Tolan, 4 Vroom, 195, 199; Richards v. Hammer, 42 N. J.
L. 435; Hann v. Bedell, 67 N. J. L. 148; Waterbury v.
Martin,46 Connecticut, 479; State &c. v. Vail, 53 Missouri,
97, 110; Davis v. Dawson, 90 Georgia, 817; Covatt v. Mason,
101 Georgia, 246; State v. Kohnke, 109 Louisiana, 838;
overr'g 23 La. Ann. 25; White v. Barker, 116 Iowa, 96;
Foard v. Hall, 111 N. Car. 369; Pike County v. Metz, 11
Illinois, 202; Keliher v. Fordyce, 115 Wisconsin, 608; William v. Samuelson, 131 Wisconsin, 499; Barton v. Londoner,
13 Colorado, 303, 314; Commonwealth v. Meeser, 44 Pa.
St. 341. See also English decisions in harmony herewith.
King v. White, 5 Ad. & E. 613; King v. Parry, 6 Ad. & E.
810; Queen v. Quayle, 11 Ad. & E. 508.
But every citizen of a town has an interest in its municipal offices which will support a quo warranto to test
the right of an incumbent thereto. 7 Lawson's Rights,
Rem. & Proc., §4012. See also High on Ex. Rem., §§ 701,
702; Paine on Elections, § 873; Throop on Pub. Officers,
§ 781; State v. Dahl, 69 Minnesota, 108; Davis v. City
Council, 90 Georgia, 821.
Confirmation by the Senate of an appointment by the
President does not bar judicial inquiry into eligibility of
the appointee under the act of Congress which created
the office. Fox v. McDonald, 21 L. R. A. 529, 535, 536.
The right of choice was confined to a class, and persons
not within that class were and are disqualified from holding the office and discharging the.functions of Civil Commissioner. The writ here is not directed against the
Executive, but seeks to oust the respondent as one dis-

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

qualified by law to receive the executive appointment,
Congress has declared that the alien or the non-resident
may not exercise the functions of that particular office.
The appointment and confirmation do not establish
qualifications which did not exist and render the appointee
capable to receive appointment whom the statute disqualifies from receiving it. The Floyd Acceptances, 7
Wall. 666, 676; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
The eligibility of one to hold the governorship of a
State to which he had been elected was inquired into by
quo warranto by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. Atty.
Gen. v. Barstow, 4 Wisconsin, 567; High on Ex. Rem.,
§ 634; Atly. Gen. v. Vail, 53 Missouri, 97, 108.
The cause was properly submitted to the jury. An instructed verdict for respondent was impossible under the
evidence.
The issue of actual residence for three years was submitted to the jury under instructions which embodied all
the principles contended for by appellant in his prayers
directed to that subject, and were more favorable than
he was entitled to have them. He did not except to the
charge as given.
In the light of the verdict we hesitate to discuss the
distinctions between "residence," actual residence and
"domicile," for Mr. Newman's actual absence was conceded, and his claim of intention to return, as a substitute
for presence in the District was negatived by the verdict.
MR. JusTIcE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Usurpation of a public office, from an early day was
treated as a crime and, like all other crimes, could be
prosecuted only in the name of the King by his duly authorized law officers. When a judgment was obtained
against the intruder he was not only ousted from his office

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion Of the Court.

238 U. S.

but fined for his criminal usurpation. A private citizen
could no more prosecute such a proceeding in his own name
than he could in his own name prosecute for the crime of
murder-even though the victim was his near kinsman.
2. But in time the criminal features were modified and
it was recognized that there might be many cases whichthough justifying quo warranto proceedings-were not of
such general importance as to require the Attorney General to take charge of the litigation. This was especially
true in reference to the usurpation of certain municipal
offices named in 9th Anne, ch. 20. By that act, passed
in 1710, it was therefore provided that it should be lawful
"for the proper officer by leave of the court to exhibit an
information in the nature of a quo warranto at the relation
of any person desiring to prosecute the same" against the
designated municipal officers. The writ thus came to be
used as a means of determining which of two claimants
was entitled to an office, but continued to be so far treated
as a criminal proceeding as to warrant not only a judgment
of ouster, but a fine against the respondent if he was found
to have been guilty of usurpation. Standard Oil Co. v.
Missouri, 224 U. S. 282. This quasi-criminal act was
adopted in some of the American States and formed the
basis of statutes in others. It does not seem ever to have
been of force in any form in the District of Columbia.
Torbert v. Bennett, 24 Wash. Law Rep. 156.
In 1902 Congress'adopted a District Code, containing
a Chapter on quo warranto which though modeled after
the English statute differed therefrom in several material
particulars. The writ was treated as a civil remedy; it
was not limited to proceedings against municipal officers,
but to all persons who in the District exercised any office,
civil or military. It was made available to test the right
to exercise-a public franchise, or to hold an office in a
private corporation. Instead of providing that "any
person desiring to prosecute" might do so with the consent

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the court, certain restrictions were imposed and one
enlargement of the right was made. These provisions 1
have never received judicial interpretation. This case
must, therefore, be determined according to the special
language of that Code, in the light of general principles
applicable to quo warranto-theprerogative writ by which
1SEC. 1538. Against Whom Issued.-A quo warranto may be issued
from the Supreme Court of the District in the name of the United
StatesFirst. Against a person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully
holds or exercises within the District a franchise or public office, civil
or military, or an office in any domestic corporation.
Second. Against any one or more persons who act as a corporation
within the District without being duly authorized, or exercise within
the District any corporate rights, privileges, or franchises not granted
them by the laws in force in said District.
And said proceedings shall be deemed a civil action.
SEC. 1539. Who may institute.-The Attorney General or the District Attorney may institute such proceedings on his own motion, or
on the relation of a third person. But such writs shall not be issued
on the relation of a third person, except by leave of the court, to be
applied for by the relator, by a petition duly verified, .,tting forth
the grounds of the application, or until the relator shall file a bond with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the Clerk of the court, in such
penalty as the court may prescribe, conditioned for the payment by
him of all costs incurred in the prosecution of the writ in case the same
shall not be recovered from and paid by the defendant.
SEC. 1540. If Attorney General and District Attorney Refuse.-If the
Attorney General and the District Attorney shall refuse to institute
such proceedings on the request of a person interested, sdch person
may apply to the court by verified petition for leave to have said writ
issued; and if in the opinion of the court the reasons set forth in said
petition are sufficient in law, the said writ shall be allowed to be issued
by any attorney, in the name of the United States, on the relation of
said interested person, on his compliance with the condition prescribed
in the last section as to security for costs.
SEC. 1541. Relator Claiming Office.-When such proceeding is against
a person for usurping an office, on the relation of a person claiming the
same office, the relator shall set forth in his petition the facts upon
which he claims to be entitled to the office.

VOL. CCXXXVIIi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the Government can call upon any person to show by what
warrant he holds a public office or exercises a public
franchise.
3. The District Code still treats usurpation of office as a
public wrong which can be corrected only by proceeding in
the name of the Government itself. It permits those proceedings to be instituted by the Attorney General of the
United States and by the Attorney for the District of
Columbia. By xirtue of their position, they at their discretion, and acting under the sense of official responsibility,
can institute such proceedings in any case they deem

proper. But, there are so many reasons of public policy
against permitting a public officer to be harassed with
litigation over his right to hold office, that the Code, not
only does not authorize a private citizen, on his own mo*tion, to attack the incumbent's title, but it throws obstacles
in the way of all such private attacks. It recognizes,
however, that there might be instances in which it would
be proper to allow such proceedings to be instituted by a
third person-but, it provides that such "third person"
must not only secure the consent of the law officers of the
Government but the consent of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia before he can use the name of the
Government in quo warranto proceedings.
4. The Code--making a distinction between a "third
person" and an ."interested person "-recognizes also,
that there might be instances in which a person might have
such an interest in the matter as to entitle him to a hearing-even where he had failed to secure the consent of the
Attorney General or District Attorney to use the name of
the United States. Section 1540 deals with that case and
provides that where these law officers have refused the request of a "person interested" "he may apply to the
court Jy a verified petition for leave to have said writ
issue." If, in the opinion of the court, his reasons are
sufficient in law the said writ shall be allowed to be

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

issued

Opinion of the Court.

in the name of the United States on the

relation of said interested person on his giving security for
costs.
If the question of Frizzell's "interest" here had depended upon a matter about which the evidence was in
conflict, the finding of the Supreme Court might not be
subject to review. But if the established facts show that,
as a matter of law he was not an "interested person" the
court had no authority to grant him permission to use the
name of the Government and the case must be dismissed.
So that the fundamental question is whether the law of
force in the District permitted him, as a private citizen
without the consent of the law officers, to test Newman's
title to the public office of Civil Commissioner.
Frizzell does not allege. that he had been an incumbent of that office and had been unlawfully ousted before
his term expired. He does not set up any claim to the
office. And, of course, if he, as a citizen and a taxpayer,
has the right to institute these proceedings, any other
citizen and taxpayer has a similar right to institute proceedings against Newman and all others who "exercise
within the District . . . a public office, civil or military." District Code, 1538 (1). Such result would defeat the whole policy of the law which still regards usurpation as a public wrong to be dealt with primarily by the
public prosecutors.
5. In a sense--in a very important sense--every citizen
and every taxpayer is interested in the enforcement of
law, in the administration of law, and in having only
qualified officers execute the law. But that general interest
is not a private but a public interest. Being such, it is to
be represented by the Attorney General or the District
Attorney who are expected by themselves or those they
authorize to institute quo warranto proceedings against
usurpers in the same way that they are expected to institute proceedings against any other violator of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

That general public interest is not sufficient to authorize
a private citizen to institute such proceedings; for if it
was, then every citizen and every taxpayer would have
the same interest and the same right to institute such
proceedings and a public officer might, from the beginning
to the end of his term, be harassed with proceedings to
try his title.
6. As pointed out in the carefully prepared opinion of
the majority of the Court of Appeals of the District,
there is much conflict as to the meaning of the phrase
"interested person" in this class of cases. At first reading
the conflict seems irreconcilable. But upon examination
it will appear that the difference is often due to a difference
in the public policy and statutes of the respective States.
In some the writ issues only at the request of the Government's law officers; in others at the instance of a person
claiming the office; in others at the request of a person
claiming the office or interested therein; in others at the
instance of a person interested; in others at the request of
any person who can secure the consent of the court; and
in five or six others the legislature has thrown open the
door and permitted any person who desires to do so to use
the writ. This is true of the Acts underlying some of the
decisions relied on by the Relator, Frizzell.
For example, the English cases are based on the statute
of 9th Anne, ch. 20, which, in terms, related to suits
against those "who unlawfully exercise an office within
cities, towns and boroughs." It expressly authorized
the courts to permit informations in the nature of quo
warranto "at the relation of any person . . . desiring
to sue or prosecute the same." Some of the other decisions
cited are from States where the statute provides that the
proceedings might be instituted at the relation of "any
person desiring to present the same"; "upon the complaint of any private party"; "upon the relation of any
person desiring to sue or prosecute the same." But there

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

549

Opinion of the Court.

are so many and such weighty reasons against permitting
private persons to raise questions as to the incumbent's
title to a public office that, even in those States which
permit "any person" to institute quo warranto, the courts
have always required the relator to show that he was a
citizen and taxpayer.
The act of Congress of force in the District instead of
being limited to municipal officers applies to any office
"civil or military" and differs from those in any of these
States. It specially differs from those which treat the
writ as being available to any person. The Code provides
that a "third person "-the equivalent of "any person "may institute the proceedings only after he has secured
the consent of the law officers and the court. It makes a
distinction between a "third person" and an "interested
person" and provides that if the Attorney General refuses
to give his consent to the latter such "interested person"
may secure the right to use the name of the Government
by satisfying the Supreme Court of the District that his
reasons for applying therefor are sufficient in law.
Frizzell applied to the Attorney General for permission
to institute the proceedings. Failing to secure that consent, he then applied to the Supreme Court claiming that
the fact that he was a citizen and a taxpayer made him an
"interested person" entitled to the use of the writ. But
such a construction would practically nullify the requirement to obtain the consent of the Attorney General and
the District Attorney. For if being a citizen and a taxpayer was sufficient to warrant the court in giving the
consent, it was useless to require an application to be first
made to the Attorney General because practically every
litigant would have the qualification of citizenship and
many would have that of being a property owner.
7. Considering the ancient policy of the law and the
restrictions imposed by the language of the Code, it is
evident that in passing this statute Congress used the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

words "third person" in the sense of "any person" and
the phrase "person interested" in the sense in which it so
often occurs in the law-prohibiting a judge from presiding in a case in which he is interested; preventing a
juror from sitting in a case in which he is interested; and
permitting interested persons to institute quo warranto
proceedings. In the illustrations suggested, the interest
which a judge had as a member of the public would not
disqualify him from sitting in a case of great public importance and in which the community at large was concerned. The interest which disqualifies a juror from serving, as well as the interest which would authorize this
plaintiff to sue, must be some personal and direct interest
in the subject of the litigation. The same definition has
often been given in quo warrantocases. The interest which
will justify such a proceeding by a private individual must
be more than that of another taxpayer. It must be "an
interest in the office itself and must be peculiar to the
applicant." Demarest v. Wickham, 63 N. Y. 320; Commonwealth v. Cluley, 56 Pa. St. 270; State v. Taylor, 208
Missouri, 442; Robinson v. Jones, 14 Florida, 256; In re
Stein, 39 Nebraska, 539; State ex rel. Depue v. Matthews,
44 W. Va. 372, 384; Com. ex rel. Butterfield v. McCarter,98
Pa. St. 607; State v. Boal, 46 Missouri, 528; Brown v.
Alderman, 82 Vermont, 529; Mills v. Smith, 2 Washington, 572; Antrim v. Reardan, 161 Indiana, 250; Harrison
v. Greaves, 59 Mississippi, 455; Andrews v. State, 69
Mississippi, 740 (3), 746; Toncray v. Budge, 14 Idaho,
639; Hudson v. Conklin, 73 Kansas, 764; Vrooman v.
Michie, 69 Michigan, 47; Dakota v. Hauxhurst, 3 Dakota,
205.
The language of the Code, supported by the history and
policy of the law, sustains the proposition that one who
has no interest except that which is common to every
other member of the public is not entitled to use the
name of the Government in quo warranto proceedings.

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

For if the allegations in such a suit by a private citizen
set out any cause of action at all, it shows on its face that
it was a cause of action belonging to the whole body of the
public and which, therefore, should be prosecuted by the
public representative.
The rule is the same regardless whether the office is
elective or appointive. For in neither case is there any
intent to permit the public office to be the subject-matter
of private litigation at the instance of one who has no
interest therein which differs from that of every other
member of the public. The claim that this construction
makes the statute nugatory cannot be sustained, for
the statute, as already pointed out, gives a person who
has been unlawfully ousted before his term expired, a
right, on proof of interest, to the issuance of the writ
and there might be cases under the civil service law in
which the relator would have an interest and therefore a
right to be heard.
8. The conclusion, that the Relator must have a personal interest in the office before he can sue in the name
of the United States, is strengthened by the fact that
the courts of the District not only have jurisdiction to
issue quo warranto against officers of the District, but
against all those, attached to the seat of government,
who hold a statutory office. For, if a private citizen and
taxpayer could institute quo warranto proceedings to
test the title to the office of Civil Commissioner of the
District, he could, under the same claim of right, institute like proceedings against any of those statutory
officers of the United States who, in the District exercise many important functions which affect persons and
things throughout the entire country.
The President has the power of removal and there
have been few, if any, cases brought to test the title of
Federal offices. But such cases might arise as to statutory officers attached to the seat of government and if

OCTOBER TERM; 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

they did, the Supreme Court of the District could exercise quo warranto jurisdiction, as it now does in cases of
mandimus and injunction against appointed Federal
officers who perform duties in Washington. This appears
from comparing the provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 1795 and
1796 with § 1538 (1) of the District Code. The Revised
Statutes declare that the District of Coiumbia shall be the
seat of government, and "all offices attached to the seat
of government shall be exercised in the District of Colum-.
bia." The Code, [§ 1538 (1)] provides that the Supreme
Court. shall have jurisdiction to grant quo warranto
"against a person who unlawfully holds or exercises
within the District a . . . public office, civil or military." It was probably because of this fact, that National
officers might be involved, that the Attorney-General
of the United States was given power to institute such
proceedings-instead of leaving that power to the District Attorney alone as would probably have been the
case if only District officers were referred to in the
Code.
Manifestly, Congress did not intend that all these
officers, attached to the Executive branch of the Government at Washington, should be subject to attacks by
persons who had no claim on the office, no right in the
office, and no interest which was different from that of
every other citizen and taxpayer of the United States.
9. This fact also shows that §§ 1538-1540 of the District Code, in proper cases, instituted by proper officers
or persons, may be enforceable against National officers
of the United States. The sections are therefore to be
treated as general laws of the United States,-not as
mere local laws of the District. Being a law of general
operation it can be reviewed on writ of error from this
court. American Co. v. Commissioners of the District,
224 U. S. 491; McGowan v. Parish,228 U. S. 317.
It follows that the motion to dismiss is denied; the

UNITED STATES v. HIAWASSEE LUMBER CO.
238 U. S.

553

Statement of the Case.

application for a writ of certiorari is refused; the judgment is reversed, and the case remanded with instructions
to dismiss the quo warrantoproceedings.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents upon the ground

that, the sections of the District Code being local laws,
the case cannot be reviewed here on writ of error.

UNITED STATES v. HIAWASSEE LUMBER
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 133.

Argued March 2, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

In an action of ejectment brought by the United States to recover a
tract of land in North Carolina, the result depended upon the validity of the probate and registration of the deeds under which the
Government claimed title, and after reviewing and construing the
various statutes of the State regulating such probate and registration,
held (a) that the deed to the grantor of the United States, made in
1868, was validated as to probate and registration by an act of
January 27, 1870; and (b) that the deed from this grantor to the
United States, made in 1869, was admitted to registration, without
limitation as to time, by force of the Connor Act of 1885 of North
Carolina, and when so registered was made valid to pass title by
the terms of the same act.
202 Fed. Rep. 35, reversed.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by the United
States against the Hiawassee Lumber Company in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of North Car6lina to recover a tract of land situate
in Clay County, in that District and State, described as

