UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tion of the statute upon which the suits were based to
the acts in question. But we think in view of the nature
and character of the acts, of the self-operative force of the
Fifteenth Amendient and of the legislation of Congress
on the subject that there is no ground for such contention.

Affimed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of these cases.

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 180. Submitted October 17, 1913.-Dqcided June 21, 1915.
Section 19 of the Criminal Code, § 5508 Rev. Stat., punishing conspiracy to injure, oppress or intimidate any citizen in the full exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States is constitutional and constitutionally extends protection to the right to vote for members of
Congress and to have the vote when cast counted.
While § 19 of the Criminal Code when originally enacted was § 6 of
the Enforcement Act and Congress then had in mind the doings of
the Ku Klux and the like against negroes, the statute-dealt at the
time with all Federal rights of all citizens and protected them all,
and still continues so to do.
Section 19, Criminal Code, applies to the acts of two or more election
officers who conspire to injure and oppress qualified voters of the
district in the exercise of their right to vote for member of Congress
by omitting the votes cast from the count and the return to the
state election board.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 5508, Rev. Stat., and § 19 of the Penal Code,
are stated in the opinion.

384.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United State.

238 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Davis for the United States:
Congress may, by appropriate legislation, protect any
right or privilege arising from, created or secured by,
or dependent upon, the Constitution of the United States.
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 345; Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651, 663; Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S. 1,
24; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 293; Strauder v.
West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 310; United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214, 217.
The right of suffrage in the election of members of
Congress is such a right. Ex parte Yarbrough, supra;
Felix v. United States, 186 Fed. Rep. 685, 688; Swafford v.
Templeton, 185 U. S. 487; Wiley v.-Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58.
This right, together with others thus created or secured, is protected by § 19, Crim. Code. Cases supra..
Consequently, § 19, both generally and in its application to the elective franchise, is constitutional. Motes v.
United States, 178 U. S. 458; United States v. Waddell,
112 U. S. 76.
The right of suffrage seeured by the Constitution consists not merely of the right to cast a ballot but likewise
of the right to have that ballot counted.
The right in question arises equally from the second
and fourth sections of Article I of the Constitution. Ex
parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 660-664.
Upon whichever section it depends, it must include
the right to have the vote counted. Ex parte Clark,
100 U. S. 399; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; In re Coy,
127 U. S. 731; United States v. Gale, 109 U. S. 65.
Any conspiracy to interfere with or prevent the free
exercise or enjoyment of the constitutional right of suffrage is in violation of § 19, Crim. Code.
When applied to the elective franchise, the inference
is that the statute was designed to prevent any act whereby
the complete exercise of that privilege might be prevented
or impeded, and not merely attacks or threats directed

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against the voter's person. See United States v. Morris,
125 Fed. Rep. 322; United States v. Stone, 188 Fed. Rep.
836, 840; United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 80.
No brief or appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE. HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment under § 19 of the Criminal Code,
Act of March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1092. It was
demurred to and the demurrer was sustained by the
District Court on the ground that the section did not
apply to the acts alleged. As the judgment on the face
of it turned upon the constraction of the statute the
United States brought the case to this court.
The indictment contains four counts. The first charges
a conspiracy of the two defendants, who were officers
and a majority of the county election board of Blaine
County, Oklahoma, to injure and oppress certain legally
qualified electors, citizens of the United States, being
all the voters of eleven precincts in the county, in the
free exercise and enjoyment of their right and privilege,
under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
of voting for a Member of Congress for their district.
To that end, it is alleged, the defendants agreed that
irrespective of the precinct returns being lawful and regu-lar they would omit them from their count and from their
returns to the state election board. The second count
.charges the same conspiracy, a secret meeting of the defendants without the knowledge of the third member of
their board for the purpose of carrying it out, and the
overt act of making a false return, as agreed, omitting
the returns from the named precincts although regular
and entitled to be counted. The third count is like the
first with the addition of some details of the plan, intended to deceive the third member of their board. The
VOL. ccxxxviii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

fourth charges the same conspiracy, but states the object
as being to injure and oppress the same citizens for and
on account of their having exercised the right described.
The section is as follows: "If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen
in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his-having so exercised the same, or
if two or more persons go in disguise on the highway, or
on the premises of another, with intent to prevent or
hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than five
thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years,
and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office,
or place of honor, profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United States." It is not open to
question that this statute is constitutional, and constitutionally extends some protection at least to the right
to vote for Members of Congress. Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 293.
We regard it as equally unquestionable that the right to
have one's vote counted is as open to protection by Congress as the right to put a ballot in a box.
The only matter that needs argument is that upon which
the District Court expressed its view-whether properly
construed the statute purports to deal with such conduct
as that of the defendants, assuming that there is no lack
of power if such be its intent. Manifestly the words are
broad enough to cover the case, but the argument that
they have a different scope is drawn from the fact that
originally this section was part of the Enforcement Act
of May 31, 1870, c. 114, § 6, 16 Stat. 140, 141 (later,
Rev. Stat., § 5508), and that by an earlier section of the
same statute, § 4 (later, Rev. Stat., § 5506), every person
who by any unlawful means hindered or combined with
others to hinder any citizen -from voting at any election

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in any State, &c., was subjected to a much milder penalty than that under § 6. It may be thought that the
Act of 1870 cannot have meant to deal a second time and
in a much severer way in § 6 with what it had-disposed
of a few sentences before. The other sections have been
repealed, but § 19, it may be said, must mean what it
meant in 1870 when the Enforcement Act was passed,
and what it did mean will be seen more clearly from its
original words.
In its original form the section began "If two or more
persons shall band or conspire together, or go in disguise
upon the public highway, or upon the premises of another,
with intent to violate any provisions of this Act, or to
injure, oppress," &c. The source of this section in the
doings of the Ku Klux and the like is obvious and acts of
violence obviously were in the mind of Congress. Naturally Congress put forth all its powers. But this section
dealt with Federal rights and with all Federal rights, and
protected them in the lump, whereas § 4, Rev. Stat.,
§ 5506, dealt only with elections, and although it dealt
with them generally and might be held to cover elections
of Federal officers, it extended to all elections. It referred
to conspiracies only as incident to its main purpose of
punishing any obstruction to voting at any election in
any State. The power was doubtful and soon was held
to have been exceeded, United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.
214. See Logan v. United States, 141 U. S.263. The subject was not one that called for the most striking exercise
of such power as might exist. Any overlapping that there
may have been well might have escaped attention, or if
noticed have been approved, when we consider what must
have been the respective emphasis in the mind of Congress
when the two sections were passed.
But § 6 being devoted, as we have said, to the protection of all Federal rights from conspiracies against them,
naturally did not confine itself to conspiracies contem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR, J., dissenting.

238 U. S.

plating violence, although under the influence of the conditions then existing it put that class in the front. Just
as the Fourteenth Amendment, to use the happy analogy
suggested by the Solicitor General, was adopted with a
view to the protection of the colored race but has been
found to be equally important in its application to the
rights of all, § 6 had a general scope and used general
words that have become the most important now that the
Ku Klux have passed away. The change of emphasis is
shown by the wording already transposed in Rev. Stat.,
§ 5508, and now in § 19. The clause as to going in disguise upon the highway has dropped into a subordinate
place, and even there has a somewhat anomalous sound.
The section now begins with sweeping general words.
Those words always were in the act, and the present form
gives them a congressional interpretation. Even if that
interpretation would not havb been held correct in an indictment under § 6, which we are far from intimating, and
if we cannot interpret the past by the present, we cannot
allow the past so far to affect the present as to deprive
citizens of the United States of the general protection
which on its face § 19 most reasonably affords.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTICE MCREYNOLDS did not sit in this case.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment that state election officers
axe subject to indictment in Federal courts for wrongfully
refusing to receive and count election returns.
In this case the indictment charges a violation of Rev.
Stat., § 5508 (Penal Code, § 19) which makes it an offense
to 'conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any
citizen in the free exercise and enjoyment of any right or
privilege secured to him by the laws and Constitution of

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

the United States.' And the indictment charges that
these two defendants, 'being then and there members of
the County Election Board of Blaine County, Oklahoma,'
did conspire to deprive certain unnamed voters of such
right and in pursuance of that conspiracy threw out the
returns, from several election precincts.
The section under -which the indictment is brought was
originally a part of the Act of 1870, appearing as § 5508 1
in Chapter 7 of the Revised Statutes, headed "CRIMES
AGAINST THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE AND CIVIL RIGHTS OF

CITIZENS." The Act and the Chapter contained many
sections-ten of them (§§ 5506, 5511, 5512, 5513, 5514,
5515, 5520, 5521, 5522, 5.523) related'to offenses by persons
or officers against the elective franchise,-to crimes by
the voter and against the voter, and specifically to offenses
by Registrars, Deputy Marshals, Supervisors, and "every
officer of an election." Taken together it is perfectly evident that in them Congress intended to legislate comprehensively and exhaustively on the subject of 'crimes
against the franchise.' Under one or the other of them,
these defendants would have been subject to indictment,
but for the fact that all of those 10 sections were explicitly
and expressly repealed by the Act of February 8, 1894
(28 Stat. 36).
Those ten election sections having been repealed, it is
now sought to indiot these officers under § 5508, which
"SEC. 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress,
threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of
any right or privilege secured to him by the.Constitution or laws of the
United States, or because of his having so exercised the same; or if two
or more persons go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of
another, with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment
of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than
five thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years; and
shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place of honor,
profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United
States." 16 Stat. 141, § 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

238 U. S.

was not repealed. This is said to be justified on the
ground that, in the original act, there was such an overlapping and doubling of offenses that even when those
relating to election officers were repealed, a right to
prosecute them for conspiracy was retained in § 5508.
But this assumes that there was an overlapping when, in
fact, the subject of "crimes against the elective franchise"
and "crimes against civil rights" were treated as separate
and distinct. The chapter heading (Rev. Stat., §§ 55065523) indicates the difference; and though the two subjects were dealt with in the same Act, they were nevertheless treated as distinct. The sections of the original act
ran parallel to each other but were separated from each
other; and when all those dealing with offenses by election
officers were repealed the legislative content of those
sections was not poured into § 5508.
The Act of 1870 imposing punishment upon election
officers who were agents of the State, was passed in pursuance of the provisions of the Amendment which related
to state action, and thus authorized Congress to provide
for the punishment of state officers by Federal courts
which, prior to that time, could not have been done. The
Congressional will on that subject was fully and completely expressed in those parts of the statute which were
afterwards repealed. Congress, having dealt so explicitly
with offenses by state election officers in the ten repealed
sections cannot be supposed to have referred to them
indirectly in § 5508, which does not mention voters; or
elections; or election officers, but deals with the deprivation of civil rights of a different nature.
As will appear by the Report of the Committee (House
Report No. 18, 53rd Cong., 1st session) and debates in the
House and Senate during the discussion of the repealing
act of 1894, Congress took the view that as elections were
held under state laws, by state officers who were subject
to punishment by the State for a violation of the election

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

LAR, J.,

dissenting.

laws, they should not be subject to indictment in the
United States courts. The express and avowed intent was
to repeal all statutes which gave Federal courts jurisdiction over elections and over offenses committed by election
officers. And to hold that while a single election officer is
now immune from prosecution, two or more can be indicted under § 5508, gives an enlarged operation to the
theory that an act, not in itself criminal, may be punished if committed by more than one. Such construction
also injects §5508 into a field from which it was excluded
when passed in 1870 and into which it cannot now be
forced by implication. For under Penal Code (§.339),
§ 5508 means now exactly what it-did when it was originally enacted.
To reverse the judgment of the lower court quashing
this indictment means, in effect, that Congress failed in
its avowed purpose to repeal all statutes relating to crimes
against the franchise. To hold that by virtue of §5508 as
a conspiracy statute all of these repealed election offenses
are retained, when committed by two or more officers, will
also lead to the conclusion that in 1870 Congress in the
very same statute had included two sections both of which'
related to the same conspiracy and to the same overt act
but which might be punished differently. For, if the
District Attorney had indicted under § 5506 for "combining and confederating to prevent a qualified citizen from
voting," the two defendants might have been punished by
a fine of $500 and imprisonment for 12 months; while if
the indictment for the very same conduct had been based
on § 5508, for "conspiring to deprive the citizen of a right
under the United States law," the punishment might be a
fine of $5,000, imprisonment for 10 years and the loss of
the right to hold office under the laws of the United States.
Congress certainly never intended in the same breath to
make the same act punishable under two different sections
in different ways at the option of the prosecuting attorney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

238 U. S.

Similar anomalies could be pointed out if § 5508 is to be
construed as so all-embracing as to include acts bytwo
in violation of the 10 election sections which have been
repealed.
Rev. Stat., § 5508, is highly penal and is to be strictly
construed. And that ordinary rule is especially applicable
when a statute is sought to be enforced against election
officers. For the relation between the States and the
Federal Government is such that the power of the United
States courts to punish state officers for wrongs committed by them as officers, should be clearly and expressly
defined by Congress and not left to implication-especially
so when Congress has given such an explicit expression of
its intent that election officers should not be punished in
the Federal courts.
The Fifteenth Amendment is self-executing in striking
the word "white"

from all laws granting the right of

suffrage. It was not so far self-executing as to define
crimes against the franchise or to impose punishments for
wrongs against a voter. The amendment provided that
Congress should have power to enforce its provisions by
appropriate legislation. Congress did so legislate in 1870.
In 1894 it expressly repealed the legislation relating to
elections. Since that time no subsequent Congress has
restored that legislation or anything like it to the statute
books. If this be a hiatus in the law (James v. Bowman,
190 U. S. 127, 139) it cannot be supplied through the
operation of a conspiracy statute (§5508) which did not
contemplate furtive and fraudulent conduct, or a wrong
to the public, or to the voters of an entire precinct, or to
wrongs like those here charged. It related to conspiracies
to injuzre,oppress,threaten, intimidate-toviolence, oppression, injury, intimidation; to force on the premises, force
on the highway. The nearest approach to a prosecution
for an election offense under §5508 is the Yarbrough Case,
110 U. S. 656. But he was not an election officer and

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

393

Syllabus.

"the beating and wounding" there charged took place
on the "highway" remote from the precinct. That form
of intimidation and violence was in express terms dealt
with in § 5508 and in none of the repealed sections.
Rev. Stat., § 5508, has been in force for 45 years. During
those 45 years no prosecution has ever been instituted
under it against a state election officer. That non-action
but confirms the correctness of the construction that it was
never intended to apply to offenses by state election
officers. On the general subject see James v. Bogwman, 190
U. S. 127; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 149; Hodges v. United
States, 203 U. S. 1; Green v. Mills, 69 Fed. Rep. 863;
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629; United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 558; Swafford v. Templeton, 185
U. S. 487; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731; Wiley v. Sinkler, 179
U. S. 58, 66, 67; Karem v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep.
250, 258 (2), 259; Seeley v. Knox, 2 Woods (C. C.), 368:
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Holt v. Indiana, 176
U. S. 68, 72, 73; Wadleigh v. New Hall, 136 Fed, Rep. 941;
Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 690; United States v. Waddell,
112 U. S. 76.

OREGON & CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 679. Argued April 23, 26, 27, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.
Where there are doubts whether a clause be a covenant or condition
courts will incline against the latter; and as a general principle a
court of equity is reluctant to lend its aid to enforce a forfeiture.
The provisos in the Land Grant Act of July 25, 1866, as amended
June 25, 1868, and April 10, 1869, and in the Act of May' 4, 1870,
to the effect that the lands granted must be sold by railroad corn-

