DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. v. YURKONIS.
238 U. S.

439

Syllabus.

and at the same time secure to the defendants all the value
the granting acts conferred upon the railroads.
If Congress does not make such provision the defendants
may apply to the District Court within a reasonable time,
not less than six months, from the entry of the decree
herein, for a modification of so much of the injunction
herein ordered as enjoins any disposition of the lands and
timber until Congress shall act, and the court in its discretion may modify the decree accordingly.
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration and decision of the case.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. YURKONIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 852.

Submitted May 3, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Plaintiff sued railroad company for personal injuries in the state court
and defendant removed the case to the Federal court on ground of
diverse citizenship; more than two years after the cause of action
arose plaintiff amended his complaint setting up that he was engaged
in mining coal to be sent out of the State and that he could recover
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act; on the trial defendant
moved to dismiss on the ground that under that act the two year
statute applied and plaintiff thereupon moved to amend by striking
out allegations as to interstate commerce which the court denied and
the case was submitted to the jury on the issues joined under the
common law and the state statute. There was a verdict for the

OCTO)BER TERM, 1914.
Argumlnt for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

plaintiff, and the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. On writ of error from this court to review the judgment
held that:
In order for this court to review the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, jurisdiction in the District Court must have
rested, not on diverse citizenship alone, but must also in part have
arisen because of averments in the .complaint showing a cause of
action under the Constitution or laws of the United States involving a substantial controversy.
In the absence of such averments in the complaint the judgment
o. the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
The fact that coal may be used in interstate commerce after
being, mined and transported does not make an injury sustained
by thd.miner an injury sustained while engaged in interstate commerce, or create a cause of action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.
Where this court cannot review the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Aplieals becaus9 the jurisdiction of the Federal court rests
on diverse citizenship alone, it cannot pass on other questions,
such as whether the plaintiff had not prior to commencement of the
action removed to, and become a citizen of, defendant's State.
Writ of error to review 220 Fed. Rep. 429, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review the judgments -of the state court under ยง 237,
Judicial Code, axe stated in the opinion.

Mr.-Gorge C. Holt, Mr. John Vernon Bouvier, Jr., and
Mr. Win. Montague Geer, Jr., fbir, defendant in error in
support of the .motion.
Mr. William S. Jenney, Mr.. &veretf Warren and Mr.
F. ,W. Thomson for plaintiff in erro iA opposition to the
motion:
The writ of error should not be dismissed.
The judgment below should not be affirmed on motion.
The writ of error was sued out in good faitA and the
grounds asserted in support of it are not frivolous. The
questions raised are serious, important and far-reaching.

DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. v. YURKONIS.
238 U. S.

441

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

They are worthy of the best efforts of counsel and the
closest consideration of the court.
While plaintiff in error desires a quick determination of
the questions raised by the assignment of errors, it protests earnestly against any action by way of the summary
docket and an immediate hearing.
Under'the limitations imposed by this court upon its
review of the record in relation to the questions of negligence and contributory negligence, it will be found that
the defendant in error failed to show that his injuries were
due to the negligence of his employer.
In support of these contentions see Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S. 405; Atch., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Robinson,
233 U. S. 173; Bankers Co. v. Minneapolis &c. R. R., 192
U. S. 371; Colorado &c. Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138;
Empire Mining Co. v. Hanley, 198 U. S. 292; Ex parte
Jones, 164 U. S. 691; Firth v. Firth, 50 N. J. Eq. 137;
Florida &c. R. R. v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Gibson v. Bruce,
108 U. S. 561; Henningsen v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 208 U. S.
404; Hislop v. Taffe, 141 App. Div. 40; Hoes v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R., 173 N. Y. 435; Howard v. United States,
184 U. S. 676; Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills,
184 U. S. 290; Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712; Mansfield,
C. & L. M. R. R. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379; Missouri, K. &
T. R. R. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570; Montana Mining Co. v.
St. Louis Mining Co., 204 U. S. 204; Nor. Pac. R. R. v.
Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S. 81;
Penfield v. C., 0. & S. R. R., 134 U. S. 351; Perez v.
Fernandez, 202 U. S. 80; Pope v. Louisville &c. Co., 173
U. S. 573; Press Publishing Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105;
Railroad Commission of Ohio v. Railroad Co., 225 U. S.
101; Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Spencer
v. Silk, 91 U. S. 526; Third Street Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S.
457; Thompson v. Cent. Ohio R. R., 6 Wall. 134; Warner
v. Searle Co., 191 U. S. 195; Weir v. Rountree, 216 U. S.
602; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R., 178 U. S. 239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsic

DAY

238 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was brought in the Supreme Court of New
York to recover damages for injuries sustained by the
plaintiff while in the employ of the defendant Railroad
Company. The complaint charged that the injuries were
received while the plaintiff was employed in the defendant's colliery in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania. As to the
manner of injury the complaint averred that while the
plaintiff was in the employ of the defendant in its colliery,
and was engaged in and about the performance of his
duties, preparing and setting off a charge of dynamite for
the purpose of blasting coal, the explosive gases which
accumulated at the place where plaintiff was working
suddenly ignited and exploded, causing a squib attached
to the charge of dynamite to catch fire and to be immediately consumed, so that the charge of dynamite was
exploded and discharged, and as a result thereof the plaintiff received great, severe and permanent injuries.
The complaint also charged the carelessness and negligence of the defendant in failing to provide and keep a
safe place for the plaintiff to work, and certain other acts
unnecessary to be repeated but alleged to be of a negligent
character. The complaint also charged a violation of the
law of the State of Pennsylvania, providing for the health
and safety of persons employed in or about the coal mines
of that State. Upon the petition of the Railroad Company
the case was removed to the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of New York, where trial
was had and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff.
The petition for removal alleged that the plaintiff, at
the beginning of the suit and since resided in Richmond
County, New York, and was at the time of the beginning
of the action and still was an alien and citizen of a foreign
country, and that the defendant Railroad Company was
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the

DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. v. YURKONIS.
238 U. S.

443

Opinion of the Court.

State of Pennsylvania. After the removal of the case to
the United States District Court, the defendant filed an
answer, taking issue upon the allegations of the complaint.
Five months after the removal, the plaintiff filed an
amended complaint, which contained the same allegations
as to the manner of the injury, and allegations as to the
common law and statutory liability of the defendant. The
amended complaint added certain allegations wherein it
was alleged that the defendant, for the purpose of its railroad, owned, managed and operated a certain mine or
colliery known as the "Pettibone" colliery in the State of
Pennsylvania, in which plaintiff was employed at the time
of the injury, and where at all of the times covered by the
complaint the defendant did and still does mine and prepare anthracite coal for use in its locomotives and engines
and other equipment used in its business as a common
carrier in interstate commerce. That at the time of receiving the injury plaintiff was employed by the defendant
at said mine or colliery in such interstate commerce. The
amended complaint did not change the allegations as to the
manner in which plaintiff received his injuries. The defendant took issue upon the amended complaint and the
case came on for trial. In the course of the trial, during
examination of a witness, while evidence was being offered
to show the disposition of the coal mined, counsel for
defendant stated that it used the coal mined in its locomotives in interstate commerce. He said that as a matter of
fact and as a matter of law coal which plaintiff mined was
used in that way, and that "we are engaged in interstate
commerce." At the close of the evidence the defendant
moved for the direction of a verdict upon the ground that
the evidence had established liability under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, and that as the amended complaint had been served more than two years after the injuries occurred, the action was barred by the statute of
limitations. Thereupon plaintiff's counsel moved to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

amend the amended complaint by striking out the allegations relating to interstate commerce. The court
denied this motion and submitted the case to the jury,
upon the issues joined under the common law and Pennsylvania statute. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that
the trial court should have granted this motion, but
that the case was devoid of any showing that the Federal Employers' Act applied under the circumstances,
and that, had it applied, it would have been the controlling
law of the case, and the court affirmed the judgment of
the District Court.
There is a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction of
this court to review the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals. It is well settled that in order to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction in
the District Court must not have rested upon diverse
citizenship alone, but that jurisdiction must in part at
least have arisen because of averments showing a cause
of action under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, and in order to come to this ,ourt by writ of error
to the Circuit Court of Appeals such allegations of Federal
right must be found in the complaint. McFadden v.
United States, 210 U. S. 436. The allegations in that respect must show as a basis of action a substantial controversy respecting the Constitution or laws of the United
States. Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 713. In the absence of
such allegations in the complaint the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is final. Roman Catholic Church
&c. v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 237 U. S. 575, and
Merriam v. Syndicate Publishing Company, 237 U. S. 619,
both decided June 1, 1915.
The averments of the complaint as to the manner of
the receiving of the injury by plaintiff showed conclusively
that it did not occur in interstate commerce. The mere
fact that the coal might be or was intended to be used in
the conduct of interstate commerce after the same was

DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. v. YURKONIS.
238 U. S.

445

Opinion of the Court.

mined and transported did not make the injury one received by the plaintiff while he was engaged in interstate
commerce. The injury happening when plaintiff was
preparing to mine the coal was not an injury happening
in interstate commerce, and the defendant was not then
carrying on interstate commerce, facts essential to recovery under the Employers' Liability Act.
It therefore follows that the jurisdiction of the Court
of Appeals in this case was final. The plaintiff in error insists that the Court of Appeals should have reversed the
case and remanded it to the District Court with instructions to remand the case to the state court for want of
jurisdiction in the Federal court, and this because in the
course of the testimony the plaintiff said that he had
been a citizen of the United States some years before the
action was begun, and the defendant alleges that the
record shows, notwithstanding the allegations in its petition for removal, that plaintiff did not remove to New
York from Pennsylvania' until after the suit was brought,
the result being that, if there was no foundation for the
suit under a Federal statute, the want of diverse citizenship ousted the jurisdiction of the District Court. Without expressing any opinion as to what the Circuit Court
of Appeals should have done, we are not concerned with
its action unless we have jurisdiction to review the judgment of that court, which we do not have for the reasons
already stated.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

