NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. v. FEREBEE.
238 U. S.

269

Syllabus.

might be instances in which such testimony of the juror
could not be excluded without "violating the plainest
principles of justice." This might occur in the gravest
and most important cases; and without attempting to define the exceptions, or to determine how far such evidence
might be received by the judge on his own motion, it is
safe to say that there is nothing in the nature of the present case warranting a departure from what is unquestionably the general rule, that the losing party cannot, in
order to secure a new trial, use the testimony of jurors to
impeach their verdict. The principle was recognized and
applied in Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, which,
notwithstanding an alleged difference in the facts, is applicable here.
The suggestion that, if this be the true rule, then jurors
could not be witnesses in criminal cases, or in contempt
proceedings brought to punish the wrongdoers is without
foundation. For the principle is limited to those instances
in which a private party seeks to use a juror as a witness
to impeach the verdict.
Judgment affirmed.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FEREBEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 779. Argued April 23, 1915. Decided June 14, 1915.
In the courts of North Carolina in an action under the Employers'
Liability Act, there was a trial in which under the state practice the
jury returned a special verdict finding that the Railroad Company
was negligent and that plaintiff was not guilty of contributory negligence. The appellate court on account of errors in the charge re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

lating exclusively to the subject of damages granted a partial new
trial limited to the amount of damages, and on which the court refused to admit evidence as to plaintiff's contributory negligence.
Held that:
A substantive right or defense under the Federal law cannot
be lessened or destroyed by a state rule of practice, and ordinarily
damages and contributory negligence are so blended that only in
rare instances can the question of amount of damages be submitted to the jury without also submitting the conduct of the
plaintiff.
In this case, however, as defendant had not asked for a modification of the special verdict or to introduce newly discovered evidence, nor offered any such evidence on the second trial, the question of damages could be considered without also considering that
of plaintiff's contributory negligence as that question had been
entirely eliminated from the case, and the defendant was not deprived of any Federal right.
The practice of granting a partial new trial in actions under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act is not to be commended.
167 N. Car. 290, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the
validity of a verdict and judgment in an action thereunder
against the carrier, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Murray 4 llen, with whom Mr. W. B. Rodman, Mr.
John H. Small and Mr. R. W. Sims were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
It was competent for defendant to show violation of
its rules by plaiitiff at the time of his injury.
The Supreme Court of North Carolina committed error
in confining the trial to the single issue of damages. American R. R. v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145; Grand Trunk Ry.

v. Lindsay, 230 U. S. 42; Gulf &c. Ry. v. McGinnis, 228
U. S. 173; Jarrettv. Trunk Co., 144 N. Car. 302; Kingston
v. Railroad Co., 112 Michigan, 6; Kennon v. Gilmer, 131
U. S. 22; McGovern v. P. & R. Co., 35 S. C. Rep. 127;

Michigan Cent. R. R. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; Nor.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. v. FEREBEE.
238 U. S.

271

Opinion of the Court.

Car. R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248; Nor. & West. R. R.
v. Ernest, 229 U. S. 114; Pierce v. Railroad Co., 173 U. S.
1; Pederson v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 229 U. S. 146;
St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. v. Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702; St. L.,
I. M. & S. Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265; St. L., S. F.
& T. Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Simmons v. Fish, 210 Massachusetts, 568; Sutherland on Damages (3d ed.), ยง 1248; The
Fri, 140 Fed. Rep. 123, 124; Vicksburg. &c. R. R. v.
Putnam, 118 U. S. 545; Watt v. Watt (1905), A. C. 115.
Mr. Clyde A. Douglass and Mr. William C. Douglass
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

Ferebee was employed by the Norfolk Southern Railroad Company as a trainhand on a passenger train running
from Raleigh, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. During the night, at some place on the journey the steps to
the platform of one of the cars-were torn away by coming

in contact with some unknown obstruction. The consequence was that when Ferebee attempted to alight at a
station, he stepped from the platform to the ground and
received personal injuries for which he brought suit in the
Superior Court of Wake County, North Carolina, under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act (35 Stat. 65). The
Company defended on the ground that the plaintiff had
been guilty of contributory negligence in attempting to
leave the car while it was in motion; in failing to hold on
to the handrail; in failing to use his lantern and in failing
to discover that the steps were missing. There was a
trial in which, under the North Carolina practice, the jury
returned a special verdict, finding, among other things
(1) that the Railroad Company was negligent, and (2) that
the plaintiff was not guilty of contributory negligence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

The case was then taken to the Supreme Court of the
State which, because of an error in the charge on the subject of damages, granted a partial new trial and remanded
the case for a hearing in which the only question to be
considered was the amount to be awarded the plaintiff.
163 Nor. Car. 351.
At the second trial the plaintiff, on cross-examination
testified that when he left the car for the purpose of assisting passengers, he had in his hand a railroad lantern and
by holding it beneath the platform and "making an examination like a car inspector" he could have seen that
the steps had been torn away. He testified that he made
no such examination and owing to the construction of the
lantern-throwing light from the side instead of from the
bottom-he did not see that they were missing. On motion of the plaintiff this evidence was excluded. Later
the objection was withdrawn and the testimony admitted.
On further cross-examination the plaintiff was asked if
the rules did not require him to make such examinations.
This evidence was excluded on the ground, among others,
as stated in the argument here, that the rules themselves
were the best evidence. The court refused to submit to
the jury the question as .to how much should be deducted
from the damages sustained because of the plaintiff's
contributory negligence, for the reason that the Supreme
Court of North Carolina had granted a new trial to assess
damages and had thereby excluded the issue of contributory negligence from the case.
The jury found for the plaintiff-the amount being
somewhat larger than that named in the first verdict.
The judgment thereon was affirmed. 167 Nor. Car. '290.
The Company then brought the case here by writ of error,
in which it contends that it was error for the Supreme
Court to grant a partial new trial in which the question
of damages only could be considered, inasmuch as the
Employers' Liability Act entitles the defendant in all cases

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. v. FEREBEE.
238 U. S.

273

Opinion of the Court.

to prove contributory negligence in mitigation of damages. On the other hand, the defendant in error contends
that the question as to whether there should have been
a partial new trial was a matter of procedure to be governed by the practice of the State of North Carolina.
But a substantive right or defense arising under the
Federal law cannot be lessened or destroyed by a rule of
practice. Damages and contributory negligence are so
blended and interwoven, and the conduct of the plaintiff
at the time of the accident is so important a matter in
the ass'-s&ment of damages, that the instances would be
rare in which it would be proper to submit to a jury the
question of damages without also permitting them to
consider the conduct of the plaintiff at the time of the
injury.
But this record, in connection with the special-finding
first verdict, shows that in this case the two matters were
in fact separable, so that the splitting up the issues and
granting a partial new trial did not in this particular instance operate to deprive the defendant of a Federal right.
For it appears that Ferebee had nothing to do with the loss
of the steps and was not guilty of contributory negligence
in failing to see that they were missing. His conduct at
the time of his fall could not, therefore, affect the amount
of the verdict so that it was possible, on the second trial,
to award damages without considering the conduct of the
plaintiff or retrying the question of contributory negligence.
The new trial was granted at the instance of the Railway Company. It did not ask the Supreme Court for a
rehearing, or for a modification of the mandate, or for
permission to introduce newly discovered evidence, nor
was there any offer of such newly discovered evidence on
the second trial. That offered and excluded was not in
the nature of newly discovered evidence and the ruling
of the trial court in reference" to such evidence was in
voL. ccxxxvii-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Court. The
other matters relied on here for a reversal involve no construction of the Federal Act and are not of a nature to
warrant this court in granting a new trial. Seaboard Air
Line v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 486.
Under the facts, therefore, it cannot be said that the
decision operated to deprive the Railway Company of a
Federal right. But we recognize that the practice is not
to be commended. Before granting partial new trials, in
any case'under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, it
should, as said by the Supreme Court of North Carolina,
"clearly appear that the matter involved is entirely distinct and separable from other matters involved in the
issue . . . and that no possible injustice can be done
to either party. In cases of this character we do not know
that the practice is generAlly to be commended." The
North Carolina court further said in that case:-"An examination of all the evidence relating, to the injury and
its cause and the conduct of the plaintiff, as well as of
defendant's agents, might show that it is so interwoven
with that relating to damage that to fairly ascertain what
is a just compensation the plaintiff should receive, if he is
entitled to recover at all, can best be determined by trying
the whole case before one judge and one jury instead of
'splitting it up' between different judges and different
juries." Jarret v. Trunk, 144 N. Car. 299, 302. See also
Simmons v. Fish, 210 Massachusetts, 568. Kennon V.
Gilmer, 131 U. S. 22, 28, deals with the Federal practice
in somewhat similar cases.
Judgment affirmed.

