WELLS FARGO & CO. v. FORD.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in- Error.

WELLS FARGO & COMPANY EXPRESS v. FORD.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MADISON COUNTY, STATE
OF TEXAS.
No. 259. Submitted May 5, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.
The carrier cannot be held responsible for goods taken from its custody
by valid legal process provided it gives the owner prompt notice
of the suit so that he may have an opportunity to protect his interest.
As the carrier is not bound to make any defense it is all the more bound
to give the consignor notice so that he may appear and make his
own defense.
Where the carrier gives notice of suit and the owner fails to appear or
fails in his defense, and the seizure and sale of the property under
judicial process amounts to vis major, the carrier cannot be held
responsible for yielding thereto.
Where, as in this case, the carrier failed to give reasonable notice to
the owner, it cannot plead the judgment obtained against it taking
the owner's goods; and in such a case, if the judgmr.ent was rendered
in another State, the refusal of the court to admit it on the commonlaw ground that notice was not given to the owner does not amount
to a denial of full faith and credit under the Federal Constitution.

THE facts, which involve the liability of carriers for
goods taken from them by legal process and also the construction and application of the full faith and credit clause
of the Federal Constitution, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. M. Garwood and Mr. C. W. Stockton for plaintiff
inerror:
The defense in the court below was good.
Full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings of
the court of the State of Illinois was denied. See Moore
on Carriers (2d ed.), 327-331; Carpenter v. Strange, 141
U. S.87; Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230; Green v. Van
Buskirk, 7 Wall. 139; Harrisv. Balk, 198 U. S. 215; Insur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

ance Co. v. Harris, 97 U. S. 331; M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13
Pet. 312; Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
D. W. Ford was a traveling salesman who was much of
the time on the road, but considered Madisonville, Texas,
as his home. On September 16, 1912, he shipped from
that place to the Walker-Edmond Company, at Chicago,
a package containing a ring with "C. 0. D. charges thereon
amounting to $35." When the package arrived in Chicago,
it was tendered to the consignee who refused to receive
it or to pay the $35. The Walker-Edmond Company, in
order to obtain possession of the ring, forthwith brought
an action in replevin against Ford and the Express Company in the Municipal Court of Chicago. The writ, returnable October 4, was only served on the Express Company-the officer making return that Ford was not to be
found. The Chicago agent of the Express Company on
September 21 wrot the agent at Madisonville to notify
Ford of the pendency of the suit to be tried on October 4.
There is a claim that the agent at once wrote the Chicago
office that Ford did not desire to employ counsel and
would hold the Company responsible under its C. 0. D.
contract. The record shows that the local agent, on
October 2, mailed a letter to Ford at Madisonville containing a notice that judgment would go by default unless
Ford defended by October 4.
Ford claimed that he was absent from Madisonville during the months of September and October and received no
notice of the pendency of the suit until after his return in
November-and after the Municipal Court'of Chicago had
entered a default judgment, finding that Walker-Edmond
Company was entitled to the possession of the ring.
Subsequently Ford demanded that the Express Coin-

WELLS FARGO & CO. v. FORD.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

p&ny should return him the property or else pay him $35,
which it had been instructed to "Collect on Delivery."
On its failure to comply Ford brought suit in a Texas court
against the Express Company which defended on the
ground that it was not liable because the package had
been taken from it by judicial process. In support of
that defense it offered a copy of the Illinois record in the
case of Walker-Edmond Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co. Express
and D. W. Ford. The judge of the County Court found
that Ford had not been served in any way provided by
law and "on account of the Express Company's negligence
in failing to give the plaintiff legal notice of the pendency
of the suit in Chicago it is liable on account of its negligence." Judgment was thereupon entered for Ford by
the County Court of Madison County, Texas,--the highest court of that State having jurisdiction of the caseand the Express Company brought the case here by writ
of error in which it complains of the failure of the Texas
court to give full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings of the Municipal Court exercising jurisdiction under
the laws of the State of Illinois.
In the brief it is said that, while the case. is for a small
sum, the writ of error is prosecuted to test the constantly
recurring and, to it, important question as to whether the
Express Company can be held liable to consignors who
sue in one State to recover property which has been taken
from the carrier by the judicial processes of another State.
But the law is well settled. The carrier cannot be held
for goods taken from its custody by valid legal process,
provided it gives the owner prompt notice of the suit so
that he may have an opportunity to protect his interest.
For, as the land carrier is not bound (The M. M. Chase,
37 Fed. Rep. 708) to make a defense, it is all the more
bound to give the consignor notice of the suit so that he
may appear and make his own defense. Ohio & M. R. R.
v. Yohe, 51 Indiana, 181; Merz v. Chicago &c. Ry., 86

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S. -

Minnesota, 35; Bliven v. Hudson &c. R. R. Co., 36 N. Y.
403, 407. If the carrier gives such notice and the consignor
fails to appear, or fails in his defense, and the property is
seized, held, or sold under judicial process, the carrier
cannot thereafter be held responsible for yielding to what
must then be treated as vis major.
In the present case the carrier, in recognition of its
duty to give notice, instructed the agent at Madisonville
to notify Ford of the pendency of the suit. The local
agent, without making inquiries to learn whether Ford
was in town or absent, in the course of his business as a
traveling salesman, contented himself with mailing a letter directed to Ford at Madisonville. This letter was
posted only two days before the trial in Chicago and was
not received by Ford until after his return to Madisonville, and after the judgment in the replevin Suit had
been entered against the Express Company. The Texas
court held that the carrier was liable for the value of the
consigned goods because it had been guilty of negligence
in failing to give Ford legal notice.
That judgment, based on that common-law ground, did
not deny full faith and credit to the Illinois judgment
which was treated as valid between Walker-Edmond Co.
and the Express Company. It, however, was not available to the Express Company because it established only
one of the two elements which the carrier had to prove
in order to make out its defense when sued by Ford for
the property. For the carrier not only had to show that
the package had been taken from it by a valid judicial
process, but it also had to show that Ford had been given
prompt notice of the pendency of the suit in which that
process issued. The decision against the Express Company was based on its failure to prove that it gave the
notice which was the condition precedent of its right to
use the valid Illinois judgment.
Affirmed.

