OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

PRICE v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COU.RT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 274. Argued May 12, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.
This court accepts the decision of the highest court of the State as to
the construction of a pure food statute and whether specified articles
are included within the prohibitions thereof, and then determines
whether, as so construed, the statute is valid under the Federal
Constitution.
The police power of the State extends to imposing restrictions having
reasonable relation to preserving the health of its people.
The nature and extent of such restrictions are matters for legislative
judgment in defining the policy of the State, and are within the power
of the State unless palpably unreasonable and arbitrary.
A prohibition against the sale of food preservatives containing boric
acid is not so unreasonable and arbitrary a to amount to deprivation
of property without due process of law.
It is not enough to condemn a police statute as unconstitutional under
the due process clause that the innocuousness of the prohibited
article be debatable; for if debatable the legislature is entitled to its
own judgment.
In enacting a police statute the legislature is not limited to general
directions, but may prohibit the sale ol such specific articles as it
deems injurious.
The legislature may estimate degrees of evil and adjust its legislation according to the existing exigency; and, without offending the
equal protection provision of the Constitution, may prohibit the
sale of particular articles-such as food preservatives containing
boric acid-if it does not exceed bounds of reasonable classification.
This court will not assume that goods are shipped from State to State
in small retail packages, and where the character of the shipment is
not shown, such packages cannot be classed with the "original
packages" within the rule protecting such packages from subjection
to the police laws of the State.
In this case no question of the conflict of the state law with action by
Congress in regard to interstate shipment of food is involved.
The provisions of the Pure Food Law of Illinois of 1907 prohibiting
sale of food preservatives containing boric acid are not unconstitu-

PRICE v. ILLINOIS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tional under the due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, or as to the sales within that State of the articles
involved in this action in the packages in which they were sold, under
the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution.
257 Illinois, 587, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Pure Food Statute of
Illinois of 1907, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Trafford N. Jayne for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lester H. Strawn, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Illinois, with whom Mr. Patrick J. Lucey,
Attorney General of the State of Illinois, was on the'brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois, which affirmed a judgment of the
Municipal Court of Chicago, finding the plaintiff in error
guilty of a violation of the 'Pure Food" statute of thatState and imposing a fine. 257 Illinois, 587.
The violation consisted of a sale in Chicago of a preservative compound known as 'Mrs. Price's Canning
Compound' alleged to be intended as a 'preservative of
food' and to be 'unwholesome and injurious in that it
contained boric acid.'
The statute (Laws of Illinois, 1907, p. 543, §§ 8 and 22,.
Ch. 127b; Hurd's Rev. Statutes, 2209, 2213, 2218) provvides:
"§ 8. DEFINES ADULTERATION.]

That for the purpose

of this act an article shall be deemed to be adulterated: . . .
"In case of food: . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

"Fifth--If it contains any added poisonous or other
added deleterious ingredient which may render such article injurious to health: Provided, that when in the preparation of food products for shipment they are preserved
by an external application, applied in such a manner
that the preservative is necessarily removed mechanically,
or by maceration in water, or otherwise, and directions
for the removal of said preservatives shall be printed on
the covering of the package, the provisions of this act
shall be construed as applying only when such products
are, ready for consumption; and formaldehyde, hydrofluoric acid, boric acid, salicylic acid and all compounds
and derivatives thereof are hereby declared unwholesome
and injurious.
"§ 22. SALE OF PRESERVATIVES PROHIBITED.] No person, firm or corporation shall manufacture for sale, advertise, offer or expose for sale, or. sell, any mixture or
compound intended for use as a preservative or other
adulterant of milk, cream, butter or cheese, nor shall he
manufacture for sale, advertise, offer or expose for sale,
or sell any unwholesome or injurious preservative or any
mixture or compound thereof intended as a preservative
of any food: Provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to pure salt added to butter and cheese."
A trial by jury was waived. There was a stipulation
of fadts setting forth, in substance, that the defendant
had sold in Chicago two packages of the preservative in
question; that the compound contained 'boric acid'; that
the label on the packages bore the following statement:
"It is not claimed for thisCompound that it contains anything of food value, but it is an antiseptic preparation,
and among its many uses may be employed to prevent
canned fruits and vegetables from souring and spoiling";
that the preservative was not offered for sale or sold in
any food product, but only separately as a preservative;
and that the defendant was accorded a hearing before

PRICE v. ILLINOIS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the State Food Commission pursuant to the provisions
of the Food law.
There was also introduced in evidence on behalf of the
State an envelope, used for enclosing the compound, upon
which were statements as to its uses, prices, etc. It was
thus stated that the preservative could be used 'in canning
all kinds of fruit,' and was 'especially valuable for corn,
beans, peas,' etc. There was also the statement on the
envelope that the contents 'of this package' were sufficient for 'four quarts' and that the retail prices were from
ten cents for one 'package' to one dollar for fifteen 'packages.' That was the case for the State.
A motion to dismiss was denied. The plaintiff then
made an offer of proof, and thereupon it was stipulated
that a witness in court, if sworn, would testify that the
"Price Canning Compound is an article of commerce,
which has been sold under that distinct name for a period
of years, with the ingredients and in the proportions contained in the sample taken by the Food Department,
which is the subject of this suit; that it has acquired a wide
reputation over a large number of States in the Union as
a distinctive article, used for canning by the housewife";
that "it is not sold to manufacturers of food or canners of
food for sale"; and that "boric acid is a constituent part
of the compound and has been such during all the time
that the compound has been sold."
Objection tb evidence offered that "there is no added
ingredient of any kind whatever, whether it be injurious,
deleterious, or otherwise," was sustained as not being addressed to the charge made. The defendant (the plaintiff
in error) also offered to prove "that boric acid is not injurious to health or to the human system" and that the
"Price Canning Compound is not adulterated or mislabeled in any way." The offer was rejected, and the defendant excepted. In response to a further offer, it was
conceded that the witness, if placed upon thd stand, would
VOL. CcxxxvIII-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

testify that the compound "is an article of commerce,
sold in Illinois in the original package manufactured in
Minnesota."
Upon this state of the record, the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the statute was inapplicable, or, if
applicable, was repugnant to the constitution of the
State, and to the Commerce Clause and the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution, were overruled.
The Supreme Court of the State thus construed the
statute:
"We will first notice the objection of plaintiff in error
that section 8 deals only with foods; that the declaration
in that section that boric acid is injurious and unwholesome is limited to foods containing that substance as an
added ingredient, and has no application to a preservative
which is not, and does not purport to be a food.
"Both sections 8 and 22 are parts of one act, and the
act as a whole, should be so construed as to give effect to
its manifest purpose and intent. Its main purpose is to
protect health by preventing adulteration of food by any
unwholesome and injurious ingredient. Boric acid is
declared to be unwholesome and injurious, and the sale of
any food to which it is an added ingredient is prohibited.
It was well known to the legislature that ,various compounds are manufactured and sold for preserving foods of
different kinds. If such preservatives contain unwholesome and injurious ingredients, their use by the housewife, or any on else, in preserving fruits or food, would
be as injurious to the health as if they had been added
by a dealer or manufacturer to fruits or other foods before
placing them on the market. The object of the act is to
protect the public health by preventing dealers from selling food to which had been added, for the purpose of
preserving it, ingredients injurious to the health, or from
selling any compound as a preservative which contained
any such ingredients. The prohibition is not against the

PRICE v. ILLINOIS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sale of all preservatives, but is against only unwholesome
or injurious preservatives. . . . It is just as important to prohibit the sale to the housewife of a compound
containing boric acid, to be used by her to preserve fruits
and vegetables put up by her for family use, as it is to
prohibit the sale of fruits and vegetables after such an
ingredient has been added. We think the reasonable
construction of the act to be that the prohibition against
boric acid is not limited to foods to which it is an added
ingredient, but extends to compounds sold as a food
preservative which contain boric acid. The danger to
health is as great from one as the other, and the prohibition of both was necessary to effect the evident purpose of
the legislature." 257 Illinois, pp. 592, 593.
The plaintiff in error challenges the correctness of this
construction, but this question is simply one of'local law
with which we are not concerned. We accept the decision
of the Supreme Court of the State as to the meaning of the
statute, and, in the light of this construction, the validity
of the act under the Federal Constitution must be determined. Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.403,
414; W.W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S.452, 466;
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73;
Purity Extract Co. v. "Lynch,226 U. S.192, 198.
The first Federal question is presented by the contention
that the statute, as applied, effects a deprivation of property without due process of law and a denial of. the equal
protection of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The State has undoubted power to protect the health of
its people and to impose restrictions having reasonable
relation to that end. The nature and extent of restrictions
of this character are matters for the legislative judgment
in defining the policy of the State and the safeguards required. In the avowed exercise of this power, the legislature of Illinois has enacted a prohibition-as the statute is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

construed--against the sale of food preservatives containing boric acid. And unless this prohibition is palpably
unreasonable and arbitrary we are not at liberty to say
that it passes beyond the limits of the State's protective
authority. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 686;
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 91; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 395; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183
U. S. 238, 246; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11,
25; Silz v. Hesterberg,211 U. S. 31, 39; McLean v. Arkansas,
211 U. S. 539, 547; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 569; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,
supra; Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S. 331,
333. The contention of the plaintiff in error could be
granted only if it appeared that by a consensus of opinion
the preservative was unquestionably harmless with respect
to its contemplated uses, that is, that it indubitably must
be classed as a wholesome article of commerce so innocuous
in its designed use and so unrelated in any way to any
possible danger to the public health that the enactment
must be considered as a merely arbitrary interference with
the property and liberty of the citizen. It is plainly not
enough that the subject should be regarded as debatable.
If it be debatable, the legislature is entitled to its own
judgment, and that judgment is not to be superseded by
the verdict of a jury upon the issue which the legislature
has decided. It is not a case where the legislature has
confined its action to the prohibition of that which is
described in general terms as unwholesome or injurious,
leaving the issue to be determined in each case as it arises.
The legislature is not bound to content itself with general
directions when it considers that more detailed measures
are necessary to attain a legitimate object. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 288. Legislative
particularization in the exercise of protective power has
many familiar illustrations. The present case is one of
such particularization, where the statute-read as the

PRICE v. ILLINOIS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state court reads it-specially prohibits preservatives
containing boric acid. The legislature thus expressed its
judgment and it is sufficient to say, without passing upon
the opinions of others adduced in argument, that the action of the legislature cannot be considered to be arbitrary.
Its judgment appears to have sufficient support to be
taken out of that category. See Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45, 51; Circular No. 15 (June 23, 1904),
Bureau of Chemistry; Food Inspection Decision 76
(July 13, 1907); Bulletin (December 31, 1914), Bureau of
Chemistry;-U. S. Department of Agriculture.
It is further urged that the enactment, as construed,
contains an unconstitutional discrimination against the
plaintiff in error, but in this aspect, again, the question is
whether the classification made by the legislature can be
said to be without any reasonable basis. The legislature is
entitled.to estimate degrees of evil and to adjust its legislation according to the exigency found to exist. And, applying familiar principle, it cannot be said that the legislature
exceeded the bounds of reasonable discretion in classification when it enacted the prohibition in question relating
to foods and compounds sold as food preservatives. . Ozan
Lumber Co. v. Union County Bank, 207 U. S. 251, 256;
Heath & MilliganCo. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338, 354; Lindsley
v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78; Mutual
Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225, 235; Eberle v. Michigan,
232 U. S. 700,706; Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S.
224, 227; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 383, 384. We
find no ground for holding the statute to be repugnant to
-the Fourteenth Amendment.
The remaining contention is that the statute as applied
violates the Commerce Clause. Treating the article as
one on a footing with adulterated food, the power of the
State to prohibit sales within its borders is broadly asserted on its behalf. On the other hand, the plaintiff
in error insists that the compound is not an adulterated

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

food, and was not charged to be such, but was an article
of commerce manufactured in another State; and that
whatever may be the power of the State of Illinois over
manufacture and sale apart from interstate commerce,
the State could not prohibit its introduction and sale in
the course of interstate commerce. It is not necessary,
however, to deal with the question in the scope thus
suggested. The sole ground for invoking the Commerce
Clause in order to escape the restrictions of the state law
is sought to be found in the doctrine with respect to sales
in original packages. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 22, 23. The record, however, is wholly
insufficient to support the contention. The stipulation
of facts read in evidence by the State set forth that the
defendant had sold in Chicago 'two packages' of the
compound. The State then introduced in evidence an
'enveldpe used for enclosing the compound.' This, among
other things, bore a statement that the content of "this
package is sufficient for four quarts." And it set forth
prices as follows: "Retail Price. 1 Package 10c. 3
Packages 25c. 7 Packages 50c. 15 Packages $1.00."
The clear inference from this evidence was that the compound was offered for sale at retail in small packages
(in envelopes) suitable for the consumer. The defendant
made an offer of proof, and in lieu of the offered testimony
it was conceded that the witness, if sworn, would testify
that the compound mentioned in the statement of claim
"is an article of commerce sold in Illinois, in the original
package manufactured and made in Minnesota." As
to the nature of the package, nothing more was shown.
All that was admitted was entirely consistent with the
view that the original package referred to was simply
the small package in the envelope which the State had
described, and no error can be charged to the state court
in so regarding it. Nothing appeared as to the character

PRICE v. ILLINOIS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the shipment from Minnesota to Illinois, and it would
be wholly unjustifiable to assume that, in commercial
shipments into the State, the small package was segregat.ed or separately introduced. If these small packages
were associated in their shipment into the State, as they
naturally would be, and were subsequently sold separately
or in various lots, these separate packages although respectively in the original envelopes would not be classed
as 'original packages' within the rule invoked, so as to
escape the local law governing domestic transactions.
We have repeatedly so held, in cases not materially
different in this respect. Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S.
343; Cook v. Marshall. County, 196 U. S. 261; Purity
Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 199-201. The testimony offered by the plaintiff in error, and treated as
received, taken in connection with what had already
been proved as to the character of the packages put up
for retail sale, fell far short of the proof required to constitute a defence upon, the ground that the state law,
otherwise valid, was applied in contravention of the
Commerce Clause.
It should be added that no question is presented in
the present case as to the power of Congress to make
provision with respect to the immediate containers (as
well as the larger receptacle in which the latter are shipped)
of articles prepared in one State and transported to
another, so as suitably to enforce its regulations as to
interstate trade. McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S.
115, 135. It does not appear that. the state law as here
applied is in conflict with any Federal rule.
Judgment affirmed.

