GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

cluded use of this method to bring about lawful conditions
and therein, we think, was plainly arbitrary and unreason.
able. Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.
403, 417; Donovan v. Pennsylvania Company, 199 U. S.
279, 293; Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.
196, 206.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

GUINN AND BEAL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96. Argued October 17, 1913.-Decided June 21, 1915.

The so-called Grandfather Clause of the amendment to the constitution of Oklahoma of 1910 is void because it violates the Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The Grandfather Clause being unconstitutional and not being separable
from the remainder of the amendment td the constitution of Oklahoma of 1910, that amendment Em a whole is invalid.
The Fifteenth Amendment does not, in a general sense, take from the
States the power over suffrage possessed by the States from the beginning, but it does restrict the power of the United States or the
States to abridge or deny the right of a citizen of the United States
to vote on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude.
While the Fifteenth Amendment gives no right of suffrage, as its command is self-executing, rights of suffrage may be enjdyed by reason
of the striking out of discriminations against the exercise of the

right.
A provision in a state constitution recurring to conditions existing before the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment and the continuance
of which conditions that amendment prohibited, and making those

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

238 U. S.

conditions the test of the right to the suffrage is in conflict with,
and void under, the Fifteenth Amendment.
The establishment of a literacy test for exercising the suffrage is an
exercise by the State of a lawftil power vested in it not subject to
the supervision of the Federal courtg.
Whether a provision in asuffrage statute may be valid under the Federal Constitution, if it is so connected with other provisions that
are invalid, as to make the whole statute unconstitutional, is a question of state law, but in the absence of any decision by the stite
court, this court may, in a case coming from the Federal courts, determine it for itself.
The suffrage and literacy tests in the amendment of 1910 to the constitution of Oklahoma are so connected with each other that the
unconstitutionality of the former renders the whole amendment
invalid.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States of the suffrage amendment to the constitution of Oklahoma, known as the Grandfather Clause, and
the responsibility of election officers under § 5508, Rev.
Stat., and § 19 of the Penal Code for preventing people
from voting who have the right to vote, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. C. B. Stuart,
Mr. A. C. Cruce, Mr. W. A. Ledbetter, Mr. Norman Haskell and Mr. C. G. Hornor were on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error:
Determination of the constitutionality of the Grandfather Clause in the Oklahoma constitution, not being
necessary to a full solution of this case, this court will
not pass upon the constitutionality of such provision.
Atwater v. Hassett, 111 Pac. Rep. 802; Bishop on Stat.
Crime, §§ 805-806; Braxton County v. West Virginia,
208 U. S. 192; Burns v. State, 12 Wisconsin, 519; Devard v.
Hoffman, 18 Maryland, 479; Liverpool Co. v. Immigration Commissioners, 113 U. S. 39; Mo., Kans. & Tex.
Ry. v. Ferris, 179 U. S. 606; §§ 19, 20, Penal Code; §5508,

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Rev. Stats. (§ 19, Penal Code); Smith v. Indiana, 191 U.
S.139; Cruce v. Cease, 114 Pac. Rep. 251; New Orleans
Canal Co. v. Heard, 47 La. Ann. 1679.
As to the nature of suffrage, see Jameson on Const.
Conventions, § 336.
Suffrage in the States of the American Union is not
controlled or affected by the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. Blaine's Twenty
Years in Congress; Brannon's Fourteenth Amendment,
77; Coffleld v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371; Miller's Lectures
on Const., 661; Minor v. Happerselt, 21 Wall. 162;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Strauder v. West,
Virginia, 100 U. S.303; 1 Willoughby's Constitution, 534;
2 Id. 483; 5 Woodrow Wilson's Hist. Am. People.
The Grandfather Clause does not violate the Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Atwater v. Hasseti, 111 Pac. Rep. 802; Dred Scott Case,
19 How. 393; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 371; Fairbanks v. United States, 181 U. S. 286; Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 87; Mills v. Green, 67 Fed. Rep. 818; Mills v.
Green, 69 Fed. Rep. 852; Mitchell v. Lippencott, 2 Woods,
372; McClure v. Owen, 26 Iowa, 253; McCreary v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27; Pope v. Williams, 193 U. S. 621;
Southern R. R. v. Orton, 6 Sawyer, 32 Fed. Rep. 478;
State v. Grand Trunk R. R., 3 Fed. Rep. 889; Stimson's
Fed. & State Const. 224; United States v. Reece, 92 U. S.
214; United States v. Cruickshank, 92 U. S.542; United
States v. Anthony, 11 Blatchf. 205; United States v. Des
Moines, 142 U. S.545; Webster v. Cooper, 14 How. 488;
Williams v. Mississippi,170 U. S.214; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S.356.
Even though the exemption privilege provided in the
Grandfather Law may be invalid, yet, the body of the
law may be permitted to stand. Albany v. Stanley, 105
U. S.305; Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S.82; Little Rock &c.
Ry. v. Worthen, 120 U. S.97.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

238 U. S.

The exception does not deny or abridge the right to
vote on account of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude.
The purpose and motive which moved the legislature
to submit and the people to adopt the amendment are
not subject to judicial inquiry.
The exception which is challenged as vitiating the entire
amendment, even if open to judicial inquiry, is valid,
because it applies without distinction of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.
In support of these contentions, see Bailey v. Alabama,
219 U. S. 219; Cruce v. Cease, 28 Oklahoma, 271; Home
Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27; Ratcliffe v. Beal, 20 So. Rep. 865;
Smith v. Indiana, 191 U. S. 138; Soon Hing v. Crowley,
113 U. S. 703; United States v. Reese, 92 U., S. 214; Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213; .Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S.356.
Mr. Solicitor General Davis for the United States:
The questions propounded by the Circuit Court of
Appeals are raised by the facts as certified and are indispensable to a determination of the cause.
The answer to the second question propounded by the
court, is that the Grandfather Clause of the amendment
to the constitution of Oklahoma of the year 1910 is void
because it violates the Fifteenth Amendment.
The so-called Grandfather Clause incorporates by
reference the laws of those States which in terms excluded
negroes from the franchise on January 1, 1866, because
of race, color, or condition of servitude, and so itself
impliedly excludes them for the same reason.
The doctrine of incorporation by reference has been
frequently enunciated and applied. Bank for Savings v.
Collector, 3 Wall. 495; Donnelly v. United States, 228 U.
S. 243; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556; In re Heath,

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

1.44 U. S. 92; In re Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653; United States v.
Le Bris, 121 U. S. 278; Viterbo v. Friedlander,120 U. S.
707. See also: Endlich, Interp. Stats., § 492; Potter's
Dwarris, pp. 190-192, 218; Sutherland, Statutes, 2d ed.,

§405.
What is implied in a statute is as much a part of it
as what is expressed. Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175,
220; United &tates v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55, 61; Wilson
County v. Third Nat. Bank, 103 U. S. 770, 778.
Whether at a given time a man was entitled to vote
is a mixed question of law and fact, to be resolved only
by consulting the law fixing the qualifications for suffrage
and then the facts as to his possession of those qualifications.
While the Fifteenth Amendment did not confer the
right of suffrage upon anyone, it did confer upon citizens
of the United States from and after the date of its ratification the right not to be discriminated against in the
exercise of the elective franchise on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude. United States v.
Reese, 92 U. S. 214; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542.
In all cases where the former slave-holding States had
not removed from their constitutions the word "white"
as a qualification for voting, the Fifteenth Amendment
did in effect confer upon the negro the right to vote, because, being paramount to the state law, it annulled
the discriminating word "white" and thus left him in the
enjoyment of the same right as white persons. Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370.
If, therefore, the date fixed in the Grandfather Clause
had been the year 1871-after the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment-instead of the year 1866, the constitutions and laws to which it referred, and which were
by such reference made a part of it, would have been
already purged of the vice of racial discrimination, and

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

238 U. S.

the amendment itself would have been likewise free from
it. To reflect upon the change which would be wrought
in the meaning of this Grandfather Claus6 by fhe:substitution of the year 1871 for the year 1866 is to be confirmed in the conviction of its utter invalidity.
The necessary effect and operAtion of the Grandfather
Clause is to exclude practically all illiterate negroes and'
practically no illiterate white men, and from this its unconstitutional purpose may legitimately be iuferrech
The census statistics show thgt the proportion of negroes
qualified under the test imposed by the Grandfather
Clause is as inconsiderable as the proportion of Whites
thereby disqualified.
In practical operation the amendment inevitably
discriminates between the class of illiterate whites and
illiterate blacks as a class, to the overwhelming disadvantage of the latter.
The necessary effect and operation of a state statute
or constitutional amendment may be considered in determining its validity under the Federal Constitution.
Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; No Ah Kow v. Nunan,
5 Sawyer, 552; Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134
U. S. 594, 598; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. See
also: Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 82; Chy Lung v.
Freeman, 92 U. S. 275, 278; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195
U. S. 223,'240; Henderson v. Mayor of N. Y., 92 U. S. 259,
268; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 64; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 60. See also: Maxwell v.
Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313,
319; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 32; Quong Wing v.
Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 63. Distinguishing-Barbier v.
Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
703; and Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213.
The answer to the first question propounded by the court
is that the Grandfather Clause being in violation of the
Fifteenth Amendment and void, the amendment of 1910

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S. Argument for National Asso. for Adv. of Colored People.

to the constitution of Oklahoma as a whole is likewise invalid. The unconstitutional portion of the amendment
is not separable from the remainder. Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 564-565; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 395.
The first question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be answered in the negative; the second
question in the affirmative.
Mr. Moorfield Storey for the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People:
All discriminations respecting the right to vote on
account of color are unconstitutional.
Whether the Oklahoma amendment constitutes such
a discrimination is to be determined by its purpose ai_.
effect, and 'not by its phraseology alone.
The undoubted purpose and effect of the amendment
is to discriminate against colored voters. Anderson v.
Myers, 182 Fed. Rep. 223; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S.
219; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Collins v. New
Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 J. S.
275; Galveston &c. Ry. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Giles v.
Harris, 189 U. S. 475; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 146;
Graver v. Faurot, 162 U. S. 435; Hannibal & St. Jo. R. R.
v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Henderson v. Mayor of New York,
92 U. S. 259; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Maynard
v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.
313; Mobile v. Watson, 116'U. S. 289; New Hampshire v.
Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; People v. Albertson, 55 N. Y. 50;
People v. Compagnie Gn6rale, 107 U. S. 59; Postal Tel.Cable v. Taylor, 192 U. S. 64; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Smith v.
St. Louis & So. W. Ry., 181 U. S. 248; State v. Jones,
66 Ohio St. 453; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S.
303; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62; Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651.
VOL. ccxxxvii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Mr. J. H. Adriaans filed a brief as amicus curie.
Mr. John H. Burford and Mr. John Embry filed a brief
as amici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case is before us on a certificate drawn by the
court below as the basis of two questions which are submitted for our solution in order to enable the court corredtly to decide issues in a case which it has under consideration. Those issues arose from an indictment and
conviction of certain election officers of the State of
Oklahoma (the plaintiffs in error) of the crime of having
conspired unlawfully, wilfully and fraudulently to deprive
certain negro citizens, on account of their race and color,
of a right to vote at a general election held in that State
in 1910, they being entitled to vote under the state law
and which right was secured to them by the Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The prosecution was directly concerned with § 5508,
Rev. Stat., now § 19 of the Penal Code which is as follows:
"If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress,
threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or
enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of
his having so exercised the same, or if two or more persons
go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or
enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall
be fined not more than five thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall, moreover, be
thereafter ineligible to any office, or place of honor, profit,
or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United
States."

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We concentrate and state from the certificate only
matters which we deem essential to dispose of the questions asked.
Suffrage in Oklahoma was regulated by § 1, Article III of
the Constitution under which the State was admitted into
the Union. Shortly after the admission there was submitted an amendment to the Constitution making a
radical change in that article which was adopted prior
to November 8, 1910. At an election for members of
Congress which followed the adoption of this Amendment
certain election officers in enforcing its provisions refused
to allow certain negro citizens to vote who were clearly
entitled to vote under -the provision of the Constitution
under which the State was admitted, that is, before the
amendment, and who, it is equally clear, were not entitled
to vote under the provision of the suffrage amendment if
that amendment governed. The persons so excluded
based their claim of right to vote upon the original Constitution and upon the assertion that the suffrage amendment was void because in conflict with the prohibitions of
the Fifteenth Amendment and therefore afforded no basis
for denying them the right guaranteed and protected by
that Amendment. And upon the assumption that this
claim was justified and that the election officers had violated the Fifteenth Amendment in denying the right to
vote, this prosecution, as we have said, was commenced.
At the trial the court instructed that by the Fifteenth
Amendment the States were prohibited from discriminating as to suffrage because of race, cQlor, or previous condition of servitude and that Congress in pursuance of the
authority which was conferred upon it by the very terms
of the Amendment to enforce its provisions had enacted
the following (Rev. Stat., § 2004):
"All citizens of the United States who are otherwise
qualified by law to vote at any election by the people of any
State, Territory, district, . . . municipality, . . . or

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

other territorial subdivision, shall be entitled and allowed
to vote at all such elections, without distinction of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude; any constitution, law, custom, usage, or regulation of any State or
Territory, or by or under its authority, to the contrary
notwithstanding."
It then instructed as follows:
"The State amendment which imposes the test of reading and writing any section of the State constitution as a
condition to voting to persons not on or prior to January 1,
1866, entitled to vote under some form of government, or
then resident in some foreign nation, or a lineal descendant
of such person, is not valid, but you may consider it in so
far as it was in good faith relied and acted upon by the
defendants in ascertaining their intent and motive. If
you believe from the evidence that the defendants formed
a common design and co~perated in denying the colored
voters of Union Township precinct, or any of them, entitled to vote, the privilege of voting, but this was due to a
mistaken belief sincerely entertained by the defendants
as to the qualifications of the voters-that is, if the motive
actuating the defendants was honest, and they simply
erred in the conception of their duty-then the criminal
intent requisite to their guilt is wanting and they cannot be
convicted. On the other hand, if they knew or believed
these colored persons were entitled to vote, and their purpose was to unfairly and fraudulently deny the right of
suffrage to them, or any of them entitled thereto, on account of their race and color, then their purpose was a
corrupt one, and they cannot be shielded by their official
positions."
The questions which the court below asks are these:
"1. Was the amendment to the constitution of Oklahoma, heretofore set forth, valid?
"2. Was that amendment void in so fax as it attempted
to debar from the right or privilege of voting for a qualified

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

candidate for a Member of Congress in Oklahoma, unless
they were able to read and write any section of the constitution of Oklahoma, negro citizens of the United States
who were otherwise qualified to vote for a qualified candidate for a Member of Congress in that State, but who
were not, and none of whose lineal ancestors was, entitled
to vote under any form, of government on January 1,
1866, or at any time prior thereto, because they were then
slaves?"
As these questions obviously relate to the provisions
concerning suffrage in the original constitution and the
amendment to those provisions which forms the basis of
the controversy, we state the text of both. The original
clause so far as material was this:
"The qualified electors of the State shall be male citizens of the United States, male citizens .of the State, and
male.persons of Indian descent native of the United States,
who are over the age of twenty-one years, who have resided in the State one year, in the county six months, and
in the election precinct thirty days, next preceding the
election at which any such elector offers to vote."
And this is the amendment:
"No person shall be registered as an elector of this
State or be allowed to vote in any election herein, unless
he be able to read and write any section of the constitution of the State of Oklahoma; but no person who was, on
January 1, 1866, or at any time prior thereto, entitled to
vote under any form of government, or who at that time
resided in some foreign.nation, and no lineal descendant
of such person, shall be denied the right to register and
vote because of his inability to so read and write sections of
such constitution. Precinct election inspectors having in
charge the registtation of electors shall enforce the provisions of this section at the time of registration, provided
registration be required. Should registration be dispensed
with, the provisions of this section shall be enforced by the

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

precinct election officer when electors apply for ballots to
vote."
Considering the questions in the light of the text of the
suffrage amendment it is apparent that they are twofold
because of the twofold character of the provisions as to
suffrage which the amendment contains. The first question is concerned with that provision of the amendment
which fixes a standard by which the right to vote is given
upon conditions existing on January 1, 1866, and relieves
those coming within that standard from the standard
based on a literacy test which is established by the other
provision of the amendment. The second question asks as
to the validity of the literacy test and how far, if intrinsically valid, it would continue to exist and be operative
in the event the standard based upon January 1, 1866,
should be held to be illegal as violative of the Fifteenth
Amendment.
To avoid that which is unnecessary let us at once consider and sift the propositions of the United States on the
one hand and of the plaintiffs in error on the other, in
order to reach with precision the real and final question
to be considered. The United States insists that the
provision of the amendment which fixes a standard based
upon January 1, 1866, is repugnant to the prohibitions of
the Fifteenth Amendment because in substance and effect
that provision, if not an express, is certainly an open repudiation of the Fifteenth Amendment and hence the
provision in question was stricken with nullity in its
inception by the self-operative force of the Amendment,
and as the result of the same power was at all subsequent
times devoid of any vitality whatever.
For the plaintiffs in error on the other hand it is said the
States have the power to fix standards for suffrage and that
power was not taken away by the Fifteenth Amendment
but only limited to the extent of the prohibitions which
that Amendment established. This being true, as the

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

standard fixed does not in terms make any discrimination
on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, since all, whether negro or white, who come within
its requirements enjoy the privilege of voting, there is no
ground upon which to rest the contention that the provision violates the Fifteenth Amendment. This, it is insisted, must be the case unless it is intended to expressly
deny the State's right to provide a standard for suffrage,
or what is equivalent thereto, to assert: a, that the judgment of the State exercised in the exertion of that power
is subject to Federal judicial review or supervision, or b,
that it may be questioned and be brought within the
prohibitions of the Amendment by attributing to the legislative authority an occult motive to violate the Amendment or by assuming that an exercise of the otherwise
lawful power may be invalidated because of conclusions
concerning its operation in practical execution and resulting discrimination arising therefrom, albeit such discrimination was not expressed in the standard fixed or fairly
to be implied but simply arose from inequalities naturally
inhering in those who must come within the standard
in order to enjoy the right to vote.
On the other hand the United States denies the relevancy of these contentions. It says state power to provide
for suffrage is not disputed, although, of course, the authority of the Fifteenth Amendment and the limit on
that power which it imposes is insisted upon. Hence,
no assertion denying the right of a State to exert judgment and discretion in fixing the qualification of suffrage
is advanced and no right to question the motive of the
State in establishing a standard as to such subjects under
such circumstances or to review or supervise the same
is relied upon and no power to destroy an otherwise valid
exertion of authority upon the mere ultimate operation
of the power exercised is asserted. And applying these
principles to the very case in hand the argument of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Government in substance says: No question is raised by
the Government concerning the validity of the literacy
test provided for in the amendment under consideration
as an independent standard since the conclusion is plain
that that test rests on the exercise of state judgment and
therefore cannot be here assailed either by disregarding
the State's power to judge on the subject or by testing its
motive in enacting. the provision. The real question involved, so the argument of the Government insists, is the
repugnancy of the standard which the amendment makes,
based upon the conditions existing on January 1, 1866,
because on its face and inherently considering the substance of things, that standard is a mere denial of the
restrictions imposed by the prohibitions of the Fifteenth
Amendment and by necessary result re-creates and perpetuates the very conditions which the Amendment was
intended to destroy. From this it is urged that no legitimate discretion could have entered into the fixing of
such standard which involved only the determination to
directly set at naught or by indirection avoid the commands of the Amendment. And it is insisted that nothing
contrary to these propositions is involved in the contention of the Government that if the standard which the
suffrage amendment fixes based upon the conditions existing on January 1, 1866, be found to be void for the
reasons urged, the other and literacy test is also void,
since that contention rests, not upon any assertion on the
part of the Government of any abstract repugnancy of
the literacy test to the prohibitions of the Fifteenth
Amendment, but upon the relation between that test
and the other as formulated in the suffrage amendment
and the inevitable result which it is deemed must follow
from holding it to be void if the other is so declared
to be.
Looking comprehensively at these contentions of the
parties it plainly results that the conflict between them is

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

much narrower than it would seem to be because the
premise which the arguments of the plaintiffs in error
attribute to the propositions of the United States is by
it denied. On the very face of things it is clear that the
United States disclaims the gloss put upon its contentions
by limiting them to the propositions Which we have hitherto
pointed out, since it rests the contentions which it makes
as to the assailed provision of the suffrage amendment
solely upon the ground that it involves an unmistakable,
although it may be a somewhat disguised, refusal to give
effect to the prohibitions of the Fifteenth Amendment
by creating a standard which it is repeated but calls
to life the very conditions which that Amendment was
adopted to destroy and which it had destroyed.
The questions then are: (1) Giving to the propositions
of the Government the interpretation which the Government puts upon them and assuming that the suffrage
provision has the significance which the Government
assumes it to have, is that provision as a matter of law
repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment? which leads
us of course to consider the operation and effect of the
Fifteenth Amendment. (2) If yes, has the assailed
amendment in so far as it fixes a standard for voting as
of January 1, 1866, the meaning which the Government
attributes to it? which leads us to analyze and interpret
that provision of the amendment. (3) If the investigation as to the two prior subjects establishes that the
standard fixed as of January 1, 1866, is void, what if any
effect does that conclusion have upon the literacy standard
otherwise established by the amendment? which involves
determining whether that standard, if legal, may survive the recognition of the fact that the other or 1866
standard has not and never had any legal existence. Let
us consider these subjects under separate headings.
1. The operation and effect of the Fifteenth Amendment.
This is its text:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

"Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States
to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous
condition of servitude.
"Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce
this article by appropriate legislation."
(a) Beyond doubt the Amendment does not take away
from the state governments in a general sense the power
over suffrage which has belonged to those governments
from the beginning and without the possession of which
power the.whole fabric upon which the division of state
and national authority under the Constitution and the
organization of both governments rest would be without
support and both the authority of the nation and the
State would fall to the ground. In fact, the very command of the Amendment recognizes the possession of the
general power by the State, since the Amendment seeks
to regulate its exercise as to the particular subject with
which it deals.
(b) But it is equally beyond the possibility of question
that the Amendment in express terms restrict the power
of the United States or the States to abridge or deny the
right of a citizen of the United States to vote on account
of race, color or previous condition of servitude. The
restriction is coincident with the power and prevents its
exertion in disregard of the command of the Amendment.
But while this is true, it is true also that the.Amendment
does not change, modify or deprive the States of their full
power as to suffrage except of course as to the subject with
which the Amendment deals and to the extent that
obedience to its command is necessary. Thus the authority over suffrage which the States possess and the
limitation which the Amendment imposes are cbordinate
and one may not destroy the other without bringing about
the destruction of both.
(c) While in the true sense, therefore, the Amendment

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gives no right of suffrage, it was long ago recognized that
in operation its prohibition might measurably have that
effect; that is to say, that as the command of the Amendment was self-executing and reached without legislative
action the conditions of discrimination against which it
was aimed, the result might arise. that as a consequence of
the striking down of a discriminating clause a right of
suffrage .would be enjoyed by reason of the generic character of the provision which would remain after the discrimination was stricken out. Ex parte Yarbrough, 110
U. S. 651; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370. A familiar
illustration of this doctrine resulted from the effect of
the adoption of the Amendment on state constitutions in
which at the time of the adoption of the Amendment the
right of suffrage was conferred on all white male citizens,
since by the inherent power of the Amendment the word
white disappeared and therefore all male citizens without
discrimination on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude came under the generic grant of suffrage
made by the State.
With these principles before us how can there be room
for any serious dispute concerning the repugnancy of the
standard based upon January 1, 1866 (a date which preceded the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment), if the
suffrage provision fixing that standard is susceptible of the
significance which the Government attributes to it? Indeed, there seems -no escape from the conclusion that to
hold that there was even possibility for dispute on the
subject would be but to declare that the Fifteenth Amendment not only had not the self-executing power which it
has been recognized to have from the beginning, but that
its provisions were wholly inoperative because susceptible
of being rendered inapplicable by mere forms of expression
embodying no exercise of judgment and resting upon no
discernible reason other than the purpose to disregard the
prohibitions of the Amendment by creating a standard of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

voting which on its face was in substance but a revitalization of conditions which when they prevailed in the past
had been destroyed by the self-operative force of the
Amendment.
2. The standardof January 1, 1866, fixed in the suffrage
amendment and its significance.
The inquiry of course here is, Does the amendment as
to the particular standard which this heading embraces
involve the mere refusal to comply with the commands
of the Fifteenth Amendment as previously stated? This
leads us for the purpose of the analysis to recur to the
text of the suffrage amendment. Its opening sentence
fixes the literacy standard which is all-inclusive since it is
general in its expression and contains no word of discrimination on account of race or color or any other reason.
This however is immediately followed by the provisions
creating the standard based upon the condition existing
on January 1, 1866, and carving out those coming under
that standard from the inclusion in the literacy test which
would have controlled them but for the exclusion thus
expressly provided for. The provision is this:
"But no person who was, on January 1, 1866, or at any
time prior thereto, entitled to vote under any form of
government, or who at that time resided in some foreign
nation, and no lineal descendant of such person, shall be
denied the right to register and vote because of his inability
to so read and write sections of such constitution."
We have difficulty in finding words to more clearly
demonstrate the conviction we entertain that this standard has the characteristics which the Government attributes to it than does the mere statement of the text. It is
true it contains no express words of an exclusion from the
standard which it establishes of any person on account of
race, color, or previous condition of servitude prohibited
by the Fifteenth Amendment, but the standard itself
inherently brings that result into existence since it is based

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purely upon a period of time before the enactment of the
Fifteenth Amendment and makes that period the controlling and dominant test of the right of suffrage. In
other words, we seek in vain for any ground which would
sustain any other interpretation but that the provision,
recurring to the conditions existing before the Fifteenth
Amendment was adopted and the continuance of which
the Fifteenth Amendment prohibited, proposed by in substance and effect lifting those conditions over to a period
of time after the Amendment to make them the basis of
the right to suffrage conferred in direct and positive disregard of the Fifteenth Amendment- And the same result, we are of opinion, is demonstrated by considering
whether it is possible to discover any basis of reason for
the standard thus fixed other than the purpose above*
stated. We say this because we are unable to discover
how, unless the prohibitions of the Fifteenth Amendment
were considered, the slightest reason was afforded for
basing the classification upon a period of time prior to
the Fifteenth Amendment. Certainly it cannot be said
that there was any peculiar necromancy in the time named
which engendered attributes affecting the qualification to
vote which would not exist at another and different period
unless the Fifteenth Amendment was in view.
While these considerations establish that the standard
fixed on the basis of the 1866 test is void, they do not
enable us to reply even to the first question asked by the
court below, since to do so we must consider the literacy
standard established by the suffrage amendment and the
possibility of its surviving the determination of the fact
that the 1866 standard never took life since it was void
from the beginning because of the operation upon it of the
prohibitions of the Fifteenth Amendment. And this
brings us to the last heading:
3. The determinationof the validity of the literacy test and
the possibility of its surviving the disappearanceof the 1866

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

standardwith which it is associated in the suffrage amendment.
No time need be spent on the question of the validity
of the literacy test considered alone since as we have seen
its establishment was but the exercise by the State of a
lawful power vested in it not subject to our supervision,
and indeed, its validity is admitted. Whether this test
is so connected with the other one relating to the situation
on January 1, 1866, that the invalidity of the latter requires the rejection of the former is really a question of
state law, but in the absence of any decision on the subject by the Supreme Court of the State, we must determine it for ourselves. We are of opinion that neither forms
of classification nor methods of enumeration should be
made the basis of striking down a provision which was
independently legal and therefore was lawfully enacted
because" of the removal of an illegal provision with which
the legal provision or provisions may have been associated.
We state what we hold to be the rule thus strongly because
we are of opinion that on a subject like the one under
consideration involving the establishment of a right whose
exercise lies at the very basis of government a much more
exacting standard is required than would ordinarily'obtain
where the influence of the declared unconstitutionality of
one provision of a statute upon another and constitutional
provision is required to be fixed. Of course, rigorous as is
this rule and imperative as is the duty not to violate it,
it does not mean that it applies in a case where it expressly
appears that a contrary conclusion must be reached if
the plain letter and necessary intendment of the provision
under consideration so compels, or where such a result is
rendered necessary because to follow the contrary course
would give rise to such an extreme and anomalous situation as would cause it to be impossible to conclude that it
could have been upon any hypothesis whatever within
the mind of the law-making power.

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Does the general rule here govern or is the case controlled by one or the other of the exceptional conditions
which we have just stated, is then the remaining question
to be decided. Coming to solve it we are of opinion that
by a consideration of the text of the suffrage amendment
in so far as it deals with the literacy test and to the extent
that it creates the standard based upon conditions existing
on January 1, 1866, the case is taken out of the general rule
and brought under the first of the exceptions stated. We
say this because in our opinion the very language of the
suffrage amendment expresses, not by implication nor
by forms of classification nor by the order in which they
are made, but by direct and positive language the command that the persons embraced in the 1866 standard
should not be under any conditions subjected to the literacy test, a command which would be virtually set at
naught if on the obliteration of the one standard by the
force of the Fifteenth Amendment the other standard
should be held to continue in force.
The reasons previously stated dispose of the case and
make it plain that it is our duty to answer the first question, No, and the second, Yes; but before we direct the
entry of an order to that effect we come briefly to dispose
of an issue the consideration of which we have hitherto
postponed from a desire not to break the continuity of
discussion as to the general and important subject before
US.
In various forms of statement not challenging the instructions given by the trial court concretely considered
concerning the liability of the election officers for their
official conduct, it is insisted that as in connection with
the instructions the jury was charged that. the suffrage
amendment was unconstitutional because of its repugnancy to the Fifteenth Amendment, therefore taken as a
whole the charge was erroneous. But we are of opinion
that this contention is without merit, especially in view

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

of the doctrine long since settled concerning the selfexecuting power of the Fifteenth Amendment and of what
we have held to be the nature and character of the suffrage
amendment in question. The contention concerning the
inapplicability of § 5508, Rev. Stat., now,§ 19 of the Penal
Code, or of its repeal by implication, is fully answered
by the ruling this day made in United States v. Mosley,
No. 180, post, p. 383.
We answer the first question, No, and the second question, Yes.
And it-will be so certified.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

MYERS AND OTHER

v. ANDERSON.

SAME v. HOWARD.
SAME v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE- DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Nos. 8, 9, 10.

Argued November 11, 1913.-Decided June 21. 1915.

Guinn v. United States, ante, p. 347, followed as to the effect and operation of the Fifteenth Amendment and that a State may not establish
as a standard for exercising suffrage a standard existing prior to the
adoption of that Amendment and which was rendered illegal thereby.
While the Fifteenth Amendment does not confer the right of suffrage
on any class, it does prohibit the States from depriving any person
of the right of suffrage whether for Federal, state or municipal elections.

