OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. CLARK
BROTHERS COAL MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 29A.

Argued May'14, 1915.-ecided June 21, 1915.

The essential character of commerce determines whether it is interstate
or intrastate and not mere billing or the place where title passes.
Where, for the purpose of filling contracts with purchasers in other
States, coal is delivered, f. o. b. at the mine, for transportation to
such purchasers, the movement and the facilities required are those
of interstate commerce.
Whether the rule or method of car distribution for mines furnishing
coal f. o. b. at the mines for shipment to other States as practiced
by a railroad company is unjustly discriminatory is one which the
Interstate Commerce Commission has authority to pass upon.
Where the complaint involves an attack upon the rule or method of
car distribution practiced by the carrier in distributing cars for
interstate shipments, no action is maintainable in any court for damages alleged to have been inflicted thereby until the Commission has
made its finding as to the reasonableness of such rules and methods.
Under such conditions the Interstate Commerce Commission has authority to examine into, and report upon, the amount of damages
sustained by a shipper by reason of such discrimination, as rules as
to car distribution are within the provision of § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commprce.
Where, as in this case it appears that the Act to Regulate Commerce
has been violated and the requisite ruling as to the unreasonableness
of the practice assailed has been made by, the Commission, § 9 applies and is exclusive, and the shipper must elect between a proceeding for reparation award before the Commission or a suit in the
Federal court. He cannot resort to the state court.
After a proceeding before, and award by, the Commission, suit may be
brought under § 16 of the act in either a state or a Federal court.
The Act to Regulate Commerce governs the shippers no less than it
governs the carrier.

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Where a shipper goes before the Interstate Commerce Commission,
with a complaint under that act against a carrier for discrimination
on car distribution and secures a finding of illegality of the carrier's
violation of the act, and obtains an award, his claim for damages by
reason of such violation can be prosecuted only under the Interstate
Commerce Act, and a suit cannot be maintained therefor under
the state statute; and this is so notwithstanding the fact that the
action in the state court is brought before the Commission has made
the award.
Penna. R. R. v. PuritanCoal Co., 237 U. S. 121, and Ill. Cent. R. R. v.
Mulberry Hill Coal Co., ante, p. 275, distinguished as in those cases
the shipper had not invoked the jurisdiction of the Commission, attacking the carrier's rule.
241 Pa. St. 515, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a shippr of coal
to recover damages from a carrier for alleged inadequate
and discriminatory car service, and the construction of
the statute of Pennsylvania and of the provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act applicable thereto, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Francis I. Gowen and Mr. John G. Johnson, with
whom Mr. F. D. McKenney was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The state court was without jurisdiction to entertain
action.
Cars for coal sold f. o. b. mines are vehicles of interstate transportation.
The adequacy of ratings of defendant in error's mines
was erroneously submitted to the jury.
The award of the Interstate Commerce Commission
is a bar. Hillsdale Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R., 19 I. C. C.
356; Inter. Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452;
Jones v. Penna. R. R., 17 I. C. C. 361; Morrisdale Coal
Co. v. Penna. R. R., 176 Fed. Rep. 230; S. C., 230 U. S.
304; Penn Refining Co. v. West. N. Y. & Penna. Ry.,
137 Fed. Rep. 343; Puritan Coal Mining Co. v. Penna.
R. R., 237 Pa. St. 420.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Mr. A. M. Liveright and Mr. A. L. Cole for defendant
inerror:
The state court has jurisdiction. The distribution
itself was improper under the state law. The proceedings before, and the award made by, the Interstate Commerce Commission is not a bar to this action.
In support of these contentions, see Atlantic Coast
Line v. No. Car. Comm., 206 U. S. 1; Chi., M. & St. P. Ry.
v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S.
299; Hillsdale Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R., 228 Pa. St. 61;
Last Chance Min. Co. v. Tyler Min. Co., 157 U. S. 687;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; Same v.
Same, 183 U. S. 503, 518; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R.,
236 U. S. 433; Missouri Pac. Ry. v. Larabee Mills, 221
U. S. 612; New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371,
397; Nor. Pac. R. R. v. North Dakota, 216 U. S. 579;
Penn Refining Co. v. West. N. Y. & Penna. Ry., 137
Fed. Rep. 343; Puritan Coal Min. Co. v. Penna. R. R.,
237 Pa. St. 453; Richmond &c. R. R. v. Patterson Tobacco
Co., 169 U. S. 311; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Smith
v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Southern Pac. Co. v. United
States, 168 U. S. 1, 48; Wadley Southern Ry. v. Georgia, 235
U. S. 651; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Commercial Mill Co., 218
U. S. 406; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; Wisconsin &c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in January, 1912, by the Clark
Brothers Coal Mining Company (defendant in error)
in the Court of Common Pleas of Clearfield County,
Pennsylvania, to recover damages for inadequate and
unjustly discriminatory car service and supply. The
complaint related to the action of the defendant company
with respect to cars required for the transportation of
coal from the plaintiff's mines known as Falcon, Nos. 2, 3,

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.

238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and 4, in Clearfield County, and Falcon, Nos. 5 and 6,
in Indiana County, Pennsylvania, between October, 1905,
and April 30, 1907. A statute of Pennsylvania [Act of
June 4, 1883, P. L. 72, 4 Purd. 3906; see Const. (Pa.)
1873, Art. 17] prohibits undue or unreasonable discrimination by any common carrier 'in charges for or in facilities for the transportation of freight within this State
or coming from oi going to any other State,' and provides
that the carrier guilty of unjust discrimination shall be
liable 'for damages treble the amount of injury suffered.'
On behalf of the defendant (plaintiff in error) the
jurisdiction of the court to entertain the action was challenged upon the ground that with respect to car distribution the defendant was subject to the Act to Regulate
Commerce, and that the claim of the plaintiff was cognizable only by the Interstate Commerce Commission or by
the courts of the United States. It was urged further
that in a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, which had been instituted by the plaintiff
against the defendant prior to the beginning of this action,
the Commission had found that the method of car distribution practiced by the defendant with respect to the
plaintiff's mines known as Falcon, Nos. 2, 3, and 4, was
unjustly discriminatory, and that the Commission had
made an award of damages accordingly; and that by
reason of this pro ceeding and the action of the Commission the plaintiff was precluded from maintaining the
present action so far as it related to the alleged loss sustained with respect to the mines last described.
The trial court overruled these contentions of the defendant. The jury, finding discrimination, assessed the
damage at $41,481 and trebled the amount making
$124,443. Motions in arrest of judgment and for a new
trial and for judgment non obstante veredicto, upon the
grounds above stated (and others) were denied. Judgment for the total amount of the verdict was entered and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 241 Pa.
St. 515. And this writ of error has been sued out.
It clearly appeared that the proceeding before the
Interstate Commerce Commission as to the mines Falcon,
Nos. 2, 3, and 4, embraced substantially the same claim
as that litigated in this action. As the trial judge said:
"It" (the plaintiff) "did get an award of damages for
what we understand to be practically the same subjectmatter." That proceeding was instituted by the plaintiff
in June, 1907. Its petition, among other things, alleged
that it had been, and was, 'engaged in mining and shipping
coal to points and places of delivery and to the coal markets beyond the State of Pennsylvania,' and that it had
during all the period mentioned, to wit, 'from the fifteenth
day of October, 1905, to the date of the filing of this complaint' orders for coal to be mined and shipped 'beyond
the lines of said State.' It complained of the rating of its
mines by the defendant and also of unjust and unreasonable discrimination against it in the daily distribution of
cars 'for the transportation of its coal into the interstate
markets'; that it had suffered "great loss and damage in
its business 'as a producer, shipper and seller of bituminous
coal' in the interstate coal trade, and that such damage
amounted in the aggregate to $36,401.12. It prayed for
hearing, for an ascertainment of the damages which it
had sustained in its interstate business by reason of unreasonable preferences given to its competitors as alleged,
and for a determination of the proper basis of car distribution to be observed. After hearing, the Commission made
its report on March 7, 1910. 19 I. C. C. 392. On the
same day, the Commission rendered its decision in Hillsdale Coal & Coke Co. v. Penna. R. R. (19 I. C. C. 356), involving similar questions as to the method practiced by
the defendant in distributing 'its available coal car equipment.' Upon this point, the Commission there said:
"Under a rule announced by it on February 1, 1.903,

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.

238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant seems to have charged all railroad cars,
regardless of ownership, and private cars not owned by the
operator loading them, against the distributive share of
each mine, but it treated its own fuel cars as a special
allotment in addition to the distributive share. On
March 28, 1905, a notice was sent to shippers of bituminous coal from mines on the lines of the defendant advising
them that thereafter all railroad cars, regardless of ownership, and all private cars not owned by the operator loading them, should be considered as cars available for distribution, except its own company fuel cars and fuel cars
sent upon its lines by foreign companies and specially
consigned to particular mines.
"On January 1, 1906, the defendant divided all cars
into two classes which it designated as 'assigned' and
'unassigned' cars. In the former class were its own fuel
cars, foreign railway fuel cars, and individual or private
cars loaded by their owners or assigned by their owners to
particular mines. The rule then made effective and still
in force provides that the capacity in tons of any'assigned'
cars shall be deducted from the rated capacity in tons of
the particular mine receiving such cars, and that the remainder is to be regarded as the rated capacity of the mine
in the distribution of all 'unassigned' or system cars."
Id., p. 362.
After illustrating the operation of this system and the
advantage in distribution thus given to mines having
assigned cars (Id., pp. 363, 364), the Commission concluded:
"Upon all the facts shown. of record the Commission
therefore finds that throughout the period of the action
the system upon which the defendant distributed its
available coal-car equipment, including system fuel cars,
foreign railway fuel cars, and individual or private cars,
has subjected the complainant to an undue and an unlawful discrimination."

OCTOBER TEA M, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

In the case of the plaintiff's petition, the Commission
held that so far as -the rating of its mines was concerned
'there was no substantial basis for any finding of discrimination.' But, in the matter of car distribution, unjust
discrimination was found. The Commission said (19
I. C. C. 394-6):
"There are a number of mines on the Moshannon branch
of the defendant that are owned by other operators, but
in this connection it will suffice to mention only the six
mines operated by or for the Berwind-White Coal Mining
Company, one of which, known as Eureka No. 27, immediately adjoins the complainant's Falcon No. 2. The same
'D' coal vein is worked in these two mines. The quality
of the coal is therefore the same and it is claimed that the
capacities of the two mines were substantially the same
at the period involved in the first of these two complaints.
"But neither Falcon No. 2 nor the mines of the complainant, the Clark Brothers Coal & Mining Company,
was placed on an equal footing with the mines of the
Berwind-White Coal Mining Company in the matter of
the distribution of the defendant's available coal-car
equipment during the period of the actions. .
"It is established with reasonable clearness on the record
that the Berwind-White mines during the years 1906 and
1907, as well as to a period immediately preceding those
dates, were daily in receipt of coal cars in large numbers
and were therefore kept in operation almost c6ntinuously
while the complainants received an inadequate supply
and were not able, therefore, to run their mines to the
best advantage. This difference is largely explained by
the fact that the Berwind-White Coal Mining Company
owned a large number of private cars and also enjoyed contracts for supplying the defendant and its connection with
coal. Under the rules of defendant, fully explained in
Hillsdale Coal & Coke Co. v. P. R. R. Co., ante, the owner-

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ship of such private cars and the enjoyment of these contracts resulted in the special allotment to the mines of
that company of these so-called assigned cars. For the
reasons explained at some length in that case those rules
operated as an undue discrimination against these complainants, and we so find. But for the present and for the
reasons there explained we shall limit our order to a finding
that in the several respects here mentioned the defendant
was guilty of a discrimination against these complainants, leaving for determination after further argument the
question of the extent to which the complainants may have
been damaged thereby."
Order was entered accordingly condemning the defendant's rule and practice of distribution (as stated) as a violation of § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, requiring the defendant to desist from that practice, and reserving the question of damages for further consideration. Subsequently, in April, 1911, this question was submitted, and it was determined on March 11, 1912. 23
I. C. C. 191. The Commission then made its report as
follows: "We now find that the damages sustained by this
claimant as result thereof" (the discrimination found)
"amounted to $31,127.96, and that it is entitled to an
award of reparation in that sum, with interest from
June 25, 1907."
The Commission set forth its primary findings of fact
upon which this ultimate finding was based, showing its
calculations with respect to shipments, selling prices, cost
of production, and profits, during the times in question.
It found the number of tons, in case of each of the mines,
actually shipped and the amount which would have been
shipped and sold, with a proper car supply, for 'interstate
destinations,' that is, for points without the State of
Pennsylvania.
This action was brought after the first report of the
Commission, and while the question of damages was under

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

its consideration. The trial judge in charging the jury
described the system of car distribution in use, and the
practice of the defendant prior to and after January 1,
1906. Referring to the rule promulgated on that date, it
was recognized that it in effect gave a distinct advantage
to the mine having 'assigned cars' over one that did not
have them, but the jury were instructed that 'for the
purposes of this case,' it might 'be considered that it was a
fair rule of distribution.' The subject committed to them
was thus stated in the concluding portion of the instructions: "In considering the damages, therefore, in case you
find discrimination, you must first ascertain what would
have been, under all the circumstances testified to, a fair
rating of the plaintiff's mines in both regions. Second, if
after having such fair rating a comparison with the alleged
preferred shippers would entitle it to an increased number
of cars and what that increased number of cars would be,
and if the evidence at the same time shows that the preferred shipper received day by day and month by month
throughout the period of the action, an excess over its
proper pro rata share, the plaintiff would be entitled to
recover at your hands a verdict for what you may find its
fair share of such excess of cars amounted to in tons,
estimated just as we have laid down the rule with respect
to the method of calculating. Now then, if you allow for
discrimination, then you may disregard all question as to
inadequacy or insufficiency of car supply, because you
cannot allow for both. For discrimination, after you have
made an estimate of the amount of damages and found a
definite sum as compensation for the injuries which it
sustained, that would be single damages, and if you find
that there was discrimination, as claimed by the plaintiff's
counsel then you can go to the question as to whether there
shall be treble damages under the Act of 1883.

.

.

If you find discrimination, therefore, and you arrive at or
estimate the amount of single damages which you believe

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff has sustained by reason of such undue- and
unreasonably discriminatory acts practiced against it, it is
for you to say whether or not that amount should be
trebled, that is, multiplied by three." The jury, as we
have said, did find discrimination, and trebled the damages.
In considering the right of the plaintiff to maintain this
action, despite the proceeding before the Commission, an
initial question is presented as to the nature of the commerce involved. It appeared, as stated-by the state court,
that practically all the coal mined by the plaintiff was
sold f. o. b. cars at the mines. About ninety-five or
ninety-eight per cent. was sold in this way. Hence, it is
said, it is "not subject to Interstate Commerce regulation."
We do not understand that it is questioned that a very
large part of the damages recovered in this action pertain
to coal which with a fair method of car distribution would
have been shipped from the mines to purchasers in other
States. There is no controversy as to the course of business. The plaintiff sold to persons within and without the
State of Pennsylvania. The coal was loaded on cars to be
transported to various points of destination not only in
Pennsylvania but in other States. The transportation to
other States absolutely depended upon a proper supply of
cars, and it is manifest that unjust discrimination against
the plaintiff in car distribution would improperly obstruct
the freedom of such transportation, in which the plaintiff
had a direct interest. And the question presented is
whether unjust discrimination of this character is a subject which falls without the scope of the jurisdiction conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission, that is,
whether there is an absence of such jurisdiction merely
because the plaintiff sold its product, which was to be
transported to other States, f. o. b. at its mines.
This question must be answered in the negative. In
VOL. ccxxxviii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

determining whether commerce is interstate or intrastate,
regard must be had to its essential character. Mere
billing, or the place at which title passes, is not determinative. If the actual movement is interstate, the power of
Congress attaches to it and the provisions of the Act to
Regulate Commerce, enacted for the purpose of preventing
and redressing unjust discrimination by interstate carriers,
whether in rates or facilities, apply. Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, 512; So. Pac. Terminal Co. v. Inter.
Comm. Comm., 219 U. S. 498, 526, 527; Ohio R. R. Comm.
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108, 110; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501, 520; Texas & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Tram
Co., 227 U. S. 111, 127; Louisiana R. R. Comm. v. Tex. &
Pac. Ry., 229 U. S. 336; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Louisiana R. R.
Comm., 236 U. S. 157, 163. Thus, in the case of Southern
Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
supra, cotton seed cake which had been purchased by one
Young at various places in Texas was shipped to him at
the port of Galveston, where it was prepared for export.
The court sustained the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission with respect to the transportation
to Galveston, although between Texas points, it being an
incident to the export movement, and held that the
special privileges given by the Terminal Company to
Young on the wharf were undue preferences. As the
commodity was destined for export it made no difference,
said the court,, that the shipments of the products were
not made on through bills of lading or whether their
initial points were Galveston or some other points in
Texas.' In Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington,
supra, it appeared that the State Commission had established a rate on what was called 'lake cargo coal' transported from a coal field in eastern Ohio to ports in the
same State on Lake Erie for carriage thence by lake
vessels to other States. Ordinarily, the shipper had the
coal transported 'upon bills of lading to himself, or to

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

another for himself,' at Huron, Ohio. The rate covered
the transportation to Huron and the placing of the coal
on the vessels and trimming it for its interstate journey.
In view of the proved nature of the movement, the court
held that the action of the State Commission was an
attempt directly to regulate interstate commerce and the
enforcement of the order of the State Commission was
enjoined. Again, in Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 520,
the complainant was a manufacturer in Minnesota and
sold- his commodity to purchasers in Indiana, the delivery
being f. o. b. cars at Minneapolis for transportation to
Indiana in the original unbroken packages, the freight
being paid by the purchasers. Referring to an objection
similar to the one here urged, the court said: "In answer,
it must again be said that 'commerce among the States is
not a technical legal conception, but a practical one,
drawn from the course of business.' Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 398; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203
U. S. 507, 512. It clearly appears from the bill that the
complainant was engaged in dealing with purchasers in
another State. His product manufactured in Minnesota
was, in pursuance of his contracts of sale, to be delivered
to carriers for transportation to the purchasers in Indiana.
This was interstate commerce in the freedom of which
from any unconstitutional burden the complainant had a
direct interest." In Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. Sabine
Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111, 127, it was found that the Powell
Company bought lumber for export to different ports in
Europe through the ports of Sabine and Port Arthur, both
in Texas. To fill its export contracts, it purchased of the
Sabine Tram Company a large amount of lumber, which
according to the seller's option was delivered f. o. b. cars
at Sabine, Texas. There were separate bills of lading for
delivery at Sabine to the Sabine Tram Company. Upon
arrival at Sabine, the lumber was carried a short distance
beyond the station to the dock where it was unloaded from

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

cars into water of the slip ready for loading upon ships.
The Sabine Tram Company had no connection with the
further carriage. The railroad company collected, over
protest, the rates fixed by tariffs filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and the Sabine Tram Company
brought suit to recover the difference between the amount
thus paid and the amount which would have been payable
at the rate fixed by the State Commission. The court
held that the rate fixed by the Interstate Commerce
Commission was applicable as the lumber was destined for
export and that, as the movement was one actually in the
course of transportation to a foreign destination, the form
of the billing to Sabine, and the transactions there, were
not determinative.
Thus, in varying circumstances, the same principle
has been applied in these cases and in the others cited;
and that principle is that the jurisdiction of the Commission isdetermined by the essential character of the commerce in question. In the present case, to repeat, it
appears that for the purpose of filling contracts with
purchasers in othet' States, coal is delivered f. o. b. at
the mines for transportation to such purchasers. The
movement thus initiated is an interstate movement and
the facilities required are facilities of interstate commerce. A very large part of what in fact is the interstate
commerce of the country is conducted upon this basis
and the arrangements that are made between seller and
purchaser with respect to the place of taking title to the
commodity, or as to the payment of freight, where the
actual movement is interstate, does not affect either the
power of Congress or the jurisdictioni of the Commission
which Congress has established.
In this view, we come to the consideration of the effect
of the proceeding before the Commission.
1. The question whether the rule or method of car
distribution practiced by the railroad company was un-

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

justly discriminatory was one which the Commission
had authority to pass upon. Inter. Comm. Comm. v.
Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452; Same v. Chicago &c. R. R.,
215 U. S. 479; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230
U. S. 304, 313; Penna. R. R. v.. Puritan Coal Co., 237
U. S. 121, 131. Further, by reason of the nature of the
question involved in an attack upon the rule or method
of the company in distributing cars, no action was maintainable in any court to recover damages alleged to have
been inflicted thereby until the Commission hAd made
its finding as to the reasonableness of the rule. Tex. &
Pac.Ry. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 441, 448;
Balt. & Ohio R. R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481,
493; Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506, 511;
United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87, 107;
Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania Railroad, supra;
Pennsylvania Railroad v. Puritan Coal Co., supra. The
Commission also had authority to make examination
.and report upon the amount of damages which the plaintiff had suffered from the unjust discrimination alleged
in its complaint. We deem the provisions of the Act
to be clear upon this point. See §§ 8, 9, 13, 16. There
is nothing in the Act to suggest that the damages which
may thus be ascertained are only those arising from
unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory rates. Rules
as to car distribution that are unjustly discriminatory
are within the purview of section three, and damages
thereby occasioned, as well as those due to the exaction
of unreasonable rates, arise frotii the violation of the
Act and their ascertainment is within the scope of the
Commission's authority. See Inter. Com. Comm. v.
Ill. Cent. R. R., supra; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R.,
230 U. S. 247, 257; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R.,
supra; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Puritan Coal Co., 237
U. S. 121.
2. Where, as in this case, it appears that the Act has

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

been violated, and the requisite ruling as to the unreasonableness of the practice assailed has been made by the
Commission, the provisions of section nine are applicable.
This section provides:
"SEc. 9. That any person or persons claiming to be
damaged by any common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act may either make complaint to the Com-,
mission as hereinafter provided for, or may bring suit
in his or their own behalf for the recovery of the damages
for which such common carrier may be liable under the
provisions of this Act, in any district or circuit court of
the United States of competent jurisdiction; but such
person or persons shall not have the right to pursue both
of said remedies, and must in each case elect which one
of the two methods of procedure herein provided for he
or they will adopt." .
This provision defines the remedies to which a person
in the.situation of the plaintiff is entitled, and the terms
of the provision clearly indicate that these remedies are
exclusive. The express requirement of an election be-.
tween the proceeding before the Commission and suit
in the Federal court leaves no room for the conclusion
that there is an option in such case to resort to the state
court. Where the proceeding has been had before the
Commission and reparation awarded, suit under section
sixteen (as amended in 1910) may be brought in either a
state or a Federal court, but this is after the Commission's
award has been made.
In Pennsylvania Railroad v. P.uritan Coal Co., supra,
construing section nine, the court said: "It will be seen
that this section does more than create a right and designate the court in which it is to be enforced. It gives
the shipper the option to proceed before the Commission
or in the Federal courts. The express grant of the right
of choice between those two remedies was the exclusion
of any other remedy in a state court.
.
In Mit-

PENNA. R. R. v. CLARK COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

chell Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 250, the same view
of the statute was taken in discussing another, but
related, question. This construction is also supported
by the legislative history of the statute. For while
the Hepburn Act, as a convenience to shippers, permitted
suits on Reparation Orders to be brought in the Federal court of the District where the plaintiff resided
or the Company had its principal office; and while the
Act of 1910 (36 Stat. 554) in further aid of shippers,
permitted suits on Reparation Orders to be brought in
state or Federal courts, it made no change in §§ 8 and 9
which, as shown above, gave the shipper the option to
make complaints to the Commission or to bring suit in a
United States court." Referring to the proviso in section
twenty-two, with respect to the preservation of existing
remedies, it was then pointed out that the proviso was
not intended to nullify other parts of the Act, but to
maintain existing rights which were not inconsistent
with those which the statute created. And, finally,
with regard to a case such as the present one, where the
Commission at the instance of the injured party has
made its ruling as to the unreasonableness or unjustly
discriminatory character of the practice attacked, the
court thus defined the remedy available: "Until that
body" (the Commission) "has declared the practice to
be discriminatory and unjust no court has jurisdiction
of a suit against an interstate carrier for damages occasioned by its enforcement. When the Commission has
declared the rule to be unjust, redress must be sought
before the Commission or in the United States courts of
competent jurisdiction as provided in § 9."
3. It is said that the present action is brought to recover
damages caused by the violation or discriminatory en•forcement of the carrier's own rule, and that in such case,
no administrative question being involved, resort to
the Commission was not necessary. And this, it is urged,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

was held in Penna. R. R. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S.
121. See also Illinois Central R. R. v. Mulberry Hill
Coal Co., decided June 14, 1915, ante, p. 275. The distinction, however, is apparent. In the cases cited the plaintiff
had not invoked the jurisdiction of the Commission. In
this case, it had done so. It went before the Commission,
with its complaint under the Act, assailing the rule of
the company, and it secured from the Commission a
finding as to the illegality of the rule and the violation
of the Act. This proceeding established the character
of the claim so far as interstate transactions were concerned, and it could be prosecuted solely under the Federal
statute. This follows necessarily from the supremacy
of the Federal legislation in relation to interstate c6mmerce. So long as the creative provisions of the Federal
act did not appear to be involved, and the wrong was
not disclosed in the aspect presented by the Commission's
finding, the plaintiff was free to avail itself of commonlaw remedies or of those afforded by local statutes. But
when, as a result of its own insistence upon its Federal
right under the Act, it appeared that the Act had been
violated and that the special remedial provisions of the
Act were applicable, it was not possible for the plaintiff
to ignore the statute it had thus called into play and
disregard its provisions for the purpose of measuring
.relief by local standards. The Federal statute governed
the plaintiff no less than the defendant. In the situation
in which the plaintiff stood after the Commission's finding, that, statute determined theextent of the damages
it was entitled to recover with respect to interstate sales
and shipments, and the plaintiff was not free to seek
another remedy in the state court and there to secure
treble damages under the state statute with"respect to
the same transactions.
This is not to say that the finding of the Commission
as -to the amount of damages has any. other effect than

MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

that prescribed in section sixteen of the Act. It is simply
to hold that the plaintiff, having demanded and obtained
the appropriate ruling from the Commission as to the
discrimination which had been practiced, was then entitled to proceed for the recovery of damages in accordance with the Act, and not otherwise. The fact that
the Commission had not made its award of damages at
the time the action was brought is immaterial. The
proceeding before the Commission was pending and the
plaintiff's right and remedy were fixed by the Federal act.
We conclude, therefore, that with respect to the damage sustained by the plaintiff in its interstate business by
reason of the unjustly discriminatory distribution of
cars for interstate shipments, the plaintiff was not entitled to maintain this action under the state statute.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

MILLS, AS SURVIVING PARTNER OF NAYLOR
& COMPANY, v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT
No. 631.

Argued May 11, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

In a suit under § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, a report of the
Interstate Commerce Commission finding that the rate complained
of was unreasonable, and awarding specified amount for reparation,
is prima facie evidence of the damages sustained although the evidential or .primary facts are not set forth. Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh
Valley R. R., 236 U. S. 412; id. 434.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission makes an award to a

