368

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

of the doctrine long since settled concerning the selfexecuting power of the Fifteenth Amendment and of what
we have held to be the nature and character of the suffrage
amendment in question. The contention concerning the
inapplicability of § 5508, Rev. Stat., now,§ 19 of the Penal
Code, or of its repeal by implication, is fully answered
by the ruling this day made in United States v. Mosley,
No. 180, post, p. 383.
We answer the first question, No, and the second question, Yes.
And it-will be so certified.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

MYERS AND OTHER

v. ANDERSON.

SAME v. HOWARD.
SAME v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE- DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Nos. 8, 9, 10.

Argued November 11, 1913.-Decided June 21. 1915.

Guinn v. United States, ante, p. 347, followed as to the effect and operation of the Fifteenth Amendment and that a State may not establish
as a standard for exercising suffrage a standard existing prior to the
adoption of that Amendment and which was rendered illegal thereby.
While the Fifteenth Amendment does not confer the right of suffrage
on any class, it does prohibit the States from depriving any person
of the right of suffrage whether for Federal, state or municipal elections.

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Election officers who refuse to allow persons to exercise their suffrage
because of a state law disqualifying them according to a standard
made unconstitutional by the Fifteenth Amendment are liable for
damages in a civil action under § 1979, Rev. Stat.
Where the standards fixed for voters are several in number, but are all
so interrelated that one cannot be held invalid without affecting the
others, the entire provision must fail.
Where a statute establishing qualifications for exercising suffrage is
unconstitutional, it does not deprive the citizens of the right to vote,
as the previously existing statute is unaffected by the attempted
adoption of one that is void for unconstitutionality.
The so-called Grandfather Clause in the statute of Maryland of 1908
fixing the qualifications of voters at municipal elections in the City
of Annapolis, based on the right of the citizen or his ancestor to vote
at a date prior to the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment is unconstitutional because the standards then existing have been made
illegal by the self-operating force of the Fifteenth Amendment.
182 Fed. Rep. 223, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, of the statute of Maryland fixing qualification of voters and containing what has been known as
the Grandfather's Clause, and the construction and application of § 1979, Rev. Stat., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William L. Marbury and Mr. Ridgley P. Melvin,
with whom Mr. William L. Rawls was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
The cases at bar are controlled by the case of Giles v.
Harris,189 U. S. 475.
The portions of § 4 of the. Annapolis Registration Law
which are alleged in the declaration to be void because
of being in conflict with the Fifteenth Amendment, constitute the only part of that law which makes any change
in the preexisting law prescribing qualifications for registration and suffrage in the City of Annapolis,
The legislature would, therefore, certainly not have
enacted this law without these provisions. Therefore,
VOL. ccxxxviii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

an averment that these provisions are void is equivalent
to an averment that the whole Annapolis Registration
Law is void. Therefore, under Giles v. Harris the plaintiffs are not entitled to maintain the suit..
Aside from the above, and irrespective of the allegations of the declaration, it is plain that the Annapolis
Registration Law is either valid as a whole or void as a
whole. But the defendants as registrars had no power or
authority to register the plaintiffs, except such as was
derived from this law. It is admitted that they were
appointed under that law, and had no power to act under
any other law. If, therefore, the law in question is void,
they had no power or legal authority to register the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs cannot recover damages against
them on account of their failure to do so.
Even if the court were to be of opinion that Class 3,
the so-called Grandfather's Clause, alone was void, that
it was separable from the balance of the act, and that the
balance of the act was valid, still the plaintiffs would not
be entitled to recover, because it is admitted that they
were disqualified under Classes 1, 2 and 22, the Property Clause, and Naturalized Citizen Clause of the
act.
Conclusion: It follows that the question as to whether
the Annapolis Registration Act or the Grandfather's
Clause of that act is valid or invalid, constitutional or
unconstitutional, is not involved in this case, and will not
be passed upon by the court, for the reason that in neither
event are the plaintiffs entitled to recover.
Such a conclusion will not mean that the Fifteenth
Amendment is waste paper and cannot be enforced. If
that Amendment is applicable to state elections and municipal elections, it can be enforced in a case like this by
Congress by legislation directed at the State of Maryland
instead of at individuals, as authorized by § 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment, under which Congress is empowered

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to compel a State to obey the Amendment by "appropriate legislation."
The Grandfather's Clause is not violative of the Fifteenth Amendment. Even if this clause excluded all
negroes, it would not necessarily follow that they were
excluded on account of their race. They might have been
excluded on account of their politics. They might have
been excluded on account of some characteristic, mental,
moral or temperamental, such exclusion might be entirely
unjust or morally wrong, but it would not be violative
of the Fifteenth Amendment.
The declarations filed in these cases are insufficient in
law, because they fail to allege that the action of the defendants in refusing to register the plaintiffs was corrupt
or malicious.
Malice is an essential allegation in a suit of this kind
against registration officers at common law.
The few cases holding the contrary are based upon a
mistaken view of what was decided in Ashby v. White.
Revised Stat., § 1979, under which these suits are brought,
gives no new or. different right of action from that given
by the commoh law, but only such right of action as would
be a proper proceeding for redress at common law, and
does not dispense with the necessity of alleging and proving malice.
Revised Stat., § 1979, has no application to the cases
at bar, because it was passed solely to protect the civil
rights guaranteed or secured under the Fourteenth
Amendment, Holt v. Indiana Mfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68;
Wadleigh v. Newhall, 136 Fed. Rep. 946.
In any event, the acts complained of by plaintiffs
do not constitute a deprivation of any right, privilege
or immunity secured by the Constitution. and laws of
the United States within the meaning of Rev. Stat.,
§ 1979. Carter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317.
The inhibitions contained in the Fifteenth Amendment

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

against the denial or abridgment of the right of citizens of
the United States to vote on account of race, color or
previous conditicn of servitude, is by the plain language
.of the Amendment made to apply only to the right to
vote which citizens of the United States have by virtue
of such citizenship, that is, the right to vote derived from
the United States, and not such right to vote as they derive from the States, and the inhibition therein contained
does not apply to or in any way affect the right of a citizen
of a State to vote at state or municipal elections, such right
being derived exclusively from the State, and not inhering
in any man in his capacity as a citizen of the United
States.
The Fourteenth Amendment provides that "no State
shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States."
This inhibition applies only to privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States as such, as distinguished
from the citizens of a State. The canon of construction
announced in Slaughter House Cases equally applicable
to the Fifteenth Amendment, which is in precisely similar
language.
The distinction between national and state citizenship and their respective privileges there drawn, i. e., in
Slaughter House Cases, has come to be firmly established.
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 96.
The legislative history of the Fifteenth Amendment confirms the above as a proper construction. As originally
introduced, the amendment read: "No State shall deny
or abridge the right of its citizens to vote and hold office
on account of race, color or previous condition." The
Judiciary Committee reported back the resolution, striking out the words "the right of its citizens" (i. e., the
citizens of the State), and substituting the words "the
right of citizens of the United States to votes."
The right to vote for members of Congress is a right

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

possessed by a citizen of the United States as such, said
right being derived primarily not from a State, but from
the United States. Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651;
Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S.58; Swafford v. Templeton, 185
U. S. 491.
The opinions expressed by members of Congress during
the debate on the Aihendment do not constitute any guide
for its construction. The meaning of the act must be
determined from the language used therein. United
States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S.318.
From United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, to James
v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 122, the courts have overruled the
construction placed by Congress on the Fifteenth Amendment by striking down as unconstitutional the statutes
passed to enforce it.
The question of the applicability of the inhibitions of
the Fifteenth Amendment to state or municipal elections
were not necessarily involved in those cases, the point was
not raised or considered, and therefore cannot be deemed to
have been adjudicated. Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370.
The words "right of a citizen of the United States to
vote" in the Fifteenth Amendment do not in any event
mean or refer to the right to vote in corporate bodies.
created solely by legislative will, and wherein such right is
dependent altogether upon legislative discretion, as in
municipal corporations.
The words "right to vote" as used in the statutes or
constitutions generally means the right to vote at elections
of a public general character, and not at municipal elections. There is a great weight of authority to this effect,
especially Maryland cases.
If construed to have reference to voting at state or
municipal elections, the Fifteenth Amendment would be
beyond the amending power conferred upon three-fourths
of the States by Art. V of the Constitution, and therefore,
the Amendment should not receive that construction, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

is fairly open to a more limited construction. Knights
Templar Ihdemnity Co. v. Jarman,187 U. S. 197.
Where a statute is susceptible of two constructions,
by one of which grave and doubtful constitutional questions arise and by the other of which such questions are
avoided, our duty is to adopt the latter. United States v.
Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 407.
The right to determine for itself who shall constitute
its electorate, is one of the functions essential to the
existence of a State, and any invasion of that right is
beyond the power of amendment conferred upon threefourths of the States by the people in the adoption of the
Constitution; otherwise there could be no indestructible
States. Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700; Lane County v.
Oregon, 7 Wall. 71.
If construed to be applicable to state or municipal
elections, the Fifteenth Amendment would fall within
the express prohibition contained in Art. V of the Constitution against any amendment which would deprive
a State of its equal representation in the Senate without
its consent. Texag v. White, 7 Wall. 700; article by
Arthur W. Machen, Jr., in 23 Har. Law Review, pp. 169 to
193.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts besides
these cited support these contentions.
Mr. EdgarH. Gans, with whom Mr. Morris A. Soper and
Mr. Daniel R. Randall were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The evidence was legally sufficient.
It is not necessary that wrong should be willful and
malicious.
A specific right to vote is given substantially in this case
by the Fifteenth Amendment.
There is a remedy by act of Congress and § 1979, Rev.
Stat., applies.

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Fifteenth Amendment applies to municipal elections.
The Act of 1908 is only void in part.
The Fifteenth Amendment extends to state elections.
In support of these contentions, see Aultman v. Brownfield, 102 Fed. Rep. 13; Bevard v. Hoffman, 18 Maryland,
479; Brickhouse'v. Brooks, 165 Fed. Rep. 534; Carter v.
Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3;
County Com. v. Duckett, 20 Maryland, 478; Dwight v.
Rice, 5 La. Ann. 580; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S.
246; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 591; Giles v' Harris,
189 U. S. 475; Hambleton v. Rathborn, 175 U. S. 144;
Hanna v.. Young, 84 Maryland, 179; Hemsley v. Myers, 45
Fed. Rep. 290; Holt v. Indiana Mfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68;
Howell v. Pate, 119 Georgia, 539; Iowa v. Des Moines,
96 Iowa, 186; Karem v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep. 252;
McCain v. Des Moines, 174 U. S. 175; Neale v. Delaware,
103 U. S. 370; Pattisonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169; Pope
v. Williams, 98 Maryland, 66; S. C., 193 U. S. 621; Shaeffer
v. Gilbert, 73 Maryland, 66; Sutherlandv. Norris, 74 Maryland, 326; United States v. Bowman, 100 U. S. 508; United
States v. Cruikshank, 25 Fed. Rep. 712; United States v.
Lackey, 99 Fed. Rep. 956; United States v. Oregon Co., 164
U. S. 256; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Victor v.
Arthur, 104 U. S. 498; Wadley'v. Newhall, 136 Fed. Rep.
946; Willis v. Kalmbach, 64 S. E. Rep. 342; Wood
v. Fitzgerald, 3 Oregon, 563; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110
U. S. 651; see also Acts of May 31, 1870, c. 114, .now
Rev. Stat., § 2004, and Act of Apr. 20, 1871, c. 22, now
Rev. Stat., § 1979; Acts of Assembly of Maryland, 1908,
c. 525 and of 1896, c. 202, §38; Constitution of Maryland,
Art. I, § 1.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
These cases involve some questions which were not in
the Guinn Case, No. 96, just decided, ante, p. 347. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

foundation question, however, is the same, that is, the
operation and effect of the Fifteenth Amendment.
Prior to the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment the
privilege of suffrage was conferred by the constitution of
Maryland of 1867 upon "every white male citizen," but
the Fifteenth Amendment by its self-operative force
obliterated the word white and caused the qualification
therefor to be "every male citizen" and this came to be
recognized by the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland. Without recurring to the establishment of the City
of Annapolis as a municipality in earlier days or following
the development of its government, it suffices to say that
before 1877 the right to vote for the governing municipal
body was vested in persons entitled to vote for members of
the General Assembly of Maryland, which standard by
the elimination of the word white from the constitution by
the Fifteenth Amendment embraced "every male citizen."
In 1896 a general election law comprising many sections
was enacted in Maryland. (Laws of 1896, c. 2G2, p. 327.)
It is sufficient to say that it provided for a board of supervisors of eleftions ih each county to be appointed by the
governor and that this board was given the power to
appoint two persons as registering officers and two as
judges of election for each election precinct or ward in the
county. Under this law each ward or voting precinct in
Annapolis became entitled to two registering officers.
While the law made these changes in the election machinery it did not change the qualification of voters.
In 1908 an act was passed "to fix the qualifications of
voters at municipal elections in the City of Annapolis and
to provide for the registration of said voters." (Laws of
1908, c. 525, p. 347.) This law authorized the appointment of three persons as registers, instead of two, in each
election ward or precinct in Annapolis and provided for
the mode in which they should. perform their duties and
conferred the right of registration and consequently the

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right to vote on all male citizens above the age of twentyone years who had resided one year in the municipality and
had not been convicted of crime and who came within any
one of the three following classes:
"1. All taxpayers of the City of Annapolis assessed on
the city books for at least five hundred dollars. 2. And
duly naturalized citizens. 2V. And male children of
naturalized citizens who have reached the age of twentyone years. 3. All citizens who, prior to January 1, 1868,
were entitled to vote in the State of Maryland or any
other State of the United States at a state election, and
the lawful male descendants of any person who prior to
January 1, 1868, was entitled to vote in this State or in any
other State of the United States at a state election, and no
person not coming within one of the three enumerated
classes shall be registered as a legal voter of the City of
Annapolis or qualified to vote at the municipal elections
held therein, and any person so duly registered shall,
while so registered, be qualified to vote at any municipal
election held in said city; said registration shall in all
cther respects conform to the laws of the State of Maryland relating to and providing for registration in the
State of Maryland."
The three persons who are defendants in error in these
cases applied in Annapolis to the board of registration to
be registered as a prerequisite to the enjoyment of their
right to vote at an election to be held in July, 1909, and
they were denied the right by a vote of two out of the
three members of the board. They consequently were
unable to vote. Anderson, the defendant in error in
No. 8, was a negro citizen who possessed all the qualifications required to vote exacted by the law in existence prior
to the one we have just quoted, and who on January 1,
1868, the date fixed in the third class in the act in question,
would have been entitled to vote in Maryland but for the
fact that he was a negro, albeit he possessed none of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

particular qualifications enumerated by the statute in
question. Howard, the defendant in error in No. 9, was a
negro citizen possessing all the qualifications to vote required before the passage of. the act in question, whose
grandfather resided in Maryland and would have been
entitled to vote on January 1, 1868, but for the fact that
he was a negro. Brown, the defendant in error in No. 10,
also had all the qualifications to vote under the law previously existing and his father was a negro residing in
Maryland who would have been able to vote on the date
named but for the fact that he was a negro. The three
parties thereupon began these separate suits to recover
damages against the two registering officers who had refused to register them on the ground that thereby they
had been deprived of a right to vote secured by the
Fifteenth Amendment and that there was liability for
damages under § 1979, Rev. Stat., which is as follows:
"Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or
Territdey, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen
of the United Stated or other person within the jurisdiction
thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or
immunities secured by the Constitution and Laws,, shall
be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in
equity, or other proper proceeding for redress."
The complaints were demurred to and it would seem
that every conceivable question of law susceptible of
being raised was presented and considered, and the demurrers were overruled, the groitnds for so doing being
stated in one opinion common to the three cases (182
Fed. Rep. 223). The cases were then tried to the court
without a jury, and to the judgments in favor of the
plaintiffs which resulted these three separate writs of error
were prosecuted.
The non-liability in any event of the election officers for
thcr offi6ial conduct is seriously pressed in argument, and

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it is also urged that in any event there could not be liability under the Fifteenth Amendment for having deprived of the right to vote at a municipal election. But
we do not undertake to review the considerations pressed
on these subjects because we think they.are fully disposed
of by the ruling this day made in the Guinn Case and by
the very terms of §2004, Rev. Stat., when considered in the
light of the inherently operative force of the Fifteenth
Amendment as stated in the case referred to.
This brings us to consider the statute in order to determine whether its standards for registering and voting are
repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment. There are three
general criteria. We test them by beginning at the third,
as it is obviously the most comprehensive and, as we shall
ultimately see, the keystone of the arch upon which all
the others rest. In coming to do so it is at once manifest
that barring some negligible changes in phraseology that
standard is in all respects identical with the one just decided in the Guinn Case to be repugnant to the Fifteenth
Amendment and we pass from its consideration and
approach the first and a subdivision numbered 22. The
first confers the right to register and vote free from any
distinction on account of race or color upon all taxpayers
assessed for at least $500. We put all question of the
constitutionality of this standard out of view as it contains no express discrimination repugnant to the Fifteenth
Amendment and it is not.susceptible of being assailed on
account of an alleged wrongful motive on. the part of the
lawmaker or the mere possibilities of its future operation
in practice and because as there is a reason other than
discrimination on account of race or color discernible upon
which the standard may rest, there is no room for the
conclusion that it must be assumed, because of the impossibility of finding any other reason for its enactment,
to rest alone upon a purpose to violate the Fifteenth
Amendment. And as in order to dispose of the case, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

we shall see, it is not necessary to examine the constitutionality of the other standards, that is, numbers 2 and
22 relating to naturalized citizens and their descendants,
merely for the sake of argument we assume those two
standards, without so deciding, to be also free from constitutional objection and come to consider the case under
tht hypothesis.
The result then is this, that the third standard is void
because it amounts to a mere denial of the operative effect
of the Fifteenth Amendment and, based upon that conception, proceeds to re-create and reestablish a condition
which the Amendment prohibits and the existence of which
had been previously stricken down in consequence of the
self-operative force of its prohibitions; and the other
standards separately considered are valid or are assumed
to be such and therefore are not violative of the Fifteenth
Amendment. On its face, therefore, this situation would
establish that the request made by all the plaintiffs for
registration was rightfully refused since even if the void
standard be put wholly out of view, none of the parties
had the qualifications necessary to entitle them to register
and vote under any of the others. This requires us
therefore to determine whether the two first standards
which we have held were valid or have assumed to be so
must nevertheless be treated as non-existing as the necessary result of the elimination of the third standard because of its repugnancy to the prohibition of the Fifteenth
Amendment. And by this we are brought therefore to
determine the interrelation of the provisions and the dependency of the two first including the substandard under
the second upon the third; in other words, to decide
whether or not such a unity existed between the standards
that the destruction of one necessarily leaves no possible
reason. for recognizing the continued existence and operative force of the others.
In the Guinn Case this subject was also passed upon and

MYERS v. ANDERSON.
238 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

it was held that albeit the decision of the question was in
the very nature of things a state one, nevertheless in the
absence of controlling state rulings it was our duty to pass
upon the subject and that in doing so the overthrow of an
illegal standard would not give rise to the destruction of a
legal one unless such result was compelled by one or both
of the following conditions: (a) Where the provision as a
whole plainly and expressly established the dependency
of the one standard upon the other and therefore rendered
it necessary to conclude that both must disappear as the
result of the destruction of either; and (b) where even
although there was no express ground for reaching the
conclusion just stated, nevertheless that view might
result from an overwhelming implication consequent
upon the condition which would be created by holding
that the disappearance of the one did not prevent the
survival of the other, that is, a condition which would be
so unusual, so extreme, so incongruous as to leave no
possible ground for the conclusion that the death of the
one had not also carried with it the cessation of the life
of the other.
That both of these exceptions here obtain we think is
clear: First,, because looking at the context of the provision we think that the obvious purpose was not to subject to the exactions of the first standard (the property
qualification) any person who was included in the other
standards; and second, because the result of holding that
the other standards survived the striking down of the
third would be to bring about such an abnormal result
as would bring the case-ithin the second exception, since
it would come to pass that every American born citizen
would be deprived of his right to vote unless he was able
to comply with the property qualification and all naturalized citizens and their descendants would be entitled to
vote without being submitted to any property qualification whatever. If the clauses as to naturalization were

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

assumed to be invalid, the incongruous result just stated
would of course not arise, but the legal situation would
be unchanged since that view would not weaken the conclusion as to the unity of the provisions of the statute,
but on the contrary would fortify it.
But it is argued even although this result be conceded,
there nevertheless was no right to recover and there must
be a reversal since if the whole statute fell, all the clauses
providing for suffrage fell and no right to suffrage remained and hence no deprivation or abridgment of the
right to vote resulted. But this in a changed form of
statement advances propositions which we have held to
be unsound in the .Guinn Case. The qualification of
voters under the constitution of Maryland existed and
the statute which previously provided for the registration and election in Annapoli' was unaffected by the void
provisions of the statute which we are considering. The
mere change in some respects of the administrative
machinery by the new statute did. not relieve the new
officers of their duty nor did it interpose a shield to prevent the operation upon them of the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States and the statutes passed
in pursuance thereof. The conclusive effect of this view
will become apparent when it is considered that if the,
argument were accepted, it would follow that although
the Fifteenth Amendment by its self-operative force
without any action of the State changed the clause in
the constitution of the State of Maryland conferring
suffrage upon "every white male citizen" so as to cause
it to read "every male citizen," nevertheless the Amendment was so supine, so devoid of effect as to leave it
open for the legislature to write back by statute the discriminating provision by a mere changed form of expression into the laws of the State and for the state officers
to make the result of such action successfully operative.
There is a contention pressed concerning the applica-

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tion of the statute upon which the suits were based to
the acts in question. But we think in view of the nature
and character of the acts, of the self-operative force of the
Fifteenth Amendient and of the legislation of Congress
on the subject that there is no ground for such contention.

Affimed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of these cases.

UNITED STATES v. MOSLEY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 180. Submitted October 17, 1913.-Dqcided June 21, 1915.
Section 19 of the Criminal Code, § 5508 Rev. Stat., punishing conspiracy to injure, oppress or intimidate any citizen in the full exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States is constitutional and constitutionally extends protection to the right to vote for members of
Congress and to have the vote when cast counted.
While § 19 of the Criminal Code when originally enacted was § 6 of
the Enforcement Act and Congress then had in mind the doings of
the Ku Klux and the like against negroes, the statute-dealt at the
time with all Federal rights of all citizens and protected them all,
and still continues so to do.
Section 19, Criminal Code, applies to the acts of two or more election
officers who conspire to injure and oppress qualified voters of the
district in the exercise of their right to vote for member of Congress
by omitting the votes cast from the count and the return to the
state election board.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 5508, Rev. Stat., and § 19 of the Penal Code,
are stated in the opinion.

