CENTRAL VERMONT RY. v. WHITE.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

CENTRAL VERMONT RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WHITE, ADMINISTRATRIX OF WHITE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 407.

Argued April 23, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

The filing of a large number of assignments of error perverts the purpose of the rule requiring assignments, and the practice cannot be
approved. Phillips v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 648.
On writ of error to review a judgment of the state court in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, this court considers only
assignments relating to matters of practice, pleading and evidence
involving the construction of the Federal statute.

It was not error in the trial court to refuse to direct a verdict for defendant on the ground that the proof failed to show negligence in
allowing a faster freight train to run into a slower train in front of
it, the engineer of the former having received notice that the track
was clear and that it might proceed. The.evidence was sufficient -to
support a verdict.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act abolishes the fellow servant rule
and an employd does not assume risks arising from unknown defects
in engines, machinery or appliances.
While matters of procedure depend upon the law of the place where
the suit is brought, matters of substance in regard to an action
basqd on a Federal statute depend upon the statute; and in an action under the Employers' Liability Act the burden of proof as to
whether the employ6 was guilty of contributory negligence is a
matter of substance and not of mere state procedure.
The Federal courts have uniformly held that as a matter of general
law the burden of proving contributory negligence is on the defendant, and have enforced the principle even in States which hold, as
does Vermont, that the burden is on the plaintiff of proving that
he was not guilty thereof.
In passing the Federal Employers' Liability Act Congress intended
that it should be construed in the light of the decisions of the Federal
courts made prior to the enactment in this respect.
In an action under the Employers' Liability Act rulings of the state
court in regard to the effect of amendments and replications are

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

matters of state pleading tmd practice and the decisions of the state
court are binding on this court.
Under Lord Campbell's Act, and in a few of the American States, the
jury apportion damages in cases of death by negligence of defendant, but the omission of this requirement in the Employers' Liability
Act indicates the intention of Congress to follow the practice in
most of the American States of not requiring such apportionment.
In case the plaintiff sues under the Employers' Liability Act for the
benefit of parties not entitled to share in the recovery, and if the
verdict is increased as the result of such inclusion, defendant may
raise the question in a manner appropriate under the practice of the
court in which the trial is had. North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary,
232 U. S. 248.
Questions of general law in regard to admission of evidence in regard to
delivery and contents of written papers and as to inspection of engines which involve no construction of the Employers' Liability Act
cannot, under § 237, Judicial Code, be reviewed on writ of error to
the state court.
87 Vermont, 330, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injury in an action under the Employers' Liability Act, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. Redmond for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Warren R. Austin for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
1. On January 12, 1912, Enoch L. White was killed in
a rear end collision while employed as brakeman on the
Vermont Central, an interstate Railway. His Administratrix sued the Company, in a Vermont court, for "the
benefit of the widow and next of kin, minor children."
The jury returned a verdict of $7,168. The judgment
thereon was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State
(87 Vermont, 330) and the case was brought here on a
record containing so many assignments, covering 18

CENTRAL VERMONT RY. v. WHITE.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

printed pages, as to make it proper to repeat the ruling in
Phillips v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 648 that the "practice of
filing a large number of assignments cannot be approved.
It perverts the purpose sought -to be subserved by the rule
requiring any assignments." "It points to nothing and
thwarts the purpose of the rule" (Chicago Great Western
Ry. Co. v. McDonough, 161 Fed. Rep. 659) which was intended to present to the court a clear and concise statement of material points on which the plaintiff in error
intends to rely. Some of the assignments in the present
case relate to matters of pleading; others to the admissibility of evidence, to the sufficiency of exceptions, and
to various rulings of the trial court which involve no construction of the 'Employers' Liability Act and which,
therefore, cannot be considered on writ of error from a
state court. Seaboard Air Line v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477,
486.
2. We shall, therefore, only consider those assignments,
discussed in the brief, which raise a Federal question.
Among them is the contention that the court failed to
direct a verdict for the defendant because the proof failed
to show negligence of the company or to prove the facts
necessary to establish liability under the Federal law.
Southern Pac.Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601; North Carolina
R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248.
The evidence showed that on the night of Jan. 1st, 1912,
Enoch L. White was employed by the Central Vermont
Railway Company as brakeman on extra freight train
No. 401. It had passed several miles north of Bethel,
Vermont, and was proceeding up grade at a low rate of
speed. White and the other employ6s thereon had no notice that it was followed by a faster freight train (No. 708),
which, at Bethel, had received a "Clearance Card"
indicating that the track ahead was clear and that it
might proceed. The engine, pulling train No. 708, had a
leaking cylinder, from which steam escaped in such

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

quantities as to make it impossible for the engineer to see
the tail lights of the train on which White was employed.
The result was that the faster train (708) ran into the
slower train (401) and in the collision White was killed.
The evidence was amply sufficient to sustain a finding that
the death of White was due to the fault of the agents of the
Railway Company.
3. Complaint is made because the court failed to instruct the jury as to the law respecting the assurhption
of risks. But there was not only no request to charge on
that subject, but there is no evidence that White knew
of the negligence of the agent in giving a "Clearance
Card" or of the leaking cylinder which obscured the
vision of the engineer. He did not assume the risk arising
from unknown defects in engines, machinery or appliances,
while the statute abolishes the fellow servant rule. 35
Stat. 65, § 2. Under the facts there was, therefore, no
error in failing to charge-the jury on the subject of assumption of risks. Southern Ry. v. Gadd, 233 U. S. 572; Gila
Valley Ry. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 102; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 504.
4. The defendant, however, insisted that White knew
his train was behind time and running at a low rate of
speed. The Company contended that, in view of these circumstances, it was his duty, under the rules, to put out
lighted fusees and torpedoes in order to give warning of
the presence of train No. 401 on the track. On that
theory the Company asked the court to charge that the
burden was on the Administratrix to show that White
was not guilty of contributory negligence. In considering
that exception the Supreme Court of Vermont held that
the defendant's contention was based on a correct statement of the state rule, but said "This case, however, is
brought upon an act of Congress which supersedes the
laws of the State in so far as the latter cover the same field.
Consequently the question of the burden of proof respect-

CENTRAL VERMONT RY. v. WHITE.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing contributory negligence on the part of the injured employ6 is to be determined according to the provisions of
that act, . .
," Citing Seaboard Air Line v. Moore,
193 Fed. Rep. 1022; S. C., 228 U. S. 434.
In this court the argument was devoted principally to a
discussion of this ruling-counsel for the Railroad Company earnestly insisting that "the lex fori must determine
all questions of evidence, including that of the burden of
proof. Wharton on Conflict of Laws (3d ed.), § 478b."
It was argued that there is nothing in the Federal statute
indicating an intent to change the state rule as to the burden of proof, and it is claimed that because of the court's
mistaken construction of the Federal Act the Railway
Company has been deprived of a right to which it was entitled under the laws of Vermont.
There can, of course, be no doubt of the general principle that matters respecting the remedy-such as the
form of the action, sufficiency of the pleadings, rules of
evidence, and the statute of limitations-depend upon the
law of the place where the suit is brought. McNiel v. Holbrook, 12 Pet. 89. But matters of substance and procedure
must not be confounded because they happen to have the
same name. For example, the time within which a suit
is to be brought is treated as pertaining to the remedy.
But this is not so if, by the statute giving the cause of action, the lapse of time not only bars the remedy but destroys the liability. Phillipsv. Grand Trunk Ry., 236 U. S.
662; Boyd v. Clark, 8 Fed. Rep. 849; Hollowell v. Horwick,
14 Massachusetts, 188; Cooper v. Lyons, 77 Tennessee,
597 (2); Newcombe v. Steamboat Co., 3 Iowa (G. Greene),
295. In that class of cases the law of the jurisdiction,
creating the cause of action and fixing the time within
which it must be asserted, would control even where the
suit was brought in the courts of a state which gave a
longer period within which to sue. So, too, as to the burden of proof. As long as the question involves a mere

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

matter of procedure as to the time when and the order in
which evidence should be submitted the state court can,
in those and similar instances, follow their own practice
even in the trial of suits arising under the Federal law.
But it is a misnomer to say that the question as to the
burden of proof as to contributory negligence is a mere
matter of state procedure. For, in Vermont, and in a few
other States, proof of plaintiff's freedom from fault is a
part of the very substance of his case. He must not only
satisfy the jury (1) that he was injured by the negligence
of the defendant, but he must go further and, as a condition of his right to recover, must also show (2) that he
was not guilty of contributory negligence. In those
States the plaintiff is as much under the necessity of proving one of these facts as the other; and as to neither can
it be said that the burden is imposed by a rule of procedure, since it arises out of the general obligation imposed
upon every plaintiff, to establish all of the facts necessary to make out his cause of action. But the United
States courts have uniformly held that as a matter of
general law the burden of proving contributory negligence is on the defendant. The Federal courts have
enforced that principle even in trials in States which
hold that the burden is on the plaintiff. Railroad v.
Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401 (1), 407-408; Hough v. Railway Co.,
100 U. S. 225; Inland &c. Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551 (4),
557; Washington &c. R. R. v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 581;
Hemingway v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 114 Fed. Rep. 843. Congress in passing the Federal Employers' Liability Act
evidently intended that the Federal statute should be
construed in the light of these and other decisions of the
Federal courts. Such construction of the statute was, in
effect, approved in Sea Board Air Line v. Moore, 228
U. S. 434. There was, therefore, no error in failing to enforce what the defendant calls the Vermont rule of procedure as to the burden of proof.

CENTRAL VERMONT RY. v. WHITE.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

5. There are, however, a series of assignments in this
record which must be disposed of in conformity with the
general principle that matters affecting the remedy are
to be governed by the law of the forum. They are all based
on the fact that, while the Railway Company had lines
running through Massachusetts and Vermont into Canada, the declaration contained no allegation that White
was engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the
collision. The Company made this the ground of a plea
in bar. The Administratrix thereupon filed a Replication
admitting that the deceased was engaged in such commerce at the time of his death. The Company demurred
to the Replication on the ground that it was a departure
from the cause of action under the state law and the
assertion of a new cause of action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Law. This demurrer was overruled
and after verdict the defendant made the same facts the
basis of a motion in arrest of judgment.
The evidence showed a liability under the Employers'
Liability Act, and without stopping to discuss whether, on
general principles, the motion should not have been overruled because the declaration was amendable to conform
to the proof (Grand Trunk Railway v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
48; Toledo, St. L. & Western R. R. v. Slavin, 236 U. S.
454) it is sufficient to say that the Supreme Court of
the State held that the defect in the original declaration
had been cured by. the charge in the plea and the admission in the Replication that White was employed in interstate commerce. That decision on a matter of state pleading and practice is binding on this court.
6. Another assignment relates to the form of the verdict:
The administratrix brought suit "for the benefit of the
widow and next of kin, minor children." The defendant
did not ask the court to instruct the jury to apportion
the damages and there was a verdict for the plaintiff for
$7,168. The defendant then moved in arrest "because'
voL. ccxxxvi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the verdict of the jury in this case was a general verdict."
In this court there was a departure from the language
of the exception and error is assigned "because the judgment being in solido is void under the Federal Employers'
Liability Law for the reason that damages must be apportioned by the jury in accordance with the dependency of
the relatives entitled to recover for his death." In support of that contention, the defendant relies on the statement in Gulf &c. Ry. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 176, that
"though the judgment may be for a gross amount, the
interest of each beneficiary must be measured by his or her
individual pecuniary loss. That apportionment is for
the jury to return. This will,, of course, exclude any recovery in behalf of such as show no pecuniary loss."
That statement must be read in the light of the record
then before the court. It showed that one of those named
as a beneficiary was a married daughter of the deceased
living with her husband and supported by him. The
jury actually apportioned the damages, so the question
as to the validity of a verdict in solido was not raised by
the record. The quoted language is part of its holding,
that it was error to refuse to charge that the married
daughter was not a dependent of her deceased father.
But there was nothing in that record which would support a ruling that a general verdict was invalid or that the
verdict could be set aside because it failed to fix the
amount each beneficiary was to receive.
Under Lord Campbell's Act (9 & 10 Vict., ch. 93, § 2)
and in a few of the American States the jury is required to
apportion the damages in this class of cases. But even
in those States the distribution is held to be of no concern
to the defendant and the" failure to apportion the damages
is held not to be reversible error (Norfolk &c. Ry. v.
Stevens, 97 Virginia, 631 (1), 634; International Ry. v.
,Lehman, 72 S. W. Rep. 619)-certainly not unless the
defendant can show that it has been injured by such

CENTRAL VERMONT RY. v. WHITE.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

failure. The Employers' Liability Act is substantially like
Lord Campbell's Act, except that it omits the requirement
that the jury should apportion the damages. That omission clearly indicates an intention on the part of Congress
to change what was the English practice so as to make the
Federal statute conform to what was the rule in most of the
States in which it was to operate. Those statutes, when
silent on the subject, have generally been construed not
to require juries to make an apportionment. Indeed, to
make them do so would, in many cases, double the issues;
for, in connection with the determination of negligence'and
damage, it would be necessary also to enter upon an
investigation of the domestic affairs of the deceased-a
matter for Probate Courts and not for jurors. If, as in the
McGinnis Case, the plaintiff sues for the benefit of one who
is not entitled to share in the recovery (Taylor v. Taylor,
232 U. S. .363; North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S.
248), and if her inclusion in the suit might increase the
amount of the recovery,-the defendant may raise the
question, in such mode as may be appropriate under the
practice of the court in which the trial is had, so as to secure a ruling which will prevent a recovery for one not
entitled to share in the benefits of the Federal act. But no
such question was or could have been raised in the present
case, since, as matter of law, the wife and minor children
were all to be treated as entitled to share in the amount
recovered for the death of the husband and father. 35
Stat. 65.
7. Assignments 25 and 27 relate to the refusal of the
court to permit testimony as to the delivery and contents
of the "clearance card" and the refusal to permit the
Railway Company to show that under the Federal law
all engines, including 708, had been inspected and found
to be in good condition. They both raise questions of
general law. They involve no construction of the Federal
statute and neither directly nor indirectly affect any

OCTOBER. TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Federal right. Those assignments, therefore, under
Jud. Code, § 237; Rev. Stat., § 709, will not be reviewed on
a writ of error to a state court. Seaboard Air Line v.
Duvall. See also Chicago Junction Ry. v. King, 222 U. S.
222 and Yazoo & Miss. R. R. v. Wright, 235 U. S. 376,
which state the rule where similar cases are brought here
by writ of error to a Federal court.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA
AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 517.

Argued December 9, 10, 1914.-Decided June 21, 1915.

A. railroad corporation engaged at the time of the passage of the
Hepburn Act in the business of mining, buying, transporting and
selling coal, in order to divest itself of title after the coal had been
mined and before transportation began, caused a coal company to be
incorporated having stockholders and officers in common with itself; thereupon the two corporations having a common management entered into a contract prepared by the railroad company
under which the railroad company did not go out of the mining and
selling business, but when the coal was brought to the surface it lost
title by'a sale to the coal company f. o. b. the mines and instantly
as carrier regained possession and retained it until delivery to the
coal company which subsequently paid the contract price; the
price paid was a fixed percentage of the priee at a stated terminal
on the day of delivery at the mines, and the railroad agreed to sell
all of the coal it produced or purchased from others to the coal company and the latter company agreed to buy only from the railroad
company and subject to the contract; the stockholders of the railroad company were allowed to take pro rata the stock of the coal
company and practically all availed of the option, and the coal company declared a dividend on each share of stock sufficient to pay for

