KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

KAPIOLANI ESTATE, LIMITED, v. ATCHERLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 174.

Argued April 30, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

A decree was made in 1855, by the Hawaiian court having jurisdiction,
to the effect that one who was guardian of a minor had wrongfully
obtained from the Land Commission registration in his own name of
property belonging to the minor, and that he, and his heirs claiming
the property after his decease, held the property as trustee for the
ward, and should convey the same to him; the decree was acquiesced
in so far as possession was concerned, but no deed was ever executed,
and subsequently those holding under the heirs of the guardian having commenced an ejectment suit relying on the legal title, the grantee of the ward brought this suit to enjoin prosecution of the ejectment suit; meanwhile in a suit between a "grantee of the ward and
others claiming under the heirs of the guardian, it was held that a
title registered by the Land Commission could not be attacked;
the record in that suit, however, did not disclose the relations of the
guardian and the ward; this court having affirmed that judgment, the
Hawaiian courts in this case, while admitting that they had fallen
into error in the former decision by reason of not giving full effect
to the guardianship relations, followed it because it had been affirmed
by this court. Held that:
In Lewers & Cooke v. Atcherley, 222 U. S. 285, the suggestion that
the relation of guardian and ward existed had no substantial foundation on the record, and this court followed the decision of the
local court; the relationship of guardian and ward having now
been cleared up and the record in this case showing that it did
exist, the courts of Hawaii should have given full effect to that
fact, notwithstanding the affirmance by this court of the prior and
contrary decision of the Hawaiian court when it did not appear,
and so the judgment is reversed and the case sent back to the
Hawaiian court.
Under the law of the Hawaiian Islands as far back as 1846, a
guardian could not, through the instrumentality of an award of the
Land Commission, obtain a title to the property of his ward which

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

238 U. S.

would be so immune from subsequent attack that the wrong would
be without redress.
There is nothing to hinder a court from changing its action on a
different view of law, after an interlocutory decree or to hinder a
party to the action from availing itself of such change unless the
decision has the finality of res judicata.
A corporation, grantee of a portion of the grantor's property, is
not a privy to a grantee of another portion, and a judgment against
the latter in a suit in which the corporation was not a party, although some of its officers as individuals had notice thereof and
took some part in the defense, is not res judicata if the acts of such
officers were, as in this case, merely individual and not authorized
by the corporation.
In order to make a judgment against the grantor available to
the grantee of the title his covenantor must receive notice of the
suit and have an opportunity to defend.
21 Hawaii, 441, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the title to land in Hawaii,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. David L. Withington, with. whom Mr. William R.
Castle, Mr. W. A. Greenwell and Mr. Alfred L. Castle were
on the brief, for appellant:
The judgment of 1858 was right and should be enforced. "A minor on coming of age can obtain relief in
equity against a guardian who in fraud of his ward, presents a claim and obtains in his own name an award of
title to the minor's land."
The exact point was raised and decided in the equity
action in 1858, it was necessarily involved in the probate
proceeding in that year, the decision of the Supreme Court
of Hawaii on demurrer in 1903 declined to review it, and

it is sustained by the present decision.

The equity suit before Chief Justice Allen did not seek
to set aside the land commission award, but to obtain its

fruits. The jurisdiction had been expressly granted to the
SupremeCourt by statute before 1858.

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The court, before 1858, had declared its jurisdiction in
plain terms, and has since consistently maintained such
construction of its jurisdiction.
This is in accord with the decisions of this court.
The acts in regard to Mexican land grants in California
provided for a decree and patent of similar conclusive
effect to a land commission award in Hawaii, and this
court has repeatedly held that trust relations are not
affected.
The decree in 1858 is based on the ownership of the
property by Kalakaua, a minor; that Kinimaka was his
guardian, owing him the duty to present the land for
award to the land commission; the presentation and
obtaining the award to himself; the minor's coming of
age, and the obligation of the guardian to account. In
other words, it was an equitable action by a minor against
his guardian for an accounting upon coming of age.
Kalakaua was the undoubted owner of the property.
Kinimaka was the guardian of Kalakaua and as such
had absolute control and management of the ward's
property, with the power of disposition.
It was his duty to present the land to the Land Commission for award and his failure to do so forfeited Kalakaua's right.
A guardian is. not allowed to set up title against his
ward.
The guardian is under an equitable obligation to account.
The ward, in the accounting, can elect to take the property.
The right of the ward is a contractual or quasicontractual right against the guardian, which rights are
not affected by a land commission award.
This court should reverse the judgment in accordance
with familiar rules of equity and should follow the law
of the case decided by the Supreme Court of Hawaii
when it was the court of last resort.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

238 U. S.

This is a matter of local law and custom, in which this
court should follow the local courts, which have in this
action three times ruled the law with appellant.
The court of the time when these local laws and customs
were in force twice so decided between litigants, to whom
the parties in this action are privies.
This court should not interfere with the exercise of discretion by the Supreme Court of Hawaii in refusing to
open up the decree of 1858 in aid of a speculator, claiming
title under a breach of trust by a wrongdoer, where this
would result in mischief to innocent parties and is not
essential to the equities of the case.
The minor never had his day in court until the actions
in 1858.
The Hawaiian court erred in holding that the decision of
this court in the Lewers & Cooke Case was binding although erroneous. But, if binding, it should be overruled.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts are cited
in support of these contentions.
Mr. Lyle A. Dick ey, with whom Mr. E. M. Satson and
Mrs. Mary H. Atcherly were on the brief, pro se:
The Supreme Court of Hawaii did not err in holding
that it must follow a United States Supreme Court decision, though that decision upholds a decision of the lower
court on a matter of local law.
There are no facts in this case which give appellant a
greater equity than was possessed by its grantee in the
former case.
The argument that guardianship was claimed and
proved in the ancient equity case and that the resultant
fiduciary relationship between Kinimaka and Kalakaua
gave a court of equity in 1858 authority to re-investigate
the question as to what person had a right to the award
and to order the guardian of the holders of the allodial
title created by the award to convey it to Kalakaua was

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

presented both to the Supreme Court of Hawaii and this
court in the Lewers & Cooke Case.
The rule of the "law of the case" is not involved here.
The court below was also right in following the Lewers
& Cooke Case because of the peculiar relation of appellant
to that case which makes that case binding on appellant
because of appellant's laches, present lack of interest in
the case and res judicata.
The status of the Lewers & Cooke Case is that Qf a prior
case because judgment was first reached in it.
Appellant is barred by laches from any standing in
equity, and having sold all equitable title in the land to
Lewers & Cooke, has no equitable interest in the subjectmatter to sustain this suit.
The Lewers & Cooke decree should be followed in this
case because it is res judicata.
The original tenure of Hawaii from the time Kamehameha first established the monarchy to 1839 was feudal
and a despotism. The king and each overlord under him
had absolute ownership and control of the land and people
under him.,
The constitution of 1839 and laws down to establishment of the Board of Commissioners to Quiet Land Titles
in 1845 gave protection to interests in land, but those interests were still feudal, largely undefined, and the remedy for
wrongful dispossession of an heir was payment of damages,
not return of the land.
The awards of the Board of Commissioners to Quiet
Land Titles created fee simple titles for the first time; did
away with feudal tenure and settled forever all claims to
land arising prior to December 10, 1845.
In the case of 1858 no fraud, actual or constructive, was
pleaded or proved.
The entire record negatives either actual fraud by
Kinimaka or any constructive fraud arising out of fiduciary relations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Equity had no jurisdiction because Kalakaua had an
adequate remedy at law.
Moses Kapaakea Kinimaka was not a party to the
equity case of 1858 and no estoppel of record results from
it against appellees.
The case of Kalakaua v. Kinimaka is a distinct case
from that of Kalakaua v. Pai and Armstrong, guardian,
so no claim can rightly be made that the minors were

before the court as privies of Kinimaka.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts are cited
in support of these contentions.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal to review a decree of the Supreme Court of
Hawaii which reversed a decree of the circuit judge of the
first judicial circuit enjoining the prosecution of an action
of ejectment brought by Mary H. Atcherley, one of the
appellees, against appellant for the recovery of certain
described lands, decreeing that appellant had the equitable title to the lands and that appellees, including Dickey
and Watson, who were made; parties pending the suit,
held the naked legal title thereto as tenants in common,
one-half thereof by Mary H. Atcherley and one-quarter
thereof by each of the other appellees, as trustees of appellant. The decree required that the appellees execute
a conveyance of such title to appellant.
The bill alleges that one David Kalakaua, under and
through whom the appellant company (designated hereinafter as complainant) claims, on or about December 29,
1856, litigated his title with the following parties, under
whom defendant Atcherley claims title, to-wit: Kinimaka, Pai, his wife, and their children, in the Supreme
Court of the Hawaiian Islands, in equity, alleging that
Kinimaka held- title to the lands in trust and as guardian

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Kalakaua and not otherwise, and praying that he,
Kinimaka, be declared trustee of the lands for Kalakaua
and be .decreed to convey the same in fee to Kalakaua;
that summons was duly issued and served on Kinimaka,
who, before filing answer died, leaving a will devising the
lands to his children, whom he left surviving him, and his
widow, Pai; that these facts were suggested to the .court
and it was prayed that the widow and children be made
parties to the suit, and a guardian ad litem be appointed
for the children, it being alleged that they became trustees
of the property in the same manner and under the same
trust as Kinimaka.
That subsequently (March 8, 1858) Kalakaua filed a
petition for administration upon the estate of one Kaniu,
deceased, under whom he claimed title to the lands, and
for the appointment of a guardian ad litem for the minor
children of Kinimaka. That upon the filing of such
petition George E. Beckwith, administrator of the estate of Kinimaka, was appointed guardian ad litem of the
minor children of Kinimaka, and notice was served on
him as such administrator and guardiafi and upon Pai to
show cause why letters of administration might not issue
to Kalakaua upon the estate of Kaniu, deceased.
That upon proceedings being had a decree was rendered adjudging Kalakaua to be the devisee of Kaniu
and directing letters to be issued to him.
That on June 19, 1858, Kalakaua filed a further petition
alleging the same facts substantially which he had alleged in the petitions of December 29, 1856, and March 16,
1857, with the additional fact that one Richard Armstrong had been appointed guardian of the minor children of Kinimaka, and prayed that he might be ordered to
convey the lands to Kalakaua; and that a summons was
duly served upon Armstrong as guardian of the children
and upon Pai; that Armstrong and Pai subsequently answered; that evidence was taken, the case heard upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the merits, and on November 2, 1858, the court duly entered the following decree:
"David Kalakaua against Richard Armstrong, guardian
of Kaniu, David Leleo, and Kinimaka, minor children
of Kinimaka, deceased. The court did order, adjudge and
decree in this matter that Mr. Armstrong, as guardian of
Kaniu, David Leleo, and Kinimaka, minor children of
Kinimaka, deceased, do ,convey to David Kalakaua, the
plaintiff in this cause, the land named Omulimalo, on the
island of Molokai, and the first Apana of land set forth
in Royal Patent 1602 filed in this cause."
That it did not appear either from the records of the
court or from the registry of deeds in Honolulu that the
decree of the court was in fact obeyed but, it is alleged,
that after the decree Kalakaua "ceased to be molested
in any way by either the widow and heirs aforesaid of said
Kinimaka, or by the said Armstrong in their behalf, and
retained open, notorious and undisputed possession and
dealt with the said land in all ways as his own, and continued to do so until he disposed of said property."
The bill here made "all papers, pleadings and exhibits
of whatsoever kind in said equity proceedings" a part of
it and asked leave to refer to them as if actually incorporated therein. Then came the following: "And, in this
connection, the complainant attaches hereto a copy of
the original Land Commission award and royal patent
[they were not previously referred to in the bill], and
copies of the original record of evidence given before the
Land Commission in support of said Land Commission
award and royal patent, the same being referred to and
made a part of the evidenee in said equity proceedings
instituted in the years 1856 and 1857 above referred to,
which said copies are made a part of this bill."
That the successors in title of Kalakaua (the conveyances being set out) had retained and had been in the
same kind of possession and exercised the same disposition

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as he. That such possession in Kalakaua and his successors
was known to the children of Kinimaka; that they attained their majority respectively in 1867, 1871 and 1877
and at no time did they or any of them assert any claim
to the land or deny the rights of Kalakaua or his successors but acquiesced in his and their possession.
The manner by which defendants obtained the title
they assert was set out and it was alleged that owing to
the failure of Armstrong to obey the decree of the court
and convey the interest of the children of Kinimaka as
ordered by the court, complainant's required chain of
title was incomplete and that the action in ejectment of
Mary H. Atcherley, one of the defendants, sought "to
take unconscionable advantage of the above-mentioned
technical error in the chain of title." A cloud upon the
title of complainant was asserted hence to follow and that
it would be inequitable to permit her to prosecute her
action of ejectment and that as naked trustee of the title
she should be required to convey it to appellant.
An injunction, temporary and permanent, was prayed
and that Mary H. Atcherley, the defendant, be declared
trustee and be required to convey the property to complainant.
Copies of the proceedings referred to in the bill were
annexed to it as exhibits. Among these, we have seen,
were the award of the Land Commission and the royal
title. The latter recites that"Whereas the Board of Commissioners to Quiet Land
Titles has awarded to Kinimaka by award No. 129 a
freehold estate less than allodial in the premises mentioned
below, and,
"Whereas, Kinimaka has paid into the government
treasury eighty-two and 50/100 Dollars for the government's rights in said land,
"Therefore, by this Royal Patent Kamehameha
III . . . shows . . . that he has conveyed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

granted in fee simple to Kinimaka that land at Honolulu on the Island of Oahu with these boundaries
It is granted in fee simple to him, his heirs and devisees. .
'
The lands in suit were part of the lands conveyed.
Mary H. Atcherley, then being sole defendant, demurred
to the bill on the ground that it did not set out a cause of
action.
By stipulation of the parties, in order to determine the
question whether the decree of i858 was res adjudicata,
the circuit judge made a pro forma ruling sustaining the
demurrer to the bill and dismissing it.
The complainant appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, it being stipulated that complainant should

do so.
The Supreme Court reversed the decree. 14 Hawaii,
651. In its opinion it recited the facts with great fullness,
completed the allegations of the bill by the exhibits attached, and then disposed of the contentions as follows:
1. The decree adjudging Kalakaua to be the owner of
the land and requiring conveyance of it to be made to
him by Armstrong as guardian of the children of Kinimaka
was not ambiguous, but it took certainty from the averments of the bill and the record and there could "be no
doubt that it was the intention of the court to order the
conveyance of the interests of the minors."
2. The minors were bound by the decree notwithstanding "they were not named as parties defendant in the
suit." This was decided on the authority of Hawaiian
cases and the power of guardians over the estates of their
wards established by them and upon the general principle
of collateral attacks upon judgments. And- specifically
replying to the contention that the decree was not binding because of "the lack of service and upon the merits"
and that the court should refuse to enforce the decree,
it was said:

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It is not contended that the court must in all such

cases reexamine the former proceedings but merely that
it may, in its discretion, do so. Assuming that to be so, we
decline to retry the old case. The guardian appeared
and contested the complainant's claim, presenting in
opposition substantially the same views now sought to
be urged by the respondent. The ward's interest were not
permitted to go by default but were fully defended by
counsel. The decree, while not carried out by the execution of a conveyance, was in fact acquiesced in, as appears
by the bill, by all concerned and complainant and his
successors in interest from that time continuously until
about January, 1900, held open, notorious and undisturbed possession of the land. Under the circumstances,
and after a lapse of more than forty years, we do not
think that the court should examine into the merits of
the former proceedings or refuse to enforce the decree for.
the reasons suggested."
Upon the filing of the mandate of the Supreme Court
in the court below Mary H. Atcherley filed an answer in
which she admitted many of the allegations of the bill,
denied some-among others, the undisturbed possession
of the land in Kalakaua and his successors, as alleged; and
the inferences from it-asserted the validity of her title,
and the staleness of complainant's demand, it having been
"brought forty-three years or more than four times the
term of the statute of limitations since the alleged date
of the alleged decree prdering Richard Armstrong to give
a conveyance." That to enforce a conveyance from her
without giving her an opportunity to be heard upon the
matters set forth in the bill would deprive her of property
without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
By a supplemental answer she alleged the following,
which we state narratively:
Since the filing of the answer the complainant Kapiolani
VOL. COXXXVIII---:9

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Estate, Limited, has parted with all of its estate in the
land by a deed of a small portion to certain named parties
and the balance, with covenants of warranty, to Lewers
and Cooke, Limited, a Hawaiian corporation.
June 29, 1906, that corporation brought suit in the
Court of Land Registration to register its title to the land
conveyed. September 16, 1907, it was decreed that the
corporation had a good title which was entitled to registration. The decree was reversed by the Supreme Court
of the Territory March 5, 1908, that court holding that
the corporation had no title; legal or equitable, to the land.
18 Hawaii, 625. The case was remitted to the Court of
Land Registration for further proceedings and that court
dismissed the petition of the corporation. The latter
appealed from the decision to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, which court modified the decree and on
March 24, 1909, entered a final decree that the corporation
had no title, legal or equitable, to the land. 19 Hawaii,
334. Upon appeal to this court the decision was affirmed.
[Lewers & Cooke, Ltd., v. Atcherley, 222 U. S. 285.]
The decree of the Supreme Court of Hawaii is in full
force and effect and it is alleged that the "proceedings in
the Court of Land Registration, Supreme Court of Hawaii
and Supreme Court of the United States were upon the
merits of the case and the cause of action so finally adjudicated was the same right and cause of action as that
on which complainant in this case has foumded its bill."
There was a replication to the answer and an amendment to the amended bill, and it appears that Mary H.
Atcherley conveyed an undivided half of the property to
Lyle A. Dickey and Edward M. Watson, two of the defendants. They were made parties by consent and answered in the case, in effect repeating the answers of their
grantor.
It was decreed that (1) the allegations of the bill and
replication of complainant were true. (2) The defendants

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and each of them were estopped from litigating against or
in opposition- to the claim of complainant. (3) The defendants held the legal title to the land as tenants in common, one-half by Mary Atcherley and one-fourth by each
of the other defendants. (4) Such title and titles were
held by the defendants respectively as trustees for complainant and that each of them should be decreed to execute conveyance thereof to complainant, all and singular,
the matters appertaining to the title having theretofore
been litigated between the predecessors in title of the complainant and defendants respectively, and that the same
were res judicata. (5) Defendants should be permanently
enjoined from further prosecuting that certain action in
ejectment then pending on the law side of the court,
wherein Mary H. Atcherley was plaintiff and complainant
was defendant.
A conveyance was decreed to be made accordingly and
in case of default after thirty days the clerk of the court
as its commissioner should make such deed. Further
prosecution of the action in ejectment was enjoined.
The decree was reversed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
The opinion is somewhat difficult of condensation. It
rapidly reviews the steps in the litigation exhibited in 14
Hawaii, 651; 18 Hawaii, 625; 19 Hawaii, 47 and 334; and
222 U. S.285. Then this comment was made:
"Notwithstanding the statement made in the Lewers
& Cooke case (19 Hawaii, 48) that there had been no reversal of the facts found by the court of land registration,
the fact found by that court that Kinimaka 'was the
natural guardian of the minor' was not included in the
findings of fact certified up by this court on the appeal to.
the United States Supreme Court. And the fact that the
guardianship relation existed, vitally important though it
was, seems to have received scant consideration in that
case. That Kinimaka was the testamentary guardian of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Kalakaua's property seems to be beyond the range of
dispute at this time. If the relation existed in fact a question as to the regularity of the appointment would not
prevent the assertion of any rights the ward would otherwise have against the guardian. 'It is not essential that
a legal guardianship should exist; the doctrine (constructive fraud) applies wherever the relation subsists in fact.'
2 Pom. Eq. Jur. Sec. 961.
"We are satisfied that this court fell into error in the
Lewers & Cooke case in taking the view that the equity
suit before Chief Justice Allen constituted an attack on
the award of the land commission and that the decree in
that suit amounted to a setting aside of the award. None
of the prior decisions in this jurisdiction which were cited
in support of the view taken are authority for the conclusion reached, as an examination of them will show."
Hawaiian cases were reviewed and the court said:
"The question now presented is whether a minor on
coming of age could obtain relief in equity against a
guardian who had, in fraud of his ward, presented a claim
and obtained in his own name an award from the land
commission of title to the minor's land. This question was
neither involved nor discussed in any of those cases.
"The case of the guardian of a minor obtaining an
award in his own name of land belonging to his ward is
analogous to the case of a guardian who purchases land
with money belonging to the ward, and, in violation of his
fiduciary duty, intentional or otherwise, takes the title in
his own name. In such a case it is well settled, equity,
regarding the land as being the property of the ward, will
declare and epforce a constructive trust in favor of the
ward and-order the conveyance of the legal title. 3 Pom.
Eq. Jur. Secs. 1052, 1058."
After further review of the case and consideration of the
rights of Kalakaua, the action and duty of Kinimaka, the
character and effect of the proceedings which he had in-

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stituted and which were instituted against him by Kalakaua and, after his death, against his devisees, the court
declared that certain principles resulted therefrom and
that "within these principles, then, the decree of 1858 was
not erroneous but right."
The character of the awards of the Land Commission
was considered and described and their proper relation
to the questions and rights of the parties in the case; and
this was said: "If the decree in Kalakauav. Pai and Armstrong was right it ought to be enforced. If the decision
in the Lewers & Cooke Case was correct the present bill
should be dismissed, but if it was wrong, in justice to the
appellee, it ought not to be followed if it can be avoided.
"Being of the opinion that this court was wrong in the
conclusion reached in the Lewers & Cooke Case, and that
the decree of 1858 was not 'erroneous in a fundamental
principle,' and, for the reasons stated in the former opinion in the case at bar, should not be reopened, we should
feel inclined to depart from the ruling made in the Lewers
& Cooke Case were we not bound by it because of its having
been affirmed by the United States Supreme Court.
"It makes no difference that in making that decision
the Supreme Court followed the opinion of this court upon
a matter of local law (222 U. S.294), and that we now believe that that opinion was not well founded. If the former ruling is to be reversed the reversal is to be made by
that court and not this. The most that we can do now is
to respectfully point out wherein, in our judgment, the
former opinion was wrong. This we have done, believing
it was our duty to do it, and with this our duty in the
premises ends."
We have been at pains to recite the pleadings in the
case, the steps in the litigation they detail, and the ruling
and comments of the Supreme Court in order to bring
the factors of judgment under review in proper connection

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

and to estimate the constraint the court deemed that it
was under to follow the decision of this court in the Lewers
& Cooke Case, and whether the court was justified in its
view of that case.
The case at bar easily resolves itself into a few simple
facts and principles which may be summarized from the
pleadings and findings of fact. Kaniu, whose adopted son
Kalakaua was, on the day of her death, by oral will and
according to the custom of the country, appointed him
her heir and left him all of her property. Kinimaka was
Kalakaua's guardian, and, at a session of the Board of
Land Commissioners, procured the land to be awarded to
himself. Then followed litigation-commenced by Kalakaua, to declare Kinimaka his trustee of the title-which
continued after the latter's death against his children,
properly represented, and his widow, which resulted in
the decree (November 2, 1858) establishing Kalakaua's
title to the land.
The decree was not complied with as directed but was
in effect obeyed, and Kalakaua retained possession of the
land and he and his successors have ever since continued
in the open possession of it, of which possession the children of Kinimaka were aware and at no time asserted any
claim to the lands or denied the rights of Kalakaua and
his successors thereto, but at all times acquiesced in the
possession of Kalakaua and his successors in title.
Then came the action of ejectment by defendant Atcherley and this suit to enjoin its prosecution.
The bill was dismissed upon demurrer and the case
carried to the Supreme Court of Hawaii, which reversed
the decree.
Pending the suit the complainant transferred its interest
by warranty deed to Lewers & Cooke, Limited. The latter instituted suit in the Court of Land Registration to
register its title, and it was decreed by that court that it
had a good title which was entitled to be registered. The

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decree was reversed by the Supreme Court of Hawaii and
subsequently this court affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court.
The determining proposition in the case (Lewers & Cooke
Case) was that the award of the Land Commission was
"conclusive against every form of attack" except by appeal by a party who had presented his claims to the Board.
The court considered it immaterial from whom Kinimaka
received the lands or whether he was guilty of actual
fraud or had an honest belief in his title. And it was said:
"The objection to the decree of 1858 appears to go to the
jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter, for the
Land Commission's award was the final decision of a
court of record which was the only court of competent
jurisdiction to decide claims to land accruing prior to its
establishment, and its decision could not be attacked
except by appeal provided by law." But the court further said that even if the objection did not go to the jurisdiction of the court, the result would be the same because
of the finality of the Land Commission's award. 18
Hawaii, 625, 638, 639. See also 19 Hawaii, 47, 334.
The suit in the Court of Land Registration and the
action of the courts thereunder were set up in the present
suit as res judicata. The trial court decided against the
defense and other defenses, and decreed the relief prayed
by complainant. The decree was reversed by the Supreme Court.
We have given excerpts from the opinion of the court
showing the grounds of its action. It will be observed that
the court frankly declared that it had fallen into error in
the Lewers & Cooke Case by deciding that the equity suit
in which the decree of 1858 in favor of Kalakaua was rendered was an attack on the award of the Land Commission
and that the decree amounted to a setting aside of the
award, but felt that it was its duty to adhere to the decision as it had been affirmed by this court, and, explaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

our affirmance, said that the "vitally important" fact
that Kinimaka "was the natural guardian of the minor
[Kalakaua] was not included in the findings of fact certified
up." And the court (Supreme Court of Hawaii) declared:
"That Kinimaka was the testamentary guardian of
Kalakaua's property seems to be beyond the range of dispute at this time." This relationship necessarily was the
important fact. Without it Kalakaua had no claim of
title; with it his right and the right of complainant as his
successor are established and the decree of 1858 establishing his title was correct and the decree in the Lewers &
Cooke Case erroneous.
But defendants say, granting the latter decree was
erroneous, the decree of 1858 was also erroneous, and that
the case then presents the opposition of one erroneous
judgment to another and the last should prevail. And to
establish that the decree of 1858 was erroneous they enter
into a discussion of the laws of Hawaii, the consideration
of the principles upon which the Hawaiian Monarchy was
established in 1845-7, the abolition of the old feudal
tenures of land, the creation of a court (the Board of Land
Commissioners) to quiet land titles, the awards of which
were to be final, and the foundation of fee simple titles to
the Kingdom. But the contentions thus presented have
intricate character, and can only have clear comprehension in local experience and understanding and are best
determined by local interpretation and the decisions of
the courts "on the spot"; and this we recognized when we
affirmed the decree in the Lewers & Cooke Case. The
powers of the Land Commission, we said, "involve
obscure local history concerning a time when the forms of
our law were just beginning to superimpose themselves
upon the customs of the islanders. Such customs are likely
to be distorted when transmitted into English legal speech."
And such consideration and defense moved or tended to
move to the decision in the case. A reference, it is true,

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was made to the contention that Kinimaka was guardian
of Kalakaua, but the fact was dismissed as being a suggestion having no substantial foundation, and also, again
deferring to the local judgments, it was said of the suggestion that "it would be going very far to apply the refined
rules of the English Chancery concerning fiduciary duties
to the relations between two Sandwich islanders in 1846
on the strength of such a fact."
This relationship has since been cleared up and given
definite obligations and duties, and even in 1846 under
the law of the islands a guardian could not through the
instrumentality of an award of the Land Commission
obtain a title to the property of his ward which was immune from subsequent attack and the wrong of it be
without redress. The fact of guardianship being established, and such being its legal consequences under the
law of Hawaii, according to the latest decision of the Supreme Court of Hawaii, it would be going far to say that
a decision was intended to be made against it by the comment which we have mentioned, or by the other comments
in the opinion.
For instance, the present case was referred to as pending
.and it was said that as it had not passed to a final decree
there was nothing in the form of action of the court to
hinder the court from adopting the principle laid down,
even though it thereby should overrule an interlocutory
decision previously reached. And we may add that there
was nothing to hinder the court from changing its action,
which it did, we have seen, on a different view of the law,
or the complainant from availing itself of such change, unless indeed the first decision had the finality of resjudicata.
This is contended, it being urged that the decision of the
Land Commission had such binding effect as well on complainant as on Lewers & Cooke, Limited. The contention
is based on the following findings of fact:
"In the suit of Lewers & Cooke, Limited, referred to in

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

these findings, C. W. Ashford, then vice-president of
Kapiolani Estate, Limited, and now its counsel in this
case, appeared at the trial in the Court of Land Registration and assisted counsel for Lewers & Cooke, Limited,
in the conduct of the case by examining three witnesses,
and did this at the request of John F. Colburn, who was
the treasurer of Kapiolani Estate, Limited, and the officer
of Kapiolani Estate, Limited, who in the regular course
of business employed attorneys for it. Said John F.
Colburn was a witness on behalf of Lewers & Cooke,
Limited, at that trial.
"Messrs. Kinney, Marx, Prosser & Anderson, while attorneys for Kapiolani Estate, Limited, in this case, were
retained by Kapiolani Estate, Limited, through John F.
Colburn, its treasurer, to appear as counsel for Lewers &
Cooke, Limited, at two hearings before the Supreme Court
of Hawaii subsequent to the final decision, and so appeared, and also, on such retainer, signed the assignment
of errors upon appeal from the Supreme Court of Hawaii
by Lewers & Cooke, Limited, to the Supreme Court of the
United States. The Kapiolani Estate, Limited, was not,
however, named as a party to said suit of Lewers & Cooke,
Limited, and its counsel took no further part by its direction in the proceedings."
In passing on the contention the Supreme Court of
Hawaii said: "Counsel for appellants [appellees here] contend that under the decree in the Lewers & Cooke Case the
whole matter is resjudicata. But as the appellee [appellant
here] was not a party to that case and is not a privy of
Lewers & Cooke, Limited, the ground is untenable."
As to the last proposition, that is, that complainant was
not a privy of Lewers & Cooke, Limited, the view of
the court seems to be sustained by Wood v. Davis, 7
Cranch, 271, and Cadwallader v. Harris, 76 Illinois, 370.
The first proposition is one of fact. There was a distinct
issue upon the fact and the conclusion of the court was

KAPIOLANI ESTATE v. ATCHERLEY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

virtually a decision upon the issue that the acts described
were not authorized by the complainant corporation but
were individual. And we may say it is disputable besides
if they constituted an appearance of the complainant.
Schrweder v. Lohrman, 26 Minnesota, 87.
The principle invoked by defendants is that one who
warrants a title is concluded by a judgment against the
title in a suit brought against his grantee, even when the
title is aggressively used. Andrews v. Denison, 16 N. H.
469. But in favor of whom and under what conditions?
In favor of the grantee undoubtedly when he brings suit
on his covenant against his vendor. But will it be available in favor of the successful assailant of the title? Wood
v. Davis and Cadawalladerv. Harris,supra, are authority
against the proposition.
But, granting this is disputable, and cases may be cited
the other way, it is well established that in order to make
the judgment available even to the grantee of the title his
covenantor must receive notice of the suit and an opportunity to defend it. Such notice was not proven in this case.
We certainly cannot assume that notice was given against
the decision of the Supreme Court virtually to the contrary, accepting, indeed, the finding of the trial court. The
trial court, as we have seen, found that the allegations of
fact contained in complainant's bill of complaint, as finally
amended herein, and in its said replication, were true.
The replication contained a denial of the averment of the
supplemental answer that complainant had notice of the
proceedings in the Court.of Land Registration, the Supreme
Court of Hawaii or the Supreme Court of the United States,
though it admitted "that certain of its officers and directors in their capacity as individuals (but not in their capacity as such officers or directors of said complainant corporation) were aware of the pendency of said proceedings."
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordancewith this opinion.

