OCTOBER. TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Federal right. Those assignments, therefore, under
Jud. Code, ยง 237; Rev. Stat., ยง 709, will not be reviewed on
a writ of error to a state court. Seaboard Air Line v.
Duvall. See also Chicago Junction Ry. v. King, 222 U. S.
222 and Yazoo & Miss. R. R. v. Wright, 235 U. S. 376,
which state the rule where similar cases are brought here
by writ of error to a Federal court.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA
AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 517.

Argued December 9, 10, 1914.-Decided June 21, 1915.

A. railroad corporation engaged at the time of the passage of the
Hepburn Act in the business of mining, buying, transporting and
selling coal, in order to divest itself of title after the coal had been
mined and before transportation began, caused a coal company to be
incorporated having stockholders and officers in common with itself; thereupon the two corporations having a common management entered into a contract prepared by the railroad company
under which the railroad company did not go out of the mining and
selling business, but when the coal was brought to the surface it lost
title by'a sale to the coal company f. o. b. the mines and instantly
as carrier regained possession and retained it until delivery to the
coal company which subsequently paid the contract price; the
price paid was a fixed percentage of the priee at a stated terminal
on the day of delivery at the mines, and the railroad agreed to sell
all of the coal it produced or purchased from others to the coal company and the latter company agreed to buy only from the railroad
company and subject to the contract; the stockholders of the railroad company were allowed to take pro rata the stock of the coal
company and practically all availed of the option, and the coal company declared a dividend on each share of stock sufficient to pay for

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
238 U. S.

517

Syllabus.

the amount of stock allotted to the holder thereof. In a suit brought
by the Government alleging that the two corporations were practically one and that the contract was invalid, held that:
The Commodity Clause of the Hepburn Act was intended to
prevent railroads from occupying the dual and inconsistent position of public carrier and private shipper; and, in order to separate
the business of transportation from that of selling, the statute
made it unlawful for the carriers to transport in interstate commerce any coal in which the carrier had any interest, direct or
indirect.
It is not improper for a carrier engaged in mining coal to institute the organization of a coal company to buy or produce the
coal so as to comply with the terms of the Commodity Clause
and to give its stockholders an opportunity to subscribe to the
stock, but it must dissociate itself from the management of the
coal company as soon as the same starts business.
Mere stock ownership by a railroad company or by its stockholders in a producing company is not the test of illegality under
the Commolfy Clause but unity of management and bona ides
of the contract between the carrier and the producer.
The Commodity Clause and the Anti-trust Act are not concerned with the interest of the parties, but with the interest of
the public; and if a contract between a carrier and a producer isas a matter of law in restraint of trade, or if the producing company is practically the agent of the carrier, the transportation of
the article produced by the carrier is unlawful.
The contract in this case enables the railroad company to practically control the output, sales and price of coal and to dictate to
whom it should be sold and as such is illegal under both the Commodity Clause and the Anti-trust Act.
In order to comply with the Commodity Clause in regard to.
the transportation of coal a carrier engaged also in mining coal
must absolutely dissociate itself from the coal before the transportation begins, and if it sells at the mouth of the mine, the
buyer must be absolutely free to dispdse of it and have absolute
control, nor should a carrier sell to a corporation managed by the
same officers as itself-that is contrary to the policy of the Commodity Clause.
While there might be a bona fide and lawful contract between
a carrier mining coal and a buying company by which the latter buys all of the coal of the former, the contract to be not illegal must leave the buyer free to extend its business else-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

where as it pleases and to otherwise act in competition with the
carrier.
213 Fed. Rep. 240, reversed.

THE appellee was chartered not only as a Railroad
Company, but was authorized to mine and sell coal. The
Commodity Clause of the Hepburn Act of 1906 made it
unlawful for the carrier to haul its own coal beyond the
limits of the State of Pennsylvania, and desiring to continue the business of mining and transporting coal, the
Railroad adopted a plan under which it was to make a sale
and divest itself of title to the coal, at the mouth of the
mines, before transportation began. Accordingly it
caused to be incorporated, under the laws of New Jersey,
the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Coal Company
with a capital stock of $6,800,000,-divided into shares of
$50 each. The Railroad Company then invited its own
stockholders to subscribe to the capital stock of the Coal
Company at the rate of one share of the latter for each
four shares of the former. Ninety-nine per cent. of these
stockholders did, as was expected, subscribe for the stock
of the Coal Company-their subscriptions being paid for
in full out of a cash dividend of $13,600,000 previously
declared by the Railroad Company. The new corporation
was then organized by electing the Vice-President of the
Railroad Company as President of the Coal Company and
other officers and directors of the Coal Company were also
officers and directors of the Railroad Company.
As soon as the organization was completed, the Railroad
Company prepared and submitted to the Coal Company
a contract by which the Railroad Company reserving what
it needed for its railway locomotives 'agreed to sell and the
Coal Company agreed to buy, f. o. b. the mines, all coal
which, during the term of the contract, the Railroad
Company should produce from its own mines or purchase
from any one else.' The price for prepared sizes-the
more important commercial coal-was fixed at 65 per

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 519
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

cent. of the price in New York on the day of delivery at
the mines. The Railroad Company also leased to the
Coal Company all its trestles, docks and shipping facilities.
The contract-thus prepared by the Railroad Company-was then signed by both corporations and, on
August 2, 1909, the Coal Company took possession of the
leased property; those who had been Agents of the Railroad in its Sales Department became Agents of the Coal
Company in its Sales Department and the two corporations, with managing officers in common, also had offices
in common in the City of New York.
Thereafter the Railroad Company continued its mining
business, annually producing about 7,000,000 tons and
purchasing about 1,500,000 tons from operators whose
mines were located on its railway. After retaining what
was needed for use on its railway engines, it sold the balance, aggregating about 7,000,000 tons, to the Coal Company at the contract prices f. o. b. the mines. The coal
thus sold by the Railroad Company was then transported
by the Railroad Company to destination where it was
delivered to the Coal Company which paid the regular
tariff freight rate and the contract prices on the 20th of
each month. This course of dealing continued until
February, 1913, when the Government filed a Petition,
against both corporations, alleging that the two were
practically one and attacking the validity of the contract.
The Petition alleged that the coal business was extremely profitable and in order to continue it, in all its
branches, the Railroad Company (which was controlled
by a group of 25 persons, owning a majority of its stock),
had determined "to cause the organization of a new corporation to be under their own control-whose stockholders would be substantially the same as those of the
Railroad Company-and through it to conduct the business theretofore carried on by the Railroad Sales Department, thus securing, in effect, the continued unity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

mining, transporting and selling, in substance, as theretofore and depriving the public of the benefits which the
Commodity Clause was intended to produce."
The Petition alleged that when the contract was made,
in August, 1909, the stockholders of the two corporations
were practically identical; that a large majority of the
stock in both is still owned by the same persons and that
by virtue of the terms and provisions of the contract the
Railroad had such an interest in the coal as to make it
unlawful for it to transport such commodity in interstate
commerce.
It was further charged that the transportation of the
coal sold t9 the Coal Company was not only a violation of
the Commodity Clause, but that the contract tended to
create a monopoly and unlawfully to hinder and restrain
trade in coal in violation of the provisions of the AntiTrust Act. In this connection it was also charged that
the Railroad Company not only mined coal, but purchased
the product of other mines located along its railway, and
had acquired the output of other collieries on its line, giving to it the disposition of more than 90 per cent. of the
market, with power to arbitrarily fix prices. The Petition
averred:
"By reason of the arrangements described, the support
of the Railroad Company, and the peculiar advantages and
facilities acquired, the Coal Company at once secured and
has ever since maintained an unlawful monopoly of the
sale of coal produced along defendant's railroad, and has
completely dominated the markets at all points thereon
not reached by any other railroad. Its position, power,
and -support render effective competition with it practically impossible, and the monopoly which it now holds
will continue indefinitely unless restrained."
Both defendants answered. There was practically no
dispute as to the facts, though both corporations contended that the facts alleged and proved did not support

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 521
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the legal conclusions sought to be drawn therefrom by the
Government. Each insisted that the two corporations
were separate in law and in fact; contended that the
Railroad Company had no interest in the coal and insisted
that the Coal Company acted independently of the Railroad Company and was not subject to its control.
At the hearing there was evidence that at the date of
the making of the contract all except 2,249 shares in the
Coal Company were held by those who held stock in the
Railroad Company. By reason of sales of both stocks, it
appeared that in October, 1913, 88,116 shares of the
Railroad stock were held by those who were not then
interested in the Coal Company and 6,907 shares of stock
in the Coal Company were held by those who were not
owners of the Railroad stock.
There was also evidence that many of the officers of
the Coal Company were not officers of the Railroad
Company; that the management of the two corporations
was separate and distinct; that the Coal Company kept
its own books, deposited its funds in its name in banks
of its own choosing, and that the profits went solely
to its own stockholders. The Coal Company paid the
same rates of freight and demurrage as other shippers
and received no discriminating favors from the Railroad
Company. In 1910 the amount paid to the Railroad for
the purchase price of coal under the contract was about
$20,000,000, and for the freight thereon about $14,000,000.
Since the contract was made the Coal Company has
bought coal from other persons, the quantity being 3,847
tons in 1909; 2,267 tons in 1910; 6,600 tons in 1911;
92,004 tons in 1912; 310,645 tons in the first ten months
in 1913.
There are about 70,000,000 tons of .anthracite coal
produced annually of which 20,000,000 tons are sold at
tidewater. Of the 7,000,000 tons sold by the Delaware,
Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company about

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

2,000,000 tons are transported to tidewater points and
of this 500,000 tons are prepared sizes. The Coal Company at large expense bought land, built trestles and
storage facility at various points in addition to those
leased to it by the Railroad Company.
The District Court held that the business of the two
corporations had not been so commingled as to make
their affairs indistinguishable; that they are two distinct
and separate legal beings actually engaged in separate
and distinct operations and that the Railroad does not
own the coal, either in whole or in part, during its carriage
but has in good faith dissociated itself therefrom before
the beginning of the act of transportation.
In answer to the claim that 'the Railroad will be the
gainer from a high price at tide, since this will necessarily
increase the price at the mines and therefore that this
interest in the price is such an interest in the coal itself
as is condemned by the statute,' the court said: "Undoubtedly it is correct to say that the Railroad has an
interest in the price, but that 'interest' merely means
that the Railroad will gain by a higher price at tide and
does not mean that the Railroad has power to control
the coal or the price for which it sells." The alleged
power to increase the price by increasing the freight was
held to be ineffective because freight rates were controlled by the Commerce Commission. "The Railroad
Company does not. fix prices. It does not decide how
much coal is to go to New York Harbor, and it does
not determine the sum for which the coal is to be sold
at that point." 'The 65 per cent. basis had its origin
many years ago and affords a convenient basis for calculating the price to be paid for future deliveries.' . .
The Railroad retains nothing more after the title passes
to the Coal Company at the mines than an interest in
the price and this is not the same thing as an interest
in the coal. The Commodity Clause deals with an "in-

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 523
238 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

terest direct or indirect" in the commodities themselves
and this must mean some kind or degree of ownership
in the thing transported or some power to deal with it
or to control it. The Railroad Company neither owns
nor controls the coal after it has been loaded on the cars
at the breakers. Thereafter the Coal Company is the
owner and the master, and fixes prices, routes and destination at its own will.
The court further said that 'the bill of complaint makes
a formal charge against both defendants under the AntiTrust Act, but the oral argument left us under the impression that this-charge was not much insisted on. For
that reason the Anti-Trust Branch of the complaint was
regarded as comparatively unimportant, and for that
reason we shall not undertake what we think would be
the needless task of discussing the evidence bearing upon
the charge of restraining or monopolizing commerce.
If we are mistaken in this supposition the error can easily
be corrected.'
The Petition was thereupon dismissed without prejudice to the Government's right to begin a second proceeding whenever it may be so advised. 213 Fed. Rep.
240. The Government then brought the case here by
appeal.
In the Government's brief it is stated that while it
did not now ask for a ruling as to the right of the Railroad
Company to purchase and sell coal produced in mines
along its Railroad, it did ask that if the decree was affirmed it should be without prejudice to the right of the
United States to institute such proceedings.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd and Mr.
Solicitor General Davis for the United States:
The Railroad Company, whilst continuing to
transport in interstate commerce anthracite coal mined and
purchased by it, has not in good faith dissociated itself

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellees.

238 U. S.

therefrom before the transportation, and therefore is continuing to violate the Commodities Clause.
The contract of August 2, 1909, between- the Railroad Company and the Coal Company restrains interstate trade and commerce in violation of the Federal
Anti-Trust Act.
In support of these contentions, see Att'y GenTs Rep.
1912; Attorney General v. Gt. Nor. Ry. Co., 29 Law Jour.
(N. S. Eq.) 794; Del., Lack. & West. R. R. v. United States,
231 U. S. 363; New Haven R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
200 U. S. 361; Nor. Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S. 197; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v. Del. & Hud.
Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 215; S. C., 213 U. S. 266; United
States v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 220 U. S.257; United States
v. Union Pacific R. R., 226 U. S.61, and 470. See also
26 Stat. 20, c. 647; 32 Stat. 823, c. 544; 34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591; 36 Stat. 854, c. 428.
Mr. William S. Jenney for appellee Railroad Company
and Mr. John G.Johnson for appellee Coal Company:
The appellees do not maintain a monopoly in the
production or sale of coal as alleged in the petition.
The Railroad Company, by a sale of its coal under
the terms of the contract in issue to the Coal Company,
has in good faith dissociated itself from such coal before
transportation.
The contract in issue does not restrain interstate commerce.
In support of these contentions, see Att'y GenTs Rep.,
1909, p. 57; Id., 1912, p. 23; Ansbro v. United States, 159
U. S. 695; Del., Lack. & W. R. R. v. United States, 231
U. S.363; Paraisov. United States, 207 U. S.368; Rodriguez v. Vivoni, 201 U. S.371; Rogers v. Ritter, 12 Wall.
317; United States v. Am. Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224;

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
238 U. S.

525

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Cent. R. R. of N. J., 220 U. S. 275; United
States v. Del., Lack. & W. R. 'R., 213 Fed. Rep. 240;
United States v. Del. & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366; United
States v. Erie R. R., 220 U. S. 275; United States v. Lehigh
Valley R. R., 220 U. S. 257; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R., 220 U. S. 275; United States v. Reading Co.,
226 U. S. 324, and 228 U. S. 158.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Commodity Clause of the Hepburn Act was intended to prevent railroads from occupying the dual and
inconsistent positions of public carrier and private shipper;
and, in order to separate the business of transportation
from the business of selling, that statute made it unlawful
for railroads to transport in interstate commerce any coal
in which the company had "any interest, direct or indirect." 1 United States v. Delaware & Hudson, 213 U. S.
415; Delaware &c. R. R. v. United States, 231U. S. 363,
371.
As will be seen from the statement of facts, the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company was
at the time of the passage of the Hepburn Act of 1906,
one of the geat coal roads engaged in the fourfold business of mining, buying, transporting and selling coal.
As the Commodity Clause made it unlawful to transport
its own coal to market, the Railway Company decided to
adopt a plan by which to divest itself of title after it had
1 "From

and after May 1, 1908, it shall be unlawful for any railroad

company to transport" [in interstate commerce] 'any article. or commodity other than timber . . . manufactured, mined or produced
by it, or under its authority, or which it may own in whole, or in part,
or in which it may have any interest, direct or indirect, except such
articles or commodities as may be necessary and intended for its use
in the conduct of its business as a common carrier." 34 Stat. 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

been mined but before transportation began. It thereupon
caused a Coal Company to be incorporated having stockholders and officers in common with the Railroad Company. The two corporations, thus having a common
management, then made a contract-prepared by the
Railroad Company-under which the Railroad Company
did not go out of the mining and selling business, but when
the coal was brought to the surface the Railroad Company lost title by a sale to the Coal Company f. o. b. the
mines and instantly regained possession as carrier. It
retained that possession until delivery to the Coal Company, which subsequently paid therefor at the contract
price.
The District Court held that it was illegal for the same
person to own a majority of the stock in the two corporations and that their contract of sale was lawful.
From the decree, dismissing the Bill, the Government
apl ealed to this court where much of the argument was
directed to the question as to whether the fact that the
two corporations had practically the same shareholders
left the Railroad Company in a position where it could
lawfully transport coal which it had sold at the mouth of
the mine to the Coal Company.
1. But mere stock ownership by a Railroad, or by its
stockholders, in a producing Company cannot be used as
a test by which to determine the legality of the transportation of such Company's coal by the interstate carrier.
For, when the Commodity Clause was under discussion,
attention was called to the fact that there were a number
of the anthracite roads which at that time owned stock in
coal-companies. An amendment was then offered which,
if adopted, would have made it unlawful for any such Road
to transport coal belonging to such Company. The
amendment, however, was voted down; and, in the light
of that indication of Congressional intent, the Commodity
Clause was construed to mean that it was not necessarily

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 527
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

unlawful for a railroad company to transport coal belonging to a Corporation in which the Road held stock. United
States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 414. For a
stronger reason, it would not necessarily be illegal for
the Road to transport coal belonging to a Corporation
whose stock was held by those who owned the stock of the
Railroad Company.
Nevertheless, the Commodity Clause, of the Hepburn
Act of 1906, rendered unlawful many transactions which
prior to that time had been expressly authorized by the
statutes of the States which had chartered the Coal Roads.
And, while the Hepburn Act provided that, in the future,
interstate railroads should not occupy the dual position
of carrier and shipper, there was, of course, no intent on
the part of Congress to confiscate property or to destroy
the interest of the stockholders. But, still, upon adoption
of the Commodity Clause, this appellee Railroad was confronted with a difficult situation. To shut down the mines,
because the coal could not be transported, would have
meant not only a vast monetary loss to the Company and
its stockholders, but would have been even more harmful
to the interests of the public which required a constant
supply of fuel. The character of coal property was such
as to make it impossible to divide the same in kind among
the railroad stockholders, while the value of the coal land
was so great as to make it impracticable to find a purchaser
in ordinary course of trade. It was, therefore, natural, if
not necessary, to organize a corporation with which a
contract could be made, and out of cash received or stock
issued to pay for or preserve the equity which the railroad
shareholders had in the coal.
In this situation there may have been no impropriety
in the Railroad Company taking the preliminary steps
of organizing such a corporation. Neither was it illegal
for the stockholders of the Railroad Company to take
stock in the Coal Company, for there are many instances

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

in which the law recognizes that there may be diversity
of corporate interest even when there is an identity of corporate members. A city and the county, in which it is
located, may both have the same population but different
corporate interests. Many private corporations have
both stockholders and officers in common, yet they may
nevertheless make contracts which will bind both of
the separate entities. But whenever two such companies,
thus owned or managed, make contracts which affect
the interest of minority stockholders, or of third persons,
or of the public the fact of their unity of management
must be considered in testing the validity and bona fides
of the contracts under review.
2. That principle is to be slecially borne in mind in the
present -case. For this is not an instance of a Coal Road
and a Coal Company, both of which existed and had made
contracts prior to the Commodity Clause ;-but a case
where a Coal Company was created with the express purpose that, with stockholders in common, it should be a
party to a contract intended to enable the Railroad Company to meet the requirements of the Commodity Clause
and at the sane time continue the business of buying,
mining, selling and transporting coal.
It is also to be noted that the Delaware, Lackawanna
and Western Railroad Company did not part with title
to its coal lands, mines and mining machinery as seems to
have been done, on terms not fully.stated [United States
v. Delaware & Hudson, 213 U. S. 366, 398 (5), 392], in some
of the instances discussed in the Commodity Cases. In
them the ownership of the mines had passed completely
from the railroads to the producing companies and the
coal property was no longer subject to the debts of the
railroad companies. After such sale of the coal lands there
was both a technical and a practical separation of the legal
interest of the two corporations in the coal under the
ground, on the surface, when it was transported, and

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 529
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

when it was sold. The fact that the Railroad held stock
in the producing company, and received dividends thereon,
did not give to the Railroad Company, any more than to
any other stockholder in any other corporation, a legal
interest in the property of the Coal Company. Nor
would the fact that the Railroad Company had once
owned it, have made any difference, if,-by a normal and
bona fide sale at the point of production,-the carrier had
lost all power of control and all right, title and interest in
the coal before the transportation began. United States
v. Delaware & Hudson, 213 U. S. 413, top.
3. But the decisions construing the statute, recognize
that one corporation can be an agent for another corporation and that by means of stock ownership one of
such companies may be converted into a mere agent or
instrumentality of the other. United States v. Lehigh
Valley R. R., 220 U. S. 257, 273. And, this use of one by
the other-or this power of one over the other-does not
depend upon control by virtue of the fact that stock
therein is held by the Railroad Company or by its shareholders. For dominance of the Coal Company may be
secured by a carrier (New Haven R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
200 U. S. 363) not only by an express contract of agency,
but by any contract which in its practical operation gives
to the Railroad Company a control or an "interest, direct
or indirect" in the coal sold, at the mouth of the mines.
Assuming then that the incorporation and organization of the Coal Company under the auspices of the
Railroad Company was legal; assuming that the election
of railroad officers as the first managers of the Coal Company was not illegal; assuming that as officers of the
Railroad they could contract with themselves as officers
of the Coal Company; assuming that at the time of
organization it was not unlawful for the Railroad Company and the Coal Company, not only to have officers
but offices in common, and finally assuming that all these
VOL. ccxxxvii-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

facts together did not, in and of themselves, establish
an identity of corporate interest, still these facts taken
together are most significant. They at least prove that
the relation between the parties was so friendly that
they were not trading at arm's length. And the further
fact that one, of the parties was under a statutory disability as to hauling coal makes it necessary to carefully
scrutinize their arrangement in order to determine whether
it was a bona fide and lawful contract of sale, or a means
by which the Railroad though parting with the legal
title retained an interest and control in what had been
sold.
4. That contract is published in full in 213 Fed. Rep.
255-259. The provisions material in the present inquiry may be thus summarized:
(a) The Railroad Company agreed to sell and the
Coal Company agreed to buy all of the coal mined or
acquired by the Railroad Company during the continuance of the contract; (b) the price for the more important commercial grades was to be 65 per cent. of the
New York price on the day of delivery; (c) the amount
of coal to be sold and delivered was at the absolute option
of the Railroad Company as its interests might determine;
(d) the Coal Company was not to buy coal from any other
person or corporation without the written consent of
the Railroad Company; (e) the Coal Company was to
conduct the selling of the coal so as best to conserve the
interests, good-will and markets of the coal mined by
the Railroad Company; (f) the Coal Company was to
continue to fill the orders of present responsible customers
of the Railroad Company, even if some of such sales
might be unprofitable; (g) the Railroad leased to the
Coal Company all of its trestles, docks and shipping
facilities at a rental of 5 per cent. of their value; (h) the
contract could be terminated by either party on giving
six months' notice.

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 531
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The most cursory examination of the contract shows
that-while -it provides for the sale of coal before transportation begins-it is coupled with onerous and unusual
provisions which make it difficult to determine the exact
legal character of the agreement. If it amounted to a
Sales Agency the transportation was illegal because the
Railroad Company could not haul coal which it was to
sell. in its own name or through an agent. If the contract
was in restraint of trade it was void because in violation
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law. The validity of the
contract cannot be determined by consideration of the
single fact that it did provide for a sale. It must be
considered as a whole and in the light of the fact that
the sale at the mine, was but one link in the business of a
Railroad engaged in buying, mining, selling and transporting coal.
5. By virtue of the fact that the Railroad Company
bought, mined and sold, it-like any other dealer-was
interested in maintaining prices, since the contract did
not fix a definite sum to be paid for all of the coal sold,
but provided that the Railroad Company was to receive
65 per cent. of the New York price on the'day the coal
was loaded into the cars. The higher the rate in New
York the better for the seller. And, by the contract,
the Railroad reserved a power which, when exercised,
could not only curtail production but shipments. Thus
by decreasing the amount transported the supply in
New York could be lessened. This would tend to raise
New York prices and thus increase the sum the Railroad
was to receive.
The Railroad Company was in the business of selling,
and it is not to be presumed that its power to limit deliveries or to prevent the Coal Company from obtaining
coal elsewhere would be often exercised. Yet the power
did exist -and it was reserved for some purpose--not,
as argued, to prevent controversy as to failure to deliver

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

in cases of strikes or accidents, for such is not the language
or intent of the contract. Nor is room left for the implication [necessary to the validity of such an exclusive contract, Chicago &c. R. R. v. Pullman, 139 U. S. 80 (3),
89, 90], that the seller would deliver reasonable amounts
at reasonable times. All such defensive arguments are
excluded by the express and emphatic terms of the contract that "the amount of coal to be so delivered and sold
to the buyer by the seller shall be at tho absolute option
of the seller as its interests may determine, and the seller
shall be subject to no liability whatsoever for failure to supply the buyer with such amount of coal as it may desire."
It might be said that if such a power was exercised
the Coal Company could then go into the market and
purchase from other coal dealers. But this contract
deprives the buyer even of that ordinary business privilege, declaring that the Coal Company "will purchase
all coal to be sold by it from the seller, and will purchase no coal from any other person or corporation,
except with the written consent of the seller."
6. Reading these two clauses together, it is evident
that the Coal Company was neither an independent
buyer nor a free agent. It was to handle nothing except
the Railroad's coal and was the instrument through
which the Railroad sold all its product. The Coal Company, though incorporated to do a general coal business,
was dependent solely upon the Railroad for the amount
it could procure and sell and was absolutely excluded
from the right to purchase elsewhere without the consent
of the Railroad Company, which, however, was under
no corresponding obligation to supply any definite amount
at any definite date.
Restrictive contracts should at least be reciprocal and
mutual-for if A is bound to purchase only from B the
latter should certainly be bound to furnish what A wishes
to buy' [Chicago &c. R. R. v. Pullman, 139 U. S. 80

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 533'
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(3), 89, 901-especially is this true when the subject of
the contract is an article in which the public is interested.
Even at common law, in passing upon the validity of
contracts in restraint of trade, the "public welfare is
first considered, and if it be not involved, and, the restraint upon one party is not greater than protection
to the other party requires the contract may be sustained."
Gibbs v. Baltimore Consolidated Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396,
409; Fowle v. Park, 131 U. S. 97.
In this case the subject of the contract was anthracite
coal-an article of public necessity and of limited supply,
one-tenth being controlled by the appellee. The Railroad
Company might have justly insisted on contract provisions intended to secure payment for all that it produced.
But going beyond what was required for its own protection, it restrained the Coal Company from buying from
anyone else, and,-what is probably more significant in
this case-thereby prohibited the Coal Company from
competing with the Railroad Company for the purchasd
of coal mined on the Railroad lines. And, this was not
a mere perfunctory provision, because the Railroad
Company was a buyer of coal and purchased 1,500,000
tons per annum from mines on its system. By this contract it excluded from that market the Coal Company,
which, with its capital of $6,000,000, could have been a
strong competitor. Such a provision may not have
actually effected a monopoly. But considering the
financial strength of the carrier; its control of the means
of transportation; its powers to fix the time when transportation of the very coal sold was to begin; its power
in furnishing cars to favor those from whom it bought
or to whom it sold--such a contract would undoubtedly
have that tendency. In that respect it was opposed to
that policy of the law, which was the underlying reason
for the adoption of the Commodity Clause. New Haven
R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 373.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

7. There is another provision of the contract which
shows that the Railroad had such an interest in the coal
as enabled it to dictate to whom it should be sold, even
at unprofitable prices. The agreement provides:
"Sixth. The buyer agrees that it will conduct the
business of selling the coal of the seller in such manner
as best to conserve the interests of and preserve the good
will and markets of the coal mined by the seller, and to
continue to fill the orders of all responsible present customers of the seller even though as to some of such customers the sales may be unprofitable, it being understood
and agreed that at the prices above quoted the entire
business of the buyer will be conducted at a profit."
This is not a mere stipulation that the Coal Company
would not injure the reputation of the Railroad Company's coal; while the further provision that the Coal
Company would 'continue to fill the orders of all responsible present customers, even though some of such sales
might be unprofitable,' was a further indication of the
fact that both parties recognized the Railroad had an
interest in the coal' and used the Coal Company to preserve and secure that interest even after transportation
began.
The unusual, onerous and restrictive terms imposed
by this contract may, as between the pafties, have been
negligible-certainly so as long as the stockholders remained the same, since a loss to the Coal Company
would be presumably represented by a gain to the Railroad Company. But the Commodity Clause and the
Anti-Trust Act are not concerned with the interest of
the parties but with the interest of the public and it,
therefore, makes no difference whether this contract
dictated by the Railroad Company was for the permanent
advantage of the Coal Company.
8. It is argued, however, that the contract has not
operated to the injury of the parties or of the public.

UNITED STATES v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. 535
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And, in answer to those urged by the Government, it is
said that some of the objections now insisted on were
not pressed in the lower court; that there is no complaint
that the Railroad charged the Coal Company exorbitant
prices; or, that it ever raised the New York prices; or,
that it failed to make prompt deliveries; or, that it has
prevented the Coal Company from buying coal from
other operators; or, that the Railroad monopolized the
coal mined on its railway, or that it deprived such mining
companies of an open market. From this it is argued
that the present objections to the contract are purely
academic. But its validity depends upon its terms. And
if, as a matter of law, the contract is in restraint of trade,
or, if the Coal Company is practically the agent of the
Railroad Company then the transportation of the coal
by the latter is unlawful.
9. As already pointed out, the contract has in it elements of a sale and elements of a sales agency. It provides that the Railroad Company will sell and that the
Coal Company will buy all coal that is mined during
the continuance of the contract; but it prevents the Coal
Company from buying from any one else. It requires
it to sell to present railroad customers at the old price,
even though those prices may be unprofitable. The
seller is not bound to make deliveries of fixed quantities
at fixed dates and by decreasing what it will sell and
determining when it will ship it has a power in connection with its power as a carrier, which, if exerted, would
tend to increase prices in New York. Besides all this,
the contract prevents the Coal Company from competing
with the Railroad Company in the purchase of coal
along the railway line. Taking it as a whole and bearing
in mind the policy of the Commodity Clause to dissociate 'the Railroad Company fiom the transportation
of property in which it is interested and that the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act prohibits contracts in restraint of trade,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

there would seem to be no doubt that this agreement
violated both statutes.
10. The Railroad Company, if it continues in the
business of mining, must absolutely dissociate itself from
the coal-before the transportation begins. It cannot
retain the title nor can it sell through an Agent. It cannot call that Agent a buyer while so hampering and restricting such alleged buyer as to make him a puppet
subject to the control of the Railroad Company. If the
Railroad sells coal at the mouth of the mines to one buyer
or to many it must not only part with all interest direct
or indirect in the property but also with all control over
it or over those to whom the coal is sold at the mines.
It must leave the buyer as free as any other buyer who
pays for what he has bought. It should not sell to a
corporation with officers and offices in common,-for the
policy of the statute requires that instead of being managed by the same officers, they should studiously and
in good faith avoid anything, either in contract or conduct, that remotely savors of joint action, joint interest
or the dominance of one Company by the other. If the
seller wishes-by a lawful and bona fide contract, whose
provisions as to delivery and otherwise are not in restraint of trade-to sell all of its coal to one buying company, then that one buyer can be bound by reasonable
terms and required to pay according to the contract.
But such buyer should otherwise be absolutely free to
extend its business to buy when, where and from whom
it pleases, and otherwise to act as an independent
dealer in active competition with the Railroad Company.
What has been said is sufficient to show that the contract was invalid. -That makes it unnecessary to discuss
other questions raised but not disposed of by the District
Court, and the decision herein is without prejudice to
the right of the United States to institute proceedings

NEWMAN v. FRIZZELL.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

in reference thereto or to test the right of the Railroad
Company to purchase coal for sale.
The decree is reversed with directions to enter a decree
enjoining the Railroad from further transporting coal
sold under the provisions of the contract of August 2,
1909, referred to in the Petition.
Rieversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision of this case.

NEWMAN v. UNITED STATES EX REL. FRIZZELL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 813.

Argued April 13, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

In quo warranto proceedings brought in the name of the United States
on the relation of a citizen and taxpayer of the District of Columbia
for the purpose of ousting from the office of Civil Commissioner of
the District one appointed by the President and confirmed by the
Senate on the ground that he was not, as required by the Act of
June 11, 1878, c. 180, ยง 1, 20 Stat. 103, an actual resident of the
District of Columbia for three years next preceding his appointment, held that:
In early days usurpation of office was treated as a crime, and
could be prosecuted only as such and by duly authorized prosecuting officer and a private citizen could not prosecute such a
proceeding.
Subsequently after modification of the criminal features, the
writ of quo warranto came to be used as a means of determining
which of two claimants was entitled to an office.
Under the District Code of 1902 quo warranto is not limited to
proceedings against municipal officers, but extends to all persons
in the District exercising any office, civil or military; these provisions never having been judicially interpreted heretofore, this

