OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

the Western District of the Indian Territory, against
Louis and Peggie Woodward, for a partition of the same
land. This contention-equivalent to the plea of res
adjudicata-was rejected by the state court upon the
ground that the partition suit was brought in equity,
and was dismissed because the petition showed that the
land was held by the defendants adversely to plaintiff,
and because he could not maintain an action for partition
in equity without first establishing his title by an action
in ejectment. The decision was rested upon the authority
of numerous cases cited from the Supreme Court of Arkansas-the practice of that State having been put in
force in the Indian Territory by act of Congress. We
concur in the result, and need add nothing to the reasoning of the state court.
One or two other questions were argued, but they are not
within the assignments of error-indeed, were not raised
in the court whose judgment is under review.
Judgment affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MURPHY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 791.

Argued April 23, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

Although the shipper may be in control of the car and may be negligent
in regard thereto the carrier is not relieved of responsibility and so
held that:

An employ6 of the carrier, not guilty of contributory negligence
and not charged with notice of the carrier's rules in regard to ref rigerator cars may, under the circumstances of this case, be liable for
injuries caused by the doors of ice bunker being left open by the
shipper in control of the car although the employd knew that the
shipper was in such control.

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MURPHY.
238 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages recovered by an employ6 of a
carrier, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. H. Prendergastfor plaintiff:
Where a car loaded with bananas was in charge of a
custodian, and had been placed on a bulk track to be
unloaded then the shipping rules of the railroad which
permitted the custodian to open or close the ventilators
to the car, are valid and the railroad would not be liable
for an injury caused by the custodian having the ventilators open on top of the car. Densmore Commission Co. v.
Duluth R. R., 101 Wisconsin, 563; Gillett v. Railroad, 68
S. W. Rep. 61; Railroad Co. v. Alexander, 103 Texas, 597;
Schwartz v. Erie R. R., 106 S. W. Rep. 1188; Tuttle v.
Detroit&c.,R. R., 122 U. S. 189; Tex. Cent. R. R. v. Dorsey,
30 Tex. App. 381.:
The facts proven established the fact that defendant in
error did not get on the car to set the brakes nor to perform any duty he owed the railroad, because he had goDe
five or six feet beyond the brake staff before he fell, and the
special charges to that effect should have been given.
If the man in charge of the bananas left the opening
on top of the car uncovered, then the railroad company
would not be liable and the court erred in its charge to the
jury. Densmore v. Duluth R. R., 101 Wisconsin, 563;
Densmore v. Duluth R. R., 77 N. W. Rep. 904; Gillett v.
Railroad Co., 68 S. W. Rep. 61; Schwartz v. Erie R. R., 106
S. W. Rep. 1188; Tex. Cent. R. R. v. Dorsey, 30 Tex. App.
381.
Mr. S. P. Jones for defendant in error:
The duty of the master to provide for his servant a
reasonably safe place in which to work and reasonably safe
instrumentalities is an ever present, non-delegable duty
and when the same is delegated to another, he thereby
becomes the agent or representative of the master for
VOL. ccxxxvlIi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

whose negligence the master is responsible. Cooper v.
Robischung Bros., 155 S. W. Rep. 1050; Hough v. Railway
Co., 100 U. S. 213; Railway Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 386;
Railway Co. v. Conway, 98 S. W. Rep. 1070; Railway Co.
v. LaIgue, 27 C. C. A. 363; Railway Co. V. Winton, 66
S. W. Rep. 477; Railway Co. v. Milam, 58 S. W. Rep. 735;
Texas Traction Co. v. Morrow, 145 S. W. Rep. 1069;
Toled6 Brewing Co. v. Bosch, 41 C. C. A. 482.
The rules relied upon by the Railway Company axe not
rules governing the switchman's work, but are for the
railway agents at stations, conductors in charge of trains,
and the messengers or men in charge of the fruit.
If the Railway Company could relieve itself of liability
by delegating to the person in charge of the shipment the
duty of handling the car, under the rules it would not relieve the company of liability in this case, as the rule
providing for the opening of ventilators does not authorize
them to be left unprotected, making a pitfall in the path of
trainmen, but requires them to be protected by the cover
with the ratchet device furnished for that purpose.
The rules do not contemplate that the cover shall be
thrown back on the car roof and it is unusual and dangerous for them to be left in that position.
Switchmen have to move .fast in doing their work.
Defendant in error, a careful switchman, was at the place
where it was necessary for him to be.
In support of these contentions, see Baird v. Reilly,
35 C. C. A. 78; Cooper v. Robiachung, 154 S. W. Rep. 1052;
Grand Trunk Ry. v. Tennant, 14 C. C. A. 190; 3 Labatt
on Master and Servant, 1073; Railway v. Baugh, 149 U. S.
386; Railway Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 647; Railway Co.
v. Peterson, 162 U. S. 346.
MR. JUSTICE PiTrEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Murphy, while in the employ of the Railway Company
as a switchman in its yards at Marshall, Texas, fell from a

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MURPHY.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

refrigerator car and received personal injuries, for which he
recovered a judgment against the Company in the United
States District Court, which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, without opinion. According to plaintiff's theory, supported by evidence sufficient to sustain
the verdict, the car was standing upon one of the unloading
tracks,,but in such a position that it required to be occasionally moved in the course of switching operations. It
was partially loaded with bananas, and it had at one end an
ice bunker with an opening or scuttle in the roof of the car
through which the bunker was filled. The opening was
surrounded with a casing or coaming, rising somewhat
above the surface of the roof, and there was a hinged door
or cover fitted to the opening and furnished with a ratchet
device for raising it and setting it at any desired angle.
Plaintiff went upon the top of the car at night in the
course of his duties in order to test the brake and if necessary to set it, so that the refrigerator car could not run
down upon the main track. While walking upon the
roof of the car and making ready to descend, it being
dark, and the signal lantern that he carried furnishing
scanty light upon his path, he stepped upon the casing or
coaming of the ice bunker, his foot slipped or turned, and
he fell to the ground, receiving serious injuries. The
hatch cover, it appeared, was on this occasion left wide
open, instead of being set at an angle by means of the
ratchet, which, according to the evidence, was the proper
mode of arranging it'when it was desired to ventilate the
.ice bunker, and would have had tlie effect of preventing
plaintiff from stepping upon the coaming.
Plaintiff's contention was that the Railway 'Company
was negligent in leaving the door of the ice bunker wide
open. Defendant insisted that the car was in the charge
and control of one Marshall, who was selling bananas from
it, and that under the rules prescribed by. the company
for governing the transportation of bananas Marshall had

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

a right to have the doors of the ice bunker open or closed,
as he preferred. The trial court was requested to charge
that the rules of the company governing the transportation of bananas in refrigerator cars were reasonable and
binding upon the parties, and if the car in question was
handled in accordance with those rules, and if the messenger in charge of the car left the ventilators open, and this
caused the plaintiff to fall, he could not recover. This request was refused, and the court charged, on the contrary,
that the Railway Company could not escape liability for
injuring plaintiff by reason of Marshall's act in leaving the
bunker opening uncovered; that the mere fact that Marshall, or somebody acting for him, left it uncovered would
not be sufficient to defeat a recovery by the plaintiff;
but that the jury could take into consideration the fact
of Marshall's control of the car in determining whether
the defendant company, on the occasion in question, was
guilty of negligence directly or proximately contributing
to plaintiff's injury, and also in determining whether plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence in walking along
the car in the manner he did'at the time of his injury. We
think this was sufficiently favorable to defendant. So far
as appears, there was nothing to show that plaintiff had
notice of the company's rules respecting the care of perishable freight in refrigerator cars, or that they entered into
the contract of employment. Assuming he was charged
with notice of Marshall's control of the car and knew that
this must interfere to some extent with the Railway Company's care for plaintiff's safety, this was no more than a
circumstance in the case, and could not properly be treated
as conclusively showing a want of responsibility on the
part of defendant.
The other contentions of plaintiff in error are sufficiently
answered by referring to Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Rosborough, 235 U. S. 429, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

