OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Mrs. Chater was the chief object of the bounty. What
she was to receive, and when she was to receive it, were
stated in plain terms. Beyond this, we think there are
none of the implications that are deemed to arise in cases
of wills.
But the event that happened-her death before January 1, 1910-although evidently in contemplation as a
possible event, was not provided for. What then happens?
The trust has failed; the trustee is functus officio; he cannot in equity retain the fund for himself; he must simply
redeliver it to him from whom it came. In other words,
there is a resulting trust for the donor.
The entire matter is so fully and satisfactorily discussed in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Hawaii
that we need not further elaborate it.
Decree affirmed.

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 268.

Argued May 6, 7, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Nothing in the Federal Constitution gives any one the right to have
the jury instructed that he is entitled to damages for property taken,
where the instruction is not based on some evidence or entitles him
to damages without proof.

After an elevated railroad had been built in a street, the jury, in a suit
brought by an abutting owner, viewed the premises, and the only
testimony showed that the property was worth more after, than
before, the erection of the structure; held, that the owner was not
entitled to an instruction that the jury must exclude from their estimate of market value subsequent to the construction any enhancement from the facilities furnished to the property by the structure

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

itself, in the absence of any direct evidence as to whether any such
enhancement exists.
By simply viewing property after the erection of an elevated structure
in front of it, a jury cannot, in the absence of any evidence other
than that the property is worth more than before the structure was
built, ascertain what the market value was either before or just after
the erection of the structure.

258 Illinois, 133, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the right of an abutting property owner to recover damages for depreciation of his
property by reason of the erection of an elevated railroad in the street, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harry S. Mecartney and Mr. John S. Miller for
plaintiff in error.

Mr. Roger L. Foote, with whom Mr. Addison L. Gardner,
Mr. Randall W. Burne and Mr. Francis W. Walker were
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
By ordinary warranty deed from Calvin F. Rice, dated
November 13, 1889, Edwin L. Brand became owner in
fee simple of a lot, with five-story building (No. 259),
fronting east on Wabash Avenue, described as follows:
"The North Twenty-five (25) feet of Lot five (5) in Block
seven (7) in Fractional Section Fifteen (15) Addition to
Chicago." The record reveals no other facts concerning
any rights acquired by the grantee who held possession
until his death in 1900; and there is nothing to show how
or conditions under which the City obtained and holds the
street. Proceeding under a city ordinance the Union
Elevated Railroad Company and other defendants during
1896 and 1897 caused construction of a double-track

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

elevated railroad -along the center of Wabash Avenue
(100 feet wide); and since October 3, 1897, have operated
the same.
On October 2, 1902, plaintiffs-Brand's executorscommenced this common law action to recover a lump
sum for damage consequent upon construction, permanent
maintenance and operation of the railroad in front of the
above-described premises. After alleging such construction, method of operation, noise, dust, dirt, vibration and
other objectionable results the declaration concludes:
"All of which said disturbances and injuries and grievances
above complained of, have continued from and since, towit, said October 3, 1897, hitherto, and have caused and
are now causing and will henceforth continue to cause a
great and permanent damage and injury to said premises
and building and said rights and easements therein, and
by means thereof the said real estate has been greatly
reduced in market value, to-wit, in the sum of Twentyfive thousand dollars ($25,000).
"And the plaintiffs aver that said defendants became
and are bound to make full compensation to plaintiffs for
the said loss and damage under the Constitution and Laws
of the State of Illinois; but the said defendants, though
often requested, have not, nor has any or either of them,
paid said loss and dfamage or any part thereof, but hitherto
have wholly neglected and refused and still neglect and
refuse to do so, to the damage of said plaintiffs of Twentyfive thousand dollars ($25,000); wherefore they bring this.
suit."
Twelve years after the road was put into operation and
seven after institution of the cause it was brought on for
hearing-November, 1909-upon a plea of not guilty.
Before the premises were viewed or any evidence taken,
plaintiffs' counsel in -his opening statement outlining
facts and issues said: "They allege and claim that the
premises known as No. 259 Wabash Avenue, owned by

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED .R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Brand in his lifetime, and this cause of action surviving to them as executors of his estate; that that property has been damaged in its market value by the construction of the Elevated railroad structure in front of the
premises for public railroad uses. . . . The law as it
will be given to you, as we understand it, is that under the
Constitution of Illinois . . . private property shall
not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation, and we sue under that clause of the Constitution and upon the idea, and the basis, as we expect the law
to be given to you, that notwithstanding the City Ordinance allowed the construction of the road that that is no
bar to our recovery if damages have been in fact sustained.
Damages in the eye of the law is damage to the market
value of the property, usually arising from some interference with the private enjoyment or use of the property. . . . The theory is that this structure was built
for public uses by the companies organized under the
Railroad act of Illinois; . . . but it is a railroad in a
street and upon a structure which is violative of the ordinary rights of the abutter in the street, unless in some
way they can show some particular, special, immediate,
well-defined benefit to that property itself. . . . The
theory of the law is that so far as public works are concerned, if a damage is created to the property the property
owner recovers in one lump sum for the damage, past,
present and future. . . . Now we expect the evidence-and your view of the premises will be, as we think,
the most important thing in the case-the actual, physical
structure and its mode of operation and the noise and
racket and pandemonium, as we would call it, that the
road makes in front of the premises; the more or less obstruction to light and other inconvenience-some inconvenience of access and egress for wagons, and all that, all
affecting the use of the pruperty, and as we think, that
will appear to you to be self-evident and the damage

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

prima facie established; and then it will be for the opposition, if they can in any way show to you that there are
any particular special benefits to this property apart from
property generally and apart from the general travel
convenience which this property had a right to after the
road was established."
Without objection, the jury viewed the premises;
Brand's title was established by deed from Rice and right
of plaintiffs to sue by their'letters, etc.; copy of ordinance
granting authority for construction of the railroad was
put in evidence, and also street sketch showing outline
and location of rails, supports, etc. Plaintiffs introduced
a single witness, engaged in the real estate business, who
had been agent for the property and collector of the rents
since prior to the road's construction. He testified concerning the locality, the property, character of improvements, building of the road in 1896-7, operation, noise,
dirt, obstruction to light, etc., resulting therefrom and the
effect, the rents received, market conditions of lands in
Chicago, the advance therein about 1898, etc. He declared the property's market value was $4800 per front
foot before and for three years after the construction, and
somewhat later increased to $6500. They also endeavored
to prove by him values on Michigan Avenue to the east
and on State Street to the west, but this was declared
inadmissible. On defendants' motion the court directed
a verdict of not guilty, stating the following reasons
therefor.: "Now I agree fully with your [counsel for plaintiffs] contention that the measure of damages is the
difference in the value of the property in question with
the structure and that without the structure. But how is
that measured? What is the basis of measure of those
damages? Why, it is the price before the construction
and the price immediately afterwards. That is the readiest and most available test of determining whether or not
there was damage. If there was testimony here that

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without the structure it would be worth so much and
with the construction it would be worth so much less,
that would be another question from that which is pre3ented here. Your claim is not for depreciation of the
value of the land by reason of the structure but because
uhe structure has prevented its appreciation. It is not for
deterioration of value but because the value has not advanced. Although the value has not advanced, it has
not been proven by the evidence and there is no evidence
tending to prove it did not advance by reason of the
erection of this structure. Non constat that the structure
was erected, there may have been many reasons that the
value of the property did not advance and the only affirmative evidence in the case is that immediately before the
erection of the structure, the price was so much and that
for a period of some years afterwards, the price was so
much. There is no evidence of depreciation at all. There
is no evidence of right of appreciation which depended
upon the erection of the structure and therefore I think
you have not made out a case."
The judgment of the trial court was affirmed by both
the Appellate Court (169 Ill. App. 449) and Supreme Court
of Illinois (258 Illinois, 133). The latter in the course
of its opinion said (p. 134): "Numerous errors were assigned in the Appellate Court, but counsel for appellants
stated in his brief that all of them were withdrawn except
those raising the question of the correct rule for assessing
damages to property not taken but affected by a public
use, and this is the only question discussed in the briefs
in this court. . . ., [p. 135] The undisputed evidence, therefore, was that the market value of appellants'
property was not depreciated by the construction of
the road. It is claimed, however, that this was the result of general benefits common to all property in the
neighborhood served by the improvement, and that such
benefits should not be considered in determining the dam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

ages; that only special benefits, such as are a direct physical improvement to the property, like the draining of
a wet, swampy tract of land by the improvement, or
building a bridge across a stream running through the
land, which enables the owner to enjoy it with greater
advantage by reason of the improvement, should be
considered in determining whether the property is damaged. Appellants contend that the benefits to their
property by reason of the improvement which operated
to prevent a decrease in its market value were general
benefits; that there were no special benefits, but, on the
contrary, the improvement injuriously affected the use
of appellants' property by obstructing air and light, by
noise and vibration, and by interference with access to
their property, and they insist they are entitled to recover
the damage thus resulting without any reference to the
other benefits that may have resulted from the improvement. This question is not a new one in this State.
Since the adoption of our present constitution [1870]
and the passage of the Eminent Domain act [1872] the
question has been passed upon by this court a great
many times. . . . In all three of these cases it was
held the true measure of compensation for land not taken
by the improvement was the difference between what
the property would have sold for unaffected by the improvement, and what it would sell for as affected by
it. . . . [p. 136] The rule announced in those cases
has, with one exception, been followed in subsequent
cases, down to Metropolitan West Side Elevated Railway
'Company v. Stickney [1894], 150 Illinois, 362, .
[in which] "the court reviews all its previous decisions
since the adoption of the constitution of 1870 and sums
up its conclusions in the following language: 'It therefore
follows that every element arising from the construction
and operation of the railroad or other public improvement which in an appreciable degree, capable of ascer-

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tainment in dollars and cents, enters into the diminution or increase of the value of the particular property,
is proper to be taken into consideration in determining whether there has been damage, and the extent of
it.'

.

.

.

[p. 137]

Appellants insist this decision

and others in line with it are wrong; that the rule adopted
in this State is contrary to the weight of authority in
other States; . . . also, that the rule is in conflict
with Keithsburg and Eastern Railroad Company v. Henry,

79 Illinois, 290, and ยง9 of the Eminent Domain act.
It is quite true, the decisions in this State upon the question here under consideration are not in harmony with
decisions of courts of last resort in some of our sister
States, while they are in harmony with the decisions in
some States. The conflict between the decisions in this
State and the decisions of other States relied upofi by
appellants is not so much as to a rule of law as it is to
the application of the rule. This court is in accord with
the cases in other States holding that only special benefits are to be considered in making just compensation
for land damaged by but not taken for a public use.
The difference is principally as to what are general benefits and what are special benefits. Some courts hold
that only those benefits are special which directly and
physically operate upon the particular property in a
manner different from and not shared in common by
other property in the neighborhood and which enable
the owner to use it with greater advantage. All other
benefits which increase the market value of the particular property in common with other property in the neighborhood are held to be general benefits. This view has
not been adopted- in this State.

.

.

.

[p. 139]

The

only case in this State that is out of line with the Stickney Case and those previously and subsequently decided
is Keithsburg and Eastern Railroad Company v. Henry,

supra, and that case has not been followed in any subVOL. ccxxxviii-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

sequent decision. . . . [p. 141] We are not disposed now to enter upon a discussion of the correctness
of the rule adhered to for forty years, nor do we feel at
liberty, even if we were so inclined, to overrule the large
number of decisions that would have to be overruled
to justify a reversal of this judgment. The judgment
is in harmony with the law in this State, and is therefore affirmed."
The Illinois constitution of 1870 provides-" Private
property shall not be taken or damaged for public use
without just compensation. Such compensation, when
not made by the State, shall be ascertained by a jury,
as shall be prescribed by law." The Eminent Domain
Act of 1872, chap. 47, Rev. Stat. Ills. 1912, pp. 1099,
1101, provides-(Sec. 1) "That private property shall
not be taken or damaged for public use without just
compensation; and that in all cases in which compensation is not made by the State in its corporate capacity,
such compensation shall be ascertained by a jury, as
hereinafter prescribed." (Sec. 9) "Said jury shall .
go upon the land sought to be taken or damaged, .
and after hearing the proof offered make their report
in writing, . . . so as to clearly set forth and show
the compensation ascertained to each person thereto
entitled; Provided, that no benefits or advantages which
may accrue to lands or property affected shall be set off
against or deducted from such compensation in any case."'
Counsel delimit plaintiffs' present position thus:"Appellants withdraw all and every their assignments
of error or parts thereof as will leave open upon this
record this one question, and will save all their legal and
constitutional rights claimed in respect thereto, viz:
Assuming that the evidence adduced on the trial and
shown in this record tended inevitably and only to show
that the property in question was worth as much after
the railroad in question had been constructed as before

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it was constructed, or as much with the railroad con-

structed as without it, that the cause should still have
gone to the jury. Or, differently worded: That in considering the effect upon the premises in question from
the railroad structure in question, the jury must exclude
from consideration the enhancement in value of the
property in question, if any, resulting from the facilities
furnished by the improvement."
The suit is for loss in market value consequent upon
erection and operation of the elevated road and is now
prosecuted upon the theory that the trial judge erred
in not submitting questions of damage to the jury under
positive instruction to exclude from market value subsequent to the construction such enhancement, if any,
as resulted from facilities furnished by the improvement
itself. It was, of course, necessary for the court to determine whether there was any evidence upon which such
loss could be found. By merely viewing the property
in 1909 the jury could not ascertain its market value
either before or just after the road was built, and the only
'testimony relating thereto showed no change occurred.
Neither could the jury tell without evidence what enhancement, if auy, resulted from the improvement, and
the record discloses none. In the circumstances we think
the refusal to give positive direction to exclude from
consideration something impossible of ascertainment
was clearly right.
What we have said disposes of the essential point
presented by the record, and it is unnecessary to consider the broad questions discussed in argument. It
may not be contended upon any theory of compensation
that the Constitution of the United States gave plain-'
tiffs the right to an instruction not based on some evidence or to damages without proof. The judgment of
the court below is
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY, J., dissenting.

238 U. S.

MR. JUsTIC DAY, dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the opinion of the court in this
case. I think its importance justifies a brief statement of
the grounds upon which my dissent rests.
In this case there was testimony tending to show that
the plaintiffs' property suffered a real and substantial damage by the erection and maintenance of the elevated railroad, and that their property right of ingress and egress was
peculiarly and particularly injured by the railroad structure. Such damage was equivalent to a taking of property
for a public use and required just compensation to be
made for the injury sustained. Washington Ice Co. v.
Chicago, 147 Illinois, 327. There is no question of the real
and substantial special injury to the plaintiffs' property,
shown by the testimony, and undoubtedly developed by
the view of the premises which the jury had under the
direction of the court. In this attitude of the case, the
jury was instructed that the plaintiff could not recover;
the court proceeding upon the theory that there was no
testimony tending tb show that plaintiffs' property would
not sell for as much after the construction of the road as
before. The necessary effect of this instruction permitted
the jury to consider appreciation in value arising from
the general advantage of the structure, not only to the
plaintiff, but to others of the public, similarly situated.
In the Supreme Court of Illinois this instruction was
sustained upon the theory that the damages to the property might be offset by benefits to the owner although
such benefits were shared by all 'others similarly situated.
This court has more than once held that to take private
property for public use without adequate compensation
is a deprivation of due process of law within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED R. R.
238 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

U. S. 557, 565. It has also held that just compensatiou,
in the constitutional sense, excludes taking into account
the supposed benefits that the owner may receive in common with the public from the use to which his property
is appropriated. Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United State8,
148 U. S. 312, 326.
Nor is it any answer to say that the proceedings in this
case are in accordance with the laws of the State, in a proceeding in which the plaintiffs were allowed to appear and
be heard, according to the rules of the local jurisdiction.
This contention was made and met by this court in Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, and this
court has uniformly held that if the effect of the State's
judgment was to permit the taking of property without
due process of law, the form by which that result is accomplished is of no moment, and the mere form of the proceeding, even if accompanied by full opportunity to be
heard, does not convert such process into due process of
law, if the necessary result has been to deprive complainant of his property without just compensation. Chicago,
B. & Q. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S., p. 236, and the cases
therein cited; Fayerweather v. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276, 297.
If the effect of the judgment of the state court has been
to take the property of the citizen without compensation,
no matter what form the procedure has taken, it is
violative of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. If this were not so, the State, by adopting
forms of procedure and enforcing laws which operated
to take private property without compensation, could
deny the citizen the protection which the Fourteenth
Amendment was intended to give against all forms of
state action.
If the jury were permitted to pay the plaintiffs for their
special damage in general benefits enjoyed by the public
as well as the plaintiffs, the result is inevitable that the
plaintiffs' property was taken without compensation. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
DAY, J., dissenting.

238 U. S.

my view, the rule was correctly summarized by Justice
Cartwright in his dissenting opinion in this case. In my
opinion, he tersely and correctly stated the case in the
following words:
"In this case damage was claimed to property by the
occupation of a public street with an elevated railroad.
There were two classes of rights in the street; the one, the
public right to use the street for travel and for that only;
the other, the right of the property owner of ingress and
egress, use in connection with his property and the appurtenant easements. If there was an obstruction to the
public use for travel by the iron pillars, there could be no
recovery by the owner for consequent damage, but if his
right of access was impeded or interfered with or his
property rendered less valuable on account of noise,
vibration or other natural consequence of the construction
and maintenance of the road, the damage -resulting was
special, to that property. The thing would be a nuisance
if there were no authority of law for its construction and
operation, and whenever an act is done which without
statutory authority would be a nuisance, the owner of
property affected by it sustains a special and peculiar
damage different from that sustained by the public in
general and may have his action for damages resulting
from his individual and distinct right. (Rigney v. City of
Chicago, 102 Illinois, 64.) In this case there was a direct
physical disturbance of a right enjoyed in connection with
the ownership of property, and if there was any damage
by reason of the disturbance of the right it was special.
Against any such damage general benefits to the public,
although enhancing the value of the property in question
in common with other property in the vicinity could not
be considered. To say that the only test is the market
value of the property before and after the improvement,
regardless of the causes affecting the value, necessarily
charges the owner with benefits which this court has re-

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY. v. LESLIE. -99
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

peatedly held could not be done, and makes the owner
contribute to a liquidation of special injuries his share of
the general benefits derived from the construction and
operation of the road."
As the effect of the judgment below was to permit the
plaintiffs to be paid for valuable property rights in general
benefits, in my opinion it necessarily follows that plaintiffs'
property was taken without due process of law, and therefore in violation of the protection afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

and MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY concur in this dissent.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. LESLIE, ADMINISTRATOR OF OLD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 538.

Argued April 22, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Under the Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 and ยง 28,.
Judicial Code, a cause brought in a state court of competent jurisdiction under the Employers' Liability Act cannot be removed to a
Federal court upon the sole ground of diversity of citizenship.
Under the Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 there can be a
recovery for pecuniary loss to the widow and children of decedent
and also for conscious pain and suffering endured by decedent in the
period, even though brief,-in this case about two hours-between

injury and death. St. Louis, Iron Mtn. & Southern Ry. v. Craft,
237 U. S. 648.
Even though the declaration may set up distinct and independent
liabilities springing from one wrong-as for the suffering endured
before death and the death itself-in an action under the Employers'
Liability Act, in the state court the jury need not, if it is in accord

