OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

sated by -allowance of attorney's fees; on the cqntrar, the
Act, while recognizing the existence of such burdeh, alows
compensation for it in favor of one class of litigants, but
does not allow like compensation to the other class when
subjected to the like burden. This, in our opinion, is a
denial of the equal protection of the lawA guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ROSSI v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT. OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 193. Argued March 11, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
A State may not punish one who sells and delivers liquor in original
packages within the State pursuant to orders solicited within the
State but delivered from without the State, under the circumstances
of this case which arose prior to the Webb-Kenyon Law.
The transportation of intoxicating liquor, as of other merchandise, from
State to State is interstate commerce and cannot be interfered with
by the States except as permitted by Congress.
The Wilson Act of 1890, while placing liquor on arrival at destination
under the law of the State, does not subject liquor transported in
interstate commerce to state regulation until after arrival at destination and delivery to the consignee or purchaser.
Under the Wilson Act the power of the State does not extend to a shipment of liquor prior to delivery to the purchaser because it was
transmitted in pursuance of an order previously obtained within the
State, where, as in Pennsylvania, there is no statute prohibiting
the solicitation and taking of such orders for liquor without a license.
Dekamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93, distinguished.
53 Pa. Sup. Ct. 210, reversed.

ROSSI v. PENNSYLVANIA.
238 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a conviction
for selling liquor without a state license, and the construction of the Wilson Act of 1890, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. H. C. McClintock for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas W. Dickey, with whom Mr. Clyde V.
Ailey was on the brief, for defendant in error:
Section 15 of the Statute of Pennsylvania, commonly
called the Brooks Law, applies as the sale took place in
Pennsylvania.
The sale must be made in the county where the defendant holds a license and in the regular course of business.
The plaintiff in error had no license to sell liquors in
Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, and the orders were not
taken in the regular course of business.
The contract was made in Lawrence County, they were
to be there executed, and the goods were delivered, as by
contract required, in Lawrence County, PennsylvaniaThese facts stamp the transactions as sales in the County
of Lawrence, State of Pennsylvania. Commonwealth v.
Holstine, 132 Pa. St. 357; Commonwealth v. Guinzburg, 46
Pa. Sup. Ct. 488; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Sims, 191
U. S. 441.
The Brooks Act was enacted in the exercise of the
police powers of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
The sales made by the plaintiff in error were not exempt
from the police. power of the State of Pennsylvania, because of the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States, and notwithstanding the provisions of the
Wilson Act. The Wilson Act does not prevent, but assists
the State of Pennsylvania in exercising its rights under
the police powers of the State. Phillipsv. Mobile, 208 U. S.
478; Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438, 446;

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Reymann Brew. Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S. 445; Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17, 25; Delamater v. South
Dakota, 205 U. S. 93; Commonwealth v. Zelt, 138 Pa. St.
627.
If plaintiff in error be correct, a person may take out a
license on. or near the Ohio state line, go into any part of
the State of Pennsylvania, take verbal orders for any
amount of liquors and deliver the same, by person or by
wagon or by his agent, collect the purchase price in the
State of Pennsylvania, thus making sales in Pennsylvania
without any of the police powers of the State being able
to regulate, restrain or prohibit him from so doing. This
clearly is beyond the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
While Congress has the power to regulate commerce
the States may validly affect commerce in the exercise of
their inherent and inalienable police.power and under the
taxing power. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. 5. 135; Bowman v.
Chicago & N. W. R. R., 125 U. S. 465; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Commonwealth v. Paul, 170 Pa. St.
284; P lumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461.
The Wilson Act gives the right to the State of Pennsylvania to exercise its police powers on intoxicating liquors
transported into the State, remaining therein for use,
consumption, sale or storage therein and upon the arrival
of such liquor in this State.
Soliciting is a part of the sale. Lang v. Lynch, 38 lFed.
Rep. 489; Brown v. Wieland, 116 Iowa, 711; Delama~r v.
South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error was convicted in the Court .of Quarter
Sessions of Lawrence County, in the State of Pennsylvania,
of the crime of selling intoxicating liquors in that county
without a license, contrary to ยง 15 of an act of May 13,

ROSSI v. PENNSYLVANIA.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1887 (P. L. p. 113), which declares: "Any person who
shall hereafter be convicted of selling or offering for sale
any vinous, spirituous, malt or brewed liquors, or any
admixture thereof, without a license, shall be sentenced,"
etc. The Superior Court affirmed the conviction (53 Pa.
Sup. Ct. 210), the Supreme Court of the State refused an
appeal, and this writ of error was allowed.
The facts are these: Plaintiff in error is a liquor dealer
h~ving his place of business in the County of Mahoning,
in the State of Ohio, which immediately adjoins Lawrence
County, Pennsylvania. He had no license to sell in
Lawrence County, nor any place of business there, but'
went into that county and there took an order for liquor,
with the understanding that the liquor should be thereafter delivered from his stock in Ohio to the residence of
the purchaser in Pennsylvania. He returned to Ohio,
there loaded the goods upon his own wagon, and either
by himself or his employ6 drove across the state line and
delivered the liquor to the residence of the purchaser
pursuant to the contract. Thus the sale was negotiated
in Pennsylvania, but contemplated and required for its
fulfillment a transaction in interstate commerce, which
afterwards took place, with resulting delivery in Pennsylvania.
The charge, as will be observed, was selling, not offering
for sale. And it is admitted that by the Pennsylvania
decisions the act of taking orders for future delivery is not
punishable under the statute cited, or any other, and that
it is not the making of an executory contract but the
executed sale that is punishable. Commonwealth v. Smith,
16 Pa. Co. Ct. 644, 646, 647; Star Brewing Company's
License, 43 Pa. Sup. Ct. 577, 580; Commonwealth v.
Guinzburg, 46 Pa. Sup. Ct. 488, 497; and see Garbrachtv.
Commonwealth, 96 Pa. St. 449, 453. And so, in the present
case, the Superior Court (53 Pa. Sup.. Ct. 220) recognized
that it was not the making of the executory contract, but
v0L. CcxxxvIII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the execution of it, that involved a violation of the law of
the State.
The Federal question presented is whether, under the
act of Congress approved August 8, 1890 (c. 728, 26 Stat.
313), known as the Wilson Act, the State of Pennsylvania
may punish plaintiff in error for delivering in that State
liquors transported in interstate commerce, under the
circumstances stated. The case arose before the passage
of the act of March 1, 1913 (c. 90, 37 Stat. 699), known
as the Webb-Kenyon Act, and the effect of this legislation
is therefore not now involved.
As has been recently pointed out in Kirmeyer v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 568, 572, the transportation of intoxicating
liquor, as of other merchandise, from State to State, is
interstate commerce, and state legislation which penalizes
it or directly interferes with it, otherwise than as permitted
by an act of Congress, is in conflict with the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution; and while Congress,
in the Wilson Act, declared in substance that liquors transported into any State or remaining therein for use, consumption, etc., shall upon arrival in such State be subject
to the operation and effect of its laws enacted in the exercise of the police power, to the same extent and in the
same manner as though the liquors had been produced
in such State, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason
of being introduced in original packages, this does not
subject liquors transported in interstate commerce to
state regulation until after' their arrival at destination
and delivery to consignee or purchaser. Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, 110; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 423;
American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, 142, 143;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S.70,82.
The Pennsylvania Superior Court deemed that the
present case was controlled by Delamater v. South Dakota,
205 U. S. 93, where a statute imposing an annual license
charge upon the business of selling or offering for sale

CHICAGO & ALTON R. R. v. TRANBARGER.
238 U. S.

67

Syllabus.

intoxicating liquors within the State by traveling salesmen
soliciting orders was held to be enforceable in view of the
Wilson Act, even as applied to the business of soliciting,
within the borders of the State, proposals for the purchase
of liquors which were to be consummated by the delivery
within the State of liquors to be brought from without.
That case, however, has no present pertinency, since the
prohibition of the Pennsylvania statute is not addressed
to the business of soliciting contracts for the purchase of
liquor, but to the sale of the liquor itself; and by the terms
of the Wilson Act, as previously construed, the control
of this subject by the several States is postponed until
after the delivery of the liquor within the State.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

TRANBARGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 214.

Argued March 19, 1915.-Decided June 1, .1915.

In an action for damagesunder the statute of Missouri requiring owners
of railroads to maintain ditches along the right-of-way as amended in
1907 so as to -equire outlets for water across the rights-of-way and
imposing liability and penalties for non-complianbe within three
months after completion and where the embankment causing damage had been erected more than three months prior to the amendment of 1907, held that:
The amendment to the statute was not an ex post facto law: it did not
penalize the. railroad company for the manner in which it originally
built the embankment prior to the amendment but for the manner
in which it maintained it subsequently thereto.
The time limit should properly be construed as relating to railroads

