OCTOBER TERM. 1972
Syllabus

412 U. S.

GOLDSTEIN ET AL; V. CALIFORNIA
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE DEPARTMENT, SUPERIOR
COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

No. 71-1192. Argued December 13, 1972-Decided June 18, 1973
Petitioners, convicted for committing acts of "record piracy" or "tape
piracy" in 1970-41971, challenge the California statute proscribing
such practices, as violative of the "Copyright Clause," Art. I, § 8,
cl. 8, of the Constitution, and the federal statutes .enacted thereunder. The state appellate court upheld the validity of the statute.
Held:
1. Article I, § 8, c. 8, does not expressly or by inference vest
all power to grant copyright protection exclusively in the Federal
Government. Pp. 552-561.
(a) Although the objective of the Copyright Clause was to
facilitate the granting of rights national in scope, it does not indicate that all "Writings" are of national interest or that protective
state legislation is, in all cases, unnecessary or precluded. Pp.
555-558.
(b) No substantially prejudicial interstate conflicts result
where some States grant copyright protection withia their own
jurisdictions while other- States do not: Pp. 558-55S.
(c) Conflicts will not necessarily arise between state enactments and congressional policy when States grant copyright
protection. P. 559.
(d) Unless Congress determines that the national interest
requires federal protection or freedom from restraint as to a
particular category of "Writings," state protection of that category
is not precluded. P. 559.
(e) The durational limitation imposed by the Copyright
Clause on Congress does not invalidate state laws, like the one
here, that have no such limitation. Pp. 560-561.
2. The California statute does not violate the Supremacy Clause
by conflicting with federal copyright law. Pp. 561-570.
(a) Congress did not, in passing the Copyright Act of 1909,
determine that recordings, as original writings, were unworthy of
all copyright protection. Pp. 563-566.
(b) Nor did Congress in 17 U. S.. C. § 4, which provides that
"the works for which copyrights may' be secured under this Act
shall include all writings of an author," or in § 5, pre-empt state
control over -1 works to which the term '"writings" might apply.

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Syllabus

Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376 U. S. 225; Compco Corp.
v. Day-Brite Lighting, 376 U. S. 234, distinguished. Pp. 567-569.
3. Although in 1971, the federal copyright statutes were amended
to allow federal protection of recordings, such statutory protection
was not intended to alter the legal relationships governing recordings "fixed" prior to February 15, 1972. Until and unless Congress takes further action with respect to recordings fixed prior to
February 15, 1972, California remains free to proscribe acts of
record or tape piracy such as those involved here. Pp. 570-571.
Affirmed.
BunRER, C. J., delivered the 6pinion of the Court, in which Saxw-

iArr, Wnrms, PowLL, and REHNQUIsT, JJ., joined. DoUGrs, J.,
post, p. 572, and IAaisHALL, J., post, p. 576, filed dissenting dphiions,
in which BRENw
and Bucx!ug, JJ., joined.

Arthur Leeds argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioners.
David M. . Scacter argued the cause for respondent.

With him on the briefs was Roger Arnebergh.*
*Francis M. Pinckney filed a brief for Custom Recording Co.,
Inc., et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
Briefs of amidi curiae urging affirmance were filed by Evelle J.
Younger, Attorney General, Edward A. Jlinz, Jr., Chief Assistant
Attorney General, William E. James and Doris H. Maer, Assistant
Attorneys General, and Charles P. Just, Deputy Attorney General,
for the State of California; by Robert L. Shevin, Attorney General,
pro se, and William J. Dunaj, Special Assistant Attorney General,
for the Attorney General of Florida; by Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney
General, pro, se, Samuel" A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney
General, and Daniel M. Cohen, Assistant Attorney General, for
the Attorney General of New York; by J. Shane Creamer, Attorney
Geneial, foi the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; by David M.
,Pack, Attorney General of Tennessee; by Crawford C. Martin,
Attorney General, pro se, and Charles F: Herring for the Attorney
General of Texas; by Sidney A. Diamond and Ernest S. Meyers for
Recording Indu.trr Association .of America, Inc.; by Paul G.
Zurkowski for Information Industry Association; by Henry Kaiser,
Eugene Gressman, Ronald Rosenberg,, and Mortimer Becker for
American Federation of Musicians et al.; and by Julian T. Abeles
and Robert d. Osterberg for Harry Fox Agency, Inc.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

MR.CHImF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We granted certiorari to'review petitioners' conyiction
under a California statute making it a criminal offeise
to "pirate" recordings produced by others.
In 1971, an information was filed by the State of California, charging petitioners in 140 counts with -violating
§ 653h of the California Penal Code. The information

charged that; between April 1970 and March 1971,
petitioners had copied several musical performances from
commercially sold recordings without the permission of
the owner of the master record or tape.1 Petitioners
moved to dismiss the 6omplaint on the grounds that

§ 653h was in conflict with Art.' I, §8, cl. 8, of the ConIn pertinent part, the California statute provides:
",(a) Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
"(1) Knowingly and willfully transfers or causes to be transferred
any sounds recorded on a phonograph record, . . . tape, . . . or
other article on which sounds are recorded, with intent to sell or
cause to be sold .... such article on which such sounds are so
transferred, without the consent of the owner.

"(2) ...

"(b) As used in this section, 'person' means any individual, partnership, corporation or association; and 'owner' means the person
who owns the master phonograph record, . . .master tape, . . .
or other device used for reproducing recorded sounds on .phonograph records, ...
tapes, .... or other articles on which sound is
retorded, and from which the transferred recorded sounds are directly or indirectly derived."
Specifically, each count of the information alleged that, in regard
to a particular recording, petitioners had, "at and in the City of Los
Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles, State of California . . .
wilfully, unlawfully and knowingly trapsferred and caused to be
transferred sounds recorded on a tape with the intent to sell and
cause to be sold, such tape on which such sounds [were] so
transferred-. . ..

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinion of the Court

stitution, 2 the "Copyight Clause," and the federal stat.
utes enacted thereunder. Upon denial of their motion,
petitioners entered pleas of nolo contendere to 10 of the
140-ounts; the remaining counts were dismissed. On appeal, the Appellate Department of the California Superior
Court sustained the validity of the statute. After exhausting other-state appellate remedies, petitionerssought
review in this Court.
I
Petitioners were engaged in what has commonly been
called "record piracy" or "tape piracy"-the unautbprized
duplication of recdrdings of performances by major'musical artists. Petitioner's would purchase from a 'retail distributor a single tape or phonograph recording
of the popular performances they wished to duplicate.
The original recordings were produced and marketed by
recording companies with which petitioners had no contractual relationship. At petitioners' plant, the recording was reproduced on blank tapes, which could in turn
be used to replay the music on a tape player. The tape
was then wound on a cartridge. A label was attached,
stating the title of the recorded performance-the same
title as had appeared on the original recording, and the
name of the performing artists. 4 After final packaging,
2 Article I, § 8, ct. 8, provides that Congress shall have the power
"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing
for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries .... "
3 Since petitioners did not proceed to trial, the factual record
before the Court is sparse. However, both parties indicate that a
complete description of petitioners' metthod of operation may be found
in the record of Tape Indusmtries Assn. of America v. Young'r, 316
F. Supp. 340 (CD Cal. 1970), appeal dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, 401 U. S. 902 (1971), appeal pending United States Court of
Appeals, CA9, No. 26,628.
4An additional label was attached to each cartridge by petitioners,
stating that no relationship existed between petitioners and the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

the tapes were distributed to retail outlets for sale to
the public, in competition with those petitiori6s had
copied.
Petitioners made no payments to the artists wh6se
performances they reproduced and sold, or to the various trust funds established for their benefit; no payments were made to the producer, technicians, or other
staff personnel responsible for producing the original recording and paying the large expenses incurred in production.- No payments were made for the. use of the
artists' names or the album title.
The challenged California statute forbids petitioners
to transfer any performance fixed on a tape or
record onto other records or tapes with the intention of
selling the duplicates, unless they have first received
permission from those who, under state law, are the
owners. of the master recording. Although the protection afforded to each master recording is substantial,
lasting for an unlimited time, the scope of the proscribed
activities is narrow. No limitation is placed on the use
of the music, lyrics, or arrangement employed in makipg
the master recording. Petitioners are not precluded from
hiring their own musicians and artists and recQrding
an exact imitation of the ,performance embodied on'the
master recording. Petitioners are even free to hire the
same artists who made the initial recording in order to
ducer of the original recording or the individuals whose performances
had been recorded. Consequently, no claim is made that petitioners
misrepresented the source of the original recordings or the manufacturer of the tapes.
The costs of producing a single original longplaying record of a
musical performance may exceed $50,000 or $100,000.

Tape Indus-

tres Assn. of Ameica v. Younger, supra, at 344; Hearings on 8. 646
and H. R. 6927 before Subcommittee No. 3 of the House Committee
on the Judiciary, 92d Cong., 1st Sess., 27-28 (1971). For the
performance recorded on this record, petitioners would pay only the
retail cost of a single longplaying record or a single tape.

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546"

Opinion of the Court

duplicate the performance. In essence, the statute thus
provides copyright protection solely for the specific
expressions which compose the master record or tape.
Petitioners' attack on the constitutionality of § 653h
has many facets. First, they contend that the statute
establishes a state copyright of' unlimited duration, and
thus conflicts with Art. I, § 8, cl. 8, of the Constitution.
Second, petitioners claim that the state statute interferes with the implementation of federal policies inhdrent in the federal copyright statutes. 17 U. S. C. § 1
et seq. According to petitioners, it was the intention
of Congress, as interpreted by this Court in Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffil Co., 376 U. S. 225 (1964), and
Compco Corp. v. Day-Brite Lighting, 376 U. S. 234
(1964), to establish a uniform law throughout the United
States to protect original writings. As part of the federal scheme, it is urged that Congress intended to. allow
individuals to copy any work which was not protected by
a federal copyright. Since § 653h 6ffectively prohibits the
copying of works which are not entitled to federal protection, petitioners contend that if conflicts directly with
congressional policy and must fall under the Supremacy
Clause of the Constitution. - Finally, petitioners argue
that 17 U. S. C. § 2, which -allows States to protect unpublished writings, does not authorize the challenged
state provisiofi; "since - the records 'which petitioners
copied had previously been released to the public, petitioners contend that'they had, under federal law,. been
published.
We note at the outset that the federal copyright
statutes to which petitioners refer were amended by Con0

Title 17 U. S. C. § 2'provides: "Nothing in this title shall be
construed to annul or limit the right of the author or proprietor of
an unpublished work, at common law or in equity, to prevent the
copying, publication, or use of such unpublished work without His.
consent, and to obtaix damages therefor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412.U. S.

gresw while their case was pending in the state courts.
In 1971, Pub. L. 92-140, 85 Stat. 391, 17 U. S. C. §§ 1 (f),
5 (fti), 19, 20, 26, 101 (e), was passed to allow federal
cdpyright protection of recordings. However, § 3 of the
amendment specifically provides that such protection is
to be available only to sound" recordings "fixed, published, and copyrighted" on and after February 15, 1972,
and before January 1, 1975, and thaf nothing in Title 17,
as amended is to "be applied retroactively or [to] be construed as affecting in any way any rights with .respect
to sound recordings fixed before" February 1 ; 1972.
The recordings which petitioners copied were all "fixed"
prior to February 15, 1972. Since, according to the language of § 3 of the amendment, Congress did hot intend
to alter the legal relaionships which govern these recordings, the amendments have no application in petitioners'
case.

II

Petitioners' first argument rests- on the premise that
the state statute under which they were convicted lies
beyond the powers - which- the - St'ates reserved in our
federal system.- If this is correct -petitioners must prevail, sinc the States cannot exergise a-soyereign power
which, under the Constitution, they have relinquished to
the'Federar Government nor its exclusive exercise.
4
Th6 principles which the Court has followed in construing state power were stated by Alexander Hamilton
in Number 32 of The-Federalist:
"An entire consolidation of the States into one
complete national sovereignty would imply an entire gubordination of the parts; and whatever powers
'might remain inlthem would be altogether depend7.No question is raised in thp present case -as to the power of
the
States to protect recordings fixed after February 15, 1972.

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

--

Opinion of the Court

ent on the general will. But as the plan of the
[Constitutional] convention aims only at a partigl
union or consolidation, the State governments would
clearly retain all the rights of sovereignty which
they before had, and which were not, by that act,
exclusively delegated to the United States. This
exclusive delegation, or rather this alienation, of
State sovereignty, would only exist in three cases:
where the Constitution in express terms granted'an
exclusive authority to the Union; where it granted
in one instance an authority to the Union, and in
another prohibited the States from exercising the
like authority; and where it granted an authority
to the Union, to \which a similar authority in the
States would be absolutely and totally contradictory
and repugnant." I
The first two instances mentioned present no barrier to
a State's enactment of copyright statutes. The clause of
the Constitution granting to Congress the power to issue
copyrights does not provide that such power shall vest
exclusively in the Federal Government. Nor does the
Constitution expressly provide that such power shal
not be exercised by the States.
In applying the third phase of the test, we must
examine the manner in which the power to grant copyrights may operate in our federal system. The objectives:
of our inquiry were recognized in Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, 12 How. 299 (1852), when; in determining
'whether the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce 9. was "compatible with the existence of a similar
power'in the States," the Court noted:
"Whatever subjects of this power are in their nature
The Federalist No. 32, p. 241 (B. Wright ed. 1961); see Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 318-319 (1851).
9Art. I, §8, cl.
3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

national, or admit only of one uniform system, or
plan of regulation, may justly be said to be of such
a nature as to require .exclusive legislation by Congress." Id., at 319.
The Court's determination that Congress alone may
legislate over matters which are necessarily national in
import reflects the basic principle of federalism. Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall said,
"The genius and character of the [federal] government seem to be, that its action is to be applied to all
the external concerns of the nation, and to those internal concerns which affect the States generally;
but not to those which are completely within a particular State, which do not affect other States, and
with which it is not necessary to interfere, for the
purpose of executing some of the general powers of
,the government." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
195 (1824).
The question whether exclusive federal power must
be inferred is not a simple one, for the powers recognized in the Constitution are broad and the nature of
their application varied. The warning sounded by the
Court in Cooley may equally be applicable to the Copyrfght. Clause:
* "Either absolutely to affirm, or deny that the nature of [the federal power over commerce] requires
exclusive legislation by Congress, is to lose sight of the
nature of the subjects of this power,. and to assert

concerning all of them, what is really applicable but.
to a part." 12 How., at'319.
We must also be careful to distinguish those situations
in which the concurrent exercise of a power by the
Federal Government and the States or by the States
alone may possibly lead to conflicts and those situations
where conflicts will necessarily arise. "It is not

.

. .a

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinion of the Court

mere possibility of inconvenience .inthe exercise of
powers, but an immediate constitutional repugnancy that
can by implication alienate and extinguish a pre-existing
,right of [state] sovereignty." The Federalist No. 32,
p. 243 -(B. Wright ed. 1961).
Article I, § 8, el. 8, of the Constitution gives to Congress the power"To promote the Progress of Science and useful
Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and
Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective
Writings and Discoveries .
The clause thus describes both the objective which Congress may seek and the means to achieve it. The objective is to promote the progress of science and the arts.
As employed, the terms "to promote" are synonymous
with the words "to stimulate," "to encourage," or "to
induce." 11 To accomplish its purpose, Congress may
grant to authors the exclusive right to the fruits of their
respective works. An author who possesses an unlimited
copyright may preclude others from copying his creation
for commercial purposes without permission. In other
words, to encourage people to devote themselves to intellectual and artistic creation, Congress may guarantee
to authors and inventors a reward in the form of control
,over the sale or conimmercial use of copies of their works.
The objective of the Copyright Clause was clearly
to facilitate the granting of rights national in scope.
While the debates on the clause at the Constitutional
Convention were extremely limited, its purpose was
described by James Madison in the Federalist:
-!'The utility of this power will scarcely be questioned. The copyright of authors has b,en solemnly
10

See Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 328 (1859); Mitchell v.
Tilghman, 19 Wall. 287, 418 (1874); Bauer v. O'Donnel, 229 1U. S. 1,
10 (1913).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opifiion of the Court

-

412 U. S.

adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common law. The right to useful inventions seems
with eqiAal reason to belong to the inventors. The
public good fully coincides in both cases with the
claims of individuals. The States cannot separately make effectual provision, for either of the
cases, and most of them have anticipated the decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance
of Congress." 1
The difficulty noted by Madison relates to the.burden
placed on an author or inventor who wishes to achieve
protection in all States when no federal system of protection is. available. To do so, a separate application
is required to each state government; the right which in
turn may be granted has effect only within the granting
State's borers.2 The national system which Madison
supported eliminates the need for multiple applications
and the expense and difficulty involved. In effect, it
alows Congress to provide a reward greater in scope than
any particular State may grant to promote progress in
those fields which Congress determines are worthy of
national action.
Although the Copyright Clause thus recognizes the potential benefits of a national system, it does not indicate
-The Federalist No. 43, p. 309 (B. Wright ed. "1961).

2 Numerous examples may be found in our early history of the
difficulties which the creators of items of national import had in
securing'protection of their creations in all States. For example,
Noah Webster, in his effort to obtain protection for his book, A
Grammatical Institute of the English Lnguage, brought his claim
before the legislatures, of at least six States, .and perhaps as.many
as 12. See B. Bugbee, The Genesis of American Patent and Copyright Law 108-110, 120-124 (Wash., D. C., 1967); H. R. Rep. No.
2222, 60th Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1909). Similar difficulties were
experienced by John Fitch aid other inventors who desired to protect their efforts tolperfect a steamboat. See Federico, State Patents,
-13 3: Pat. Off. Soc. 166, 170-176 (1931).

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
4Opinion

of the Court.

that all writings are of national interest or that state
legislation is, in all cases, unnecessary or precluded. The
patents granted by the States in the 18th century show,
to the contrary, a willingness on the part of the States to
promote those portions of science and the arts which were
of local importance." Whatever the diversity of people's
backgrounds, origins, and interests, and whatever the
variety of business and industry in the 13 Colonies, the
range of diversity is obviously far greater today in a
country of 210 million people in 50 States. In view
of that enormous diversity, it is unlikely that all citizens
in all parts of the country place the same importance on
1s As early as 1751, Massachusetts granted to Benjamin Crabb the
exclusive right to e.ploy a specific process for the manufacture of
candles out of whale oil. It is not clear whether Crabb invented the
process. The Acts and Resolves, Public and Private, of the Province
of the Massachusetts Bay, Vol. 3, Session of Jan. 10, 1751, c. 19,
pp. 546-547 (1878). In 1780, Pennsylvania granted a patent to
Henry Guest for the processing of tanning oil and blubber, noting
specifically that the patent was "a reward for his discovery and foi
the purpose of promoting useful manufactories in this state." The
Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania from 1682 to 1801, Vol. 10, p. 132
(J.Mitchell & H. Flanders eds. 1904). Similarly, South Carolin4 granted protection to Peter Belin in 1786 for newly d&signed waterworks which aidedin the production of rice, a staple
of South Carolina agriculture, and other products. Anoter patent
relating to the processing of rice was granted by South :-4rolina in'
1788. The Statutes at Large of South Carolina, Vol. 4, p. 755
(T. Cooperaed. 1838); id., Vol. 5, p. 69 (1839). In 1787, Maryland
granted a patent on a spinning and carding machine "to encourage useful inventions, as well as promote the manufactureof cotton and
wool within this state . . . ." The Laws of Maryland, Vol. 2,
Session of Nov. 6, 1786-Jan. 20, 1787, c. 23 (W. Kilty ed. 1800). In
the-same year, Pennsylvania patented certain devices relating to.
flour mills, noting that these devices would "tend to simplify and
render cheap the manufacture of flour *hich is one of the principal
staples of this commonwealth ....
" The Statutes at Large of
Pennsylvania from 1682 to 1801, Vol. 12, pp. 483-484 (J.Mitchell &
H. Flanders eds. 1906).

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinioi of the Court

412 U. S.

works relating to all subjects. Since the subject matter
to which the Copyright Clause is addressed may thus be
of purely lopal importance and not worthy of national
attention or protection, we cannot discern such an unyielding national interest as to require an infereince that
state power to grant copyrights has been relinquished
to exclusiVe federal controL
The question to which we next turn is whether, in
actual operation, the exercise of the. power to grant copyrights by some States *ill prejudice the interests of other
States. As we have noted, a copyright granted by a
-particular State has effect only within its boundaries.
If one State grants such protection, the interests of
-States which do not are iot prejudiced since their citizens
remain 'free. to copy within their borders those works
which may -be protected: elsewhere. The interests of a
State which grants copyright protection may, however,
be adversely affected by othef States that do not; individuals who wish to purchase a copy of a work protected
in their own State will be able to buy unauthorized-copies
in other State- where no protection exists. However, this
conffict is neither so inevitable fior so severe as to compel
the conclusion, that state power has been relinquished to
the, exclusive jurisdiction of the Congress. Obviously
when some States do not grant copyright protection-and
most do not-that circumstance reduces the 'economic
value of a state copyright, but it will hardly render the
copyright worthless. - The situation is no different from
that which may arise in regard to other state monopolies,
suc h as i state lottery, or a food .concession in a limited
enclosure like a state park; in each case, citizens may
escape the effect of,one State's monopoly by making purchases in another area or another State. Similarly, in the
case of state copyrights, except as to individuals willing
to travel across state lines in order to purchase records or
other writings protected in their own State, each State's

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinion of the Colirt

copyrights will still serve to induce new artistic creations
within that State-the.-very objective of the grant of
protection.' We do not see here the type of prejudicial
conflicts which would arise, for example, if each State.
exercised a sovereign power to impose imposts and
tariffs; 2 nor can we discern a. need for uniformity such
as that which may apply to the regulation of interstate
shipments."
Similarly, it is difficult to see how the concurrent
exercise of. the power to grant copyrights by Congress
and the States will necessarily and inevitably lead to
difficulty. At any time Congress determines that a par-"
ticular category of "writing'- is worthy of national protection and the incidental expenses bf federal administration, federal copyright protection may be authorized.
Where the .need for free and unrestricted distribution of
a writing is thought to be required by the national interest, the Copyright Clause and the Commerce Clause
would allow Congress to eschew al protection. In such
cases, a conflict would develop if a State attempted to
protect that which Congress intended to be free from
restraint or to free that which Congress had protected.
However, where Congress determines that neither federal
protection nor freedom from restraint is required by the
national interest, it is at liberty to stay its hand entirely 16
Since state protection would not then conflict with federal action, total relinquishment of the States' power to
grant copyright protection cannot be inferred.
14

The Federalist No. 42, p. 305 (B. Wright ed. 1961).
15 Cf. Morgan v; Virginia,328 U. S. 373 (1946); Bibb v. Navajo
Freight Lines, 359 U.S. 520 (1959); Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona,
325 U. S. 761 (1945); Pennsylvaniav. West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553
(1923).
16 For example, Congress has allowed writin which may eventually be the subject of a federal copyright, to be prtected under state
law prior to publication. 17 TJ. S. C. § 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

-

412 U.S.

As we have seen, the language of the Constitution
neither explicitly precludes the States from granting copyrights nor grants such authority exclusively to the Federal Government. The subject matter to which the
Copyright Cladse is addressed may at times be of purely
local concern. No conflict will necessarily arise from
a lack of uniform *stateregulation, nor will the interest
of one State be significantly prejudiced by the actions of
another. No reason existg why Congress must take
affirmative -action either to authorize protection of all
categories of writings or to free them from all restraint.
We therefore conclude that, under the Constitution, the
States have not relinquished all power to grant to uthors
"the exclusive Right to their respective Writings."
B
Petitioners base an additional argument on the language of the Constitution. The California statute forbids individuals to appropriate recordings at any time
after release. From this, petitioners argue that the State
has created a copyright of unlimited duration, in violation of that portion of Art. I, § 8, el. 8, which provides that copyrights may only be granted "for limited
Times." Read literally, the text of Art. I does not
support petitioners' position. Section 8 enumerates
those powers .which have been granted to Congress;
whatever limitations have been appended to such powers
can only be understood as a limit on congressional, and
not state, action. Moreover, it is not clear that the
dangers to which this limitation was addressed apply
with equal force to both the Federal Government and
the States. When Congress grants an exclusive- right
or monopoly, its effects are pervasive; no citizen or State
may escape its reach. As we have noted, however, the
exclusive right granted by a State is confined to'its

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORMA
546

Opinion of the. Court

borders. Consequently, even when the right is inlimited
in duration, any tendency to inhibit further progress "in
science 'of the arts is narrowly circumscribed. _The challenged statute cannot be voided for lack of a durational

linftation.

-

i(
Our conclusion that Calif6rnia did not surrender its,
power to issue copyrights does not end the inquiry. We
must proceed to determine whether the challenged state"
.statute is void under the Supremacy Clause. No simple
formula can capture the complexities of this determination; the conflicts which may develop between state
and federal action are as varied as the fields t6 which
congressional action may apply. "Our primary function is to determine whether, under the circumstances of
this particular case, [the state] law stands as an obstacle
to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes
and objectives of Congress." Hines v. DavidowW, 312
,U. S. 52, 67 (1941). We turn, then, to federal copyright
law to determine what objectives Congress intended to

fulfill.
* By Art. I, § 8, cl. 8, 'of the Constitution, the States
granted to Congress the power to protect the "Wriings'"
of "Authors." These terms have- not -been construed
in their narrow literal, sense but, rather, -with. the
reach necessary to reflect the broad scope of constitutional principles. While an "author" may be viewed as
an individual who writes an original composition, the
term, in it s constitutional sense, has been construed to
mean an "originator," "he to whom anything owes its
origin." Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111
U. S. 53, 58 (1884): Similarly, although the word "writ..
ings" might be limited to script or printed material, it
may be interpreted to include any physical rendering of
the fruits - of creative intellectual or aesthetic labor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Ibid.; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 94 (1879). Thus,
recordings of artistic performances. may be within the
reach of Clause 8.
While the area in which Congress may act is broad,
the enabling provision of Clause 8 does not require that
Congress act in regard to all categories of materials which
meet the constitutional definitions. Rather, whether any
specific category of "Writings" is to be brought within the
purview of the federal statutory scheme is left to the
discretion of the Congress. The history of federal copyright statutes indicates that the congressional determina'tion to consider specific classes of writings is dependent,
not only on the character of the writing, but also bn the
commercial importance of the product to the national
economy. As our technology has expanded the means
available for creative activity and has provided economical means for reproducing manifestations of such activity,
new areas of federal protection have been initiated. 7
1

7 The first congressional copyright statute, passed -in 1790, governed only maps, charts, and books. Act of May 31, 1790, c. 15,
1 Stat. 124. In 1802, the Act was amended in order to grant protection to any person "who shall invent and design, engrave, etch
or work . . . any historical or other print or prints . . ." Act of
Apr. 29, 1802, c. 36, 2 Stat. 171. Protection was extended to mu'sical compositions when the copyright laws were revised in 1831.
Act, of Feb. 3, 1831; c. 16, 4 Stat. 436. In 1865, at the time when
Mathew Brady's pictures of the Civil War were attaining fame,
photographs and photographic negatives were expressly aaded to
the list of protected works. Act of Mar. 3, 1865, c. 126, 13 Stat.
540. Again in 1870, the list was augmented- to cover paintings,
drawings, chromos, statuettes, statuary, and models or designs of fine
art. Act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, 16 Stat. 198.
1 In 1909, Congress agreed to a major consolidation
and amendment of all federal copyright statutes. A list of 11 categories of
protected works was provided. The relevant sections of the Act are
discussed in the text of our opinion. The House Report on the proposed bill specifically noted that amendmeit was required because

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinon of the Coust

Petitioners contend that the actions taken by Congress
in establishing federal copyright protection preclude the
States from granting similar protection to recordings of
musical performances. According to petitioners, Congress addressed the question of whether recordings of
performances should be granted protection in 1909; Congress determined that any. individual who-was entitled to
a copyright on an original musical composition should
have the right to control to a limited extent the use of
that composition on recordings, but that the record
itself, and the performance which it was capable of
reproducing were not worthy of such protection. 8 In
"the reproduction of various things which are the subject of copyright has enormously increased," and that the President has specifically recommended revision, among other -Teasons, because the prior
laws "omit[ted] provision for many articles which, under modem
reproductive processes,. are entitled to protection." H. R. Rep. No.
2222, supra, n. 12, at I (quoting Samuel J.Elder and President Theodore Roosevelt).
Since 1909, two additional amendments have been added. In
1912, the list of categories in § 5 was expanded specifically to include
motion pictures. The House Report on the amendment noted:
"The occasion for this proposed amendment is the fact that the
production of motion-picture photoplays and motion pictures other
than photoplays has become a business of vast proportions. Tke
money invested therein is so great and the property rights so valuable that the committee is of the opinion that the copyright law
ought to be so amended as to give to them distinct and 'definite
recognition and protection." H. R. Rep. No. 756, 62d Cong., 2d
Sess., 1 (1912).
Finally, in 1971, § 5 was amended to include "sound recordings."
Congress was spurred to action by the growth of record piracy,
which was, in.turn, due partly to technological advances. See Hear.:
ings on S. 646 and H. R. 6927, supra, n. 5, at 4-5i 11 (1971). It
must be remembered that the "record piracy" charged against petitioners related to recordings fixed by the original producer prior to
Feb. 15, 1972, the effective date of the 1971 Act. See supra, at
551-552.
Is17 U. S. C. § 1 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

support of their claim, petitioners cite the House Report
on the 1909 Act, which states:
"It is not the intention of the committee to extend
the right of copyright to the mechanical reproductions themselves, but only to give the composer or
copyright proprietor-the control, in accordance with
the provisions of the bill, of the manufacture and
use of such devices." H. R. Rep. No. 2222, 60th"
Cong., 2d Sess., 9 (1909).
To interpret accurately Congress' intended purpose in
passing the 1909 Act and the meaning of the House Report petitioners cite, we must remember that our modern
technology differs greatly from that which existed in
1909. The Act and the report should not be read as f
they were written today, for to do so would inevitably
distort their intended meaning; rather, we must read,
them against the background of 1909, in which they were
written.
In 1831, Congress first extended federal copyright protection to original musical compositions. An individual
who possessed such a copyright had the exclusive authority to sell copies of the musical score; individuals, who
purchased such a copy did so for the most part to play the
composition at home on a piano or other instrument. Between 1831 and 1909, numerous machines were invented
which allowed the composition to be reproduced rdechanically. For example, one had only to -insert a piano roll
or disc with perforations in appropriate places into a player
piano to achieve almost the samne results which previously
required someone capable of playing the instrument. The
mounting sales of such devices detracted from the value of
the copyright granted for the musical composition. Individuals who had use of a piano roll and an appropriate
instrument had little, if any, need for a copy of the sheet

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA:
546

\

Opinion of.the Court

musics9 The problems which arose -eventually reached
this Court in 1908 in the case of White-Smith Musi
Publishing Co. v. Apollo Co., 209 U. S. 1. There, the
Apollo Company had manufactured piano rolls capable bf reproducing mechanically compositions covered
by a copyright owned by appellant. Appellant con-tended that the piano rolls constituted "copies" of -the
copyrighted composition and that their sale, without permission, constituted an infringement of the copyright.
The Court held that piahio rolls, as well as records, wee
not "copies" of the copyrighted composition, in terms
of the federal copyright statutes, but were merely component parts, of a machine which executed the composition.2 0 Despite the fact that the piano rolls employed
the creative work of the composer, all protection wasdenied.
It is against this background that Congress passed the
1909 statute. After pointedly waiting for the C6urt's
decision in White-Smith Music Publishing Co.,21 Congress determined that the copyright statutes should
be amended to insure that composers of originalmusical
works received adequate xrotection to encouragejurther
artistic and creative effort. Henceforth, under §1.(e),
10 H. R. Rep. No. 7083, 59th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 2, p. 2 (1907)
(Minority Report).
20 "After all, what is the perforated roll? The. fNt is clearly
established in the testimony in this case that even those skilled in
the making of these rolls are unable to redd them as musical compositions, as those in staff notation are read by the lerformer....
"These perforated rolls are parts of a machine, whicb, when duly
applied and properly operated in connection with the mechanism
to which they 'are adapted, produce musical tones in harmonious
combination. But we cannot think that they arecopies within the
meaning of the copyright act." White-Smith Muic Publishing Co.
v. Apollo Co., 209 U.' B. 1, 18 (1908).
21 H. R. Rep. No. 7083, supra, n. 19, pt. 1, at .10; pt. 2, at 3-4.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412U.S.

records and j2 ano rolls were to be considered as "copies"
of the original-composition they were capable of reproducing, and could "noi be manufactured unless payment
was made to the proprietorof the romposition copyright.
The section of the House Report cited by petitioners was
intended only to establish, the limits of-the composer's
right; composers were to have no control over the recordings themselves. Nowhere does the'report indicate'
that Congress considered records-as anything but a comp6nent parte'f a machine, capable of reproducing an original composition 12 or that Congress Intended records, as
renderingsof originalartisticperformance,to be free from

'state control."
22 Thik is especially clear from the comment made by the Committee on Patents in regard to a foreign statute which, to some
extent, pretected performances. The committee stated that the -foreign stitute "in no way affects the reproduction of such music by
phonographs, graphophones, or the ordinary piano-playing instruments, for in these instruments the reproduction is purely mechanical." H. R: Rep. N6.2222, supra, n. 12, at 5.
3Petitioners do not argue that § 653h conflicts with that portion
of 17 U. S. C. § 1 (e)which provides:
"[WJhenever the owner of i musical copyright has used or permitted or knowingly" acquiesced in the use of the copyrighted work
upon the parts of -instruments serving to reproduce mechanically the
musical, work, any other person may make similar use of the copy'righted work upon the payment to the copyright proprietor of a
royalty of 2 cents on each such part manufactured ...
Assuming, arguendo, that petitioners' u~e of the composition they
duplicated 6onstitut& a "similar- use," the challenged state statute'
might be clainied to aiminish the return which is due the composer
by lessening the number of .copies produced, and thus to conflict
with § 1 .e). However, as we have noted above, the *means presently available for. reproducing .'ecordings were not in existence in
1909 when 17 U.,S. C. § 1 (e) was passed. We see no indication that
the. challenged state statue detracts from royaltfes which Congress
intended the composer to receive. .Furthermore, many state statutes
may diminish the number of copies produced. 'Taxing statutes, for

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinion of the Court

Petitioners' argument does not rest entirely on the
belief that Congress intended specifically to exempt-recordings of'performances from state control. Assuming
that no such intenion- may be found, they argue that
Congress so occupied the field of copyright protection
as to pre-empt all comparable state action. Rice v.
Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218 (1947). This
assertion is based on the language of 17 U. S. C.
§§ 4"and 5, and on this Court's opinions in Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376 U. S. 225 (1964), and
Compco Corp. v., Day-Brite Lighting, 376 U. S. 234

(1964).

Section 4 of the federal copyright laws provides:
"The works for which copyright may be secured
under this title shall include all the writings of an
author." 17 U. S. C. § 4.

Section 5, which lists specific categories of protected
works, .adds:
"The above specifications shall not be held to limit
the subject'matter of .opyright as defined in section
4 of this titIs . . . " 17 U. S. C. §5.
'
Siiice § 4 employs the constitutional term "writings," 24
it may be argued that Congress intended to exercise its
authority 6ver all works to which the constitutional provision might apply. However, in the more than 60 years
which have elapsed since enactment of this provision,
neither the Copyright Office, the courts, nor the Congress has so interpreted it. The Register of Copyr.ghts,
example, may raise the cost of producing or selling recorcs :and
thereby lessen the number of records which may be-sold or inhibit
new companies from entering this field of commerce.* We do riot
see in these statutes the*direct conflict necessary to render a state
statute invalid.
24 H.

R. Rep. No. "2222, supra,"n.12, at 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Courtv

412 U. S.

who is charged with administration of the statute, has
consistently 'ruled that "claims to exclusive rights in
mechanical recordings ... or in the performances they
reproduce" are not entitled to protection under § 4. 37
CFR § 202.8 (b) (1972).

2

2

1

With one early exception,

1

American courts have agreed with this interpretation; 21
and in 1971, prior to passage of the statute which extended federal protection to recordings fixed on or after
February 15, 1972, Congress acknowledged the validity of
that interpretation. Both the House and Senate Reports on the proposed legislation recognized that recordings qualified as "writings" within the meaning of
the Constitution, but had not previously been protected
under the federal copyright statute. H. R. Rep. No.
92-487, pp. 2, 5 (1971); S. Rep. No. 92-72, p. 4 (1971).
In light of this consistent interpretation by the courts,
the agency empowered to administer the copyright stat25

The registration of records under the provisions of the. 909 Act
would give rise to numerous Administrative difficulties. It is difficult
to discern how an individual who wished to copyright a record could
comply with the notice and deposit provisions of the statute. 17
U. S. C. §§ 12, 13, 19, 20. Nor is it clear to whom the'copyright
could rightfully be issued or what constituted publication. Finally,
the administrative and economic burden of classifying and maintaining copies of records would have been considerable. See Chafee,
Reflections on the Law of Copyright; .I,45 Col. L. Rev. 719, 735
(1945); Ringer, The Unauthorized Duplication of Sound Recordings,
Studies Prepared for the Subcommittee on Patents, Trademarks, and
Copyrights of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 86th Cong.,
2d Sess., 2 (comm. print 1961); Hearings on S.646 and H. R. 6927
supra, n..5, at 11, 14.
20 Fonotipia,Ltd. v. Rradley, 17i F. 951, 963 (EDNY 1909).
27
Aeolian Co. v. Royal Music Roll Co., 196 F. 926, 927 (WDNY
1912); Waring v. WDAS BroadcastingStation, 327 Pa. 433, 437-438,
194 A. 631, 633-634 (1937); CapitolRecords, Inc. v. Mercury Records
Corp., 221 F. 2d 657, 661-662 (CA2 1955); Jerome v. Twentietk
Century Fox-Film Corp., 67 F. Supp. 736, 742 (SDNY 1946).

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Ophion of the Court

utes, and Congress itself, we cannot agree that §§ 4 and 5
have the broad scope petitioners claim.
Sears and Compco, on which petitioners rely, do not
support their position.- In those cases, the question was

whether a State could, under principles of a state unfair

competition law, preclude the copying of mechanical
configurations which did not possess the qualities required
for the granting of a federal design or mechanical patent.
The Court stated:
"[The patent system is one in which uniform federal standards are carefully used to promote invention while at the same time preserving free competition. Obviously a State could not, consistently
with the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution,
extend the life of a patent beyond its expiration
date or give a patent on an article which lacked the
level of invention required for federal patents. To
do either would run counter to the policy of Congress
of granting patents only to true inventions, and
then only for a limited time. Just as a State cannot encroach upon the federal patent laws directly,
it calinot; under some other law, such as that forbidding unfair competition, give protection of a kind
that clashes 0ith the objectives of the federal patent
la*-s; Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376
U. S., at 230-231 (footnotes omitted.).
In regard to mechanical configurations, Congress had
balanced the need to encourage innovation and originality
of in-ention against the need to insure competition in
the sale of identical or substantially identical products.The standards established for granting federal patent
protection to machines thus indicated not only which
articles in this particular category Congress wished to
protect, .but which configurations it wished to remain
free. The application of state law in these qjses to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

vent the copying of articles which did not meet the requirements for federal protection disturbed the careful
balance which Congress had drawn and thereby necessarily gave way under the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution. No comparable conflict between state law
and federal law arises in the case cf recordings of musical
performances. In regard to this category of "Writings,"
Congress has drawn no balance; rather, it has left the
area unattended, and no reason exists why the State
28
should not be free to act.
IV
More than 50 years ago, Mr. Justice Brandeis observed
in dissent in International News Service v. Associated
Press:
"The general rule of law is, that the noblest of
human productions--knowledge, truths ascertained,
conceptions, and ideas-become, after voluntary
communication to others, free as the air to common
use."
48 U. S.215, 250 (1918).
But there is no fied, immutable line to tell us which
"human' pioductions" are private property and which
are so general as to.become "free ag the air." In earlier
times, a performing artist's work was largely restricted
to the stage; once performed, it remained "recorded"
only in the memory of those who had seen or heard it.
Today, we can record that performance in precise detail
28 Petitioners place great stress on their belief that the records or
tapes which they copied had been "published." We have no need
to determine whether, under state law, these recordings had been published or what legal consequences such publication might have. For
purposes of federal law, "publication" serves only as a term of the
art which defines the legal relationships which Congress has adopted
under the federal copyright statutes. As to categories of writings
which Congress has not bxought within the scope of the federal
statute, the term has no application.

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

Opinion of the Court

and reproduce it again and again with utmost fidelity.
The California statutory scheme evidences a legislative
policy to prohibit "tape piracy" and "record piracy," conduct that may adversely affect the continued production
of new recordings, a large industry in California. Accordingly, the State has, by statute, given to recordings the
attributes of property. No restraint has been placed on
the use of an idea or concept; rather, -petitioners and
other individuals remain free to record the same compositions in precisely the same manner and with the same
personnel as appeared on the original recording.
In sum, we halve shown that § 653h does not conflict
with the federal copyright statute enacted by Congress
in 1909. Similarly, no conflict exists between the federal
copyright statute passed in 1971 and the present application of § 653h, since California charged petitioners only
with copying recordings fixed prior to February 15, 1972.2
Finally, we have concluded that our decisions in $ears
and Compco, which we reaffirm today, have no application in the present case, since Congress has indicated
neither that it wishes to protect, nor to free from protection, recordings of musical perf6rmances fixed prior to
February 15,- 1972.
We conclude that the State of California has exercised
a power which it retained under the Constitution, and
that the challenged statute, as applied in this case, does
not intrude into an area which Congress has, up to now,
pre-empted. Until and unless Congress takes further
action with respect to recordings fixed prior to February 15, 1972, the California statute may be enforced
against acts of piracy -such as those- which occurred in
the present case.

AffirmM.
29 Supra, a551-552.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

Ma. JusTicO DOUGLAS, with whom MR. Jusic. BmRNNA" and MR. JusTIcE BACWKmuN concur, -dissenting.
Article I, § 8, cl. 8, of the Constitution provides:
"The Congress shall have Power . . . [t]o promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by
securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors
the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and
Discoveries."
Madison made a brief comment on this provision
both patents and, copyrights:

- governing

"The States cannot separately make effectual provision for either of the-- cases, and most of them
have anticipated the decision of this point, by laws
passed at the instance of Congress"'
We\have been faithful to that admonition. In Sears
Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376 U. S. 225, 230-231, we
saido
7w
"'Thus the patent system is one in which uniform
federal standards are carefully used to promote invention .while.at the samc time preserving free competition.'- Obviously a State coulduotncoisistently
with the Supremacy Clause of the Constitition, extend the life of a patent beyond its expiration date
or give a'patent on an article which lacked the level
of invention required for federel patents. To do
either would run counter to the policy of Congress
of granting patents only to true inventions, and then
only for a limited time. Just as a State cannot
encroach upon the federal patent laws directly, it
cannot, under'some other law, such as that forbidding unfair competition, give protection of a kind
The Federalist No. 43, p- 9 (B. Wright ed. 1961).

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

that clashes with the objectives of the federal patent
laws."
An unpatentable article is "in the public domain and
may be made and sold by whoever chooses to do so."
Id., at 231. In that case we did not allow a State to use
its unfair competition law to prevent copying of an article which lacked such novelty that it could not be
patented. In a companion case, Compco Corp. v. DayBrite Lighting, 376 U. S. 234,237, where an unfair competition charge was made under state law, we made the
same ruling, stating:
"Today we have held in Sears, Roebuck & Co. v:
Stiffel Co., supra, that when an article is unprotected by a patent or a copyright, state law may not
forbid others to copy 'that article. 'To forbid copying would interfere with -the federal policy, found
in Art. I, § 8, cl. 8, of the Constitution and in the
implementing federal statutes, of allowing free access to copy whatever the federal patent and copyright laws leave in the public domain."
Prior to Februxy 25, 1972, copyright protection was
not extended to sound recordings. Sears and Compco
make clear that the federal policy expressed in Art. I,
§ 8, el. 8, is to have "national uniformity in patent and
copyright laws," 376 U. S., at 231 n. 7, a policy bolstered
by Acts of Congress which vest "exclusive jurisdiction to
hear patent and copyright cases in federal courts... and
that section of the Copyright Act which expressly saves
state protection of unpublished writings but does not include published writings." Ibid.
Prior to February. 15, 1972,2 sound recordings had no
-

The effective date of Pub. L. 92-140, 85 Stat. 392.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1972

574

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

-copyrighit 'protection;

-

412 U.S.

And even under that Act the

'copyright -would be effective "only to sound recordings
fixed, published, aid copyrighted on and after the effeb"
tive date of this Act [-Feb. 15, 1972] and before January 1, 1975." 8
California's law promotes monopoly; the federal policy promotes monopoly only when'a copyright is issued,'
and it fosters competition in all other instances. -Moreover, federal law limits ifs monopoly to 28 years plus a
like renewal period,' while. California extends her monopoly into perpetuity.
Cases like Sears were surcharged with "unfair competition" and the present one with "pirated recordings."
But free acces;to products on the market is the consumer.
interest protected by the failure of Congress to extend
patents or copyrights into various areas. .The drive for
monopoly protection is strong as is evident from a reading
of the committee reports on the 1971 Act.3 Yet, Congress tbok but a short step, setting up a trial period to
consider the new monopoly approach. It wa' told that
state laws, such as we have in this case, were being challenged on the ground that the Federal Constitution had
pre-empted the field, even in absence of a provision for
making it possible to obtain a copyright for sound recordings. But the House Committee made only the
following comment:
"While the committee expresses no opinion concerning this legal question, it is clear that the extension
of copyright protection to sound recordings would
resolve manyof the problems which have arisen in
§3.
'17 U. S. C. §24.
5H. R.-Rep. No. 92-487; S. Rep. No. 92-72.
3Id.,

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA

Do GxAs, J., dissenting

546

connection with the efforts to combat piracy iii State
courts."
The Department of Justice in commenting on the proposals that resulted in the 1971 Act told the House:
"We believe that extending copyright to reproduction of sound recordings is the soundest, and in our
interpretation of Sears and Compco, the only. way
in which. sound recordings should be protected.
Copyright protection is narrowly defined and limited,
in duration; whereas state remedies, whose validity
is still in doubt, frequently create broad and unwarranted perpetual monopolies. Moreover, there is
an immediate and urgent need for this protection." I
The need for uniformity was stated by Judge Learned
Hand in a dissent in Capitol Records. Inc. v. Mercury
Records Corp., 221 F. 2d 657. That case involved the
duplication of uncopyrighted sound -recordings, the court
holding that state law prevailed where there was no
federal copyright provision. Judge Hand emphasized in
his dissent that "uniformity" was one of the 'principal
purposes of the Patent and Copyright Clause and that
uniformity could 'beobtained only'by pre-emption. He
said:
"If, for example in the case at bar, the defendant
is forbidden to make and sell these records in New
York, that will not prevent it-from making and
selling them in any other state which may regard
the plaintiff's sales as a 'publication' and it will be
practically impossible to prevent their importation
into New York. That is exactly-the kind of evil at
which the clause is directed." Id., at 667.
I would reverse the judgment below.
8
H.
7

R. Rep., supra, n. 5,at 3.

1d., at 13.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MaSHALI, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE
BREzNAN and MR.JUSTICE BIAcmuw join, dissenting.

The argument of the Court, as I understand it,-is this:
Art. I, § 8, c. 8, of the Constitution gives Congress
the power "[t] o promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and
Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries." The Framers recognized that
individual States might have peculiarly local interests
that Congress might not consider worthy of attention.
Thus, the constitutional provision does not, of its own
force, bar States from promoting those loca, interests.
However, as the Court noted in Sears, R.oebuck & Co. v.
Stiffel Co., 376 U. S.225 (1964), with respect to every
particular item within general classes enumerated in
the relevant statutes, Congress had balanced the need
to promote invention against the desire to preserve free
competition, and had concluded that it was in the national interest to preserve competition as to every item
that. could not be patented. That is, the fact that some
item could not be patenteddemonstrated that, in the
judgment of Congress, it was best to let competition in
the production of that item go unrestricted. The situation with regard to copyrights is said to be similar. There
Congress enumerated certain classes of works for which a
copyright may be secured. 17 U. S. C. § 5. Its silence
as to other classes does not reflect a considered judgment
about the relative importance of competition and promotion of "Science and useful Arts." Thus, the Court says,

the States remain, free to protect as they will "writings"
not in the enumerated classes, until Congress acts. Since
sound recordings fixed prior to February 15, 1972, were
not enumerated by Congress as subject to copyrighting,'
the States may protect such recordings.
Sound rec-rdings fixed after that date may be copyrighted.
Pub. L. 92-140, 85 Stat. 391, 17 U. S. C. § 5 (n) (1970 ed., Supp. I).

GOLDSTEIN v., CALIFORNIA-

546

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

577
-

With respect, I cannot accept the final step of this
argument. In my view, Congress has demonstrated its
desire to exercise the full grant of .constitutional power.
Title 17 U. S. C. § 4, states: "The works for Which
copyright may be iecured under this title shall 'include
all the writings of an author" (emphasis added). The
use of the constitutional terms "writings" and "auithr"
rather strongly suggests that Congress intended to follow the constitutional grant. It could exercise the power
given it by the Constitution in two ways: either by
protecting all writings, or by protecting all writings within
designated classes and leaving open to, competition all
writings in other-classes. Section 5 shows.that the latter
course was chosen, for it enumerates various classes of
works that may be registered 2 Ordinarily, the failure
to enumerate "sound recordings" in § 5 would not be
taken as an expression of CQngress' desire to let free
competition reign in the reproduction of such recordings,
for, because of the realities of the legislative process, it
is generally difficult to infer from a failure to act any
affirmative conclusions. Cf. Cleveland v. United States,
329 U. S. 14, 22 (1946) (Rutledge, -J.' concurring). But
in Sears and its companion case, Compco Corp. v. DayBrite Lighting, 376 U. S. 234 (1964), the Court determined -that with respect to patents and copyrights,
the ordinary practice was not to prevail. In view of the
importance of not imposing unnecessary restraints on
competition, the Court adopted in those cases a rule of
construction that, unless the "filure to provide patent
2From the language of § 4 and the proviso of § 5, it could be
rather strongly argued that Congress had intended to afford .pro-

teetion to every writing. I agree with the Court, however, thal the
consistent administrative interpretation of those sections, in conjunction with the practical difficulty of applying to novel cases certainstatutory requirements, like that requiring placement of the notice
of copyright on every copy, 17 U. S. C. § 10, precludes such an
argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MmsALL,

J'.,

dissenting

412 U. 8

or copyright protection tor some class of works could
clearly be shown to reflect a judgment that state regulation'was permitted, the silence of Congress would be
taken: to reflect a judgment that free competition should
prevail. I do not find in Sears and Compco a limitation
on that rule of construction to general classes that Con-

gress has enumerated although, of course, on the facts
of those cases only items in such classes were involved;
rather, the broadest language was used in those cases.'
Nor can I find in the course of legislation sufficient evidence to convince me that Congress determined to permit
state regulation of the reproduction of sound recordings.
For, whenever technological advances made extension of
copyright -protection seem wise, Congress has, acted
promptly. See ante, at 562-563, n. 17.1 This seems to
me to reflect the same judgment that the Court found in
3 It bears noting that in Sears, Roebuck -& Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376
U. S. 225 (1964), the Court repeatedly referred to the patent and
copyright statutes as if the same rules of interpretation applied to
both. See, e. g., id., at 228, 231 n. 7; Compeo Corp. v. Day-Brite

Lighting, 376 U. S. 234, 237 (1964).
4 Between 1909 and "1951, Congress' attention was repeatedly
drawn to problems of copyrighting sound recordings. Many bills to
provide copyright protection for such recordings were introduced, but
none were. enacted. See Ringer, The Unauthorized Duplication of
Sound Recordings, Studies Prepared for the Subcommittee on
Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights of the Senate Committee
on the Judiciary, 86th Cong., 2d Sess., 21-37 (Comm. Print
1961). Respondent argues that Congress failed to enact these bills
primarily out of uncertainty about the relationship between federal
law and international copyright conventions, and was comforted in
the knowledge that protection was available under state law., See
Brief for Respondent 28-32. However, it is enough that Congress
was aware of the problem, and could have acted, as it did when other
technological innovations presented new problems, rather expeditiously. The problems that Congress confronted in 1971 did not
spring up in 1970, but had existed, and Congress had not acted, for
many years before.

GOLDSTEIN v. CALIFORNIA
546

MA.sHAm, J., dissenting

Sears and Compco: Congress has decided that free corn
petition should be the general rule, until it is convinced
that the failure to provide copyright or patent protection
is hindering "the Progress of Science and useful Arts."
The business of record piracy is not an attractive one;
persons in the business capitalize on the talents of others
without needing to assess independently the prospect of
public acceptance of a performance. --But the same might
be said of persons who copy "mechanical configurations."
Such people do provide low-cost reproductions that may
well benefit the public. In light of the presumption of
Sears and Compco that congressional silence betokens a'
determination that the benefits of competition outweigh
the impediments placed on creativity by the lack of copyright protection, and in the absence of a congressional
determination that the opposite is true, we should not
let our distaste for "pirates" iiiterferewith our interpretation of the copyright laws. I would therefore hold
that, as to sound recordings fixed before February 15,
'1972, the States may not enforce laws limiting
reproduction..

