470O

OCTOBER TERM,' 1972
Syllabus

4i 2 J. S.

WARDIUS v. OREGON
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON

No. 71-6042. Argued January 10, 1973-Decided June 11, 1973
At petitioner's criminal trial, a witness' alibi 'evidence was struck as
a sanction for petitioner's failure to file a notice of alibi ii accordance with Oregon's statutory requirement,'and'petitioner himself
was not-allowed to give alibi testimony. Following petitioner's
conviction the appellate court, affirming, rejected his-constitutional
challenge to the state statute, which grants no discovery rights to
criminal defendants. Held. Reciprocal discovery is required by
fundamental fairness and it is insufficient that although the
statute" does not require it, the State might grant reciprocal discovery in a given case. In the absence of fair notice that petitioner will have an opportunity to discover the State's rebuttal
witnesses, petitioner cannot, consistently with due process, requirements, be required to reveal his alibi defense. Pp: 473-479.
Reversed and remanded; see 6 Ore. App. 391, 487 P. 2d 1380.
MARnsHA,, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which
STEwART, WHrrE, BLAcKmUN, Pcwm, and REHNQTjIsT,

BRuNwxi,

JJ., joined.

BuRGER, C. J.', concurred in the result.

DouGLAs, J.,

filed an opinion concurring in the result, post, p. 479.

I. Marvin Kuhn argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
W.

'Michael, Gillette, Assistant Attorney General of

Oregon, argued the cause for respondent. With him on
the briefs were Lee Johnson, Attkrney General, John W.
Osburn, Solicitor General, and Johin H. Clough, Assistant

Attorney Gelleral.*
*Jeome B. Falk, Jr., filed a brief for Virgil Jenkins as amicW
curae .urging' reversal.

WARDIUS v. OREGON
470

Opinion of the Court

MR.JUsTicE MARsHAL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
-This case involves important questions concerning the
right of a defendant forced to comply with a "notice-ofalibi" rule to reciprocal discovery.
In Williams v. Florida,399 'U. S. 78 (1970), we upheld
the constitutionality of Florida's notice-of-alibi rule which
required criminal defendanfs intending to rely on an
alibi defense to notify the prosecution of the place at
which they claimed to be at the time in question, and of
the names and addresses of witnesses they intended to
call in support of the alibi.' In so holding; however, we
emphasized that the constitutionality of such rules might
depend on "whether the defendant enjoys reciprocal discovery against the State." Id., at 82 n. I12
In the case presently before us, Oregon prevented a
criminal defendant from introducing any evidence to siqpport his alibi defense as a sanction for his failure to
comply with a notice-of-alibi rule which, on 'its face,
The requirement was attacked as a violation of the defendant's
due process right to a fair trial and an invasion of his privilege
against self-incriminaton. But the Court found that "[g]iven the
ease with which an alibi can be fabricated, the State's interest in
protecting itself against an eleventh-hour defense is both obvious
and legitimate." 399 U. S., at 81. Moreover, we held that "the
privilege against self-incrimination is not violated by a requirement
that the defendant give notice of an alibi defense and disclose his
alibi witnesses." Id., at 83.
2The Florida rule provided:
"'Not less than five days after receipt of defendant's witness list,
or such other times as the court may direct, the prosecuting attorney
shall file and serve upon the defendant the names and addresse (as
particularly as are known to ihe prosecuting attorney) of the witnesses the State proposcs to offer in rebuttal to discredit the defendant's alibi at the trial of the cause."' See 399 U. S., at 104.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

made no provision for reciprocal discovery. 3 The case
thus squarely presents the question left open in Williams,
and we granted certiorari so that this question could be
resolved. 406 U. S. 957 (1972).
We hold that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbids enforcement of alibi rules
unless reciprocal discovery rights are given to criminal
defendants. Since the Oregon statute did not provide
for reciprocal discovery, it was error for the court below
to enforce it against petitioner, -and his conviction must
be reversed.

I
On May 22, 1970, petitioner was indicted under Ore.
Rev. Stat. § 474.020 for unlawful sale of narcotics. The
sale allegedly occurred the previous day. At trial, after
the State had concluded its case, petitioner called one
Ore. Rev. Stat. § 135.875 provides:
"(1) If the defendant in a criminal action proposes to rely in any
way on alibievidence, he shall, not less than five days before the.
trial of the cause, file and serve upon the district attorney a written
notice of his purpose to offer such evidence, which notice shall state
specifically the place or places where the defendant claims-to have
been at the time or times of the alleged offense together with the
name and residence-or business address of eaoh witness upon whom
the defendant intends to rely for alibi e~Idence. If the defendant
fails to ifie and serve such notice, he shall not be permitted to
introduce alibi evidence at the trial of the cause unless the court for
good cause orders otherwise.
"(2) As used in this section, 'alibi evidence' means evidence that
the defendant in a criminal action was, at the time of commission
of the alleged offense, at a place other than the place where such
offense was committed."
SPetitioner also argues that even if Oregon's notice-of-alibi rule
were valid, it could not be enforced by excludin either his own
testimony or the testimony of supporting witnesses at trial.. But
in light of'-our holding that Oregon's rule is facially invalid, we
express no view as to whether a valid rule could be so enforced.
,Cf. Williams'v. Florida,'supra, at 83 n. 14.

WARDIUS v. OREGON
470

.Opinion 6f the Court

Colleen McFadden who testified that on the night in question, she had been with petitioner at a drive-in movie.
The prosecutor thereupon brought to the judge's attention
petitioner's failure to file a n6tice of.alibi, and after hearing argument the trial judge granted the State's motion to
strike McFadden's testimony because of this failure.
Petitioner himself then took the stand 'and attempted
to testify that he was at the drive-in with MePadden
at the time when the State alleged the sale occurred.
Once again, however, the State objected and the trial
judge again refused to permit the evidence.
Petitioner was convicted as charged and sentencedto
18 months' imprisonment, On appeal, the Oregon Court
of Appeals rejected petitioner's contentions that the Oregon statute was unconstitutional in the absence of recip-rocal discovery rights and that the exclusio sanction
*abridged his right'to testify in his own behalf and his
right to compulsory process. 6 Ore. App. 391, 487 P. 2d
1380 (1971). In an unreported order, the Oregon Supreme Court denied petitioner's petition to review. See
App. 21.

II
Notice-of-alibi rules, now in use in a large and groVng
number of States,%are based on the proposition that ihe
ends of justice will best be served by a system of liberal
diseovery which gives both parties the maximum possiale
amount of information. with which to prel~are their cases .and thereby reduces the possibility of surprise at tral.
See, e. g., Brennan, The Criminal Prosecution: Sporting
Event or Quest for Truth?, 1963 Wash."U. L. Q. 279;
American Bar Association Project on Standards for
Criminal Justice, Discovery. and Procedure Before.
SSee Id., at 82 n.11; Note, The Preclusion Sanction-A Violation,
of the Constitutional Right to Present a Defense, 81 Yale L. .
1342 A:4 (1972).

474

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U S.

Trial 23-43 (Approved Draft 1970; Goldstein, The
State and' the Accused: Balance of Advantage in Criminal Procedure, 69 Yale7 L. J. 1149 (1960). The growth
of such. discovery devices is a salutary development.
which, by increasing the dvidence ayailable to both
parties, enhances the fairness of ithe adversary system.
As we recognized in Williams, nothing in the Due Process
Clause precludes States from experimenting with systems
of broad discovery designed to achieve these goals. "The
adversary system of trial is hardly an end in itself; it is*
not yet a poker game in which players enjoy an absolute
right always to conceal their cards until played. We
find ample room in that system at least' as far as 'due
process' is concerned, for [a rule] which is designed to
enhance the search for truth in the criminal trial by insuring both the defendant and the State ample opportunity to investigate certain facts crucial to the determination of guilt or innocence." 399 U. S., at 82 (footnote omitted).
Although the Due Procesg Clause has little to say
regarding the amount of discovery which the parties must
be afforded, but cf. Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83
(1963). it does speak to the balance of forces between
the accused and his accuser. Cf. In re Winship, 397
U. S. 358, 361-364 "(1970).' The Williams Court was
therefoie careful to note that "Florida law provides for
liberal discovery by the defendant against the State, and
the notice-of-alibi rule is itself carefully hedged with
reciprocal duties requiring state disclosure to the defend6

This Court has therefore been particularly suspicious of state'
trial rules which provide nbnreciprocal benefits to the State when
the lack of reciprocity interfees with the defendant's ability to
secure a fair trial. See, e. g., Washington v. Texas, 388 U. S. 14, 22
(1967); Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335, 344 (1963). Cf.
Goldstein, The State and the Accused: Balance of Advantage in
Criminal Procedure, 69 Yale L. J. 1149, 1180,192. (1960).

WARDIUS v. OREGON
470

Opinion of the Court

ant." 399 U. S., at 81 (footnote omitted).

The same

cannot be said of Oregon law. As the State conceded at
oral argument, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 19, Oregon grants no
discovery rights to criminal defendants, and, indeed, does
not even provide, defendants with bills of -particulars.'
More significantly, Oregon, unlike Florida, has no provision which requires the State to reveal the names and
addresses of witnesses it plans to use to -refute an alibi
defense.'
We do not suggest that the Due Process Clause of itsown force requires Oregon to adopt such provisions. Cf.

Uizitec States v' Augenblick, 39a 1U. S. 348 (19E,9);
Ciceniav. Lagay, 357 U. S. 504 (1958). But we do hold
that in the absence of a strong showing of state interests
to the contrary, discovery must be a two-way street. The
State jnay not -insist that trials be run as a !'search for
truth" so. far as defense 'witnesses are conceried, while
maintaining f"poker game" secrecy for its owi witnesses.9
7
As the Oregon Court of Appeals has recently pointed out,
"Oregon's criminal code is almost completely lacking in pretrial discovery procedures." State v. Kelsaw, 289 Ore. App. 295, 502 P. 2d
278, 280-281 (1972), pet. for cert. pending, No. 72-6012.
"The only discovery rights Oregon appears to peimit are the
rights to view written statents made by state witnsses and by
the defendant, in the hands of the police. See State v. Foster, 242.
Ore. 101, 407 P. 2d 901 (1965); Ore. Rev. Stat. § 133.750, 133.755.
Cf. State v. Keisaw, supra.
9
1ndeed, the State's inherent information-gathering advantages
suggest that if there is to be any imbalance in discovery rights, it
should work in the defendant's favor. As one comraentator -has
noted:
'9esides greater financial and staff resources with which to investigate and scientifically analyze. evidence, the prosecutor bas a
number of tactical advantages. First, he begins his investigation
shortly after the crime has been committed when physical evidence
is more likely to be found and when" witnesses are more apt to
remember events. Only after the prosecutor has gathered sufficient
evidence is the defendant informed of the chargei against him; by

OCTOBLE-TRiM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

It is fundamentally unfair to require a defendant to
divulge the details of his own case while at the same
time subjecting him to the hazard of surprise concerning
refutation of the, very pieces- of evidence which he disclosed to the State.
Indeed, neither the respondent nor the Oregon Court
of Appeals contests these principles. Nor does the State
,suggest any significant governmental interests which
might support the lack of reciprocity. Instead, respondent has chosen to rest its case on a procedural point.
'While conceding that Oregon law fails .to provide for
reciprocal discovery on -its face, the State contends that
if petitioner had given notice of his alibi defense, the
state courts might have read the Oregon statute as requiring the State to give the petitioner the names and
addresses of stbte witnesses used to refute the alibi defense. Since petitioner failed to give notice, his alibi
defense was not permitted and there were, therefore, no
state rebuttal witnesses whose testimony tended to disprove the alibi. Since no such testimony was introthe time the defendant or his attorney begins any investigation into
the facts of the case, the trail is not only cold, but a diligent prosecutor will have removed much of the -evidence from the field. In
addition to the advantage of timing, the prosecutor may compel
people, including the defendant, to cooperate. The defendant may
be questioned within limits, and if arrested his person may be
searched. He may also be compelled to participate in various nontestimonial identification procedures. The prosecutor may force
third persons to cooperate through the use of grand juries and may
issue subpoenas requiring appearance before prosecutorial investigatory boards.' With probable cause the police may search private
areas and seize evidence and may tap telephone conversations. They
may use undercover agents and have access to vast amounts of information in government tile§. Finally, respect for government authority will cause many people to cooperate with the police or prosecutor
voluntarily when they might not cooperate with The defendant."
Note, Prosecutorial Discovery under Proposed Rule 16, 85 Harv. L.
Rev. 994, 1018-1019 (1972) (footnotes omitted)

WARDIUS v. OREGQN

470"

Opinion of the Court

duced, respondent argues that Oregon's .willingness to
permit reciprocal discovery remains untested. The State.
says, in effect, that petitioner should not b3e permitted to
litigate the reciprocity issue in the abstract in federal court
after bypassing an opportunity to contest the issue concretely before the state judiciary.2
It is, of course, true that the Oregon courts are the final
arbiters of the State's own law, and we. cannot predict
what the state court might have done had it been faced
with a defendant who had given the required notice of
alibi and then sought reciprocal discovery rights. But
it is this very lck of predictability which ultimately
defeats the State's argument. At the time petitioner'vas
forced to decide whether or not to reveal his alibi defense to the prosecution, he had to deal with the statute
as written with no way of knowing how it might sub-,
sequently be interpreted; Nor could he retract the information once provided should it turn out later that
the hoped-for reciprocal discovery rights were not

granted.
For this reason, had petitioner challenged the lack of
reciprocity by giving notice and then demanding discovery, he would have done so at considerable risk. ,To
be sure, 'the state court might have construed the Oregon
""Before this Court, respondent presses the related argument that petitioner failed to object to the exclusion of his
alibi testinony at trial and that his conviction therefore rests on an
independent state prbcedural ground. See Brief for Respondent
5 n. 2. But, as the transcript makes clear, the issue arose whei
the triaf court sustained the State's objection to introduction of the
alibi .testimony. Petitioner then proceeded to make an "offer of
proof" in order to protect the record on appeal. Respondent cites
us to no Oregon caseg which would require petitioner to object to
the sustaining of an objection in this context, and the state alpellate
court's willingness to reach the merits of petitioner's federal claims
provides convincing proof that the judgment does not. rest on adequate state. grounds. See Warden v. Hayden, 987 U. S. 294, 297
n. 3 (1967).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

statutes so as to save the constitutionality of the notic6
requirement and granted reciprocal discovery rights.
But the state court would also have had the option of
reading state law as precluding reciprocal discovery. If
the court adopted this latter-alternative, it would have
had .to strike down the notice-of-albi requirement. But
petitioner would have had only a Pyrrhic victory, since
once having given the State his alibi information, he
cculd not have retracted it. Thus, under this scenario,
even though the notice-of-alibi rule would have been invalidated, the State would still have had the benefit of
nonreciprocal discovery rights in petitioner's case-the
-ery result wiich petitioner wishes to avoid by challenging the, rule.
The statute as written did not provide for reciprocal discovery, and petitioner cannot be faulted for
taking the legislature at its word.1 - Indeed, even at this
stage of the proceedings, the responident, has made no
representation that the $tate would in fact provide reciprocal discovery rights to a defendant who complied ivith
the nptice-of-alibi scheme. Respondent says only that
the State might have granted such rights.12 But the
"Nor did petitioner's attorney rest. entirely on his own reading
of Oregon's discovery provisions. As the attorney argued 'at trial,
"Several weeks ago this came up again-this came up in the Circuit
Court here with Judge Perry, and Judge Perry allowed the alibi
testimony in based upon [Wilhiams v. Florida] and said that he at
that time, based on our statute and based on this opinion, that he
didn't feel that our criminal code and our statute should allow a
substantive evidence [sic] that the defendant might have to be
kept out due to this, and that is the reason that notice was not
given. I relied somewhat upon that and my own interpretation of
this case also." App. 6.
12 The State cites us to tate v. Kelsaw, supra, a recent Oregon
Court of Appeals decision holding that "a defendant must be given
reciprocal information as to the time and place of the alleged offense
before he can be required to comply-with the notice-of-alibi rule. But

WARDIUS v. OREGON
470

DouGLAs, J., concurring in, reult

State cannot constitutionally force compliance with its
scheme on the basis of a totally unsubstantiated possibility that the statute might be read in a manner contrary
to its plain language. Thus, in the absence of fair notice
that h&would have an opportunity to discover the State's
rebuttal witnesses, petitioner cannot be compelled to reveal his alibi defense.
Since the trial court erred 'and since there is a substantial possibility that its error may have infected the
verdict, the conviction must be reversed and the cause
remanaied for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
"(Reversed and remanded.
TuE COiEF JusTcE concurs in' the r~sult.
MR. JusTIcE ]DouGas concurring in the result.
In Williams v. Florida, 399 U. S. 78, 106, I joined
Mr. Justice Black in dissent from that part of the Court's
decision which upheld the constitutionality of Florida's
"notice of alibi" xule. W- concluded that the decision
was "a radical and dangerous departure from the historical and constitutionally guaranteed right of a defendant in a criminal case to remain completely silent,
requiring the Staie to prove its case without any assistance of any kind from the defendant himself." Id., at
108. One need not go far for the textual support for
this position. The .Fifth Ainendment, written with the
inquisitorial practices of the Star Chamber firmly in
mind, provides that" "[njo. perso'n . . . shall be compelled . . to be a witness against himself." It seems
.

merely informing the defendant of the time and place of the crime
'does not approach the sort of reciprocity which due process demands.
Moreover,. in view of the fact that Kelsaw was decided after petitioner's trial, it cannot be suggested that the decision gave him notice
that even this limited reciprocity would 'be granted.

480

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

DouGrns, J., coneuring in result

412 U.S.

difficult to quarrel with the conclusion that a "notice of
alibi" provision contravenes this clear mandate, -for the
State would see no need for the rule unless it believed
that such notice would ease its burden of proving its
case 'or increase the efficiency of its presentation.. In
either case, the defendant has been compelled to aid the
State in his prosecution.
The Court views the growth of "such discovery devices" as a "salutary development" becase it increases
the evidence available to both parties. Ante, at 474.
This development, however, has altered the balance
struck by the Constitution. The Bill of Rights does
not envision an adversary proceeding between two equal.
parties. If that were so, we might well benefit from
procedures patterned after the Rules of the Maquis of
Queensberry. But, the Constitution recognized the awesome power of indictment and the virtually limitless
resources of government investigators. Mudh of the
Bill of Rights is designed to redress the advantage that
inheres n a government prosecution. It is not for
the Court to change that bala~lce. See Wiiams v.
Florida,supra, at 111-114 (Black, J., dissenting).'
I agree with the Court that petitioner's conviction
must be reversed, but for the reasons stated by Mr. Justice Black in his dissent in W77liams. To reverse it because of uncertainty as to the presence of reciprocal discovery is not to take the Constitution as .Written but to
embellish it in the manner of the old masters of substantive due process.

