KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 72-5323. Argued March 27, 1973-Decided May 29, 1973
Petitioner, an Indian, was convicted of assault with intent to commit
serious bodily injury on an Indian reservation, a federal crime
under the Major Crimes Act of 1885, after the court refused to
instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of simple assault.
The Court of Appeals affirmed on the ground that since simple
assault is not one of the offenses enumerated in the Act, it would
be exclusively "a matter for the tribe." Held. An Indian prosecuted in federal court under the Act is entitled to a juiry instruction
on lesser included offenses, if the facts warrant. Such an instruction would not expand the reach of the Act or permit the Government to infringe the residual jurisdiction of the Indian tribes by
bringing in federal court prosecutions not authorized by statute.
Pp. 207-214.
459 F. 2d 757 and 762, reversed and remanded.
BRnNfAw, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BuGEn,
C. J., and DouGLAs, WHrrE, MARSziALL, and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined.
STEwARw,J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which PoWELm and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined, post, p. 215.

Mark V. Meierhenry-argued the cause and filed a
brief for petitioner pro hac vice.
Richard B. 'Stone argued the cause for ihe United
States. On the brief were 'Solicitor General GrIst1old,
Assistant Attorney General Petersen, Deputy Solicitor
General Lacovara,Harry R. Sachse, and Jerome M. Feit.
MR. JUSTICE BR
w delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Major Crimes Act of 1885 ' authorizes the prosecution in federal court of an Indian charged with the conAct of Mar. 3, 1885, c. 341, § 9, 23 Stat. 385, now 18 U. S. C.

§§ 1153,.,3242.

206

OCTOBER TERM, i972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

hnission on an Indian reservation of 'certain specifically

enumerated offenses.2

This case requires us to decide

hether an, Indian prosecuted under the Act is entitled
to a jury instruction on a lesser included offense where
that lesser offense is not one of 'the crines enumerated

in the Act.
At the close of petitioner's trial for assault with intent"

to commit serious bodily injury, the United States District Court for the Ditrict of South Dakota refused to
instruct the jury, s petitioner requested, that they might
convict him of simple assault. The court reaioned that
since simple assault is not an offense enumerated in the
Act, it is exclusively "a matter for the, tribe." App.
15. A panel of the United States Court of Appeals for

the Eighth Circuit, one judge dissenting, upheld that
determination on the

trength .of the court's earlier de-

As originally enacted, the statute provided:
"That immediately upon and after the date of the passage of this
act all Indians, committing against the person or property of another
Indian or other person any of the following crimes, namely,. murder,
manslaughter, rape, assault.with intent tq kill, arson, buiglary, and
larceny within any Territory of the United States, and -either within
or without an Indian reservation, shall be subject thorefor to the
laws of such Territory relating to said crimes, and shall be tried
therefor in the same courts and in the same manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as are all other persons charged With
the commission of said crimes, respectively; and the said courts ari
hereby given jurisdiction in all such cases; and all-such Indians committing any of the above crimes against the person or property of
another Indian or other person within the boundaries of any State
of the Unied States, and within the limits of any Indian reservation,
shall be gubject to the sanie laws, tried in the same courts and iiin
the same manner, and subject to the same penalties as are all other.
persons committing' 1 any of the above crimes within -the exclusivejurisdiction of the United States." 23 Stat. 385.
By successive am'endments, Congress has increased the number of
enumerated crimes from seven to 13, adding carnal knowledge,
assault with intent to commit rape, incest, assauli with a dangerous
weapon, assault resultiig in, serious bodily injury, and robbery.
2

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

Opinion of the. Court

cision in Kils Crow v. United States, 451 F. 2d 323
(1971). 459 F. 2d 757 (1972). Following a remand to
the District Court for a hearing on an unrelated issue,3
the case returned to the Court of Appeals and the conviction was affirmed., Id., at 762 (supplemental opinion):
We granted certiorari liffited to the question of the validity of denying the requested instruction," 409 U. S.
1037 (1972), and we reverse.
.The events that led to the death of petitioner's
brother-in-law, Robert Pomani, and hence to this criminal prosecution, took place on the South Dakota Reservation of the Crow Creek Sioux Tribe. Petitioner and the
deceased, both Indians of that Tribe, spent the evening
of March 6, 1971, drinking and quarreling over petitioner's alleged mistreatment of his wife, Pomani's sister.
The argument soon became *violent, and it ended only
when petitioner, having beaten Pomani severely and left
him bleeding from the head and face, went to bed. The
next morning .he discovered Pomani's lifeless body on
the ground a short distance from the house where the
beating had occurred. He reported the death to an official of the Department of the Interior serving as Captain
of the Tribal Police- at Fort Thompson, South Dakota.
An autopsy revealed that Pomani died because of exposure to excessive cold, although the beating'was a contributing factor. Petitioner was convicted of .assault
with intent to inflict great bodily injury, and sentenced
to five years' imprisonment.
3 The case was remanded to the District Court for a hearing on
the voluntariness of petitioner's confession, in light of the requirements of 18 U. S. C. § 3501. On remand, the District Court concluded that the confession was voluntary, notwithstanding a lapse
of time between petitioner's arrest and his confession..
4The petition for certiorari also asked us to consider the validi.y
of admitting petitioner's confession' in view of the requirements of
Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 5 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Although the lesser included offense doctrine developed
at common law to assist the prosecution in cases where the
evidence failed to establish some element of the offenseoriginally 6harged, it is now beyond dispute that the
defendant is entitled to an instruction on a lesser included
offense if the evidence would permit a jury rationally to
find him guilty of the lesser offense and acquit him of
the greater. The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
deal With lesser included offenses, see Rule 31 (c),1 and the
defendant's right to st~ch an instruction has been recognized in numerous decisions of this Court. "See, e. g.,
Sansone v. United .States, 380 U. S. 343, 349 (1965);
Berra v:United States, 351 U. S. 131, 134 (1956); Stevenson v. United States, 162 U. S. 313 (1896).7
In defending the trial court's refusal to offer the requested instruction, the Government does not dispute
this general proposition, nor does it argue that a lesser
offense instruction was incompatible with the evidence
presented at trial. Cf. Sansone v. United States, supra.;
Sparf v. United Stdtes, 156 U. S. 51, 63-64 (1895).
On the contrary, the Government explicitly concedes
that any non-Indian who had committed this same
act on this same reservation and requested this same
5 See Kell,# v. United States, 125 U. S. App. D. C. 205, 207, 370
F. 2d 227, 229 (1966); United Statesv. Markis, 352 F. 2d 860, 866
•(CA2 1965); 2 C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure-Criminal
§515, p. 372 (1969). "
6 Rule 31 (c) provides that "[tjhe defendant may be found guilty
of an offense necessarily included in the offense charged or bf an
attempt to commit either the offense charged or an offense necessarily included therein if the attempt is an offense." The rule
codified pre-existing law, in particular former § 565 of Tit. 18, Act
of June 1, 1872, §9, 17 Stat. 198. See Berra -.-. United States, 351
U. S. 131, 134 and n. 6 (1956).
7See also, e. g., Government of Virgin Islands v. Carmona, 422
F. 2d 95, 100 (CA3 1970); United States v. Comer, 137 U. S. App.
D. C. 214. 218, 421 F. 2d 1149, 1153 (1970).

.KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

209

Opiniori of the Court

instruction would have been entitled to the jury charge
that petitioner was refused. Brief for the United
States 13 n. 16.8 The Government does maintain, however, that the Major Crimes Act precludes the District
Court from offering a lesser offense instruction on behalf
of an Indian, such as the petitioner before us. Specifically, the Government contends that the Act represents
a carefullyI limited intrusion of federal Power into the
otherwise exclusive jurisdiction of the Indian tribes to
punish Indians for crimes committed on Indian land.
To grant an instruction on the lesser offense of simple
assault would, in the Government's view, infringe the
tribe's residual jurisdiction in a manner inconsistent with
the Act. Under the Government's approach, in other
words, the interests of an individual Indian defendant in
obtaining a jury instruction on a lesser offense must fall
before the congressionally sanctioned interests of the
tribe in preserving its inherent jurisdiction. Since that
conclusion is compelled neither by the language, nor the
purposes, nor the history of the Act, we cannot agree.
The Major Crimes Act was passed by Congress in
direct response to the decision of this Court in Ex parte
Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556 (1883). The Court held there
that a federal court lacked jurisdiction to try an Indian
for the murder of another Indian, a chief of the Brule
Sioux named Spotted Tail, in Indian country. Although
recognizing the power of Congress to confer such jurisdiction on the federal courtsO the Court reasoned that, in
8If a non-Indian had committed this same act on an Indian reservation, he would, of course, be tried in federal court under federal
enclave law. 18 U. S. C. § 1152.
9The constitutionality of the Major Crimes Act was upheld in
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375 (1886), where the Court
rejected the argument that punishment of criminal offenses by Indians
on Indian land is exclusively a state function.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opi ion of the Court

412 U.S.

the absence of explicit congressional direction, the Indian
tribe retained exclusive jurisdiction to punish the offense.
Cf. T.alton v. Mayes, 163 U. S. 376 (1896); Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515 (1832).
The prompt congressional response-conferring jurisdiction on the federal courts to punish certain offensesreflected a view that tribal remedies Were either nonexistent or incompatible with principles that Congress
thought should be co'ntrolling. Representative Cutcheon,
sponsor of the Act, described the events that followed the
reversal by this Court of Crow Dog's conviction:
"Thus Crow Dog went free. He returned to his
reservation, feeling, as the Commissioner says, a
great deal more important than any of the chiefs
of his tribe. The result Wvas that another murder
grew out of that--a murder committed ,by Spotted
Tail, jr., upon White Thunder. And so these
things must go on unless we adopt proper legislation on the subject.
"It is an infamy upon our civilization, a disgrace
to this nation, that there should be anywhere within
its boundaries a body of people who can' with absolute impunity, commit, the crime of murder, there
being no tribunal before which they can be brought
for punishment. Under our present law there is no
penalty that can be inflicted except according to the
custom of the tribe, which is simply that the 'bloodavenger'-that is thie next of kin to the person
murdered-shall pursue the one who has been guilty
of the crime and commit a new murder upon
him....•

"If . . . an Indian commits a crime against an
Indian on an Indian reservation there is now no law
to punish the offense except, as I have said, the

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

.211

Opinion of the bourt

law of the tribe, which is just no law at all." -16
Cong. Rec. 934 (1885).20
The Secretary of the Interi6r, who supported the Act,
struck a similar ntote:
"If offenses of this character [the killing of Spotted
Tail] can not be tried in the courts of the United
States, there is no tribunal in which the crime of
murder can be punished. Minor offenses may be
punished through the agency of the 'court of Indian
offensbs,' but it will hardly do to leave the punishment of the crime of murder to a tribunal that exists
only by. the consent of the Indians of the reservation. If the murderer is left to be punished according to 'the old Indian custom, it becomes the duty of
the next of kin to avenge the death of his relative
by either killing the murderer or some one of his'
kinsmen

....

11

In short, Congress extended federal jurisdiction to
crimes, committed by Indiais on Indian land out of a
conviction that many Indians would "be civilized'a great.
deal sooner by being" put under [federal criminal] laws
and taught to regard life and the personal property of
10The same congressional- purpose is evident in the most recent

amendment to the Act, the 1968 addition to the list of enumerated
crimes of the offense of assault resulting in serious bodily injury. See
S. Rep. No. 721, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 32 (1967):
"Without this amendment an Indian can commit a serious crime and
receive only a maximum sentence of 6 months. Since Indian courts
cannot impose more than a 6-month sentence, the crine of aggravated
assault should be prosecuted in a Federal court, where the punishment will be in proportion .to the gravity of the offense."
"IThe remark, from the'Secretary's annual report, was quoted by
Representative Cutcheon during debate in the House of Representa
tives on the proposed statute. 16 Cong. Rec. 935 (1885).

-212

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

others." 16 Cong. Rec. 936 (1886) (remarks of Rep.
Cutcheon). That is emphatically not to say, however,
that Congress intended to deprive Indian defendants of
procedural rights guaranteed to other defendants, or to
make it easier to convict an Indian than any other defendant. Indeed, the Act expressly provides that Indians
charged under its provisions "shall be tried in the same.
courts, and in the samwe manner, as are all other persons
committing any of the above, crimes within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States." 18 U. S. C. § 3242
(emphasis added)." In the face of that explicit statutory direction, we can hardJy conclude that Congress
intended to disqualify Indians from the benefits of a
-lesser oI~ense instrruction, when those benefits are made
available to any non-Indian charged with the same
offense.
Moreover, it is no answer to petitioner's demand for
a jury instruction on a lesser offanse to argue that a
defendant may be better off without such an instruction. 'True, if the prosecution has not established beyond
a reasonable doubt every element of the offense charged,
and if no lesser offense instruction is offered, the jury
must, as a theoretical matter,.return a verdict of acquittal.
But a defendant is entitled to a lesser offense instruction-in this context or any other-precisely because he
should not be expoied to the sqbstantial risk that the
jury's practice will diverge from theory. Where one of
1

2In making the most recent amendment to the Major Crimes Act,
see n.10, supra, Congress neglected to add the offense of assault
resulting in serious bodily injury to both of the sections in which
the Act- is now codified. The Government concedes that the failure
to add this new offense to the list of those enumerated in 18 U. S. C.
§ 3242 is "probably a congressional oversight." Brief for the United
States 18 n. 17. In any case, Congress plainly did not intefid t6
provide a special rule for the trial of Indians charged with assault
resultini, in serious bodily injury.

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

Opinion of the Court

the elements of the offense charged remains in doubt,
but the defendant is plainly guilty of some offense, the
jury is likely to resolve its doubts in favor of aonviction.
In the case before us, for example, an intent to commit
serious bodily injury is a necessary element of the crime
with which petitioner was charged, but not of the crime
of simple assault. Since the nature of petitioner's intent was very much in dispute at trial, the jury could
rationally have convicted him of simple assult if that
option had been presented. But the jury was presented
with only two options: convicting the defendant of assault with intent to commit great bodily' injury; or
acquitting him outright. We cannot say that the availability of a third option-convicting the defendant of
simple assault-could not have resulted in a different
verdict. Ihdeed, while we have never explicitly held
tha the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment
guarantees the right of a defendant to have the jury instructed on a lesser included offense, it is nevertheless
clear that a construction of the Major Crimes Act to
preclude such an instruction would raise difficult constitutional questions. In view of our interpretation of
the Act, those are questions that we need not face.1s
13

Similarly, in view of our conclusion thai the trial court erred
in denying the requested instruction, we need not decide whether
an apparent defect in-the indictment-a defect to which petitioner,.
did not object-provides an independent ground for reversal. The
Major Crimes Act provides that an Indian. may be tried in federal
court for the offense of assault resulting in serious bodily injury.
The statute further provides that this offense "shall be defined and
punished in accordance with the laws of the State in which such
offense was committed." Petitioner was not charged, however, with
assault resulting in serious bodily injury, but rather with assault with
intent to commit serious bodily injury. See S. D. Comp. Laws Ann.
§22-18-12 (1967). The South Dakota criminal code does not
specifically p:oscribe the offense of assault resulting in serious bodily
injury. Whether the prosecution should have been required to prove

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Finally, we emphasize that our decision today neither
expands the reach of the Major Crimes Act nor permits
the Government to infringe the residual jurisdiction of
a tribe by bringing prosecutions in federal court that
are not authorized by statute.P We hold only that where
an Indian is prosecuted in federal court under the provisions of the Act, the Act does not require that he be
deprived of the protection afforded by An instruction on*
a lesser included offense, assuming of course that the*
evidence warrants such an instruction. "No interest of"
a -tribe is jeopardized by this decision. Accordingly,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and thecase is'remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.

Reversed and remanded.
not only that the petitioner intended to commit serious bodily injury,
bqt also that the assault resulted in serious bodily injury, is a question we 4o not. now decide.
' 4 The Govirment argues tha%-"[tJhe ruling petitioner seeks
would, under the principle of mutuality, empower federal prosecutors,
dissatisfied with the- leniency of tribal courts, to prosecute in mar,ginal 'cases, knowing that if the major -offense is not proved the
penalty for the minor offense would be more substanfial than in
the tribal courts." Brief for the United States 22. The lower courts
Jiave often held that a defendant is entitled to an instructiqn on a
lesser included offense only in circumstances where the "prosecution
could also ask for such an instruction. See, e. g., Kelly v. United
States, 125 U. S. App. D. C. 2051 207, 370 F. 2d 227, 229 (1966).
That is the principle of mutuality to which the Government refers.
Nevertheless, Judge Wilkey, speaking for a panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, recently concluded that
"despite the patina of antiquity, considerations of justice and good
judicial administration warrant dispensing with mutuality as an essential prerequisite.to the defense's right to a lesser included offense
charge." United States v. Whitaker, 144 U. S. App. D. C. 344, 351,
447 F. 2d 314, 321 (1971). Whether that conclusion is sound, at least
in the special situation presented by the case before us, is a question
that we need not now decide.

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

STswAir, J., dissenting

M. JusTICE STwART, with whom MR. JUSTICE
Pow.xL and MU. JusTIcE RaHwQUIST join, dissenting.
As the opinion of the Court demonstrates, the Major
Crines Act, 18 U. S. C. §§ 1153, 3242, was enacted in
response to this Court's decision in Ex parte Crow Dog,
109 U. S. 556. The Act conferred jurisdiction upon "federal district courts over certain -enumeratedcrimes committed by Indian's on an Indian reservation, leaving tribal
'jurisdiction intact as to all other crimes. An Indian
tried in a federal court under the Act is guaranteed equal'
procedural rights, 18 U. S. C. § 3242, including.the benefits and burdens of Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 31 (c), dealing
with a lesser included offense.
In these respects, I agree with the Court. But" the
Court goes on to hold "that where an Indian is prosecuted
in federal court under the provisions of the Act, the
Act does not require that he be deprived of the protection afforded by an instruction on a lesser included offense. . . ." Ante, at 214. I think this holding would
be correct only if ihe lesser included offense were one
over which the federal court had jurisdiction. Because
the trial court did not have jurisdiction over the "lesser
included offense" in the present case, I must respectfully
dissent.,,
It is a commonplace that federal courts are courts of
limited jurisdiction, and that there are no common-law
ofienses against the United States. "The legislative authority of the Union must first make an act a crime, affix
a punishment to it, and declare thWe Court that shall have
jurisdiction of the offence." United States v. Hudson,
7 Cranch 32, 34. "It is axiomatic that s,atutes creating
and defining crimes cannot be extended by intendment,
and that no act, however wrongful, can be' punished
under such a statute unless clearly within its terms."
2The Court does not reach any other possible ground for reversing
this conviction, and, accordingly, neither do I.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
STEWART, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 278, 282. See 1 J.
Moore, Federal Practice If 0.60 [7]. And it is also clear
-hat simple assault by an Indian on an Indian reservation, the purported "lesser included offense" in this case,
comes within no federal jurisdictional statute. The
Court in effect holds that Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 31 (c)
implioitly operates to confer federal jurisdiction over simple assault in the circumstances of this case, and with all
respect this seems to me a holding utterly without
support.
The Rule states that:
"The defendant may be found guilty of an offense
necessarily included in the offense charged or of an
attempt to commit either the offense charged or
an offense necessarily included therein if the attempt
is an offense." (Emphasis added.)
The Rule is thus phrased in terms of "offenses." It
seems to me clear that "offense" means federal offense,
an this view is confirmed by the fact that by virtue of
the Rule a lesser included offense instruction is authorized
with respect to "an attempt" only where the attempt
itself is also a federal crime.
The conclusion that a lesser included offense instruction is possible only when the lesser offense is within
federal jurisdiction does not violate 18 U. S. C. § 3242,
providing that Indians charged under its provisions "shall
be tried in the same courts, and in the same manner, as
are all other persons committing any of the above crimes
within the exclusive .jurisdiction of the United States."
For this conclusion would apply as well in any- instance
where Congress has established a divided criminal jurisdiction between a federal district court and another
forum. See, e. g., DeFlumer v. Mancusi, 443 F. 2d 940
(criminal jurisdiction in federal district court over 16year-old defendants only when charged with certain
enumerated crimes). Congress established jurisdiction

KEEBLE v. UNITED STATES
205

STwART, J., dissenting

in thb federal district courts only over certain specifically
enumerated offenses committed by Indians on Indian
reservations.

It vested a residual jurisdiction in other

forums over all other offenses.

Accordingly, I conclude

'that a lesser included offense instruction would have been

improper in the present case, where the federal court had
no jurisdiction over the lesser offense of simple assault.2
See Kills Crow v. United States, 451 F. 2d'323, 325.

The Court seems to agree that a 'United States Attorney could not seek an indictment in a federal district

court of an Indian for simple assault
Indian reservation. . This being so, I
for concluding that jurisdiction comes
by motion of the defense. "It needs

committed on an
can find no basis
into being simply
no-citation of au-

thorities to show that the mere consent of parties cannot
confer upon a court of the United States the jurisdiction

to hear and decide a case." •People's Bank v. Calhoun,
102 U. S. 256, 260-261. See also 1 J. Moore, Federal
Practice If 0.60 [4]. Were the petitioner's motion for an
instruction on simple assault to be granted, and were a
jury to convict on that offense, I should have supposed
until the Court's decision today that the conviction could
have been set aside, for want of jurisdiction.
2 The petitioner was not charged with "assault resulting in serious
bodily injury," the offense specified in the*Major Crimes Act, but
instead with -assault with intent to commit seriou bodily injurr,
S. D. Comp. Laws Ann. § 22-18-12 (1967). This was apparently because the Major Crimes Act provides that "assault resulting in seriois
bodily injury" is to be "defined and punished in accordance with
the laws of the State in which such offense was committed." Since
South Dakota appears to have no statute identically matching tle
offense described in the Major Crimes Act, § 22-18-12 of the South
Dakota Laws was relied upon to prosecute the offense charged her. .
See also Kills Crow v. United States, 451 F. 2d 323. In a case wheie
no serious bodily injury occurred, a defendant might well argue that
his prosecution under this state law definition is no more under the
jurisdiction of a federal district court than would be a prosecution
for simple assault.

