THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
I

Statement of the Case.

hand, so as practically to make unjust and illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances" (Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, 373-374), it is the same as if
the invidious discrimination were incorporated in the law
itself. If the action of the Illinois Board in effect were
the same as an Illinois law that Snowden could not run for
office, it would run afoul of the equal protection clause
whether that discrimination were based on the fact that
Snowden was a Negro, Catholic, Presbyterian, Free Mason,
or had some other characteristic or belief which the authorities did not like. Snowden should be allowed the opportunity to make that showing no matter how thin his
chances of success may seem.

THOMSON, TRUSTEE OF THE PROPERTY OF
THE CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY
CO., v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 70. Argued December 7, 1943-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. In respect of operations by motor vehicle in a coordinated railmotor freight service-the motor vehicles being operated by
contractors under arrangements described in the opinion-only the
railroad was a "common carrier by motor vehicle" entitled to
"grandfather" rights under § 206 (a) of Part II of the Interstate
Commerce Act, since it alone held itself out to the general public
to engage in such service. P. 23.

2. The Commission's so-called "control and responsibility" test, so
far as it leads to a different result, is disapproved. P. 26.
Reversed.
APPEAL from

a decree of a District Court of three judges,
dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, 31 M. C. C. 299.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Mr. Nye F. Morehouse, with whom Messrs. William T.
Fancy and P. F. Gault were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Edward Dumbauld, Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W.
Knowlton, and Allen Crenshaw were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This direct appeal from a statutory three-judge district
court involves important problems relating to "grandfather" rights to a certificate as a common carrier by motor
vehicle in a single coordinated rail-motor freight service.
The final decree of that court dismissed appellant's petition to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, 31 M. C. C. 299. The Commission's order
had denied to the Chicago and North Western Railway
Company, of which appellant is trustee, a certificate of
public convenience and necessity as a common carrier by
motor vehicle under the so-called "grandfather clause"
of § 206 (a) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act,

49 U. S. C. § 306 (a).
The essential facts are clear. The Chicago and North
Western Railway Company, hereinafter referred to as
the railroad, has extensive mileage in nine western states
and is a large carrier of freight in less than carload lots.
Prior to and since the statutory "grandfather" date of
June 1, 1935, it has supplemented its rail freight service
by providing motor vehicle service between various freight
stations on its rail lines. There are twenty-three such
motor vehicle routes on highways parallel with and
roughly adjacent to the railroad's lines. The motor trucks
transport less than carload lots of freight in complete coordination with the rail service. The railroad instituted

THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

this additional method of transportation in order to furnish an improved and more convenient freight service to
the public in certain areas of light traffic and in order to
curtail car mileage and way-freight service. Motor vehicle transportation, in other words, is merely a new
method of carrying on part of its all-rail freight business
in which it had been engaged for many years.
The railroad has consistently held itself out to the
general public and to shippers as being engaged in this
coordinated rail-motor freight service. It solicits all the
freight transported by the trucks operating as part of this
unified service and its bills of lading and tariffs are used
throughout. The shipper does not know in a specific
instance whether his freight will be shipped entirely by
rail or partly by motor vehicle. But he is informed by
the railroad's tariffs that the railroad at its option may
substitute motor vehicle service for rail service between
stations on its lines and that the charges in such a case
are the same as would be applicable for all-rail service.
In so substituting motor vehicle service, the railroad has
not deemed it advisable to purchase or lease motor trucks
or employ its own personnel in such operations. Instead
it has entered into written contracts for this service with
motor vehicle operators who also serve customers other
than the railroad. But the railroad at all times maintains
direct and complete control of the movement and handling of its freight by these operators. It fixes the truck
schedules so as to coordinate them with the rail schedules
and designates the amount and particular shipments of
freight to be moved. The motor vehicle operators issue
no billing of any kind and solicit none of the freight transported for the railroad. They have no contractual or
other relationships with either the shippers or the receivers of the freight. Their trucks are loaded at the
freight stations by railroad employees, sometimes assisted
by the truck drivers. After a truck is loaded a manifest

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

is issued by the railroad's agent, which is signed by the
truck driver; upon delivery of the freight to the other
railroad freight station the manifest is signed by another
railroad agent, thus releasing the motor vehicle operator.
The written contracts describe the operators as "independent contractors" and state that "nothing herein contained shall be construed as inconsistent with that
status." The contractors are bound by these contracts
to provide vehicles of a type satisfactory to the railroad for
the purpose of transporting freight between certain specified freight stations in accordance with such schedules and
instructions as shall be given by the railroad. The contractors agree to transport such freight as the railroad
designates in a manner satisfactory to the railroad. All
persons operating the motor vehicles are under the employment and direction of the contractors and are not considered railroad employees. The operations are conducted
under the contractors' own names and the vehicles do not
display the railroad's name. The contractors further
agree to comply with state, federal and municipal laws and
to indemnify the railroad against any failure or default in
this respect. They also agree to indemnify the railroad
against all loss or damage of any kind resulting from the
operation of the motor vehicles. The railroad is authorized to maintain for its own protection public liability and
property damage insurance on all the vehicles at the contractors' expense up to a specified amount. Finally, the
contiacts provide that in the event that the highways
between any of the stations become impassable the contractors shall immediately notify the railroad so that it
can arrange and substitute other service if it desires.
With respect to these operations, the Commission found
that the railroad did not operate motor vehicles "either
as owner or under lease or any other equivalent arrangement." The contract provisions were found to "establish

THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

that the motor vehicles are to be supplied by the contractors and operated under their direction and control
and under their responsibility to the general public as
well as to the shippers. It is clear, therefore, that the
motor-vehicle operations have been and are those of others
as common carriers by motor vehicle in their own right
and not those of applicant." The Commission accordingly
denied the railroad's "grandfather" application. The district court dismissed without opinion the railroad's suit
to set aside and enjoin the Commission's order, after finding that the order was lawful and was supported by substantial evidence.
In light of these undisputed facts, however, we hold that
the Commission erred in finding that the railroad was not
entitled to a certificate as a common carrier by motor
vehicle. This error arises not from a lack of substantial
evidence to support its conclusion or from an improper
exercise of its discretion. Rather it is due to an incorrect application to these facts of the statutory provisions
and Congressional intention relating to "grandfather"
rights of common carriers by motor vehicle.
Under the "grandfather" clause of § 206 (a) of Part II
of the Interstate Commerce Act, a certificate of public
convenience and necessity can be awarded only to one
who is a "common carrier by motor vehicle" within the
meaning of the Act. Originally the term "common carrier by motor vehicle" was defined to include any person
who undertakes, "whether directly or by a lease or any
other arrangement," to transport passengers or property
for the general public by motor vehicle.' For purposes
of clarity, however, this language was stricken and the
term was redefined by Congress in 1940 to include any person "which holds itself out to the general public to engage
§ 203 (a) (14) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 543, 544.
576281-44----6

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

in the transportation by motor vehicle" of passengers or
property.2
In addition, as we pointed out in United States v. Rosenblum Truck Lines, 315 U. S. 50, 53, 54, "We think it clear
that Congress did not intend to grant multiple 'grandfather' rights on the basis of a single transportation service." Thus where a person holds himself out to the general
public to engage in a single transportation service, consisting entirely or partly of motor vehicle operations, he
is a "common carrier by motor vehicle" within the contemplation of the statute. And Congress intended that
he alone should receive "grandfather" rights on the basis
of that single service under § 206 (a) of the Act.
The undisputed facts here disclose that only the railroad holds itself out to the general public to engage in a
single complete freight transportation service to and from
all points on its lines. As an integral and essential part
of this service tendered by the railroad, motor vehicle
transportation between certain stations is provided. It
is completely synchronized with the rail service and has
none of the elements of an independent service offered
on behalf of the motor vehicle operators. Their operations are the operations offered by the railroad as component parts, not as separate or distinct segments, of its
single service. They may be replaced or eliminated at
the sole discretion of the railroad.
The railroad, furthermore, is actively engaged in providing this single coordinated service. As to the motor
vehicle operations supplementing its rail service, it is
not a mere freight broker or forwarder. Cf. Acme Fast
Freight v. United States, 30 F. Supp. 968, affirmed 309
§ 203 (a) (14) as amended by the Transportation Act of 1940, 54
Stat. 898, 920. No change in the legislative intent with respect to the
definition of common carriers by motor vehicle of the type involved
in this case was evidenced by this amendment. See 86 Cong. Rec.
11546.
2

THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
19

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 638; O'Malley v. UnitedStates,38 F. Supp. 1; Moore
v. United States, 41 F. Supp. 786, affirmed 316 U. S. 642.
Nor can it be described as the consignor or consignee of
the freight so transported by motor vehicle. Cf. Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444. The provisions and actual operation of the contracts with the
operators demonstrate the railroad's rigid control over
the movement of the freight and its retention of full
responsibility to the shippers. The operators are "independent" only by grace of contract nomenclature. By
any realistic test they are mere aids in carrying out a part
of the railroad's coordinated rail-motor freight service.
Thus the railroad clearly is undertaking to transport
freight by an "other arrangement," as those words are used
in the original statutory definition of "common carrier
by motor vehicle." Cf. Chairman Eastman's concurring
opinion in Missouri Pacific R. Co. Common Carrier
Application, 22 M. C. C. 321, 333. Even more clearly,
under the amended definition, the railroad is holding
itself out to the general public to engage in the transportation of freight by motor vehicle as part of its coordinated rail-motor freight service. In short, it is a common
carrier by motor vehicle within the meaning of the Act.
And the application of the Congressional intention not
to grant multiple "grandfather" rights in such a situation
becomes clear. The railroad alone is entitled to common
carrier "grandfather" rights as to the motor vehicle service forming an integral part of its unified freight service.
Any other conclusion would authorize the wholesale
granting of twenty-three "grandfather" permits to the
various motor vehicle operators on the basis of this single
transportation service offered by the railroad-a result
which ascribes to Congress "an intent incompatible with
its purpose of regulation." United States v. Rosenblum
Truck Lines, supra, 54. We need not decide whether
these operators are entitled to "grandfather" permits as

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

26

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

to other freight transported over their routes. But only
the railroad acquired "grandfather" rights as to the
freight which they transport as an integral part of the
railroad's coordinated rail-motor service.
The Commission has taken the view that only one certificate can be granted on the basis of a single transportation service and that the "common carrier by motor
vehicle" entitled to the certificate is the one who exercises
direction and control of the motor vehicle operations and
assumes full responsibility therefor both to shippers and
the general public. This so-called "control and responsibility" test, however, is applicable in this case only insofar as it aids in determining the person offering and
engaging in the single coordinated rail-motor freight
service. To the extent that it leads to a result different
from that reached by the application of the statutory provisions and the Congressional intent which we have
indicated, it must be disapproved.
The judgment of the court below is reversed. The case
is remanded to that court with directions to remand it to
the Commission for such further proceedings, consistent
with this opinion, as may be appropriate.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE JACKSON is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
MR.

JUsTICE

DouGLAs, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting:
One who arranges for another to do some hauling for
him may or may not enter the hauling business. The
question whether the one or the other is the entrepreneur
has occupied the courts from an early day. Holmes,
Agency (1891), 5 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 15-16. The Commission has drawn upon that body of law concerning independent contractors for the purpose of determining

THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

19

whether in case of line-haul transportation the carrier
dealing directly with the shipper or the one performing
the actual motor transportation was the common carrier
entitled to grandfather rights under the Act. That is to
say it has held, and consistently so, that the carrier which
exercised direction and control of the actual motorvehicle operations and assumed responsibility therefor to
shippers and to the general public was the one who was
in "operation" during the specified period as a "common
carrier by motor vehicle" within the meaning of the
grandfather clause. § 206 (a). That test has been applied whether the carrier dealing directly with the shippers was a common carrier by motor vehicle (Dixie Ohio
Express Co., 17 M. C. C. 735, 738-741; J. T. O'Malley,
23 M. C. C. 276, 279) or a common carrier by rail. Willett
Company of Indiana, Inc., 21 M. C. C. 405, 408; Missouri
Pacific R. Co., 22 M. C. C. 321, 326-327. It has been
applied after as well as before the 1940 amendment.1
Boston & Maine Transportation Co., 30 M. C. C. 697,
704-705. And in applying the test to railroad applicants
it has placed them on a parity with motor vehicle applicants. Boston & Maine Transportation Co., supra. And
see Crooks Terminal Warehouse, 34 M. C. C. 679. There
have been disagreements within the Commission whether
particular applicants satisfy the test. Missouri Pacific
R. Co., supra;Boston & Maine Transportation Co., supra.
But there has been no disagreement over the propriety
of the control and responsibility test itself.
The control and responsibility test provides a fair measure of the grandfather rights. He who shows that he has
been and is an independent contractor has established his
claim to the transportation business as clearly as any connecting carrier. The fact that the transportation service
offered is closely integrated and held out to the public
1 See note

2, infra.

28

OCTOBER TERM\,

1943.

DouwALs, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

as such does not mean that segments of the line-haul operation may not comprise separate enterprises. To attach grandfather rights to the separate segments is not to
grant multiple rights. It is to allow those rights to follow ownership of the enterprise. I see no other way to
effectuate the Congressional policy of preserving through
the grandfather clause the position which motor vehicle
operators "struggled to obtain in our national transportation system." United States v. CarolinaFreight Carriers
Corp., 315 U. S. 475, 488. To conclude that the present
arrangement is a mere agency is to disagree with the Commission in its application of the control and responsibility
test. To rest grandfather rights on the integrated railmotor service which appellant offers the public is to grant
it rights based on another man's business. To grant appellant these grandfather rights on the basis of a holding
out is to give to the 1940 amendment an effect which Congress concededly did not intend.2 I do not believe that
2Prior to 1940 the Act defined "common carrier by motor vehicle"
as one who "undertakes, whether directly or by a lease or any other
arrangement, to transport passengers or property," etc. § 203 (a)

(14). The Transportation Act of 1940 amended that definition. It
provided, so far as material here, that a "common carrier by motor
vehicle" was "any person which holds itself out to the general public
to engage in the transportation by motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce of passengers or property." As the opinion of the

Court states, that amendment made no change as respects common
carriers of the type involved in this case. It had the "sole purpose
of eliminating carriers performing pick-up, delivery, and transfer
service." 86 Cong. Rec. 11546. And see Boston & Maine Transportation Co., supra, 703-705. The grandfather clause contained in
§ 206 (a) provides for the issuance of a certificate without proof of
public convenience and necessity, if the carrier "was in bona fide
operation as a common carrier by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935, over
the route or routes or within the territory for which application is
made and has so operated since that time."
Thus after as well as before the 1940 amendment the basic question in this type of case was whether the connecting carrier was in

TENNANT v. PEORIA & P. IT. RY. CO.
19

29

Counsel for Parties.

Congress intended to put applicants such as appellant in
a preferred position.
Since there is concededly sufficient evidence to support
the findings of the Commission on the control and responsibility test, I would affirm the judgment below.
TENNANT, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PEORIA &
PEKIN UNION RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued December 15, 1943.-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. In this suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover
for the death of an employee, there was evidence from which the
jury could reasonably infer that failure to ring the bell before
starting the locomotive was negligence of the defendant and that
that negligence was the proximate cause of the death; and a judgment for the defendant notwithstanding a verdict for the plaintiff
deprived the latter of the right to trial by jury. P. 33.
2. A court is not free to reweigh the evidence and set aside the jury
verdict merely because the jury could have drawn different inferences or conclusions, or because the court regards another result
as more reasonable. P. 35.
134 F. 2d 860, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 721, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. William H. Allen, with whom Mr. Mark D. Eagleton was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Eugene E. Horton for respondent.
"bona fide operation" as such a carrier. If it was an independent
contractor it was engaged in such "operation"; if it was performing
a transportation service as a mere agent for the carrier with whom
the shipper dealt, it was not. Boston & Maine Transportation Co.,
supra.

