OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

632

Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

market price or value at the wellhead in excess of 3 cents,
must be resolved against them. I think that the courts'
conclusion is correct; that they properly applied the summary judgment procedure, and that the judgment should
be affirmed.
MIR.

JUSTICE REED

joins in this dissent.

BOSTON TOW BOAT CO. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 385. Argued March 1, 2, 1944.-Decided April 3, 1944.
Appellant's interest in the outcome of a proceeding in which the
District Court dismissed a petition to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, held insufficient to entitle it
to take a separate appeal from the judgment. Judicial Code, § 210,
as amended. P. 633.
Appeal dismissed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of a district court of three

judges, 53 F. Supp. 349, which dismissed a petition to set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. CharlesS. Bolster, with whom Mr. Albert T. Gould
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, and Edward M. Reidy were on the brief, for the United States
et al.; Mr. ChristopherE. Heckman argued the cause, and
Mr. James A. Martin was on the brief, for the National
Water Carriers Association, Inc.,-appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant, Boston Tow Boat Company, was an intervenor in the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce

BOSTON TOW BOAT CO. v. U. S.
632

Opinion of the Court.

Commission leading to the Commission's decision against
the Cornell Steamboat Company which we today have
held was properly sustained by the District Court. Cornell Steamboat Co. v. United States, post, p. 634. When
Cornell attacked the Commission's order in the District
Court, Boston again intervened. 53 F. Supp. 349. Its
petition for intervention, granted by the District Court,
alleged that it operated tugboats in and about Boston
harbor which rendered services somewhat similar to those
rendered by Cornell in New York harbor; that Division 4
of the Commission had held it, Boston, covered by the
Act; that it was aggrieved by the Commission's decision
against Cornell "insofar as said decision holds that towers
for hire are carriers and subject to the terms and provisions of Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act"; and
that it desired to participate in the District Court proceedings "solely for the purpose of asserting . . . its said
contentions regarding such jurisdictional issue." Boston's petition did not allege, and the record fails to show,
that it had any financial interest in Cornell, or was engaged in competition with Cornell, or that its interests
would be adversely affected by a decision against Cornell
except insofar as that decision might establish a precedent
holding tugboats subject to the Commission's jurisdiction
under Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act. Boston's
brief in this Court asserts that it has pending in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts a suit to
enjoin and set aside the Commission's order holding Boston covered by the Act. In its brief Boston expressly
seeks to reserve the right to contend in the Massachusetts proceeding "that the facts underlying its own towing
operations are such as to bring the question of its status
outside the scope of that of a carrier."
We are of opinion that Boston's interest in the outcome
of the Cornell litigation is insufficient to entitle it to take a
separate appeal. See Judicial Code, §§ 210, 212, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

amended, 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 45a. Whether Boston had
sufficient interest to intervene as of right before the Commission and in the District Court we need not decide, the
issue here being only whether Boston has such an "independent right which is violated" by the decision against
Cornell as will support an independent appeal. Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281 U. S. 249, 255.
Clearly it has not. See Edward Hines Trustees v. United
States, 263 U. S. 143; The ChicagoJunction Case,264 U. S.
258, 266-269; Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United States,
supra; Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. Co. v. United
States, 281 U. S. 479, 486-488; Moffat Tunnel League v.
UnitedStates, 289 U. S. 113; cf. Kansas City SouthernRy.
Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 760; L. Singer & Sons v.
Union PacificR. Co., 311 U. S. 295.
Appeal dismissed.
CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 384. Argued March 1, 2, 1944.-Decided April 3, 1944.
Appellant operated tugboats for hire in and about New York harbor
and on the Hudson River. The tugboats carried no cargo but
towed cargo vessels belonging to others. Operations were between
New York and New Jersey, but mostly between points in New
York and other points in the same State. Held:
1. Appellant was a "water carrier" within the meaning of Part
III of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 636.
2. The finding of the Interstate Commerce Commission that
appellant was a "common carrier by water," within the meaning
of § 302 (d) of the Act, is supported by substantial evidence and
is sustained. P. 637.
3. Under § 302 (i) (1) of the Act, which defines "interstate
transportation" as including transportation "wholly by water
from a place in a State to a place in another State," appellant's

