332

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

321 U. S.

J. I. CASE CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENT3H: CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued January 3, 1944.-Decided February 28, 1944.
1. In view of the continuing character of the obligation imposed on
the employer by the order of the National Labor Relations Board,
the subsequent expiration of the contracts in question and the
employer's entry into a collective bargaining agreement did not
render the case moot. P. 334.
2. That an employer has individual contracts of employment, covering wages, hours and working conditions, with a majority of his employees, which contracts were valid when made and are unexpired,
does not preclude exercise by the employees of their right under the
National Labor Relations Act to choose a representative for collective
bargaining nor warrant refusal by the employer to bargain with such
representative in respect of terms covered by the individual contracts. P. 339.
The relation in general of individual contracts to collective bargaining is discussed.
3. The Board has no power to adjudicate the validity or effect of the
contracts here in question, except as to their effect on matters within
its jurisdiction. P. 340.
4. Since the desist order literally goes beyond what the Board intended, its language is modified accordingly. P. 341.
134 F. 2d 70, modified and affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 210, to review a decree which

granted enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations Board, 42 N. L. R. B. 85.
Mr. Clark M. Robertson, with whom Messrs. John C.
Gall, Ben T. Reidy, and Howard R. Johnson were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. Valentine Brookes, Robert B. Watts, and
Jacob L Karro, and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief,
for respondent.

J. I. CASE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
332

333

Opinion of the Court.

AIR. JUSTICFE JACKSOiq delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause was heard by the National Labor Relations
Board on stipulated facts which so far as concern present
issues are as follows:
The petitioner, J. I. Case Company, at its Rock Island,
Illinois, plant, from 1937 offered each employee an individual contract of employment. The contracts were
uniform and for a term of one year. The Company agreed
to furnish employment as steadily as conditions permitted, to pay a specified rate, which the Company might redetermine if the job changed, and to maintain certain
hospital facilities. The employee agreed to accept the provisions, to serve faithfully and honestly for the term, to
comply with factory rules, and that defective work should
not be paid for. About 75% of the employees accepted
and worked under these agreements.
According to the Board's stipulation and finding, the execution of the contracts was not a condition of employment, nor was the status of individual employees affected
by reason of signing or failing to sign the contracts. It
is not found or contended that the agreements were coerced, obtained by any unfair labor practice, or that they
were not valid under the circumstances in which they
were made.
While the individual contracts executed August 1, 1941
were in effect, a C. I. 0. union petitioned the Board for
certification as the exclusive bargaining representative of
the production and maintenance employees. On December 17, 1941 a hearing was held, at which the Company
urged the individual contracts as a bar to representation
proceedings. The Board, however, directed an election,
which was won by the union. The union was thereupon certified as the exclusive bargaining representative
of the employees in question in respect to wages, hours,
and other conditions of employment.

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

The union then asked the Company to bargain. It
refused, declaring that it could not deal with the union in
any manner affecting rights and obligations under the
individual contracts while they remained in effect. It
offered to negotiate on matters which did not affect rights
under the individual contracts, and said that upon the
expiration of the contracts it would bargain as to all matters. Twice the Company sent circulars to its employees
asserting the validity of the individual contracts and
stating the position that it took before the Board in reference to them.
The Board held that the Company had refused to bargain collectively, in violation of ยง 8 (5) of the National
Labor Relations Act; and that the contracts had been
utilized, by means of the circulars, to impede employees
in the exercise of rights guaranteed by ยง 7 of the Act, with
the result that the Company had engaged in unfair labor
practices within the meaning of ยง 8 (1) of the Act. It
ordered the Company to cease and desist from giving
effect to the contracts, from extending them or entering
into new ones, from refusing to bargain and from interfering with the employees; and it required the Company to
give notice accordingly and to bargain upon request.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, with modification not in
issue here, granted an order of enforcement. The issues
are unsettled ones important in the administration of the
Act, and we granted certiorari. In doing so we asked
counsel, in view of the expiration of the individual contracts and the negotiation of a collective contract, to discuss whether the case was moot. In view of the continuing
character of the obligation imposed by the order we think
it is not, and will examine the merits.
Contract in labor law is a term the implications of which
must be determined from the connection in which it appears. Collective bargaining between employer and the
representatives of a unit, usually a union, results in an

J. I. CASE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
332

Opinion of the Court.

accord as to terms which will govern hiring and work and
pay in that unit. The result is not, however, a contract
of employment except in rare cases; no one has a job by
reason of it and no obligation to any individual ordinarily
comes into existence from it alone. The negotiations
between union and management result in what often
has been called a trade agreement, rather than in a contract of employment. Without pushing the analogy too
far, the agreement may be likened to the tariffs established
by a carrier, to standard provisions prescribed by supervising authorities for insurance policies, or to utility schedules of rates and rules for service, which do not of themselves establish any relationships but which do govern the
terms of the shipper or insurer or customer relationship
whenever and with whomever it may be established.
Indeed, in some European countries, contrary to American
practice, the terms of a collectively negotiated trade agreement are submitted to a government department and if
approved become a governmental regulation ruling employment in the unit.'
After the collective trade agreement is made, the individuals who shall benefit by it are identified by individual
hirings. The employer, except as restricted by the collective agreement itself and except that he must engage in
no unfair labor practice or discrimination, is free to select
those he will employ or discharge. But the terms of the
employment already have been traded out. There is little
left to individual agreement except the act of hiring. This
hiring may be by writing or by word of mouth or may be
implied from conduct. In the sense of contracts of hiring,
individual contracts between the employer and employee
1See Hamburger, The Extension of Collective Agreements to
Cover Entire Trade and
Review 153; Methods of
Workers' Organizations,
tional Labour Conference,

Industries (1939) 40 International Labor
Collaboration between Public Authorities,
and Employers' Organizations (Interna1940) p. 112.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

are not forbidden, but indeed are necessitated by the collective bargaining procedure.
But, however engaged, an employee becomes entitled
by virtue of the Labor Relations Act somewhat as a third
party beneficiary to all benefits of the collective trade
agreement, even if on his own he would yield to less favorable terms. The individual hiring contract is subsidiary
to the terms of the trade agreement and may not waive
any of its benefits, any more than a shipper can contract
away the benefit of filed tariffs, the insurer the benefit
of standard provisions, or the utility customer the benefit
of legally established rates.
Concurrent existence of these two types of agreement
raises problems as to which the National Labor Relations
Act makes no express provision. We have, however, held
that individual contracts obtained as the result of an unfair labor practice may not be the basis of advantage to
the violator of the Act nor of disadvantage to employees.
National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350. But
it is urged that where, as here, the contracts were not unfairly or unlawfully obtained, the court indicated a contrary rule in LaborBoard v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U. S. 1, 44-45, and Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation, 300 U. S. 515. Without reviewing those cases
in detail, it may be said that their decision called for nothing and their opinions contain nothing which may be
properly read to rule the case before us. The court in
those cases recognized the existence of some scope for individual contracts, but it did not undertake to define it or
to consider the relations between lawful individual and collective agreements, which is the problem now before us.
Care has been taken in the opinions of the Court to reserve a field for the individual contract, even in industries covered by the National Labor Relations Act, not
merely as an act or evidence of hiring, but also in the sense
of a completely individually bargained contract setting out

J. I. CASE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
332

Opinion of the Court.

terms of employment, because there are circumstances
in which it may legally be used, in fact, in which there
is no alternative. Without limiting the possibilities, instances such as the following will occur: Men may continue work after a collective agreement expires and, despite negotiation in good faith, the negotiation may be
deadlocked or delayed; in the interim express or implied
individual agreements may be held to govern. The conditions for collective bargaining may not exist; thus a
majority of the employees may refuse to join a union or
to agree upon or designate bargaining representatives, or
the majority may not be demonstrable by the means prescribed by the statute, or a previously existent majority
may have been lost without unlawful interference by the
employer and no new majority have been formed. As the
employer in these circumstances may be under no legal
obligation to bargain collectively, he may be free to enter
into individual contracts 2
Individual contracts, no matter what the circumstances
that justify their execution or what their terms, may not
be availed of to defeat or delay the procedures prescribed
by the National Labor Relations Act looking to collective
bargaining, nor to exclude the contracting employee from
a duly ascertained bargaining unit; nor may they be used
to forestall bargaining or to limit or condition the terms
of the collective agreement. "The Board asserts a public right vested in it as a public body, charged in the public
interest with the duty of preventing unfair labor practices." National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S.
350, 364. Wherever private contracts conflict with its
functions, they obviously must yield or the Act would be
reduced to a futility.
2Cf. Labor Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306 U. S. 332; Labor Board
v. Columbian Enameling & Stamping Co., 306 U. S. 292, 297-98;
Labor Boardv. BrashearFreightLines, 119 F. 2d 379; Hoeniger, The
Individual Employment Contract and Individual Bargain, 10 Fordham L. Rev. 14, 22-25.

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

It is equally clear since the collective trade agreement
is to serve the purpose contemplated by the Act, the individual contract cannot be effective as a waiver of any
benefit to which the employee otherwise would be entitled
under the trade agreement. The very purpose of providing by statute for the collective agreement is to supersede the terms of separate agreements of employees with
terms which reflect the strength and bargaining power and
serve the welfare of the group. Its benefits and advantages are open to every employee of the represented unit,
whatever the type or terms of his pre-existing contract of
employment.
But it is urged that some employees may lose by the
collective agreement, that an individual workman may
sometimes have, or be capable of getting, better terms than
those obtainable by the group and that his freedom of
contract must be respected on that account. We are not
called upon to say that under no circumstances can an individual enforce an agreement more advantageous than a
collective agreement, but we find the mere possibility that
such agreements might be made no ground for holding
generally that individual contracts may survive or surmount collective ones. The practice and philosophy of
collective bargaining looks with suspicion on such individual advantages. Of course, where there is great
variation in circumstances of employment or capacity of
employees, it is possible for the collective bargain to prescribe only minimum rates or maximum hours or expressly
to leave certain areas open to individual bargaining. But
except as so provided, advantages to individuals may
prove as disruptive of industrial peace as disadvantages.
They are a fruitful way of interfering with organization
and choice of representatives; increased compensation, if
individually deserved, is often earned at the cost of breaking down some other standard thought to be for the welfare of the group, and always creates the suspicion of being

J. I. CASE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
332

Opinion of the Court.

paid at the long-range expense of the group as a whole.
Such discriminations not infrequently amount to unfair
labor practices. The workman is free, if he values his own
bargaining position more than that of the group, to vote
against representation; but the majority rules, and if it
collectivizes the employment bargain, individual advantages or favors will generally in practice go in as a contribution to the collective result. We cannot except
individual contracts generally from the operation of collective ones because some may be more individually advantageous. Individual contracts cannot subtract from
collective ones, and whether under some circumstances
they may add to them in matters covered by the collective
bargain, we leave to be determined by appropriate forums
under the laws of contracts applicable, and to the Labor
Board if they constitute unfair labor practices.
It also is urged that such individual contracts may embody matters that are not necessarily included within the
statutory scope of collective bargaining, such as stock purchase, group insurance, hospitalization, or medical attention. We know of nothing to prevent the employee's, because he is an employee, making any contract provided it
is not inconsistent with a collective agreement or does not
amount to or result from or is not part of an unfair labor
practice. But in so doing the employer may not incidentally exact or obtain any diminution of his own obligation
or any increase of those of employees in the matters covered by collective agreement.
Hence we find that the contentions of the Company that
the individual contracts precluded a choice of representatives and warranted refusal to bargain during their duration were properly overruled. It follows that representation to the employees by circular letter that they had such
legal effect was improper and could properly be prohibited
by the Board.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

One minor matter remains for consideration. The
literal terms of the Board's order require the Company to
"cease and desist from (a) giving effect to the individual
contracts of employment or any modification, continuation, extension, or renewal thereof, or entering into any
similar form of contract with its employees for any period
subsequent to the date of this decision," and to give written notice to each to that effect and that "such contract
will not in any manner be enforced or attempted to be enforced" and that "such discontinuance of the contract is
without prejudice to the assertion of any legal rights the
employee may have acquired under such contract."
These provisions, it has been argued, go beyond the
Board's power, leave employees free to bring but the Company powerless to defend actions on the contract, and prohibit making future contracts even when not obnoxious
to the law or to any collective agreement.
The Board, of course, has no power to adjudicate the
validity or effect of such contracts except as to their effect
on matters within its jurisdiction. National Licorice Co.
v. Labor Board, supra. The Board, however, would construe the order more narrowly than its terms suggest. It
says, "The provision in question, as we have seen, is based
upon the finding that the contracts were utilized as a means
of interfering with rights guaranteed by the Act and constituted an obstacle to collective bargaining. Read in the
context of this finding, the requirement of the cease and
desist provisions enjoins petitioner only from continuing
to derive benefits from the contracts heretofore utilized
to forestall collective bargaining and deter self-organization, and from entering into new contracts either for the
purpose of again thus utilizing them or under circumstances
in which similar infringement of the collective bargaining
process would be a probable consequence. The paragraph
does not prevent petitioner from contracting with individual employees under circumstances which negative any

J. I. CASE CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
332

Opinion of the Court.

intent to interfere with the employees' rights under the
Act.... Thus construed, the challenged requirement is
but a reasonable safeguard . . ."
We agree, but the literal language of the order may well
be read in quite different meaning, especially when separated from findings and standing alone in the Court's enforcement order. It then becomes the language of the
Court, and the Court would not be bound to look upon the
Board's construction as its own. Questions of construction
had better be ironed out before enforcement orders issue
than upon contempt proceedings. A party is entitled to
a definition as exact as the circumstances permit of the acts
which he can perform only on pain of contempt of court.
Nor should he be ordered to desist from more on the theory
that he may violate the literal language and then defend
by resort to the Board's construction of it. Courts' orders
are not to be trifled with, nor should they invite litigation
as to their meaning. It will occur often enough when
every reasonable effort is made to avoid it. Where, as
here, the literal language of the order goes beyond what
the Board admits was intended, correction should be made.
Paragraphs 1 (a) and 2 (a) of the decree of the court below are hereby modified, by adding the words in italics, to
read as follows:
"1. Cease and desist from:
"(a) Giving effect to the individual contracts of employment or any modification, continuation, extension, or
renewal thereof to forestall collective bargainingor deter
self-organization,or entering into any similar form of contract with its employees for any period subsequent to the
date of this Decree for such purpose or with such effect.
"2. Take the following affirmative action which the
Board finds will effectuate the policies of the Act:
"(a) Give separate written notice to each of its employees who signed an individual contract of employment or
any modification, continuation, extension, or renewal

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U.S.

thereof, or any similar form of contract for any period subsequent to the date of this Decree, that such contract will
not in any manner be enforced or attempted to be enforced
to forestallcollective bargainingor deter self-organization,
that the employee is not required or expected by virtue of
such contract to deal with respondent individually in respect to ratesof pay, wages, hours of employment, or other
conditions of employment, and that such discontinuance of
the contract is without prejudice to the assertion of any
legal rights the employee may have acquired under such
contract or to any defenses thereto by the employer."
As so modified the decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

is of opinion that the judgment

should be reversed.

ORDER OF RAILROAD TELEGRAPHERS v. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 343. Argued November 10, 1943.-Decided February 28, 1944.
1. Failure of the carrier to give notice, to the representative of the
employees, of an intended change affecting rates of pay of certain
individual employees was in violation of ยง 6 of the Railway Labor
Act of 1926, applicable to the collective agreement in question, and
rendered ineffective the individual agreements entered into; and the
award of the Adjustment Board, based on the collective agreement,
was in accordance with law. P. 346.
2. An award of the Adjustment Board under the Railway Labor Act,
held enforcible in a proceeding in the federal district court begun
within two years of the date of the award, and not barred by a state
statute of limitation of six years (even if applicable) merely because
the claims became six years old while proceedings were pending
before the Board. P. 348.
137 F. 2d 46, reversed.

