TENNANT v. PEORIA & P. IT. RY. CO.
19

29

Counsel for Parties.

Congress intended to put applicants such as appellant in
a preferred position.
Since there is concededly sufficient evidence to support
the findings of the Commission on the control and responsibility test, I would affirm the judgment below.
TENNANT, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PEORIA &
PEKIN UNION RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued December 15, 1943.-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. In this suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover
for the death of an employee, there was evidence from which the
jury could reasonably infer that failure to ring the bell before
starting the locomotive was negligence of the defendant and that
that negligence was the proximate cause of the death; and a judgment for the defendant notwithstanding a verdict for the plaintiff
deprived the latter of the right to trial by jury. P. 33.
2. A court is not free to reweigh the evidence and set aside the jury
verdict merely because the jury could have drawn different inferences or conclusions, or because the court regards another result
as more reasonable. P. 35.
134 F. 2d 860, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 721, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. William H. Allen, with whom Mr. Mark D. Eagleton was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Eugene E. Horton for respondent.
"bona fide operation" as such a carrier. If it was an independent
contractor it was engaged in such "operation"; if it was performing
a transportation service as a mere agent for the carrier with whom
the shipper dealt, it was not. Boston & Maine Transportation Co.,
supra.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MuRPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was instituted by petitioner, who is the administratrix of the estate and the widow of the deceased
Harold C. Tennant, under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.1 Recovery was sought for the alleged wrongful death of Tennant during the course of his employment
as a member of a switching crew in one of respondent's
railroad switching yards. The case was submitted to a
jury, which returned a verdict in favor of petitioner and
awarded her damages of $26,250. The District Court entered judgment accordingly. On appeal by respondent,
the court below reversed this judgment after finding that,
while there was evidence of negligence by respondent,
there was no substantial proof that this negligence was the
proximate cause of Tennant's death. 134 F. 2d 860. It
held that the District Court should have directed a verdict in favor of respondent or allowed its motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. We granted certiorari because of important problems as to petitioner's right
to a jury determination of the issue of causation.
Tennant was employed as a switchman in the "B" yard
of respondent's switching yards in East Peoria, Illinois.
He had worked there for several years and had been attached to the particular five-man switching crew for several months prior to the fatal accident. On the night of
July 12, 1940, this crew was engaged in one of its nightly
tasks of coupling freight cars and removing them from
track B-28. The electric Diesel engine used by the crew
was brought down from the north through divide switch
B-28 and onto track B--28, which extended straight north
and south. The front or pilot end of the engine was
headed south. There were about twenty cars in various
135

ยง 51.

Stat. 65, as amended; 36 Stat. 291; 53 Stat. 1404; 45 U. S. C.

TENNANT v. PEORIA & P. U. RY. CO.
29

31

Opinion of the Court.

groups on track B-28 at that time; they were to be coupled
together and moved northward out of track B--28 to other
locations.
In the course of these coupling operations, the engine
stopped and started six or eight times, gradually moving
southward. After all twenty cars had been coupled, the
engine remained stationary for five or ten minutes before
the engineer received the back-up signal from Harkless,
the foreman. The engineer testified that the engine at
this point was standing about five or six car lengths south
of switch B-28, a car length approximating forty feet.
There was other testimony, however, indicating that the
engine was seven or eight car lengths south of the switch.
While thus waiting for the back-up signal, the engineer
saw Tennant on the west side of the engine placing his
raincoat in a clothes compartment beneath the cab
window. After putting on a cap and jacket he walked
around the north or rear end of the engine and was never
seen alive after that.
There was no direct evidence as to Tennant's precise
location at the moment he was killed. There was some
evidence to indicate that he never walked back on either
side of the engine. It was his duty as a switchman or
pin-puller to stay ahead of the engine as it moved back
out of track B-28, protect it from other train movements,
and attend to the switches.
The engine then pulled the twenty cars out of track
B-28. The fact that Tennant was missing was first noticed when the engine reached a point some distance
north of switch B-28. An investigation revealed blood
marks on the west rail of track B-28 some 315 feet, or
about seven or eight car lengths, south of switch B-28.
There was a pool of blood a foot and a half north of those
marks; near by, between the rails, were Tennant's right
hand, his cap and his lighted lantern. His body was
found at switch B-28, while his head was discovered

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

about fourteen car lengths north and west of that switch.
An examination of the engine and cars disclosed only a
tiny bit of flesh on the outside rim of the north wheel of
the third car from the engine. There was no evidence
of his having slipped or fallen from any part of the engine
or cars.
The case was submitted to the jury on the allegation
that Tennant's death resulted from respondent's negligence, in that its engineer backed the engine and cars
northward out of track B-28 without first ringing the
engine bell. The failure to ring the bell, which was not
disputed, was alleged to be in violation of Rule 30 of
respondent's rules for its employees. This rule provides
that "The engine bell must be rung when an engine is
about to move and while approaching and passing public
crossings at grades, and to prevent accidents." There
was conflicting evidence as to whether this rule was for
the benefit of crew members who presumably were aware
of switching operations and as to whether it was a customary practice for the bell to be rung under such circumstances. In addition, respondent placed great reliance
on the provision of Rule 32 that "The unnecessary use
of either the whistle or the bell is prohibited." This was
said to demonstrate that the bell should not have been
rung on this occasion.
In order to recover under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, it was incumbent upon petitioner to prove
that respondent was negligent and that such negligence
was the proximate cause in whole or in part of the fatal
accident. Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S.
54, 67. Petitioner was required to present probative facts
from which the negligence and the causal relation could
reasonably be inferred. "The essential requirement is
that mere speculation be not allowed to do duty for probative facts, after making due allowance for all reasonably

TENNANT v. PEORIA & P. U. RY. CO.
29

33

Opinion of the Court.

possible inferences favoring the party whose case is attacked." Galloway v. United States, 319 U. S. 372, 395;
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Toops, 281 U. S.351. If
that requirement is met, as we believe it was in this case,
the issues may properly be presented to the jury. No
court is then justified in substituting its conclusions for
those of the twelve jurors.
As to the proof of negligence, the court below correctly
held that it was sufficient to present a jury question. In
view of respondent's own rule that a bell must be rung
"when an engine is about to move," it was not unreasonable for the jury to conclude that the failure to ring the
bell under these circumstances constituted negligence.
This was not an operation where bell ringing might be
termed unnecessary or indiscriminate as a matter of law.
Cf. Aerkfetz v. Humphreys, 145 U. S. 418, 420; Toledo,
St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 171. The engine had remained stationary for several minutes, during
which the engineer saw Tennant disappear in the direction
of the subsequent engine movement. Still not knowing
the precise whereabouts of Tennant, the engineer then
caused the engine and cars to make an extended backward
movement. Such a movement, without a warning, was
clearly dangerous to life and limb. New York Central
R. Co. v. Marcone, 281 U. S.345, 349. There was ample
though conflicting evidence that respondents written rule,
as well as the practice and custom, required the ringing
of the engine bell in just such a situation. We cannot
say, therefore, that the jury's concurrence in that view
was unjustified.
The court below erred, however, in holding that there
was not sufficient proof to support the charge that respondent's negligence in failing to ring the bell was the
proximate cause of Tennant's death. The absence of eye
witnesses was not decisive. There was testimony that

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S

his duties included staying near the north or rear end of
the engine as it made its backward movement out of track
B-28. The location of his severed hand, cap, lantern
and the pool of blood was strong evidence that he was
killed approximately at the point where the engine began
this backward movement and where he might have been
located in the performance of his duties. To this evidence must be added the presumption that the deceased
was actually engaged in the performance of those duties
and exercised due care for his own safety at the time of
his death. Looney v. MetropolitanR. Co., 200 U. S. 480,
488; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Toops, supra, 356;
New Aetna PortlandCement Co. v. Hatt, 231 F. 611, 617.
In addition, the evidence relating to the rule and custom
of ringing a bell "when an engine is about to move" warranted a finding that Tennant was entitled to rely on
such a warning under these circumstances. The ultimate
inference that Tennant would not have been killed but
for the failure to warn him is therefore supportable. The
ringing of the bell might well have saved his life. The
jury could thus find that respondent was liable "for . . .
death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of
any of the . . . employees" In holding that there was no evidence upon which to base
the jury's inference as to causation, the court below emphasized other inferences which are suggested by the conflicting evidence. Thus it was said to be unreasonable to
assume that Tennant was standing on the track north of
the engine in the performance of his duties. It seemed
more probable to the court that he seated himself on the
footboard of the engine and fell asleep. Or he may have
walked back unnoticed to a point south of the engine and
been killed while trying to climb through the cars to the
other side of the track. These and other possibilities sug2

See note 1, supra.

TENNANT v. PEORIA & P. U. RY. CO.
29

Opinion of the Court.

gested by diligent counsel for respondent all suffer from
the same lack of direct proof as characterizes the one
adopted by the jury. But to the extent that they involve
a disobedience of duty by Tennant no presumption in their
favor exists. Nor can any possible assumption of risk or
contributory negligence on Tennant's part be presumed
in order to negate an inference that death was due to respondent's negligence.
It is not the function of a court to search the record for
conflicting circumstantial evidence in order to take the
case away from the jury on a theory that the proof gives
equal support to inconsistent and uncertain inferences.
The focal point of judicial review is the reasonableness of
the particular inference or conclusion drawn by the jury.
It is the jury, not the court, which is the fact-finding body.
It weighs the contradictory evidence and inferences, judges
the credibility of witnesses, receives expert instructions,
and draws the ultimate conclusion as to the facts. The
very essence of its function is to select from among conflicting inferences and conclusions that which it considers most
reasonable. Washington & Georgetown R. Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 571, 572; Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co., supra., 68; Bailey v. CentralVermont Ry., 319 U. S.
350,353, 354. That conclusion, whether it relates to negligence, causation or any other factual matter, cannot be
ignored. Courts are not free to reweigh the evidence and
set aside the jury verdict merely because the jury could
have drawn different inferences or conclusions or because
judges feel that other results are more reasonable.
Upon an examination of the record we cannot say that
the inference drawn by this jury that respondent's negligence caused the fatal accident is without support in the
evidence. Thus to enter a judgment for respondent notwithstanding the verdict is to deprive petitioner of the
right to a jury trial. No reason is apparent why we should
abdicate our duty to protect and guard that right in this

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

case. We accordingly reverse the judgment of the court
below and remand the case to it for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MiR. JUSTICE JACKSON

concur in the result.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE and MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS are
of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.

DEMOREST ET AL. v. CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST
CO., TRUSTEE, ET AL.
NO. 52.

APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATE)S COURT OF NEW
YORK COUNTY, NEW YORK.*

Argued December 10, 1943.-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. Subdivision 2 of ยง 17-c of the Personal Property Law of the State
of New York which, where there is no express provision in the will
or trust, in respect of salvage operations (uncompleted at the date
of the enactment) of mortgaged properties acquired by a trustee by
foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure, prescribes a rule for
apportionment of the proceeds between life tenant and remainderman, held-as against the claim of remaindermen that the statute
deprives them of property without due process of law, in that the
statutory rule is less favorable to remainder interests than were rules
theretofore existing-not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Federal Constitution. P. 48.
2. Decisions of the New York Court of Appeals prior to the enactment
of subdivision 2 of ยง 17-c, held not to have established a rule of
property whereby the remaindermen here acquired any vested
rights. P. 42.
289 N. Y. 423, 46 N. E. 2d 501, affirmed.
290 N. Y. 885,50 N. E. 2d 293, affirmed.
*Together with No. 227, Dyett, Special Guardian,v. Title Guarantee
& Trust Co. et al., also on appeal from the Surrogate's Court of New
York County, New York.

