158

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

limited federal objective. But the war against inflation
is a grim affair calling for quite different requirements. It
cannot be waged along those traditional lines. The luxuries of peace-time arrangements do not always fit the
exigencies of this war emergency. Nor do the state rateregulations in question supplement the federal system.
They override it. And standards which they prescribe are
not the standards for price-fixing under the present Act.
The conventional power to fix rates is governed by criteria
quite different from those which control the Administrator's action. He is to fix those maximum prices which
"will be generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the
purposes of this Act." § 2 (a).
Every exception read into the Act creates another point
of leakage, multiplies the task of enforcement, and creates
a favored class of businesses. I would not read the Act
with such a hostile eye. Where two interpretations are
possible I would take the one which avoids those results.
The choice between the "letter" and the "spirit" is an ancient one even in the law. See Radin, A Short Way With
Statutes, 56 Harv. L. Rev. 388. In this case I think the
wrong choice has been made.
PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS,
PLYMOUTH COUNTY.

No. 98. Argued December 14, 1943.-Decided January 31, 1944.
1. A state statute provides that no minor (boy under 12 or girl under
18) shall sell, or offer for sale, upon the streets or in other public
places, any newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or other articles
of merchandise. The statute makes it unlawful for any person to
furnish to a minor any article which he knows the minor intends
to sell in violation of the law; and for any parent or guardian to
permit a minor to work in violation of the law. Held-as applied

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

to a guardian who furnished a minor ward with religious literature
and permitted the minor to distribute the same on the streets, although the guardian accompanied the minor and both were acting
in accord with their religious beliefs--not violative of freedom of
religion, nor a denial of the equal protection of the laws, under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. P. 167.
2. Whether there was a "sale" or "offer to sell," and whether what
the minor was doing was "work," within the meaning of the state
statute, were questions of local law upon which, on this record,
the decision of the state court is binding here. P. 163.
3. With respect to the public proclaiming of religion in streets and
other public places, as in the case of other freedoms, the power
of the State to control the conduct of children is broader than its
power over adults. P. 170.
4. There is no denial of equal protection of the laws in excluding
children of a particular sect from such use of the streets as is barred
also to all other children. P. 170.
313 Mass. 223,46 N. E. 2d 755, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment entered on a rescript from the
highest court of the State, which sustained convictions on
two of three complaints for violations of a state statute.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Alfred A.
Albert was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert T. Bushnell, Attorney General of Massachusetts, for appellee.
DJR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case brings for review another episode in the conflict between Jehovah's Witnesses and state authority.
This time Sarah Prince appeals from convictions for violating Massachusetts' child labor laws, by acts said to be a
rightful exercise of her religious convictions.
When the offenses were committed she was the aunt and
custodian of Betty M. Simmons, a girl nine years of age.
Originally there were three separate complaints. They

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

were, shortly, for (1) refusal to disclose Betty's identity
and age to a public officer whose duty was to enforce the
statutes; (2) furnishing her with magazines, knowing
she was to sell them unlawfully, that is, on the street; and
(3) as Betty's custodian, permitting her to work contrary
to law. The complaints weremade, respectively, pursuant
to §§ 79, 80 and 81 of Chapter 149, Gen. Laws of Mass.
(Ter. Ed.). The Supreme Judicial Court reversed the
conviction under the first complaint on state grounds; 12
but sustained the judgments founded on the other two.
313 Mass. 223, 46 N. E. 2d 755. They present the only
questions for our decision. These are whether §§ 80 and
81, as applied, contravene the Fourteenth Amendment by
denying or abridging appellant's freedom of religion and
by denying to her the equal protection of the laws.
Sections 80 and 81 form parts of Massachusetts' comprehensive child labor law.' They provide methods for
enforcing the prohibitions of § 69, which is as follows:
"No boy under twelve and no girl under eighteen shall
sell, expose or offer for sale any newspapers, magazines,
periodicals or any other articles of merchandise of any
I The court found there was no evidence that appellant was asked
Betty's age. It then held that conviction for refusal to disclose the
child's name, based on the charge under § 79, would violate Article
12 of the Declaration of Rights of the Commonwealth, which provides
in part: "No subject shall be held to answer for any crimes or offence,
until the same is fully and plainly, substantially and formally, described to him; or be compelled to accuse, or furnish evidence against
himself."
Appellant received moderate fines on each complaint, first in the
District Court of Brockton, then on pleas of not guilty by trial de
novo without a jury in the Superior Court for Plymouth County.
Motions to dismiss and quash the complaints, for directed findings,
and for rulings, were made seasonably and denied by the Superior
Court.
3
Mass. Gen. Laws (Ter. Ed.) c. 149, as amended by Acts and Re-

solves of 1939, c.461,

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

description, or exercise the trade of bootblack or scavenger, or any other trade, in any street or public place."
Sections 80 and 81, so far as pertinent, read:
"Whoever furnishes or sells to any minor any article of
any description with the knowledge that the minor intends to sell such article in violation of any provision of
sections sixty-nine to seventy-three, inclusive, or after
having received written notice to this effect from any officer charged with the enforcement thereof, or knowingly
procures or encourages any minor to violate any provisions
of said sections, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
ten nor more than two hundred dollars or by imprisonment
for not more than two months, or both." § 80.
"Any parent, guardian or custodian having a minor under his control who compels or permits such minor to work
in violation of any provision of sections sixty to seventyfour, inclusive, . . . shall for a first 6ffense be punished
by a fine of not less than two nor more than ten dollars
or by imprisonment for not more than five days, or
both; .. ." § 81.

The story told by the evidence has become familiar. It
hardly needs repeating, except to give setting to the variations introduced through the part played by a child of
tender years. Mrs. Prince, living in Brockton, is the
mother of two young sons. She also has legal custody of
Betty Simmons, who lives with them. The children too
are Jehovah's Witnesses and both Mrs. Prince and Betty
testified they were ordained ministers. The former was
accustomed to go each week on the streets of Brockton to
distribute "Watchtower" and "Consolation," according
to the usual plan.' She had permitted the children to
4 Cf. the facts as set forth in Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413; Lar-

gent v. Texas, 318 U. S. 418; Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105;
Busey v. District of Columbia, 75 U. S. App. D. C. 352, 129 F. 2d 24.
A common feature is that specified small sums are generally asked
and received but the publications may be had without the payment if
so desired.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

engage in this activity previously, and had been warned
against doing so by the school attendance officer, Mr. Perkins. But, until December 18, 1941, she generally did
not take them with her at night.
That evening, as Mrs. Prince was preparing to leave her
home, the children asked to go. She at first refused.
Childlike, they resorted to tears; and, motherlike, she
yielded. Arriving downtown, Mrs. Prince permitted the
children "to engage in the preaching work with her upon
the sidewalks." That is, with specific reference to Betty,
she and Mrs. Prince took positions about twenty feet apart
near a street intersection. Betty held up in her hand,
for passers-by to see, copies of "Watch Tower" and "Consolation." From her shoulder hung the usual canvas
magazine bag, on which was printed: "Watchtower and
Consolation 50 per copy." No one accepted a copy from
Betty that evening and she received no money. Nor did
her aunt. But on other occasions, Betty had received
funds and given out copies.
Mrs. Prince and Betty remained until 8:45 p. n. A
few minutes before this, Mr. Perkins approached Mrs.
Prince. A discussion ensued. He inquired and she refused to give Betty's name. However, she stated the child
attended the Shaw School. Mr. Perkins referred to his
previous warnings and said he would allow five minutes
for them to get off the street. Mrs. Prince admitted she
supplied Betty with the magazines and said, "[N]either
you nor anybody else can stop me... This child is exercising her God-given right and her constitutional right
to preach the gospel, and no creature has a right to interfere with God's commands." However, Mrs. Prince and
Betty departed. She remarked as she went, "I'm not
going through this any more. We've been through it time
and time again. I'm going home and put the little girl
to bed." It may be added that testimony, by Betty, her
aunt and others, was offered at the trials, and was ex-

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

cluded, to show that Betty believed it was her religious
duty to perform this work and failure would bring condemuation "to everlasting destruction at Armageddon."
As the case reaches us, the questions are no longer open
whether what the child did was a "sale" or an "offer to
sell" within § 691 or was "work" within § 81. The state
court's decision has foreclosed them adversely to appellant as a matter of state law. The only question remaining therefore is whether, as construed and applied, the
statute is valid. Upon this the court said: "We think
that freedom of the press and of religion is subject to incidental regulation to the slight degree involved in the prohibition of the selling of religious literature in streets and
public places by boys under twelve and girls under eighteen, and in the further statutory provisions herein considered, which have been adopted as means of enforcing
5In this respect the Massachusetts decision is contrary to the trend
in other states. Compare State v. Mead, 230 Iowa 1217, 300 N. W.
523; State v. Meredith, 197 S. C. 351, 15 S. E.2d 678; State ex rel.
Semansky v. Stark, 196 La. 307, 199 So. 129; Shreveport v. Teague, 200
La. 679,8 So. 2d 640; People v. Barber,289 N. Y. 378,46 N. E. 2d 329;
Thomas v. Atlanta, 59 Ga. App. 520, 1 S.E. 2d 598; Cincinnati v.
Mosier, 61 Ohio App. 81, 22 N. E. 2d 418. Contra: McSparran v.
Portland (Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon, June 8, 1942),
cert. denied, 318 U. S.768.
" The court's opinion said: "The judge could find that if a passer-by
should hand over five cents in accordance with the sign on the bag and
should receive a magazine in return, a sale would be effected. The
judge was not required to accept the defendant's characterization of
that transaction as a 'contribution.' He could believe that selling the
literature played a more prominent part in the enterprise than giving
it away. He could find that the defendant furnished the magazines
to Betty, knowing that the latter intended to sell them, if she could,
in violation of § 69.... The judge could find that the defendant permitted Betty to 'work' in violation of § 81. ... we cannot say that
the evils at which the statutes were directed attendant upon the selling
by children of newspapers, magazines, periodicals, and other merchandise in streets and public places do not exist where the publications are of a religious nature." 313 Mass. 223, 227-228.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

that prohibition." 313 Mass. 223, 229, 46 N. E. 2d 755,
758.
Appellant does not stand on freedom of the press. Regarding it as secular, she concedes it may be restricted as
Massachusetts has done.7 Hence, she rests squarely on
freedom of religion under the First Amendment, applied
by the Fourteenth to the states. She buttresses this foundation, however, with a claim of parental right as secured
by the due process clause of the latter Amendment.' Cf.
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390. These guaranties, she
thinks, guard alike herself and the child in what they have
done. Thus, two claimed liberties are at stake. One is
the parent's, to bring up the child in the way he should go,
which for appellant means to teach him the tenets and
the practices of their faith. The other freedom is the
child's, to observe these; and among them is "to preach
the gospel . . . by public distribution" of "Watchtower"
and "Consolation," in conformity with the scripture: "A
little child shall lead them."
If by this position appellant seeks for freedom of conscience a broader protection than for freedom of the mind,
it may be doubted that any of the great liberties insured
by the First Article can be given higher place than the
others. All have preferred position in our basic scheme.
Schneiderv. State, 308 U. S. 147; Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296. All are interwoven there together. Differences there are, in them and in the modes appropriate for
their exercise. But they have unity in the charter's prime
place because they have unity in their human sources and
7 Appellant's brief says: "The purpose of the legislation is to protect children from economic exploitation and keep them from the evils
of such enterprises that contribute to the degradation of children."
And at the argument counsel stated the prohibition would be valid
as against a claim of freedom of the press as a nonreligious activity.
8
The due process claim, as made and perhaps necessarily, extends
no further than that to freedom of religion, since in the circumstances
all that is comprehended in the former is included in the latter.

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

functionings. Heart and mind are not identical. Intuitive faith and reasoned judgment are not the same. Spirit
is not always thought. But in the everyday business of
living, secular or otherwise, these variant aspects of personality find inseparable expression in a thousand ways.
They cannot be altogether parted in law more than in
life.
To make accommodation between these freedoms and
an exercise of state authority always is delicate. It hardly
could be more so than in such a clash as this case presents.
On one side is the obviously earnest claim for freedom of
conscience and religious practice. With it is allied the
parent's claim to authority in her own household and in
the rearing of her children. The parent's conflict with
the state over control of the child and his training is
serious enough when only secular matters are concerned.
It becomes the more so when an element of religious conviction enters. Against these sacred private interests,
basic in a democracy, stand the interests of society to
protect the welfare of children, and the state's assertion
of authority to that end, made here in a manner conceded valid if only secular things were involved. The last
is no mere corporate concern of official authority. It is the
interest of youth itself, and of the whole community, that
children be both safeguarded from abuses and given opportunities for growth into free and independent welldeveloped men and citizens. Between contrary pulls of
such weight, the safest and most objective recourse is to
the lines already marked out, not precisely but for guides,
in narrowing the no man's land where this battle has
gone on.
The rights of children to exercise their religion, and of
parents to give them religious training and to encourage them in the practice of religious belief, as against
preponderant sentiment and assertion of state power voicing it, have had recognition here, most recently in West
Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette, 319 U. S.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

624. Previously in Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S.
510, this Court had sustained the parent's authority to
provide religious with secular schooling, and the child's
right to receive it, as against the state's requirement of
attendance at public schools. And in Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U. S. 390, children's rights to receive teaching in languages other than the nation's common tongue were
guarded against the state's encroachment. It is cardinal
with us that the custody, care and nurture of the child
reside first in the parents, whose primary function and
freedom include preparation for obligations the state can
neither supply nor hinder. Pierce v. Society of Sisters,
supra. And it is in recognition of this that these decisions
have respected the private realm of family life which the
state cannot enter.
But the family itself is not beyond regulation in the
public interest, as against a claim of religious liberty.
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145; Davis v. Beason,
133 U. S. 333. And neither rights of religion nor rights
of parenthood are beyond limitation. Acting to guard the
general interest in youth's well being, the state as parens
patriae may restrict the parent's control by requiring
school attendance,9 regulating or prohibiting the child's
labor '0 and in many other ways." Its authority is not
nullified merely because the parent grounds his claim to
control the child's course of conduct on religion or conscience. Thus, he cannot claim freedom from compulsory
vaccination for the child more than for himself on religious grounds." The right to practice religion freely does
not include liberty to expose the community or the child
9

State v. Bailey, 157 Ind. 324, 61 N. E. 730; compare Meyer v.
Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510;
West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette,319 U. S. 624.
lo Sturges & Burn Mfg. Co. v. Beauchamp, 231 U. S. 320; compare
Muller v. Oregon,208 U. S. 412.
- Cf. Peoplev. Ewer, 141 N.Y. 129, 36 N. E. 4.
"Jacobson v. Massachusetts,197 U. S. 11.

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

to communicable disease or the latter to ill health or death.
People v. Pierson,176 N. Y. 201, 68 N. E. 243.' The catalogue need not be lengthened. It is sufficient to show
what indeed appellant hardly disputes, that the state has
a wide range of power for limiting parental freedom and
authority in things affecting the child's welfare; and that
this includes, to some extent, matters of conscience and
religious conviction.
But it is said the state cannot do so here. This, first, because when state action impinges upon a claimed religious
freedom, it must fall unless shown to be necessary for or
conducive to the child's protection against some clear
and present danger, cf. Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S.
47; and, it is added, there was no such showing here. The
child's presence on the street, with her guardian, distributing or offering to distribute the magazines, it is urged, was
in no way harmful to her, nor in any event more so than
the presence of many other children at the same time and
place, engaged in shopping and other activities not prohibited. Accordingly, in view of the preferred position
the freedoms of the First Article occupy, the statute in its
present application must fall. It cannot be sustained by
any presumption of validity. Cf. Schneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147. And, finally, it is said, the statute is, as to children, an absolute prohibition, not merely a reasonable
regulation, of the denounced activity.
Concededly a statute or ordinance identical in terms
with § 69, except that it is applicable to adults or all persons generally, would be invalid. Young v. California,308
U. S. 147; Nichols v. Massachusetts,308 U. S. 147; Jamison
v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319
U. S. 105; Martin v. City of Struthers, 319 U. S. 141.1"
Is See also State v. Chenoweth, 163 Ind. 94, 71 N. E. 197; Owens v.
State, 6 Okla. Cr. 110, 116 P. 345.
14 Pertinent also are the decisions involving license features: Lovell
576281-44----15

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

But the mere fact a state could not wholly prohibit this
form of adult activity, whether characterized locally as a
"sale" or otherwise, does not mean it cannot do so for children. Such a conclusion granted would mean that a state
could impose no greater limitation upon child labor than
upon adult labor. Or, if an adult were free to enter dance
halls, saloons, and disreputable places generally, in order
to discharge his conceived religious duty to admonish or
dissuade persons from frequenting such places, so would
be a child with similar convictions and objectives, if not
alone then in the parent's company, against the state's
command.
The state's authority over children's activities is broader
than over like actions of adults. This is peculiarly true
of public activities and in matters of employment. A
democratic society rests, for its continuance, upon the
healthy, well-rounded growth of young people into full
maturity as citizens, with all that implies. It may secure
this against impeding restraints and dangers within
a broad range of selection. Among evils most appropriate
for such action are the crippling effects of child employment,"5 more especially in public places, and the possible
harms arising from other activities subject to all the diverse influences of the street.16 It is too late now to doubt
v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147;
Hague v. Committee for Industrial Organization, 307 U. S. 496.
1 See, e. g., Volumes 1-4, 6-8, 14, 18, Report on Condition of Women
and Child Wage Earners in the United States, Sen. Doc. No. 645,
61st Cong., 2d Sess.; The Working Children of Boston, U. S. Dept.
of Labor, Children's Bureau Publication No. 89 (1922); Fuller, The
Meaning of Child Labor (1922); Fuller and Strong, Child Labor in
Massachusetts (1926).
16 See, e. g., Clopper, Child Labor in City Streets (1912); Children
in Street Work, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau Publication
No. 183 (1928); Children Engaged in Newspaper and Magazine Selling and Delivering, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau Publication No. 227 (1935).

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

Opinion of the Court.

that legislation appropriately designed to reach such evils
is within the state's police power, whether against the parent's claim to control of the child or one that religious
scruples dictate contrary action.
It is true children have rights, in common with older
people, in the primary use of highways. But even in such
use streets afford dangers for them not affecting adults.
And in other uses, whether in work or in other things, this
difference may be magnified. This is so not only when
children are unaccompanied but certainly to some extent
when they are with their parents. What may be wholly
permissible for adults therefore may not be so for children,
either with or without their parents' presence.
Street preaching, whether oral or by handing out literature, is not the primary use of the highway, even for
adults. While for them it cannot be wholly prohibited, it
can be regulated within reasonable limits in accommodation to the primary and other incidental uses. 7 But, for
obvious reasons, notwithstanding appellant's contrary
view,8 the validity of such a prohibition applied to children not accompanied by an older person hardly would
seem open to question. The case reduces itself therefore
to the question whether the presence of the child's guardian puts a limit to the state's power. That fact may lessen the likelihood that some evils the legislation seeks to
avert will occur. But it cannot forestall all of them. The
zealous though lawful exercise of the right to engage in
propagandizing the community, whether in religious, political or other matters, may and at times does create situa17 Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569; Chaplinsky v. New
Hampshire,
315 U. S. 568.
'8 Although the argument points to the guardian's presence as showing the child's activities here were not harmful, it is nowhere conceded
in the briefs that the statute could be applied, consistently with the
guaranty of religious freedom, if the facts had been altered only by the
guardian's absence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tions difficult enough for adults to cope with and wholly
inappropriate for children, especially of tender years, to
face. Other harmful possibilities could be stated, of
emotional excitement and psychological or physical injury. Parents may be free to become martyrs themselves.
But it does not follow they are free, in identical circumstances, to make martyrs of their children before they have
reached the age of full and legal discretion when they can
make that choice for themselves. Massachusetts has determined that an absolute prohibition, though one limited
to streets and public places and to the incidental uses proscribed, is necessary to accomplish its legitimate objectives.
Its power to attain them is broad enough to reach these
peripheral instances in which the parent's supervision may
reduce but cannot eliminate entirely the ill effects of the
prohibited conduct. We think that with reference to the
public proclaiming of religion, upon the streets and in
other similar public places, the power of the state to control the conduct of children reaches beyond the scope of
its authority over adults, as is true in the case of other freedoms, and the rightful boundary of its power has not been
crossed in this case.
In so ruling we dispose also of appellant's argument
founded upon denial of equal protection. It falls with
that based on denial of religious freedom, since in this
instance the one is but another phrasing of the other.
Shortly, the contention is that the street, for Jehovah's
Witnesses and their children, is their church, since their
conviction makes it so; and to deny them access to it for
religious purposes as was done here has the same effect
as excluding altar boys, youthful choristers, and other
children from the edifices in which they practice their
religious beliefs and worship. The argument hardly needs
more than statement, after what has been said, to refute
it. However Jehovah's Witnesses may conceive them,
the public highways have not become their religious prop-

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

erty merely by their assertion. And there is no denial of
equal protection in excluding their children from doing
there what no other children may do.
Our ruling does not extend beyond the facts the case
presents. We neither lay the foundation "for any [that
is, every] state intervention in the indoctrination and participation of children in religion" which may be done "in
the name of their health and welfare" nor give warrant
for "every limitation on their religious training and activities." The religious training and indoctrination of children may be accomplished in many ways, some of which,
as we have noted, have received constitutional protection
through decisions of this Court. These and all others except the public proclaiming of religion on the streets, if
this may be taken as either training or indoctrination of
the proclaimer, remain unaffected by the decision.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTiCE MunPr-, dissenting:
This attempt by the state of Massachusetts to prohibit
a child from exercising her constitutional right to practice
her religion on the public streets cannot, in my opinion,
be sustained.
The record makes clear the basic fact that Betty Simmons, the nine-year old child in question, was engaged in
a genuine religious, rather than commercial, activity.
She was a member of Jehovah's Witnesses and had been
taught the tenets of that sect by her guardian, the appellant. Such tenets included the duty of publicly distributing religious tracts on the street and from door to
door. Pursuant to this religious duty and in the company
of the appellant, Betty Simmons on the night of December
18, 1941, was standing on a public street corner and offering to distribute Jehovah's Witness literature to passersby. There was no expectation of pecuniary profit to

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MuRPnE,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

herself or to appellant. It is undisputed, furthermore,
that she did this of her own desire and with appellant's
consent. She testified that she was motivated by her
love of the Lord and that He commanded her to distribute
this literature; this was, she declared, her way of worshipping God. She was occupied, in other words, in "an
age-old form of missionary evangelism" with a purpose "as
evangelical as the revival meeting." Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 108, 109.
Religious training and activity, whether performed by
adult or child, are protected by the Fourteenth Amendment against interference by state action, except insofar
as they violate reasonable regulations adopted for the protection of the public health, morals and welfare. Our
problem here is whether a state, under the guise of enforcing its child labor laws, can lawfully prohibit girls
under the age of eighteen and boys under the age of twelve
from practicing their religious faith insofar aa it involves
the distribution or sale of religious tracts on the public
streets. No question of freedom of speech or freedom of
press is present and we are not called upon to determine
the permissible restraints on those rights. Nor are any
truancy or curfew restrictions in issue. The statutes in
question prohibit all children within the specified age
limits from selling or offering to sell "any newspapers,
magazines, periodicals or any other articles of merchandise
of any description . . . in any street or public place."
Criminal sanctions are imposed on the parents and guardians who compel or permit minors in their control to engage in the prohibited transactions. The state court has
construed these statutes to cover the activities here involved, cf. State v. Richardson,92 N. H. 178, 27 A. 2d 94,
thereby imposing an indirect restraint through the parents
and guardians on the free exercise by minors of their religious beliefs. This indirect restraint is no less effective
than a direct one. A square conflict between the con-

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

stitutional guarantee of religious freedom and the state's
legitimate interest in protecting the welfare of its children
is thus presented.
As the opinion of the Court demonstrates, the power of
the state lawfully to control the religious and other activities of children is greater than its power over similar
activities of adults. But that fact is no more decisive of
the issue posed by this case than is the obvious fact that
the family itself is subject to reasonable regulation in the
public interest. We are concerned solely with the reasonableness of this particular prohibition of religious activity
by children.
In dealing with the validity of statutes which directly
or indirectly infringe religious freedom and the right of
parents to encourage their children in the practice of a religious belief, we are not aided by any strong presumption
of the constitutionality of such legislation. UnitedStates
v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152, note 4. On
the contrary, the human freedoms enumerated in the First
Amendment and carried over into the Fourteenth Amendment are to be presumed to be invulnerable and any attempt to sweep away those freedoms is prima. facie invalid. It follows that any restriction or prohibition must
be justified by those who deny that the freedoms have been
unlawfully invaded. The burden was therefore on the
state of Massachusetts to prove the reasonableness and
necessity of prohibiting children from engaging in religious
activity of the type involved in this case.
The burden in this instance, however, is not met by
vague references to the reasonableness underlying child
labor legislation in general. The great interest of the
state in shielding minors from the evil vicissitudes of early
life does not warrant every limitation on their religious
training and activities. The reasonableness that justifies
the prohibition of the ordinary distribution of literature
in the public streets by children is not necessarily the rea-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

sonableness that justifies such a drastic restriction when
the distribution is part of their religious faith. Murdock
v. Pennsylvania, supra, 111. If the right of a child to
practice its religion in that manner is to be forbidden by
constitutional means, there must be convincing proof that
such a practice constitutes a grave and immediate danger
to the state or to the health, morals or welfare of the child.
West VirginiaState Board of Education v. Barnette, 319
U. S. 624, 639. The vital freedom of religion, which is
"of the very essence of a scheme of ordered liberty," Palko
v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 325, cannot be erased by
slender references to the state's power to restrict the more
secular activities of children.
The state, in my opinion, has completely failed to sustain its burden of proving the existence of any grave or
immediate danger to any interest which it may lawfully
protect. There is no proof that Betty Simmons' mode of
worship constituted a serious menace to the public. It
was carried on in an orderly, lawful manner at a public
street corner. And "one who is rightfully on a street
which the state has left open to the public carries with him
there as elsewhere the constitutional right to express his
views in an orderly fashion. This right extends to the
communication of ideas by handbills and literature as well
as by the spoken word." Jamisonv. Texas, 318 U. S.413,
416. The sidewalk, no less than the cathedral or the evangelist's tent, is a proper place, under the Constitution, for
the orderly worship of God. Such use of the streets is
as necessary to the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Salvation
Army and others who practice religion without benefit of
conventional shelters as is the use of the streets for purposes of passage.
It is claimed, however, that such activity was likely to
affect adversely the health, morals and welfare of the child.
Reference is made in the majority opinion to "the crippling effects of child employment, more especially in pub-

PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
158

MuRPi,

J., dissenting.

lic places, and the possible harms arising from other activities subject to all the diverse influences of the street." To
the extent that they flow from participation in ordinary
commercial activities, these harms are irrelevant to this
case. And the bare possibility that such harms might
emanate from distribution of religious literature is not,
standing alone, sufficient justification for restricting freedom of conscience and religion. Nor can parents or guardians be subjected to criminal liability because of vague
possibilities that their religious teachings might cause injury to the child. The evils must be grave, immediate,
substantial. Cf. Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252, 262.
Yet there is not the slightest indication in this record, or
in sources subject to judicial notice, that children engaged
in distributing literature pursuant to their religious beliefs have been or are likely to be subject to any of the
harmful "diverse influences of the street." Indeed, if
probabilities are to be indulged in, the likelihood is that
children engaged in serious religious endeavor are immune from such influences. Gambling, truancy, irregular eating and sleeping habits, and the more serious vices
are not consistent with the high moral character ordinarily displayed by children fulfilling religious obligations.
Moreover, Jehovah's Witness children invariably make
their distributions in groups subject at all times to adult
or parental control, as was done in this case. The dangers
are thus exceedingly remote, to say the least. And the
fact that the zealous exercise of the right to propagandize
the community may result in violent or disorderly situations difficult for children to face is no excuse for prohibiting the exercise of that right.
No chapter in human history has been so largely written in terms of persecution and intolerance as the one
dealing with religious freedom. From ancient times to the
present day, the ingenuity of man has known no limits in
its ability to forge weapons of oppression for use against

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of JACKSON, J.

321 U.S.

those who dare to express or practice unorthodox religious
beliefs. And the Jehovah's Witnesses are living proof
of the fact that even in this nation, conceived as it was
in the ideals of freedom, the right to practice religion in
unconventional ways is still far from secure. Theirs is a
militant and unpopular faith, pursued with a fanatical
zeal. They have suffered brutal beatings; their property
has been destroyed; they have been harassed at every
turn by the resurrection and enforcement of little used
ordinances and statutes. See Mulder and Comisky, "Jehovah's Witnesses Mold Constitutional Law," 2 Bill of
Rights Review, No. 4, p. 262. To them, along with other
present-day religious minorities, befalls the burden of testing our devotion to the ideals and constitutional guarantees of religious freedom. We should therefore hesitate
before approving the application of a statute that might
be used as another instrument of oppression. Religious
freedom is too sacred a right to be restricted or prohibited
in any degree without convincing proof that a legitimate
interest of the state is in grave danger.

MR.JUSTICE

JACKSON:

The novel feature of this decision is this: the Court
holds that a state may apply child labor laws to restrict or
prohibit an activity of which, as recently as last term, it
held: "This form of religious activity occupies the same
high estate under the First Amendment as do worship in
the churches and preaching from the pulpits. It has the
same claim to protection as the more orthodox and conventional exercises of religion." ". . . the mere fact that
the religious literature is 'sold' by itinerant preachers
rather than 'donated' does not transform evangelism into
a commercial enterprise. If it did, then the passing of
the collection plate in church would make the church service a commercial project. The constitutional rights of
those spreading their religious beliefs through the spoken

PRINCE v. MASSACHUTSETTS.
158

Opinion of

JACxSON, J.

and printed word are not to be gauged by standards governing retailers or wholesalers of books." Murdock v.
Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105, 109, 111.
It is difficult for me to believe that going upon the
streets to accost the public is the same thing for application of public law as withdrawing to a private structure
for religious worship. But if worship in the churches and
the activity of Jehovah's Witnesses on the streets "occupy the same high estate" and have the "same claim to
protection" it would seem that child labor laws may be
applied to both if to either. If the Murdock doctrine
stands along with today's decision, a foundation is laid
for any state intervention in the indoctrination and participation of children in religion, provided it is done in
the name of their health or welfare.
This case brings to the surface the real basis of disagreement among members of this Court in previous Jehovah's
Witness cases. Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105;
Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S. 141; Jones v. Opelika, 316
U. S. 584, 319 U. S. 103; Douglas v. Jeannette, 319 U. S.
157. Our basic difference seems to be as to the method of
establishing limitations which of necessity bound religious
freedom.
My own view may be shortly put: I think the limits
begin to operate whenever activities begin to affect or
collide with liberties of others or of the public. Religious
activities which concern only members of the faith are
and ought to be free-as nearly absolutely free as anything can be. But beyond these, many religious denominations or sects engage in collateral and secular activities
intended to obtain means from unbelievers to sustain the
worshippers and their leaders. They raise money, not
merely by passing the plate to those who voluntarily attend services or by contributions by their own people, but
by solicitations and drives addressed to the public by holding public dinners and entertainments, by various kinds

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

of sales and Bingo games and lotteries. All such moneyraising activities on a public scale are, I think, Caesar's
affairs and may be regulated by the state so long as it does
not discriminate against one because he is doing them for
a religious purpose, and the regulation is not arbitrary and
capricious, in violation of other provisions of the
Constitution.
The Court in the Murdock case rejected this principle
of separating immune religious activities from secular
ones in declaring the disabilities which the Constitution
imposed on local authorities. Instead, the Court now
draws a line based on age that cuts across both true exercise of religion and auxiliary secular activities. I think
this is not a correct principle for defining the activities
immune from regulation on grounds of religion, and Murdock overrules the grounds on which I think affirmance
should rest. I have no alternative but to dissent from
the grounds of affirmance of a judgment which I think
was rightly decided, and upon right grounds, by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. 313 Mass. 223.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and Mn.

JuSTICE FRAKFURTER

join in this opinion.

BROWN ET AL. v. GERDES T AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 183.

Argued January 4, 1944.-Decided February 7, 1944.

1. In a reorganization proceeding under Ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act,
the bankruptcy court has exclusive jurisdiction to determine the
amount which shall be allowed out of the bankrupt estate for services
of attorneys who, by authority of the bankruptcy court, represented
the bankrupt estate in litigation in a state court. P. 180.
2. The petition for reorganization in this case having been approved
subsequently to the effective date of Ch. X, the result is unaffected

