U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.

707

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. BAUSCH & LOMB OPTICAL
CO. ET AL.
NO. 6 2. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.*
Argued December 8, 1943.-Decided April 10, 1944.
1. The provision of the judgment dismissing, as to certain of the
defendants, the complaint in a suit to restrain alleged violations of
the Sherman Act is here affirmed by an equally divided Court.
P. 719.
2. A distributor of a trade-marked article in interstate commerce may
not limit by agreement, express or implied, the price at which or
the persons to whom its purchaser may resell, except as authorized
by the Miller-Tydings Act. P. 721.
3. The evidence in this case supports the District Court's finding of
a combination and conspiracy between the Soft-Lite company (a
distributor of trade-marked pink-tinted ophthalmic lenses) and
wholesalers to maintain resale prices through a distribution system
in violation of the Sherman Act. On review of its decree, held:
(a) The order of the District Court directing cancellation of
Soft-Lite's arrangements with wholesalers and cessation of systematic price suggestions was justified by the findings. P. 723.
Whether the conspiracy and combination was achieved by
agreement or by acquiescence of the wholesalers, coupled with
assistance in effectuating its purpose, is immaterial.
(b) Clauses of the decree which hold null and void certain resale
price maintenance contracts entered into by Soft-Lite and wholesalers subsequent to the Miller-Tydings Act, and which forbid
enforcement of such contracts and the execution of any others for
six months after notice of cancellation, are justified in view of the
illegality of the distribution system previously existing and because
the contracts in respect of a portion of the resales are not immunized by the Act. P. 724.
Equity has power to eradicate the evils of a condemned scheme
by prohibition of the use of admittedly valid parts of an invalid
whole.
*Together with No. 64, Soft-Lite Len Co., Inc., et al. v. United
States, also on appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

(c) Provisions of the decree giving representatives of the Department of Justice certain broad visitatorial powers, as construed
by this Court, were within the power and discretion of the District Court. P. 726.
(d) A provision of the decree directing the defendants to submit, on the written request of the Department of Justice, such reports in writing "with respect to any of the matters contained in
this judgment" as may be necessary to enforce it, is too indefinite
for judicial enforcement and therefore inappropriate. Pp. 725, 728.
(e) The Government's requests that the decree require Soft-Lite
to sell its product to any person offering to pay cash therefor, and
that the prohibition against Soft-Lite's systematically suggesting
resale prices and its execution of resale price maintenance contracts under the Miller-Tydings Act be made permanent, are
denied. P. 728.
45 F. Supp. 387, modified and affirmed.

CROSS-APPEALS from a decree which, in a suit to restrain
alleged violations of the Sherman Act, dismissed the complaint as to certain of the defendants and gave injunctive
relief against others.

Assistant Attorney General Berge, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Mr. Charles H. Weston were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Mr. Richard
B. Persingerwas on the brief, for the Bausch & Lomb Optical Co. et al., appellees in No. 62; and Mr. Bethuel M.
Webster for the Soft-Lite Lens Co. et al., appellees in No.
62 and appellants in No. 64.
MR. JusTIcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The United States of America brought suit in the District Court for the Southern District of New York against
the Bausch & Lomb Optical Company, a corporation, and
the Soft-Lite Lens Company, Inc., and several of the chief
officers of each, to restrain violations of the Sherman Act.
Jurisdiction was conferred on the trial court by § 4 of the
Act (15 U. S. C. § 4) and upon this Court by § 2 of the

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

Act of February 11, 1903 (15 U. S. C. § 29 and Judicial
Code § 238).

The complaint alleged that Bausch & Lomb and SoftLite and their officers contracted, combined and conspired
to restrain trade in pink tinted lenses for eyeglasses, contrary to §§ 1 and 3 of the Sherman Act.' The allegations
of the complaint were upheld by the trial court as to SoftLite and certain of its officers and dismissed as to Bausch
& Lomb and its officers. UnitedStates v. Bausch & Lomb
Optical Co., 45 F. Supp. 387.
The findings and opinion upon which the decree is
molded show that Soft-Lite is the sole distributor of pink
1

26 Stat. 209, as amended, 50 Stat. 693:

"SgErIoN 1. Every contract, combination in the form of trust or

otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be
illegal: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall render illegal,
contracts or agreements prescribing minimum prices for the resale of a
commodity which bears, or the label or container of which bears, the
trade mark, brand, or name of the producer or distributor of such
commodity and which is in free and open competition with commodities of the same general class produced or distributed by others,
when contracts or agreements of that description are lawful as applied
to intrastate transactions, under any statute, law, or public policy now
or hereafter in effect in any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, in which such resale is to be made, or to which the commodity
is to be transported for such resale, and the making of such contracts
or agreements shall not be an unfair method of competition under section 5, as amended and supplemented, of the Act entitled 'An Act
to create a Federal Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties,
and for other purposes,' approved September 26, 1914: Provided
further, That the preceding proviso shall not make lawful any contract or agreement, providing for the establishment or maintenance of
minimum resale prices on any commodity herein involved, between
manufacturers, or between producers, or between wholesalers, or between brokers, or between factors, or between retailers, or between
persons, firms, or corporations in competition with each other. . .
Section 3 governs similar conduct in territories of the United States
and the District of Columbia.

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tinted lenses sold under the trade name "Soft-Lite." Their
plan of dealing follows. As no patents or secret processes
are relied upon and as Soft-Lite limits itself to distribution
only, the trade name, salesmanship and business experience of Soft-Lite are the qualities upon which it must primarily depend for its profits as a distributor. Soft-Lite
buys its lenses from Bausch & Lomb. It sells to wholesalers, who in turn sell to retailers, who in turn sell to the
public. Laying aside the variations in operating costs of
wholesalers as compared with other wholesalers and of retailers as compared with other retailers, the opportunity
for profits which can be divided between Soft-Lite, the
wholesalers and the retailers, depends upon the difference
between the price per lens that Soft-Lite pays Bausch &
Lomb and the price the ultimate consumer pays the retailer. A wider spread between original purchase and
final prices, which is maintained by artificial fixing of the
prices demanded from the ultimate consumer, furnishes
the links of the distribution chain more profit for division
among themselves. This is true regardless of volume or
price although these factors, of course, affect the aggregate
profits available for division among the dealers who have a
part in distribution. In its self-restricted field, Soft-Lite
is successful. Roughly speaking, for the years 1938, 1939
and 1940 in the United States it has sold one-third of the
pink tinted lenses for one-half of the gross receipts. Other
manufacturers than Bausch & Lomb and other distributors
than Soft-Lite do the remainder of the business.
Soft-Lite has arrangements with Bausch & Lomb for
the purchase from them of lenses and blanks, with wholesalers of optical glass for the supply of this material to
retail opticians, and in turn with these retailers for sales
promotion. This is an integrated plan for the distribution of Soft-Lite's optical specialty, the pink tinted glass
for easing eye strain. The plan of distribution for this

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

commodity has developed over more than a quarter of a
century of experience.
The arrangement with Bausch & Lomb had its origin
in 1924. At that time this manufacturer of optical glass
undertook to grind pink tinted lenses for Soft-Lite out of
foreign glass imported by the latter, but very soon the
two parties arranged for Bausch & Lomb to manufacture
the glass as well. At the very beginning Bausch & Lomb
agreed that any orders for pink tinted lenses which it
might receive would be transmitted to Soft-Lite. A list
of Soft-Lite customers, wholesale and retail, was furnished
Bausch & Lomb. It appeared better to both seller and
buyer to extend their arrangement by a contract in which
Bausch & Lomb undertook to manufacture and sell pink
tinted glass and lenses to Soft-Lite. To avoid the
danger to Soft-Lite's business of indiscriminate selling by
Bausch & Lomb of this pink glass specialty, Bausch &
Lomb agreed that it would not sell pink tinted glass to
lens manufacturers or pink tinted lenses to the optical
trade. Soft-Lite buys exclusively from Bausch &
Lomb.
The legal position of Bausch & Lomb and Soft-Lite is
that of buyer and seller. Their relations through the
years have been close, friendly and mutually satisfactory.
Bausch & Lomb knows generally of the Soft-Lite distribution system, both as manufacturer for an active customer
and as an owner of stock in wholesale optical goods companies, which subsidiary companies handled a large part
of Soft-Lite's goods as jobbers. The officials of the two
corporations carried on discussions and correspondence
with respect to wholesale customers, retail outlets, prices,
advertising policies, the standing of dealers, and general
trade information. As to trade adjuncts for optical glass
distribution such as cleaning cloths, lens cabinets, etc.,
Soft-Lite and Bausch & Lomb cooperated even to the ex576281-44----49

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tent of agreeing to charge identical prices for such marketing aids.
In 1926, the arrangement between Bausch & Lomb and
Soft-Lite was given a somewhat more formal character by
a letter of the manufacturer advising its customer as
follows:
"Since the very beginning of our relations with you, in
connection with this transaction, it has been understood
that we would safeguard your interests in every way and
it has never been our intention to make competition for
you by either marketing a tinted lens of our own or producing similar tinted glass for other manufacturers and
it is our intention to abide by this understanding.
"On the other hand, however, it is difficult to foresee
the progress of science in producing glass possessing better properties than is obtainable at the present time and
in that event we feel certain that you would not in any
way desire to impede our progress in that direction.
"We hope that this may be sufficient guarantee to you
that we do not wish to do anything that would look like
competition in connection with the Soft-Lite and we naturally expect that your efforts in the sale of same will be
continued as at present for an indefinite period unless by
consent of both parties concerned a different arrangement
is agreed upon.
Yours very truly,
BAUscH & LOMB OPTICAL COMPANY.
"P. S. Tinted lenses such as Crookes, Fieuzal, Smoke,
Amber, etc. which we are now manufacturing, it is understood will not come under the above arrangement."
Minor variations in the plan have occurred since that
letter. Bausch & Lomb patented a lens called "Nokrome."
Soft-Lite was advised that when Soft-Lite glass was used
in the Nokrome lens, Soft-Lite should have exclusive distribution. There were other patented lenses manufac-

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

tured by Bausch & Lomb. Sometimes these lenses were
ground from pink tinted glass and sometimes from other
colors. Since these patented lenses were distributed by
Bausch & Lomb under a licensee system, interference
arose. Soft-Lite and Bausch & Lomb made mutually satisfactory adjustments so that their respective retailers
might have some of the advantages of dealing in the
Bausch & Lomb patented lenses ground out of Soft-Lite
glass.
Again, Soft-Lite was released from its obligation to take
second quality lenses and Bausch & Lomb agreed to sell
them only in foreign countries where Soft-Lite had no
offices and at prices acceptable to both Soft-Lite and
Bausch & Lomb.
Reference has been made to the fact that Bausch &
Lomb owned stock in optical wholesale companies which
distributed Soft-Lite lenses and blanks. A stipulation
stated that
"Bausch & Lomb, through its ownership of a majority of
the outstanding voting stock of each of said wholesale
companies, has power to coordinate and control the sales
and pricing policies of said wholesale companies."
These subsidiaries were acquired by Bausch & Lomb
"at intervals subsequent to the original arrangement with
Soft-Lite." They now are the largest outlet for Soft-Lite
lenses, taking sixty per cent of Soft-Lite sales. They were
substantial customers of Soft-Lite before they became
affiliates of Bausch & Lomb. Soft-Lite is treated by its
wholesale customers alike whether or not the customers
are Bausch & Lomb affiliates. It is equally true that all
wholesalers have cooperated with Soft-Lite in the development of its system.
Bausch & Lomb thus profited from the Soft-Lite business in two ways: first, by profit made in manufacturing
and selling to Soft-Lite; second, by sharing, through stock

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

ownership of wholesale distributors of Soft-Lite's goods, in
the profits which lay between the Soft-Lite selling price
and the consumer purchase price. Bausch & Lomb, the
evidence shows, understood well as early as 1925 the advantages to itself through these subsidiaries of the SoftLite plan, which secured an increased profit for division
among distributing agencies. As a consequence, Bausch
& Lomb concerned itself with prices charged to wholesalers
by Soft-Lite, discussed each step of the price mark-up from
Soft-Lite up to the consumer, insisted that reductions in its
prices to Soft-Lite should be passed along the distribution
line, and through its affiliated corporations cooperated in
the price arrangements and the elimination of undesirable
retailers.
Soft-Lite's control of distribution did not cease with
this sale of its goods to optical wholesalers. It sought as
wholesale outlets distributors who were free from business
alliances with Soft-Lite's competitors. It sold only to
wholesalers who were willing to cooperate with its policy.
These wholesalers it designated as dealers and sold its
goods only through them. Soft-Lite's wholesalers were
allowed to resell only to retailers who held licenses from
Soft-Lite. When retailers were licensed, the wholesalers
were notified that they were at liberty to sell to the specified retailer. On the cancellation of the license, the wholesalers were notified in writing that the retailer was no
longer entitled to receive Soft-Lite lenses. If a wholesaler did business with unapproved retailers, it was excluded from Soft-Lite's list of designated wholesalers.
The wholesalers were required to distribute with each
pair of Soft-Lite lenses a numbered certificate called a
"Protection Certificate." By this certificate the wholesale outlet for Soft-Lite lenses found in the hands of unlicensed retailers could be traced by Soft-Lite. The wholesalers were told that the certificates were intended for

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

715

Opinion of the Court.

this purpose. Soft-Lite indicated to the wholesalers the
prices to be received by them from retailers by means of
published price lists. Through these price lists, made
available to wholesalers and retailers alike, the retailers
could determine the prices wholesalers were to charge.
It was determined by the District Court (and this finding is without challenge) that Soft-Lite and the wholesalers understood that material deviation would result
in the discontinuance of the offending wholesaler as an
outlet.
Soft-Lite's plan of distribution was rounded out by its
arrangements with the retail optical concerns. As we
have just pointed out, the retailers knew from the published lists the prices the wholesalers were expected to
charge them. The retailers were selected by Soft-Lite
with care equal to that used in selecting wholesalers.
Soft-Lite, in the words of its brief, was "manufactured
and advertised as a quality product, Soft-Lite must be
sold as such." "Ethical" retailer opticians and optometrists were sought. Those who quoted prices in their
advertisements or operated as adjuncts to department or
jewelry stores were frowned upon. Retail prices to consumers were not fixed by Soft-Lite. It seems to be admitted, however, that the retailer was required to maintain prevailing local price schedules. An application form
dated February 1, 1939, for retail stock licensees calls for
representations to that effect from the Soft-Lite representative recommending the application and the approval of
a Soft-Lite wholesaler. This practice apparently applied
to all retailers. The District Court found that retailers
agreed to sell the lenses at prices prevailing in the locality
and that Soft-Lite required retailers to sell the pink tinted
lenses "at a premium over comparable untinted lenses."
Under its present system, Soft-Lite grants a revocable,
exclusive and nontransferable "license" to the retailer to

716

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

buy Soft-Lite lenses and lens blanks from "licensed" SoftLite distributors or wholesale "licensees" and to resell the
lenses at prevailing prices in the locality where the retailer is located. In turn, the licensee agrees to promote
the sale of Soft-Lite lenses and to do nothing to injure
their prestige. The licensee was required to state that
he understood that the substitution of other lenses for
Soft-Lite would adversely affect that prestige. The licensee further agreed to sell only under the trade names and
mark of Soft-Lite and only to the consumer or patient 2
The retailer's agreement to conform to the license requirements was enforced by surveillance through SoftLite's salesmen and by cancellation of the retailer's license
if he failed to abide by its terms. Wholesalers were notified of such cancellation.
The Miller-Tydings Act of August 17, 1937, 50 Stat.
693, amended the Sherman Act so as to permit minimum
prices for the resale of a commodity which bears the trade
mark of the distributor in states where contracts of that
description are legal by statute so far as intrastate transactions are concerned, and beginning in 1940 Soft-Lite has
entered into resale price maintenance contracts with a
number of wholesalers, presumably in conformity with
the Miller-Tydings Act. The District Court was of the
view that these contracts "came into existence as a patch
upon an illegal system of distribution of which they have
become an integral part."
It is accepted by all parties that the transactions of
Bausch & Lomb and Soft-Lite are in interstate commerce
as the term "commerce" is used in the Sherman Act.
2In 1939 a change was made from the license agreement ;ot to
deal in any lens similar in tint, color or shade to Soft-Lite lenses.
The change followed an agreed order of the Federal Trade Commission of June 23, 1938, Docket No. 2717, In the Matter of Soft-Lite

Lens Co., Inc.

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment of the District Court determined that
Soft-Lite and certain of its officers had contracted and

conspired with optical wholesalers and retailers to violate
the Sherman Anti-trust Act in the following particulars:
"(a) by entering into so-called 'license' agreements
with optical retailers which fix the prices at which said re-

tailers shall sell Soft-Lite lenses; (b) by entering into socalled 'license' agreements with optical retailers which
provide that said retailers will sell such lenses only to the

public; (c) by entering into agreements with wholesale
customers which provide that the said wholesalers will
sell Soft-Lite lenses and blanks only to retailers who are
designated as 'licensees' by the defendant Soft-Lite Lens
Company, Inc.; (d) by entering into agreements with
wholesale customers which fix the prices at which said
wholesalers shall sell Soft-Lite lenses and blanks; (e) by
entering into 'Fair Trade' resale price maintenance contracts with said wholesalers as an integral part of the
illegal distribution system of Soft-Lite blanks and lenses;
and (f) by enforcing the agreements set forth in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this paragraph."
The judgment directs Soft-Lite to cancel its license
agreements with retailers and its Fair Trade resale price
maintenance contracts and agreements with wholesalers
fixing prices and restricting their resales to Soft-Lite's
retail licensees. Soft-Lite and its agents are enjoined
from enforcing these contracts or using identification devices, such as the "Protection Certificates," for tracing resales of lenses or blanks purchased from Soft-Lite. They
are likewise forbidden to enter into any other agreement
similar in effect or purpose to those adjudged unlawful,
except the Fair Trade contracts. These latter may be renegotiated after six months from the notices of cancellation which the judgment directs to issue. There is also
a prohibition against Soft-Lite's and its officers' system-

718

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

atically suggesting resale prices on lens or blanks for said
six months. Bausch & Lomb and various individuals are
adjudged to be free of the violations which are charged
in the complaint. The right to inspect records and to
interview officers and employees is reserved to the Department of Justice in the manner set out below.' Finally,
jurisdiction of the case is retained for further orders, or
directions, including modification or termination of any
of the provisions as well as their enforcement. Cf. Sugar
Institute v. United States, 297 U. S. 553, 605.
Two appeals are before us. The Government seeks to
establish that the agreement of Bausch & Lomb not to sell
pink tinted glass or lenses to any competitor of Soft-Lite
and not to compete with Soft-Lite in the marketing of any
8 "9. That for the purpose of securing compliance with this Judgment, authorized representatives of the Department of Justice, upon
the written request of the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney
General, shall be permitted access, within the office hours of the said
defendants, and upon reasonable notice, to books, ledgers, accounts,
correspondence, memoranda, and other records and documents in the
possession or the control of the said defendants, or any of them, relating to any of the matters contained in this judgment, such access
to be subject to any legally recognized privilege. Any authorized
representative of the Department of Justice, subject to the reasonable
convenience of the said defendants, shall be permitted to interview
officers or employees of said defendants without interference, restraint
or limitation by said defendants; provided, however, that any such
officer or employee may have counsel present at such interview. Said
defendants, upon the written request of the Attorney General, or an
Assistant Attorney General, shall submit such reports with respect
to any of the matters contained in this Judgment as from time to time
may be necessary for the purpose of enforcement of this Judgment;
provided, however, that the information obtained by the means permitted in this paragraph shall not be divulged by any representative
of the Department of Justice to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Department of Justice except in the course
of legal proceedings in which the United States is a party or as otherwise required by law."

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

pink tinted lens unreasonably restrains commerce in
violation of the Sherman Act. By its appeal, the Government urges also a broadening of the decree by the substitution of a permanent instead of a six months' injunction against new Fair Trade agreements and against
systematic suggestion of resale prices by Soft-Lite. It
also asks an addition to the decree requiring Soft-Lite to
sell its product without discrimination to any person
offering to pay cash therefor.
The other appeal is by Soft-Lite and those of its officers
who are enjoined. This appeal attacks the provisions of
the judgment cancelling agreements of Soft-Lite with
wholesalers to charge uniform prices to retailers, enjoining
systematic suggestions of resale prices and execution of
Fair Trade resale price maintenance contracts even for
six months, and allowing future discovery by the Department of Justice in order to police the decree.
Since the alleged illegality of the Soft-Lite distribution
system is the heart of the scheme which the Government
attacks, we shall examine first the judgment from the
standpoint of Soft-Lite's objections to it and then from
that of the Government's desired additions as to SoftLite.
As the Court is equally divided upon the issue raised in
the Government's appeal in No. 62 by its request for a
reversal of the provision of the judgment which dismisses
Bausch & Lomb and its officers from the proceeding, that
provision stands affirmed.
I.
Our task of examining Soft-Lites objections is simplified by the frank recognition of those appellants that "the
retail license provisions binding dealers to sell at locally
prevailing prices and only to the public constitute illegal
restraints." Our former decisions compel this conclu-

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

sion. Price fixing, reasonable or unreasonable, is "unlawful per se." United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.,
310 U. S. 150, 218; United States v. Trenton Potteries,273
U. S. 392, 397; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309
U. S. 436, 458; Fashion Guild v. Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S.
457, 465. The retailer's price to his customer is the single
source of stable profits for all handlers.
These illegal contracts cannot be considered, however,
as happenings, completely insulated from other incidents
of the Soft-Lite distribution system. When we turn to the
provisions of the decree which are attacked here by SoftLite, requiring it to cancel its resale price agreements with
wholesalers as well as retailers and to avoid such requirements for six months either by contract or suggestion, and
thereafter to act only in accordance with the MillerTydings Act, we must first note that it is plain that the
arrangements for price maintenance in the wholesalers'
sales to retailers are an integral part of the whole distribution system. Not only are Soft-Lite wholesalers carefully selected and cooperative but they may sell only to
Soft-Lite's retail licensees. Undesirable wholesalers are
excluded from the system and the District Court found
that by means of published wholesale price lists, put in
the hands of wholesalers and retailers alike, resale prices of
wholesalers are designated by Soft-Lite. The requirement of the wholesalers' recommendation as to the business character of the applicant for a retail license, the evidence of espionage, the limitation of resales to Soft-Lite
retail licensees, the existence of the "Protection Certificate" to mark the wholesaler who might violate the arrangement, the uniformity of the prices, as prescribed in
Soft-Lite's published lists, which are charged retailers by
wholesalers--all amply support, indeed require, the inference of the trial court that a conspiracy to maintain prices
down the distribution system existed between the wholesalers and Soft-Lite through the years prior to this suit.

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

Soft-Lite is the distributor of an unpatented article.
It sells to its wholesalers at prices satisfactory to itself.
Beyond that point it may not project its power over the
prices of its wholesale customers by agreement. A distributor of a trade-marked article may not lawfully limit by
agreement, express or implied, the price at which or the
persons to whom its purchaser may resell, except as the
seller moves along the route which is marked by the MillerTydings Act. Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons
Co., 220 U. S. 373, 404. Even the additional protection of
a copyright, Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339;
Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306 U. S. 208, 221,
and cases cited, or of a patent, United States v. Masonite
Corp., 316 U. S. 265, 276; Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent
Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661, 664-665, and cases cited,
adds nothing to a distributor's power to control prices of
resale by a purchaser. The same thing is true as to restriction of customers. Fashion Guild v. Trade Comm'n,
312 U. S. 457, 465; StandardSanitaryMfg. Co. v. United
States, 226 U. S. 20, 47-49; Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 38,45.
Not only do the appellants urge that conspiracy between Soft-Lite and the wholesalers should not be found
from the foregoing evidence but they also say that they
come within the scope of certain of our cases which are
said to indicate that a simple refusal to sell to customers
who will not resell at prices fixed by the seller is permissible under the Sherman Act. They cite United States
v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300; FederalTrade Commission
v. Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441, 452-3; Federal
Trade Commission v. Sinclair Refining Co., 261 U. S. 463,
475-6; and Federal Trade Commission v. Curtis Publishing Co., 260 U. S. 568, .582. None of these cases involve, as the present case does, an agreement between the
seller and purchaser to maintain resale prices.

722

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S

The Colgate case turned upon the sufficiency on demurrer of an indictment under the Sherman Act against a
manufacturer for requiring its dealers to maintain prices.
As the indictment was construed to allege only specification of resale prices by the manufacturer and refusal to
deal with customers who did not maintain them, this
Court held the indictment insufficient as no reference was
made in it to a purpose to monopolize and in such a posture the Sherman Act "does not restrict the long recognized right of trader or manufacturer engaged in an
entirely private business, freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with whom he will deal.
And, of course, he may announce in advance the circumstances under which he will refuse to sell." 250 U. S. at
302, 306, 307. Cf. United States v. Schrader's Son, 252
U. S. 85, 99.
The Beech-Nut case recognizes that a simple refusal to
sell to others who do not maintain the first seller's fixed
resale prices 4 is lawful but adds as to the Sherman Act,
"He [the seller] may not, consistently with the act, go
beyond the exercise of this right, and by contracts or combinations, express or implied, unduly hinder or obstruct
the free and natural flow of commerce in the channels of
interstate trade." 257 U. S. at 453. The Beech-Nut
Company, without agreements, was found to suppress the
freedom of competition by coercion of its customers
through special agents of the company, by reports of competitors about customers who violated resale prices, and
by boycotts of price cutters. Idem, pp. 451, 454, 455.
As the decision as to the Curtis Company involved only
selling agencies, 260 U. S. at 581, and that as to Sinclair
the restricted use of a distributor's gasoline tanks, 261
U. S. at 474, they are inapplicable to a consideration of a
refusal by a distributor to sell except to chosen dealers.
I Cf. Robinson-Patman Act, § 1, 49 Stat. 1526.

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

As in the Beech-Nut case, there is more here than mere

acquiescence of wholesalers in Soft-Lite's published resale
price list. The wholesalers accepted Soft-Lite's proffer
of a plan of distribution by cooperating in prices, limitation of sales to and approval of retail licensees. That is
sufficient. Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306 U. S.
208, 226, 227; United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S.
265, 274-75; Sugar Institute v. United States, 297
U. S. 553, 601.
So far as the wholesalers are concerned, Soft-Lite and its
officers conspired and combined among themselves and
with at least some of the wholesalers to restrain commerce
by designating selected wholesalers as sub-distributors of
Soft-Lite products, by fixing resale prices and by limiting
the customers of the wholesalers to those recommended by
the wholesalers and approved by Soft-Lite-all in violation
of the Sherman Act. This finding justifies the order directing cancellation of the wholesale arrangements and cessation by Soft-Lite of systematic price suggestions.
Whether this conspiracy and combination was achieved by
agreement or by acquiescence of the wholesalers coupled
with assistance in effectuating its purpose is immaterial.
Soft-Lite makes objection also to the clause of the decree
which holds null and void certain resale price maintenance
contracts entered into by Soft-Lite and many of its wholesalers after the passage of the Miller-Tydings Amendment
to the Sherman Act on August 17, 1937, 50 Stat. 693. See
note 1, supra. Objections on the same grounds apply to
other clauses of the decree forbidding enforcement of
these existing "Fair Trade" contracts with wholesalers and
Soft-Lite's entering into any others until six months after
certain notices of cancellation which are required by the
decree but which have not yet been given owing to this
appeal. Soft-Lite contends that the "Fair Trade" agreements are strictly within the terms of the Miller-Tydings

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Act and we assume the correctness of that position.' The
disadvantage at which these clauses place Soft-Lite towards its customers and competitors is pointed out.
The District Court said that these contracts "came into
existence as a patch upon an illegal system of distribution"
and as an integral part of that system. As some wholesalers do certain cutting and edging work on the blanks for
sale to retailers who do not do this grinding for themselves,
the "Fair Trade" contracts for fixing resale prices apply
only to those sales, known as "stock" sales, where the lenses
and blanks are resold in the same form in which they come
from Soft-Lite. See United States v. Univis Lens Co.,
316 U. S. 241,253-54. We think that where a distribution
system exists, prior to the making of such price maintenance contracts, which is illegal because of unallowable
price fixing contracts and where that illegality necessarily
persists in part because a portion of the resales are not
covered by the "Fair Trade" contracts, as just explained,
subsequent price maintenance contracts, otherwise valid,
should be cancelled, along with the invalid arrangements,
in order that the ground may be cleansed effectually from
the vice of the former illegality. Equity has power to
eradicate the evils of a condemned scheme by prohibition
of the use of admittedly valid parts of an invalid whole.
United States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241, 254; Ethyl
Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461. Cf.
StandardOil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 78; United
States v. Union PacificR. Co., 226 U. S. 61,96,470,476-77;
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205-6.
The last objection brought forward by Soft-Lite to the
decree is that paragraph 9, which is set out in full in note
5

See the decision below, 45 F. Supp. 387, 399. We do not understand the opinion of the District Court to impugn the validity of
bilateral contracts, identical in form, between a producer or distributor, on the one hand, and their customers on the other, entered into
under the Miller-Tydings Act.

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

3, is an unconstitutional exercise of judicial power by
virtue of the provisions of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments or, at any rate, an improper use of the trial court's
discretion.
The first sentence requires Soft-Lite to permit authorized representatives of the Department of Justice to have
access to all records and documents of Soft-Lite which are
in Soft-Lite's control, "relating to any of the matters contained in this judgment . . . subject to any legally recognized privilege." 8I The second sentence we construe to
forbid Soft-Lite or its officers from directing its personnel
to refuse to discuss with investigators of the Department
the affairs of Soft-Lite relating to any of the matters contained in the judgment and from barring from their property investigators who may appear unprovided with search
warrants. This second sentence purports to give no other
right of investigation of the affairs of the appellants. The
third and last sentence directs the defendants to submit
on the written request of the Department such reports in
writing "with respect to any of the matters contained in
this judgment" as may be necessary to enforce it.
There is nothing in the United States Code relating
to monopolies and combinations in restraint of trade which
makes provision for such broad visitatorial powers. Without this statutory authority, United States officials could
not require the corporation to submit to this examination
without a search warrant. Go-Bart Importing Co. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 344, 356-58; United States v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 236 U. S. 318, 329-38. Cf. Guthrie
v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148, 158. The provision was evi6

The wording of the sentence includes the papers of the individual
defendants who are officers of Soft-Lite. The United States disclaims
in its brief, page 55, so broad a meaning. We accept the suggested
interpretation that the paragraph relates only to the papers belonging
to the corporation. Cf. Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361,

376-85.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

dently sought and allowed to enable the Government to
obtain information as to the operations of Soft-Lite subsequent to the judgment declaring Soft-Lite's distribution
operations unlawful, to guide the responsible officials of
the Department of Justice in their duty of protecting the
public against a continuance of the illegal combination and
conspiracy without the necessity of the expense and difficulty of extended investigation or renewed hearings
under the jurisdiction retained for modification or enforcement. If reasonably necessary to wipe out the illegal
distribution system, we see no constitutional objection
to the employment by equity of this method. In the
immediately preceding paragraphs of this opinion which
discuss the power of the trial court to compel the cancellation of "Fair Trade" agreements, executed during and
as a part of the unlawful distribution system, we cited important precedents of this Court which uphold equity's
authority to use quite drastic measures to achieve freedom
from the influence of the unlawful restraint of trade.
These precedents are applicable here. The test is whether
or not the required action reasonably tends to dissipate the
restraints and prevent evasions. Doubts are to "be resolved in favor of the Government and against the conspirators." Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 299;
Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 532.
The Fifth Amendment does not protect a corporation
against self-incrimination through compulsory production
of its papers, Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 375;
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 74-75; Wheeler v. United
States, 226 U. S. 478, although it does protect an individual, Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. A corporation is chartered with special powers only. Its creator,
the State, may examine into its records to see whether or
not the privileges have been abused. Our dual form of
government necessarily authorizes the United States to

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

exercise these powers in the vindication of its own laws.
Halev. Henkel, supra. The Boyd case pointed out that, as
to individuals, the extortion of his private papers by subpoena was not only compelling self-incrimination but was
also an unreasonable search and seizure within the Fourth
Amendment. 116 U. S. at 634. Upon further examination of the problem of the inter-relation of the two Amendments in Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. at 72-73, this Court
reached the conclusion that the Fourth Amendment was
not intended to interfere with "the power of courts to compel, through a subpoenaduces tecum, the production, upon
a trial in court, of documentary evidence," so long as the
scope of the subpoena was reasonable. The power of
Congress to require disclosure of corporate documents, a
question adverted to in Hale v. Henkel, p. 77, but not decided, was upheld in United States v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., supra. The scope of equity's power, Sherman Act,
§ 4, 26 Stat. 209, to obviate continued restraint on trade in
accordance with the Congressional direction as to the use
of the injunction against violators of the Sherman Act is
no more restricted in its field than that of Congress.
The appropriateness of the visitatorial remedy raises
a different question. Of course, a mere prohibition of the
precise scheme would be ineffectual to prevent restraints.
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssn., 166 U. S.
290, 308. The circumstances of each case control the
breadth of the order. Labor Board v. Express Publishing
Co., 312 U. S. 426,436. The other provisions of the decree
are important. If in the present case, Soft-Lite was required for the indefinite future to sell its goods to any
buyer with cash to pay the purchase price, there would
not be the same need for visitatorial powers. The first
sentence of the provision of the decree under discussion
compels the disclosure only of papers relating to the matters contained in the judgment. This we think is limited
576281-44-50

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

sufficiently to satisfy the rule as to necessary certainty.
Wilson v. United States, supra. We cannot say that the
first two sentences of the 9th paragraph of the decree, as
herein construed, were beyond the discretion of the trial
judge. We are of the view that the third sentence, relating to reports, is too indefinite for judicial enforcement
and therefore improper. Cf. Swift & Co. v. UnitedStates,
196 U. S. 375, 400, 402.
II.
The United States seeks extensions of the decree as
entered against Soft-Lite. In the Government's view the
existing prohibitions, although coupled with the retention of jurisdiction for further orders or directions, including modification and enforcement, are insufficient to prevent continuance of the purposes and effects of the unlawful Soft-Lite distribution system. Specifically, we are
asked to direct the inclusion of requirements that SoftLite file "with the district court a written instrument providing that it will sell its product, without discrimination,
to any person offering to pay cash therefor."
The Sherman Act is intended to prevent unreasonable
restraints of commerce. The Clayton amendment, 38
Stat. 731, outlawed agreements with customers which restricted the customer from dealing with the products of a
competitor of the seller. Persons injured by unlawful
restraints may recover threefold damages: The federal
courts have jurisdiction of suits to enjoin violations. Congress has been liberal in enacting remedies to enforce the
anti-monopoly statutes. But in no instance has it indicated an intention to interfere with ordinary commercial
practices. In a business, such as Soft-Lite, which deals in
a specialty of a luxury or near-luxury character, the right
to select its customers may well be the most essential
factor in the maintenance of the highest standards of

U. S. v. BAUSCH & LOMB CO.
707

Opinion of the Court.

service. We are, as the District Court apparently was,
loath to deny to Soft-Lite this privilege of selection.
UnitedStates v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307; Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Raymond Co., 263 U. S. 565, 573. We
have no reason to doubt that Soft-Lite will conform meticulously to the requirements of the decree. When it
is shown to the trial court that it has not done so will be
an appropriate time for the Government to urge this
addition to the decree.
What we have just said as to the Government's request
for a requirement of sales by Soft-Lite to all applicants
for its commodities is relevant to the Government's other
request for modification of the decree to make permanent
the six months' prohibition against Soft-Lites systematically suggesting resale prices on its lenses and the execution of resale price maintenance contracts under the
Miller-Tydings Act. The path is narrow between the permissible selection of customers under the decision in Colgate & Co. and unlawful arrangements as to prices under
this decree, but we think Soft-Lite is entitled to traverse
it, after a reasonable interim to dissipate unlawful advantages, with such aid as Congress has given by the
Miller-Tydings Act. The suggestion for a permanent
injunction is unacceptable.
These conclusions lead us to modify the judgment by
striking.out the last sentence of paragraph 9, quoted in
note 3. As so modified the judgment is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

