194

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

EASTERN-CENTRAL MOTOR CARRIERS ASSOCIATION ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 105. Argued December 15, 16, 1943.-Decided February 7, 1944.
In order to compete with railroads in the transportation of hardsurface floor-covering, motor carriers proposed to establish rates
47.5 per cent of first class, minimum 20,000 pounds (truckload),
and 45 per cent of first class, minimum 30,000 pounds (carload).
The Interstate Commerce Commission rejected the proposed rates
as unjust and unreasonable, and unjustly discriminatory between
shippers, so far as subject to a minimum of 30,000 pounds. Held
that, because of the inadequacy of the record, this Court is unable
to determine whether the decision of the Commission conforms to
law; and the decree of the District Court refusing to set aside the
Commission's order must be reversed. P. 209.
48 F. Supp. 432, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges,
refusing to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, 34 M. C. C. 641.

Mr. Charles E. Cotterill for appellants.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy,Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, and Messrs. Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, and Nelson
Thomas were on the brief, for appellees.
Messrs. Luther M. Walter, Nuel D. Belnap, and John
S. Burchmore submitted for the National Industrial Traffic League, intervener, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants are motor carrier associations who seek to
put into effect proposed rate schedules in order to meet

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

rail competition. The schedules cover transportation of
hard surface floor covering, e. g., linoleum, from points
in New England and Middle Atlantic states to various
destinations in Middle Western states. The Interstate
Commerce Commission, three Commissioners dissenting,
rejected the schedules. 34 M. C. C. 641. In so doing it
upheld the previous conclusion of its Division 3. 31 M.
C. C. 193. A three-judge District Court (28 U. S. C. § 47)
sustained the Commission's decision. 48 F. Supp. 432.
The appeal, under 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 345, brings the decree here for review. Eastern-Central is the principal
appellant. We think the judgment must be reversed.
When the schedules were filed, the motor carriers' rates
on carpeting generally were based on minimum weights
varying between 16,000 and 20,000 pounds, roughly approximating a truckload. Below this weight the rate was
equivalent to 70 per cent of first class. Above it the rate
varied somewhat, in the neighborhood of 45 to 50 per cent
of first class. Corresponding rail rates then were 70 per
cent of first class for shipments of less than 30,000 pounds
(less than carload lots) and 45 per cent for larger shipments. Thus, the differential according to weight was
geared in the one case to rail carload capacity and in the
other to truckload capacity.'
Conceiving that these structures gave the railroads an
undue competitive advantage on larger shipments, appellants proposed specific rates designed to enable them to
1So it was found, in each instance, upon the evidence, and the finding is not disputed. The figures are only approximate; that is, 30,000
pounds represents not an exact carload capacity, since differences in
loading characteristics of commodities and slight differences in carload
capacities, may make possible loading slightly more or less in a car.
Similar, perhaps somewhat wider, variations affect trucks. The findings were that 20,000 pounds reasonably can be viewed as a minimum
weight geared to truckload capacity, though in some instances as much
as 22,000 or 25,000 pounds actually can be loaded in one vehicle.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

compete with the railroads for such shipments. They
sought to utilize a new minimum weight. The rates tendered were approximately the equivalent of 70 per cent
of first class for shipments of less than 20,000 pounds, 47.5
per cent for 20,000 to 30,000 pounds, and 45 per cent for
30,000 pounds or more. The schedules therefore substantially put rail and motor rates on the same plane for less
than 20,000 and more than 30,000 pounds; but placed motor rates substantially lower than rail rates for shipments
of 20,000 to 30,000 pounds.
Certain western rail carriers protested. Thereupon the
proposed rates were made the subject of investigation and
suspension proceedings. 49 U. S. C. § 316 (d), (g), 49
Stat. 558-560, 54 Stat. 924. Hearings were begun before Division 3. While they were pending appellants
agreed to make applicable in connection with their proposed rate, minimum 30,000 pounds, a tariff provision
that such shipments "must be received at and transported
from the point of origin from one shipper in one day and
on one bill of lading." 2 The rail protestants therefore
presented no evidence and after the hearing withdrew
their protest. While the proceedings were pending the
rail carriers also reduced their rates minimum 30,000
pounds to 42.5 per cent of first class.
The hearings continued and appellants presented evidence which showed, among other things, that one motor
carrier, Brady Transfer and Storage Company, of Fort
Dodge, Iowa, had received "since these rates were suspended, four loads from the Western Trunk Line Territory, instead of 398, and three of those we haven't collected the charges on, because the rate was too high . . ."
It appeared too that the eastbound movement consists
largely of dairy products, requiring refrigeration. The
Cf. Carpets and Carpeting from Official to Southern Territory, 237
I. C. C. 651; Peanut Butter from Montgomery, Ala., to Georgia, 22
M. C. C. 375.
2

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

bulk of the westbound movement is frozen or salted
fish.
Division 3 made findings and conclusions first that,
based upon the costs proven and comparison with motor
carriers' rates on numerous commodities, the proposed
rates 45 per cent were "just and reasonable provided the
minimum that is applicable in connection therewith is reasonable." Accordingly it examined the reasons advanced
in support of the proposed minimum of 30,000 pounds.
On this, it found in No. M-1445 3 that linoleum shipments which move by rail to the Ohio points generally are
consigned to warehouses having rail sidings, while linoleum is tendered to the appellant motor carriers in quantities weighing from 18,000 pounds upward. It found
also, and the finding is not questioned, that it is physically
impossible to load 30,000 pounds of linoleum into a single
unit of equipment operated by appellants. While some
of it can transport 25,000 pounds, "the normal truckload
of linoleum approximates 22,000 pounds." Rejecting appellants' contention based on Carpets and Carpeting from
Official to Southern Territory, 237 I. C. C. 651, the Division stated:
"The Commission has found repeatedly that carload
minimum weights should be established by rail carriers
with reference to the loading capacity of their freight cars
and has condemned minimum weights in excess of the
loading possibilities of the rail equipment. The respondents [appellants here] have not presented to us a valid
reason from the point of view of economy in transportation or otherwise, such as we have found to exist in connection with certain trainload movements,4 why they
uTwo proceedings, Investigation & Suspension Docket No. M-1216

and No. M-1445, were heard separately, but consolidated before the
Division.
4E. g., Molasses from New Orleans, La., to Peoria and Pekin, Ill.,
235 I. C. C. 485.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

should be permitted to establish a minimum weight
greater than is physically possible to load in the motor
equipment usually used by them, and, in our opinion, no
such reason exists. Strictly speaking, the proposed minimum weight of 30,000 pounds is not a truckload minimum
weight but rather is a volume minimum weight, which
necessitates the use of more than one unit of equipment
to load and transport that quantity of linoleum. We
adopt as a policy, the condemnation as unreasonable of
a volume minimum weight, unless it is shown clearly that,
as a result thereof, motor carriers can handle the traffic at
the volume minimum weight at costs per 100 pounds
which are less than the costs incurred at a reasonable
truckload minimum weight." (Italics supplied.)
The Division then found that, on the record, a reasonable truckload minimum on linoleum is 20,000 pounds and
there was no showing of operating economies which would
result if the proposed rates were restricted to apply only
when 30,000 pounds are tendered. It concluded that the
proposed schedules "are just and reasonable and otherwise lawful except to the extent that they propose to
establish a minimum of 30,000 pounds; that the proposed
minimum of 30,000 pounds is unjust and unreasonable;
and that a minimum of 20,000 pounds would be just and
reasonable." The proposed schedules therefore, to the
extent found not just and reasonable, were ordered cancelled "without prejudice to the establishment . . . of

truckload rates on linoleum, minimum 20,000 pounds,
which are not less than 45 percent of the corresponding
first-class rates." 31 M. C. C. 193.
Thereafter oral argument was had before the full Commission. At this stage the National Industrial Traffic
League intervened and supported the Division's position."
5

This intervenor did not appear in the District Court, not having
notice of the proceedings there until after the argument there. The
appearance here is by virtue of an order granting a motion to intervene.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission affirmed the Division's findings "that
the proposed rates 45 and 47.5 percent of first class are
not unjust or unreasonable except to the extent that the
proposed rates, 45 percent of first class, are subject to a
minimum of 30,000 pounds." Both rates, it said, "are
within the zone of reasonableness." But "the proposed
rates, minimum 30,000 pounds, would give an unjust advantage to shippers of 30,000-pound lots and be unjustly
discriminatory to shippers of 20,000-pound lots." Since
at that time the tariffs disclosed appellants' rates were
either 45 or 47.5 per cent of first class, minimum 20,000
pounds, no order for the future was made. The Commission, in concluding its discussion, said:
"We are mindful of the fact that we approved certain
[motor carrier] rates subject to a minimum weight of
30,000 pounds on linoleum in Carpets and Carpeting,Official to Southern Territory, supra. However, our report
therein expresses our doubt as to the propriety of establishing a minimum of 30,000 pounds in connection with
the proposed column 45 basis because it would require
more than one unit of equipment to transport 30,000
pounds. That report was issued over a year ago and now
we are convinced that not only were our doubts as expressed therein well founded, but that for the future wpshall follow the policy announced in the prior report
herein with respect to minimum weights in excess of the
loading capacity of the equipment customarily used by
the motor carriers." (Italics supplied.)
The District Court, sustaining the Commission's findings and decision,6 held that the extent to which competiOThe decree dismissed appellants' bill to set aside and enjoin enforcement of the Commission's order of suspension. The court agreed
that the proposed rate of 45 per cent, minimum 30,000 pounds, is
"a mere adoption on a volume basis of rates for railroad carload lots,"
having "no relation to the business of the motor carriers," both be-

cause there was no showing of any saving in operating costs when
576281-44----17

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tion should be recognized in arriving at just rates is a
matter, within reasonable limits, for the expert judgment
of the Commission and that, in exercising its discretion,
that body had met the requirements of § 216 (i) of the
Motor Carrier Act." 49 U. S. C. § 316 (i).

I.
Notwithstanding the apparent difference between the
Division and the full Commission, in the former's view
that the proposed rate minimum 30,000 pounds is unreasonable and the latter's that it is both unreasonable
and unduly discrininatory, the net effect is that the rate
is unlawful, as a matter of policy which condemns all
volume minimum rates unless it is clearly shown they
will operate at costs per 100 pounds less than the costs
incurred at reasonable loading capacity rates.
carrying more than 20,000 pounds and because there was none that a
45 to 47.5 rate, for anything beyond 20,000 pounds "would not enable
them to maintain reasonable competition with the railroads." As to
the finding that rates of either 45 or 47.5 per cent, minimum 20,000
pounds, would not in themselves be unreasonable, the court said this
"does not negative the finding of an unjust advantage to shippers of
30,000 pound lots in cases where shippers of 20,000 pound lots are not
given the same treatment."
7The court found that the Commission had met the section's requirements "in that it has given 'due consideration . . . to the inherent advantages of transportation by such carriers, (and) . . . to
the need, in the public interest, of adequate and efficient transportation service by such carriers at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service. .. ."' No specific reference was made, however, to the over-all national transportation policy, or its requirements
particularly in relation to the Commission's duty "to . . . foster sound
economic conditions . . . among the several carriers; to encourage the
establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges, . . . without
• .. unfair or destructive competitive practices; . . . all to the end
of developing, coordinating, and preserving a national transportation
system by water, highway, and rail. . . ." Cf. note 13 infra and text.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. I. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

Whether this policy is now intended to apply to all
forms of transportation, rail, motor and water, without
regard to competitive conditions affecting two or more of
them, is not clear from the abbreviated reports made in
this case. But their casting of the matter in terms of
unqualified policy, dependent only upon proof of the required reduction in operating costs, gives both appearance
and substance to the view this may be true, if not with
respect to all carriers, then certainly with reference to
motor carriers. If so the effect will be, as appellants urge,
not to make reduction in costs merely one factor, nor indeed even the most important factor, in determining the
reasonableness and discriminatory or contrary character
of rates. It will be rather to make reduction in costs the
exclusive criterion, eliminating all other considerations,
including competitive conditions amounting to necessity.
That is true, notwithstanding the Commission's report.
immediately prior to stating its adoption of the policy
announced by the Division, gave expression in an abstract
way to a directly contrary principle, namely, "the extent
to which competition between carriers may render discrimination and prejudice not unlawful must be decided
upon the facts in each case."' The latter statement, taken
8 The Commission long has recognized that "reference to and . . .
consideration of all pertinent facts, circumstances, and conditions affecting the rate in effect at any particular time" are necessary. 20
I. C. C. 43. Included as pertinent have been such "facts, circumstances, and conditions" as the expense attributable to the character

of the commodity, e. g., whether it is subject to special risks or requires
special setrices, cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago Great
Western Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108; 113 I. C. C. 389; 87 I. C. C. 711, or
its transportation character is affected by the manner of packing, 98
I. C. C. 166; the value of the service rendered and of the commodity,
e. g., 83 I. C. C. 334; 100 I. C. C. 471; 102 I. C. C. 325; cf. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 64 F. 723 (C. C.
N. D. N. Y.); the possibility of securing continuous business or ad-

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

literally, squarely contradicts the policy unless indeed thE
statement was intended to qualify it in situations not
indicated or contained an implicit limitation from context
that the only "facts in each case" which would be material
are those which would prove a reduction in costs.
That the purpose was not to qualify the policy seems
apparent, not only from the latter's unqualified formulation and adoption and from the failure to intimate in what
types of situation the qualification might operate, but also
from two other considerations. One is that the statement was followed immediately by the broad and conclusive declaration, in general terms, without supporting
data or reasons, except as supplied by the policy itself,
that "the competition between rail and motor carriers for
linoleum traffic does not constitute such a dissimilarity
in circumstances and conditions as to render legal the proposed discrimination." The statement was not limited to
the particular competitive situation. In terms it applied
to all between rail carriers and motor carriers. In short,
the policy, and therefore the single factbr that there was
no evidence to show reduction in cost, was the sole criterion
of decision. Other facts, including competitive disadvantage, became irrelevant. And the significance of the polditional tonnage, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; peculiar needs or conditions affecting
specific areas, 9 I. C. C. 318; 113 I. C. C. 389; 146 I. C. C. 419; cf.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162
U. S. 197; rates on the same or similar commodities elsewhere, 113
I. C. C. 389; 122 I. C. C. 235; and the need to meet competition,
either by the same or other type of carrier, Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144; Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 289 U. S. 627; United States v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515; Mississippi Valley Barge Line Co. v.
United States, 292 U. S. 282; Barringer & Co. v. United States, 319
U. S. 1. See also 142 I. C. C. 121; 235 I. C. C. 485; 235 I. C. C 723;
237 I. C. C. 651.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

203

Opinion of the Court.

icy's application becomes more manifest by virtue of the
fact that the case, though presented and decided on its own
record, was regarded and determined as a test case.' Finally, the Commission's review of its previous decisions,
upon which appellants relied, shows, we think, that its
purpose, in the case of motor carriers at any rate, is to
adhere strictly to the policy and, in the manner made,
may be taken to indicate that it contemplates no departure
whatever. If so, the effect of the decision is not merely
to adopt "a policy of administration," as the Commission
and the intervenors before it assert; but is rather to adopt,
as a rule of law, the principle that only upon a showing
of reduction in operating costs may a volume minimum
rate be found reasonable and not unduly discriminatory.
II.
The Commission considered chiefly previous decisions
in Carpets and Carpeting from Official to Southern Territory, supra;Mvfolasses from New Orleans, La., to Peoria
and Pekin, Ill., 235 I. C. C. 485; and Petroleum Rail Shippers' Assn. v. Alton and Southern R., 243 I. C. C. 589.
In the Molasses case, notwithstanding the Commission's
previous refusal to authorize rail volume rates for more
than carload lots at less than carload rates, it approved a
multiple car rate, minimum 1,800 tons, on molasses which
was lower than the carload rate. The effect was to authorize a lower rate to a number of carloads tendered as a
single shipment. The departure was made to enable the
9The brief of the National Industrial Traffic League, intervenor,
points out that appellants and other carrier associations joined in a
petition to the Commission for reargument and reconsideration of
eleven cases previously decided by Divisions 2 and 3, including the
one presently involved, I. and S. No. M-1216. The petition was rejected, since the petitioners were not parties of record to all the proceedings. But coincidentally the Commission reopened 1. and S. No.
M-1216, for oral argument.

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

rail carriers to meet water competition. However, there
was a showing that in the circumstances a material saving
in costs per 100 pounds would be made in transporting
such multiple-car shipments. In the Petroleum Shippers
case the Commission considered authorizing multiple-car
rates on petroleum, but declined to do so upon finding
that the record did not establish existence of a substantial
cost saving in such shipments.
In the Carpets and Carpeting case the Commission approved certain rates subject to a minimum weight of
30,000 pounds on linoleum. In doing so, it said:
"We are not convinced that it would be reasonable for
the motor carriers to establish a minimum of 30,000
pounds in connection with the postponed column 45 basis,
because it would require more than one unit of equipment
to transport 30,000 pounds. On this record, however, we
are not prepared to say that the column 45 rates, minimum
30,000 pounds, where not lower than the corresponding
proposed rail-water carload rates, would be unlawful, provided that a rule is made applicable in connection therewith to the effect that shipments of not less than 30,000
pounds actually will be received at and transported from
the point of origin from one shipper in one day and on one
bill of lading." 237 I. C. C. 651, 657-658.
And in Peanut Butter from Montgomery, Ala., to Georgia, 22 M. C. C. 375, Division 2, although declaring in one
breath that motor carriers should not maintain volume
rates subject to minimum weights greater than equipment generally available can transport, in the next noted
that the national motor-freight classification is replete
with such ratings, refused to condemn them and said that
if they were restricted to apply only when tendered by
one shipper, in one day and on one bill of lading, they
would be "in consonance with Carpets and Carpeting from
Official to Southern Territory, supra."

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

III.
These cases disclose departures, though tentatively
made, from the Commission's long-standing'" policy in
the same respect, adopted when its powers extended only
to rail carriers. Influenced primarily by the desire to secure shipping advantages for the small shipper equal to
those given the large one and thus to enforce the policy
of the interstate commerce legislation against undue discrimination, the Commission at first declined to adopt
wholesale rates." The major departure was in allowing
lower rates for carload lots than for less-than-carload
shipments. This was justified by the difference in costs.
Accordingly, the structure became fixed with this as the
major and for long the only differential; and with it the
principle that such a saving in operations alone justifies a
differential. That policy received judicial approval "1and
remained controlling so long as the Commission had authority only over railroads.
But with the evolution of other forms of carriage, particularly motor carriage, and the Commission's acquisition of control over their rates and operations, a new situation arose. The Commission's task no longer was merely
the regulation of a single form of transport, to secure
reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates and service. It
became, not merely the regulator, but to some extent the
10 E. g., Paine Bros. & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 7 I. C. C. 218;
Anaconda Copper Mining Co. v. Chicago & Erie R. Co., 19 I. C. C.
592, 596; Rickards v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 23 I. C. C. 239, 240;
Woodward Bennett Co. v. San Pedro, L. A. & St. L. R. R., 29 I. C. C.
664, 665; J. W. Wells Lumber Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. 1. Ry., 38
I. C. C. 464, 465; and compare Scofield v. Lake Shore & Michigan
So. Ry. Co., 2 1. C. C. 90.
11 See note 10 supra.
12 Compare Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware,L. & W.

R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, 240-241.

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

coordinator of different modes of transportation. With
the addition of motor and water carriage to its previous
jurisdiction over rails, it was charged not only with seeing
that the rates and services of each are reasonable and not
unduly discriminatory, but that they are coordinated in accordance with the national transportation policy, as declared by the later legislation.13 This, while intended to
secure the lowest rates consistent with adequate and efficient service and to preserve within the limits of the policy
the inherent advantages of each mode of transportation,
at the same time was designed to eliminate destructive
competition not only within each form but also between
or among the different forms of carriage.
Necessarily the impact of these changes brought problems the Commission previously had not faced. Necessarily too the Commission in facing them, including those
of adjustment among the various forms of transportation,
called upon its previous experience in the railroad field
for guidance to its judgment. But that experience could
not apply fully to the other and different forms of carriage.
Nor could it do so always when the interests of two or more
13

Motor Carrier Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 543; Transportation Act of
1940, 54 Stat. 899.
That policy demands that all modes of transportation subject to
the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act be so regulated as, in
the statute's language, to "recognize and preserve the inherent advantages of each; to promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient
service and foster sound economic conditions in transportation and
among the several carriers;to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges for transportation services, without unjust discriminations, undue preferences or advantages, or unfair or
destructive competitive practices; .

.

. all to the end of developing,

coordinating, and preserving a national transportation system by
water, highway, and rail, as well as other means, adequate to meet the
needs of the commerce of the United States, of the Postal Service, and
of the national defense." 54 Stat. 899. (Italics added.) Cf. McLean Trucking Co. v. UnitedStates, ante, p. 67.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

were found in conflict. Each form of transportation presents, by reason of its peculiar operating conditions, its
own problems for the function of rate making. And each,
by virtue of competition with others, presents additional
complications arising from the varied circumstances of
their operation. Hence, in such situations, principles previously established for application within a single form of
transportation cannot always be transplanted to control
its relations with another or those of both with the public
generally, without consequences unduly harmful to one or
to the public interest.
Thus, in the problem presented by this case, application
of the principle that volume minimum rates will be allowed
only when geared to a capacity loading which makes possible a real saving in costs of operation, may be made within
either the railroad area or the motor area without substantial disturbance or difficulty. Each has its unit of carriage or loading and that unit has a substantial relation to
costs; hence, upon the long-established railroad principle,
to reasonableness and the discriminatory or nondiscriminatory character of rates. But, as between rails and
motors, the two units are different. And the two forms
of carriage compete, unless the lower rates geared to the
respective units are of a character that each forces the
other form of carriage from the field. The junction of
difference in available units, with rates geared to them,
and the fact of competition or competitive possibility produces or may produce consequences neither the character
of the unit nor the fact of competition, nor both together,
could create in either form of service taken alone. In
short, the very fact a rail carload is 30,000 pounds and a
truckload 20,000, with rates respectively tied to these
weights, may make a life-or-death difference in the competitive struggle, with consequences affecting not only the
carriers but the public interest as well. And appellants'

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

argument that a 30,000-pound minimum is necessary to
meet rail competition is at least consonant with the frequent recognition, both by the Commission and by this
Court, that there are occasions when it is appropriate for
the former to consider a carrier's need to meet other carriers' competition as a factor justifying what otherwise
would be an unreasonable or an unduly discriminatory
rate."
But whether and to what extent competition may have
destructive effect, or other consequences hurtful to the
public interest, in a particular situation may depend not
merely on the difference in sizes of units, but on other factors. Each form of carriage has some inherent advantages
over the others, such as mobility, speed, normal volume
capacity, etc. Purely legal restrictions, such as limitations upon tonnage placed on trucks by state laws, create
like or contrary effects. Whether, in a particular situation, the mere difference in loading capacity or some other
or others of the many important factors affecting competitive position will be controlling depends upon the character of, and the factors involved in, that situation. And
this is as true of one form of transportation as of another
when, but for rate structures geared solely to costs of operation, it comes within a competitive tangent.
IV.
In such a situation, therefore, to tie rate differentials
exclusively to minimum weights based on available unit
size conceivably might allocate all shipments of that size
to the form of transportation to which it appertains. Or,
if the effect were less extensive, still it might impose conditions upon the competition unduly burdensome or not
required by the competitive situation and the applicable
statutory policies. Thus, appellants say the Commis14Cf note 8 supra.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

sion's ruling has such consequences in this case, namely,
to force them to make the 45 per cent rate available on
shipments between 20,000 and 30,000 pounds, thus placing
the railroads at a disadvantage on such tonnages and compelling the motor carriers to reduce their rates on them
below what the competition requires; or to compel them
to forego an equality of rate with the railroads on shipments of 30,000 pounds and more by charging only the
one rate of 47.5 per cent on all shipments of 20,000 pounds
and more. From these alternatives it is charged the consequence is to force the truckers "out of that very large
field of traffic" and allocate it to the railroads. Whether
this is the effect or not, we have no means of knowing on
this record. Nor can we tell, other than by sheer acceptance of the Commission's conclusion, in the form of its
statement of the result and cryptic formulation of the
policy on which it is rested, whether the proposed rates
will give the motor carriers an undue competitive advantage as to shipments of 20,000 to 30,000 pounds, whether
there will be discrimination in fact between classes of shippers, or whether though these things may result in the
particular situation they will do so only by virtue of its
peculiar features or by virtue of its conformity to conditions generally prevailing in regions competitive as
between rail and motor carriers.
These, and other questions of like import, remain unanswered upon the record. The problem is novel. It is
not free from complexity, as appears from the Commission's hesitant departures from, then its return to, the
long-established railroad rule, in inter-carrier situations.
Further, the matter is one of general importance. It affects not only shipments of linoleum, and motor carriers,
but many kinds of shipment and all kinds of carriers
within the Commission's jurisdiction. It may touch
vitally the public interest. It involves, to some extent, the
important task of reconciling previously established rail-

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

road policies with, or adapting them to, the requirements
of the presently effective national transportation policy
and its application to a coordinated transportation system.
Upon a matter of such consequence and complexity, our
function in review cannot be performed without further
foundation than has been made.
We do not mean by this to imply that the result the
Commission has reached would not be sustained if a sufficient basis were supplied in the record. We do not undertake to determine what result the Commission should
reach. But we cannot say the one at which it has arrived
has the sanction of law without further basis than we now
have. This in itself requires reversal. Consequently we
need not speak concerning appellants' other contentions,
except insofar as the pertinence of some of them to the
necessary further proceedings requires.
V.
Appellants' broadest contention must be rejected at this
stage. It is, in effect, that as a matter of law, in the particular circumstances competitive necessity becomes the
controlling consideration, and costs of operation, that is
the requirement that minimum volume rates be geared
to loading capacity, become immaterial. That view must
be rejected for the same reason as requires rejection, on
this record and until further buttressed, of the Commission's converse view that costs exclusively control and
competition becomes immaterial. Conceivably particular circumstances might make one or the other factor predominant and, in such a situation, the choice would be for
the Commission to make, upon a proper weighing of the
facts and opposing policies possibly applicable. Whether
in any case this contention of appellants could be accepted
may be doubtful. Certainly it should not be in advance of
further action by the Commission and then only in circum-

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

Opinion of the Court.

stances which would justify it as being in the public interest so clearly that no other view would be tenable.
Appellants also say that as a matter of law there could
be no unjust discrimination in the present circumstances,
since they insist there is no showing, upon the facts, that
different classes of shippers would be affected. On the
contrary they assert that all shippers actually are in the
same class and all are free to avail themselves of the alternative rates above 20,000 and 30,000 pounds, 47.5 per cent
and 45 per cent, respectively, as they please. But the only
bases for this assertion are, first, the absence of any finding that the availability of the 45 per cent rate, minimum
30,000 pounds, "would in practical effect be confined to
only a few or a particular class of shippers" and the further
assertion that no such finding could be made, since 30,000pound shipments of linoleum "are the normal units of
quantity purchase and sale as revealed by the railroad
carload rates which apply between the same localities only
on shipments of 30,000 pounds." Obviously, as the Commission noted, the mere existence of these rates in the
tariffs hardly could be taken to prove the conclusion appellants sought to draw from that fact. Certainly it could
not be taken as conclusive evidence. Whether or not,
however, the proposed rates in fact would operate to create
an undue discrimination between shippers, or classes of
them, is a matter upon which the record factually throws
no light. It is therefore one for further examination by
the Commission.
In returning the case we emphasize that we do not question the Commission's authority to adopt and apply general policies appropriate to particular classes of cases, so
long as they are consistent with the statutory standards
which govern its action and are formulated not only after
due consideration of the factors involved but with sufficient explication to enable the parties and ourselves to

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FhAKFRmTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

understand, with a fair degree of assurance, why the Commission acts as it does. Cf. United States v. Carolina
Freight CarriersCorp., 315 U. S. 475, 488, 489. Observance of this requirement is as necessary when an established policy is being extended to new and significant
situations as when a new policy is being formulated and
applied in the first instance. We do not undertake to tell
the Commission what it should do in this case. That is
not our function. We only require that, whatever result
be reached, enough be put of record to enable us to perform the limited task which is ours.
The judgment is
Reversed.
M1z JusTIcE Fm K uRTER, with whom the CHImE Jusand MR. JusTIcE REED concur, dissenting:

TICE

This case in its essentials can be reduced to simple
terms; in effect, the question is whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission acted unlawfully in holding unreasonable and discriminatory a proposed schedule of
rates for the shipment of linoleum in trucks operated by
members of appellants, associations of motor carriers.
The facts are these. On linoleum shipments between
points in New England, New Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, and New York, and destinations in Iowa, Kansas,
Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, and South Dakota, the
members of the Eastern Central Motor Carriers Association charged 50% of first-class rates, minimum 20,000
pounds1 This minimum is approximately the weight
which conventionally is a truckload. Railroad rates on
linoleum at this time were 70% of first-class for shipments
of less than 30,000 pounds and 45% of first-class for those
1 "F rst-class" is used to designate the rates applied to a class of

commodities. Percentages of a class rate are used as rates for desiguated commodities.

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

FRANxFYmTER,

J., dissenting.

weighing at least 30,000 pounds-a conventional railroad
carload.
By schedules filed to become effective August 24th,
1940, Eastern proposed rates of 47.5% of first-class, minimum 20,000 pounds, and 45% of first-class, minimum
30,000 pounds. The practical effect of this change would
be to require a shipper who could send only 20,000 pounds
of linoleum to pay a higher rate than one who could ship
a consignment of 20,000 and 10,000 pounds. And two
shippers, one with 10,000 pounds and the other with
20,000 pounds could combine their shipments at the lower
rate, while a shipper of 10,000 pounds who could not conveniently join with others would have to pay the higher
rate. These are the changes here in controversy. Upon
the protest of the western trunk line rail carriers, later
withdrawn when the appellants agreed that their 30,000
pound minimum rate would apply only on shipments
"received at and transported from the point of origin,
from one shipper in one day and on one bill of lading,"
operation of the proposed schedules was suspended and
Division 3 of the Commission held hearings to determine
their validity. Upon their conclusion, Division 3 found
that the proposed rates were reasonably compensatory,
but that it was physically impossible to load 30,000 pounds
of linoleum into a single unit of equipment, and that there
was no showing that operating economies result when a
30,000 pound minimum shipment involving a truckload
and fraction of another truckload is tendered. The Division thereupon concluded that a minimum weight greater
than a truckload is unreasonable unless such a rate is
justified by savings in cost, and ordered the proposed
schedules cancelled to the extent found unjust and unreasonable. 31 M. C. C. 193.
This decision was fully reviewed by the entire Commission upon oral and printed arguments by the motor car-

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKnMTER, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

riers, the linoleum shippers, and the National Industrial
Traffic League, a group organized to promote the free
interchange of commerce. The shippers and the Traffic
League urged the Commission to leave the order of Division 3 undisturbed, while the motor carriers sought to
justify the rates as legitimate means of meeting rail competition. The Commission agreed with Division 3 that
the rates were unreasonable and held that the 30,000
pound minimum, based on no difference in transportation
cost, would be discriminatory. 34 M. C. C. 641.
If the sole issue were whether there would be discrimination in favor of the 30,000 pound lot shipper as against
the 20,000 pound lot shipper, clearly the Commission could
find as it did, and the court below properly did not undo
what the Commission did. 48 F. Supp. 432. Is there
in fact more? The appellants contend that rail competition excuses and legalizes the discrimination beyond the
Commission's power to condemn. This Court does not
yield to that claim, but it does hold that either the Commission must state with particularity why the evidence
of competitive conditions in this record is so vague and
inadequate as to afford no justification for discrimination,
or, in effect, requires the Commission to proceed with a
full-dress investigation of the entire competitive relations
between motor and rail carriers.
The Commission, on the basis of the evidence before
it, concluded that "The competition between rail and
motor carriers for linoleum traffic does not constitute such
a dissimilarity in circumstances and conditions as to render legal the proposed discrimination." Prior decisions
of this Court surely do not require greater explication of
the reasons on which the Commission's conclusions are
based. See Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 74, 86-87; United States v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 293 U. S. 454, 464-465. The Commission did not
adopt an inflexible "principle that volume minimum rates

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

FR
IAKmFTER,

J., dissenting.

will be allowed only when geared to a capacity loading
which makes possible a real saving in costs of operation,"
if its statement that "The extent to which competition
between carriers may render discrimination and prejudice
not unlawful must be decided upon the facts in each case"
is to be accepted. Burke has said somewhere that he
could not imagine English law without the law reports.
Substantially the same considerations that call for giving
reasons in rendering judicial decisions apply to the determinations of such agencies as the Interstate Commerce
Commission. "We must know what a decision means
before the duty becomes ours to say whether it is right
or wrong." See United States v. Chicago, M.,St. P. & P.
R. Co., 294 U. S.499, 511. But we should not be more
exacting of reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission explaining its orders than we are of the opinions of
lower courts whose judgments come before us for review.
Nothing in this record calls for more explicitness than is
ordinarily demanded. For nothing in the record requires
the Commission to discuss the conceivable validity of proposed schedules which, aside from competitive conditions,
are manifestly discriminatory. Such discriminatory rates
were supported by a bare recital that railroad rates were
nominally lower than motor carrier rates and that the business of one motor carrier had decreased. At the hearing
before the Division, a representative of one motor carrier
stated that the proposed rates were more than adequate
to cover costs, that they did not vary substantially from
rates imposed on the shipment of other comparable commodities, and that railroad competition had caused his
company's linoleum business to decline. He also testified
that his firm competed for linoleum shipments with other
motor carriers. This is the proposed justification for a rate
differential concededly based on no difference in transportation cost or in service rendered and which therefore discriminates between those who ship 30,000 pound lots and
576281--44----18

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRAwxFURTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

those who ship 20,000 pound lots. And the record becomes
even more barren when it is noted that the competitive
conditions said to require adoption of the proposed discriminatory tariffs were not such as to prevent the rail
carriers' acquiescence in the adoption of the new schedule
when, on appellants' theory, the rail carriers had advantages intended to be mitigated by the new rates. The
Commission found that either 47.5% or 45% was an allowable rate for either a 30,000 or 20,000 pound shipment-either rate "was within the zone of reasonableness."
It thereby permitted the motor carriers to compete on an
entire equality with the rail carriers. But it forbade discrimination as between linoleum shippers equally placed.
What the appellants really complain of is not that they
cannot meet the railroad competition at the 45% rate on
30,000 pound lots, but that they cannot do so and yet collect 47.5% on lots of 20,000 pounds which are outside rail
competition. Be that as it may, a mere arithmetic difference between railroad rates and motor carrier rates is quite
blind. The rates themselves may not be at all revealing
on competitive conditions; they may not tell what a shipper gets for his money and what he is paying for. That is,
the quality of the service, the advantages of one type
of service over the other, the availability of equipment,
safety, labor cost, and many other factors may all give significance to the figures that figures themselves do not
give.
The present ruling apparently imposes upon the Commission the duty of pursuing such complicated and farreaching investigations every time a motor carrier rate that
may have a relation to a railroad rate is found to be discriminatory in relation to another motor carrier rate affecting the same commodity. Such an investigation is an
undertaking of vast scope involving consideration of factors which it would require an expert merely to catalogue.
The different characteristics of rail and motor carrier serv-

EASTERN-CENTRAL ASSN. v. U. S.
194

FRANxFURTER,

J., dissenting.

ices, the economic wisdom of excluding motor carriers from
large-bulk linoleum trade or limiting their participation in
such trade, the availability of other commodity shipments
to replace linoleum trade diverted to rail carriers, the availability of and cost of transporting commodities which
might be used to fill the truck only partially loaded with
linoleum-these are only a few of the factors which may
become relevant. Compare III-B Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission, pp. 572 et seq. The appellants introduced no evidence on the basis of which the
Commission could intelligently weigh these considerations. To hold that the Commission must on its own initiative embark on such an investigation in a proceeding
of this nature is to impose what may well be a crippling
burden.
To speak more particularly of the task which the Commission now faces, it should be noted that Eastern files
tariffs with the Commission for about 650 carrier members.
A typical commodities clause from the carriers' certificates
of public convenience and necessity provides for the shipment of "General commodities, except those of unusual
value, and except dangerous explosives, household goods
as defined in Practices of Motor Common Carriers of
Household Goods, 17 M. C. C. 467, commodities in bulk,
commodities requiring special equipment, and those injurious or contaminating to other lading, over regular
routes . . ." Thus it appears that the exceptions are
few and the allowable shipments many. An investigation
of the scope apparently required by the Court would entail
a detailed study of the relations of the rate structures in a
case merely involving the rates on specific commodities
one to the other. If rail competition turns out to be actually detrimental to the successful operation of appellants' linoleum business, the war-time load on the railroads
might become relevant, and the Commission might have
to decide whether the atypical circumstances at this time

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

justify competitive discriminatory rates which might
otherwise be unreasonable.
That the Commission is an expert body to which Congress has seen fit to commit the regulation of the intricate
relationships between the various means of national transportation is a well-worn phrase which ought not to lose its
significance in practice when the actions of the Commission come here for review. We should be very reluctant
to define for the Commission the occasions which appropriately demand investigation of general transportation
problems, and more particularly when a contest over the
rate on a particular commodity included in a network of
tariffs calls for such a general investigation. Surely it is
within the special competence of the Commission to put
on a discriminating carrier the duty of justifying by proof
his plain discrimination as to a particular rate and not permit him to compel the Commission by a mere assertion
to embark upon a far-flung inquiry. There are undoubtedly occasions when the Interstate Commerce Commission
will undertake such an investigation in the public interest.
But it ought not to be compelled to do so upon the occurrence, from an administrative point of view, of a more or
less accidental filing of a tariff revision. When the carrier
seeks to supplant a lawful rate, as is the case here, the
burden is on it to supply all the essential information to
justify the proposed new rate. § 216 (g), Part II of the
Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 316 (g). If it does
not do so, it has failed to sustain the duty cast upon it by
law, and the Commission in so finding has duly exercised
its authority. The Commission's dispositions of Molasses
from New Orleans, La., to Peoria and Pekin, Ill., 235
I. C. C. 985 and Petroleum Rail Shippers' Assn. v. Alton
& Southern R., 243 I. C. C. 589, are entirely consistent,
so far as that is relevant, with its order in this case.

