U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
Syllabus.

383

of the liquor by the Oklahoma enforcement officers is quite
irrelevant to our problem. "A question of public policy is
presented-not a mere adjudication of adversary rights
between the two parties." Weil v. Neary, 278 U. S. 160,
171. The abstention which equity exercises, as it should
here, under the short-hand phrase of the "clean hands
doctrine" is not due to any desire to punish a litigant for
his uncleanliness. "But the objection that the plaintiff
comes with unclean hands will be taken by the court itself.
It will be taken despite the wish to the contrary of all the
parties to the litigation. The court protects itself." Mr.
Justice Brandeis in Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S.
438, 485. It is hardly seemly for a federal court to order
the return of liquor seized with full knowledge by the
court that the carrier would use the liquor to share in the
commission of a misdemeanor. The penal statute here
applicable is a police regulation violation of which ought
not to be furthered by a federal court. While its violation
does not imply moral turpitude, Congress has required that
army officers should also conform to the law of a State on
which military reservations are located in matters that
are outside military concern.
UNITED STATES

ET AL.

v. WABASH RAILROAD CO.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 453. Argued March 8, 1944.C-Decided March 27, 1944.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing appellee railroads to cancel certain tariff supplements by which they
proposed to eliminate charges for spotting freight cars at the doors
of factories in the industrial plant of a manufacturing companybased on its finding that performance of the spotting service without charge would be an unlawful preference because a departure

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

from filed tariffs, in violation of § 6 (7) of the Interstate Commerce
Act--sustained. Pp. 405, 410.
2. The point in time and space at which the carrier's transportation
service ends is a question of fact to be determined by the Commission, and its findings on that question, if supported by evidence,
will not be disturbed by the courts. P. 408.
3. The Commission's conclusion in this case that the movement of
cars between the interchange tracks and points of loading and unloading was a plant service for the convenience of the industry, and
not a part of the carrier service comparable to the usual car delivery at a team track or siding, is supported by the evidence and
is binding on review. P. 409.
4. Section 6 (7) prohibits departures from the filed tariffs and it is
violated when carriers pay the industries for a terminal service
not included in their transportation service or when they render
such terminal service free of charge. P. 410.
5. The prohibition of § 6 (7) applies without qualification to every
carrier, and when the unlawfulness of the allowance or service is
shown by the conditions prevailing at a particular industrial plant,
it is unnecessary, in order to support the Commission's order, to
consider whether generally similar allowances or services at other
plants are, or are not, lawful under conditions prevailing there.
P. 410.
6. The finding of the court below that the manufacturing company
in this case was being discriminated against by the continuance of
free spotting service at other plants is irrelevant to any issue in
the present proceeding, which relates only to violations of § 6 (7)
and not to §§ 2 and 3 (1). P. 413.
7. While it is the duty of the Commission to proceed as rapidly as
may be to suppress violations of § 6 (7) in the performance of
spotting services, that is to be accomplished by an investigation
of the traffic conditions prevailing at each particular plant where
the service is rendered and not by comparison of the services rendered at different plants. P. 413.
8. The Commission is not required to suppress all violations of § 6 (7)
simultaneously or none. P. 414.
51 F. Supp. 141, reversed.

U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
403

Opinion of the Court.

APPAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges
setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Allen Crenshaw,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and Messrs.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, Robert
L. Pierce,Edward Dumbauld,and Howard L. Doyle were
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Elmer A. Smith, with whom Mr. Louis H. Strasser
was on the brief and Mr. Carleton S. Hadley entered an
appearance, for the Wabash Railroad Co. et al.; and Mr.
John S. Burchmore, with whom Messrs. C. C. Le Forgee,
Luther M. Walter, and Nuel D. Belnap were on the brief,
for the A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co.,-appellees.
Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,
announced by AIR. JUSTICE ROBERTS.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, in a report and
order supplemental to its main report in Ex parte 104,
Practicesof CarriersAffecting OperatingRevenues or Expenses, Part II, Terminal Services, 209 I. C. C. 11, has
directed appellee railroads to cancel certain tariff supplements by which they propose to eliminate charges for spotting freight cars at the doors of factories in the industrial
plant of appellee Staley Manufacturing Co., at Decatur,
Illinois. The Commission based its order upon a finding
that the performance without charge of the spotting service would be an unlawful preference because a departure
from filed tariffs, in violation of § 6 (7) of the Interstate
Commerce Act. 49 U. S. C. § 6 (7). On appellees' petition the District Court for Southern Illinois, three judges
sitting, 28 U. S. C. §47, set aside the Commission's order,
51 F. Supp. 141. It held that the Commission's conclusion that the free spotting service rendered at the Staley

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

plant is an unlawful preference, was not supported by evidence, and that the Commission's order must be set aside
because it results in discrimination contrary to §§ 2 and 3
(1) of the Act, since it appears that similar free spotting
service was being rendered to Staley's competitors against
which the Commission had issued no order. The case
comes here on appeal under 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 345. The
principal question for our decision is whether, as the District Court thought, the order is invalid because it results
in a prohibited discrimination.
In Ex parte 104, the Commission initiated an extensive
investigation of the service rendered by interstate railroads
in spotting cars at points upon the systems of plant trackage maintained by large industries. After a study of the
conditions at some two hundred industrial plants to which
the rail carriers made allowances for spotting service performed by the industries, and at numerous other plants
where the spotting service was rendered without charge
by the carriers, the Commission found that the freight
rates had not been so fixed as to compensate the carriers
for such service and that the railroads by assuming to perform it, or pay for its performance by the industries, had
assumed a burden not included in the transportation service compensated by the filed tariffs. And it concluded
that the performance by the railroads of such service, free,
or the payment to the industries of allowances for its performance by them, is in violation of § 6 (7) of the Act.
The Commission, in its main report in Ex parte 104,
recognized that by railway tariff practice in this country
the rates on carload traffic moving to or from any city or
town apply to so-called "switching" or "terminal" districts
and entitle each industry within such a district to have the
traffic delivered directly to and taken from its site. By
this method of delivery and by use of private tracks of the
industry the railroads are saved the expense of maintaining more extensive terminal facilities, the service and cost

U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
403

Opinion of the Court.

of delivery within the switching district being comparable
to that of delivery on team tracks or sidings or at way
stations. But in the case of large industries having extensive plant trackage the Commission found that cars
hauled to the industry usually come to rest at nearby interchange tracks, after which the intraplant distribution of
the cars is made at times and in a manner to serve the convenience of the industry rather than that of the carrier
in completing its transportation service.
In determining in such circumstances the point at which
the carrier service ends and the service in placing the cars
so as to meet the convenience of the industry begins, the
Commission stated that the line of demarcation "should
be drawn at the point where the carrier is prevented from
performing at its ordinary operating convenience any further service, by the nature, desires, or disabilities of a
plant," 209 I. C. C. at 34. It added, "When a carrier is
prevented at its ordinary operating convenience from
reaching points of loading or unloading within a plant,
without interruption or interference by the desires of an
industry or the disabilities of its plant, such as the manner
in which the industrial operations are conducted, the arrangement or condition of its tracks, weighing service, or
similar circumstances, . . .the service beyond the point
of interruption or interference is in excess of that performed in simple switching or team-track delivery. . ....
209 I. C. C. at 44-5.
The application of such a test obviously requires an intensive study of traffic conditions prevailing at the particular plant at which the spotting service is rendered. It
is for this reason that the Commission, in carrying into
effect the principles announced in Ez parte 104, has found
it necessary to proceed to a series of supplemental investigations of the spotting service rendered at particular
plants. Accordingly the Commission made no order on
the foot of its main report, but following a series of sup576281-44----30

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

plemental reports, including the present one, each detailing the facts found as to the spotting service rendered at
the particular plant investigated, the Commission has
made cease and desist orders, applicable to that service, a
number of which this Court has upheld on review. See
UnitedStates v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S.
402; Goodman Lumber Co. v. UnitedStates, 301 U. S. 669;
A. 0. Smith Corp. v. United States, 301 U. S. 669; United
States v. Pan American Petroleum Corp., 304 U. S. 156.
In sustaining the Commission's findings in these proceedings, as in related cases, this Court has held that the point
in time and space at which the carrier's transportation service ends is a question of fact to be determined by the Commission and not the courts, and that its findings on that
question will not be disturbed by the courts if supported
by evidence. UnitedStates v. American Sheet & Tin Plate
Co., supra,408; United States v. PanAmerican Petroleum
Corp., supra, 158; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Hoboken Mfrs. R. Co., 320 U. S. 368, 378 and cases cited.
In this, as in its earlier supplemental reports, the Commission has examined the actual conditions of operation
at
the industrial plant in question, here the Staley plant, and
hasfound these conditions to be similar in typeto thoseheld
sufficient to support its orders in United States v. American Sheet & Tin PlateCo., supra,and UnitedStates v. Pan
American Petroleum Corp., supra
It made an extended
1The Commission examined the conditions at the Staley plant in
a supplemental report rendered May 22, 1936, in which it directed
the carriers, appellants here, to abandon the practice of paying allowances to Staley for the performance of the spotting service. A. E.
Staley Mfg. Co. Terminal Allowance, 215 I. C. C. 656. An action to
enjoin enforcement of that order was voluntarily dismissed without
prejudice as a result of this Court's decision in the Tin Plate, Pan
American Petroleum, and other cases sustaining similar orders.
Thereupon the payment of allowances was abandoned, and the carriers assumed the performance of the spotting services, establishing
a charge of $2.27 per car, later increased to $2.50. By schedules filed

U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
403

Opinion of the Court.

examination of car movements within the plant area of
the Staley Company, which extends for a distance of about
two and a quarter miles, includes some forty buildings
used in the manufacture of various products, principally
from corn and soy beans, and contains approximately 20
miles of track, having 18 points at which freight is loaded
or unloaded. It found that inbound cars are in the first
instance placed upon interchange tracks from which they
are later spotted at the points of loading and unloading,
a service requiring in numerous instances two or more
car movements performed by engines and crews regularly
and exclusively assigned to it; that the interchange tracks
are reasonably convenient points for the delivery and
receipt of cars; that the movements between the interchange tracks and the points of loading and unloading
are not performed at the carrier's convenience but are "coordinated with the industrial operations of the Staley Company and conform to its convenience"; that the service
beyond the interchange points is in excess of that involved
in switching cars to a team track or ordinary industrial
siding or spur, and is consequently not a part of the transportation service which ends at the interchange tracks.
Contentions of appellees based on a formal change of
control of the interchange tracks by lease from the Staley
Company to appellee Wabash Railroad executed subsequent to the Commission's report in Ex parte 104, are irrelevant to our present inquiry. After the lease, as before,
they continued to be used as interchange tracks and the
controlling question is whether the movement from the
interchange tracks to points of loading and unloading is
a plant service for the convenience of the industry, or a
to become effective December 15, 1939, the carriers proposed to cancel
the spotting charge. In the present proceeding the Commission has
refused to approve the proposed schedules, and has likewise refused,

after having reopened the proceedings in Staley Mfg. Co. Terminal
Allowance, supra, to modify its prior order. 245 L C. C. 383.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

part of the carrier service comparable to the usual car
delivery at a team track or siding. The Commission's
finding that it is a plant service is supported by evidence
and must be accepted as conclusive here.
Appellees make no other serious contention of want of
evidentiary support for the Commission's conclusion that
the carrier service ended at the interchange tracks and
the District Court found no such lack. Their contention,
upheld by the court below, is that the Commission's order
cannot be supported merely by the circumstances disclosed by the evidence respecting the operations at the
Staley plant, but that its validity must turn upon a comparison of the conditions at the Staley plant with those at
competing plants. They urge further, and the District
Court so held, that, as it appears from the record that similar spotting service is being rendered at competing plants,
the Commission's order compels appellees to discriminate
against Staley, contrary to §§ 2 and 3 (1).
This argument ignores the nature of the present proceeding which is to enforce § 6 (7), not §§ 2 and 3 (1). Section 6 (7) prohibits departures from the filed tariffs and it
is violated, as the Commission has pointed out, when carriers pay the industries for a terminal service not included
in their transportation service or when they render such
terminal service free of charge. This prohibition applies
without qualification to every carrier and when, as here,
the unlawfulness of the allowance or service is shown by
the conditions prevailing at a particular industrial plant,
it is unnecessary, in order to support the Commission's
order, to consider whether generally similar allowances
or services at other plants are, or are not, lawful under conditions prevailing there.
In this respect a proceeding under § 6 (7) is unlike proceedings under §§ 2 and 3 (1) which prohibit unjust discriminations and undue preferences. United States v.
American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., supra,406; United States

U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
403

Opinion of the Court.

v. Hanley, 71 F. 672, 673-4; compare Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501, 510-11. Since
under these sections acts or practices not otherwise unlawful may be so because discriminatory or preferential, it
becomes necessary to make comparisons between the different acts or practices said to produce the discrimination
or preference, in order to determine whether they are such
in fact and whether they are unjust or undue. Differences
in conditions may justify differences in carrier rates or
service. In determining whether there is a prohibited unjust discrimination or undue preference, it is for the Commission to say whether such differences in conditions exist
and whether, in view of them, the discrimination or preference is unlawful. See Barringer& Co. v. United States,
319 U. S.1, 7-8, and cases cited.
The Commission's decision here, and its finding of a
"preferential service," are not based and do not depend on
a comparison of conditions at the Staley plant with those
obtaining at others. By its fifth finding the Commission
found that the spotting service rendered at the Staley plant
was a service "in excess of that rendered shippers generally
in the receipt and delivery of traffic at team tracks or industrial sidings and spurs," and hence in excess of that provided for by the tariff rates. It concluded in its third conclusion of law that the performance of this service without
charge would result in receipt by the Staley Company of "a
preferential service not accorded to shippers generally,"
and hence would result in a prohibited refunding or remitting of a portion of the filed tariff rates.
The Commission, after pointing out that evidence was
introduced showing that spotting is performed without
charge at various plants, some of which compete with the
Staley Company, also found, "The evidence does not satisfactorily show that the circumstances and conditions under which the spotting is performed at such plants are
substantially similar to those at the Staley plant. If it

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

did it would only show the probability of existence of unlawful practices at such plants and the need for investigation in connection therewith." The District Court relied
solely on this evidence to support its conclusion of lack of
evidentiary support for the Commission's finding of a
"preferential service not accorded to shippers generally"
and to support its own finding that under the present order
Staley is being discriminated against. For this reason it
concluded that the Commission's order must be set aside.
We think that this is a mistaken interpretation of the
Commission's findings and misapprehends their legal effect.
If the Commission's reference, in its conclusion of law, to
"a preferential service not accorded to shippers generally"
means more than the statement in the fifth finding of fact
that the service is "in excess of that rendered shippers generally in the receipt and delivery of traffic at team tracks,"
it is obviously irrelevant to the present proceeding. For
it could not serve to foreclose the legal conclusion to be
drawn from the fifth finding that the free performance
of the spotting service at the Staley plant is in violation
of § 6 (7) because of the traffic conditions found to prevail
there. United States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co.,
supra, 406-7. But a reading of the Commission's report
and findings makes abundantly clear that it was not concerned with discriminations or preferences between the
Staley plant and others, such as are prohibited by §§ 2 and
3 (1); that the "preference" to which it referred was not
based upon a comparison of conditions at the Staley plant
with those of others, but upon an application to the actual
conditions at the Staley plant of the standards laid down
in its report in Ex parte 104, in order to ascertain whether
the service rendered there is in excess of that which the
carriers are obliged to perform by their tariffs.
As the Commission and this Court have pointed out, a
preference or rebate is the necessary result of every violation of § 6 (7) where the carrier renders or pays for a service

U. S. v. WABASH R. Co.
403

Opinion of the Court.

not covered by the prescribed tariffs. Davis v. Cornwell,
264 U. S. 560, 562. The Commission emphasized that no
question of discrimination or preference prohibited by §§ 2
and 3 was involved in the present proceeding when it found
that the evidence did not show that the circumstances and
conditions under which the spotting is performed at other
plants are substantially similar to those at the Staley plant.
and that if it did that it would only tend to show that the
practice was unlawful at the others as well. So far as the
District Court found that the Staley Company was being
discriminated against by the continuance of the service at
other plants, its finding is irrelevant to any issue in the
present proceeding which relates only to violations of § 6
(7) and not §§ 2 and 3 (1). In any case findings of discrimination or undue preference under §§ 2 and 3 (1), as
we have said, are for the Commission and not the courts.
And the Commission has found that the evidence does not
show that conditions with respect to the spotting service
at the Staley plant and those of its competitors are
similar.
While it is the duty of the Commission to proceed as
rapidly as may be to suppress violations of § 6 (7) in the
performance of spotting services, that is to be accomplished, as we have held, by an investigation of the traffic
conditions prevailing at each particular plant where the
service is rendered and not by comparison of the services
rendered at different plants. Appellees complain of the
Commission's long delay, some six years since the present
proceeding was begun, in investigating spotting services
rendered at the plants of Staley's competitors, but any of
the appellees have been free to initiate proceedings to
eliminate any unlawful preferences or discriminations affecting them if they so desired, § 13 (1), and no reason
appears why they could not have done so. There are
other modes of inducing the Commission to perform its
duty than by setting aside its order prohibiting a practice

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

which plainly violates § 6 (7), because it has not made like
orders against other offenders. The suppression of abuses
resulting from violations of § 6 (7) would be rendered practically impossible if the Commission were required to suppress all simultaneously or none. Section 12 (1) imposes
on the Commission the duty to enforce the provisions of
the Act. That duty under § 6 (7) would hardly be performed if the Commission were to decline to enforce it
against one because it could not at the same time enforce
it against all.
Reversed.
YAKUS v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 374. CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 7, 1944-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, held
not to involve an unconstitutional delegation to the Price Administrator of the legislative power of Congress to control commodity prices in time of war. P. 423.
(a) The Act, the declared purpose of which is to prevent
wartime inflation, provides for the establishment of an Office of
Price Administration under the direction of a Price Administrator
appointed by the President. The Administrator is authorized,
after consultation with representative members of the industry so
far as practicable, to promulgate regulations fixing prices of commodities which "in his judgment will be generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the purposes of this Act" when, in his
judgment, their prices "have risen or threaten to rise to an extent or in a manner inconsistent with the purposes of this Act."
The Administrator is directed in fixing prices to give due consideration, so far as practicable, to prices prevailing during a
*Together with No. 375, Rottenberg et al. v. United States, also
on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit.

