ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
342

Syllabus.

claims that have been allowed to slumber until evidence
has been lost, memories have faded, and witnesses have
disappeared. The theory is that even if one has a just
claim it is unjust not to put the adversary on notice to
defend within the period of limitation and that the right
to be free of stale claims in time comes to prevail over the
right to prosecute them. Here, while the litigation shows
no evidence of reckless haste on the part of either party, it
cannot be said that the claims were not timely pursued.
Regrettable as the long delay has been it has been caused
by the exigencies of the contest, not by the neglect to proceed. We find no basis for applying a state statute of
limitations to cut off the right of the Adjustment Board
to consider the claims or to absolve the courts from the
duty to enforce an award.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTiCE ROBERTS is of opinion that the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 137 F. 2d 46.

ANDERSON, RECEIVER, v. ABBOTT,
ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No.3. Argued February 8, 1943. Reargued January 12, 13, 1944.Decided March 6, 1944.
1. Upon the facts, held that shareholders of a bank-stock holding
company were liable for an assessment on shares of a national
bank in the portfolio of the holding company. Construing Federal
Reserve Act, § 23; National Bank Act, § 12. P. 356.
So held of shareholders who acquired their holding-company shares
by purchase as well as of others who acquired their holding-company
shares by transfer of bank shares.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

2. A judgment against the holding company in a prior suit by the
receiver of the national bank was not res judicata of the claim
against the shareholders of the holding company for the balance
due on the assessment. Nor by instituting the prior suit against
the holding company did the receiver make an election which barred
the subsequent proceeding against the shareholders of the holding
company. P. 354.
3. Findings in which the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals concurred, and in respect of which no clear error is shown,
accepted here. P. 356.
4. Where a transferor of shares of a national bank retains through his
transferee his investment position in the bank, including control,
he can not escape the statutory liability if his transferee does not
have resources commensurate with the risks of those holdings. In
such case, the transferor remains liable as a "stockholder" or "shareholder," within the meaning of the applicable statutes, to the extent
of his interest in the underlying shares of the bank. This result is
necessary lest the protection afforded by the double liability provisions be lost through transfers to impecunious or not fully responsible holding or operating companies whose stock is owned by the
transferor. P. 357.
5. Whether the transfer is made in avoidance of the double liability,
or for business reasons which may be considered wholly legitimate,
the result is the same, since in either event depositors are deprived
of the benefit of double liability. P. 357.
6. The holding-company device here used could be so readily utilized
to circumvent the statutory policy of double liability that the stockholders of the holding company rather than the depositors of the
subsidiary banks must take the risk of the financial success of the
undertaking. P. 359.
7. Stockholders of the holding company are bound by the decision
of the directors which determined, within the scope of the corporate
charter, the kind and quality of the corporate undertaking. P. 361.
8. That stockholders of the holding company may have claims against
an officer or director for mismanagement does not relieve them from
liability to the depositors of the subsidiary banks. P. 361.
9. The question of the liability of shareholders of a holding company
for assessments in respect of national bank shares held by it is a
federal question, unaffected by the law of the State of incorporation
of the holding company. P. 365.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

10. The innocence and good faith of investors in the holding company are not available to them as defenses in this suit. P. 366.
11. Courts will not allow the interposition of a corporation to defeat
a legislative policy. P. 362.
12. The liability of the shareholders of the holding company is to be
measured by the number of shares of stock of the national bank,
whether several or only fractional, represented by each share of stock
of the holding company; and the assessment liability of each share
of stock of the holding company must be a like proportion of the
assessment liability of the shares of the bank represented by the
former. P. 368.
127 F. 2d 696, reversed.

CERTIORAI, 317 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing the complaint, 32 F. Supp. 328, in
a suit by a receiver of a national bank against shareholders
of a holding company to recover the balance of an assessment of double liability on shares held by the holding
company.
Mr. Robert S. Marx, with whom Messrs. Frank E.
Wood, Edward M. Brown, Harry Kasfir, and John F.
Anderson were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. William W. Crawford made the original argument
and Mr. Allen P. Dodd the reargument-Messrs. Henry
E. McElwain, Jr., Richard P. Dietzman, James W. Stites,
Edward P. Humphrey, and Lafon Allen were with them
on the briefs-for respondents.
Mr. Henry M. Johnson filed a brief on behalf of Susie
E. Tellman and other purchasers of holding-company
shares, as amici curiae.

Mu. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The primary question in this case is whether on these
facts shareholders of a bank-stock holding company are
liable under § 23 of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U. S. C.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

§ 64, and § 12 of the National Bank Act, 12 U. S. C. § 63,
for an assessment on shares of a national bank in1 the portfolio of the holding company.
The essential facts I may be briefly stated.
BancoKentucky Company was organized under the
laws of Delaware in July, 1929. It had broad charter
powers in the field of finance. It was organized by the
management of the National Bank of Kentucky and of
the Louisville Trust Company-banking houses doing
business at Louisville. Banco perfected the desired alliance between them by acquiring most of their shares 2
in exchange for its shares. The Bank, the Trust Company,
and Banco each had the same directors and certain common officers. Some of the shareholders who made the
exchange also purchased additional shares of Banco stock
at $25 per share. Banco stock was also sold at that price
on the market to those who did not own any shares in
the Bank or the Trust Company. All told some $9,900,000
in cash was realized by Banco from the sale of its sharesabout $6,000,000 of which was financed on loans from
the Bank and from the Trust Company. Banco's stock
certificates stated that the shares were "full-paid and nonassessable." Its certificate of incorporation provided that
the stockholders' property should "not be subject to the
payment of corporate debts to any extent whatever."
The closing date for the exchange of shares was September 19, 1929. Beginning about September 25, 1929,
Banco acquired a majority stock interest in each of five
1Further

details concerning the financial transactions indirectly

involved in this litigation may be found in Atherton v. Anderson, 86
F. 2d 518, 99 F. 2d 883; BancoKentucky's Receiver v. Louisville
Trust Co.'s Receiver, 263 Ky. 155, 92 S. W. 2d 19.
2 The

shares of the Bank and the Trust Company had been earlier
transferred to trustees who issued Trustees' Participation Certificates.
It was these certificates which Banco received from the shareholders
of the two banks in exchange for its shares. The command which
Banco had over the underlying shares is described in Laurent v.
Anderson, 70 F. 2d 819.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

banks in Kentucky and two banks in Ohio, and a minority
stock interest in another bank in Kentucky. Of these
eight banks, two were national. The shares of the state,
as well as the national, banks in the group carried a double
liability.' The price paid for the shares in these banks
was about $11,500,000-of which some $6,500,000 was paid
in cash and $5,000,000 in Banco's shares. Not all of
Banco's funds were invested in bank shares. It acquired
for $2,000,000 a $2,000,000 note of its president It purchased 625 shares of a life insurance company for $25,000
cash. It purchased and retired 106,000 of its own shares
at a cost of over $2,300,000-some $275,000 less than
Banco received for them. It received dividends of about
$1,180,000 on the bank stocks owned by it and paid them
out at once as dividends on its own shares. It borrowed
$2,600,000 from a New York bank and paid back $1,000,000. With $600,000 of that loan it purchased from the
Bank certain dubious assets -a transaction which the
3 See Ky. Rev. Stat. 1942, § 287.360; Ohio Code Ann. 1940, § 71075. At or about the time of Banco's failure the shares in the other
banks were sold or disposed of at rather nominal prices. It appears
that the closing of the Bank was followed by heavy runs on these
other banks; and the local interests in most of the cities where the
banks were located were willing to support the banks to keep them
open if Banco would surrender control. Banco, it seems, was also
anxious to avoid double liability on those shares.
4The president of Banco was also president of the Bank. This
note was acquired in November, 1929, from Wakefield & Co. It was
secured by 60,000 shares of Banco stock and 22,500 shares of stock
of Standard Oil of Kentucky. Nothing was ever paid on the note.
Nothing was realized on the Banco stock. Some $440,000 was realized on the Standard Oil stock. In December 1930 the president of
Banco and maker of the note filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy. He was discharged. Wakefield & Co. made an assignment
for the benefit of creditors in 1931 and apparently no dividends have
yet been paid its creditors.
5
These were a Murray Rubber note in the amount of $580,000
and a note of Lewis C. Humphrey for $20,000-of which the bank
examiner had been quite critical for some time.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Kentucky court later set aside. BancoKentucky's Receiver v. NationalBank of Kentucky's Receiver, 281 Ky.
784, 137 S. W. 2d 357. It was negotiating for the purchase
of the shares of an investment banking house when that
house, the Bank and the Trust Company failed. That
was in November, 1930-a little more than a year after
Banco began its financial career. In November, 1930 a
receiver was appointed for the Bank and one for Banco.
In February, 1931 the Comptroller of the Currency made
an assessment on the shareholders of the Bank in the
amount of $4,000,000 payable on or before April 1, 1931.
And in March, 1931 the receiver of the Bank notified the
stockholders of Banco that he had demanded payment
of the assessment from the receiver of Banco and that he
intended to proceed against them for collection of the
assessment to the extent that he was unable to collect from
Banco. In October, 1931 the receiver of the Bank brought
an action against Banco as holder of substantially all of
the Bank's shares. He obtained a judgment (Keyes v.
American Life Ins. Co., 1 F. Supp. 512) which was affirmed
on appeal. Laurent v. Anderson, 70 F. 2d 819. Some
$90,000 was paid on that judgment. The receiver of the
Bank thereupon brought this suit against those stockholders of Banco who resided in the Western District of
Kentucky in which he seeks to recover from each his proportionate part of the balance of the assessment. Similar suits against other stockholders were brought in federal
district courts in other states. The Diptrict Court, after
a trial, dismissed the bill. 32 F. Supp. 328. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed that judgment. 127 F. 2d 696.
The case is here on certiorari.
I.
We are met at the outset with the contention that the
decision in Laurent v. Anderson., supra,holding Banco liable on the assessment, is res judicataof the present claim;

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

and that petitioner by bringing that suit made an election
which bars the present action. We do not agree. Either
the record owner or the actual owner of shares of a national
bank may be liable on the statutory assessment.6 Richm od v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27, 58; Keyser v. Hitz, 133 U. S.
13S, 149; Pauly v. State Loan & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606;
Lanztry v. Wallace, 182 U. S. 536; Ohio Valley National
Bank v. Hulitt, 204 U. S. 162; Early v. Richardson, 280
U. S. 496; Forrestv. Jack, 294 U. S. 158. A receiver may
sue both-partial satisfaction of the judgment against one
being a pro tanto discharge of the other. Ericsonv.Slomer,
94 F. 2d 437. And see ContinentalNationalBank & Trust
Co. v. O'Neil, 82 F. 2d 650. The basis of liability of each is
different-apparent or titular ownership in one case, actual
or beneficial ownership in the other. Hence the issues involved in each suit are not the same. See Reconstruction
Finance Corp. v. Pelts, 123 F. 2d 503; ReconstructionFinance Corp. v. Barrett, 131 F. 2d 745, 748. If the receiver
were barred from proceeding against one because he had
already proceeded against the other, creditors of banks
would be deprived of the full benefits of these statutes.
The wisdom of the receiver's first suit rather than the fixed
statutory liability would be the measure of their protection. There is no justification for such an impairment of
the statutory scheme. The rules of election applicable to
suits on contracts made by agents of undisclosed principals
6Provisions for the termination of double liability on shares of
national banks are contained in the Act of June 16, 1933, 48 Stat. 189,
and the Act of August 23, 1935, 49 Stat. 708, 12 U. S. C. § 64a.
7It is true that the court in Laurent v. Anderson, supra, stated that

Banco was "in every sense the true and beneficial owner" of the shares
of the Bank. 70 F. 2d p. 824. But it is apparent from the opinion
that the court was answering the contention that the trustees of the
participation certificates were responsible for the assessment. Banco's
defense was based on § 63 of the National Bank Act. It argued that
under that section only funds in the hands of the trustees were liable
That argument was rejected by the court.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

(PittsburghTerminal Coal Corp. v. Bennett, 73 F. 2d 387,
389) have been pressed upon us. But they have no application to suits to enforce a liability which has this statutory
origin. Cf. Christopherv. Norvell, 201 U. S. 216,225.
II.
The District Court found, and the Circuit Court of Appeals agreed, that Banco was organized in good faith and
was not a sham; that it was not organized for a fraudulent
purpose or to conceal enterprises conducted for the benefit of the Bank; that it was not a mere holding company;
that it was not formed as a means for avoiding double liability on the stock of the Bank; and that the soundness of
the Bank and its ability to meet the obligations could not
be questioned until after the formation of Banco. Some
of these findings have been challenged. But we do not
stop to examine the evidence. We accept those findings,
as they were concurred in by two courts and no clear error
is shown. Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United States, 260
U. S. 77, 86; Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464,
477. We conclude, however, that the courts below erred
in dismissing the bill.
It is clear by reason of Early v. Richardson,supra, that
if a stockholder of the Bank had transferred his shares to
his minor children, he would not have been relieved from
liability for this assessment. And see Seabury v. Green,
294 U. S. 165. That follows because of the policy underlying these statutes. One who is legally irresponsible cannot be allowed to serve as an insulator from liability,
whether that was the purpose or merely the effect of the
arrangement. A father who transfers his shares to his
minor children has not found a substitute for his liability.
See Weston's Case, 5 Ch. App. 614. It does not matter
that the transfer was in good faith, without purpose of
evasion and at a time when the bank was solvent. Early
v. Richardson, supra. The vice of the arrangement is

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

found in the nature of the transferee and his relationship
to the transferor. Cf. Nickalls v. Merry, 7 Eng. & Irish
App. 530. The same result will at times obtain where the
transferee is financially irresponsible. This does not mean
that every stockholder of a national bank who sells his
shares remains liable because his transferee turns out to
be irresponsible or impecunious. It is clear that he does
not. Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S. 42, 54-55. But where
after the sale he retains through his transferee an investment position in the bank, including control, he cannot escape the statutory liability if his transferee does not have
resources commensurate with the risks of those holdings.
In such a case he remains liable as a "stockholder" or
"shareholder" within the meaning of these statutes to the
extent of his interest in the underlying shares of the bank.
For he retains control and the other benefits of ownership
without substituting in his stead any one who is responsible for the risks of the banking business. The law has
been edging towards that result. See Hansen v. Agnew,
195 Wash. 354, 80 P. 2d 845; MetropolitanHolding Co. v.
Snyder, 79 F. 2d 263; Barbour v. Thomas, 86 F. 2d 510;
Nettles v. Rhett, 94 F. 2d 42. We think the result is necessary, lest the protection afforded by these double liability
provisions be lost through transfers to impecunious or not
fully responsible holding or operating companies whose
stock is owned by the transferor. Whether the transfer is
made in avoidance of the double liability as in Corker v.
Soper, 53 F. 2d 190, or for business reasons which may be
considered wholly legitimate, the result is the same. Depositors are deprived of the benefit of double liability in
either event.
Thus it is no bar to the present suit that Banco was
organized in good faith, that there was no fraudulent intent, that Banco was not a sham, that it was not a mere
holding company, or that the shareholders of the Bank
had no purpose of avoiding double liability. We are not

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

concerned with any question of good intention. The question is whether the parties did what they intended to do
and whether what they did contravened the policy of the
law. By that test it is clear to us that the old stockholders
of the Bank are liable. For they retained through Banco
their former investment positions in the Bank, including
control, and did not constitute Banco as an adequate financial substitute in their stead. Banco's asset position immediately after its sales of stock cannot be taken as the
measure of its financial responsibility. Its liquid condition was fleeting; the raising of the cash was but an interim step in the planned evolution of Banco as a bankstock holding company. It is the condition of Banco at
the end of the promotion which is significant. Banco
emerged as a bank-stock holding company. Technically
it was not merely such a holding company as it had other
interests and investments. But its main assets were stocks
in banks, stocks which carried double liability. Its other
assets--apart from the $25,000 of life insurance stockwere always highly suspect and dubious. In substance
Banco as a going concern had no free assets which could
possibly be said to constitute an adequate reserve against
double liability on the bank stocks which it held. It was
in no true sense comparable to an investment trust or holding company which holds bank stock in a diversified portfolio. If the small amount of life insurance stock be left
out of account, the situation is in point of fact not materially different from the case where the only assets held
were bank stocks carrying double liability. Such an arrangement, if successful, would allow stockholders of banks
to retain all of the benefits of ownership without the double liability which Congress had prescribed. The only
substitute which depositors of one bank would have for
that double liability would be the stock in another bank
carrying a like liability. The sensitiveness of one bank in
the group to the disaster of another would likely mean

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

349

that at the only time when double liability was needed
the financial responsibility of the holding company as
stockholder would be lacking. However that may be, the
device used here can be so readily utilized in circumvention of the statutory policy of double liability that the
stockholders of the holding company rather than the depositors of the subsidiary banks must take the risk of the
financial success of the undertaking.8
That is a basis of liability sufficiently broad to include
also the stockholders of Banco who had not been stockholders of the Bank. As we have noted, many of them
acquired their shares either for cash or for shares in other
banks. It must be assumed that in making those purchases or effecting those exchanges they knew what kind
of an enterprise Banco was. See Nettles v. Rhett, supra,
pp. 48-49; Anderson v. Atkinson, 22 F. Supp. 853, 863.
Circulars of the Chicago Stock Exchange, on which Banco's shares were listed, gave a plain indication of the nature
8

The history of bank-stock holding companies shows that their organizers were acutely aware of this problem and at times took steps
to protect the depositors of the subsidiary banks on possible assessments on the bank stocks. One holding company is said to have kept
"at all times an amount in cash or its equivalent equal to our aggregate stockholders' liability on the bank stocks owned by us." Branch,
Chain, and Group Banking, Hearings under H. Res. 141, 71st Cong.,
2d Sess. (1930) p. 1181. A similar method was for the holding company "to carry in its treasury a large reserve of readily marketable
securities which may be liquidated in order to make good any shareholders' liability that may be imposed upon the holding company."
Bonbright & Means, The Holding Company (1932), p. 331. Cf. Nineteenth Annual Report, Superintendent of Banks of California (1928),
p. 21. Another method of safeguarding the depositors was to make
express provision in the charter of the holding company that its stockholders were ratably liable for any statutory liability imposed on it
by reason of its ownership of bank stocks. Branch, Chain, and Group
Banking, op. cit., pp. 1042-1043; Barbour v. Thomas, 86 F. 2d 510,
513-514. Wisconsin provided for such a liability by statute. Wis.
Stat. 1941, § 221.56.
576281-44----27

360

OCTOBER TERI, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

of the enterprise." So did circulars of dealers. 0 And there
would not seem to be any doubt that the old stockholders
of the Bank were given at the time of the exchange a fair
9

"The BancoKentucky Company was organized under the laws of
the State of Delaware on July 16, 1929, with an authorized capital of
2,000,000 shares of $10 par value. The Company was organized for
the purpose of owning a controlling interest in state and national banks
located primarily in Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana. Its charter gives
it broad powers entitling it to engage in a wide range of investment and
other activities.
"The BancoKentucky Company has acquired, through an exchange
of stock, nearly 100% of the shares of the National Bank of KentuckyLouisville Trust Company, and in addition its stockholders have subscribed to 480,000 shares of its stock for cash. This cash will be used
for acquiring majority interests in other banks and for other corporate
purposes."
In listing its shares on the Chicago Stock Exchange it gave the
Exchange the following description of its business:
"(b) Primary purpose: To acquire control and operate Banks and
Trust Companies.
"(c) Nature of Business: This company has not engaged in the
business of investing and reinvesting in a diversified list of securities
of other corporations for revenue and profit, but has limited its activities to acquiring control of Banks and Trust Companies and the operation of same."
10 Thus a circular of Blyth & Co. stated:
"The BancoKentucky Company was recently formed to acquire and
hold controlling interests in commercial banks throughout the Middle
West. By charter, broad powers are conferred upon the Company,
so that all types of operations in the financial field are permitted but
no investments are contemplated other than controlling interests in
financial institutions.
"Upon completion of present transactions the Company will control
the National Bank of Kentucky, organized in 1834, the Louisville
National Bank and Trust Co., organized in 1884 as Louisville Trust
Company, both of Louisville, Ky., the Pearl Market Bank & Trust
Co., organized 1907, and the Brighton Bank & Trust Co., organized
1898, both of Cincinnati, Ohio, and the Central Savings Bank and
Trust Company, organized 1906, of Covington, Ky. In addition,
the Company has funds of approximately $6,000,000, which are expected to be used for the acquiring of additional banking institutions."

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

picture of the nature of the enterprise which Banco was
about to launch. Some shareholders of Banco claim the
right to rescind their purchases of its shares on the ground
of misrepresentations in the sale. But whether or not
such relief might be granted in some instances, it seems
clear that Banco's stockholders are bound by the decisions
of the directors which determined, within the scope of
the corporate charter, the kind and quality of the corporate undertaking. As was stated in Christopherv. Brusselback, 302 U. S.500, 503, "A stockholder is so far an integral part of the corporation of which he is a member,
that he may be bound and his rights foreclosed by authorized corporate action taken without his knowledge
or participation. Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S.56, 58." And
see Pink v. A. A. A. Highway Express, 314 U. S.201, 207,
and cases cited. The legality of the investments of Banco's funds for the most part is not challenged. It must
be assumed that they were not ultra vires. They fall indeed into the category of acts of directors which normally
cannot be challenged by stockholders. Cook, Corporations (8th ed.) § 684. These principles, basic in general
corporation law, are relevant here as indicating that the
stockholders of Banco cannot escape responsibility for the
inadequacy of Banco's resources merely because the choice
of its investments was made by the officers and directors-acts in which the stockholders did not participate and of
which perhaps they had no actual knowledge. The fact
that they may have claims against an officer or director
for mismanagement does not relieve them from liability
to the depositors of the subsidiary banks. Cf. Scott v. DeWeese, 181 U. S.202, 213; Lantry v. Wallace, 182 U. S.
536, 548-554.
Normally the corporation is an insulator from liability
on claims of creditors. The fact that incorporation was
desired in order to obtain limited liability does not defeat
that purpose. Elenkrieg v. Siebrecht, 238 N. Y. 254, 144

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

N. E. 519. See 7 Harv. Bus. Rev. 496. Limited liability
is the rule, not the exception; and on that assumption
large undertakings are rested, vast enterprises are
launched, and huge sums of capital attracted. But there
are occasions when the limited liability sought to be obtained through the corporation will be qualified or denied.
Mr. Justice Cardozo stated that a surrender of that principle of limited liability would be made "when the sacrifice is essential to the end that some accepted public
policy may be defended or upheld." Berkey v. Third Ave.
Ry. Co., 244 N. Y. 84, 95, 155 N. E. 58, 61; United States
v. Milwaukee Refrigerator Transit Co., 142 F. 247. See
Powell, Parent & Subsidiary Corporations (1931) pp. 7781. The cases of fraud make up part of that exception.
Linn & Lane Timber Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 574;
Rice v. Sanger Brothers, 27 Ariz. 15, 229 P. 397; Donovan
v. Purtell,216 Ill. 629, 640, 75 N. E. 334; George v. Rollins,
176 Mich. 144, 142 N. W. 337; Higgins v. CaliforniaPetroleum Co., 147 Cal. 363, 81 P. 1070. But they do not exhaust it. An obvious inadequacy of capital, measured
by the nature and magnitude of the corporate undertaking, has frequently been an important factor in cases denying stockholders their defense of limited liability.
LuckenbachS. S. Co. v. Grace& Co., 267 F. 676,681; Oriental Investment Co. v. Barclay,25 Tex. Civ. App. 543, 559,
64 S. W. 80, 88. And see Weisser v. Mursam Shoe Corp.,
127 F. 2d 344. Cf. Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, 310;
Albert Richards Co. v. Mayfair, Inc., 287 Mass. 280, 288,
191 N. E. 430; Erickson v. Minnesota & Ontario Power
Co., 134 Minn. 209, 158 N. W. 979. That rule has been
invoked even in absence of a legislative policy which undercapitalization would defeat. It becomes more important in a situation such as the present one where the statutory policy of double liability will be defeated if impecunious bank-stock holding companies are allowed to be
interposed as non-conductors of liability. It has often

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

been held that the interposition of a corporation will not
be allowed to defeat a legislative policy, whether that was
the aim or only the result of the arrangement. United
States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220 U. S. 257; Chicago, M.
& St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic & Commerce Assn.,
247 U. S. 490; United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26.
The Court stated in Chicago,M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic & Commerce Assn., supra, p. 501, that "the
courts will not permit themselves to be blinded or deceived by mere forms or law" but will deal "with the substance of the transaction involved as if the corporate
agency did not exist and as the justice of the case may
require." We are dealing here with a principle of liability
which is concerned with realities not forms. As we have
said, the net practical effect of the organization and management of Banco was the same as though the shares of
the Bank were held in trust for beneficiaries who were in
point of substance its only owners. Those who acquired
shares of Banco did not enter upon an enterprise distinct
from the banking business. Their investment in Banco
was in substance little more than an investment in the
shares of the Bank. They were as much in the banking
business as any stockholder of the Bank had ever been.
And they continued in that business through Banco which
as a going concern lacked assets adequate as a reserve
against the contingent statutory liability. Its stockholders were in point of substance the only source of funds
available to satisfy the assessments. For these reasons
the old group of stockholders must be held to have retained
and the new group of stockholders must be held to have
acquired liability as stockholders of the Bank.
To allow this holding company device to succeed would
be to put the policy of double liability at the mercy of
corporation finance. The fact that Congress did not outlaw holding companies from the national bank field nor
undertake to regulate them during the period of Banco's

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

existence can hardly imply that Congress sanctioned their
use to defeat the policy of double liability. It is true
that Congress later addressed itself to this problem and
in the Banking Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 186, 12 U. S. C. § 61)
established certain controls over them. In general, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System was
authorized to issue a voting permit entitling a holding
company to vote the stock controlled by it on certain
conditions. Apart from requirements for examination
and non-affiliation with securities companies, § 19 (a)
and (e), certain standards for financial responsibility
were established and holding companies seeking such
permits were granted a specified period of time within
which to meet those standards. Where the stockholders
of the holding company were liable for the statutory liability, a specified reserve of readily marketable assets was
required. § 19 (c). Otherwise, the holding company was
required to maintain free of any lien "readily marketable
assets other than bank stock"' in an amount equal to a
larger percentage of the par value of the bank stocks
owned. § 19 (b). It is apparent that Congress in that
Act protected its policy of double liability by prescribing
one standard of financial responsibility for holding companies whose shares were assessable by their terms and
another for those whose shares were non-assessable. 1 We
need not stop to consider what would be the measure of
liability in cases arising under that Act where there had
been no compliance with it. But if that Act had been
u As stated in S. Rep. No. 77, 73d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11: "The
affiliates of this type (holding companies) are prohibited from voting
the stocks of national banks unless they are willing to undertake to
accept examination by the Federal Reserve Board, divest themselves
of ownership of stock and bond financing concerns, and comply with
regulations designed to insure their ownership of sufficient free assets
to make sure that they can satisfy the double liability of their shareholders in case any of the banks owned by such a company should
go into the hands of receivers or be closed."

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

365

Opinion of the Court.

applicable to Banco and Banco had complied with it,
Banco would then have met the standards of financial
responsibility which Congress had prescribed as adequate
for the depositors. Yet the fact that Congress later
wrote specific standards into the law means no more than
a recognition on its part of an evil and a fashioning by it
of a specific remedy. It can hardly mean that Congress
by its earlier silence had sanctioned the use of the holding
company to defeat the protection which it had provided
for depositors of national banks. The legislative policy
which Congress had long announced was the policy of
double liability. It is that policy with which we are here
concerned. It is that policy, declared by Congress, which
the judicial power may appropriately protect in the way
we have indicated, in absence of a choice by Congress of
another method.
It is of course true that Delaware created this corporation. But the question of liability for these assessments
is a federal question. The policy underlying a federal
statute may not be defeated by such an assertion of state
power. Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S. 197, 349; Seabury v. Green, supra. The spectre
of unlimited liability for stockholders has been raised.
But there is no cause for alarm. Barring conflicting federal incorporation statutes, Delaware may choose such
rules of limitation on the liability of stockholders of her
corporations as she desires. And those laws are enforceable in federal courts under the rule of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64. But no State may endow its corporate creatures with the power to place themselves
above the Congress of the United States and defeat the
federal policy concerning national banks which Congress
has announced. We are concerned here with that problem and with that problem alone.
The result which we reach may be harsh to some of the
stockholders of Banco. But rules of liability are usually

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

harsh especially where they are not bottomed on fault.
Thus private investors have frequently found contrary
to their expectation or understanding that they purchased
with their investment an unlimited liability for the debts
of the enterprise. Thompson v. Schmitt, 115 Tex. 53, 274
S. W. 554; Frost v. Thompson, 219 Mass. 360, 106 N. E.
1009; Weber Engine Co. v. Alter, 120 Kan. 557, 245 P. 143;
Rand v. Morse, 289 F. 339. It has never been supposed,
however, that the innocence and good faith of investors
were barriers to such suits. Horgan v. Morgan,233 Mass.
381,385,124 N. E. 32. Nor can we accede to the suggestion
that those defenses should be available here. The policy
underlying double liability is an exacting one. Its defeat
cannot be encouraged through the utilization of financial
devices which put a premium on ignorance.
The suggestion that there should be no liability without
fault unless a statute establishes it denies the whole history of the judicial process in shaping the rules of vicarious liability. The liability of a master for the torts of
his servant certainly started from no such foundation.
And the rules which made those who purchased shares in
Massachusetts business trusts responsible for the debts
of the enterprise were evolved, with few exceptions, on
a common law, not a statutory, basis. Magruder, The
Position of Shareholders in Business Trusts, 23 Col. L.
Rev. 423. In the field in which we are presently concerned,
judicial power hardly oversteps the bounds when it refuses
to lend its aid to a promotional project which would circumvent or undermine a legislative policy. To deny
it that function would be to make it impotent in situations where historically it has made some of its most notable contributions. If the judicial power is helpless to
protect a legislative program from schemes for easy avoidance, then indeed it has become a handy implement of
high finance. Judicial interference to cripple or defeat a
legislative policy is one thing; judicial interference with

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

Opinion of the Court.

the plans of those whose corporate or other devices would
circumvent that policy is quite another. Once the purpose or effect of the scheme is clear, once the legislative
policy is plain, we would indeed forsake a great tradition
to say we were helpless to fashion the instruments for
appropriate relief.
In summary, we see no difference between the various
classes of stockholders of Banco which would support a
difference in their liability. Those who purchased stock
of Banco for cash were as much participants in the banking business as those who acquired their stock in exchange
for shares of the Bank. Together they shared the benefits of ownership of the subsidiary banks, including control. Certainly a sale of shares of Banco by the old stockholders of the Bank did not give those shares an immunity
bath. To draw distinctions between the classes of stockholders of Banco would be to make the protection afforded
by these statutes turn on accidents of acquisition quite
irrelevant to the concept of "stockholders" or "shareholders" on whom Congress placed this liability. One
simple illustration will make that plain. A purchases
shares of an underlying bank for $10,000 in cash and exchanges those shares for shares of Banco. B hands over
to Banco $10,000, Banco purchases the shares of the underlying bank, and then issues its shares lo B. From the
practical point of view A and B are investors of the same
class. To say that A is liable and B not liable when both
start with cash and end with identical investments is to
make the difference between liability and no liability turn
on distinctions which have no apparent relevancy to the
legislative policy which the rule of double liability was
designed to protect. And to say that courts may hold A
liable but not B is to make the occasions for the assertion
of judicial power turn on whimsical circumstances.
The final suggestion is that the old stockholders of the
Bank remain liable for the full assessment on the shares

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

of the Bank which they exchanged for shares of Banco.
But that overlooks the fact that their interest in those
underlying shares was diluted by the issuance of Banco's
shares to others.' Double liability is an incidence of
ownership. It has long been held that a stockholder who
in good faith parts with all his interest in the shares rids
himself of that double liability, even though his transferee is not responsible. Earlev. Carson,supra. We could
hardly adhere to that principle and still hold the old stockholders of the Bank liable for the full assessment on the
shares which they exchanged for shares of Banco. The
other stockholders of Banco acquired through their investment in it an interest in the shares of the Bank. To the
extent of that interest the beneficial ownership of the old
stockholders of the Bank in its shares was as definitely
reduced as if they had made a transfer of that part of their
holdings.
Certain stockholders of Banco claim that they are entitled to rescind their purchases of Banco's shares because
of misrepresentations made to them when they acquired
the shares. We do not reach those questions. Nor do we
stop to determine whether such a defense would avoid
liability on the assessment (cf. Oppenheimer v. Harriman
National Bank & Trust Co., 301 U. S. 206) and, unlike
the case where some shareholders are insolvent (United
States v. Knox, 102 U. S. 422, 425), increase the pro rata
liability of the other shareholders of Banco. It is sufficient at this time to state that the liability of the shareholders of Banco would be measured by the number of
12

The old stockholders of the Bank have a lesser interest in the

shares of the Bank than they had prior to the exchange. Their interest in the shares of the Bank decreased proportionately with the
increase in the outstanding stock of Banco. That resulted in a pro
rata reduction in their liability. The other group of stockholders of
Banco acquired that portion of the liability of which the old stockholders of the Bank were relieved.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
JAcKSoN, J., dissenting.

349

shares of stock of the Bank, whether several or only fractional, represented by each share of stock of Banco; and
that the assessment liability of each share of stock of
Banco would be a like proportion of the assessment liability of the shares of the Bank represented by the former.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
AbTh.

JusicF. JACKSON, dissenting:

M .JUSTICE
and I find ourselves unable to join in the

Mit. JUSTICE R OBERTS, MR. JusUTIcE REED,
FRAlvxFURTE,

judgment of the Court.
The Court accepts concurrent findings of fact by the
two lower courts, but reverses their concurrent judgment.
It holds that the findings establish liability as matter of
law on two very different kinds of stockholdings: (1) holding company stock taken in exchange for double liability
stock of the National Bank of Kentucky; and (2) holding
company stock bought and fully paid for in cash. We
think holders of the latter are not liable on any principle
heretofore known to the law and that if owners of the
former are to be held it must be on a quite different principle than that stated by the Court.
I.
Former National Bank of Kentucky stockholders had
stock in the Bank itself which carried double liability.1
1The pertinent sections of the Bank Act follow:
"The shareholders of every national banking association shall be held
individually responsible ... for all contracts, debts, and engagements
of such association, to the extent of the amount of their stock therein,
at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such
shares; . . ." 12 U.S. 0. § 63.
"The stockholders of every national banking association shall be held
individual responsible for all contracts, debts, and engagements of

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

The Bank failed November 30, 1930, and if they had then
held that stock, each would have been liable for assessment upon his shares. The aggregate assessment was
$4,000,000. Only about a year before the failure, on September 19, 1929, this double-liability bank stock was exchanged for shares of the holding company purporting
to be fully paid and nonassessable. At the same time
Bank of Kentucky stockholders also bought additional
holding company stock for cash to the amount of $4,471,950. Bank of Kentucky stockholders as a group thus paid
into the holding company cash more than sufficient to meet
the assessment now levied. In addition to that, investors
who were not connected with the Bank bought shares for
cash amounting to $5,397,000. The Court nevertheless
holds that the Bank of Kentucky stockholders contravened the policy of the law and are subject to the double
liability because they "did not constitute Banco as an adequate financial substitute in their stead." We do not see
how such a statement of fact, and it certainly is not a matter of law, can be conformable with acceptance of the findings of fact of the courts below. Nor are we able to reconcile the view that "the old group of stockholders must
be held to have retained . . . liability as stockholders
of the Bank" with the one later expressed that their interest was "diluted" so as to give them a pro rata reducsuch association, each to the amount of his stock therein, at the par
value thereof in addition to the amount invested in such stock. The
stockholders in any national banking association who shall have transferred their shares or registered the transfer thereof within sixty
days next before the date of the failure of such association to meet its
obligations, or with knowledge of such impending failure, shall be liable
to the same extent as if they had made no such transfer, to the extent
that the subsequent transferee fails to meet such liability; but this provision shall not be construed to affect in any way any recourse which
such shareholders might otherwise have against those in whose names
such shares are registered at the time of such failure." 12 U. S. C.

§64.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

JlcxsoN, J., dissenting.

tion of liability. (See note 12 of the opinion of the Court.)
(Emphasis supplied.) It seems to us that the transfer
of their bank stock to the holding company either was
valid, in which case it relieved of all liability; or it was invalid, in which case it relieved of no liability. The doctrine that a transfer may be good enough to dilute liability but bad enough to carry along a part of it is new to us
and we have difficulty grasping its implications.
We are, however, agreed that it would be a proper use
of the power of this Court for it to examine the evidence
that lies back of these findings and determine whether
clear error has been committed and whether the conditions
disclosed are such that a bonw fide transfer of the stock took
place sufficient to shake off double-liability obligations.
In spite of the exchange of National Bank of Kentucky
stock, its stockholders through the holding company kept
both a large measure of control of the Bank and the benefits of investment in it. They, or those acting in their
behalf, had determined the policy of the holding company,
had sponsored its representatives, and had selected its officers and personnel, including the manager who proved
to be false to his trust. There is evidence that the National Bank of Kentucky had for some time been under
criticism by the Comptroller for many of its loans and
some of its policies, although it is found not to have been
insolvent. The exchange did not consist of individual acts
but was a concerted movement, planned by the Bank management, by which the holding company absorbed all of
the stockholdings and all of the double liability.
The Court might properly, if examination of the evidence should warrant it, reach a legal conclusion that the
double liability of the stockholders of the National Bank
of Kentucky survives the exchange and that those who
have continued their interest in the Bank through the
holding company are liable upon assessment in the same
manner and to the extent that they would have been had

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U.S.

the holding company transactions never occurred. But
this would be because the formal transfer of the stock out
of their own names would not be recognized as a defense.
The Court's conclusion rests on a quite different theory.
It concludes that the transfer was valid to relieve these
stockholders of their liability as stockholders of the Bank,
but that they became subject to a new and smaller liability
as stockholders of a holding company. With this we cannot agTee. The holding company, its financing, its management, and all that relates to it constitute relevant material as to whether under principles that have long been
recognized the transfer is good. We do not think they
create a new liability.
II.
After holding that former owners of National Bank of
Kentucky shares are liable because they did not find an
adequate substitute for their own personal liability, the
Court proceeds to hold purchasers of holding-company
stock for cash to be under a substituted liability pro tanto.
The grounds upon which Bank of Kentucky stockholders
and non-Bank of Kentucky stockholders are both held
seem to conflict. If the new stockholders for cash are
liable it is hard to see why the old ones have not found a
substitute, and if the Bank of Kentucky stockholders have
not found a substitute, it is difficult to see a basis on which
the new stockholders are liable.
Stock purchasers for cash have at no time owned a stock
that purported to carry double liability. On the contrary,
by the terms of the stock certificates and by the law of the
corporation's being, their shares were fully paid and nonassessable. These stockholders cannot be said in any way
to have assumed any express or implied contractual assessment liability. No statute of the United States and no
applicable state statute then or since has purported to inpose a double liability upon these holding-company shares.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

373

JAcKSON, J., dissenting.

No controlling precedent in this Court at the time these
stockholders purchased or since (until today)
purported
2
shares.
such
to
liability
double
a
attach
to
2

The authorities cited to support the Court's disregard of the corporate entity fall far short of persuasion. The quotation of the statement by Mr. Justice Cardozo from Berkey v. Third Ave. Ry. Co., 244
N. Y. 84,155 N. E. 58, 61, "that a surrender of that principle of limited
liability would be made 'when the sacrifice is essential to the end that
some accepted public policy may be defended or upheld"' has a very
different significance in its context. The facts, including interchangeable names of parent and subsidiary, complete financial and operating
domination, and use of one company's assets by the other, indicated a
stronger case for disregard of the corporate fiction than do the findings
here. Nevertheless, Chief Judge Cardozo considered that the corporate entity could not be disregarded in favor of a tort claimant and
said: "In such circumstances, we thwart the public policy of the State
instead of defending or upholding it, when we ignore the separation
between subsidiary and parent, and treat the two as one."
Other cases cited afford no more support for the decision. United
States v. Milwaukee Refrigerator Transit Co., 142 F. 247, held that
payments by a carrier to a corporation wholly controlled by a shipper
might constitute rebates under the Elkins Act. The statements in
Powell, Parent & Subsidiary Corporations, 77-81, are completely general and to be read in the light of the specific categories which precede
the page citation, all of which involve active wrong by a parent corporation. Linn & Lane Timber Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 574, involved the question whether an "instrumentality" corporation could
acquire rights which would enable it to stand better than its transferor-creator. Rice v. Sanger Brothers, 27 Ariz. 15, 229 P. 397, found
a corporation to be organized for fraudulent purposes and the former
partners who became its stockholders were held liable. Donovan v.
Purtell, 216 I1. 629, 75 N. E. 334, holds nothing more than that an
officer of a corporation who is personally guilty of fraud will be held
liable therefor. George v. Rollins, 176 Mich. 144, 142 N. W. 337,
stands for the proposition that equity will enforce a restrictive covenant
against a successor corporation formed for the purpose of evading it.
Higgins v. CaliforniaPetroleum Co., 147 Cal. 363, 81 P. 1070, held that
in the circumstances certain successor corporations assumed a lease and
therefore had to pay royalties; there was no disregarding of the corporate entity involved. Luckenbach S. S. Co. v. Grace & Co., 267 F. 676,

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U.S.

The reason given for this decision is that "the interposition of a corporation will not be allowed to defeat a legislative policy" and that "no State may endow its corporate
creatures with the power to place themselves above the

Congress of the United States and defeat the federal policy
comes nearer the mark, but still is far wide of it. A steamship corporation leased its fleet of vessels to a $10,000 corporation, formed and 90
per cent owned by it, for an utterly inadequate rental. It was held that
this turning over of the corporation's ships to a subsidiary which wuA
"itself in another form" rendered the parent corporation liable for thb
subsidiary's breach of contract. Oriental Investment Co. v. Barclay,
25 Tex. Civ. App. 543, 64 S. W. 80, allowed a hotel employee to recover
for personal injuries against the parent holding company, even though
technically he was the employee of the subsidiary operating company,
of whose existence he was unaware and which had been capitalized with
$2,000 to operate a property whose monthly rental alone was $1,500.
Weisser v. Mursam Shoe Corp., 127 F. 2d 344, arose on dismissal of the
complaint and it was held that on a full trial it might be found that
the subsidiary was "only a tool of the other defendants, deliberately
kept judgment-proof, to obtain the benefits of a lease with the plaintiffs
without assuming any obligations. The plaintiffs allege that this was
done fraudulently. . . ." Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295 and Albert
Richards Co. v. Mayfair, Inc., 287 Mass. 280, 191 N. E. 430, both dealt
with cases where parent corporations claimed priority over other creditors of a subsidiary; in each, the subsidiary was held to be an instrumentality of the parent and, to avoid a fraud on creditors, the latter's
claim of priority was denied. In Erickson v. Minnesota & Ontario
Power Co., 134 Minn. 209, 158 N. W. 979, a parent corporation was
held liable for damage caused by a dam owned by a subsidiary; the
parent paid the operating expenses of the dam, took all the earnings
of the subsidiary, had a mortgage on all its assets, ad in addition had
a direct right of control over the operation of the dam. United States
v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220 U. S. 257, and United States v. Reading
Co., 253 U. S. 26, held that a railroad's exercise of its power as a stockholder might amount to such a commingling of affairs as to make it
liable for a violation of the commodities clause. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic Assn., 247 U. S. 490, held that additional
terminal charges made by a wholly owned subsidiary as compared
with terminal charges by the parent might be held to constitute a
discrimination.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

JACxSON, J., dissenting.

concerningnationalbanks which Congresshas announced."
(Italics supplied.)
We have been unable to find that Congress ever has announced a legislative policy such as the Court announces.
And the Court nowhere points it out. The National Banking Act applicable at the time provided that the stockholders "of every national banking association" shall be
under assessment liability. But Congress nowhere has
said that the stockholders of a corporation that is not a
national banking association shall be liable to assessment
because the latter corporation held some or all of the
stock of a national bank. Indeed, the history of banking
legislation shows that Congress has considered the problems created by the holding company and not only has
failed to adopt such a policy as the Court is declaring,
but has made other provisions inconsistent with such a
policy.
No legislation on the subject appears until 1933, when
Congress enacted detailed regulation of the relations between holding companies and national banks. It required
the holding company to obtain a permit to vote national
bank shares and empowered the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System to grant or withhold the permit.' No permit can be granted except upon certain
3 § 19 of the Banking Act of 1933, amending § 5144 of the Revised
Statutes, provides in part as follows:
"...

shares controlled by any holding company affiliate

of a

national bank shall not be voted unless such holding company affiliate
shall have first obtained a voting permit as hereinafter provided,
which permit is in force at the time such shares are voted.
'For the purposes of this section shares shall be deemed to be
controlled by a holding company affiliate if they are owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such holding company affiliate, or held
by any trustee for the benefit of the shareholders or members thereof.
"Any such holding company affiliate may make application to the
Federal Reserve Board for a voting permit entitling it to cast one
676281-44----28

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JAcKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

conditions, and assumption by holding-company stockholders of an assessment liability is not among them. In
general, they are (a) that the holding company must
submit to examination in the same manner as the national
bank and must publish periodic statements of condition;
(b) that after five years from the statute's enactment,
each holding company must possess readily marketable
assets and free assets other than bank stock in a prevote at all elections of directors and in deciding all questions at
meetings of shareholders of such bank on each share of stock controlled by it or authorizing the trustee or trustees holding the stock
for its benefit or for the benefit of its shareholders so to vote the
same. The Federal Reserve Board may, in its discretion, grant
or withhold such permit as the public interest may require. In acting
upon such application, the Board shall consider the financial condition of the applicant, the general character of its management, and
the probable effect of the granting of such permit upon the affairs
of such bank, but no such permit shall be granted except upon the
following conditions:
"(a) Every such holding company affiliate shall, in making the
application for such permit, agree (1) to receive, on dates identical
with those fixed for the examination of banks with which it is affiliated, examiners duly authorized to examine such banks, who shall
make such examinations of such holding company affiliate as shall be
necessary to disclose fully the relations between such banks and such
holding company affiliate and the effect of such relations upon the
affairs of such banks, such examinations to be at the expense of the
holding company affiliate so examined; (2) that the reports of such
examiners shall contain such information as shall be necessary to
disclose fully the relations between such affiliate and such banks and
the effect of such relations upon the affairs of such banks; (3) that
such examiners may examine each bank owned or controlled by the
holding company affiliate, both individually and in conjunction with
other banks owned or controlled by such holding company affiliate;
and (4) that publication of individual or consolidated statements of
condition of such banks may be required;
"(b) After five years after the enactment of the Banking Act of
1933, every such holding company affiliate (1) shall possess, and shall

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

377

JAcxsOx, J., dissenting.

scribed amount; and (c) that after five years a holding
company whose stockholders or members are individually
and severally liable may be relieved of establishing a part
of this reserve under certain circumstances. Congress
was informed that some bank stock holding corporations
were, by the law of the states in which they were incorporated, subject to double liability just as were stockholders
of banks. It was also informed that other bank holding
continue to possess during the life of such permit, free and clear of
any lien, pledge, or hypothecation of any nature, readily marketable
assets other than bank stock in an amount not less than 12 per centum
of the aggregate par value of all bank stocks controlled by such holding company affiliate, which amount shall be increased by not less
than 2 per centum per annum of such aggregate par value until such
assets shall amount to 25 per centum of the aggregate par value of
such bank stocks; and (2) shall reinvest in readily marketable assets
other than bank stock all net earnings over and above 6 per centum
per annum on the book value of its own shares outstanding until
such assets shall amount to such 25 per centum of the aggregate par
value of all bank stocks controlled by it;
"(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, after
five years after the enactment of the Banking Act of 1933, (1) any
such holding company affiliate the shareholders or members of which
shall be individually and severally liable in proportion to the number
of shares of such holding company affiliate held by them respectively,
in addition to amounts invested therein, for all statutory liability
imposed on such holding company affiliate by reason of its control
of shares of stock of banks, shall be required only to establish and
maintain out of net earnings over and above 6 per centum per
annum on the book value of its own shares outstanding a reserve of
readily marketable assets in an amount of not less than 12 per centum
of the aggregate par value of bank stocks controlled by it, and (2)
the assets required by this section to be possessed by such holding
company affiliate may be used by it for replacement of capital in
banks affiliated with it and for losses incurred in such banks, but any
deficiency in such assets resulting from such use shall be made up
within such period as the Federal Reserve Board may by regulation
prescribe . . ." June 16, 1933, c. 89, 48 Stat. 186-7.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

corporations by the law of their incorporation were not
so liable.4 It did not expressly or by implication recognize
or create a uniform double liability by federal act on
stockholders of state-created holding companies. It made
specific provision, on the contrary, for each class of corporation. Where does this Court get authority to disregard the distinction Congress has thus created and to
impose a single rule of its own making instead? When
Congress has expressly set up a standard of diversification
4

At the Senate hearings which preceded the Banking Act of 1933,
Mr. L. E. Wakefield, vice-president of one of the largest bank holding
companies, testified as follows with respect to double liability:
"Mr. Wakefield. The stockholders of the First Bank Stock Corporation, being a Delaware corporation, do not have a double liability.
When we started to organize this institution we did all the work on
the theory we would have it a Minnesota corporation, which would
have double liability. At the last minute, when we found that every
stockholder in North Dakota, South Dakota, and Montana would, in
case of death, have a double inheritance tax, they complained so
strongly about that situation we shifted and put it into a Delaware
corporation.
"The other factor that we have heard discussed and that I think
of in connection with banking such as we are doing is this thought in
the public mind, or some minds, that, for instance, our being a Delaware corporation was intended to avoid the double liability of stockholders. I would say that if that is of importance it might easily be
provided that a holding company should create a surplus account in
its holdings or build up a surplus account of some proportion of the
capital of the banks that should be kept in liquid securities, or something of that sort .... " Hearings before Senate Committee on Banking and Currency Pursuant to S. Res. 71, 71st Cong., 3d Sess., Pt. 4,
pp. 616, 620.
Earlier, Mr. J. W. Pole, Comptroller of the Currency, had testified:
"Mr. Pole. We call that a group-banking system in the Northwest.
In the case of the Northwest and the First Bank Stock Corporation,
I think that their stock is not subject to the double liability, although
the stock of some holding corporations is subject to double liability.
But in the case of those two corporations, in those particular cases-.

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

JAcKsox, J., dissenting.

for holding company assets and has given the companies
five years to meet it, from what do we derive authority to
say the five-year adjustment period shall be ignored?
How can we say retroactively that there is a liability for
failure to do before Congress acted something which, after
it did act, it expressly gave five years to do? And how can
such a result be said to be an enforcement of congressional
policy, which we understand to be the basis of the Court's
opinion?

III.

If to legislate were the province of this Court, we would
be at liberty candidly to exercise discretion toward the
not that it obtains too generally-they have invested in securities other
than bank stocks, so that a judgment against either one of those corporations would be good for the assessment.
Mr. Willis. In those particular cases?
Mr. Pole. In those particular cases; yes, sir.
Mr. Willis. But there are cases where they are not subject to the
assessment?
Mr. Pole. There are cases where they are not subject to the assessment; yes, and where they hold nothing but bank stocks.
MIr. Willis. In those cases where you have an affiliated bank that
buys all the stock of the bank itself, what becomes of the double
liability of the shareholder?
Mr. Pole. The securities company where it buys the stock of the
bank itself, would be the holder of the stock and subject to assessment.
Mr. Willis. Is not the double liability then very largely neutralized?
Mr. Pole. Yes.
Mr. Willis. What have you done to correct that?
Mr. Pole. We have done nothing to correct it.
Mr. Willis. What can be done by law to correct it?
Mr. Pole. That is a big problem.
Mr. Willis. Can you make a recommendation covering that along
with your other problems?
Mr. Pole. Yes."
Senate Hearings, supra,Part 1, pp. 27-28.
For a provision extending double liability to holding-company stockholders, see Wisconsin Stat. (1943) § 221.56 (3).

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JAcxSoN, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

undoing of the holding company. Some of us feel that as
utilized in this country it is, with a few exceptions, a
menace to responsible management and to sound finance,
shifting control of local institutions to absentee managements and centralizing in few hands control of assets and
enterprises bigger than they are able well to manageviews which are matters of record.'
But we are of one opinion that no such latitude is confided to judges as here is exercised. We are dealing with
a variety of liability without fault. The Court is professing to impose it, not as a matter of judge-made law, but
as a matter of legislative policy, and it cannot cite so much
as a statutory hint of such a policy. The Court is not
enforcing a policy of Congress; it is competing with Congress in creating new regulations in banking, a field peculiarly within legislative rather than judicial competence.
Nor was such a policy of assessment liability one whose
importance was so transcending as to set aside the policy
of permitting corporate enterprise under limited liability.
Congress has since repealed the double liability, even of
holders of stock in national banks; 6 and when in force, it
had little practical value to depositors.' States also have
5
See 56 Reports of American Bar Association (1931) p. 763; Briefs
for Government in Electric Bond & Share Co. v. S. E. 0., 303 U. S.
419; testimony in support of a proposal to withdraw from holding
companies tax exemption of intercorporate dividends, Hearings
before Senate Committee on Finance, on H. R. 8974, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 221, et seq.
6The removal of liability is conditioned upon giving the notice prescribed. June 16, 1933, c. 89, § 22, 48 Stat. 189, Aug. 23, 1935, c. 614,
§ 304, 49 Stat. 708; 12 U. S. C. § 64a.
7Comptroller Pole stated at the Senate hearings: "We hear a good
deal about double liability. It is not so important as at first one might
so regard it. As an illustration, the deposits, we will say, of a bank
with $100,000 capital would be ordinarily $1,000,000. If you collected the entire 10 per cent assessment, you only would collect 10
per cent of your deposits after all ....
But in practice you would not

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
349

JAcxsoN, J., dissenting.

abandoned the assessment plan.' Courts should, of
course, see that the congressional policy is not defeated
by any fraud, by creating sham corporations, or by any
other artifice. When, however, assessment liability is a
failure only because the corporate owner of the stock is
not solvent, that is not a circumstance which will warrant
disregard of the corporate entity so as to render stockholders liable. The findings here, accepted by the Court,
eliminate every charge of fraud, bad faith, or intentional
evasion of liability.9
We are fully agreed that Bank of Kentucky depositors,
however, should not be prejudiced by a transfer to the
holding company of its stock in violation of letter or spirit
collect over 50 per cent of that. We do collect, as a matter of fact,
just about 50 per cent." Hearings, supranote 4, Pt. 1, p. 28.
Depositors in the bank have already received 77 per cent of their deposits. Few pre-depression investments have yielded so much. About
6,000 stockholders of Banco have lost 100 per cent of their investment,
and are now faced with liability in undetermined amounts. As to
many of them, it is idle to say that they had actual responsibility for
the Bank's management or any better knowledge of its affairs than
the depositors.
' Within the last decade at least thirty-one states which formerly had
double liability have abolished it either absolutely or upon compliance
with certain conditions. Only five states appear to have retained
their double liability provisions intact, and in one of these a proposal to abolish it is currently bcing considered. See "Stockholders'
Double Liability," Commerce Clearing House State Banking Law
Service, Vol. II.
9Findings of the trial court included the following:
"61. Banco was organized in good faith.
62. Banco was 'certainly not a sham.'
63. Banco was 'not organized for a fraudulent purpose or to conceal
secret or sinister enterprises conducted for the benefit of the Bank.'
64. Banco was not a mere holding company.
65. Banco 'was formed for the purpose set out in the letter of July
19, 1929, and for no other purpose.
66. Banco 'was not formed as a medium or agency through which to
avoid double liability on the stock of the Bank.'"

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JAcKsoN, J., dissenting.

321 U. &

of the National Banking Act. If the case warrants disregard of the transfer, the depositors then would have
just the protection that they would have enjoyed had no
holding company intervened. The Court, however, makes
the holding company a windfall to bank creditors by extending the liability to persons never otherwise reachable.
We may disallow the holding company as a sanctuary for
stockholders escaping pre-existing liability without making of it a trap for unwary and unwarned investors.
To disregard the transfer of this stock, and to hold former stockholders liable to the same extent as if they had
made no such transfer, is the manner of proceeding indicated under proper circumstances by the National Banking Act itself. Instead of considering whether to disregard the transfer the Court disregards the corporate entity
of the holding company because it says these obligations arise from legislative policy. Even if we could find
such a policy, legislative liabilities are numerous. It is
probably a legislative policy that a corporation shall pay
all of its debts. The reasoning employed by the Court,
we should think, would leave it uncertain whether stockholders may not be liable for many other types of indebtedness. Congress, if the matter of banking reform were
left to it, could define the limits of vicarious liability at
the time it was imposed. The Court is leaving the limits
and extent of that liability so vague that a whole cluster
of decisions will have to be written to clarify what is being
done today. And meanwhile we know of no way that a
stockholder can learn the extent and circumstances of
stockholder liability except to give his name to a leading
0
case.1

The Court admits that the judgment is "harsh." Why
is it so if it is according to any law that was known or
1

lThis Court has considered the disregard of the corporate fiction
in Donnell v. Herring-HaIl-MarvinSafe Co., 208 U. S. 267, 273 and
Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, 24.

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
349

Syllabus.

knowable at the time of the transactions? To enforce a
double liability so incurred would be no harsher than to
enforce any contract obligation that had been assumed
without expecting it would result in liability. This decision is made harsh by the element of surprise. 1 Its
only harshness is that which comes of the Court's doing
with backwards effect what Congress has not seen fit to do
with forward effect.

JOHNSON ET AL. v. YELLOW CAB TRANSIT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 447. Argued January 6, 7, 1944.-Decided March 13, 1944.
Intoxicating liquors in transit from a consignor in Illinois to a consignee
at Fort Sill TMilitary Reservation were seized in Oklahoma by state
officers. The carrier instituted a proceeding in the federal district
court for the return of the liquors and to restrain further interference with their transportation to destination. Held:
1. The transportation of the liquors through Oklahoma violated
no law of that State and the seizure was illegal. P. 386.
2. Upon the facts, the purchase and delivery of the liquors were
not in violation of 10 U. S. C. § 1350. P. 388.
3. Applicability of the federal assimilative crimes statute is not
decided. P. 390.
4. Upon the record, the carrier, which had acted in good faith,
was not barred by the "clean hands" doctrine and was entitled in
this proceeding to the relief sought. Pp. 387, 392.
137 F. 2d 274, affirmed.
Il In authoritative studies made prior to the origin of this controversy which included studies of many of the cases cited by the Court's
opinion we are unable to find a trace or suggestion of the present theory
of stockholder liability for corporate obligations created by legislation. See Douglas and Shanks, Insulation from Liability through Subsidiary Corporations (1929), 39 Yale L. J. 193; Powell, Parent and
Subsidiary Corporations (1931), esp. Ch. III; Wormser, Disregard of
the Corporate Fiction (1927).

