OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

In the Falbo case we held the other day that "The connected series of steps into the national service which begins with registration with the local board does not end
until the registrant is accepted by the army . . ." 320
U. S. 549, 553. The line that was thus drawn-when
"the connected series of steps" has ended-seems to me to
be the line to draw between the civil and military status
of a registrant. In other words, when acceptance of a
registrant is communicated by the Army, the Army has
made its choice. The man is then in the Army. Such
was the ruling, and I believe the correct ruling, of the
court below. 135 F. 2d 505. According to the Court's
opinion, as I understand it, the Act itself does not draw
this line but Congress has authorized such a line to be
drawn by appropriate regulations. On that assumption,
I do not dissent.
EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 492. Argued March 8, 9, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. Upon review of decisions of the Tax Court, it is not the function
of the reviewing court to draw inferences from facts or to supplement stipulated facts. P. 563.
2. A decision of the Tax Court on review may be modified or reversed only if it is "not in accordance with law." P. 563.
3. "Interest" usually denotes an amount which one has contracted
to pay for the use of borrowed money. P. 564.
4. Upon the record, "excess interest dividends" paid by the life insurance company were not, as a matter of law, "interest" within
the meaning of § 203 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1932; and
the Tax Court's disallowance of their deduction as "interest on indebtedness" may not be set aside. P. 564.
5. Provisions of the Revenue Acts for deductions from taxes are
to be strictly construed. P. 564.
137 F. 2d 623, affirmed.

EQUITABLE SOCIETY v. COMM'R.
560

561

Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.733, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Tax Court, 44 B. T. A. 293, disallowing taxpayer's deduction of excess interest dividends.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. John L. Grant for petitioner.
Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., and
Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, L. W. Post, and
Robert L. Stern were on the brief, for respondent.
vfR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether petitioner, a mutual life insurance company, was entitled to deduct from
its gross income for 1933 "excess interest dividends" paid
within that year. The deduction was authorized if the
amounts were "interest" paid on "indebtedness"' within
the meaning of § 203 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1932,
47 Stat. 169, 225. The Tax Court denied the deduction.
44 B. T. A. 293. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
137 F. 2d 623. The case is here on a petition for a writ
of certiorari which we granted because the decision below
and Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Commissioner, 92 F.
2d 962, from the Third Circuit conflicted with Commissioner v. Lafayette Life Ins. Co., 67 F. 2d 209, from the
Seventh.
The facts are stipulated and show the following: During and prior to 1933 petitioner issued life insurance policies which gave to the insured (and in some cases to the
beneficiary) the right to have petitioner hold the face
amount of the policies upon their maturity under one or
more of several optional modes of settlement in lieu of
1This provision of the Act reads in part as follows: "In the case
of a life insurance company the term 'net income' means the gross
income less .. . All interest paid or accrued within the taxable

year on its indebtedness" with exceptions not relevant here.

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S

payment in a lump sum. These optional modes of settlement are exercised under supplementary contracts.
Thus one form of supplementary contract provides that
the amount of the policy shall be left on deposit with
petitioner. And it is provided in case of this, as well as
the other types of supplementary contracts which are
involved, that "if in any year the Society declares" that
funds held under these options shall receive interest in
excess of 3% per annum, the payments under them "shall
be increased for that year by an Excess Interest Dividend
as determined and apportioned by the Society." During
the year 1933 some $534,000 of excess interest dividends
was paid by petitioner under these supplementary contracts. The amount so paid accrued during the year at
the rate which had been declared by petitioner's board
of directors at the beginning of that year.
Petitioner's argument runs as follows: Nothing in the
supplementary contracts or underlying policies conditions
the payment of excess interest dividends on the existence
of a surplus. The policies and the statutes authorizing
their issuance negative the idea that the payment of these
excess interest dividends constitute a distribution of surplus or of earnings of prior years. Petitioner's declaration at the beginning of 1933 that it would pay excess
interest dividends in that year at a specific rate constituted an offer. Those who elected in 1933 to keep the
funds on deposit, rather than to withdraw the amounts of
the policies which had become payable during the year,
accepted that offer. It is reasonable to assume that but
for the declaration at the beginning of the year the new
supplementary contracts would not have been made. In
at least some of the cases where the funds were already on
2The other types of optional settlements involved here are instal-

ment options for a fixed period and instalment options in a fixed
amount.

EQUITABLE SOCIETY v. COMM'R.
560

563

Opinion of the Court.

deposit at the beginning of 1933 the beneficiaries could
have withdrawn them on demand. By refusing to exercise that right and by leaving the funds on deposit the
beneficiaries accepted petitioner's offer. And, it is again
asserted, but for the declaration of excess interest dividends, it is reasonable to assume that petitioner would not
have been permitted to retain and use those funds during
that year. As to funds on deposit at the beginning of
1933 and over which the beneficiaries had no power of
withdrawal, the argument is that the original promise
to pay the excess interest dividends, though conditional,
was a promise to pay "interest." I
While these are interesting questions which are propounded, the facts on which most of them turn were not
determined by the Tax Court. Its findings of fact did
not go beyond the stipulation. And it apparently was
not asked to go farther. It based its ruling on Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Commissioner, supra. It may be that
custom or a course of dealing or other circumstances would
warrant findings of fact which would support at least
part of the claimed deduction. But more proof is needed
than the provisions of the policies and the contents of the
stipulation. It is not our task to draw inferences from
facts or to supplement stipulated facts. That function
rests with the Tax Court. We may modify or reverse
the decision of the Tax Court only if it is "not in accordance with law." 44 Stat. 110, 26 U. S. C. § 1141 (c) (1);
Wilmington Trust Co. v. Helvering, 316 U. S. 164; Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489. We must make our
determination on the record before us. If relevant evidence was offered before the Tax Court but rejected by it,
we could remand the case to it for appropriate findings.
But no such situation is presented here. Accordingly we
3

The amount of funds in each of these three categories does not
appear, though petitioner has offered its rough estimates.

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

can reverse the judgment below only if we can say on the
basis of the provisions of policies and the meager stipulation that the excess interest dividends were "interest"
within the meaning of the Act4 as a matter of law.
The "usual import" of the word interest is "the amount
which one has contracted to pay for the use of borrowed
money." Old Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 U. S.
552, 560; Deputy v. Du Pont, 308 U. S. 488, 498. We
cannot say as a matter of law that the excess interest
dividends fall within that category. They appear to
be amounts which may be declared or withheld at the
pleasure of the board of directors. An obligation to pay
may of course arise after the declaration, the same as in
case of dividends on stock. But an obligation to pay
declared dividends on stock would hardly qualify as "interest" within the meaning of the Act. The analogy
of course is not perfect, as these excess interest dividends
may not be payable from surplus or earnings of prior
years and the obligation to pay the principal amount
under each option was absolute. Yet payments mnde
wholly at the discretion of the company have a degree
of contingency which the notion of "interest" ordinarily
lacks. If we expanded the meaning of the term to include
these excess interest dividends, we would indeed relax
the strict rule of construction which has obtained in case
of deductions under the various Revenue Acts. New
Colonial Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440: Deputy v.
4

Sec. 163 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 868, includes within the definition of "interest paid" the following: "All
amounts in the nature of interest, whether or not guaranteed, paid
within the taxable year on insurance or annuity contracts (or contracts arising out of insurance or annuity contracts) which do not
involve, at the time of payment, life, health, or accident contingencies."
The Senate Report points out that this provision was designed to
include both guaranteed interest and excess interest dividends. S.
Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 146-147.

NORTON v. WARNER CO.
560

Counsel for Parties.

Du Pont, supra, p. 493. Appropriate findings of fact
might well bring such payments within the meaning of
"interest," as for example a finding that their declaration was the basis on which new contractual engagements
were made. But such is not this case.
Affirmed.

NORTON, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER FOR THE
THIRD COMPENSATION DISTRICT, v. WARNER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 362. Argued February 28, 29, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. On review under § 21 (b) of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers'
Compensation Act, the court may not set aside a compensation award
deemed contrary to the weight of the evidence, but may set an award
aside only for error of law. P. 56S.
2. A barge, though without motive power, is a vessel within the meaning
of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, since
it is a means of transportation by water. P. 571.
3. Upon the facts of this case, held that a bargeman-though the barge
which he tended was without motive power and though he was the
sole employee aboard-was a "member of a crew" within the meaning
of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and
excluded from the coverage of that Act by §§ 2 (3) and 3 (a) (1)
thereof. P. 571.
137 F. 2d 57, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 729, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 45 F. Supp. 835, which dismissed a suit to set
aside an award of compensation under the Longshoremen's
& Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Mr. Melvin Richter were on the brief,
for petitioner.

