178

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

of sales and Bingo games and lotteries. All such moneyraising activities on a public scale are, I think, Caesar's
affairs and may be regulated by the state so long as it does
not discriminate against one because he is doing them for
a religious purpose, and the regulation is not arbitrary and
capricious, in violation of other provisions of the
Constitution.
The Court in the Murdock case rejected this principle
of separating immune religious activities from secular
ones in declaring the disabilities which the Constitution
imposed on local authorities. Instead, the Court now
draws a line based on age that cuts across both true exercise of religion and auxiliary secular activities. I think
this is not a correct principle for defining the activities
immune from regulation on grounds of religion, and Murdock overrules the grounds on which I think affirmance
should rest. I have no alternative but to dissent from
the grounds of affirmance of a judgment which I think
was rightly decided, and upon right grounds, by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. 313 Mass. 223.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and Mn.

JuSTICE FRAKFURTER

join in this opinion.

BROWN ET AL. v. GERDES T AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 183.

Argued January 4, 1944.-Decided February 7, 1944.

1. In a reorganization proceeding under Ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act,
the bankruptcy court has exclusive jurisdiction to determine the
amount which shall be allowed out of the bankrupt estate for services
of attorneys who, by authority of the bankruptcy court, represented
the bankrupt estate in litigation in a state court. P. 180.
2. The petition for reorganization in this case having been approved
subsequently to the effective date of Ch. X, the result is unaffected

BROWN v. GERDES.
Opinion of the Court.

178

by the fact that the petition was filed and the main suit in the state
court litigation was instituted prior to that date. P. 184.
3. Nor is the result affected by the fact that the litigation in the state
court was within the exclusive jurisdiction of that court. P. 185.
4. It does not appear here that the State has imposed conditions for
entry into its courts which are inconsistent with the authority of
the bankruptcy court. P. 186.
5. Assuming that the state court could decline jurisdiction of the suits
to enforce claims of the bankrupt estate, it could not take jurisdiction of them but fail to apply the federal rule governing the compensation of those who are employed by the bankruptcy court and
who represent it in the state tribunal. P. 186.
290 N. Y. 468, 49 N. E. 2d 718, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 722, to review the reversal of an
order of the lower state courts which fixed the amounts of
fees and liens for services rendered by the plaintiffs as
attorneys for a bankrupt estate. See also 290 N. Y. 868,
50 N. E. 2d 249.
Mr. William C. Scott, with whom Messrs. David Paine,
Lawrence S. Greenbaum, and Theodore S. Jaffin were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John Gerdes, with whom Mr. James D. Carpenter,
Jr. and Miss Mary-Chase Clark were on the brief, for
respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Chester T. Lane,
Homer Kripke, George Zolotar, and Theodore L. Thau
filed a brief on behalf of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.

MR. JusTIcm DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether the New York
court or the federal bankruptcy court has the power to fix
the fees of petitioners who as attorneys represented the
bankruptcy estate in litigation in the state courts. The

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

New York Court of Appeals held that that jurisdiction
rested exclusively in the bankruptcy court. 290 N. Y.
468, 49 N. E. 2d 718. The case is here on a petition for
writ of certiorari which we granted because of the importance of the problem under the Bankruptcy Act.
In January, 1939, a petition for reorganization of Reynolds Investing Co., Inc. was approved under Ch. X of the
Bankruptcy Act. 52 Stat. 883, 11 U. S. C. § 501. In August, 1938, while the petition was pending but before its
approval, the bankruptcy court authorized the debtor to
commence an action in the New York courts to enforce and
collect certain claims which the debtor had against its
former officers and directors. See 28 N. Y. S. 2d 622.
It also authorized retention of petitioners as counsel in
the suit. After the approval of the petition the respondent trustees were authorized to prosecute the action and
to be substituted as plaintiffs. That was done; and other
actions were instituted by the trustees under order of the
bankruptcy court with petitioners as counsel. In 1941
before final judgments were obtained in any of the suits,
the trustees discontinued petitioners' services. Thereafter petitioners, pursuant to a stipulation I which reserved respondents' right to question the jurisdiction of
the state court, instituted this suit in that court to fix and
enforce their liens on the actions under § 475 of the New
York Judiciary Law.2 Respondents' objection to the ju'Respondents sought an order from the bankruptcy court directing
petitioners to turn over their papers and memoranda. That motion
was resisted by petitioners who claimed that the New York court
had exclusive jurisdiction. Thereupon a stipulation was entered into
with the approval of the bankruptcy court whereby respondents withdrew their motion and petitioners agreed to insfitute a suit in the state
court for fixation of their liens, if any. The parties reserved their
right to question the jurisdiction of the state court or bankruptcy
court over the matter.
2

"From the commencement of an action, special or other proceeding
in any court or before any state or federal department, except a de-

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

risdiction of the state court was overruled, the value of petitioners' services determined, and the liens fixed. Those
orders were affirmed by the Appellate Division (264 App.
Div. 852, 36 N. Y. S. 2d 420) but reversed by the Court
of Appeals. And as we read the opinion of that court the
basis of its decision was that "exclusive jurisdiction" to
fix these fees was in the bankruptcy court (290 N. Y.
472, 473, 475), not that New York as a matter of local
law or policy would not undertake to fix them because of
the special circumstances of this case.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the power to
determine the amount of these fees rests exclusively in the
bankruptcy court.
Sec. 77B, like § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act,3 had as one
of its purposes the establishment of more effective control
over reorganization fees and expenses (Dickinson IndustrialSite v. Cowan, 309 U. S. 382, 388; Callaghanv. ReconstructionFinanceCorp., 297 U. S. 464,469) in recognition of the effect which a depletion of the cash resources
of the estate may have on both the fairness and feasibility
of the plan of reorganization. United States v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311, 333-340 (dissenting
opinion). And Ch. X of the Chandler Act which took
the place of § 77B set up even more comprehensive supervision over compensation and allowances (H. Rep. No.
partment of labor, or the service of an answer containing a counterclaim, the attorney who appears for a party has a lien upon his client's
cause of action, claim or counterclaim, which attaches to a verdict, re-

port, determination, decision, judgment or final order in his client's
favor, and the proceeds thereof in whatever hands they may come; and

the lien cannot be affected by any settlement between the parties before or after judgment, final order or determination. The court upon
the petition of the client or attorney may determine and enforce the

lien."
3See Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S.
648, 685; Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Bankers Trust Co., 318
U.S.163.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 45-46) and provided a centralized control over all administration expenses, of which
lawyers' fees are a part. Watkins v. Sedberry, 261 U. S.
571. Sec. 241 gives the judge authority to fix "reasonable
compensation for services rendered" by various persons,
including attorneys for the trustees. Allowances may be
made only after hearing and upon notice to specified persons and groups of persons. § 247. Where the reorganization supersedes a prior proceeding in either the federal
or state court the bankruptcy court is the one which is
authorized to allow the "reasonable costs and expenses
incurred" in the prior proceeding. § 258. In all cases
persons who seek compensation for services or reimbursement for expenses are held to fiduciary standards. § 249;
Woods v. City NationalBank Co., 312 U. S. 262, 267-269.
And § 250 contains special appeal provisions governing
orders granting or denying allowances. Dickinson IndustrialSite v. Cowan, supra. Moreover, a plan of reorganization must provide "for the payment of all costs and expenses of administration and other allowances which may
be approved or made by the judge." § 216 (3). In addition the plan must provide, in furtherance of the purpose of the Act to protect the security holders against previous acts of mismanagement and to preserve all assets of
the estate (S. Rep. No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 22;
H. Rep. No. 1409, supra,pp. 42-44), for retention and enforcement by the trustee of all claims of the debtor or
the estate not settled or adjusted in the plan. § 216 (13).
Finally, § 221 (4) provides that in approving any plan
the judge must be satisfied that "all payments made or
promised" by the debtor, the new company, or any other
person, "for services and for costs and expenses" are not
only fully disclosed but "are reasonable or, if to be fixed
after confirmation of the plan, will be subject to the approval of the judge."
Thus Ch. X not only contains detailed machinery governing all claims for allowances from the estate, It also

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

requires the plan to contain provisions for the payment
of all allowances and places on the judge the duty to pass
on their reasonableness. The approval of the plan of
reorganization has been entrusted to the bankruptcy court
exclusively. Even reports on plans submitted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission are "advisory only."
§ 172. It could hardly be contended that the bankruptcy
court might dispense with the finding required by § 221
(2) that the plan is "fair and equitable, and feasible" and
confirm the plan on another basis or delegate the task to
another court or agency. See Case v. Los Angeles Lumber
Products Co., 308 U. S. 106, 114-115; Consolidated Rock
Products Co. v. Du Bois, 312 U. S. 510. But if that cannot be done, it is difficult to see how a plan could be confirmed which left the approval of certain allowances to a
state court. The finding as to allowances required by
§ 221 (4) is as explicit and as mandatory as the finding
of "fair and equitable, and feasible" required by § 221 (2).
On each Congress has asked for the informed judgment of
the bankruptcy court, not another court or agency. In
the present case the plan of reorganization which was approved in 1940 gave the trustees full power to retain or
displace attorneys representing them; and it retained in
the bankruptcy court continuing jurisdiction over all
claims in favor of the debtor and the prosecution thereof.
And in accordance with the express requirements of § 241
(3) it left to the bankruptcy court the power to fix the
"reasonable compensation" to be paid the attorneys of the
trustees. Those requirements, prescribed by the Act,
cause any conflicting procedure in the state courts to give
way.' Kalb v. Feuerstein,308 U. S. 433. The jurisdiction which Congress has conferred on the bankruptcy
4 The submission of the matter to the state court with objections to

its jurisdiction was a procedure which gave that "due regard for
comity" suggested by the Court in Gross v. Irving Trust Co., 289

U. S. 342, 345.
576281-44----16

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

court is paramount and exclusive. Gross v. Irving Trust
Co., 289 U. S. 342. Thus the supervention of bankruptcy
deprives a state court, in which a receivership was pending, of power to fix the compensation of the receivers and
their counsel who were appointed by the state court and
who rendered service in the state proceedings. Gross v.
Irving Trust Co., supra; Emil v. Hanley, 318 U. S. 515,
519.
Sherman v. Buckley, 119 F. 2d 280, which arose in
ordinary bankruptcy, is relied upon for the contrary conclusion. In that case an action brought by the bankrupt
had been pending in the state court for seven years before
the adjudication in bankruptcy. The trustee obtained
the consent of the bankruptcy court to allow the action
to be prosecuted in the state court on behalf of the estate
and to substitute attorneys other than those retained by
the bankrupt. It was held that the state court could require as a condition upon the substitution the liquidation
of the New York charging lien of the displaced attorneys.
Whether that case was correctly decided on its facts we
need not stop to inquire. It is sufficient to say that it
does not state the correct rule of law under Ch. X of the
Act.
It is said, however, that § 77B rather than Ch. X measures the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court since the
main suit was instituted in the state court prior to the
effective date of Ch. X, September 22, 1938. See § 7.
But the short answer is that the petition was approved
after that date and the provisions of Ch. X were thus
brought into play.' It is suggested that since § 23 of
5

Even if the petition had been approved prior to the effective date
of Ch. X its provisions would have applied in their entirety to the
proceedings provided such approval was within three months prior to
that date. § 276 (c) (1).

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

the Act 6 was applicable to reorganizations under § 77B
but inapplicable' to those under Ch. X (§ 102), there was
a greater limitation on the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court over plenary suits at the time the main suit was instituted than there was after Ch. X became effective
From that it is argued that since Congress left the enforcement of such claims to the state courts, it permitted them
to control all incidents of the litigation including the fixing of attorneys' liens. Sec. 23 deals with questions of the
jurisdiction of federal district courts, e. g., whether in suits
by trustees in bankruptcy against adverse claimants the
jurisdiction of the district courts rests on consent of the
parties regardless of diversity of citizenship. Schumacher
v. Beeler, 293 U. S. 367. The fact that the suits against
the former officers and directors of the debtor could have
been brought in the state courts alone does not advance
the solution of the present problem. A bankruptcy
trustee who by choice or by necessity resorts to a state
court for the prosecution of a claim is of course bound by
the adjudication made in the state proceeding. Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450; Fischer v. Pauline Oil
6

See. 23 presently provides: "a. The United States district courts
shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity, as
distinguished from proceedings under this Act, between receivers and
trustees as such and adverse claimants, concerning the property ac-*
quired or claimed by the receivers or trustees, in the same manner and
to the same extent as though such proceedings had not been instituted
and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and such adverse claimants. b. Suits by the receiver and the trustee shall be
brought or prosecuted only in the courts where the bankrupt might
have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings under this Act had not

been instituted, unless by consent of the defendant, except as provided
in sections 60, 67, and 70 of this Act."
7 See Weinstein, The Bankruptcy Law of 1938 (1938), pp. 63-64;
2 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.), pp. 435-436.
8See In re Standard Gas & Elecric Co., 119 F. 2d 658.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

& Gas Co., 309 U. S. 294, 303. The state court has full
control over the litigation. But even as an incident thereto, it may not take action which involves the performance
of functions which Congress has entrusted to the bankruptcy court. See Eau ClaireNationalBank v. Jackman,
204 U. S. 522, 537-538.
The suggestion has been made that New York could
open its courts to the prosecution of such suits as the trustees instituted on condition that New York control the
legal fees incident to the litigation; and that so long as
New York did not discriminate against those asserting
rights under the federal act such condition would be valid.
Cf. Douglas v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377.
It does not appear, however, that New York has followed
that course. The fact that New York has adopted measures designed to protect attorneys practicing in its courts
does not demonstrate that New York has made its control
over the fees a condition to the use of its tribunals. There
is no such indication in the opinion of the New York Court
of Appeals. Thus we cannot say that New York has provided conditions for entry into its courts which collide
with a Congressional enactment. We can only assume
therefore that the case is no different in principle from the
one where a state grants to creditors attachments in aid of
the collection of their claims. There can be no doubt that
such liens could be nullified by supervening bankruptcy
whether the creditor be lawyer or merchant.
But if it is assumed that New York might have refused
to entertain such suits as were brought against the old
management (cf. Mondou v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.,
223 U. S. 1, 56-59), it does not follow that it could take
jurisdiction of them but fail to apply any federal law in
which those claims might be rooted. Garrett v. MooreMcCormack Co., 317 U. S. 239. Where Congress has prescribed the rule to govern the compensation of those em-

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

Opinion of the Court.

ployed by the bankruptcy court, those claims are no less
dependent on the federal rule because they are asserted as
an incident to another suit. If the state court could disregard the federal rule in that situation, then any of the
duties of administration which Congress has imposed on
the bankruptcy court could be absorbed by the state tribunal. Eau Claire National Bank v. Jackman, supra.
Congress has fixed the fees which various representatives
or officers of the bankruptcy court may receive for their
services. §§ 40, 48. Among these are the bankruptcy
trustees. § 48 (c). As in the present case those trustees
may at times choose to act as their own attorneys. But
it would be novel doctrine indeed to hold that state courts
could increase any maximum allowance which Congress
might authorize bankruptcy trustees to receive from the
estate merely because the trustees rendered some of their
services in state tribunals. Yet if Congress can protect
bankruptcy estates by itself prescribing maximum fees for
those representing or rendering service to the estate, it is
not apparent why it may not reach the same result by delegating that authority to the bankruptcy court. Whatever
doubts may have once existed as to the functions of a reorganization court, it is clear under this recent bankruptcy
legislation that the approval of all fees as part of the plan
has been entrusted to the bankruptcy court exclusively.
The case is therefore controlled by the principle of Hines
v. Lowrey, 305 U. S. 85. In that case we held that where
an Act of Congress limited to ten dollars the fees for services in connection with veterans' War Risk Insurance
claims, the New York court could not award a greater
amount to an attorney representing a guardian of an insane veteran even where the guardian was appointed by
the New York court. We reversed a judgment of the New
York court granting the attorney $1,500 for his services.
The purpose of Congress to place the control of petitioners'

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxFuRT,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

fees in the bankruptcy court is no less clear than its purpose to limit the amount of fees in the Hines case. In
each the federal rule is the supreme law of the land.
We only hold that the bankruptcy court has exclusive
authority under Ch. X to fix the amount of allowances for
fees. Whether the amount so fixed could be secured by a
lien created by local law raises a question which we do
not reach.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS

concurs in the result.

MR. JusT Ci FRNKFuRTm , concurring:

1. Since 1789, rights derived from federal law could be
enforced in state courts unless Congress confined their enforcement to the federal courts. This has been so precisely for the same reason that rights created by the British Parliament or by the Legislature of Vermont could be
enforced in the New York courts. Neither Congress nor
the British Parliament nor the Vermont Legislature has
power to confer jurisdiction upon the New York courts.
But the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the only
authority that has power to create them and to confer
jurisdiction upon them-namely the law-making power
of the State of New York-enables them to enforce rights
no matter what the legislative source of the right may be.
See, for instance, United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513,
520.
2. In short, subject to only one limitation, each State
of the Union may establish its own judicature, distribute
judicial power among the courts of its choice, define the
conditions for the exercise of their jurisdiction and the
modes of their proceeding, to the same extent as Congress
is empowered to establish a system of inferior federal
courts within the limits of federal judicial power, and the
States are as free from control by Congress in establishing

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

Fax1FmTER,

J., concurring.

state systems for litigation as is Congress free from state
control in establishing a federal system for litigation. The
only limitation upon the freedom of a State to define the
jurisdiction of its own courts is that implied by Article
IV, § 2 of the Constitution, whereby "The Citizens of
each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States." The Constitution
does not require New York to give jurisdiction to its courts
against its will. But "If the State does provide a court to
which its own citizens may resort in a certain class of cases,
it may be that citizens of other States of the Union also
would have a right to resort to it in cases of the same
class." Anglo-American ProvisionCo. v. Davis Provision
Co., No. 1, 191 U. S. 373, 374. The matter was well put
by Judge Cuthbert Pound in connection with litigation
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act in the state
courts: "the State courts must make no hostile discrimination against litigants who come within the act in question; . . . they must treat litigants under the Federal
act as other litigants are treated; . . . they are to act in
conformity with their general principles of practice and
procedure and are not to deny jurisdiction merely because
the right of action arises under the act of Congress."
31urnanv. Wabash Ry. Co., 246 N. Y. 244, 247, 158 N. E.
508, 509.
3. The upshot of the matter is that "rights, whether
legal or equitable, acquired under the laws of the United
States, may be prosecuted in the United States courts, or
in the State courts, competent to decide rights of the like
character and class; subject, however, to this qualification,
that where a right arises under a law of the United States,
Congress may, if it see fit, give to the Federal courts exclusive jurisdiction." Claflin v. Houseman,93 U.S. 130, 136137. Whether a state court is "competent to decide rights
of the like character and class," whether the particular
litigation is to be tried by jury and, if so, how the jury

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FaxNE:uRvm,

3., concurring.

321 U.S.

is to be composed, whether it is to be a jury of twelve or
less, whether decision is to be by unanimity or majority,
whether security is to be furnished and of what naturein sum, whether a state court can take jurisdiction and
what the incidents of the litigation should be-all these
are matters wholly within the control of the State creating the court and without the power of Congress. See,
for instance, Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Bombolis,
241 U. S. 211. As it was put by Mr. Justice Story in Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 330-331, "Congress
cannot vest any portion of the judicial power of the
United States, except in courts ordained and established
by itself." Congress may avail itself of state courts for
the enforcement of federal rights, but it must take the
state courts as it finds them, subject to all the conditions
for litigation in the state courts that the State has decreed
for every other litigant who seeks access to its courts.
4. Congress from the beginning has allowed federally
created rights to be enforced in state courts not only by
the general implications of our legal system but also by
explicit authorization. The nature of the obligation of
the state court under such legislation has been most litigated in connection with the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, and after thorough canvass the matter was thus
summarized by Mr. Justice Holmes in Douglas v. New
York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377, 387-388, "As to the
grant of jurisdiction in the Employers' Liability Act, that
statute does not purport to require State Courts to entertain suits arising under it, but only to empower them to
do so, so far as the authority of the United States is concerned. It may very well be that if the Supreme Court of
New York were given no discretion, being otherwise competent, it would be subject to a duty. But there is nothing in the Act of Congress that purports to force a duty
upon such Courts as against an otherwise valid excuse."

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

FRAEFmmm,

J., concurring.

5. The simple fact is that from 1789 to this day no act of
Congress has attempted to force upon state courts the duty
of enforcing any right created by federal law on terms
other than those on which like litigation involving rights
other than federal rights is required to be conducted in a
state court. It certainly has not done so by the Bankruptcy Act nor can any implication to that effect be derived from the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution.
For the Supremacy Clause does not give greater supremacy to the Bankruptcy Act over the free scope of the
States to determine what shall be litigated in their courts
and under what conditions, than it gives with reference to
rights directly secured by the Constitution, such as those
guaranteed by the Full Faith and Credit Clause, see Anglo-American Provision Co. v. Davis ProvisionCo., No. 1,
supra, or with reference to the power exercised by Congress under the Commerce Clause, see Minneapolis & St.
Louis R. Co. v. Bombolis, supra.
6. The exercise of a right which Congress has not sought
to exercise since 1789 and evidently has not exercised because of the constitutional relation of federal rights to their
enforcement in state courts should not be read into Chapter X. c. 575, 52 Stat. 883, 11 U. S. C. § 501 et seq. We
should hesitate long before we find that Congress has assumed the power to render unconstitutional state legislation by which access to a state court would be allowed to
a litigant on no different terms than those which the State
has prescribed for its own litigants to whom access to its
courts is given in like cases. And certainly such a wholly
novel doctrine of constitutional law should not be resorted to gratuitously when the case before us can be disposed of on the conclusive ground that the litigation conducted in the New York courts was conducted under an arrangement consonant with New York law, namely that the
attorneys' fees were to be fixed not by the New York courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRAN

mTu, J., concurring.

321 U. S.

but by the Bankrutcy Court. See Matterof Heinsheimer,
214 N. Y. 361, 108 N. E. 636. Recognition that such is
New York law and that therefore the remission of fee-fix-

ing in this case to the Bankruptcy Court is not in conflict
with that law appears from the opinion below: "as a matter of fact the retainer of these attorneys was subject to the
condition that the amount of any fees would be fixed by
the United States District Court." 290 N. Y. 468, 475.
The disposition of this case requires neither the assumption made in the Court's opinion relating to New York
law, nor the application given to Chapter X, both of which
must be inescapable before we even reach the constitutional issue needlessly projected.
7. Hines v. Lowrey, 305 U. S. 85, does not touch this
problem. That case involved § 500 of the World War
Veterans' Act which limited to $10 the fee that may be
allowed for services in pressing a claim before the United
States Veterans' Bureau and made it a crime to charge
more. A New York court granted a fee of $1,500 for such
services because the estate of the veteran was being administered by a committee appointed by the state court
which had appointed an attorney to press the claim before
the Veterans' Bureau. Of course this Court held that a
state court cannot sanction that which Congress has outlawed as a crime. The New York court in effect denied the
authority of federal law to fix fees for litigation before a
federal tribunal-a very different thing from denying to
the State of New York the authority to fix fees for litigation in its own courts. The limitations in the Hines case
fixed by Congress did not run counter to any requirement
of New York law governing the conduct of suits in its
courts. That case was not concerned with such a situation, and therefore could not possibly hold that, if New
York had a policy for litigation in its courts contrary to
that expressed by Congressional enactment, a federal right
could be pursued in disregard of the conditions for entry

BROWN v. GERDES.
178

FRANXmF

, J., concurring.

into New York courts applicable to all other litigants.
Congress has never said that it can subvert the declared
policy of a State as to the manner in which, or the conditions under which, litigation in state courts should be conducted. The federal law in any field within which Congress is empowered to legislate is the supreme law of the
land in the sense that it may supplant state legislation in
that field, but not in the sense that it may supplant the
existing rules of litigation in state courts. Congress has
full power to provide its own courts for litigating federal
rights. The state courts belong to the States. They are
not subject to the control of Congress though of course
state law may in words or by implication make the federal
rule for conducting litigation the rule that should govern
suits to enforce federal rights in the state courts. Surely
it cannot be that should New York decide to regulate the
public profession of the law by putting the determination
of all attorneys' fees in charge of its courts, Congress could
provide that actions thereafter brought in New York courts
in the enforcement of federal rights shall not be subject
to New York's fee system. I repeat, Hines v. Lowrey,
supra, gives no support whatever to a claim which was not
involved in that case, which it did not consider, and which
runs counter to the whole course of federal judiciary legislation and federal adjudication.
We ought not to go out of our way to embarrass consideration of such delicate questions in the working of our
federal system whenever in the future they may call for
decision by this Court.
M ..

JUSTICE JACKSON joins

in this opinion.

