96

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

321 U. S.

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN STEAMSHIP CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 200. Argued January 5, 1944.-Decided January 31, 1944.
1. A finding of seaworthiness by a district court sitting in admiralty
is usually a finding of fact, which will not be reviewed here if the
two courts below concurred in it. But the finding of seaworthiness
in this case is reviewable here, since both courts below, holding
themselves bound by a previous decision of this Court, reached that
conclusion as a matter of law. P. 98.
2. A vessel and its owner are liable to indemnify a seaman for injury
caused by unseaworthiness of the vessel or its appurtenant appliances
and equipment. P. 99.
3. A seaman who was injured on shipboard when the staging on which
he was working fell as a result of a break in defective rope with
which it was rigged, is entitled under the maritime law to indemnity
from the shipowner for breach of the warranty of seaworthiness.
P. 103.
The owner is not relieved of liability in such case by the fact that
the use of the defective rope in rigging the staging was due to the
negligence of the ship's officers or of fellow servants of the seaman,
for the owner's duty to furnish the seaman with safe appliances and
a safe place to work is nondelegable; nor is the owner relieved by
the fact that there was sound rope aboard, which could have been
used in rigging the staging, for the owner's duty is to furnish the seaman with safe appliances for use in his work when and where it is to
be done.
4. Plamals v. The PinarDel Rio, 277 U. S. 151, to the extent that it
conflicts herewith, is disapproved. P. 105.
135 F. 2d 602, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 725, to review the affirmance of
a decree, 45 F. Supp. 839, denying recovery in an action
in admiralty for indemnity for injuries.
Mr. Abraham E. Freedman, with whom Mr. Paul M.
Goldstein was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph W. Henderson,with whom Mr. George M.
Brodhead,Jr.was on the brief, for respondent.

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

MR. C:IEF JUsTICE STOmE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a seaman on respondent's vessel, the
"Wichita Falls," was injured, while at sea, by a fall from
a staging, which gave way when a piece of defective rope
supporting it parted. The rope was supplied by the mate
when there was ample sound rope available for use in
rigging the staging. The question is whether the defect
in the staging was a breach of the warranty of seaworthiness rendering the owner liable to indemnify the seaman
for his injury.
Petitioner brought this suit in personam in admiralty
in the District Court for Eastern Pennsylvania, to recover indemnity and maintenance and cure. On the trial
the evidence showed that the mate ordered petitioner to
paint the bridge and to stand on the staging for that
purpose. The staging consisted of a board supported at
both ends by rope which, if sound, was sufficient in
strength to sustain the stage and its load. The boatswain,
by direction of the mate, had cut the rope for the staging
from a coil, which had been stored for two years in the
Lyle gun box. The rope, intended for use with the Lyle
life-saving apparatus, had never been used. There was
testimony that it had been examined and tested by the
boatswain and the mate, and that it was generally sound
in appearance. After the accident, examination of the
rope at the point where it broke showed that it was so
rotten as to be inadequate to support the strain imposed
upon it.
The trial judge concluded from the evidence that there
was sound rope on board available for rigging the staging.
He found that there was no fault in the manner in which
the stage had been rigged, but that the rope selected by
the mate was defective and that petitioner's injury was
attributable to the negligence of the boatswain and the

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

mate in failing to observe the defect.1 He held that the
proceeding was brought too late to recover for the negligence under the Jones Act, and that the "Wichita Falls"
was not unseaworthy by reason of the defective rope used
in rigging the staging, citing Plamals v. The Pinar Del
Rio, 277 U. S. 151, 155. He accordingly denied indemnity
to petitioner, but gave judgment in his favor for maintenance and cure.
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed,
129 F. 2d 857, 135 F. 2d 602, by a divided court, resting its
decision on the statement quoted from the opinion in The
PinarDel Rio, supra, 155, that "The record does not support the suggestion that the 'Pinar Del Rio' was unseaworthy. The mate selected a bad rope when good ones
were available." We granted certiorari, 320 U. S. 725,
upon a petition which urged that the statement quoted
from The Pinar Del Rio, supra, does not rule this case,
and that the decision below is inconsistent with the decisions in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, and in SoconyVacuum Co. v. Smith, 305 U. S. 424.
The sole issue presented by the petition for certiorari is
that of respondent's liability to indemnify petitioner for
the injury suffered by reason of the defective staging. No
question is raised with respect to petitioner's right to recover under the Jones Act or his right to the award of
maintenance and cure or its adequacy.
A finding of seaworthiness is usually a finding of fact.
Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar Co., 248 U. S. 139, 145;
Steel v. State Line S. S. Co., L. R. 3 A. C. 72, 81-82, 90-91.
Ordinarily we do not, in admiralty, more than in other
1The dissenting judge in the Circuit Court of Appeals thought that
this finding of negligence on the part of the ship's officers was erroneous. See 135 F. 2d 602, 605. There was no attack on this finding
here, and we have not examined the correctness of the trial judge's
conclusion, for, as we will point out, the question whether there was
such negligence does not control decision of the issues of this case.

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

cases, review the concurrent findings of fact of two courts
below. The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655, 658; The Wildcroft, 201 U. S. 378, 387; Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar
Co., supra;Piedmont Coal Co. v. SeaboardFisheries Co.,
254 U. S. 1, 13; Just v. Chambers, 312 U. S. 383, 385.
Here, however, both courts below, holding themselves
bound by The PinarDel Rio, supra, have, on the facts
found, held as a matter of law that the staging was
seaworthy despite its defect. That conclusion of law is
reviewable here.
Until the enactment of the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46
U. S. C. § 688, the maritime law afforded no remedy by
way of indemnity beyond maintenance and cure, for the
injury to a seaman caused by the mere negligence of a
ship's officer or member of the crew. But the admiralty
rule that the vessel and owner are liable to indemnify a
seaman for injury caused by unseaworthiness of the vessel
or its appurtenant appliances and equipment, has been
the settled law since this Court's ruling to that effect in
The Osceola, supra, 175. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S.
Co., 247 U. S. 372, 380-381; CarlislePacking Co. v. Sandanger,259 U. S. 255,258-260; PacificS. S. Co. v. Peterson,
278 U. S. 130, 134; Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, 287
U. S. 367, 370-371; Warner v. Goltra,293 U. S. 155, 158;
The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110, 120 et seq.; SoconyVacuum Co. v. Smith, supra,428-429; O'Donnellv. Great
Lakes Co., 318 U.S. 36, 40. The latter rule seems to have
been derived from the seaman's privilege to abandon a
ship improperly fitted out, and was generally applied, before its statement in The Osceola, supra, by numerous
decisions of the lower federal courts during the last century. See The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 121, footnote 2.
This was a recognized departure from the rule of the
English law, which allowed no recovery other than maintenance and cure for injuries caused by unseaworthiness,
Couch v. Steel, 3 El. & Bl. 402, until the enactment of the

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Merchant Shipping Act of 1876, 39 & 40 Vict., Chap. 80,
§ 5, reenacted by the Merchant Shipping Act of 1894, 57
& 58 Vict., Chap. 60, § 458. By that statute there is annexed to every contract of service between the owner of a
ship or the master and any seaman thereof, an obligation
that all reasonable means be used to insure the seaworthiness of the ship before and during the voyage. See Hedley
v. Pinkney & Sons S. S. Co., [1894] A. C. 222.
In a number of cases in the federal courts, decided before The Osceola, supra,the right of the seaman to recover
for injuries caused by unseaworthiness seems to have been
rested on the negligent failure, usually by the seaman's
officers or fellow seamen, to supply seaworthy appliances.
The Noddleburn, 28 F. 855, aff'd, 30 F. 142; The Neptuno,
30 F. 925; The Frank and Willie, 45 F. 494; The Julia
Fowler, 49 F. 277; William Johnson & Co. v. Johansen,
86 F. 886; and see The Columbia, 124 F. 745; The Lyndhurst, 149 F. 900. But later cases in this and other federal
courts have followed the ruling of The Osceola, supra,that
the exercise of due diligence does not relieve the owner of
his obligation to the seaman to furnish adequate appliances.2 Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, supra, 259260; The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 120 et seq.; Beadle v.
Spencer, 298 U. S. 124, 128-129; Socony-Vacuum Co. v.
Smith, supra, 428-429, 432; The H. A. Scandrett, 87 F.
2d 708, 710-711; cf. The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S.
199, 210.
If the owner is liable for furnishing an unseaworthy appliance, even when he is not negligent, a fortiorihis obligation is unaffected by the fact that the negligence of the
officers of the vessel contributed to its unseaworthiness.
2

By statute the owner's similar obligation with respect to the carriage of goods is merely to exercise "due diligence to make the...
vessel in all respects seaworthy." Harter Act, § 3, 27 Stat. 445, 46
U. S. C. § 192. See also Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, § 4 (1), 49
Stat. 1210, 46 U S. C. § 1304 (1).

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

96

It is true that before the Jones Act the owner was, in other
respects, not responsible for injuries to a seaman caused
by the negligence of officers or members of the crew. But
this is not sufficient to insulate the owner from liability
for their negligent failure to furnish seaworthy appliances,
see Judge Addison Brown, in The Frank and Willie, supra,
495-497; CarlislePacking Co. v. Sandanger,supra, 259260, more than their negligence relieves him from his
liability for maintenance and cure. The Osceola, supra,
175; Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson,supra,134; Calmar S. S.
Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525, 527.
It required the Harter Act to relax the exacting obligation to cargo of the owner's warranty of seaworthiness of
ship and tackle.' That relaxation has not been extended,
either by statute or by decision, to the like obligation of the
owner to the seaman. The defense of the fellow servant rule to suits in admiralty for negligence, a defense
precluded by the Jones Act, has never avowedly been
deemed applicable to the owner's stricter obligation to the
seaman of the warranty of seaworthiness.
The Osceola, supra, in answer to certified questions,
laid down as separately numbered and independent propositions the rule of the owner's unqualified obligation to
furnish seaworthy appliances, and the rule that the owner
is not liable to a seaman for the negligence of his fellow
servants. It nowhere intimated that the owner is relieved from liability for providing an unseaworthy appliance, merely because the unseaworthiness was attributable
to the negligence of fellow servants of the injured seaman
rather than to the negligence of the owner. Indeed, to
support the rule of absolute liability, the Court, see The
Osceola, supra, 173-175, relied on cases in which the vessel or its owner had been held liable for injuries resulting
from unseaworthiness, although application of the fellow
1 See note 2, supra.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

servant rule would have barred recovery. Of one, The
Frank and Willie, supra,the Court, after pointing out that
the seaman was injured by reason of the negligent failure
of the mate to provide a safe place in which to work, said,
"the question was really one of unseaworthiness and not
of negligence."
The Court cited, discussed and relied upon The Noddleburn, supra, Olson v. Flavel, 34 F. 477, The Frank and
Willie, supra, and The Julia Fowler, supra. In each the
seaman was injured as a result of his use of unseaworthy
appliances rendered so by the negligence of a fellow servant. In The Julia Fowler, supra, the injury was caused
by a fall from a boatswain's chair which the Court found,
as in this case, was rigged with defective rope by reason
of the fault of the mate. The inapplicability of the fellow servant rule to this type of case was recognized explicitly in The Noddleburn, supra, 858, and in The Frank
and Willie, supra, 495-497. And such was our holding
in CarlislePacking Co. v. Sandanger, supra, where it was
said, at p. 259, "without regard to negligence the vessel
was unseaworthy." See also the discussion in The H. A.
Scandrett, supra,710-711.
In thus refusing to limit, by application of the fellow
servant rule, the liability of the vessel and owner for unseaworthiness, this Court was but applying the familiar
and then well established rule of non-maritime torts, that
the employer's duty to furnish the employee with safe appliances and a safe place to work, is nondelegable and not
qualified by the fellow servant rule. Hough v. Railway
Co., 100 U. S. 213, 216-220; Northern Pacific R. Co. v.
Herbert,116 U. S. 642, 647-648; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 386-388; Union Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Daniels,152 U. S. 684, 688-689. It would be an anomaly if the fellow servant rule, discredited by the Jones
Act as a defense in suits for negligence, were to be resuscitated and extended to suits founded on the warranty of

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

seaworthiness, so as to lower the standard of the owner's
duty to furnish safe appliances below that of the land
employer.
The staging from which petitioner fell was an appliance
appurtenant to the ship. It was unseaworthy in the sense
that it was inadequate for the purpose for which it was
ordinarily used, because of the defective rope with which it
was rigged. Its inadequacy rendered it unseaworthy,
whether the mate's failure to observe the defect was negligent or unavoidable. Had it been adequate, petitioner
would not have been injured and his injury was the proximate and immediate consequence of the unseaworthiness.
See The Osceola, supra, 174-175, and cases cited. Any
negligence of the mate in selecting the rope and ordering its
use as a part of the staging, or of the boatswain in using
it for that purpose, could not relieve respondent of the
duty to furnish a seaworthy staging. Whether petitioner
knew of the defective condition of the rope does not appear, but in any case the seaman, in the performance of
his duties, is not deemed to assume the risk of unseaworthy appliances. The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 123-124;
Beadle v. Spencer, supra, 129-130; Socony-Vacuum Co. v.
Smith, supra.
Nor does the fact that there was sound rope on board,
which might have been used to rig a safe staging, afford an
excuse to the owner for the failure to provide a safe one.
We have often had occasion to emphasize the conditions
of the seaman's employment, see Socony-Vacuum Co. v.
Smith, supra, 430-431 and cases cited, which have been
deemed to make him a ward of the admiralty and to place
large responsibility for his safety on the owner. He is subject to the rigorous discipline of the sea, and all the conditions of his service constrain him to accept, without critical examination and without protest, working conditions
and appliances as commanded by his superior officers.
These conditions, which have generated the exacting re576281-44-----11

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

quirement that the vessel or the owner must provide the
seaman with seaworthy appliances with which to do his
work, likewise require that safe appliances be furnished
when and where the work is to be done. For, as was said
in The Osceola, supra, 175, the owner's obligation is "to
supply and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship." (Italics supplied.) It is not enough
that the "Wichita Falls" had on board sound rope which
could have been used to make the staging seaworthy, if
in fact the staging was unsafe because sound rope was not
used. The Julia Fowler, supra; The Navarino, 7 F. 2d
743, 746; cf. The Portland,213 F. 699.
Respondent's argument that the defective rope was a
consumable supply of the vessel, not falling within the
requirement that the owner must furnish seaworthy equipment appurtenant to the vessel, is inappropriate here because, as we have said, it was the stage which was unseaworthy, by reason of the use of the defective rope in
its construction. The stage was used in the repair of the
ship, and was as intimately associated with it and with
the seaman's employment as are the gangways or other
appliances or the passageways used by the seaman in
doing his work.
Moreover it would not be enough to say that this case
concerns a consumable supply, for in CarlislePacking Co.
v. Sandanger, supra, the owner was held liable to a seaman for unseaworthiness, where a consumable supply of
the ship was stored in such fashion as to render it dangerous
to the seaman who used it. There gasoline had been negligently placed in a can marked "coal oil" and the seaman
was burned by an explosion which resulted when he attempted to build a fire with the gasoline, which he had
taken out of the can thinking it to be coal oil.
The statement from The Pinar Del Rio, supra, relied
upon by the two courts below, could be taken to support

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

their decision, only on the assumption either that the presence of sound rope on the "Wichita Falls" afforded an excuse for the failure to provide a safe staging, or that antecedent negligence of the mate in directing the use of the
defective rope relieved the owner from liability for furnishing the appliance thereby rendered unseaworthy. But
as we have seen, neither assumption is tenable in the light
of our decisions before and since The PinarDel Rio, supra.
So far as this statement supports these assumptions, it is
disapproved. We cannot follow it, and also follow The
Osceola, supra, the cases which it approved and Carlisle
Packing Co. v. Sandanger, supra. We prefer to follow
the latter as the more consonant with principle and
authority.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:
I think the judgment is wrong. The case does not present a situation calling for liberalizing the maritime law
in favor of seamen by abolishing the defense of a fellow
seaman's negligence. Congress did that in 1920 (41 Stat.
1007). But it required actions in such situations to be
brought within two years, which it subsequently extended
to three years. The sole question is whether recovery
should be permitted beyond the time when Congress said
action must be instituted. I should say nothing further
on this question save that the method of reaching the
decision seems to me contrary to right exercise of the
judicial function.
The petitioner has undoubtedly obtained care and cure
to which, as a seaman, he was entitled irrespective of fault
on the part of owner or master. He failed timely to avail
himself of his right to sue under § 33 of the Jones Act. In
an action under that statute the defense of the negligence
of a fellow servant would not have been open to the respondent. In an effort to obtain damages, he brought

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

this action under the general maritime law. His recovery
vel non under the unusual circumstances can be of little
importance to others than himself and the respondent.
But, in order to give him the demanded relief, the court
resorts to nullification of an earlier decision, Plamals v.
PinarDel Rio, 277 U. S. 151, indistinguishable in fact and
law, which has stood unquestioned for sixteen years, and
applied principles settled years before in The Osceola, 189
U. S. 158.
The history of Plamas v. PinarDel Rio is important.
The libellant, a seaman on a British ship lying in United
States waters, was ordered by a mate to repair a stack.
A sling was used, for which the mate selected a piece of
rope. The rope broke and the seaman was injured. He
filed a libel in rem against the vessel. The owner gave
bond and released the ship.
The libel, after reciting the facts, alleged that the injuries were due "to the fault or neglect of the said steamship
or those in charge of her in that the said rope was old, worn
and not suitable for use." The libel failed to refer to § 33
of the Jones Act, but, at the trial, the libellant's proctor
stated that he relied upon it. The claimant in its answer
asserted that the vessel was of British registry and, as the
only redress open to the libellant was under the British
Workmen's Compensation Law, the Admiralty Court
should decline jurisdiction. The claimant amended its
answer to deny liability on the ground that the ship was
provided with proper tackle but, through the negligence of
an officer, bad tackle was selected.
The District Court held that the British law,-the law
of the flag,-afforded no action in rem nor any action for
indemnity since there was an ample supply of good rope on
board and the mate chose an insufficient rope for use.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
libellant's pleadings were inadequate but, as no point had

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

ROBERTS, J.,

dissenting.

been made of their infirmity, went on to consider "whether,
on the facts proven and under any applicable law, libellant
has a case." 1 It said the libellant must make out a case of
maritime tort; that, under the law of England, there could
be no recovery and that if the applicable law were the maritime law of the United States the libellant could not recover for the improvident or negligent act of the mate,
adding: "If the vessel had been unsupplied with good and
proper rope, a different question would arise."
That court further held that, although, under the Jones
Act, libellant could have sued at law or filed a libel in personam, the statute gave no right to a libel in rem. The decree dismissing the libel was, therefore, affirmed.
Petitioner sought review in this court and, in his petition
and briefs, asserted the right to maintain a libel in rem under the Jones Act but, in the alternative, insisted that,
under the general maritime law, independent of the Jones
Act, the libellant was entitled to recover for the failure
to supply, and keep in order, proper appliances, properly
rigged, and for the unseaworthiness of the vessel in this
respect.
It will be noted how closely that case parallels the instant one. In both, though for differing reasons, the libellant was precluded from relying on the Jones Act which
would have avoided all question of a fellow servant's negligence. In both, the libellant then sought to resort to his
claim for indemnity for a maritime tort. In the PinarDel
Rio case it was held that he had made no case on the latter
theory, and in the present case it is held that he has made
out such a case. This court, in the earlier case, held two
things: first, that a libel in rem cannot be maintained under the Jones Act, and, second, that, if the case were treated
as the Circuit Court of Appeals had treated it,-as one for
116 F. 2d

984, 985.

OCTOBER TERMT,

1943.

ROBm S, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

recovery of indemnity for a maritime tort,-the record
would not support the claim. The court said:
"The record does not support the suggestion that the
'PinarDel Rio' was unseaworthy. The mate selected a
bad rope when good ones were available.
"We must treat the proceeding as one to enforce the liability prescribed by Sec. 33. It was so treated by petitioner's proctor at the original trial; and the application for
certiorari here spoke of it as based upon that section. The
evidence would not support a recovery upon any other
ground." (Italics added.)
These holdings were made in answer to extended argument in the briefs, the petitioner on the one hand contending that the vessel should be treated as an American vessel
and as being unseaworthy, respondent contending that,
whether British or American, she was not unseaworthy
under the law of either nation and that the libellant's injuries were due to the negligence of a fellow servant.
What the court said, therefore, was clearly responsive to
the contentions of the parties. The present decision does
not merely disapprove language used in the earlier case.
It overrules the case and alters long-established law without adequate reason.
There has been some suggestion that the holding in the
PinarDel Rio case to which I have referred crept into the
opinion by inadvertence. But I cannot assume any such
thing in view of the proverbial care which all the justices
exercise to prevent expression of opinion on questions not
necessary to the decision of a case. The decision must be
taken at face value as the expression of the views of all the
members of the court.
Cases now cited in the opinion of the court were cited
and considered by the court in the Pinar Del Rio case.2
2

The Julia Fowler, 49 F. 277; The Noddleburn, 28 F. 855; The

Osceola, 189 U. S. 158; The Navarino, 7 F. 2d 743. The Portland,
213 F. 699, not cited, was, however, decided prior to this court's
decision in the Pinar Del Rio case.

MLAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

ROBFaTS, J., dissenting.

The most important of them, and one on which the Circuit Court of Appeals relied in that case, was The Osceola,
supra3 The instant decision not only overrules the Pinar
Del Rio case but asserts that it is inconsistent with the
holdings in The Osceola. If this be true it must be because the court has a different conception of the word
consequence than that I have.
In The Osceola this court, after the fullest consideration, recapitulated the admiralty law respecting the rights
of injured seamen, interalia,as follows (p. 175):
"That the vessel and her owner are, both by English
and American law, liable to an indemnity for injuries
received by seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship, or a failure to supply and keep in order
the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship .
(Italics supplied.)
"That all the members of the crew, except perhaps the
master, are, as between themselves, fellow servants, and
hence seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained
through the negligence of another member of the crew
beyond the expense of their maintenance and cure."
Unseaworthiness in the abstract does not afford a
cause of action. An injury must be "in consequence" of
the unseaworthiness,-must be connected with and result from it. And "unseaworthiness" covers a variety of
situations variously affecting the work and risks of seamen. Unseaworthiness of the kind on which the court
bases its opinion is very different from that due to a faulty
mechanism which is an inherent risk to life and limb.
If the doctrine now announced is right, a vessel supplied
with the newest charts would be unseaworthy if the
owner failed to remove old charts from the pilot house;
it would make the owner an insurer that, no matter how
.

3 The Osceola has long been recognized as a leading case. It has
been cited for the propositions it laid down at least eighteen times
by this court, and nearly two hundred times by lower federal courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

many adequate facilities were at hand, no insufficient one
was anywhere on the ship. Here the so-called unseaworthiness did not consist in want of adequate ropes for
the seaman's need. His injury was due entirely to the negligent selection by the mate of a piece of bad rope when
ample good rope was at hand. The District Court found
that the mate was negligent, the Circuit Court of Appeals
accepted the finding, and the disposition of the case in
this court is on the assumption of the correctness of this
finding.
The question, therefore, is whether the ship is liable for
the mate's negligent choice of a defective piece of rope
when there was plenty of good rope aboard. Under the
principles announced in The Osceola, recovery in admiralty for a maritime tort is barred by the mate's negligence. It was to avoid the interposition of such a defense
of a fellow servant's act that the Jones Act made the Federal Employers' Liability Act applicable to the claims
of injured seamen.
The court professes to have to choose between the doctrine it reads into the decision in The Osceola case and
the ruling in Pinar Del Rio. But further it asserts that
PinarDel Rio is in conflict with Carlisle Packing Co. v.
Sandanger,259 U. S. 255, an opinion written by the same
justice who wrote the opinion in the PinarDel Rio case.
The cited authority, as I read it, clearly ruled that in order
for a seaman to recover for an injury where the ship is
unseaworthy the unseaworthiness must be the direct
cause of his injury.
That was an action brought in a state court by an
injured seaman against the owner of a motor boat. When
the boat left on her voyage a can intended for the use of
the crew, supposed to contain coal oil, and so labeled, had
been filled with gasoline and the seaman, without notice
of this fact, attempted to use the contents and was

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

burned. The supply of life preservers was insufficient and
his injuries were aggravated by his having to search for
one before he could jump overboard and extinguish the
flames consuming his clothing. A verdict and judgment
for the seaman was sustained. This court found that
erroneous instructions had been given the jury but held
the error harmless since the record showed that, without
regard to the owner's negligence, the vessel was unseaworthy when she left the dock, and the court held (p.
259): ". .. if thus unseaworthy and one of the crew
received damage as the direct result thereof, he was entitled to recover compensatory damages." (Italics supplied.) The court cited, amongst other cases, The
Osceola.
I am at a loss to understand the citation of this case as
authority for the present decision. The reasoning of the
court's opinion seems to be this: In the CarlislePacking
Co. case recovery was permitted because the injury was
the direct result of unseaworthiness. That decision,
therefore, requires that the owner be held liable in the
instant case although the seaman's injury was not the
direct result of unseaworthiness, but of the mate's negligence. It must be upon the basis of such reasoning that
the Pinar Del Rio case is overruled and the judgment
below reversed.
There is some suggestion that the PinarDel Rio case
was overruled by Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. v. Smith, 305
U. S. 424. It need only be said that the PinarDel Rio
case was not cited in the briefs of counsel in the Socony
case nor referred to in the opinion and that in fact the
Socony decision involved and purported to deal only with
the general doctrine of assumption of risk and not with
the defense of fellow servant's negligence. That the defenses are not the same is made plain by the fact that it
has always been held that a fellow servant's negligence
is no defense in actions brought under the Federal Em-

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U.S.

ployers' Liability Act,- whereas assumption of other risks
was a defense ' until Congress recently explicitly acted to
abolish it as such."
Indeed, if in the Socony case, the suit had involved a
fellow servant's negligence instead of the seaman's assumption of the risk involved in the use of an unsafe appliance supplied by the vessel, the case would have been so
plainly ruled by earlier decisions 7 that it would have
merited no consideration, much less an opinion, by this
court.
The statement in the opinion that the defense of a fellow servant's negligence had never been deemed applicable to the owner's obligation to the seaman under the
warranty of seaworthiness ignores the point that if the
seaman is to recover the unseaworthiness must, under the
authorities cited, be the direct cause of the injury. If it
is not, but a fellow servant's negligence is the cause, the
seaman could not recover, 8 until the law was altered by the
Jones Act.
The evil resulting from overruling earlier considered decisions must be evident. In the present case, the court
below naturally felt bound to follow and apply the law as
clearly announced by this court. If litigants and lower
federal courts are not to do so, the law becomes not a chart
to govern conduct but a game of chance; instead of settling rights and liabilities it unsettles them. Counsel and
-'IllinoisCentral R. Co. v. Skaggs, 240 U. S. 66.
5 SeaboardAir Line v. Horton,233 U. S. 492.
6 Act of Aug. 11, 1939, 53 Stat. 1404.
7Jamison v. Encarnacion,281 U. S. 635; Uravic v. Jarka Co., 282
U. S. 234.
8
Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; The Rosalie Mahony, 218 F. 695; In re Tonawanda Iron & Steel Co., 234 F. 198;
Payne v. Jacksonville ForwardingCo., 280 F. 150; The Daisy, 282 F.
261; Wood v. Davis,290 F. 1; Hammond Lumber Co. v. Sandin, 17 F.
2d 760; Benedict, Admiralty, 6 Ed., Vol. 1, p. 256.

MAHNICH v. SOUTHERN S. S. CO.
96

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

parties will bring and prosecute actions in the teeth of the
decisions that such actions are not maintainable on the
not improbable chance that the asserted rule will be thrown
overboard. Defendants will not know whether to litigate
or to settle for they will have no assurance that a declared
rule will be followed. But the more deplorable consequence will inevitably be that the administration of justice
will fall into disrepute. Respect for tribunals must fall
when the bar and the public come to understand that nothing that has been said in prior adjudication has force in a
current controversy.
Of course the law may grow to meet changing conditions. I do not advocate slavish adherence to authority
where new conditions require new rules of conduct. But
this is not such a case. The tendency to disregard precedents in the decision of cases like the present has become
so strong in this court of late as, in my view, to shake
confidence in the consistency of decision and leave the
courts below on an uncharted sea of doubt and difficulty
without any confidence that what was said yesterday
will hold good tomorrow, unless indeed a modern instance
grows into a custom of members of this court to make public announcement of a change of views and to indicate
that they will change their votes on the same question
when another case comes before the court.' This might,
to some extent, obviate the predicament in which the
lower courts, the bar, and the public find themselves.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion.

9 See Minersvile School District v. Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586; Jones
v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584, 623; Barnette v. West Virginia State Board
of Education, 47 F. Supp. 251, 252-3; West Virginia State Board of
Educationv. Barnette,319 U. S. 624.

