NORTHWESTERN CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 119
Statement of the Case.

NORTHWESTERN ELECTRIC CO.

ET AL. V.

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 195. Argued January 4, 5, 1944.-Decided January 31, 1944.
Pursuant to authority granted by the Federal Power Act to prescribe
a uniform system of accounts for utilities subject to the Act, the
Federal Power Commission, having found an item in the accounts
of a utility company to be a "write-up"---balancing a liability on
an issue of common stock in respect of which the company received
no value-ordered the company to dispose of it by applying toward
its elimination all net income above preferred-stock dividend requirements. Held that the order was authorized by the Act and
was constitutional. P. 123.
1. The method adopted by the Commission for the disposition of
the write-up, supported by expert evidence and not plainly arbitrary, may not be set aside on review, even though it may not accord
with the best accounting practice. P. 124.
2. That the accounting method prescribed interferes with the
function of management is not a valid constitutional objection.
P. 124.
3. That the order prevents the company from redressing the
deficiency of paid-in capital by entering among its assets subsequent
appreciation in value does not constitute a taking of the property
of the company or its stockholders. P. 124.
4. That a successor company might have been allowed to carry
as an asset the actual cost to it of the physical property of the company is irrelevant. P. 124.
5. The order does not violate the reserved powers of the States
under the Tenth Amendment. P. 125.
6. No conflict exists between the authority here exercised by the
Federal Power Commission and that exercised by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. P. 125.
134 F. 2d 740, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 722, to review the affirmance of an
order of the Federal Power Commission. See also 125 F.
2d 882; 36 P. U. R. (N. S.) 202; 43 P. U. R. (N. S.) 148.
576281-44----12

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Mr. A. J. G. Priest,with whom Messrs. John A. Laing,
Henry S. Gray, and Sidman I. Barberwere on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Charles V. Shannon, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy,Assistant Attorney GeneralShea, and Messrs. Chester T. Lane, PaulA. Sweeney, and Reuben Goldbergwere
on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Spencer Gordon,on behalf of the American Institute
of Accountants, as amicus curiae, filed a brief discussing
principles of accounting.
MR. JusTICE ROBEmTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners assert that an order of the Federal Power
Commission made pursuant to its authority to prescribe a
uniform system of accounts for electric utilities is invalid
because in excess of the Commission's statutory power and
in violation of the Fifth and Tenth Amendments to the
Constitution.
Northwestern Electric Company is an operating utility
all of whose common shares are owned by American Power
& Light Company. Shortly after organization Northwestern issued 100,000 shares of $100 par common stock
to promoters. Later the transaction was entered on its
books as "Land and Water Rights" with a corresponding
credit to "Common Capital Stock." Northwestern received no cash or property for the stock so issued. The
company prospered and its common stock became valuable. In 1925 American purchased all the common stock
for $5,095,946.48. In 1936 Northwestern was permitted
by the regulatory authorities of the States of Oregon and
Washington, in which it operates, to reduce the par value
of its common stock from $100 to $35, thus reducing the
outstanding common to $3,500,000. This reduction was

NORTHWESTERN CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 121
119

Opinion of the Court.

made in order that the stock might then represent the fair
value of the company's assets. Entries on the asset side
were written down $6,500,000 to offset the reduction in
common stock liability.
Acting under § 301 (a) of the Federal Power Act of
1935' the Commission prescribed a uniform system of accounts for utilities and ordered reclassification of their
electric plant accounts with necessary adjusting entries
to reflect such new classification as of January 1, 1937.
Northwestern submitted a classification and the Commission, after investigation, issued a report thereon and requested Northwestern to submit a plan for disposition of
the item of $3,500,000 upon its books and recommended
that the amount should be transferred to Account 107Electric Plant Adjustments-pending submission of such a
plan. Northwestern failed to comply with these requests
and an order to show cause was issued upon which a hearing was held. The Commission found that the cost of
the physical property was all represented by obligations
issued by the company and that the common stock did
not represent money or property received. The Commission further found that in the interest of consumers, investors, and the public, the $3,500,000 write-up to be
entered in Account 107 should be disposed of by applying
net income above preferred stock dividend requirements
to its elimination, and added that this disposition would
insure the company's receiving value to balance common
stock liability and that dividends ought not to be paid on
the common stock until it had an equivalent paid-in value.
An order was entered requiring Northwestern to comply
with the finding.
The Commission granted a rehearing only as respects
the required disposition of the asset item of $3,500,000, but
refused a rehearing on all other matters involved in the
149 Stat. 847, 854, 16 U. S. C. § 825.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

case. Northwestern obtained a review in the Circuit
Court of Appeals,2 which sustained the order as against
Northwestern's contentions that the Commission was
without power to make an order for the keeping of its accounts, because of existing State regulation; that the Commission's action was not sustained by the proofs before it,
was an abuse of discretion, and constituted a denial of due
process of law, since the system of accounts prescribed was
to show the company's plant at the amount it cost rather
than at its present fair value. Inasmuch as the rehearing
was pending before the Commission on the disposition to
be made of the write-up, the Circuit Court of Appeals declined to pass upon that matter.'
In connection with the rehearing, the Commission requested the company to suggest any disposition of the
$3,500,000 item it thought appropriate. The company refused to make any suggestion, its position being that the
entry should remain in Account No. 107. The result of
permitting it thus to remain in the plant and property
accounts of the company would be a continuance of a
showing on its books of actual asset value to balance the
outstanding common stock liability. The Commission reaffirmed its order and Northwestern again sought review
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. American, which had
been permitted to intervene, joined in the application for
court review. The Circuit Court of Appeals refused to
disturb the Commission's order.4
The Commission's power to prescribe a uniform system
of accounting and to require Northwestern to keep accounts accordingly is not open to doubt. Its action was
2As authorized by § 313 (b), 49 Stat. 860, 16 U. S. C. § 8251.
8 Northwestern Electric Co. v. Federal Power Commission, 125 F.

2d 882.
134 F. 2d 740.

NORTHWESTERN CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 123
119

Opinion of the Court.

fully justified by the Act,' the relevant provisions of which
are within the legislative power.' The only inquiries now
open are whether the order as to the disposition of the
$3,500,000 item appearing in Account 107 goes beyond the
Commission's statutory mandate or constitutional limitations. We hold that it does neither.
The case presents only a question of proper accounting.
In the light of the admitted fact that there has been a
write-up of three and one-half million dollars on the asset
side of the accounts to balance a stock liability created by
the company in the same amount, which represents no
value received for the stock issued, any accounting which
limits plant items to their actual value when and as acquired demands that this write-up be eliminated from the
accounts. Those in which the company previously carried
the item were "Land and Water Rights," "Miscellaneous
Non-Operating Intangible Capital," and "Organization."
A mere write-up belongs in none of these accounts and
cannot properly appear in any other account on the asset
side of the ledger. If it should so remain, it would have
to be in a new account reflecting present value in excess of
actual cost which would, in effect, be a plant appreciation
account and the Commission's form of accounting does not
permit the carrying of any such item in the asset account
since its system is a cost system of accounting.
The question is whether the write-up must be written
off the books in some manner. Northwestern says it
5Sec. 201 (a), 49 Stat. 847, 16 U. S. C. § 824 imposes regulations
upon interstate utilities; § 205, 49 Stat. 851, 16 U. S. C. § 824d gives
the Commission authority to regulate rates, and § 301 (a) requires the
keeping of accounts by utilities and authorizes the Commission to make
rules and regulations necessary or appropriate for the purposes of the
administration of the Act.
6
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 423; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 134; American
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. United States, 299 U. S. 232.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

should not be, but it offered no evidence before the Commission to show that in accounts based upon cost any
such item should appear in plant account or elsewhere.
There was expert evidence by Commission's witnesses that
it must be eliminated. Nevertheless the petitioners insist
the Commission's order as to disposition is arbitrary.
Although, as suggested in a brief filed by the American
Institute of Accountants, the Commission's prescribed
method of eliminating the write-up may not accord with
the best accounting practice, it is sustained by expert evidence. It is not for us to determine what is the better practice so long as the Commission has not plainly adopted an
obviously arbitrary plan. 7
The objections based upon the Constitution are without
merit and need but brief notice. That the accounting
method prescribed interferes with the function of management to some extent is beside the point.8 That the Commission's action prevents the company from redressing the
deficiency of paid-in capital by entering among its assets
appreciation of value subsequent to the issue of the common stock takes nothing from the company or the stockholders. Although if American had purchased the assets
of Northwestern it might have been allowed to place among
its assets on its own books the actual cost to it of the
physical property of Northwestern, the fact is irrelevant
upon the question whether Northwestern may carry a fictitious asset account representing estimated value of
capital stock issued neither for money nor for property at
exchange value.
Nothing in the statute or the order prevents Northwestern keeping other accounts if it so desires which
7 See Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, 141;
American
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. United States, supra, 236.
8
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, 143.

NORTHWESTERN CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 125
119

Opinion of the Court.

will give information with regard to estimated present
appreciated value of its assets.
We find nothing in the statute which would have prevented a readjustment of the common stock account or
the earned surplus account if the company had been willing
and had proposed such readjustment to bring the statutory
accounts into line with the Commission's prescribed
system.

The Commission's order does not violate the reserved
rights of the states under the Tenth Amendment. We are
not here concerned with what the regulatory authorities
of Oregon or Washington may or may not demand or permit. Whatever that action may be, it is subordinate to
Congress' appropriate exercise of the commerce power.
The Commission's order does not purport presently to
affect or constrain action by the states within their
fields.
We are not called upon to make any decision as to the
ability of the company legally to declare and pay
dividends.
The petitioners attack the regulations as in conflict with
the powers and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which also has regulatory power over
Northwestern; but an examination of the statute and of
the orders and proceedings of the Securities and Exchange
Commission satisfies us that no conflict exists.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

