NORTON v. WARNER CO.
560

Counsel for Parties.

Du Pont, supra, p. 493. Appropriate findings of fact
might well bring such payments within the meaning of
"interest," as for example a finding that their declaration was the basis on which new contractual engagements
were made. But such is not this case.
Affirmed.

NORTON, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER FOR THE
THIRD COMPENSATION DISTRICT, v. WARNER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 362. Argued February 28, 29, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. On review under § 21 (b) of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers'
Compensation Act, the court may not set aside a compensation award
deemed contrary to the weight of the evidence, but may set an award
aside only for error of law. P. 56S.
2. A barge, though without motive power, is a vessel within the meaning
of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, since
it is a means of transportation by water. P. 571.
3. Upon the facts of this case, held that a bargeman-though the barge
which he tended was without motive power and though he was the
sole employee aboard-was a "member of a crew" within the meaning
of the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and
excluded from the coverage of that Act by §§ 2 (3) and 3 (a) (1)
thereof. P. 571.
137 F. 2d 57, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 729, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 45 F. Supp. 835, which dismissed a suit to set
aside an award of compensation under the Longshoremen's
& Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Mr. Melvin Richter were on the brief,
for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Mr. Samuel B. Fortenbaugh,Jr., with whom Mr. Everett H. Brown, Jr., was on the brief, for respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Abraham E. Freedman,
with whom Messrs. William L. Standard and E. Burke
Finnerty were on the brief, for the National Marine Engineers Beneficial Association et al., as amici curiae,urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether Nicholas Rusin,
a bargeman employed by respondent, is entitled to compensation under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (44 Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C. § 901)
for injuries received when a capstan bar, which he was
using to shift the barge at a pier, pulled out and struck
him upon the chest and caused him to fall. The answer
turns on whether Rusin was a "master or member of a
crew of any vessel." If he was, he is not entitled to the
compensation because such persons are expressly excluded
from the coverage of the Act by § 2 (3) and § 3 (a) (1).
The Deputy Commissioner found that Rusin was a harbor worker, not a "master or member of a crew," and
granted him a compensation award.' The District Court
upheld the Deputy Commissioner in a suit which responddent-employer brought to set aside the award. 45 F.
Supp. 835. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 137
F. 2d 57. The case is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari which we granted because of the asserted failure
of the court below to give proper effect to our decision in
South Chicago Coal & Dock Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S.
251.
1 Cf. the finding of the Deputy Commissisoner in Diomede v. Lowe,
14 F. Supp. 380; 87 F. 2d 296.

NORTON v. WARNER CO.
565

Opinion of the Court.

The facts, as found by the Deputy Commissioner and
amplified by additional evidence adduced before the District Court, are not in dispute. Rusin was employed as a
boatman on a barge which at the time of the injury was
afloat on the navigable waters of the United States. The
barge had no motive power of its own and was moved either
by towing or, for shorter distances, by the winding up of a
cable by means of a capstan operated by hand. The barge,
which was documented as a vessel of the United States,
never went to sea but was confined in its operation to
waters within a radius of thirty miles of Philadelphia.
Rusin was employed under a union contract with respondent which stated that all bargemen assigned to specific
barges in active operation were to be paid a monthly salary
of $80 and were to be provided with quarters. It also
stated that that compensation was "for all work performed
by Bargemen in the operation of his own vessel" and that
the rates provided were "based upon all services and time
required to safeguard and operate the barge fleet, including
necessary pumping, watching, or other emergency duties
on Sundays and holidays." Rusin was continuously
aboard. He bought his own meals and lived, ate, and
slept on the barge. When he worked on any other boat,
he received wages at an hourly rate, in addition to the
monthly salary. Rusin had little experience as a seaman
except that which he obtained as a bargeman. His duties
consisted of taking general care of the barge. They included taking care of the lines at docks, tightening or
slackening them as necessary; repairing leaks; pumping
out the barge; taking lines from tugs; responding to
whistles from the tugs; putting out navigational lights and
signals; taking orders from the tugboat when being towed;
moving the barge at piers by the capstan. He could not
set the course or control or change it at any time. He was
subject to orders of respondent's marine superintendent
576281-4----0

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

except when in tow, at which time he was subject to the
control of the tugboat captain. But he had no duties
in connection with the handling of cargo and no shore duties. At the time of the injury he was the sole person
aboard or employed upon the barge.
Sec. 19 (a) of the Act gives the Deputy Commissioner
"full power and authority to hear and determine all questions in respect of" claims for compensation. And § 21 (b)
gives the federal district courts power to suspend or set
aside, in whole or in part, compensation orders if "not in
accordance with law." In considering those provisions of
the Act in the Bassett case, we held that the District Court
was not warranted in setting aside such an order because
the court would weigh or appraise the evidence differently.
The duty of the District Court, we said, was to give the
award effect, "if there was evidence to support it." 309
U.S.at258. And we stated that the findings of the Deputy
Commissioner were conclusive even though the evidence
permitted conflicting inferences. Id. p. 260. And see
Parkerv. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S. 244,246. This statement of the finality to be accorded findings of the Deputy
Commissioner under the Act was not new. It had been
stated in substantially similar terms in Voehl v. Indemnity
Insurance Co., 288 U. S. 162, 166, and in Del Vecchio v.
Bowers, 296 U. S. 280, 287. The rule fashioned by these
cases followed the design of the Act of encouraging prompt2
and expeditious adjudication of claims arising under it.
2 Sec. 14 (b) makes the first instalment of compensation due on the

fourteenth day after the employer has knowledge of the injury or

death. See. 14 (f) provides that if compensation, payable under an
award, is not paid within ten days after it is due, a penalty of twenty
per cent is added. Sec. 18 provides for the issuance by the Deputy

Commissioner of a supplementary order when an employer is in default
of payment of compensation due under an award for a period of thirty
days. On such an order judgment and execution may be obtained

in the federal district courts, the supplementary order of the Deputy

NORTON v. WARNER CO.
565

569

Opinion of the Court.

By giving a large degree of finality to administrative determinations, contests and delays, which employees could ill
afford and which might deprive the Act of much of its
beneficent effect, were discouraged. Thus it is that the
judicial review conferred by § 21 (b) does not give authority to the courts to set aside awards because they are
deemed to be against the weight of the evidence. More is
required. The error must be one of law, such as the misconstruction of a term of the Act.
by the Deputy CommisWe think the award granted
3
sioner had such an infirmity.
If the award were to stand, there would be brought
within the Act a group of workers whom we do not believe
Congress intended to include. The Senate Report makes
clear that "The purpose of this bill is to provide for comCommissioner being final. Any waiver of the right to compensation
under the Act is made invalid by § 15 (b). Agreements for compensation not made in accordance with the Act are outlawed. §§ 15 (a), 16.
Limitations on the granting of interlocutory injunctions staying payment of compensation while an award is being contested are contained
in § 21 (b). And the United States Attorney is directed to appear on
behalf of the Deputy Commissioner and defend compensation orders.
45 Stat. 490,33 U. S. C. § 921a.
3 In Davis v. Department of Labor, 317 U. S. 249, we were dealing
with the problem of determining whether a so-called harbor worker
could be compensated under a state act or must come under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act. That problem was embarrassed
by the fact that the line between federal and state domain had been
drawn with reference to the rule of the Jensen case. There are no
such complications here. In this case the line is one which Congress
has drawn between two mutually exclusive federal systems. The risk
of employees choosing the wrong remedy has been anticipated by Congress and at least partially avoided. For § 13 (d) provides that where
recovery is denied to any person in a suit brought at law or in admiralty
to recover damages on the ground that his remedy was under the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act the limitation of time for
making application for an award begins to run "only from the date
of termination of such suit."

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

pensation, in the stead of liability, for a class of employees commonly known as 'longshoremen.' These men are
mainly employed in loading, unloading, refitting, and repairing ships." S. Rep. No. 973, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p.
16. We reviewed the history of the Act in the Bassett
case and in the Parkercase, and more recently in Davis v.
Department of Labor, 317 U. S. 249. As we noted in those
cases, the Act was adopted to meet the difficulties engendered by the decision in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205. And see Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Washington v. W. C. Dawson & Co.,
264 U. S. 219. That line of cases carved out a domain in
which, according to a majority of this Court, state law
could not constitutionally afford compensation to maritime employees. It was to fill that gap in the system of
workmen's compensation that the present Act was passed.
S. Rep. No. 973, supra, p. 16. But as we pointed out in
the Bassett case (309 U. S. pp. 256-257) the effort to bring
a master and members of a crew of a vessel under the Act
was successfully opposed by the representatives of maritime employees. See Nogueira v. New York, N. H. & H.
R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 136; Warnerv. Goltra,293 U. S. 155,
159-160. And the maritime unions which appeared as
amici curiae in the present case emphasize the importance of that exception. The liability of an employer under the Act is exclusive. § 5. On the other hand, those
who are not covered by it but who are protected by maritime law are entitled to maintenance and cure, a remedy
not restricted to accidents. As we said in Aguilar v.
Standard Oil Co., 318 U. S.724, 732, "In this respect it is
a broader liability than that imposed by modern workmen's compensation statutes." Moreover, seamen may
sue under the Jones Act (41 Stat. 988, 1007, 46 U. S. C.
§ 688) for injuries in the course of their employment.
And in such actions assumption of risk is no defense. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. v. Smith, 305 U. S. 424. Or suit

NORTON v. WARNER CO.
565

Opinion of the Court.

may be brought in admiralty for injuries caused by unseaworthiness of the vessel or its appurtenant appliances and
equipment. Mahnich v. Southern Steamship Co., 321
U. S. 96, and cases cited. These are basic rights. The
maritime unions appearing in the present case maintain
that those remedies are indeed superior to the relief afforded by the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act.
Whether they are more desirable than a system of compensation is not for us to determine. But where Congress
has provided that those basic rights shall not be withheld
from a class or classes of maritime employees it is our
duty on judicial review to respect the command and not
permit the exemption to be narrowed whether by administrative construction or otherwise.
If a barge without motive power of its own can have a
"crew" within the meaning of the Act and if a "crew"
may consist of one man, we do not see why Rusin does not
meet the requirements. A barge is a vessel within the
meaning of the Act even when it has no motive power of
its own, since it is a means of transportation on water.4
See The General Cass, Fed. Cas. No. 5,307; Seabrook v.
Raft, 40 F. 596; In re EasternDredging Co., 138 F. 942;
Los Angeles v. United Dredging Co., 14 F. 2d 364; The
Robert TV. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17, 30; Ellis v. United
States, 206 U. S. 246, 259. A crew is generally "equivalent to ship's company" as Mr. Justice Story said in
United States v. Winn, Fed. Cas. No. 16,740, 28 Fed. Cas.
733, 737. But we pointed out in the Bassett case that the
word does not have "an absolutely unvarying legal significance." 309 U. S. at p. 258. We know of no reason
why a person in sole charge of a vessel on a voyage is not
as much a "member of the crew" as he would be if there
were two or more aboard. We said in the Bassett case
4"Vessel" is defined in iev. Stat. § 3, 1 U. S. C. § 3, to include
"every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used,
or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

that the term "crew" embraced those "who are naturally
and primarily on board" the vessel "to aid in her navigation." Id., p. 260. But navigation is not limited to "putting over the helm." It also embraces duties essential
for other purposes of the vessel. Certainly members of
the crew are not confined to those who can "hand, reef and
steer." Judge Hough pointed out in The Buena Ventura,
243 F. 797, 799, that "every one is entitled to the privilege of a seaman who, like seamen, at all times contributes to the labors about the operation and welfare of the
ship when she is upon a voyage." And see The Minna,
11 F. 759; Disbrow v. Walsh Bros., 36 F. 607, 608 (bargeman). We think that "crew" must have at least as broad
a meaning under the Act.' For it is plain from the amendment exempting a "master or member of a crew" that
ship's company was not brought under the Act. And we
are told by the Senate Report, as already noted, that the
purpose of the legislation was to provide compensation
for those who "are mainly employed in loading, unloading,
refitting, and repairing ships." S. Rep. No. 973, supra.
Rusin, unlike the employee in the Bassett case,6 did
no work of the latter variety. He performed on the
barge functions of the same quality as those performed
in the maintenance and operation of many vessels. His
were indeed different from the functions of any other
"crew" only as they were made so by the nature of the vessel and its navigational requirements. The contract under
which he was employed stated that the compensation was
"based upon all services and time required to safeguard
and operate the barge fleet." The services rendered con5 "Seaman" as used in a particular context may of course have a
broader meaning than "crew." International Stevedoring Co. v.
Haverty, 272 U. S. 50. And see Carumbo v. Cape Cod S. S. Co.,
123 F. 2d 991.
8
And see Moore Dry Dock Co. v. Pillsbury, 100 F. 2d 245; Henderson v. Jones, 110 F. 2d 952.

FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
565

Counsel for Parties.

formed to that standard and no other. Rusin moreover
had that permanent attachment to the vessel which commonly characterizes a crew. See A. L. Mechling Barge
Line v. Bassett, 119 F. 2d 995.
We conclude that only by a distorted definition of the
word "crew" as used in the Act could Rusin be restricted
to the remedy which it affords and excluded from recovery under the Jones Act or be denied relief in admiralty. See Maryland Casualty Co. v. Lawson, 94 F.
2d 190; Loverich v. Warner Co., 118 F. 2d 690; Cantey
v. McLain Line, 32 F. Supp. 1023, 114 F. 2d 1017, which
we reversed in 312 U. S. 667.
Affirmed.
AIR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs

in the result.

FOLLETT v. TOWN OF McCORMICK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 486. Argued February 11, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
A municipal ordinance imposing a flat license tax on book agents, as
applied to an evangelist or preacher who distributes religious tracts
in his home town and who makes his livelihood from such activity,
held violative of the freedom of worship guaranteed by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. P. 576.
Reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a conviction for violation of a municipal ordinance prescribing an occupational
license tax.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Grover C.
Powell was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. J. Fred Buzhardt and Jeff D. Griffith for
appellee.

