BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
Syllabus.

489

includes wartime taxes is evident from the fact that the
highest corporate tax rate which prevailed from 1936 to
1939 was 19%. We all know that the extraordinary expenditures incurred for the defense of the nation started
with the Revenue Act of 1940. It has been accepted practice to deduct income taxes as well as other taxes from
operating expenses in determining rates for public utilities.
Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388, 399.
But this is war, not business-as-usual. When income taxes
are passed on to consumers, the inflationary effect is
obvious. And it is self-evident that the ability to pass
present wartime income taxes on to others. is a remarkable
privilege indeed.
BOWLES, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. WILLINGHAI

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 464. Argued January 7i 10, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. Under § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 and
§ 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, and in view of § 204 (d) of the Act,
a federal district court in a suit by the Administrator has authority
to enjoin a proceeding in a state court to restrain issuance by the
Administrator of rent orders; and § 265 of the Judicial Code,
forbidding federal courts to enjoin proceedings in state courts, is
inapplicable. P. 510.
(a) Congress may determine whether the federal courts should
have exclusive jurisdiction of controversies which arise under the
Constitution and laws of the United States and which are therefore
within the judicial power of the United States as defined in Art.
III, § 2 of the Constitution, or whether they should exercise that
jurisdiction concurrently with the courts of the States. P. 511.
(b) The authority of Congress to withhold from state courts
all jurisdiction of controversies arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States includes the power to restrict the oc.
casions when that jurisdiction may be invoked. P. 512.
57 6281--;-4,4---36

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

321 U. S.

2. By the rent control provisions of the Emergency Price Control Act
of 1942, authorizing the Price Administrator to fix maximum rents
for housing accommodations in defense-rental areas, Congress did
not delegate its legislative power. Yakus v. United State, ante,
p. 414. P. 514.
The standards prescribed by the Act are adequate for the judicial
review which is afforded. The fact that there is a zone for the
exercise of discretion by the Administrator is no more fatal here
than in other situations where Congress has prescribed the general
standard and has left to an administrative agency the determination
of the precise situations to which the provisions of the Act will be
applied and the weight to be accorded various statutory criteria on
given facts.
3. The requirement that the maximum rent or rents established by
the Administrator be "generally" fair and equitable, § 2 (b), does
not render the Act violative of the Fifth Amendment. P. 516.
(a) That price-fixing is on a class basis, rather than on an individual basis, does not render it invalid. P. 518.
(b) The restraints imposed on the national government in this
regard by the Fifth Amendment are no greater than those imposed
on the States by the Fourteenth. P. 518.
(c) Congress was dealing here with conditions created by activities
resulting from a great war effort; it was under no constitutional
necessity of providing a system of price control which would
assure eaeh landlord a "fair return" on his property. P. 519.
(d) And though the legislation may have reduced the value of
the property being regulated, there was no "taking" of it. P. 517.
4. That landlords are not afforded a hearing before the order or regulation fixing rents becomes effective does not render the Act violative
of the Fifth Amendment. Provision for judicial review after the
order or regulation becomes effective satisfies the requirements of
due process under these circumstances. P. 519.
5. Questions as to the validity of orders or regulations issued pursuant
to the Act may be considered only by the Emergency Court of
Appeals on the review provided by § 204. P. 521.
Reversed.

DmEc APPPAL from an order of the District Court dismissing a suit by the Price Administrator on the ground
of the unconstitutionality of the rent provisions of the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 and regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto.

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Paul A. Freund, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Mr. Thomas I. Emerson were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. CharlesJ.Bloch for appellees.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Messrs. Maxwell C.
Katz, Otto C. Sommerich, and Benjamin Busch, and by
Mr. R. H. Fryberger,urging affirmance.
IIR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellee, Mrs. Willingham of Macon, Georgia, sued
in a Georgia court to restrain the issuance of certain rent
orders under the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942
(56 Stat. 23, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. II) § 901) on the
ground that the orders and the statutory provisions on
which they rested were unconstitutional. The state
court issued, ex parte, a temporary injunction and a show
cause order. Thereupon appellant, Administrator of the
Office of Price Administration, brought this suit in the
federal District Court pursuant to § 205 (a) of the Act
and § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code to restrain Mrs. Willingham from further prosecution of the state proceedings
and from violation of the Act, and to restrain appellee
Hicks, Bibb County sheriff, from executing or attempting
to execute any orders in the state proceedings. The
District Court in reliance on its earlier ruling in Payne v.
Griffin, 51 F. Supp. 588, dismissed the Administrator's
suit on bill and answer, holding that the orders in question and the provisions of the Act on which they rested
were unconstitutional. The case is here on direct appeal.
50 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 349 (a).
See. 2 (b) of the Act provides in part that, "Whenever
in the judgment of the Administrator such action is necessary or proper in order to effectuate the purposes of this
Act, he shall issue a declaration setting forth the neces-

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

sity for, and recommendations with reference to, the
stabilization or reduction of rents for any defense-area
housing accommodations within a particular defenserental area." Pursuant to that authority the Administrator on April 28, 1942, issued a declaration designating
twenty-eight areas in various parts of the country, including Macon, Georgia, as defense-rental areas. 7 Fed.
Reg. 3193. That declaration stated that defense activities had resulted in increased housing rents in those areas 1
and that it was necessary and proper in order to effectuate
the purposes of the Act to stabilize and reduce such rents.
It also contained a recommendation pursuant to § 2 (b)
that the maximum rent for housing accommodations
rented on April 1, 1941, should be the rental for such accommodations on that date;' and that in case of accomIThe declaration recited that the designated areas were the location of the armed forces of the United States or of war production
industries, that the influx of people had caused an acute shortage of
rental housing accommodations, that most of the areas were those in
which builders could secure priority ratings on critical materials for
residential construction, that new construction had not been sufficient to restore normal rental markets, that surveys showed low
vacancy ratios for rental housing accommodations in the areas, that
defense activities had resulted in substantial and widespread increases
in rents affecting most of these accommodations in the areas, and that
official surveys in the areas had shown a marked upward movement
in the general level of residential rents.
2
Sec. 2 (b) provides: "Whenever in the judgment of the Administrator such action is necessary or proper in order to effectuate the
purposes of this Act, he shall issue a declaration setting forth the
necessity for, and recommendations with reference to, the stabilization
or reduction of rents for any defense-area housing accommodations
within a particular defense-rental area. If within sixty days after
the issuance of any such recommendations rents for any such accommodations within such defense-rental area have not in the judgment
of the Administrator been stabilized or reduced by State or local
regulation, or otherwise, in accordance with the recommendations,
the Administrator may by regulation or order establish such maximum
rent or maximum rents for such accommodations as in his judgment

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

507

Opinion of the Court.

modations not rented on April 1, 1941, or constructed
thereafter provisions for the determination, adjustment,
and modification of maximum rents should be made, such
rents to be in principle no greater than the generally prevailing rents in the particular area on April 1, 1941. The
declaration also stated in accordance with the provisions
of § 2 (b) 3 that if within sixty days after April 28, 1942,
such rents within the areas in question had not been
will be generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the purposes of
this Act. So far as practicable, in establishing any maximum rent
for any defense-area housing accommodations, the Administrator shall
ascertain and give due consideration to the rents prevailing for such
accommodations, or comparable accommodations, on or about April 1,
1941 (or if, prior or subsequent to April 1, 1941, defense activities shall
have resulted or threatened to result in increases in rents for housing
accommodations in such area inconsistent with the purposes of this
Act, then on or about a date (not earlier than April 1, 1940), which
in the judgment of the Administrator, does not reflect such increases),
and he shall make adjustments for such relevant factors as he may
determine and deem to be of general applicability in respect of such
accommodations, including increases or decreases in property taxes
and other costs. In designating defense-rental areas, in prescribing
regulations and orders establishing maximum rents for such accommodations, and in selecting persons to administer such regulations
and orders, the Administrator shall, to such extent as he determines
to be practicable, consider any recommendations which may be made
by State and local officials concerned with housing or rental conditions in any defense-rental area."
And § 2 (c) provides: "Any regulation or order under this section
may be established in such form and manner, may contain such
classifications and differentiations, and may provide for such adjustments and reasonable exceptions, as in the judgment of the Administrator are necessary or proper in order to effectuate the purposes
of this Act. Any regulation or order under this section which establishes a maximum price or maximum rent may provide for a maximum
price or maximum rent below the price or prices prevailing for the
commodity or commodities, or below the rent or rents prevailing for
the defense-area housing accommodations, at the time of the issuance
of such regulation or order."
3See the provisions of § 2 (b) in note 2, supra.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

stabilized or reduced by state or local regulation or otherwise in accordance with the Administrator's recommendation, the Administrator might fix the maximum rents.
On June 30, 1942, the Administrator issued Maximum
Rent Regulation No. 26, effective July 1, 1942, establishing the maximum legal rents for housing in these defense
areas, including Macon, Georgia. 7 Fed. Reg. 4905. It
recited that the rentals had not been reduced or stabilized
since the declaration of April 28, 1942, and that defense
activities had resulted in increases in the rentals on or
about April 1, 1941, but not prior to that date. The maximum rentals fixed for housing accommodations rented on
April 1, 1941 were the rents obtained on that date.
§ 1388.1704 (a). As respects housing accommodations
not rented on April 1, 1941, but rented for the first time
between that date and the effective date of the regulation, July 1, 1942-the situation involved in this case-it
was provided that the maximum rent should be the first
rent charged after April 1, 1941. § 1388.1704 (c). But
in that case it was provided that the Rent Director (designated by § 1388.1713) might order a decrease on his own
initiative on the ground, among others, that the rent was
higher than that generally prevailing in the area for
comparable housing accommodations on April 1, 1941.
§ 1388.1704 (c), §1388.1705 (c) (1). By Procedural Regulation No. 3, as amended (8 Fed. Reg. 526, 1798, 3534,
5481, 14811) issued pursuant to § 201 (d) and § 203 (a)
of the Act Iprovision was made that when the Rent Direc'Sec. 201 (d) provides: "The Administrator may, from time to
time, issue such regulations and orders as he may deem necessary or
proper in order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Act."
Sec. 203 (a) provides in part: "Within a period of sixty days after
the issuance of any regulation or order under section 2, or in the case
of a price schedule, within a period of sixty days after the effective
date thereof specified in section 206, any person subject to any provision of such regulation, order, or price schedule may, in accordance

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

tor proposed to take such action he should serve a notice
upon the landlord involved, stating the proposed action
and the grounds therefor. § 1300.207. Within 60 days
of the final action of the Rent Director the landlord might
file an application for review by the regional administrator for the region in which the defense-rental area office
was located and then file a protest with the Administrator
for review of the action of the regional office (§ 1300.209,
§ 1300.210); or he might proceed by protest immediately.
§ 1300.209, § 1300.215. As we develop more fully hereafter, the Act provides in § 203 (a) for the filing of protests
with the Administrator. The machinery for a hearing
on a protest and a determination of the issue by the Administrator (§ 1300.215-§ 1300.240) was designed to provide the basis of judicial review by the Emergency Court
of Appeals as authorized by § 204 (a) of the Act.
In June, 1943, the Rent Director gave written notice to
Mrs. Willingham that he proposed to decrease the maximum rents for three apartments owned by her, and which
had not been rented on April 1, 1941, but were first rented
in the summer of 1941, on the ground that the first rents
for these apartments received after April 1, 1941, were in
excess of those generally prevailing in the area for comparable accommodations on April 1, 1941. Mrs. Willingham filed objections to that proposed action together with
supporting affidavits. The Rent Director thereupon adwith regulations to be prescribed by the Administrator, file a protest
specifically setting forth objections to any such provision and affidavits or other written evidence in support of such objections. At any
time after the expiration of such sixty days any persons subject to
any provision of such regulation, order, or price schedule may file
such a protest based solely on grounds arising after the expiration of
such sixty days. Statements in support of any such regulation, order,
or price schedule may be received and incorporated in the transcript
of the proceedings at such times and in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Administrator."

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

vised her that he would proceed to issue an order reducing
the rents. Before that was done she filed her bill in the
Georgia court. The present suit followed shortly, as we
have said.
I. We are met at the outset with the question whether
the District Court could in any event give the relief which
the Administrator seeks in view of § 265 of the Judicial
Code (36 Stat. 1162, 28 U. S. C. § 379) which provides that
"The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court
of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a
State, except in cases where such injunction may be
authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." We recently had occasion to consider the history of § 265 and the exceptions which have been engrafted
on it. Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S.118.
In that case we listed the few Acts of Congress passed since
its first enactment in 1793 which operate as implied legislative amendments to it. 314 U. S.pp. 132--134. There
should now be added to that list the exception created by
the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942. By § 205 (a)
the Administrator is given authority to seek injunctive
relief in the appropriate court (including the federal district courts) against acts or practices in violation of § 4,
e. g., the receipt of rent in violation of any regulation or
order under § 2. Moreover, by § 204 (d) of the Act one
who seeks to restrain or set aside any order of the Administrator or any provision of the Act is confined to the judicial review granted to the Emergency Court of Appeals,
which was created by § 204 (c) and to this Court.5 As
5

Sec. 204 (d) provides in part: "The Emergency Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court upon review of judgments and orders
of the Emergency Court of Appeals, shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine the validity of any regulation or order issued under
section 2, of any price schedule effective in accordance with the provisions of section 206, and of any provision of any such regulation,
order, or price schedule. Except as provided in this section, no

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

we recently held in Lockerty v. Phillips,319 U. S. 182, 186,
187, Congress confined jurisdiction to grant equitable relief to that narrow channel and withheld such jurisdiction
from every other federal and state court. Congress thus
preempted jurisdiction in favor of the Emergency Court
to the exclusion of state courts.' The rule expressed in
§ 265 which is designed to avoid collisions between state
and federal authorities (Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
supra) thus does not come into play. The powers of the
District Court under § 205 (a) of the Act and § 24 (1) of
the Judicial Code are ample authority for that court to
protect the exclusive federal jurisdiction which Congress
created.
The suggestion is made that Congress could not constitutionally withhold from the courts of the States jurisdiction to entertain suits attacking the Act on constitutional grounds. But we have here a controversy which
arises under the Constitution and laws of the United
States and is therefore within the judicial power of the
United States as defined in Art. III, § 2 of the Constitucourt, Federal, State, or Territorial, shall have jurisdiction or power
to consider the validity of any such regulation, order, or price schedule, or to stay, restrain, enjoin, or set aside, in whole or in part, any
provision of this Act authorizing the issuance of such regulations or
orders, or making effective any such price schedule, or any provision
of any such regulation, order, or price schedule, or to restrain or enjoin the enforcement of any such provision."
It should also be noted that § 204 (c) withholds from the Emergency Court power "to issue any temporary restraining order or interlocutory decree staying or restraining, in whole or in part, the
effectiveness of any regulation or order issued under section 2 or any
price schedule effective in accordance with the provisions of section
206."
6 Itis true that § 205 (c) gives to state and territorial courts concurrent jurisdiction of all proceedings (except criminal proceedings)
under § 205 of the Act. But they embrace only enforcement suits
brought by the Administrator, not suits brought to restrain or enjoin enforcement of the Act or orders or regulations thereunder.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tion. Hence Congress could determine whether the federal courts which it established should have exclusive
jurisdiction of such cases or whether they should exercise
that jurisdiction concurrently with the courts of the
States. Plaquemines Fruit Co. v. Henderson, 170 U. S.
511, 517; The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 428-430. And
see Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; McKay v. Kalyton,
204 U. S.458, 468-469. Under the present Act all jurisdiction has not been withheld from state courts, since they
have concurrent jurisdiction over all civil enforcement
suits brought by the Administrator. § 205 (c). But the
authority of Congress to withhold all jurisdiction from
the state courts obviously includes the power to restrict
the occasions when that jurisdiction may be invoked.
II. The question of the constitutionality of the rent
control provisions of the Act 7 raises issues related to those
considered in Yakus v. United States, ante, p. 414.
When it came to rents Congress pursued the policy it
adopted respecting commodity prices. It established
standards for administrative action and left with the Administrator the decision when the rent controls of the Act
should be invoked. He is empowered to fix maximum
rents for housing accommodations in any defense-rental
area,8 whenever in his judgment that action is necessary
or proper in order to effectuate the purposes of the Act.
A defense-rental area is any area "designated by the Administrator as an area where defense activities have re7 Here as in Yakus v. United States, supra, the Administrator concedes that in an enforcement suit the constitutionality of the Act
as distinguished from the constitutionality of orders or regulations
under the Act is open. As pointed out in the Yakuz case, reliance is
placed on § 204 (d), supra note 5. And see S. Rep. No. 931, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 24-25.
3The terms rent, defense-rental area, defense-area housing accommodations, and housing accommodations are defined in § 302 of the
Act.

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

suited or threaten to result in an increase in the rents for
housing accommodations inconsistent with the purposes"
of the Act. § 302 (d). The controls adopted by Congress were thought necessary "in the interest of the national defense and security" and for the "effective prosecution of the present war." § 1 (a). They have as their
aim the effective protection of our price structures against
the forces of disorganization and the pressures created by
war and its attendant activities. § 1 (a); S. Rep. No.
931, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 1-5. Thus the policy of the
Act is clear. The maximum rents fixed by the Administrator are those which "in his judgment" will be "generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the purposes
of this Act." § 2 (b). But Congress did not leave the Administrator with that general standard; it supplied criteria for its application by stating that so far as practicable the Administrator in establishing any maximum rent
"Sec. 1 (a) provides in part: "It is hereby declared to be in the
interest of the national defense and security and necessary to the
effective prosecution of the present war, and the purposes of this
Act are, to stabilize prices and to prevent speculative, unwarranted,
and abnormal increases in prices and rents; to eliminate and prevent
profiteering, hoarding, manipulation, speculation, and other disruptive practices resulting from abnormal market conditions or scarcities caused by or contributing to the national emergency; to assure
that defense appropriations are not dissipated by excessive prices;
to protect persons with relatively fixed and limited incomes, consumers, wage earners, investors, and persons dependent on life insurance, annuities, and pensions, from undue impairment of their
standard of living; to prevent hardships to persons engaged in business, to schools, universities, and other institutions, and to the Federal, State, and local governments, which would result from abnormal increases in prices; to assist in securing adequate production of
commodities and facilities; to prevent a post emergency collapse of
values; to stabilize agricultural prices in the manner provided in
section 3; and to permit voluntary cooperation between the Government and producers, processors, and others to accomplish the
aforesaid purposes."

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

should ascertain and give consideration to the rents prevailing for the accommodations, or comparable ones, on
April 1, 1941. The Administrator, however, may choose
an earlier or later date if defense activities have caused
increased rents prior or subsequent to April 1, 1941. But
in no event may the Administrator select a date earlier
than April 1, 1940. And in determining a maximum rent
"he shall make adjustments for such relevant factors as
he may determine and deem to be of general applicability
in respect of such accommodations, including increases or
decreases in property taxes and other costs." § 2 (b).
And Congress has provided that the Administrator "may
provide for such adjustments and reasonable exceptions"
as in his judgment are "necessary or proper in order to
effectuate the purposes of this Act." § 2 (c).
The considerations which support the delegation of authority under this Act over commodity prices (Yakus v.
United States) are equally applicable here. The power
to legislate which the Constitution says "shall be vested"
in Congress (Art. I, § 1) has not been granted to the Administrator. Congress in § 1 (a) of the Act has made
clear its policy of waging war on inflation. In § 2 (b) it
has defined the circumstances when its announced policy
is to be declared operative and the method by which it is to
be effectuated. Those steps constitute the performance
of the legislative function in the constitutional sense.
Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126, 144.
There is no grant of unbridled administrative discretion
as appellee argues. Congress has not told the Administrator to fix rents whenever and wherever he might like and at
whatever levels he pleases. Congress has directed that
maximum rents be fixed in those areas where defense activities have resulted or threaten to result in increased rentals
inconsistent with the purpose of the Act. And it has supplied the standard and the base period to guide the Administrator in determining what the maximum rentals should

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

be in a given area. The criteria to guide the Administrator are certainly not more vague than the standards governing the determination by the Secretary of Agriculture in
UnitedStates v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533, 576-577,
of marketing areas and minimum prices for milk. The
question of how far Congress should go in filling in the details of the standards which its administrative agency is to
apply raises large issues of policy. Sunshine Anthracite
Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U.S. 381,398. We recently stated
in connection with this problem of delegation, "The Constitution, viewed as a continuously operative charter of
government, is not to be interpreted as demanding the
impossible or the impracticable." Opp Cotton Mills v.
Administrator, supra, p. 145. In terms of hard-headed
practicalities Congress frequently could not perform its
functions if it were required to make an appraisal of the
myriad of facts applicable to varying situations, area by
area throughout the land, and then to determine in each
case what should be done. Congress does not abdicate its
functions when it describes what job must be done, who
must do it, and what is the scope of his authority. In our
complex economy that indeed is frequently the only way
in which the legislative process can go forward. Whether
a particular grant of authority to an officer or agency is wise
or unwise, raises questions which are none of our concern.
Our inquiry ends with the constitutional issue. Congress
here has specified the basic conclusions of fact upon the
ascertainment of which by the Administrator its statutory
command is to become effective. But that is not all. The
Administrator on the denial of protests must inform the
protestant of the "grounds upon which" the decision is
based and of any "economic data and other facts of which
the Administrator has taken official notice." § 203 (a).
These materials and the grounds for decision which they
furnished are included in the transcript on which judicial
review is based. § 204 (a). We fail to see how more

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

could be required (Taylor v. Brown, 137 F. 2d 654,
658-659) unless we were to say that Congress rather
than the Administrator should determine the exact rentals
which Mrs. Willingham might exact.
As we have pointed out and as more fully developed in
Yakus v. United States, supra, § 203 (a) of the Act provides for the filing of a protest with the Administrator
against any regulation or order under § 2. Moreover, any
person "aggrieved" may secure judicial review of the action
of the Administrator in the Emergency Court of Appeals.
§ 204 (a). And that review is on a transcript which includes "a statement setting forth, so far as practicable,
the economic data and other facts of which the Administrator has taken official notice." § 204 (a). Here, as in
the Yakus case, the standards prescribed by the Act are
adequate for the judicial review which has been accorded.
The fact that there is a zone for the exercise of discretion
by the Administrator is no more fatal here than in other
situations where Congress has prescribed the general
standard and has left to an administrative agency the determination of the precise situations to which the provisions of the Act will be applied and the weight to be accorded various statutory criteria on given facts. Opp
Cotton Mills v. Administrator, supra; Yakus v. United
States, supra.
Thus so far as delegation of authority is concerned, the
rent control provisions of the Act, like the price control
provisions (Yakus v. United States, supra), meet the requirements which this Court has previously held to be adequate for peacetime legislation.
III. It is said, however, that § 2 (b) of the Act is unconstitutional because it requires the Administrator to fix
maximum rents which are "generally fair and equitable."
The argument is that a rental which is "generally fair and
equitable" may be most unfair and inequitable as applied
to a particular landlord and that a statute which does nomt

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

provide for a fair rental to each landlord is unconstitutional. During the first World War the statute for the
control of rents in the District of Columbia provided machinery for securing to a landlord a reasonable rental.
Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, 157. And see Edgar A.
Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242. And under
other price-fixing statutes such as the Natural Gas Act
of 1938 (52 Stat. 821, 15 U. S. C. § 717) Congress has provided for the fixing of rates which are just and reasonable
in their application to particular persons or companies.
Federal Power Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co.,
320 U. S.591. Congress departed from that pattern when
it came to the present Act. It has been pointed out that
any attempt to fix rents, landlord by landlord, as in the
fashion of utility rates, would have been quite impossible.
Wilson v. Brown, 137 F. 2d 348, 352-354. Such considerations of feasibility and practicality are certainly germane
to the constitutional issue. Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251
U. S.264, 299; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,supra,
p. 145. Moreover, there would be no constitutional objection if Congress as a war emergency measure had itself
fixed the maximum rents in these areas. We are not
dealing here with a situation which involves a "taking"
of property. Wilson v. Brown, supra. By § 4 (d) of
the Act it is provided that "nothing in this Act shall be
construed to require any person to sell any commodity or
to offer any accommodations for rent." There is no requirement that the apartments in question be used for
purposes which bring them under the Act. Of course,
price control, the same as other forms of regulation, may
reduce the value of the property regulated. But, as we
have pointed out in the Hope Natural Gas Co. case (320
U. S. p. 601), that does not mean that the regulation is
unconstitutional. Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the
Court, stated in Block v. Hirsh, supra, p. 155: "The fact
that tangible property is also visible tends to give a rigidity

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to our conception of our rights in it that we do not attach
to others less concretely clothed. But the notion that
the former are exempt from the legislative modification
required from time to time in civilized life is contradicted
not only by the doctrine of eminent domain, under which
what is taken is paid for, but by that of the police power in
its proper sense, under which property rights may be cut
down, and to that extent taken, without pay." A member of the class which is regulated may suffer economic
losses not shared by others. His property may lose utility
and depreciate in value as a consequence of regulation.
But that has never been a barrier to the exercise of the
police power. L'Hote v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 587,
598; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91; Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248
U. S.297; PierceOil Corp. v. City of Hope, 248 U. S. 498;
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 157;
Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365; West Coast
Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379. And the restraints
imposed on the national government in this regard by the
Fifth Amendment are no greater than those imposed on
the States by the Fourteenth. Hamilton v. Kentucky
DistilleriesCo., supra; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S.
100.
It is implicit in cases such as Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S.502, which involved the power of New York to fix
the minimum and maximum prices of milk, and Sunshine
Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, supra,which involved the
power of the Bituminous Coal Commission to fix minimum and maximum prices of bituminous coal, that high
cost operators may be more seriously affected by price
control than others. But it has never been thought that
price-fixing, otherwise valid, was improper because it was
on a class rather than an individual basis. Indeed, the
decision in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113, the pioneer case
in this Court, involved a legislative schedule of maximum
prices for a defined class of warehouses and was sustained

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

Opinion of the Court.

on that basis. We need not determine what constitutional limits there are to price-fixing legislation. Congress was dealing here with conditions created by activites
resulting from a great war effort. Yakus v. UnitedStates,
supra. A nation which can demand the lives of its men
and women in the waging of that war is under no constitutional necessity of providing a system of price control on
the domestic front which will assure each landlord a "fair
return" on his property.
IV. It is finally suggested that the Act violates the
Fifth Amendment because it makes no provision for a
hearing to landlords before the order or regulation fixing
rents becomes effective. Obviously, Congress would have
been under no necessity to give notice and provide a hearing before it acted, had it decided to fix rents on a national
basis the same as it did for the District of Columbia. See
55 Stat. 788. We agree with the Emergency Court of
Appeals (Avant v. Bowles, 139 F. 2d 702) that Congress
need not make that requirement when it delegates the
task to an administrative agency. In Bi-Metallic Investment Co. v. State Board, 239 U. S.441, a suit was brought
by a taxpayer and landowner to enjoin a Colorado Board
from putting in effect an order which increased the valuation of all taxable property in Denver 40 per cent. Such
action, it was alleged, violated the Fourteenth Amendment as the plaintiff was given no opportunity to be heard.
Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the Court, stated, p. 445:
"Where a rule of conduct applies to more than a few people it is impracticable that every one should have a direct
voice in its adoption. The Constitution does not require
all public acts to be done in town meeting or an assembly
of the whole. General statutes within the state power
are passed that affect the person or property of individuals, sometimes to the point of ruin, without giving them a
chance to be heard. Their rights are protected in the only
way that they can be in a complex society, by their power,
576281--44-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

immediate or remote, over those who make the rule." We
need not go so far in the present case. Here Congress has
provided for judicial review of the Administrator's action.
To be,sure, that review comes after the order has been
promulgated; and no provision for a stay is made. But
as we have held in Yakus v. United States, supra, that review satisfies the requirements of due process. As stated
by Mr. Justice Brandeis for a unanimous Court in Phillips
v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 596-597: "Where only
property rights are involved, mere postponement of the
judicial enquiry is not a denial of due process, if the opportunity given for the ultimate judicial determination
of the liability is adequate. Springer v. United States,
102 U. S. 586, 593; Scottish Union & National Ins. Co. v.
Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, 631. Delay in the judicial determination of property rights is not uncommon where it
is essential that governmental needs be immediately
satisfied."
Language in the cases that due process requires a hearing before the administrative order becomes effective
(Morganv. United States, 304 U. S.1, 19-20; Opp Cotton
Mills v. Administrator, supra, pp. 152-153) is to be explained on two grounds. In the first place, the statutes
there involved required that procedure.
Secondly, as we have held in Yakus v. United States,
supra, Congress was dealing here with the exigencies of
wartime conditions and the insistent demands of inflation
control. Cf. Porterv. Investors Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461,
471. Congress chose not to fix rents in specified areas or
on a national scale by legislative fiat. It chose a method
designed to meet the needs for rent control as they might
arise and to accord some leeway for adjustment within
the formula which it prescribed. At the same time, the
procedure which Congress adopted was selected with the
view of eliminating the necessity for "lengthy and costly
trials with concomitant dissipation of the time and ener-

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

gies of all concerned in litigation rather than in the common war effort." S. Rep. No. 931, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 7. To require hearings for thousands of landlords before
any rent control order could be made effective might have
defeated the program of price control. Or Congress might
well have thought so. National security might not be
able to afford the luxuries of litigation and the long delays
which preliminary hearings traditionally have entailed.
We fully recognize, as did the Court in Home Bldg. &
Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,290 U. S. 398, 426, that "even the
war power does not remove constitutional limitations safeguarding essential liberties." And see Hamilton v. Kentucky DistilleriesCo., supra,p. 155. But where Congress
has provided for judicial review after the regulations or
orders have been made effective it has done all that due
process under the war emergency requires.
Other objections are raised concerning the regulations
or orders fixing the rents. But these may be considered
only by the Emergency Court of Appeals on the review
provided by § 204. Yakus v. United States, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring:

I concur in the result and substantially in the Court's
opinion, except for qualifications expressed below. In
view of these and my difference from the Court's position in Yakus v. United States, ante, p. 414, a statement
of reasons for concurrence here is appropriate.
I.
With reference to the substantive aspects of the legislation, I would add here only the following. Since the
phases in issue in this case relate to real estate rentals,
it is not amiss to note that these ordinarily are within
the state's power to regulate rather than that of the federal government. But their relation, both to the general

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuLEDGE, J., concurring.

321 U. S.

system of controlling wartime price inflation and to the
special problems of housing created in particular areas
by war activities, gives adequate ground for exercise of
federal power over them.
Likewise, with respect to the delegation of authority
to the administrator to designate "defense rental areas"
and to fix maximum rentals within them, the same considerations, and others, sustain the delegation as do that
to fix prices of commodities generally. The power to
specify defense rental areas, rather than amounting to
an excess of permissible delegation, is actually a limitation upon the administrator's authority, restricting it to
regions where the facts, not merely his judgment, make
control of rents necessary both to keep down inflation
and to carry on the war activities concentrated in them.
Accordingly, I concur fully with the Court's expressed
views concerning the substantive features of the
legislation.
II.
This appeal presents two kinds of jurisdictional and
procedural questions, though they are not unrelated.
The first sort relate to the power of the District Court to
restrain the further prosecution of the state court proceedings and the execution of, or attempts to execute,
orders issued in them. The other issues relate to the
District Court's power to restrain Mrs. Willingham from
violating the Emergency Price Control Act and the orders
issued pursuant to it affecting her interests.
As to the former, I have no doubt that the District
Court had power, for the reasons stated by the Court, to
restrain the prosecution of the suit in the state court and
the execution of orders made by it. By § 204 (d) of the
Act, Congress withheld from all courts, including the state
courts, with an exception in the case of the Emergency
Court of Appeals and this Court on review of its judg-

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
5M

RUTLEDGE, J.,

523

concurring.

ments, "jurisdiction ... to stay, restrain, enjoin, or set
aside, in whole or in part, any provision of this Act authorizing the issuance of such regulations or orders, or
making effective any such price schedule, or any provision
of any such regulation, order, or price schedule, or to
restrain or enjoin the enforcement of any such provision."
The single exception was the power of the Emergency
Court by its final judgment, or of this Court on final
disposition in review thereof, § 204 (a), (b), to set aside
an order or regulation. Congress clearly had the power
thus to confine the equity jurisdiction of the federal
courts and to make its mandate for uninterrupted operation of the rent control system effective by prohibiting the
state courts so to interfere with the statutory plan, at
least until it should be shown invalid by the channel created for this purpose.' Any effort of the state court
therefore to enjoin the issuance of rent orders or suspend
their operation, whether on constitutional or other
grounds, was directly in the teeth of the statute's explicit
provisions and a violation of its terms. By this mandate
the state courts were not required to give their sanction
to enforcement of an unconstitutional act or regulation
or even of one which might turn out to be such. They
were merely commanded to keep hands off and leave decision upon the validity of the statute or the regulations,
for purposes of suspending or setting them aside, to another forum established for that purpose. Congress
clearly had the power and the intent to authorize federal
courts to enforce this command, by injunction if
necessary.
III.
In vesting jurisdiction in the federal district courts to
enjoin violations of the Price Control Act and regulations
'The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411; cf. Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S.

130, Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Co. v. Henderson, 170 U. S. 511.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTLEDGE, J., concurring.

321 U. S.

issued pursuant to it, Congress included not only violations of the statute's prohibition directed to the state
courts against staying enforcement but other violations
as well. The District Court, acting in the exercise of that
jurisdiction, rested its judgment on the decision of a question it was authorized to consider, namely, whether the
Act, rather than merely a regulation issued under it, is invalid. Since the court decided that question erroneously
in disposing of this case, reversal of its judgment would
be required. And perhaps in strictness this is all that it
would be necessary to decide at this time.
But the contention has been made earnestly all through
these proceedings that the regulations, on the basis of
which any injunction obtained by the administrator must
rest, are invalid and beyond his authority under the Act.
And the Court, relying upon the decision in the Yakus
case, has indicated that these contentions may not be considered in a proceeding of this character.
From what already has been said, it is clear the contention misconceives the administrator's rights with respect
to an injunction restraining the further prosecution of the
state suit and execution of the state court's orders. His
right to such an injunction may rest on considerations
entirely different from those governing his right to secure an injunction restraining Mrs. Willingham from
violating the regulation. The former could be founded
wholly upon the power of Congress to require the state
courts to keep hands entirely off, in the discharge of federal functions by federal officials, at any rate during such
time as might be required for decision, with finality, upon
the validity of the statute and regulations issued under
it by an appropriate alternative federal method. The
latter, however, presents the different question whether
Congress can require the federal district courts, organized
under Article III and vested by it with the judicial power,
not merely to keep hands off, but by affirmative exercise

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

of their powers to give permanent sanction to the legislative or administrative command, notwithstanding it is or
may be in conflict with some constitutional mandate.
That Congress can require the court exercising the civil
jurisdiction in equity to refrain from staying statutory
provisions and regulations is clear. Whether the enforcing court acts civilly or criminally, in circumstances like
these, Congress can cut off its power to stay or suspend
the operation of the statute or the regulation pending final
decision that it is invalid. But this leaves the question
whether Congress also can confer the equity jurisdiction
to decree enforcement and at the same time deprive the
court of power to consider the validity of the law or regulation and to govern its decree accordingly.
Different considerations, in part, determine this question from those controlling when enforcement is by criminal sanction. The constitutional limitations specially
applicable to criminal trials fall to one side. Those relating to due process of law in civil proceedings, including
whatever matters affecting discrimination are applicable under the Fifth Amendment, and to the independence of the judicial power under Article III, in relation
to civil proceedings, remain applicable. Since in these
cases the rights involved are rights of property, not of
personal liberty or life as in criminal proceedings, the consequences, though serious, are not of the same moment
under our system, as appears from the fact they are not
secured by the same procedural protections in trial. It
is in this respect perhaps that our basic law, following the
common law, most clearly places the rights to life and to
liberty above those of property.
All this is pertinent to whether Congress, in providing
for civil enforcement of the Act and the regulations, can
do what in my opinion it cannot require by way of criminal enforcement of this statute, namely, by providing
the single opportunity to challenge the validity of the

526

OCTOBER TERMT, 1943.
RTrLxDGE,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

regulation and making this available for the limited time,
constitute the method afforded the exclusive mode for
securing decision of that question and, either by virtue of
the taking advantage of it or by virtue of the failure to do
so within the time allowed, foreclose further opportunity
for considering it.
In my opinion Congress can do this, subject however to
the following limitations or reservations, which I think
should be stated explicitly: (1) The order or regulation
must not be invalid on its face; (2) the previous opportunity must be adequate for the purpose prescribed, in the
constitutional sense; and (3), what is a corollary of the
second limitation or implicit in it, the circumstances and
nature of the substantive problem dealt with by the legislation must be such that they justify both the creation of
the special remedy and the requirement that it be followed
to the exclusion of others normally available.
In this case, in my judgment, these conditions concur to
justify the procedure Congress has specified. Except for
the charge that the regulations, or some of them, are so
vague and indefinite as to be incapable of enforcement,
there is nothing to suggest they are invalid on their face.
And they clearly are not so, either in the respect specified
or otherwise.2 The proceeding by protest and appeal
through the Emergency Court, even for civil consequences
2The maximum rentals established in the regulation are definite and
easily enough ascertainable. Appellee's complaint against the regulation on the score of vagueness is addressed to the indefiniteness of the
standards which the administrator has prescribed as a guide for his
office in making decreases in maximum rentals, more particularly to
§ 5 (c) (1), which authorizes a decrease in the maximum if it is "higher
than the rent generally prevailing in the Defense-Rental Area for comparable housing accommodations on April 1, 1941." But assuming this
complaint is otherwise meritorious, the standards thus provided are no
less definite than those contained in the Act itself and the contention is
therefore disposed of by the determination of the constitutionality of
the Act.

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

RUTLEDGE,

527

J., concurring.

only, approaches the limit of adequacy in the constitutional sense, both by reason of its summary character' and
because of the shortness of the period allowed for following
it.' A reservation perhaps is in order in the latter respect,
when facts are discovered after the period which, if proven,
would invalidate the regulation and which by reasonable
diligence could not have been discovered before the period
ends. Finally, it hardly can be disputed that the substantive problem and the circumstances which created and surrounded it were such as, if ever they could be, to justify a
procedure of this sort."
Accordingly, I agree that, as against the challenges
made here, the special remedy provided by the Act was
adequate and appropriate, in the constitutional sense, for
the determination of appellee's rights with civil effects,
had she followed it. And her failure to follow it produced
no such irrevocable and harmful consequences, for such
purposes, as would ensue if she were charged with violation as a crime. Accordingly, by declining to take the
plain way opened to her, more inconvenient though that
may have been, and taking her misconceived remedy by
another route, she has arrived where she might well have
expected, at the wrong end.
No doubt this was due to a misconception of her rights,
Cf. the writer's dissenting opinion in Yakus v. United States, ante,

p. 460.
4Under the Act a protest against a regulation must be made within
sixty days of its issuance, but if based on grounds arising after the sixty
days, it may be filed "at any time" thereafter.
But under the Administrator's Revised Procedural Regulation No. 3,
§ 1300.216, "a protest against a provision of a maximum rent regulation based solely on grounds arising after the date of issuance of such
maximum rent regulation shall be filed within a period of sixty days after
the protestant has had, or could reasonably have had, notice of the
existence of such grounds."
5 Cf. the writer's dissenting opinion in Yakus v. United States, ante,
D.

460.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuTrLED,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

both as a matter of substance and as one of procedure,
due perhaps to failure to take full account of the reach
of the nation's power in war. Nevertheless, the Court
not improperly has set at rest some of her misconceptions
concerning the effects of the regulations. Thus, it is
held that the statute is not invalid in providing for maximum rents which are "generally fair and equitable." § 2
(b). It does not lessen the effect of this ruling for purposes of deciding the regulation's validity, that Maximum Rent Regulation Number 26, § 5 (c) (1), of which
appellee complained on various constitutional grounds,
including confiscation, provided that the administrator
might order a decrease of the maximum rent for specified
housing accommodations only on the ground that that
rent "is higher than the rent generally prevailing in the
defense rental area for comparable housing accommodations on April 1, 1941." (Italics added.)
Other issues raised by the appellee with respect to the
regulations likewise are disposed of by the rulings upon
the statute's provisions.' In so far as the regulations are
identical with the statute, therefore, and the objections
to them are identical, the disposition of these objections
to the Act disposes also of those made to the regulations.
In so far as the latter raised questions not raised concerning the statute, and since none of these, except as
mentioned above, called attention to any feature making
a regulation void on its face, the appellee has foreclosed
her opportunity to assert them, as to facts existing when
the suit was begun, by her failure to follow the prescribed
special remedy. It is not unreasonable, in a matter of
this importance and urgency, to require one, whose only
valid objection to the law, including the regulations, rests
in proof of facts not apparent to the administrator or the
6E. g. the contention that the regulation, like the Act, improperly
to the administrator and his agents "legislative" power.

delegates

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

court, to make his proof in the manner provided and to
do so promptly, as a condition to securing equitable or
other civil relief.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS:

I should be content if reversal of the District Court's
decision were upon the ground that that court lacked
power to enjoin prosecution of the appellees' state court
suit. The policy expressed in § 265 of the Judicial Code
applies in this instance. Moreover, if the provision of
§ 204 (d) of the Emergency Price Control Act is valid,
the lack of jurisdiction of the state court could, and
should, have been raised in that court and review of its
ruling could have been obtained by established means of
resort to this court. Since, however, the court has determined that the District Court acted within its competency in enjoining further prosecution of the state court
suit, other issues must be faced.
The appellant in his complaint charged that the appellees threatened to disobey the provisions of the Act and
the regulations made pursuant to it. The appellees answered that the Act and the regulations were void because
in excess of the powers of Congress. I do not understand
the Administrator to contend that the court below was
precluded by the terms of the statute from passing upon
the question whether the Act constitutes an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. I am not sure
whether he asserts that the provisions of § 204 (d), which
purport to prohibit any dourt, except the Emergency
Court of Appeals created by the Act, from considering the
validity of any regulation or order made under the Act,
prevent consideration of the Administrator's rent regulations and orders here under attack. If so, I think the
contention is untenable.
The statute of its own force is not applicable in any
area except the District of Columbia unless and until so

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBEMTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

made by a regulation of the Administrator. The statutory provisions respecting rentals amount only to conference of authority on the Administrator to make regulations and do not themselves prescribe or constrain any
conduct on the part of the citizen. In short, one cannot
violate the provisions of the statute unless they are implemented by administrative regulations or orders. To
say then that, while the court in which the Administrator
seeks enforcement of the Act, and regulations made under
it, has jurisdiction to pass upon the constitutionality of the
Act, it may not consider the validity of pertinent regulations, is to say that the court is to consider the Act in vacuo
and wholly apart from its application to the defendant
against whom enforcement is sought. Under the uninterrupted current of authority the argument must be
rejected.
This brings me to a consideration of the appellees'
principal contention, namely, that, as applied to rent control, the Emergency Price Control Act is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power to an administrative
officer. In approaching this question it is hardly necessary to state the controlling principles which have been
reiterated in recent decisions.' Congress may perform
its legislative function by laying down policies and establishing standards while leaving administrative officials free
to make rules within the prescribed limits and to ascertain
facts to which the declared policy is to apply. But any
delegation which goes beyond the application and execution of the law as declared by Congress is invalid.
Congress cannot delegate the power to make a law or
refrain from making it; to determine to whom the law
shall be applicable and to whom not; to determine what
the law shall command and what not. Candid appraisal
1Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495.

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

of the rent control provisions of the Act in question discloses that Congress has delegated the law-making power
in toto to an administrative officer.
As already stated, the Act is not in itself effective with
respect to rents. It creates an Office of Price Administration to be under the direction of a Price Administrator
appointed by the President (50 U. S. C. § 921 (a)). This
official is authorized, "whenever in [his] judgment . . .
such action is necessary or proper in order to effectuate
the purposes" of the Act, to issue a declaration setting forth
the necessity for, and recommendations with reference to,
the stabilization or reduction of rents for accommodations
within a particular defense-rental area. If within sixty
days such rents within such area have not "in the judgment
of the Administrator" been stabilized or reduced in accordance with his recommendations, he may, by regulation
or order, establish such maximum rent or maximum rents
for such accommodations "as in his judgment will be
generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the purposes" of the Act. "So far as practicable" in establishing maximum rents he is to ascertain and duly consider
the rents prevailing for such accommodations, or comparable accommodations, on or about April 1, 1941 (or
if, prior or subsequent to April 1, 1941, defense activities
shall have resulted, or threaten to result, in increases in
rents of housing accommodations in such area inconsistent with the purposes of the Act, then on or about a date
(not earlier than April 1, 1940) which, "in the judgment of the Administrator" does not reflect such increases); and he shall make adjustments "for such relevant factors as he may determine and deem to be of
general applicability in respect of such accommodations,
including increases or decreases in property taxes and
other costs." "In designating defense-rental areas, in
prescribing regulations and orders establishing maximum rents for such accommodations, and in selecting

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U.S.

persons to administer such regulations and orders, the
Administrator shall, to such extent as he determines to be
practicable," consider recommendations made by State
and local officials (50 U. S. C. § 902 (b)). The form and
the manner of establishing a regulation or order, the insertion of classifications and differentiations, the provisions for adjustments and reasonable exceptions lie
wholly "in the judgment of the Administrator" as to their
necessity or propriety in order to effectuate the purposes
of the Act (50 U. S. C. § 902 (c)).
The "judgment of the Administrator" as to what is
necessary and proper to effectuate the purposes of the
Act is the only condition precedent for his issue of an
order, regulation, or prohibition affecting speculative or
manipulative practices or renting or leasing practices in
connection with any defense-area housing accommodations, which practices "in his judgment" are equivalent
to or are likely to result in rent increases inconsistent with
the purposes of the Act (50 U. S. C. § 902 (d)).
At the moment these statutory provisions were adopted
rent control was not effective in any part of the nation.
The Administrator was appointed for the purpose of enacting such control by regulations and orders. As will be
seen, the first step he was authorized to take was to issue
a declaration stating the necessity for reduction of rents
within a particular defense-rental area and recommendations as to the nature of such reductions.
How is the reader of the statute to know what is meant
by the term "defense-rental area"? The statutory
"standard" is this:
"The term 'defense-rental area' means the District of
Columbia and any area designated by the Administrator
as an area where defense activities have resulted or
threaten to result in an increase in the rents for housing
accommodations inconsistent with the purposes of this
Act." (Italics supplied.) (50 U. S. C. § 942 (d).)

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

Save for the District of Columbia, the designation of
an area where the Act is to operate depends wholly upon
the Administrator's judgment that so-called defense activities have resulted or threaten to result in an increase
of rents inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. Note
that the judgment involved is solely that of the Administrator. He need find no facts, he need make no inquiry,
he need not, unless he thinks it practicable, even consult
local authorities. In exercising his judgment the Administrator must be persuaded that "defense activities" have
caused or will cause a rise in rents. The statute nowhere
defines or gives a hint as to what defense activities are.
In time of war it is conceivable that an honest official
might consider any type of work a defense activity. His
judgment, however exorbitant, determines the coverage
of the Act. It is true that he is authorized to make such
studies and investigations as he deems necessary or proper
to assist him in prescribing regulations or orders (50 U. S.
C. § 922 (a)), but his unfettered judgment is conclusive
whether any are necessary or proper.
But is not the Administrator's judgment channeled and
confined by the final limitation that his action must be the
promotion of the "purposes of this Act"? What are they?
So far as material they are: "To prevent speculative, unwarranted, and abnormal increases in . . . rents" (50

U. S. C. § 901 (a)). There are other general phrases in
the section which may be claimed to throw some light on
the considerations the Administrator may entertain but,
so far as rents are concerned, they are so vague as to be
useless; as, for example, the protection of persons with
relatively fixed and limited incomes, consumers, wage
earners, investors and persons dependent on life insurance, annuities, and pensions from undue impairment of
their standard of living, and more of the same. I have
discussed these "standards" in an opinion filed in Yakus
v. United States, ante, p. 448.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

Language could not more aptly fit this grant of power
than that used in Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra,
at p. 551: "Here in effect is a roving commission to inquire
into evils and upon discovery correct them." Equally
apposite is what was said at p. 541: "It [the Act] does not
undertake to prescribe rules of conduct to be applied to
particular states of fact determined by appropriate administrative procedure. Instead of prescribing rules of conduct, it authorizes the making of codes to prescribe them.
For that legislative undertaking, § 3 sets up no standards,
aside from the statement of the general aims of rehabilitation, correction and expansion described in section one.
In view of the scope of that broad declaration, and of
the nature of the few restrictions that are imposed, the
discretion of the President in approving or prescribing
codes, and thus enacting laws for the government of
trade and industry throughout the country, is virtually
unfettered."
Placing the relevant sections of the statute together
we find that the term "defense-rental area" means any
area designated by the Administrator as an area where
"defense activities" have resulted, or threaten to result,
in "speculative, unwarranted, and abnormal increases in
. . . rents." Can anyone assert that Congress has thus
laid down a standard to control the action of the executive? The Administrator, and he alone, is to say what
increase is speculative, what increase is unwarranted, and
what increase is abnormal. What facts is he to consider?
Such as he chooses. What facts did he consider in the
instant case? One cannot know.
But the matter does not stop here. We have now only
arrived at the designation of an area by the Administrator.
As we have seen, his next step is to issue a declaration or
recommendation. How shall he determine whether to do
so or not? As seen by the above summary of the Act's
provisions, the matter rests in the judgment of the Ad-

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

ministrator as to whether such action is necessary or
proper to effectuate the purposes of the Act. We have
just seen what those purposes are. Again, his sole and
untrammeled judgment as to what is needed to prevent
speculative, unwarranted or abnormal increases is the
only criterion of his action. The public records show that
declarations made by him merely state that, in his judgment, the basic fact exists. He makes no findings; he is
not bound to make any specific inquiry; he issues a flat.
No one is to be advised as to the basis of his judgment;
no one need be heard.
Does the statute afford a standard for the Administrator to follow in deciding the quantity of the reduction?
Again his judgment alone is determinative. And, more,
in his judgment alone rests the decision as to what accommodations within the area are to be affected by the
decreed reduction. He may recommend the reduction of
rent for "any accommodations" within the defense-rental
area.
After the issue of his declaration and recommendations
the Administrator must wait sixty days before putting
his recommendations into effect. If, in his sole and unfettered judgment, stabilization has not been accomplished, he may then, by regulation or order, establish such
maximum rent or maximum rents as "in his judgment"
will be "generally fair and equitable and will effectuate
the purposes of this Act." His order may be based upon
nothing but his own opinion. It may be made without
notice, without hearing, without inquiry of any sort, without consultation with local authorities. The rents established may vary from street to street, and from subdivision
to subdivision, all in accordance with the Administrator's
personal judgment. The order may involve classification
and exemption if the Administrator, in his sole discretion,
deems that this course will "effectuate the purposes of this
Act." Which means, of course, if he thinks non-specula576281-44----38

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

tion, non-abnormality, or sufficient warrant justifies the
discriminations involved.
How shall he fix the amount of the maximum rent?
The only standard given him is the exercise of his own
judgment that the rents fixed will be "generally fair and
equitable and will effectuate the purposes of this Act."
"Fair and equitable" might conceivably be a workable
standard if inquiry into the specific facts were prescribed
and if the bearing of those facts were to be given weight
in the ultimate decision, but the addition of the word
"generally," and the failure to prescribe any method for
arriving at what is fair and equitable leaves the Administrator such room for disregard of specific injustices and
particular circumstances that no living person could
demonstrate error in his conclusion. And, again, even the
phrase "generally fair and equitable" is qualified by empowering the Administrator to consider also questions of
speculation, unwarranted action or abnormality of condition. Such a "standard" is pretense. It is a device to
allow the Administrator to do anything he sees fit without
accountability to anyone.
But, it is said, this is an unfair characterization of the
statute because, "so far as practicable," the Administrator
must ascertain and duly consider rents prevailing for
"such accommodations, or comparable accommodations,
on or about April 1, 1941," and that, although he may pick
out some other period which he thinks more representative, he must not select any period earlier than April 1,
1940, and, therefore, he is definitely confined and prohibited in exercising control over rentals. This argument
will not do. The mere fact that he may not go to any
period for comparison earlier than April 1, 1940, although
he may take any later period he thinks appropriate, does
not serve to obliterate the fact that after such wide and
unrestricted choice of a period he can make any regulation
he sees fit.

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

537

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

Without further elaboration it is plain that this Act
creates personal government by a petty tyrant instead of
government by law. Whether there shall be a law prescribing maximum rents anywhere in the United States
depends solely on the Administrator's personal judgment.
When that law shall take effect, how long it shall remain
in force, whether it shall be modified, what territory it
shall cover, whether the different areas shall be subject
to different regulations, what is the nature of the activity
that shall motivate the institution of the law,-all these
matters are buried in the bosom of the Administrator and
nowhere else.
I am far from urging that, in the present war emergency,
rents and prices shall not be controlled and stabilized.
But I do insist that, war or no war, there exists no necessity,
and no constitutional power, for Congress' abdication of its
legislative power and remission to an executive official of
the function of making and repealing laws applicable to
the citizens of the United States. No truer word was ever
said than this court's statement in the Minnesota Mortgage Moratorium Case 2 that emergency does not create
power but may furnish the occasion for its exercise. The
Constitution no more contemplates the elimination of any
of the coordinate branches of the Government during war
than in peace. It will not do to say that no other method
could have been adopted consonant with the legislative
power of Congress. "Defense-rental areas" and "defense
activities" could have been reasonably defined. Rents in
those areas could have been frozen as of a given date, or
reasonably precise standards could have been fixed, and
administrative or other tribunals could have been given
power according to the rules and standards prescribed to
deal with special situations after hearing and findings and
exposition of the reasons for action. I say this only be2

Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 425, 426.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

cause the argument has been made that the emergency
was such that no other form of legislation would have
served the end in view. It is not for this court to tell Congress what sort of legislation it shall adopt, but in this instance, when Congress seems to have abdicated and to have
eliminated the legislative process from our constitutional
form of Government, it must be stated that this cannot be
done unless the people so command or permit by amending
the fundamental law.
The obvious answer to what I have said is that this court
has sustained, and no one would now question, the constitutional validity of Acts of Congress laying down purported
standards as vague as those contained in the Act under
consideration. But the answer is specious. Generally
speaking, statutes invoking the aid of the administrative
arm of the Government for their application and enforcement fall into two classes,-those in which a policy is declared and an administrative body is empowered to ascertain the facts in particular cases so as to determine whether
that policy in a particular case had been violated. Of this
type of legislation the Interstate Commerce Act and the
Federal Trade Commission Act are classical examples. In
the one, carriers are required to charge just and reasonable
rates for their services. In the other, citizens are forbidden
to indulge in unfair methods of competition. If it be asserted that these are but vague standards of conduct, it
must at once be said that, in adopting them, Congress
adopted common law concepts, the one applying to those
pursuing a public calling and the other to business competitors in general, and that the standards announced
carried with them concepts and contours attaching as a result of a long legal history. But more, in such instances,
the standards were not to be applied in the uncontrolled
judgment of the administrative body. On the contrary,
the statutes require a complaint specifying the conduct
thought to violate the statute and opportunity for answer,
for hearing, for production of evidence, and for findings

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

which are subject to judicial review. With such a background for administrative procedure, what seems a loose
and vague standard becomes in fact a reasonably ascertain-

able one that can fairly, equitably, and justly be applied.
The other and distinct class of cases is that in which
Congress, as in the present instance, declares a policy and
entrusts to an administrative agent, without more, the

making of general rules and regulations for the implementation of that policy. These rules are, in all but
name, statutes. Here, unless the rule for the guidance of
the Administrator is clear, and the considerations upon
which he may act are definite and certain, it must inevitably follow that, to a greater or less degree, he will
make the law. No citizen can question the motive or
purpose of Congress in enacting a specific statute to control and define conduct as long as Congress acts within
the powers granted it by the Constitution. As has been
pointed out, Congress, in passing the Emergency Price
Control Act, has attempted to clothe its delegate-an Administrator-with the same unchallengeable legislative
power which it possesses. In this respect the delegation
is no different from that involved in the National Industrial Recovery Act which was held invalid in Schechter
Corp. v. United States, supra.
We are told that "Congress has specified the basic conclusions of fact upon the ascertainment of which by the
Administrator its statutory command is to become effective." This means, I take it, that the Administrator need
find no facts, in the accepted sense of the expression. He
need only form an opinion,-for every opinion is a conclusion of fact. And "basic" means, evidently, that his
opinion is that one of the "purposes of the Act" requires
the making of a law applicable to a given situation. It is
not of material aid that he discloses the reasons for his
action. Such a test of constitutionality was unanimously
rejected in the Schechter case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

The statute there in question declared the policy of
Congress to be "to remove obstructions to the free flow of
interstate and foreign commerce which tend to diminish
the amount thereof; and to provide for the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for the
purpose of cooperative action among trade groups, to
induce and maintain united action of labor and management under adequate governmental sanctions and supervision, to eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present productive capacity of industries, to avoid undue restriction
of production (except as may be temporarily required),
to increase the consumption of industrial and agricultural
products by increasing purchasing power, to reduce and
relieve unemployment, to improve standards of labor, and
otherwise to rehabilitate industry and to conserve natural
resources."
Under that Act the President was required to find that
the promulgation by him of a code of fair competition in
any industry would "tend to effectuate the policy" of
Congress as above declared. He did so find in promulgating the code there under attack.
I have already quoted what this court said with respect
to the so-called standards established by the statute.
That case and this fall into exactly the same category.
There it was held that the President's basic conclusions
of fact amounted to an exercise of his judgment as to
whether a law should come into being or not. Here it is
said that the Administrator's basic conclusions of fact are
but the enforcement of an enactment by Congress.
Whether explicitly avowed or not, the present decision
overrules that in the Schechter case.
The judgment of the Administrator is, by this Act, substituted for the judgment of Congress. It is sought to
make that judgment unquestionable just as the judg-

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
503

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

ment of Congress would be unquestionable once exercised
and embodied in a definite statutory proscription. But
Congress, under our form of Government, may not surrender its judgment as to whether there shall be a law,
or what that law shall be, to any other person or body.
The Emergency Price Control Act might have been
drawn so as to lay down standards for action by the Administrator which would be reasonably definite; it might
have authorized inquiries and hearings by him to ascertain facts which affect specific cases within the provisions
of the statute. That would have been a constitutional
and practicable measure. It has done no such thing.
But it is said the Administrator's powers are not absolute, for the statute provides judicial review of his action.
While the Act purports to give relief from rulings of the
Administrator by appeal to the Emergency Court of Appeals and to this court, the grant of judicial review is illusory. How can any court say that the Administrator has
erred in the exercise of his judgment in determining what
are defense activities? How can any court pronounce
that the Administrator's judgment is erroneous in defining a "defense-rental area"? What are the materials on
which to review the judgment of the Administrator that
one or another period in the last three years reflects, in a
given area, no abnormal, speculative, or unwarranted increase in rent in particular defense housing accommodations in a chosen defense-rental area? It is manifest that
it is beyond the competence of any court to convict the
Administrator of error when the supposed materials for
judgment are so vague and so numerous as those permitted by the statute.
One only need read the decisions of the Emergency
Court of Appeals to learn how futile it is for the citizen to
attempt to convict the Administrator of an abuse of judgment in framing his orders, how illusory the purported

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

321 U. S.

judicial review is in fact. I have spoken more at length
on this subject in my opinion in Yakus v. United States,
ante, p. 448.

I think the judgment of the District Court was right
and should be affirmed.
BILLINGS

v. TRUESDELL, MAJOR GENERAL,
UNITED STATES ARMY.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 215. Argued February 2, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. A registrant under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940
becomes "actually inducted" within the meaning of § 11 of the Act
when in obedience to the order of his draft board and after the
Army has found him acceptable for service he undergoes whatever
ceremony or requirements of admission the War Department has
prescribed. P. 559.
2. Until "actually inducted" within the meaning of § 11 of the
Selective Training and Service Act, a registrant under that Act
is subject solely to civil and not to military jurisdiction. P. 557.
3. A registrant under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940,
whose claim that he was a conscientious objector had been rejected, was ordered by his board to report for induction. At the
induction center he was examined and put in Class 1-B. He informed the officers in charge that he refused to serve in the Army
and that he wanted to turn himself over to the civil authorities.
He refused to take the oath, but it. was read to him and he was
told that he was in the Army. He was then ordered to submit to
fingerprinting, but refused to obey. Military charges were preferred against him for willful disobedience of that order. Held
that he was not subject to trial by court martial but was subject
solely to civil jurisdiction. Pp. 544, 558.
135 F. 2d 505, reversed.
CERTiORARI, 320 U. S. 725, to review the affirmance of
an order, 46 F. Supp. 663, discharging a writ of habeas
corpus and remanding the petitioner to the custody of the
respondent.

