DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
356 U. S.

" 273

April 14, 1958.

a seaman at the time of the accident within the meaning
of tle Jones Act, and I think that if a jury were so to find,
its verdict would have to he set aside. Desper v. Starved.
Rock Ferry Co., 342 U. S. 187. Because I would affirm
the judgment of the Court of Appeals on this grou.nd,
I do not reach the question whether the accident was
attributable in any way to respondent's negligence.

GEORGIA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 774. Decided April 14, 1958.
156 F. Supp. 711, affirmed.

Eugene Cook, Attorney General of Georgia, E. Freeman Leverett, Assistant Attorney General, W. H. Swig-.
gart, E. R. Leigh, Joseph L. Lenihan and W. L. Grubbs
for appellants.
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General
Hansen, Robert W. Ginnane, Samuel R. Howell and Isaac
K. Hay for the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, and Henry L. Walker, Arthuf J.
Dixon and James A. Bistline for the Southern Railway
Co. et al., appellees.
PER CURIAM.

The motions to .affirm are granted and the judgment is
affirmed.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

356"U. S.

FIDELITY-PHILADELPHIA TRUST CO. ET
SMITH, COLLECTOR OF
EXECUTORS, .v.
INTERNAL REVENUE.

AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

_No. 130. Argued January 30,-1958.-Decided April 28, 1958.
At the age of 76 and without a medical examination, petitioners'.
decedent purchased at regular rates three single-premium life'
insurance policies on her own life, payable to-nimed beneficiaries,
and, from the same companies at the same fime, as required by
these companies, three single-premium. nonrefundable life annuity
policies. The use and- enjc,yment of the annuity policies were
entirely independent of the life insurance policies; but the size 'of
each" annuity was calculated so that, in the event the annuitantinsure.d died prematurel-, the annuity premium, less the annuity
paynts alreald nrade, would combine with the 'life insurance
prniiium, plus interest, to equal the amount of insurance proceeds
to be p'id, plus expenses. The decedent received the annuities
throughout the remainder of hr lifetime but, paying a giff tax,
.be irrevocably assigned all rights and benefits under the insurance
plicies, including the rights to receive dividends, to change beneficiaries, and to surrender or as.sign the policies. Two policies were
assigned to her children and the third to a trustee, the decedent
Tetaining 110 benefici:l or reversionary interest in the trust. Held:
lieproceeds of the life insurance policies should not be Included in
-ffe d cedent's estate for the purpose of the federal estate tax
ui (der ยง 811 (c) (1) (B), of tie Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
Pp 275-281.
( fIclcring v. Le Gierse. 312 U. S. 531, di.'inguished.
Pp. 77-279.
(b) ,Under the assigmnient, the decedent had not'become a life
tenan who postponesthe possession and enjoyment of the property by" the remaindernien uintil her death. Pp,278-279.
(c) Nor are the assigines like second anntitants in survivorship
annuitij~s or joint :mnuitants in joint and survivor annuities.
P. 279, n. 5:
(d) The annuity payments were not income from property
which the iiasured tralnsferred to her children-under the life insur-

