BUTLER v. WHITEMAN.
Per Curiain.

BUTLER

ET AL.

v. WHITEMAN.

ON PETITION FOR *WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 200, Misc.

Decided April 14. 1958.

Certiorari granted.
In this case arising ander the .ones .Act, petitioner's evidence presented an evidentiary basis for jury X'dings as to whether or not
(1) the ttug* involved was in navigation, (2) the petitioner's
decedent was a seaman and member of the crew of the tug within
the meaning of the Jones Act, and (3) employer negligence played.
a part in producing decedent's death.
243F. 2d 563, reversed and cause remancaed for trial.
PER QJRIAM.

The motion for leave to proceed in formalpauperis and'
the petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The
judgment is reversed and the cause is remianded for tal.
We hold that the petitioner's evidence presented an evidentiary basis for jury'findings a-s to (1) whether or not
the tug G. W. Whiteman was -in navigation, Senkb v.
LaCrosse Dredging Corp., 352 U. S. 370, 373; Carumbo v.'
Cape Cod .S. S. Co., 123 F: 2d 991; (2). whether or not the
petitione.,"-' decedent "was a seamai and member of'the
crew of the tug within the meaning of the Jones Act,. 41
Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. ยง 688; Senko v. LaCrosse Dredging
Corp., supra; Gianfalav. T~xas. Co., 350 U. S. 879; South
-Chicago Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251; Grimes v.'Raymond
'Concrete Pile Co., 356 U. S. 252-; *and (3) jfheer or not
employer negligence played a part in producing decedent's
death. ' Ferguson v. Moore-McCo~mackLines, 352 U'. S..
'521; Rogers v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 352 .U. S. S00;
Schulz V. Pennsylvania R. Co., 350 U. S. 523:
For reasons set forth in his opinion in Aogers v. Missouri Pdcific R. Co., 352 .,U. S. 50U, 524, Mi. JTsmrvcz

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

FRANKFURTER is of the view that the writ of certiorari is

improvidently granted.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR.JJSTJCE WHITTAKER

joins, dissenting.
. I think the evidence is insufficient to raise a question
for the jury as to whether petitioner's deceden't at the time
of the accident was a seaman within the purview of the
Jones Act.
Respondent was the owner of a wharf, barge and tug,
all situated on the Mississippi- River. The barge was
moored to the wharf, and the tug was lashed to the
barge. On October 7, 1953, the decedent 'net death by
drowning in unclear circumstances. He was last seen
alive running across the barge to the tug, and it was
petitioner's theory of the case that the decedent had fallen
into the river between the barge and the tug, and that
respondent was liable under the Jones Act because of his
negligent failure to provide a gangplank for crossing
between the two vessels.
For some months before the accident the tug had been
withdrawn from navigation because it was inoperable.
During the entire year of 1953 the tug had neither captain
nor crew and reported no earnings; the only evidence
of its movement during the year relatdd to an occasion
on which it was towed to dry dock. At the time of the
accident the tug was undergoing- rehabilitation preparatory to a Coast Guard inspection, presumably in anticipation of a return to service. During the period of the tug's
inactivity, the decedent was employed as a laborer doing
odd jobs around respondent's wharf, and on the morning
of the accident he had been engaged in cleaning the boiler
of the tug.
In my opinion it taxes imagination to the breaking
point to consider this unfortunate individual to have been

