CASES ADJUDGED.
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

ET AL. v.

UNITED STATES.,
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 59. Argued January 7-8, 1958.-Decided March 10, 1958.
Under § 4 of the Sherman Act, the Government sued in a Federal
District Court for a declaration that appellant railroad's "prefer- ential routing" agreements are unlawful as unreasonable restraints
of trade under § 1.6f the Act.. Such agreements were incorporated
in several Northin deeds and leases to several million acres of land
western States, originally granted to the railroad to facilitate its
construction. They compel the grantees and lessees to ship over
the railroad's lines all commodities produced or manufactured on
the land, provided its. rates (and in some instances its service)
are equal to those of competing carriers. Many of the goods
produced on such lands are shipped from one State to another.
After various pretrial proceedings, the Government moved for
summary judgment. The district judge made numerous findings
based on pleadings, stipulations, depositions and answers to inter-rogatories; granted the Government's motion; and enjoined the
railroad from enforcing such "preferential routing" clauses. Held:
The judgment is affirmed. Pp. 2-12.
(a).A tying arrangement, whereby a party agrees to sell one
prodUct only on condition that the buyer also purchases a different
(or tied) product, or at least agrees that he will not purchaes ihat
product from any other supplier, is per se unrcasonable and unlawful under the Sherman Act whenever the seller h. suflicient
1

"OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

economic power with respect to the tying product to. restrain
appreciably.free. competition in the market for the tied product,
and a "not insubstantial" amount of interstate commerce is
affected. Pp. 5-7.
(b) Oh the record in this case, the undisputed facts established
beyond any genuine question that appellant possessed substantial
economic power by virtue of its extensive landholdings which it
used as leverage to induce-large numbers of purchasers and lessees
to give it preference, to the exclusion -of its competitors, in
carrying goods or produce from the land transferred to them, and
4hat a "not insubstantial" amount of interstate commerce was and
is affected. Pp. 7-8.
(c) The essential, prerequisites for treating appellant's tying
arrangements as unreasonable per se were conclusively established'
in the District. Court, and appellant has offered to prove nothing
there or here which would alter this conclusion. P. 8.
(d) The conclusion here reached is supported by International
Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, which was not limited b,
Times-Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States. 345 U. S. 594.

Prp. 8-1.
(e) That appellant's "preferential routing" claises are subject
to certain exceptions land may have been admiristered leniently
does not avoid their stifling effect on competition. Pp. 11-12.
142 F. Supp. 679, affirmed.,
M. L. Countryman, Jr:argued the Cause for appellants.
With him on the brief was Dean H. Eastman.
Daniel M. FPriedman argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Rankin, Assistant Attorney General Hansen; Henry
Geller, MargaretH. Brass and W. Louise Florencourt.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.,
In 1864 and 1870 Congress granted the predecessor of
the Northern Pacific-Railway Company approximately
forty million acres of land in several Northwestern States
and Territories to facilitate its construction of a railroad

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

3

Opinion of the Court.

line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound.1 In general
terms, this grant consisted of every alternate section of
land in a belt 20 miles wide on each side of the track
through States and 40 miles wide through Territories.
The granted lands were of various kinds; some contained
great stands of timber, some iron ore-or other valuable
mineral deposits, some oil or natural gas, while still other
sections, were useful for agriculture, grazing or industrial purposes. By 1949 the Railroad had sold about
37,000,000 acres of its holdings, but had reserved mineral
rights in 6,500,000 of those acres. Most of the unsold
land was leased for one purpose or another. In a large
number of its sales contracts and most of its lease agreements the Railroad had inserted "preferential routing"
clauses which compelled the grantee or lessee to ship over
its lines all commodities produced or manufactured on the
land, provided that its rates (and in some instances its
service) were equal tothose of competing carriers.! Since
many of the goods produced on the lands subject to these
"preferential rputing" provisions are shipped from one
State to another 'the actual and potential amount of interstate commerce affected is substantial. - Alternative
means of transportation exist for a large portion of these
shipments includiig the facilities of two'other major
railroad systems.,
, In 1949 the Government filed suit under § 4 -of the
Sherman Act seeking a declaration that the defendant's
"preferential routing" agreements were unlawful -as
\ 13 Stat. 365, 16 Stat. 378.

The details of these statutory grants

are' extensively set forth and discussed in United States v. Northern
Pacific R. Co., 256 U. S. 51, and United'States v. Northern Pacific
R. Co., 311 U. S. 317.
"The volume and nature of these restrictive provisions are set
forth in more detail hereafter. See note 6, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

unreasonable restraints of trade under § 1 of that Act.3
After various pretrial proceedings the Government moved
for summa'-y judgment contending that on the undisputed facts it vas entitled, as a matter. of law, to the
relief demanded. The district judge made numerous
findings, as set forth in substance in the preceding paragraph, based on the voliminous pleadings, stipulations,
depositions and answers to interrogatories filed in the case,
and then granted the Government's motion (with an
exception not relevant here). 142 F.' Supp. 679. He
issued an order enjoining the defendant from enforcing
the existing "preferential routing" clauses or from entering into any future agreements containing them. The
defendant took a direct appeal to this Court under § 2 of
the Expediting Act of 1903, 32 Stat. 823, as amended,
15 U. S. C. § 29, and we noted probable jurisdiction.
352 U. S. 980:
'The Sherman Act was designed to be a comprehensive
charter of economic liberty aimed at preserving free and
unfettered competition as the rule df trade. It rests on
the premise that the unrestrained interaction of competitive forces will yield the best allocation of our economic
resources, the lowest pries, the highest quality and the
greatest- material progress, while at the same time providing an environment conducive to thr preservation .of
our democratic political and socialinstitutions. But even
were that premise open to question, the policy unequivocally laid cewn by the.Act is competition. And to this
end it prohibits "Every contract, combination . . . or
3 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 4. Actually there are
two defendants here, the Northern Pacific Railway Company and its
wholly owned subsidiary Northwestern Improvement CompWy hlic)b
sells, leases and manages the Railroad's lands. For convenience'ana
since- Northvestern is completely controlled by the Railroad we shbl
speak of the two of them as a single "defendant" or as the "Railrnad."

NORTHERN PAC. A. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

5.

Opinion of the Court.

conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the
several States." Although this prohibition is literally allencompassing, the courts have construed it as precluding
only those contracts or combinations which "unreasonably" restrain competition. Standard Oil Co. of New
Jersey v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; Chicago Board of
Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231.
However, there are certain agreements or practices
which because of their pernicious effect on competition
and lack of any- redeeming virtue are conclusively presumed to be unreasonable and therefore illegal without
elaborate inquiry as to the precise harm they have caused
or the business excuse for- their use. This principle of
per sq unreasonableness not only. makes the typ5e of
restraints which are proscribed by the Sherman Act more
certain to. the benefit of everyone concerned, but it also
avoids the necessity for an incredibly complicated and
prolonged economic investigation into the entire-history
of the industry involved, as well as related industries, in an
effort to determine-at large whether a particular restraint
has been unreasonable-an inquiry so often wholly fruitless when. undertaken.j Among the practices Which. thecourts have heretofore deemed to bd unlawful in and of
themselves are price fixing, United States v. SoconyVacaum Oil Co., 1310 .U. S.150, 210; division of.markets,
United States v. Addyston Pipe &.Steel Co., 85 F. 271,
aff'd, 175 U. S.211; group boycotts, Fashion Originators'
Guild v. FederalTrdde Comm'n, 312 U. S.457; and tying
arrangements, internationalSalt Co. v. United States, 332
U. S.392.
For our purposes a tying arrangement may be defined
as an agreement by a party to sell-one product but only
on the condition that the buyer also purchases a different
,(or tied) product, or at least agrees, that he will not

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.

6

Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

purchase that product from any other supplier.' Where
such conditions are successfully exacted competition on
the merits with respect to the tied product is inevitably
curbed. Indeed "tying. agreements serve hardly any
purpose -beyond the suppression of competition." Standard Oil Co. of Californiav. United States, 337 U. S. 293,
305-306.1 They deny competitors free access to the
market for the tied product, not because the party imposing the tying requirements has a better product or
a lower price but because of his power or leverage in
another market. At "the same time buyers are forced
to forego their free choice between competing products.
For these reasons "tying agreements fare harshly under
the laws forbidding restraints of trade." Times-Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S. 594,
606. They are unreasonable in and of themselves whenever a party has sufficient economic power with respect
to the tying product to appreciably restrain free competition in the market for the tied product and a "not
insubstantial" amount of interstate commerce is affected.
International Salf Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392.
Cf. United States v. Paramount Pictures, 334 U. S. 131,
156-159; United States v. Griffith, 334 U. S. 100. Of
course where the seller has no control or dominance.
over the tying product so that it. does not represent an
effectual weapon to pressure buyers into taking the tied
item any restraint of trade attributable to such tying-ai•rangements would obviously be insignificant at most. As
4 Of

course where the buyer is free to take either product by

itself there is no tying problem even though the seller may also
offer the two items as a unit at a single price.
As this Court has previously pointed out such nonanticompetitive
purposes as these" arrangements'have been asserted to possess can be
adequately'accQmplished by other means much less inimical to competition. See, e. g., InternationalBusiness Machines Corp. v. United
States, 298 U. S. 131; International-Salt Co. v. United States, 332
U. S. 32.

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

7

Opinion of the Court.

a simple example, if one of a dozen food stores in a community were to refuse to sell flour unless the buyer also
took sugar it Wvould hardly tend to restrain competition in
sugar if its competitors were ready and able to sell flour by
itself.
In this case-we believe the district judge was clearly correct
entering summary judgment declaring the defendant'sin"preferential
routing" clauses unlawful restraints of
trade. We wholly agree that the undisputed facts established beyond any genuine question that the defendant
possessed substantial economic power by virtue of its
extensive landholdings'whicti it used as leverage to induce
large numbers of purchasers and lessees to give it preference, to the exclusion of its competitors, in'carrying goods
or produce from the' land transferred to them. ,Nor can
there be any real doubt that a "not insubstantial" amouhit
of interstate commerce was and is affected by these restrictive provisions.
As pointed out. before, the defendant was initially
granted large acreages by Congress in the several Northwestern States tlrough which its lines now run. This
land was strategically located in checkerboard fashion
amid privatti h6ldings and within economic distance
of transportation facilities. Not only the testim6ny of
various witnesses but common sense makes it evident that
this particular land was often prized by those who purchased or leased. it and was frequently essential to their
business activities. In disposing of -its holdings the defendant entered into contracts of. sale or lease covering
at least several million acres of land which included
"preferential routing" clauses.6 The very existence of
The district' judge found (and his findings are not challenged
here) that -as of 1949 there were • (1') over 1,000 grazing leases covering more than 1,000,000 acres of land, (2) at feast 72 contracts for
the sale of timberland covering 1,244,137 acres, (3) at least 31 timber
sale contracts covering 100,585 acres, (4) at least 19 oil and gas

OCTOBER TERM, 1957,
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

this host of tying arrangements is itself compelling
evidence of the defendant's great power, at least where,
as here, no other explanation has been offered for the
existence of these, restraints. The "preferential routing"
clauses conferred no benefit on the purchasers or lessees.
While they got the land they wanted by yielding their
freedom to deal with competing care-ers, .the defendant
makes no, claim that it came any cheaper than -if the restrictive clauses had been omitted. In fact any such price
reduction in return for rail shipments would have quite
plainly constituted an unlawful rebate to the.shipper.
So far as the Railroad was'concerned its purpose obviously
was to fence out competitors, to stifle competition. While
this may have beer exceedingly beneficial to its business,
it is the very type of thing the Sherman Act condemns.
In short, we are convinced that the essential prerequisites
for treating the defendant's tying arrangements as unreasonable "per se" were conclusively established below and
that the defendant has offered to prove nothing there or
here which would alter this conclusion.
In our view InternationalSalt Co. v. United States, 332
U. S. 392, which has been unqualifiedly approved by subsequent decisions, is ample authority for affirming the
judgment below. In that- case the defendant refused
leases covering 135,000 acres, (5) at least 16 iron ore leases covering
5,261 acres, (6) 12 coil leases (acreage not specified), and (7) at
least .17 other mineral leases covering 6,810 acres which contained
"preferential routing" clauses. .
The grazing leases, timber sales contracts, timberland sales contracts and in sorihe instances the mineral land leases obligated the
vendee or lessee to ship its products by way of the defendant's lines
unless rates of competitors were lower; the oil and gas leases, coal
leases and the remainder of the mineral land leases, uhless the rates
were lower or the service better; the iron ore leases, unle4s the
- defendant's rates, service and facilities were equal to those of any
competing line.
749 U. S. C. §§ 2, 6 (7), 41 (3)

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
1

9

Opinion of the Court.

to lease its salt-dispensing machines unless the lessee
also agreed to purchase-all the salt it used in the machines from the defendant. It was established that the
defendant had made about 900 leases under such copditions and that in the year in question it had sold about$500,000 worth of salt for use in the leased machines. On
that basis we affirmed unanimously a summary judgm'ent
finding the defendant guilty of violating § 1 of the-Sherman Act., The Court ruled that it was "unreasonable, per
se, to foreclose competitors from any substantial maket"
by tying arrangements. As we later analyzed the decision, ('it was -not established that equivalent machines
were unobtainable, it was not indicated what proportion
of the business of suppling such machines was controlled by defendant; and it was deemed irrelevant that
there was no evidence as to the actual effect of the tying
clauses upon competition." Standard Oil Co. of California v. United States, 337 U. S. 293, 305.
The defendant attempts to evade the force of International Salt on the ground that the tying product there
was patented while here it js not. But we do not believe this distinction has, or should have, any sigiiificance. In arriving at its decision in. International Salt
the"Court placedno reliance on the fact that.a patent was
involved nor did it give the slightest intimation that the
outcome would have been any different if ihat had not
been the case. If anything, the Court held the challenged tying arrangements unlawful'despite the fact that
the tyfng item was patented, not because of it. "By
contracting to close this market for salt against competition,, International has engaged in a restraint of trade
for which its patents afford no immuDnity from the antitrust'laws." .332 U. S.,.a 396. Nor have subsequent
cases confined the rule of per se unreasonablefiess laid
down -in International Salt to situations. involving patents. Cf. United.States v. Griffith, 334 U. S.:100; United
458778 0-58-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

States v. ParamountPictures, 334 U. S. 131, 156; TimesPicayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S.
594.
The defendant argues that the holding in International
Salt was limited by the decision in Times-Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S. 594. There the
Court held that a unit system of advertising in two local
newspapers did not violate § 1 of the Sherman Act. On
the facts before it the majority found there was no tying
problem at all since only one product was involved and
that, in any event, the defendant did not possess sufficient
economic power in the advertising market to bring its
unit rule within the principle of per se unreasonableness.
But the Court was extremely careful to confine its decision to the narrow record before it. Id., at 627-628. And
far from repudiating any of the principles set forth in
International Salt it vigorously reasserted them by
broadly' condemning tying arrangements as wholly inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the antitrust
laws. In the Court's forceful terms, "Tying arrangements . . . flout the Sherman Act's policy that competition rule the marts of trade. . . By conditioning his
sale of one c6mmodity on the purchase of another, a seller
coerces the abdication of buyers' independent judgment
as to the 'tied' product's merits and insulates it from the
competitive stresses of the open market. But any
intrinsic superiority of the 'tied' product would convince
8 Of course it is common knowledge that a patent does not always
confer a monopoly over a particular commodity. Oftqn the patent

is limited to a unique foim or improvement'of, the product and the
economic power resulting from the patent privileges is slight.. As
a matter of fact the defendant in Internatioda Salt offered to
prove that competitive salt machines were 'readily .available which
were satisfactory substitutes for its'machines" (a-fact the Government did. not controvert), but the Court regaided such proof as
irrelei'ant.

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
I

11

Opinion of the Court.

freely choosing buyers to select it over others, anyway."
Id., at 605.
While there is some language in the Times-Picayune
opinion which speaks" of "monopoly" power" or "dominance" over the tying product as a necessary precondition
for application of the rule of per se unreasonableness to
tying arrangements, we do not construe this general language as requiring anything more than sufficient economic power to impose an appreciable restraint on*free
competition in the tied product (assuming all the time,
of course, that a "not- insubstantial" amount of*interstate comnierce is affected). To give it any other construction • would be wholly out of accord with the opinion's cogent analysis of the nature and baneful effects of
tying arrangements and their incompatibility with the
policies underlying the Sherman Act. Times-Picayune,
of course, must be viewed in context with. International
Salt and our other decisions concerning tying agreements.
There is no warrant for treating it as a departure from
those cases. Nor did it purport to be any such thing;
rather it simply made an effort to restate the governin'g
considerations in this area as set forth in the prior cases.
And in so doing it makes clear, as do those cases, that the
vice of tying arrangements lies in the use of economic
power in one market to restrict competition on the merits
in another, regardless of the source from which the power
is derived and whether the power takes thi form of a
monopoly or not.
The defendant contends that its "preferential routing"
clauses are subject to so many exceptions and have been
administered so leniently •that they do not significantly
restrain competition. It points out that these clauses
permit the vendee or lessee to ship by competiig carrier
if its rates are lower (or in some instances if its service
is better) than the defendant's. Of course if these re9See note 6, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U.S.

strictive provisions are merely harmless sieves with no
tendency to restrain competition, as the defendant's argument seems to imply, it is hard tc understand why it has
expended so much effort in obtaining them in vast numbers and upholding their validity, or how they are of any
benefit to anyone, even the defendant. But however
that may be, the essential fact remains- that these agreements are binding obligations held over the heads of
vendees which deny defendant's competitors access to the
fenced-off market on the same terms as the defendant.
In International Salt the defendants similarly argued
that their tying arrangements were inoffensive restraints
because they allowed lessees to buy salt from other suppliers when they offered a lower price than International.
The Court's answer there is equally apt here.
"[This exception] does, of course, afford a measure
cf protection to the lessee, but it does not avoid the
stifling effect of the agreement on competition. The
appellant had at all times a priority on the business at
equal prices. A competitor would have to undercut
appellant's price to have any hope of capturing the
market, while appellant could hold that market by
merely meeting competition. We do not think this
concession relieves the contract of being a. restraint
of trade, albeit a less harsh one than wotild result
in the absence of such a provision." 332 U. S., at
397.
All of this is only aggravated, of course, here in the'regulated transportation industry where there is freq..ently io
real rate competition at all and such effectivecompetition
as actually thrives takes other forms.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
HARLAN,

13

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKand MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER join, dissenting.

FURTER

The Court affirms summary judgment for the Government by concluding that "the essential prerequisiteg for
treating the defendant's tying arrangements as unreasonable 'per se' were conclusively established below .... .
In my view, these .prerequisites were not established, and
this case should be remanded to the District Court for a.
trial on the issue whether appellants' .landholdings gave
them that amount of control over the relevant market for
land necessary under this Court's past decisions to make
the challenged tying clauses violative per se of the Sherman Act. Further, in light of the Court's disposition ,of
the. case and the nature of the findings made, below,
I think that the Court's discussion of InternationalSalt
Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, is apt to produce
confusion a to what proof is necessary to show per se
illegality of tying clauses in future Sherman Act cases..
Because the Government necessarily based its complaint on § 1 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended,
15'U. S. C. § 1, rather than on § 3 of the Clayton Act,1
it was required to show that the challenged tying clauses
constituted unreasonablerestraints of trade, see Standard
Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States, 221 U. S. 1. As
a result, these tying clauses raise legal issues different
from those presented by the legislitively defined tying
clauses invalidated under the more pointed prohibitions
of the Clayton Act. Times-Picayune.Publishing Co. v.
United States, 345 U. S. 594, has made it clear beyond
dispute that both proof of dominance in the market for
the tying product and a showing that an appreciable
volume of business in the tied product is restrained are
'The tying arrangements proscribed by § 3 of the Clayton Act
relate only to "goods, wares, merchandise, machinery, supplies or
other commodities ....
" 38 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957..
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

1 356 U. S.

Essential conditions to judicial condemnation of a tying
clause as a per se violation of the Sherman Act.2 345
U. S., at 608-611. These -firm requirements derive from'
an awareness that the vice apt to exist in tying agreements "is the wielding of monopolistic leverage; a seller
exploits his dominant position in one market to expand
his empire into the next." 345 U. S., at 611. It is not,
as the Court intimates at one point in its opinion, that
rinder the Sherman Act the tying clause is illegal per se;
the per se illegality results from its use by virtue of a
vendor's dominance over the tying interest to foreclose
competitors from a substantial market in the tied'interest.
My primary difficulty with the Court's affirmance of
the judgment below is that the District Court made no
finding that the appellants had a "dominant position"
or, as this Court now puts it, "sufficient economic power,"
in the relevant land market. Such a finding would indicate that those requiring land of the character owned by
the appellants would be driven to them for it, thereby
putting appellants in a position to foreclose competing
carriers, through the medium of tying clauses, from shipping the produce from the lands sold or leased. The District Court seems to have conceived that no more need
be shown on this score than that the appellants owned
the particular tracts of land sold. or -leased subject to a
tying clause. Thus it said:
"Defendants argue .that the first tying element,
i. e., market domination over the tying product, is
not established be'cause the record does not show the
- proportion of N. P. [Northern Pacific] lands of various types to the total of the lafhds of thesame typessold and leased in the area of defendants' operations.
2 The

Court there stated that the presence of either factor is sufficient for invalidation of a tying clause under the Clayton Act. 345
U. S., at 608-609.

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
HARLAN;

15

J., dissenting.

This contention ignores the plain language of the
cited decisions ["tying clause" cases in this Court],
providing that market dominance of 'the tying commodity' is required. The tying commodity need
only be the particularproperty or product to 'which
forced purchase of the second commodity is tied;
certainly it does not necessarily include all of the
similar and competing commodities which may be in
the market...
"The tying commodity in the present case is the
land presently or formerly owned by N. P. Unrestricted fee-simple title to land vests in the owner
absolute domination of the market in such land. By
the ownership of the lands and resulting dominance
in the market therefor defendants were able to
impose the traffic clauses in question on the grantees
and lessees of the land." (Italics added.) 142 F.
Supp. 679, 684.
In conformity with these views the ultimate fidings of
the District Court on the issue of "control'" were only
these:
"37. Defendants, as sellers and as lessors, by reason of title in fee simple, have dominance in the lands
now owned by them and had dominance in the lands
formerly owned at the time of sale of such lands.
[Italics added.]
"38. Defendants have used their dominance in the
lands sold and leased to require purchasers and lessees
to purchase and use Northern Pacific's transportation
service, under the conditions stated in finding 10.".
(Finding 10 relates to the terms of the tying clauses.)

I do not think that these findings as to appellants'
ad hoc "dominance" over the particular land sold or leased
suffice to meet the showing of market control which
Times-Picayune established as one of the essential pre-

16'

OCTOBER TERM, '1957.
HARFAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

requisites to holding tying clauses illegal per se under the
Sherman' Act. In effect -the District Court's view bypassed that requirement and made the validity.of these•
tying clauses depend enitirely on thu commercialrestraint
accomplished by them. The'District Cou t-should have'
taken evidence of the relative strength of 'appellants'
landholdings vis-a-vis that of others in the aplropriate
market for land of the types now or fornferlypossessed by
appellafits,' of the "uniqueneis" of appellants' landholdinigs in terms of quality or use to which they. may have
been put, and of the extent to which the location of the
lands on or near tdie Northern :Pacific's railrQad -ine, or'
any other circumstances, put the appellants in a jtvategic
position as against other sellers 'and lessors df land.
Short of such an inquiry I do not see how it can be' deter-'
mined whether the appellantsoccupied such -a dominant
position in the rejevant land market, cf. United States v.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.* 351 U. S. 377, as to make
'these tying clauses illegal per se under the Sherman Act.
Explanation for the' Court's failure to. remand with
instructions to poirsue'such an inquiry- apparently lies in
part in its statement that the "very existence of this host
of tying arrangements is itself compelling evidence-of the
defendant's great power" over the land market. I donot
deny that there may be instances where economic coercion By a vendor may be inferred, -without any direct
showing of- market dominance, from the mere existence of
the tying arrangements themselves, as where the vendee
3

The findings entered by the District Court make no reference
to appellants' percentage ownership of a proper matket for land,
and ifideed the'record contains in only one instance statisfics
bearing. on -this problem. In the period between 1935 and 1942, it
appears that appellants' holdings of merchantable timber in Montana,
Idalo,, and Washington constituted approximately .5% of the total
-merchantable timber in those States.
.

NORTHERN PAC.R. CO.- v. UNITED STATES.
1

HAAI,

17

J., dissenting.

is apt to suffer. economic detriment from the tying clause
because precluded from purchasing a tied product at better terms or of a better quality elsewlere. But the tying
clauses here are not -cast in such absolute terms. The
record indicates that a large m'ajority'of appellants'
lands were close to the Northern Pacific lines and thus
vendees or lessees of these lands might be expected to
utilize Northern Pacific as a matter of course. *Further,
substantially all the .tyinrg clauses, as found by the District Court, contained provisos leaving the vendee-or
lessee free to ship by other railroads when offered either
lower rates or lower rates or superior service. In these
circumstances it would appear that the inclusion of the
tying clauses in contracts or leases might have been
largely a matter of indifference to at least many of the
purchasers or lessees of appellants' land, and hence that
more is needed than the tying clauses themselves to warrant the inference that acceptance of the tying clauses
resulted from coercion exercised by appellants through
their position in the land market.
Particularly'in view of the Court's affirmance of a judgment based on so inadetquate a record, I have further difficulty with the opinion in its treatment of Internationdl
Salt, the decision on which the Court principally relies.
The Court'regards that case as making irrelevant proof of
market dominance in the tying interest, but it seems to
me that Times-Picayune has laid to rest all doubt as to
'the need for clear proof on. this issue. In fact that case
considered that in InternationalSalt the required element
of proof was supplied by the patents themselves which
"conferred monopolistic, albeit lawful, market control"
over the tying product, '345 U. S., at 608, as indeed the
Court in InteriationalSalt itself suggested by prefacing
its holding with the statement that "[defendant's] patents confer a limited monopoly of, the invention they

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U.S..

reward." 332 U. S., at 395. Still the Court today states
that the tying clauses were there struck down despite the
fact that the tying product was patented. In short, insofar as the Sherman Act is concerned, it appears that
International Salt simply treated a patent as the"
equivalent of proof of market control-a view further
supported by what was said about InternationalSalt in
Standard Oil Co. of Californiav. United States, 337 U. S.
293, at 304, 307.
The reliance on InternationalSalt with the new scope
the Court now gives it is puzzling in light of the Court's
express recognition that a finding of sufficient economic
power over land to restrict competition in freight services
is an essential element here. The Court heightens this
paradox by its effort to satisfy this requirement with the
assertion that "undisputed facts" conclusively established
the existence of this power. But in so concluding, it
could hardly rely on the market-dominance findings
below which, as I have tried to show, rested upon the District Court's evident misconception of Times-Picayune.
I do not understand the Court to excuse findings as
to control by adopting the Government's argument that
this case should be brought within InternationalSalt by
analogy of the ownership of land to that of a patent,
so tl-at the particular tract of land involved in each purchase or lease itself constitutes the relevant market. The
record in any event is without support for such a theory.
No findings were made below as to the uniqueness of any
of appellants' lands either because of their location 4 or
4 Affidavits before the District Court did indicate that certain landholdings of appellants, particularly grazing lands, were in a checkerboard pattern among private holdings, thereby giving appellants a
strategic position with respect to these lands since the private landholders often .found it necessary to acquire appellants' lands to fill

NORTHERN PAC. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

19

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

because of their peculiar qualities enabling production
of superior mineral, timber, or agri6ultural products:
Without such an inquiry, I do not see how appellants'
supposed dominance of the land market can be based on
the theory that their lands were "unique."
Finally, the Court leaves in unsettling doubt the
future effect of its statement that the use of the word
"dominance" in Times-Picayune implies no more of a
showing of market dominance than "sufficient economic
power to impose an appreciable restraint on free compe ition in.the tied product." As an abstraction one* can
hardly quarrel with this piece of surgery, for I do not
claim that a monopoly in the sense of § 2 of the Sherman
Act must be shown over a tying product. As already
indicated, I should think that a showing of "sufficient
economic power" in cases of this kind could be based upon
a variety of factors, such as significant percentage control of the relevant market, desirability of the product
to the purchaser, use of tying clauses which would be
likely to result -ineconomic detriment to vendees or
lessees, and such uniqueness of the tying product as to,
suggest comparison with a monopoly by patent. But I
venture to predict that the language of the Court, taken
in conjunction with its approval of the summary disposition of this case, will leave courts and lawyers in confusion as to what the proper standards now are for judging
tying clauses under the Sherman Act.
The Court's action in affirming the judgment below
sanctions what I deem to be a serious abuse of the
0sumnary judgment procedures. Cf. Sartor v. Arkansas
Natural Gas Corp., 321 U. S. 620. A record barren of
facts adequate to support either a finding of economic
gab in existing ranges. The amount of such land does not appear,
and I do n6t think that these ,iffidavits justify short-circuiting an
inquiry into the broad issue of market dominance.

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

power over a relevant land market or a findiing that the
land involved is so unique as to constitute in itself the
relevant market is remedied by this Court's reliance upon
"common sense" and judicial notice of appellants' commanding position. But these are poor substitutes for the
proof to which the Government should be put. I would
remand to the District Court for a trial and findings on
the issue of "dominance."

