OCTOBER TERM, 1957..
Opinion of the Court.

356 U.S.

SINKLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS

OF TEXAS,

NINTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

No. 133.

Argued March.12-13, 1958.-Decided April 28, 1958.

When a railroad employee's injury is caused in whole or in part by
.the fault of others performing, under contract, operational activities of his eniployer, such others are "agents" of the employer
within the meaning of § 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Pp. 326-332.
295 S. W. 2d 508, reversed and cause remanded.

Cornelius 0. Ryan argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief Were Robert H. Kelley and
J. Edwin Smith.
Roy L. Arterbury argued. the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Walter F. Woodul.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner was employed by the respondent railroad-as a cook on the private car of respondent's general
manager. He was working on the car when a switching
crew, employed by the Houston Belt & Terminal Railway
Company (hereinafter the Belt Railway), undertook to
switch the car from one track to another in the Union
Station at Houston, Texas. Through the fault of the
switching crew, the car was caused violently to collide
with another railroad car in the station, and the petitioner
was injured. He recovered a judgment againstthe respondent in an action brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C.
§§ 51-60, in the District Court of Harris. County, Texas.

SINKLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO. 327
.826

Ophilon of the Court

The Court of Civil Appeals for the Ninth Supreme Judicil District of Texas reversed upon the-ground that the
FELA did not subject the respondent 'to liability for
injuries of its employep caused by the fault of employees
of tle Belt Railway. 295 S.'W.,.2d 508- The Supreme
Court of Texas denied the petitioner's application for writ
of error. We granted certiorari. 355 U. S. 809.
9Nither the respondent railroad nor its predecessors
have, gince 1905, performed switching operations in the
Houston terminal area. Switching is'a vital operational
activity of railroading consisting in the breaking up andy
assembly of tiains and the handlirg of cars in interchange
with other carriers. This function, in the Houston area,
has been contracted by the respondent -and iti-predecessors, and other carriers, to the Belt Railway, a carrier
specially organized for that purpose.
The Belt Railway was organized by several carriers,
including the rredecessors of the respondent,' to own
and operate the Union Station and to perform these
switching operatiohs. The organizing cirriers, or their
successors, .own the"Belt'Railway' stock and are represented- on its Board of Directors in proportion to their
* The respondent owns-one-half of the stock and
*designates one-half of the directors. The Belt Railway
receives some income frbm nonstockholding ckrriers but'
the carrier stockholders otherwise share the net expenses
of its operations according to an agreed formula. The
Belt Railway employs its own switching crews and other
-holdings.

1

The stock of the Belt- Railwar was originially subscribed to by
four railroad corporations. The two which were -predecessors in
interest to the predent respondent were the Beaumont, Sbur Lake
& Western and the St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico." Thig suit.was
brought oriiinally against Thompson, Trustee'in Baffkruptcy -for
these iwo roads.' Upon their reorganization as part of th& Missouri
Pacific, the respondent was substituted as party defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

personnel, and owns and operates the facilities and rollir .
stock used in the switching operations.
A railroad's liability under § 1 of the FELA is to compensate its employees in damages for injuries resulting
in whole or in part from the fault of "any of the officers,
agents, or employees" of such carrier. 45 U. S. C. § 51.
No question of liability for the fault of officers or employees of the respondent is here raised, but only whether
the petitioner's injuries were due to the fault of "agents"
of the respondent within the meaning of the section.
. The Court of Civil Appeals held that, since the Belt
Railway was an independent contractor under lawful contract with respondent to do the switching operations on
its behalf, the petitioier's injuries were not caused by
respondent's "agents." The Court of CiVil Appeals
applied the general rule that the doctrine of respondeat
s.perior does not extend to independent contractors and
concluded that, since the evidence was insufficient to show
-that the respondent exercised control over the details of
the Belt Railway's operations,, the fault of its switching
crew was not imputable to the respondent.2
.It should first be noted that some common-law jurisdictions recognized an exception to the general rule of
respondeat superior when a railroad engaged an independent contractor to perfoim operational activities
required to carry out the franchise. In that circumstance
the railroad was held liable for the fault of the servants of
the independent contractor even though the railroad did
not control the manner or method by which the latter did
the contracted work. Different theories supported this
2 The jury, in response to special issues submitted to it by the trial
judge, had expressly found that the Belt Railway "submits itself
to the right of control and supervision of the other [respondent]
with respect to all the details of such work."

SINKLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO. 329
326

Opinion of the Court.

liability, depending upon whether the person injured was
an employee of the railroad, a passenger, or a third party.
In the case of the employee the theory was phrased as a
nondelegable duty of care springing from the contractual
relationship between employer and employee, Floody v.
Great Northern R. Co., 102 Minn. 81, 112 N. W. 875, or
as a duty springing from the franchise to. see that no
wrong is done through the exercise by other persons of
chartered powers. North Chicago Street R. Co. v.
Dudgeon, 184 Ill. 477, 56 N. E. 796. However. phrased,
substantial authority in common-law decisions supported
recovery by the railroad employee from his emnployer for
injuries caused by the fault of employees of an independent contractor performing a part of the employer's
railroad operations.'
However, in interpreting the FELA, we need not
depend upon common-law principles of liability. This
statute, an avowed departure from the rules. of the common law,'cf. Rogers v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 352 U.'S.
500, 507-509, was a' iesponse to the special needs of railroad workers who are daily exposed to the risks inherent
in railroad work and are helpless to provide adequately
for their own safety. Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co.,
318 U. S. 54. The cost of human injury, an inescapable
expense of railroading, must be borne by someone, and the
FELA seeks to adjust that expense equitablybetween the
worker and the carrier. Kernan v. American Dredging
Co., 355 U. S. 426, 431, 438. The Senate Committee
3 Wabash, St. L. & P. R. Co. v. Peyton, 106 Ill. 534, 46 Aih. Rep.
..27.5;_Burnes v. Kansas City, Ft. S. & M. R. Co., 129 Mo. 4.1, 31 S. W.
347; Story v. Concord & M. R. Co., 70 N. H. 364, 48 A: 288; Gulf,
C. &.S. F. R. Co. v. Shelton, 96 Tex. 301, 72.S. W. 165; Gulf, C.*AS. F. R. Co. v. Shearer, 1 Tex. Civ. App.'343, 21 S. W. 133;
Fort Worth & D. C. R. Co. v. Smith, 39 Tex. Civ. App. 92, 87 S. W.
.371; but see Brady.v. Chicago & G. W. R. Co., 114 F. 100.
48778 0-58-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

which reported the Act stated that it was, designed to
achieve the broad purpose of promoting
"the welfare of both employer and employee, by
adjusting the losses and injuries inseparable from
industry and commerce to the strength of those who
in the nature of the case ought to share the burden."
S. Rep. No. 460, 60th Cong., 1st Sess. 3.
Thus while the common law had generally regarded the
torts of fellow servants as separate and distinct from the
torts of the employer, holding the latter responsible only
for his own torts, it was the conception of this legislation
that the railroad was a unitary enterprise, its economic
-resources obligated to bear the burden of all injuries
befalling those engaged in the enterprise arising out of the
fault of any other member engaged in the common
endeavor. Hence a railroad worker may recover from his
employer for an injury caused in whole or in part by a
fellow worker, not because the employer is himself to
blame, but because justice demands that one who gives
his labor to the furtherance of the enterprise should
be assured that all coinbining their exertions with him
in the common pursuit will conduct themselves in all
respects with- sufficient care that hi8 safety while doing
his part will not be endangered. If this standard is
not met and injy results, the worker, is compensated in
damages.
This broad purpose controls our decision in determining whether the Belt Railway and its switching crew were
"agents" of the respondent within the meaning of the
section.' Plainly an accbmmodating scope must be.given
4 It may be significant that there was omitted, from the section as
enacted:the language in the original bills which would have imposed
liability upon a carrier for the fault""of any other person subject to

SINKLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO. 331
326

Opinion of the Court.

to the word "agents" to give vitality to the standard governing the liability of carriers to their workers injured on
the job.' See Kernan v. American Dredging Co., supra,
at 431-432, 438-439.
In the present case the respondent, rather than .doing
the necessary switching incident to its business in the
Houston Terminal area, arranged that the Belt Railway
should supply the crews and equipment to perform this
operation on its behalf. But the evidence clearly establishes that the respondent's trains, when under the control
of the Belt Railway's switching crews, were being handled
to further the task of the respondent's enterprise. While
engaged in switching and handling respondent's cars and
trains -about the terminal "area, the Belt Railway employees on the job were, for purposes of the FELA, as
much a part of the respondent's total enterprise as was
the petitioner while engaged in his regular work on the
respondent's car.
It is manifest that the corporate autonomy of the Belt
Railway, and its freedom from detailed supervision of its
operations by respondent, are irrelevant inasmuch as the
switching crew of the Belt Railway Company at the
moment of the collision in the station was engaged in furthering the operational activities of respondent. We
therefore hold that when a railroad employee's injury is
caused in whole or in part by the fault of others performing, under contract, operational activities of his employer,
its control."

Hearings before the Senate Committee on Education

and Labor on S. 5307, 60th Cong., ist Sess. 3, 34; Hearings before the
House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 17036, 60th Cong., 1st
Sess. 3,34.
5Respondent's reliance on Robinson v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 237
U. S. 84, and Linstead v. Chesapeake & 0. R. Co., 276 U. S. 28, is
misplaced. The issue in each of those cases was whether the plaintiff
was an employee of the defendant railroad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HAPLAw,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

such others are "agents" of-.:th:-employer within the
meaning of § 1 of FELA.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
concurs in the result, believing that
for pfirposes of the FELA, the Belt Railway was performing a nondelegable duty of respondent's at the time
of petitioner's injury.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK

MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER, believing that petitioner was
not only respondent/s employee but, in the circumstances
of this case, was also. its passenger at the time and place
in question and that respondent's franchised carrier
responsibilities to him as its passenger Were nondelegable,
concurs in the result of this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,
FURTER

whom MR. JUSTICE FRANK-

joins, dissenting.

This case is a further step in a course of decisions
through which the Court has been rapidly converting the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65; as
amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60 (and the Jones Act, which
incorporates the FELA, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688),
into what amounts to a workmen's compensation statute.
This process recently gained. marked momentum with
Rogers v. Missoun Pacific R. ,Co., 352 U. S. 500, 524, 559,
decided at the 1956 Term, where the Court in effect established a "scintilla" rule in these cases for judging the
sufficiency of the evidence on the issue of "'causation."
In subsequent decisions that rule has been extended, sub
silentio, to cover also the issue of "negligence."' More
'Webb v. Illinois Central R. Co., 352 U. S., 512; Ferguson v.
Moore-McCormack Lines, Inc., 352 U. S. 521; Shaw v. Atlantic
Cbast Line R. Co., 353 U. S. 920; Futrelle v. Atlantic Coast Line

SINKLER v.. MISSOURI PACIFIC R. CO.
326

HARLAN,

333

J., dissenting.

recently in Kernan v. American Dredging Co., 355 U. S.
426, decided a few months ago, the Court still further
expanded these enactments to embrace a concept of absolute liability for violation of any statutory duty occasioning injury to one entitled to sue under them. And today
we are told that ".

.

. when a railroad employee's injury

is caused in whole or in part by the fault of others performing, under contract, operational activities of his employer, such others are 'agents' of the employer krithin'the
meaning of § 1 of FELA." This is held to be so even
though it has long been customary in railroading for
carriers to delegate to others activities such as the switching operation here, see Fort Worth Belt R. Co. v. United
States, 22 F. 2d 795, and notwithstanding that under
traditional common-law concepts those performing such
specialized activities would be regarded as independent
contractors.2 See, e. g., Brady v. Chicago & G. W. R. Co.,
114 F. 100, 108-112; Moleton v. Union PacificR. Co., 118
Utah 107, 114-115, 219 P. 2d 1080, 1084.
In light of the FELA and its legislative lfistory it is
difficult to regard -any of these developments as other
than the products of freewheeling. The FELA ". . . is
founded on common-law concepts of negligence and
-injury, subject to such qualifications as Congress has
R. Co., 353 U. S. 920; Deen v. Gulf, Colorado & S. F. R. Co., 353

'U. S. 925; Thomson v. Texas.& P. R. Co.,'353 U. S. 926; Ringhiserv.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co., 354 U. S. 901; McBride.v. Toledo Terminal
R. Co., 354 U. S. 517; Gibson v. Thompson, 355 U. S. 18; Stinson v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 355 U. S. 62; Honeycutt v. Wabash R.
Co., 355 U. S. 424; Ferguson v. St. Louis-San FranciscoR. Co., 356
U. S. 41; Butler v. Whiteman, 356 U. S. 271.
2 Although the Court in footnote 2 of. its opinion refers to the
jury's special finding that Belt Railway was under the "control and
supervision" of respondent, I do not understand that any reliance
is placed upon that finding here. It, seems enough to say that this
finding was without support in the evidence, as the state appellate
court held.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

imported into those terms." Urie v. Thompson, 337
U. S. 163, 182. See also dissenting opinions in Rogers v.
Missouri Pacific R. Co., supra, at 524, 538-539, 559,
563-564; and in Kernan v. American Dredging'Co.,
supra, at 441, 451-452. The only such qualifications
which Congress has yet seen fit to enact are those effected
by §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, modifying or abolishing the
common-law defenses of contributory negligence and
asslumption of risk. 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C. § 53; 35
Stat. 66, as amended, 45 U. S. C. § 54. More particularly, when a well-known legal term like "agents" is used
in legislation, it should be taken as carrying its ordinary
meaning unless the statute indicates the contrary. Cf.
Hull v. Philadelphia & R. R. Co., 252 U. S.: 475, 479.
The principle of "accommodating scope" to which the
Court resorts for justification of the expansive meaning
now given that term is, as applied here, a new rule of
statutory construction of which I have not been aware
until today.
I must dissent.

