.OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiam.

35Q U. S.

SACHER v. UNITED STATES.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA- CIRCUIT.

No. 828.

Decided May 19, 1958.

Petitioner was convicted of violating 2 U. S. C. ยง 192 by failing to
answer three questions put to him by a subcommittee of the
Internal Security Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary, and his conviction was sustained by a divided Court of
Appeals. Held: His refusal to answer related to questions not
clearly pertinent to the subject on which the two-member subcommittee conducting the hearing had been authorized to take testimony. Therefore, the conditions necessary to sustain a conviction
for deliberately refusing to answer questions pertinent to the
authorized subject matter of a congressional hearing were wanting. Certiorari is granted and the'judgment is reversed. Watkins
v. United States, 354 U. S. 178. Pp. 576-578.
102 U. S. App. D. C. 264, 252 F. 2d 828, reversed and,'remanded.

Hubert T. Delany, FrankJ. Donnerand'Telford Taylor
for petitioner.
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General
Tompkins, Philip R. Monahan and Doris H. Spangenburg
for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for writ of certiorari to the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is
granted. Charged in a three-count indictment for violation of R. S. ยง 102, as amended, 2 U. S. C. ยง 192, for failure

to answer three questions put to him by a subcommittee
of the Internal Security Subcommittee of the Senate Com-

mittee on the Judiciary, the petitioner, having waived

SACHER v. UNITED STATES.
576

Pr Curiam.

trial by jury, was found guilty on all cournts and sentenced
to six months' imprisonment and to pay a fine of $1,000.
After the sentence was sustained by the Court of Appeals,
99 U. S. App. D. C. 360, 240 F. 2d 46, this Court, having
granted a petition for certiorari, remanded the case, 354
U. S.930, to the Court of Appeals for reconsideration in
light of Watkins v. United States, 354 U. S. 178. On
reargument before the Court of Appeals sitting en banc,
a divided court again affirmed the conviction. 102 U. S.
App. D. C. 264, 252 F. 2d 828. ,
The broad scope of authority vested in Congress to
conduct investigations as an incident to the "legislative
Powers" granted by the Constitution is not questioned.
See Watkins v. United States, supra at 215. But when
Congress seeks to enforce its investigating authority
through the criminal process administered by the federal
judiciary, the safeguards of criminal justice become operative. The subject matter of inquiry before the subcommittee at which petitiofier appeared as a witness concerned
the recantation of -prior testimony by a witness named.
Matusow. In the course of the hearing, the questioning
of petitioner -entered upon a "brief excursion," 99 U. S..
App. D. C. 360, 367, 240 F. 2d 46, 53, into proposed
legislation barring Communists from practice at the federal bar, a subject not within the subcommittee's scope
of inquiry as authorized by its parent committpe.
Inasmuch as petitioner's refusal to answer related to
questions not clearly pertinent to the subject on which
the two-member subcommittee conducting the hearing
had been authorized to take testimony, the conditions
necessary to sustain a conviction for deliberately refusing to answer questions pertinent to the authorized
subject matter of a congressional hearing, are wanting.
Watkins v. United States, supra. The judgment of the

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
CLARK, J.,

dissenting.

356 U. S.

Court of Appeals is therefore reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss
the indictment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
concurring.
In joining the Court's opinion, I am constrained to
write these few words with reference to my Brother
CLARK's suggestion that the Court should hear argument
in this case. As the limited scope of the Subcommzttee's
authority is not in dispute, the controlling issue is whether
the pertinency of the questions put to petitioner was of
such "undisputable clarity" as to justify his punishment
in a court of law for refusing to answer them. Watkins v.
United States, 354 U. S. -178, 214. That issue can only
be determined by scrutiny of the record, and a full-dress
argument could hardly shed further light on the'matter.
In such circumstances prompt disposition of the case
before us certainly constitutes sound judicial administration. For my part, it is abundantly evident that the
pertinency of none of the three questions involved can
be regarded as undisputably clear, as indeed is evidenced
by the different interpretations of the record advanced by
the members of this Court and of the Court of Appeals
who have considered the issue.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

MR. JUSTICE CLARK, With whom MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER concurs, dissenting.
Petitioner concedes that the subject matter under
inquiry, the Matusow recantation, "was clearly defined
.by the subcommittee and [he] was specifically notified
as to what that subject was at the time he was sub-

SACHER v. UNITED STATES.
576

CLARK,

J., dissenting.

poenaed. ' ' * If any of the three questions which petitioner refused to answer is clearly pertinent to that subject, the judgment must be sustained, since a general
sentence was imposed after conviction on three counts,
one for each refusal. Claassenv. United States, 142 U. S.
140 (1891).
The third question, covered by the third count of the
indictment, was whether petitioner was or ever had been
"a member of the Lawyers' Section of the Communist
Party, U. S. A." I think it obvious that the "brief excursion" into proposed legislation barring Communist lawyers from the federal courts did not carry as far as this
question, which was vital to a matter in which the Committee properly was interested-petitioner's role in a
Communist conspiracy to procure Matusow's recantation.
The context of the question clearly relates it to the recantation rather than the proposed legislation. Just prior to
asking about membership in the Lawyers' Section of the
Party, the Committee asked three times whether petitioner had attended a birthday party for one Alexander
Bittelman. Petitioner replied that he did not remember.
The Committee already had reports that he was at the
party, which numbered 50 high Communists among its
guests, and that information was one of the reasons why
he was called before the Committee. He then was asked
if he had "any connection with the legal commission or
law commission of the Communist Party," for the Committee also had information that either he or one Nathan
Witt probably was the head of a group of important Communists constituting a lawyers' commission to formulate
legal -Irategy for the party. Upon answering that he
*The concession appears in petitioner's application for certiorari
last year, No. 884, 1956 Term, which we granted, 354 U. S. 930, in
connection with our remand in light of Watkins v. United States,
354 U. S. 178 (1957). Nothing in the present application for

certiorari controverts the concession.

58a0

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
CLARK, J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

"[did] not know of any such organization," he vas asked
the question at issue, namely, whether he was or had been
a member of the Lawyers' Section of the Party. Its relaxtionship to the Matusow recantation is confirmed by the
Committee's next question, asking whether petitioner
had attended a Communist meeting in 1947- "at the
home of Angus Cameron," . publisher 'of Matgsow's
autobiography.
When the question is viewed in context, it seems to
me that pertinenrcy is clearly established: Petitioner is
a seasoned lawyer with trial experience. Both questions
and answers -may go afield in the examination of a witness--a truism.to every trial -practitioner-but that fact
cannot license a witness' refusal to answer questions
which are relevant.
In any event the Government should be given a chance
to present oral argument on the pertinency of the question
under the third couit before petitioner is freed.' Oppor'tunity for a hearing is particularly important here because
the issue is one that confronts the Committees of the
Congress day after day. For these reasons L dissent from
the summary reversal of petitioner's conviction.,,_

