OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

356 U. S.

INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AIRCRAFT AND AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA

(UAW-CIO)

ET AL.

v. RUSSELL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 21.

Argued December 11-12, 1957.-D4ided May 26, 1958.

In 1952, respondent, a nonunion employee in ian industry affecting
interstate commerce, brought a common-law tort action in a state
court against a labor union and its agent to recover compensatory
and punitive damages for malicious interference with his lawful
occupation, alleging that, by mass picketing and threats of violence
during a strike, they prevented him from entering the plant where
he was employed and from engaging in his employment for over a
month. It is assumed that such action also constituted an unfair
labor practice under § 8 (b) (1) (A) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, for which the National Labor Relations
Board could have awarded respondent back pay under § 10 (c).
Held: The Act did not give the Board such exclusive jurisdiction
over the subject matter as to preclude the state court from
entertaining the' action and awarding compensatory and punitive
damages. Pp. 635-646.
(a) The union's activity in this case clearly was not protected
by federal law. P. 640.
(b) Congress has not deprived a victim of the kind of tortious
conduct here involved of his common-law rights of action for all
damages suffered. United Workers v. Laburnum Corp., 347 U. S.
656. Pp. 640-642.
(c) That, under § 10 (c) of the Federal Act, the Board had
limited power to award back pay to respondent does not create
such a conflict as to deprive the state courts of jurisdiction to
award common-law damages for lost pay. Pp. 642-645.
(d) To hold that the limited power of the Board under § 10 (c)
to award back pay in its discretion excludes the power of the State
to enforce the employee's common-law rights of action would, in
effect, grant to unions a substantial immunity from the consequences of mass picketing or coercion such as was employed here.
Pp. 645-646. -

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

635

Opinion of the Court.

(e) An employee's right to recover in the state -courts all
damages caused him by this kind of tortious conduct cannot
fairly be said to be pre-empted without a clearer declaration of
congressional policy than is found here. P. 646.
(f) The power to award punitive damages is within the'jurisdiction of the state courts but not within that of the Board. P. 66.
264 Ala. 456, 88 So. 2d 175, affirmed.

J. R. Goldthwaite, Jr.argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Harold A. Cranefield and
Kurt L. Hanslowe.
Norman W. Harris argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
MR. JUsTICE BuRToN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The issue before us is whether a state court, in 1952,
had jurisdiction to entertain an action by an employee,
who worked in an industry affecting interstate commerce,
against a union and its agent, for malicious iiterference
with such employee's lawful occupation. In United
Workers v. Laburnum Corp., 347 U. S. 656, 657, we held
that Congress had not "given the National Labor Relations Board such exclusive jurisdiction over the subject
matter of a common-law tort action for damages as to
preclude an appropriate state court from hearing and
determining its issues where such conduct constitutes an
unfair labor practice" under the Ldbor Management
Relations Act, 1947, or the National Labor Relations
Act, as amended.1 For the reasons hereafter stated, we
uphold the jurisdiction of the state courts in this case as
we did in the Laburnum case.
This action was instituted in the Circuit Court of
Morgan County,- Alabama, in 1952, by jPaul S. Russell,
161

Stat. 136, 29 U. S. C. § 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

the respondent, against the petitioners, International
Union, United Automobile, Aircraft and Agricultural
Implement Workers of America, CIO, an unincorporated
labor organization, here called the union, and its agent,
Volk, together with other parties not now in the case.
Russell was a maintenance electrician employed by
Calumet and Hecla Consolidated Copper Company (Wolverine Tube Division) in Decatur, Alabama, at $1.75 an
hour and earned approximately $100 a week. The union
was the bargaining agent for certain employees of that
Division but Russell was not a member of the union nor
had he applied for such membership.
The allegations of his amended complaint may be summarized as follows: The union, on behalf of the employees
it represented, called a strike to commence July 18, 1951.
To prevent Russell, and other hourly paid employees from
entering the plant during the strike, and to thus make the
strike effective, petitioners maintained a picket line from
July 18 to September 24, 1951. This line was located
along and in the public street which was the only means
of ingress and egress to the plant. The line consisted of
persons standing along the street or walking in a compact
circle across the entire traveled portion of the street.
Such pickets, on July 18, by force of numbers, threats of
bodily harm to Russell and of damage to his property,
prevented him from reaching the plant gates. At least
one striker took hold of Russell's automobile. Some of
the pickets stood or walked in front of his automobile in
such a manner as to block the street'and make it impossible for him, and others similarly situated, to enter the
plant. The amended complaint also contained a second
count to the same general effect- but alleging-that petitioners unlawfully conspired with other persons to do the
acts above described.
The amended complaint further alleged tbat petitioners
WVillfully and maliciously caused Russell to lose time from

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

637

Opinion of the Court.

his work from July 18 to August 22, 1951, and to lose the
earnings which he would have received had he and others
not been prevented from going to and from the plant.
Russell, accordingly, claimed compensatory damages for
his loss of earnings and for his mental anguish, plus punitive damages, in the total sum of $50,000.
Petitioners filed a plea to the jurisition. They'
claimed that the National Labor Relations Board had
jurisdiction of the controversy to the exclusion of the
state court. The trial court overruled Russell's demurrer
to the plea. However, the Supreme Court of Alabama
reversed the trial court and upheld the jurisdiction of that
court, even though the amended complaint charged a
violation of § 8 (b) (1) (A) of the Federal Act.2 258
Ala. 615, 64 So. 2d 384.
On remand, petitioners' plea to the jurisdiction was
again filed but this time Russell's demurrer to it was sustained. The case went to trial before a jury and resulted
in a general verdict and a judgment for Russell in the
amount of $10,000, including punitive damages. On
appeal, the Supreme Court of Alabama reaffirmed the
Circuit Court's jurisdiction. It also affirmed the judgment for Russell on the merits,, holding that Russell had

proved the tort of wronoful interference with a lawful
occupation. 264 Ala. 456, 88 So. 2d 175. Because of the
importance of the jurisdictional issue, we granted certiorari. 352 U. S. 915.
2 We assume, for the purposes of this case, that the union's conduct
did violate § 8 (b) (1) (A) which provides:
"(b) It shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor organization
or its agents"(1) to restrain or coerce (A) employees in the exercise of the
rights guaranteed in section 7: Provided, That this paragraph shall
not impair the right of a labor organization to prescribe its owa
rules with respect to the acquisition or retention of membership
therein . . . ." 61 Stat. 141, 29 U. S. C. § 158 (b) (1) (A).

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

There was much conflict in the testimony as to what
took place in connection with the picketing but those conflicts vere resolved by the jury in favor of Russell.'
Accepting a view of the evidence most favorable to him,
the jury was entitled to conclude that petitioners did, by
mass picketing and threats of violence, prevent him from

entering the plant and from engaging in his employment
3

Among the instructions given to the jury were the following
requested by petitioners:
"5. I charge you that unless you are reasonably satisfied from
the evidence in this case that the proximate cause of [respondent's]
inability to work at the Decatur plant of Calumet and Hecla Consolidated Copper Company (Wolverine Tube Division) during the
period from July 18, 1951 to August 22, 1951, was that a picket line
was conducted by the [petitioners] in a manner which by force and
- violence, or threats of force and violence prevented [respondent] from
entering the plant, and unless you are also reasonably satisfied from
the evidence that work would have been available to [respondent]
in the plant during said period, except for picketing in such manner,
you should not return a verdict for the [respondent].
"6. I charge you that unless you are reasonably satisfied from the
evidence that the acts complained of by [respondent] occurred, and
that the [respondent] suffered a loss of wages as the natural and
proximate result of said acts, you should return your verdict for the
[petitioners] "
In its main charge to the jury, the trial court included the following
statement:
"If, in this case, after considering all the evidence and under the
instructions I have given you, ybu are reasonably satisfied that at
the time complained of and in doing the acts charged, the [petitioners] . ,-. actuated by malice and actuated by ill-will, committed
the unlawful and wrongful acts alleged, you, in addition to the actual
damages, if any, may give damages for the sake of example and by
way of punishing the [petitioners] or for the purpose of making the
[petitioners] smart, not exceeding in all the amount claimed in the
complaint.
"In order to authorize the fixing of such damages, you must .be
reasonably satisfied from the evidence that there was present willfulness or wantonness and a reckless disregard of the rights of the
other person."

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

639

Opinion of the Court.

from July 18 to August 22. The jury could have found
that work would have been available within the plant
if Russell, and others desiring entry, had not been ex4
cluded by the force, or threats of, force, of the strikers.
4 On the evidence before it, the jury was entitled to find that about
400 of the employees who had attended union meetings on July 17
were in front of the plant gates at 8 o'clock the following morning.
A crowd of between 1,500 and 2,000 people, including the above 400,
was near the plant gates when the first shift was due to report for
work at 8 a. m. Between 700 and 800 automobiles were parked along
the street which led to and ended at the plant. A picket line of
25 to 30 strikers, carrying signs and walking about three feet apart,
moved in a circle extending completely across the street. Adjacent
to the street at thdt point, there was a group of about 150 people,
some of whom changed places with those in the ctrcle. On the other
side of the street, there was another group of about 50 people. Many
members of the first shift came, bringing their lunches, in expectation
of working that day as usual. Russell was one of these and he tried
to reach the plant gates. Because of the crowd, he proceeded slowly
to within 20 or 30 feet of the picket line. There he felt a drag on
his car and stopped. While thus stopped, the regional director of
the union came to him and said, "If you are salaried, you can go
on in. If you are hourly, this is as far as you can go." Russell
nevertheless edged toward the entrance until someone near the picket
line called out, "He's going to try to go through." Another yelled,
"Looks like we're going td have to turn him over to get rid of him,"
and several yelled, "Turn him over." No one actually attempted
to turn over Russell's car but the picket line effectively blocked his
further progress. He remained there for more than an hour and a
half. From time to time, he tried to ease his car forward but, when
he did so, the pickets would stop walking and turn their signs toward
his car, some of them touching the car. When he became convinced
that he could not get through the picket line without running over
somebody or getting turned over, he went home. The plant's offices
were open and-salaried employees, worked there throughout the strike.
Russell and other hourly employees necessary to operate the plant
were prevented from reaching the company gates in the manner
described. During the next five weeks he kept in touch with the
unchanged situation at the plant entrance, and set about securing
signatures to a petition of enough employees, who wished to resume
work, to operate the plant. After obtaining over 200 signatures, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

This leaves no significant issue of fact for decision here.
The principal issue of law is whether the state c6urt had
jurisdiction to entertain Russell's amended complaint or
whether that jurisdiction had been pre-emuted by Congress and vested exclusively in the National Labor
Relations Board.
At the outset, we note that the union's activity in this
case clearly was not protected by federal law. Indeed the
strike was conducted in such a manner that it could have
been enjoined by Alabama courts. Youngdahl v. Rainfair,
Inc., 355 U. S. 131; Auto Workers v. Wisconsin Board,351
U. S. 266.
In the Laburnum case, supra,the union, with intimidation and threats of violence, demanded recognition to
which it was not entitled. In that manner, the union prevented the employer from usingits regular employees and
forced it to abandon a construction contract with a consequent loss of profits. The employer filed a tort action in a
Virginia court and received a judgnent for about $30,000
petition was presented to-the company on or about August 18. On
August 20, the company advertised in a local newspaper that on
August 22 the plant would resume operations. All employees were
requested to report to work at 8 a. m. on August 22. At that time,
about 70 state highway patrol officers and 20 local police officers were
at the gates and convoyed into the plant about 230 hourly pald
employees reporting for work. ,Russell was among them and he was
imniediately put to work. Thereafter, he had no difficulty in entering
the plant.
There also was evidence that on? August 20 the company sought
to run its switch engine out of the yard to'bring in car containing
copper ingots. The engine,, however; was met by striker- .some of
whom stood in its path. One pulled out the engine's ignition key
and threw it away. Others in the crowd cut the engine's fan belts,
air hoses and spark plug wires, removed the distributor head and
disabled the brakes. The engine was then rolled back into the plant
yard by the crew without its mission having been accomplished.
There is no eVidence that Rusell was present on this occasion.

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

641

Opinion of the Court.

compensatory damages, plus $100,000 punitive damages.
On petition for certiorari, we upheld the state court's jurisdiction and affirmed its judgment. We assumed .that
the conduct of the union constituted a violation of
§ 8 (b) (1) (A), of the Federal Act. Nevertheless, we
held that the Federal Act did not expressly. or impliedly
deprive the employer of its common-law right of action
in tort for damages.
This case is similar to Laburnum in many respects. In
each, a state court awarded compensatoiy and punitive

damages agaiiist a union for conduct which was a tort and
also assumed to be an unfair labor practice. The situations are comparable except that, in the instant case, the
Board is authorized, under § 10 (c) of the Federal Act, to
award back pay to employees under certain circumstances.
We assume, for the purpose of argument, that the Board
would have had authority to award back pay to Russell.'

Petitioners assert that the possibility of partial relief distinguishes the instant .case from Laburnum. It is our
view that Congress has not made such a. distinction and

that it has not, in either case, deprived a victim of the
The Board has held that it can award back pay where a union
has wrongfully, caused a termination in the employee status, but not
in a case such as this when a union merely interferes with access to
work by one who remains at all times an employee. In re United
Furniture Workers of America, CIO, 84 N. L. R. B".563, 565. That
view was acknowledged in ProgressiveMine Workers v. Labor Board,
187 F. 2d 298, 306-307, and has been adhered to by the Board in
aubsequent cases. E. g., Local 988, 115 N. L. R. B. 1123. Petitioners
contend thai the Board's above interpretation of its own power conflicts with the rationale of Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 213
U. S. 177, and Virginia Electric Co. v. Labor Board, 319 U. S. 533.
See also, In re United Mine Workers, 92 N. L. R. B. 916, 920 (dissenting opinion); United Electricdl, Radio and Machine. Workers, 95
X. L. R. B. 391, 392, n. 3. As the 'decision of this question is not
essential in the instant case, we do not pass upon it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U.S.

kind of conduct here involved of common-law rights of
action for all damages suffered.
Section 10 (c) of the Federal Act, upon which petitioners must rely, gives limited authority to the Board to
award back pay to employees. The material provisions
are the following:
"If upon the preponderance of the testimony takef
the Board shall be of the opinion that any person
named in the complaint has engaged in or is. engaging
in any such unfair labor practice, then the Board
shall state its findir'gs of fact and shall issue and cause
to be served on such person an order requiring such
person to cease and desist from such unfair labor
practice, and to take such affirmative action including reinstatement of employees with or without back
pay, as will effectuate the policies of this Act: Provided, That where an order directs reinstatement
of an employee, back pay may be required of the
employer or labor organization, as the case may
be, responsible for the discrimination suffered by
him . . . ." 61 Stat. 147, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (c).
If an award of damages by a state court for conduct such as is involved in the present case is not otherwise prohibited by the Federal Acts, it certainly is not
prohibited by the provisions of § 10 (c). This section
is far from being an express grant of exclusive jurisdiction superseding common-law actions, by either an
employer or an employee, to recover damages caused
by the tortious conduct of a union. To make an award,
the Board must first be convinced that the award would
"effectuate the policies" of the Act. "The remedy of
back pay, it must be remembered, is entrusted to the
Board's discretion; it is not mechanically compelled by
the At." Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.
177, 198. The power to order affirmative relief under

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL- 643
634

Opinion of the Court.

§ 10 (c) is merely incidental to the primary purpose of
Congress to stop and to prevent unfair labor practices.
Congress did not establish a general scheme authorizing
the Board to award full compensatory damages for
injuries caused by wrongful conduct- United Workers
v. Laburnum Corp., 347 U. S. 656, 666-667. In Virginia
Electric Co. v. Labor Board, 319 U. S. 533 54,. in speaking of the Board's power to grant affirmative reIief, we
said:
"The instant reimbursement order [which directs
reimbursement by an employer of dues checked off for
a dominated union] is not a redress for a private
wrong. Like a back pay order, it does restore to the
employees in some measure what was taken from
them because of the Company's unfair labor practices. In this, both these types of monetary awards
somewhat resemblelcompensation for private injury,
but it must be constantly remembered that both are
remedies created by statute-the one explicitly and
the other impllicitly in the concept of effectuation of
the policies of the Act-which are designed to aid in
achieving the elimination of industrial conflict. They
vindicate public, not private, rights. Cf. Agwilines,
Inc. v. Labor Board, 87 F. 2d 146, 150-51; Phelps
Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177. For-this
reason it is erroneous to 6haracterize this reimbursement order as penal or as the adjudication of a mass
tort. It is equally wrong to fetter the Board's discretion by compelling it to observe conventional common
law or chancery principles in fashioning such an
order, or to.force it to inquire into the amount of
damages actually sustained. Whether and to what
extent such matters should be considered is a complex
problem for the Board to decide in the light of its
administrative experience and knowledge!"

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court..

356 U. S.

In Laburnum, in distinguishing Garner v. Teamsters
Union, 346 U. S. 485, we said:
"To the extent that Congress prescribed preventive
procedure against unfair labor practices, that case
recognized that the Act excluded conflicting state
procedure to the same end. To the extent, however,
that Congress has not prescribed procedure for dealing with the consequences of tortious conduct already
committed, there is no ground for concluding that
existing criminal penalties or liabilities for tortious
conduct have been eliminated. The care we took in
the Garner case to demonstrate the existing conflict
between state and federal administrativ'e remedies
in that case was, itself, a recognition that if-no conflict had existed, the state procedure would have
survived." 347 U. S., at 665.
In this case there is a possibility that both the Board
and the state courts have jurisdiction to award lost pay.
However, that possibility does not create the kind of
"conflict" of remedies referred to in Laburnum. Our cases
which hold that state jurisdiction is pre-empted are distinguishable. In them we have been concerried lest one
forum would enjoin, as illegal, conduct which the other
forum would find legal, or that the state courts would
restrict the exercise of rights guaranteed by the Federal
Acts.6
6

See, e. g., San Diego Cbuncii v. Garmon, 353 U. S. 26 (involving
state injunction of peaceful picketing); Amalgamated Meat Cutters v.
'FairlawnMeats, Inc., 353 U. S. 20, 23 (same); United Mine Workers
v. Arkansas Oak Flooring Co., 351 U. S. 62, 75 (same); Garner v.
Teamsters Union, 346 U. S. 485, 498-500 (same) ;. Weber v; AnheuserBusch, Inc., 348 U. S. 468, 475-476, 479-481 (involving state injunction of a strike and peaceful picketing); Bus Empioyees v. Wisconsin Board, 340 U. S. 383, 394-395, 398-399 ( irolving state statute
restricting right to strike of, and compelling Arbitration by, public
utility employees); Automobile Workers v. D'Brien, 339 U. S. 454,

AUTOMOBILE. WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

645

Opinion of the Court.

In the instant case, there would be no "conflict" *even
if one forum awarded back pay and the other did not.
There is nothing inconsistent in holding that an employee
may recover lost wages as damages in a tort action under
state law, and also holding that the award of such damages
is not necessary to effectuate the purposes of the Federal
Act.
In order to effectuate the policies of the Act, Congress
has allowed the Board, in its discretion, to award back
pay. Such awards may incidentally provide some compensatory relief to victims of unfair labor practices. This
does not mean that Congress necessarily intended this
discretionary relief to constitute an exclusive pattern of
money damages for private injuries. Nor do we think
that the Alabama tort remedy, as applied in this case,
altered rights and duties affirmatively established by
Congress.
To the extent that a back-pay award may provide relief
for victims of an unfair labor practice, it is a partial alternative to a suit in the state courts for loss of earnings.
If the employee's common-law rights of action against a
union tortfeasor are to be cut off, that would in effect
grant to unions a substantial immunity from the consequences *of mass picketing or coercion such as was
employed during the strike in the present case.
The situation may be illustrated by supposing, in the
instant case, that Russell's car had been turned over resulting, in damage to the car and personal injury to him.
Under state law presumably he could have recovered for
456-459 (involving state statute restricting right to strike by requiring, as a condition precedent, a strike vote resulting in an affirmative majority); La Crosse Telephone Corp. v. Wisconsin Board,
336 U. S: 18, 24-26 (involving state certification of he appropriate
unit for collective bargaining); Bethlehem.Steel Co. v. New York
Board, 330 U. S. 767, 773-776 (same); Hill v. Floridaex rel. Watson,
325 U. S. 538, 541-543 (involving, state statute restricting eligibility.

to be f labor representative).

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

medical expenses, pain and suffering and property damages. Such items of recovery are beyond the scope of
present Board remedial orders. Followiig the rrasoning
adopted by us in the Laburnum case, we believe that
state jurisdiction to award damages for these items is not
pre-empted. Cf. International Assn. of Machinists v.
Gonzales, ante, p. 617, decided this day. Nor can we see
any difference, significant for present purposes, between
tort damages to recover medical expenses and tort damages to recover lost wages. We conclude -that an em,ployee's right to recover, in the state courts, all damages
caused him by this kind of tortious conduct cannot fairly
be said to be pre-empted without a clearer declaration of
congressional. policy than we find here. Of course, Russell could not collect duplicate compensation for lost pay
from the state courts and the Board.
Punitive damages constitute a well-settled form of relief under the law of Alabama when there is a willful and
malicious wrong. Penney v. Warren, 217 Ala. 120, 115 So.
.16. To the extent that such relief is penal in its nature,
it is all the more clearly not granted to the Board by the
Federal Acts. 14epublic Steel Corp. v. Labor Board, 311
U. S. 7, 10-12. The power to impose punitive ganctions is
within the jurisdiction of the state courts but aot within
that of the Board. In Laburnum we approved a judgment that included -$100,000 in punitive damages. For
the exercise of the police power of a State over such a case
as this, see also, Youngdahl v. Rainfair, Inc., 355 U. S.
131; Auto Workers v. Wisconsin Board, .351 U; S. 266;
274, n. 12.
. Accordingly, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Alabama is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took-no part -in the consideration
or decision of this case.

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

647

WARMN, C. J., dissenting.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS joins, dissenting.
The issue in this case is whether the Taft-Hartley Act
has pre-empted a State's power to assess compensatory
and punitive damages against a union for denying a
worker access to a plant during an economic strike-conduct that the Federal Act subjects to correction as an
unfair labor practice under § 8 (b) (1) (A). If Congress
had specifically provided that the States were without
power to award damages under such circumstances, or if
it had expressly sanctioned such redress in the state
courts, our course of action would be clear. Because Congress did not in specific words make its will manifest,
InternationalUnion v. Wisconsin Employment Relations
Board, 336 U. S. 245, 252, we must be guided by what is
consistent with the scheme of regulation that Congress
has established.
It is clear from the legislative history of the TaftHartley Act that in subjecting certain conduct to regulation as an unfair labor practice Congress had no intention
of impairing a State's traditional powers to punish or in
some instances prevent that same conduct when it was
offensive to what a leading case termed "such traditionally local matters as public safety and order and the use
of streets and highways." Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740, 749. Both proponents and
critics of the measure conceded that certain unfair labor
practices would include acts "constituting violation of the
law of the State," 1 "illegal under State law," - "punishable under State and local police law," I or acts of such
nature that "the main remedy for such conditions is
prosecution under State law and better local law enforce193

Cong. Rec. 4024.

2 S. Rep. No. 105 on S. 1126, Supp. Views, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 50.

3 93 Cong. Rec. 4019.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WARREN,

C. J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

ment." 4 It was this role ofstate law that the lawmakers
referred to when they bonceded that there would be "two
remedies" I for a violent unfair labor practice. \For
example, when Senator Taft was explaining to the Senate
the import of the § 8 (b) (1) (A) unfair labor practice, he
responded in this manner to a suggestion that it would
"result in duplication of some of the State laws":
"I may say further that one of the arguments has
suggested that in case this provision covered violence
it duplicated State law. I wish to point out that
the provisions agreed to by, the Committee .covering
unfair labor practices on the part of labor unions also
might duplicate to some extent that State- law.
Secondary boycotts, jurisdictional strikes, and so
forth, may involve some iiolation of State law
respecting violence which may be criminal, and so
to some extent the measure may be duplicating the
remedy existing under Stats .law.. But that, in my
opinion, is no valid argument."' (Emphasis added.)
This frequent reference to a State's continuing power to
prescribe criminal punishments for conduct defined as an
unfair labor practice by the Federal Act is in sharp contrast to the absence of any reference to a State's power to
award damages for that conduct.
In the absence of a reliable indication of congressional
intent, the Court should be guided by principles that lead
to a result consistent with the legislative will. It is clear
that the States may not take action that fetters the exercise of rights protected by the Federal Act, Hilly. Florida,
325 U. S. 538, or constitutes a counterpart to its regulatory scheme, International Union of United Automobile
'93 Cong. Rec. 4432.
B."g 93 Cong. Rec. 4024.
93 Cbng. Rec. 4437.

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

WARREN, C. J.,

649

di~senting.

Workers v. O'Brien,.339 U. S.454, or duplicates its remedies, Garner v. Teamsters Union, 346 U. S. 485. The
Court must determine whether the state law "stands asan obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the
full purposes and objectives of Congress." Hines v.
Davidowitz, 312 U. S.52, 67. If the state action would
frustrate the policies expressed or implied in the Federal Act, then it must fall. The state action here-a
judgment requiring a certified bargaining representative
to pay punitive and compensatory damages to a nojnstriker who- lost wages when striking union members
denied him access to the plant-must be tested against
that standard.
Petitioners do not deny the State's power to award
damages against individuals or against a union for physical injuries inflicted in the course of conduct regulated
under the Federal Act. 7 The majority's illustration
involving facts of that sort is therefore beside the point.
But the power to award damages for personal injuries
does not necessarily imply a like power for other forms
of monetary loss. The unprovoked infliction of personal
injuries during a period of labor unrest is neither to be
expected nor to be justified, but economic loss inevitably
attends work stoppages. Furthermore, damages for personal i'juries may be assessed without fegard to the
merits of the labor controversy, but in order to determine
the cause and fix the responsibility for economic loss a
court must consider the whole background and status of
the dispute. As a consequence, precedents or examples
involving personal injuries are inapposite when the problem is whether a state court may award damages for
7 See Hall v. Walters, 226 S. C.430, 85 S. E. 2d 729, cert. denied,
349 U. S. 953; McDaniel v. Textile Workers, 36 Tenn.. App. 236,
254 S. W. 2d 1.

488778 0-58---45

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WARREN,

C.J., dissenting.-

356 U. S.

economic loss sustained from conduct regulated by the
Federal Act.
The majority assumes for the purpose of argument
that the Board had authority- to compensate for the
loss of wages involved here. If so, then the remedy the
state court has afforded duplicates the remedy provided
in the Federal Act and is subject to the objections voiced
in my dissent in InternationalAssociation of Machinists
v. Gonzales, ante, p. 617, decided this day. But I find it
unnecessary to rely upon any particular construction of
the Board's remedial authority under § 10 (c) of the Act.
In my view, this is a case in which the State is without
power to assess damages whether or not like relief. is
available under the Federal Act. Even if we assume that
the Board had no authority to award respondent back
pay in the circumstances of this case, the existence of
such a gap in the remedial scheme of federal legislation
is no license for the States to fashion correctives. Guss v.
Utah Labor Relations Board, 353 U. S. 1. The Federal
Act represents an attempt to balance the competing
interests of employee, union and management. By providing additional remedies the States may upset that
balance as effectively as by frustrating or duplicating
existing ones.
State-court damage awards such as those in the instant
case should be reversed because of the impact they will
have on the purposes and objectives of the Federal Act.
The first objection isthe want of uniformity this introduces into labor regulation: - Unquestionably the Federal
Act sought to create a uniform scheme of national labor
regulation. By approving a state-court damage award
for conduct regulated by the Taft-Hartley Act, the
majority assures that the consequences of violating the
Federal Act will vary from State to State with the aveilability and constituent elements of a given right of action

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

651

WAmN, C. J., dissenting.

and the procedures and rules of evidence essential to its
vindication. The matter of punitive damages is. an
example, though by no means the only one. Several
States have outlawed or severely restricted such recoveries.8 Those States where the recovery ii still available
entertain wide differences of opinion on the end sought
to be served by the exaction and the conditions and terms
on which it is to be imposed.'
The multitude of tribunals that take part in imposing damages also has an unfavorable effect upon the
uniformity the Act sought to achieve. Especially is
this so when the plaintiff is seeking punitive or other
damages for which the measure of recovery is vague or
nonexistent. Differing attitudes toward labor organizations will inevitably be given expression in verdicts
returned by jurors in various localities. The provincialism this will engender in labor regulation is in direct
opposition to the care Congress took in providing a single
body of nationwide jurisdiction to administer its code
of labor regulation. Because of these inescapable differences in the Content and application of the various state
laws, the majority's decision assures that the consequences
of engaging in an unfair labor practice will vary from
State to State. That is inconsistent with a basic purpose
of the Federal Act.
8 Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nebraska, and Washington allow no

such recovery. Indiana forbids it when the conduct is also punishable
criminally. Connecticut limits the recovery to the expenses of
litigation. McCormick, Damages, § 78. Note, 70 Harv. L. Rev. 517.
9 Some States regard the damages as extra compensation for injured
feelings. In most jurisdictions the recovery is calculated to punish
and deter rather than compensate, though some States permit the
jury to consider the plaintiff's costs of litigation. In most state courts
a principal must answer if the wrongful conduct was within the
general scope of the agent's authority. Thi. list of differences is not
exhaustive. McCormick, §§ 78-85. Note, 70 Harv. L. Rev. 517.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WwmuN, C. J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

The scant attention the majority pays to the large
proportion of punitive damages in plaintiff's judgment1 0
cannot disguise the serious problem posed by that recovery."1 The element of deterrence inherent in the imposition or availability of punitive damages for conduct that is
an unfair labor practice ordinarily makes such a recovery
repugnant to the Federal Act. The prospect of such
liability on the part of a union for the action of its members in the course of concerted activities will inevitably
influence the conduct of labor disputes. There is a very
real prospect of staggering punitive damages accumulated
through successive actions by parties injured by members
who have succumbed to the emotion that frequently
accompanies concerted activities during labor unrest.
This threat could render even those activities protected
by the Federal Act too risky to undertake. Must we
assume that the employer who resorts to a lockout is also
subject to a succession of punitive recoveries at the hands
of his employees? By its deterrent effect the imposition
or availability of punitive damages serves a regulatory
purpose paralleling that of the Federal Act. It is precisely such an influence on the sensitive area of labor
0 Plaintiff's
11

wages were approximately $100 per week and he was
out of work five'weeks. Therefore, about $9,500 of his $10,000 verdict
represents punitive damages ana damages for "mental pain and
anguish."
1 Republic Steel Corp. v. N. L, R. B., 311 U. S. 7, is not authority
for the majority's holding on punitive damages. That case held
that the Board overstepped the remedial authority conferred by
§ 10 (c) of the Wagner Act when it required an employer to reim-,
burse the Work Projeet Administration for wages paid- wrongfully
discharged employees subsequently employed on WPA projects. The
Court said this payment was in the nature of a penalty and concluded
that the Act conferred no authority on the Board to exact such a
nenalty. There was Ino question of pre-emption and no discussion.
directed at whether an award of punitive damages by a State would
be consistent with the Federal Act.

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

WARREN,

653

C. J., dissenting.

relations that the pre-emption doctrines are designed to
avoid.
There are other vices in the punitive recovery. A principal purpose of the Wagner and Taft-Hartley Acts is to
promote industrial peace. 2 Consistent with that aim
Congress created tribunals, procedures and remedies
calculated to bring labor disputes to a speedy conclusion.
Because the availability. of a state damage action discourages resort to the curative featues of the pertinent
federal labor law, it conflicts with the aims of that legislation. In a case such as the present one, for example,
the plaintiff is unlikely to seek a cease-and-desist order,
which would quickly terminate the § 8 (b) (1) (A) unfair
labor practice, if he is assured compensatory damages and
has the prospect of a lucrative punitive recovery as well.
In Alabama, as in many other jurisdictions, the theory
of punitive damages is at variance with the curative
aims of the Federal Act. The jury in this case was
instructed that if it found that the defendant was "actuated by ill-will" it might award "'smart money" (punitive damages) "for the purpose of making the defendant
smart . .
iS The parties to labor controversies have
enough devices for making one another "smart" without
this Court putting its stamp of approval upon another.
I can conceive of nothing -more disruptive of congenial
labor relations than arming employee, union and management with the potential f6r "smartiig" one'another
with exemplary damages. Even without the punitive
element, a damage action has an unfavorable effect on
the climate" of labor relations. Each new step in the proceedings rekindles the animosity. Until final judgment
the action is a constant source of friction between the
parties. In the present case, for example, it has been
1229 U. S. C. §§j41, 151.
1- R. 632.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
'WARREn, C. J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

nearly six years since the complaint was filed. The
numerous other actions awaiting outcome of this case
portend more years of bitterness before the courts.can
conclude what a Board cease-and-desist order might have
settled in a week. As the dissent warned in United
Constr. Workers v. Laburnum Constr. Corp., 347 U. S.
656, 671, a state-court damage action for conduct that
constitutes an unfair labor practice "drags on and on in
the courts, keeping old wounds open, and robbing the
administrative remedy of the healing effects it was
intended to have."
The majority places its principal reliance upon United
Constr. Workers v. Laburnum Constr. Corp., supra. I
joined in that decision, but my understanding of the
case differs from that of the majority here. That case
was .an action by an employer against a stranger union
for damages for interference with contractual relations.
While engaged in construction work on' certain mining
properties the plaintiff employer had used AFL laborers
pursuant to its collective bargaining contract. A field
representative of the United Construction Workers, an
affiliate of the United Mine Workers, informed plaintiff's
foreman that he was working in "Mine Workers territory," and demanded that his union be recognized as the
sole bargaining agent for th3 employees. Otherwise, he
threatened, the United Construction Workers would
"close down" all of the work. At the time of this
ultimatum not a single worker in Laburnum's employ
belonged to the stranger union. Plaintiff refused. A few
days later the union representative appeared at the job
site with a "rough, boisterous crowd" variously estimated from 40 to 150 men. Some were drunk. Some
carried guns and knives. Plaintiff's employees were
informed that they would have to join the United ConstructioiA Workers or "we will kick you out of here." A
few workers yielded to the mob. Those who refused were

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.- 65
634

WARRN, C. J., dissenting.

subjected to a course of threats and inthaidation until
they were afraid to proceed with their work. As a consequence, the employer was compelled to disbontiiiue his
work on the contract and it was lost. The employer sued
the United Construction Workers for the profits lost by
this interference, recovering compensatory and punitive
damages. 1' This Court affirmed.
There are at least three crucial differences between this
case and Laburnum. First, in this case the plaintiff is
seeking damages for an interference with his right to work
during a strike. Since the right to rfrain from concerted
activities is protected by § 7 of the Act, a § 8 (b) (1) (A)
unfair labor practice is inherent in the wrong of which
plaintiff complains, and the Federal Act offers machinery
to correct it. The § 8 (b) (1) (A) unfair labor practice in
Laburnum, on the other hand, was involved only fortuitously. Damages were awarded for interference with the
contractual relationship between the employer and the
parties for whom the construction work was being performed. The means defendants chose to effect that interference happened to constitute an unfair labor practice,
but the same tort might have been committed by a variety
of means in no way. offensive to the Federal Act. Laburnum simply holds that a tortfeasor should not be allowed
to immunize himself from liability for a wrong having no
relation to federal law simply because the means he adopts
to effect the wrong transgress a comprehensive code of
federal regulation. The availability of state-court damage relief may discourage the employer from invoking the
remedies of the Federal Act on behalf of his employees. 5
4 194 Va. 872, 75 S. E. 2d 694.
15 It is clear that the employer in Laburnum could have invoked
the investigative and preventive machinery of the Board. An
unfair labor practice charge may be filed by "any person." 29 CFR,
1955 Cum. Supp., § 102.9. Local Union No. 25 v. New York; New
Haven & H. R. Co., 350 U. S. 155, 160.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WARREN,

C. J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

But that effect may be tolerated since the employer's
interest is at most derivative, and there will be nothing
to dissuade the employees, who are more directly concerned, from using the federal machinery to correct the
interference with their protected activity.
Second, the defendant in this case is the certified bargaining agent of employees at the plant where plaintiff
is employed, and the wrong involved was committed in
the course of picketing incident to an economic strike
to enforce wage demands. Thus, the controversy grows
out of what might be called an ordinary labor dispute.
Continued relations may be expected between the parties
to this litigation. The defendant in Laburnum, on the
other hand, was a total stranger to the employer's collective bargaining contract, and could claim the membership
of not a single worker. There was no prospect of a contiruing relationship between the -parties to the suit, and
no need for concern over the climate of labor relations that
an action might impair. The defendant was attempting
to coerce Laburnum's employees, either by direct threats
or employer pressures, to join its ranks. Such predatory
forays are disfavored when undertaken by peaceful picketing, and even more so when unions engage in the crude
violence used in Laburnum.
Finally, the effect of punitive damages in cases such as
the present one is entirely different from that which results from the recovery sanctioned in Laburnum. Since
. the wrong in Laburnum was -committed against ap
employer, the damages exacted there were probably the
extent of the defendant's liability for that particular
conduct. Where it is employees who have been wronged,
however, there may be dozens of, actions for the same
conduct, each with its own demand for punitive damages.
In the instant case, for example, Russell is only one
of thirky employees who have filed suits against the
union for the same conduct, all of them claiming sub-

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

657

WARREN, C. J., dissenting.

stantial punitive damages." Whatever the law in other
States, Alabama seems to hold to the view that evidence
of a previous punitive recovery is inadniissible as a def em e
in a subsequent action claiming punitive damages for tl e
6 Petitioner has supplied the Court with the following list of tho 3e
cases. All are held in abeyance pending decision of the instant case.
Unless otherwise noted each action is in the Circuit Court of Morgm
County, Alabama. The amount shown is the total damages asked,
which is composed of a relatively insubstantial loss-of-wages claim
and a balance of puniti.e -damages. Petitioners' Appendices, pp.
7a-9a.
1. Burl McL.emore v. United Automobile, Aircraft and Agricultural
Implement Workers of America, AFL-CIO, et al.,
#6150, $50,000.
Verdict and judgment of $8,000. New trial granted because of improper argument of pitintiff's counsel- -264 Ala. 538, 88 So. 2d 170.
2. James W. Thompson v. Same, #65-1,.850,000. Appeal from
$10,000 verdict and judgment pending in Supreme Court of Alabama.
3. N. A. Palmer v. Same, #6152, $50,000. Appeal from $18,450
verdict and judgment pending in Supreme Court of Alabama.
4. Lloyd R. McAbee v. Same, #6153, $50,000.
5. Tommie F. Breeding v. Same, #6154 $50,000.
6. David G. Puckett v. Same, #6155, $50,000.
7. Comer P. Junkins v. Same, #6156, $50,000.
8. Joseph E. Richardson v. Same, #6157, $50,000.
9. Cois E. Woodard v. Same, #6158, $50,000.
10. Millard E. Green v. Same, #6159, $50,000.
11. James C. Hughes v. Same, #6160, $50,000.
12. James C. Dillehay v. Same, #6161, $50,000.'
13. James T. Kirby v. Same, #6162, $50,000.
14. Clbyce Frost v. Same, #6163, $50,000.
15. E.L. Thompson, Jr.v. Same, #6164, $50,000.
16. J. A. Glasscock, Jr. v. Same, #6165, $50,000.
17. Tloyt T. Pann v. Same, #6166, $50,000.
18. Speticer Weinman v. Same, #6167, $50,000.
19. Joseph J. Hightower v. Same, #6168, $50,000.
20. A. A. Kilpatrick v. Same, #6169, $50,000.
21. Charles B. Kirk v. Same, #6170, $50,000.
22. Richard W. Penn v. Same, #6171, 850,000.
93. Robert C. Russell -, Same, #6172, $50,000.
[Footnote 16 continued on page 658]

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WARREN, C. J.,

dissenting.

351; U. S.

same conduct. 17 Thus, the defendant union may be held
for a- whole series of punitive as well as compensatory
recoveries. The damages claimed in the pending actions.
total $1,500,000, and to the prospect of liability for a
fraction of that amount 'may be added the certainty of
large legq.i expenses entailed in defending the suits. By
reason of vicarious liability for its members' ill-advised
conduct on the picket lines, the union is to be subjected to
a series of judgments that may and probably will reduce
it to bankruptcy, or at the very least deprive it of the
means necessary to perform its role as bargaining agent
of the employees it represents. To approve that risk is
to exact a result Laburnum does not require.
24. T. H. Abercrombie v. Same, #6173, $50,000.
25. James H. Tanner v. Same, #6174, $50,000.
26. Charles E. Carroll v. Same, #6175, $50,000.
27. Ordell T. Garvey v. Same, #6176, $50,000.
28. A. R. Barranv. Same, #6177, $50,000.
29. Russell L. Woodard v. Same, #6178, $50,000.
V7Alabaina Pi-wer Co. v. Goodwin, 210 Ala. 657, 99 So.158. That
was an action by a passenger against a streetcar donpany for injuries
sustained in a collision. As a defense t6 a count for punitive damages,
the defendant sought to show that punitive damages had already been
awarded against it in another suit-growing out of the same collision.
The court held that the evidence was properly excluded, for "in its
civil aspects the single act- or omission forms as many distinct and
unrelated wrongs as there are -individuals injured by it." 210 Ala.,
at 658-659, 99 So., at 160. While conceding the logical relevancy
of a previous recovery, the court felt that the rule of exclusion was
the better rule since it would prevent the introduction of such collateral issues as whether and to what extent punitive damages had
been included in a previous verdict. This rule of exclusion was
applied in Southern R. Co. v. Sherrill, 232 Ala. 184, 167 So. 731.
Cf. McCormick, Damages,. § 82, and 2 Sutherland, Damages (4th ed.
1916), § 402, discussing the majority rule that evidence of prior
criminal punishment is inadmissible in an action for punitive damages
for the same misfeasance.

AUTOMOBILE WORKERS v. RUSSELL.
634

WAmEN,

659

C. J., dissenting.

From the foregoing I conclude that the Laburnum case,
to which the majority attributes such extravagant proportions, is not controlling here. In my judgment, the
effect of allowing the state courts to award compensation
and fix penalties for this and similar conduct will upset
the pattern of rights and remedies established by Congress and will frustrate the very policies the Federal Act
seeks to implement. The prospect of that result impels
me to dissent.

