OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

on the subject of- our appellate jurisdiction, without changing
the phraseology which had received judicial construction.
The court should not now unsettle a rule so long established
and recognized.

.Motion granted.

EANEES v. AN.DREWS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
THE DISTRIC

IRTED STATES FOR

OF CONNE TICUT.

Argued January 6, 7, 1887.--Decded May 23,1887.

The reissued letters-patent, No. 4372, issued to Nelson W. Green, May 9,
1871, for an improved method of constructing artesian wells, are for the
process of drawing water from the earth by means of a well driven in
the manner described in the patent, and are for the same invention
described and claimed in the original letters-patent issued to Green,
January 14, 1868. It is a reasonable inference from the language employed in the original description that the tube, in the'act of being driven
into the earth to and into a water-beariug stratum, would fbrm an airtight connection with the surrounding earth, and that the pump should
be attached to it by an air-tight connection. The changes made in the
amended specification did not enlarge the scope of the patent, or describe a different invention; but only supplied a deficiency in the original
description, by describing with more particularity and exactness the
means to be employed to produce the desired result. The omission in
the second claim of the words, "where no rock is to be penetrated,"
which are found in the first claim, did not change the obvious meaning
of the original claim.
The reissued letters-patent, No. 4372, to Nelson W. Green, were not for the
same subject as the letters-patent issued to James Suggett, March 29,
1864; or those issued to John Goode in England in 1823; nor was the in-.
vention patented in them anticipated in any publication referred to in the
opinion of the court within the rule as to previous publications laid down
In Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Cohn v. United States Corset Co.,
93 U. S. 366; and Downton v. Yeager Milling Co., 108 U. S. 466.
The evidence shows a clear case of infringement on the part of the defendant in error.

B=Ln in equity to restrain an infringement of letters-patent
for a driven well. Decree for a perpetual injunction, from

which respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

.fr. C. R. Ingersofl for appellant.
-Mr. A. Q. Xeasbey for appellees. Mrf.
brief for same.
Mm. JUSTICE

J C. C/ayto

filed a

N rrnIEws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Connecticut upon a bill
in equity filed by the appellees to restrain the alleged infringement of reissued letters-patent No.. 4372, issued to Nelson W.
Green, on Xay 9, 1871, for an improved method of constructing artesian wells. The original letters-patent, No. V,425,
were issued to the patentee January 14, 1868. The defences
relied on were that the defendants did not infringe; that the
patent was void for want of novelty in the invention; and
that the reissued patent was void because it was not for the
same invention as that described and"claimed in the original
patent. The controversy relates to what is commonly kn6wn
as the "driven well patent."
As one of the defences is, that the reissued patent is void,
as covering more than was described and claimed in the original patent, it becomes necessary to compare the two, and for
that purpose they are here printed in parallel columns, the
drawings being the same in both:

S~pecieflation~formning part of SIpec)eation forminq part of
Letters-Paent -No. 73,425,
Lefters-Patent .No. 73,425,
dated Jn*ary 14, 1868.
dated January 14, 1868;
R eissue .o.
4372, dated
MATay 9, 1871.
ORIGIMAL.

REISSUE.

Be it known that I, Nelson
W.'Green, of Cortland, in the
county of Cortland, afid state
of New York, have invented
a new and useful improvement
in the manner of sinking and
constructing artesian or drivehi

Be it known that I, Nelson
W. Green, of Amherst, in the
county of Hampshire, and
state of Massachusetts, have
invented a new and improved
method of constructing artesian wells; and I do hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

wells -where no rock is to declare that the following is a
be penetrated, and of raising full, clear and exact descrip.

U1
-M

water therefrom; and I. do
hereby declare the following
to be a krll, clear, and exact
d6scription of the same, refer-

tion of the same, reference
being had to the accompanying drawhigs, forming-part of
this specification.

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

Ify invention is particularly
ence being had to the accompanying drawings,. making a intended for the construction
part of this specification, in of artesian wells in places
where no rock is to'be peneWhich trated.
The me-hods of constructFig. 1 represents a portion
of the rod which is driven or ing wells previous to this inforced into the ground to form vention were what have been
the opening or hole for the in- known as "sinking" and "bosertion of the tube that forms ring," in both of which the hole
the casing or lining of the well or opening constituting the
and the avenue through which well was produced by taking
the water is raised to or above away a portion of the earth
the surface of the ground, and or rock through which it was
Fig, 2 represents a portion of made.
the tube.
This invention consists in
Mfy inyention consists in
the well by driving
iron
or
producing
or
forcing
an
driving
a wooden rod with a steel or or forcing down an instrument
iron point into the earth until into the ground until it reaches
it is projected to or into the the water, the hole or opening
water, and then withdrawing being thus made by a mere disthe said rod and inserting in its placement of the earth, which'
place a tube of metal or wood is packed around the instruto the same depth, through ment and not removed upward
which and. from which the from the hole, as it is in
water may be drawn by any boring.
of the usual well-known forms
of pumps.
The instrument to be employed in producing such a
well, which, to distinguish it
from "sunk " or " bored" wells,
may be termed a "driven"
well, may be any that is capable of sustaining the blows' or
pressure ffecessary to drive it
I prefer to
into the cart'

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

employ a pointed rod, which,
after having been driven or
forced down until it reaches
the water, I withdraw and
replace by a tube made airtight throughout its length,
except at or near its lower.
end, where I make openings
or perforations for the admission 6f water, afid through
and from which the water
may be drawn by any wellknown or suitable form of
pump.
In certain soils the use of a
rod preparatory to the insertion of a tube is unnecessary,
as the tube itself, through
which the water is to be
drawn, may be the instrument which produces the *ell
by the act of driving it into
the ground to the requisite
depth.
To enable others to make
and use my' invention, I will
proceed to describe it with
reference to the drawings, in

To enable others skilled in
the art to make and use my
invention, I will proceed to
describe the same with referwhich ence to the drawings.

.Figure 1 represents a por-

tion of the pointed rod above
mentioned, and Fig. 2 a portion of the tube which forms
the casing or lining of the
well.
The driving-rod A I conThe driving-rod A T construct of wood or iron, or struct of wood or iron or
other- metal, or of parts of other metal, or of parts of

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

each, with a sharp point, b, of each, with a sharp point, 6,
steel, or otherwise3 to pene- of steel or otherwise, to penetrate the earth, and a slight trate the earth, and a slight
swell, a, a short distance above swell, a, a short distance above
the point, to make the h6le the point, to make the hole
slightly larger than the gen- slightly larger than the general diameter of the rod. This eral diameter of the rod. This
rod I drive, by a falling weight rod I drive, by a falling weight
or other power, into the earth- oi other power, into the earth
until its point passes suffi- until its point passes sufficiently far into the water to ciently far into the water to
procure the desired supply. procure the desired supply. I
i then withdraw the rod and then withdraw the rod and
insert in its place the iron or insert in its place the air-tight
wooden tube B, which may iron or wooden tube B, which
be slightly contracted at its may be slightly contracted at
lower end to insure its easy its lower end to insure its easy
passage to its. place. In gen- passage to its place. In general, this tube B I make of eral, this -tube B I make of
iron, and of a thickness that iron, and of a thickness that
will bear a force applied at its will bear a force applied at its
upper extremity sufficient to upper extremity sufficient to
drive or force it to its place; drive or force it to its place;
and where a large or continu- and where a large or continuous flow of water is desired, ous flow of water is desired I
I perforate this lower end of perforate this tube near its
the tube to admit the water lower end to admit the water
more freely to the inside.
more freely to the inside.
The perforations c may be
The perforations c may be
about one-half of an inch in about one-half of an inch in
diameter, less or more, and diameter, less or more, and
from" one to one and a half from one to one and a half
inches apart; and the perfo- inches apart, and the perfora.
rations may extend, from the tions may extend, from the
bottom of the tube upward,. bottom of the tube upward,
from one to two feet. The from one to two feet. The 'didiameter of the tube should ameter of the tube should be
be somewhat smaller than the somewhat smaller than the

OCTOBER TERM, i88..
Opinion of the Court.

diameter of the swell a on the
drill end of the driving-rod A.
In localities where the water
is near the surface of the
ground, and the well is for
temporary use only, as in the
case of a moving army, or for
temporary camps, lighter and
thinner material than iron
may be used for making the
tubes- as, for instance, zinc,
tin, copper, or sheet metal of
other kind, or even wood, may
be used. The rod may be of
any suitable and practical size
that can be readily driven or
forced into the ground, and
may be from one to three
inches in diameter.

diameter of the swell a on the
drill end of the driving-rod A.
In localities where the water
is near the surface of the
ground,-and the well is for
temporary use only, as in the
case of a moving army or for
temporary camps, lighter and
thinner materials than iron
may be used for making the
tubes-as, for instance, zinc,
tin, copper, or sheet metal of
other kind, or even wood, may
be used.
* The rod may be of any suitable and practical size that
can be readily driven or forced
into the ground, and may be
from one to three inches in
diameter.
In som cases the water will
Any suitable well-known
pump may be applied to raise flow out from the -top of the
the water up through the tube tube without the aid of a
pump. In other cases the aid
to-the-surface or above it.
of a pump to draw the water
from the well may be necessary. In the latter cases I attach to the tube, by an airtight connection, any known
form of pump.
1 am aware of James Suggett's patent of March 29,
1864, -and I disclaim all secured to him therein.
What I claim as my invenHaving thus fully described
my invention, -what I claim tion, and desire to secure by
and desire to secure by letters- letters-patent, ispatent is-

EAM.ES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

The herein-described process
of sinking wells where no rock
is to be. penetrated, viz.: by
driving or forcing down a rod
to and into the water under
ground, and withdrawing it
and inserting a tube in its place
to draw the water through,
substantially as herein described.

The-process of constructing
wells by driving or forcing an
instrument into the ground
until it is projected into the
water without removing the
earth upward, as it is in boring, substantially as herein
described.

The attempts judicially to enforce the rights claimed under
this patent have met with determined resistance, and given rise
to extensive litigation, in the course of which the original and
reissued patents have been subjected to great scrutiny and
criticism. The first reported case is that of Andrews v. Carman, 13 Blatchford, 307, decided by Judge Benedict in 1876.
'That has been followed by Andrews v. Wiqgk, before Judges
Dillon and-Nelson, 13 Off. Gaz. 969; Hine v. WaUl, before
Judge Gresham; Andrews v. Cross, before Mr. Justice Blatchford, then Circuit Judge, 19 Blatchford, 291; Green v. Freneh,
before Judge Nixon, 11 Fed. Rep. 591; Andrews v. Creegan,before Judge Wheeler, 19 Blatchford, 113; Andrews v..Zong ,
before Judge McCrary, 2 MvcCrary, 577; the present pasdbe .fore Judge Shipman, 15 Fed. Rep. 109; and Andrews v. Co/ng
and Andrews v. Hovey, heard before Judges Love, Shiras, and
Nelson, 5 McCrary, 181. The case of fi ne v. Wfald was
argued in this court on appeal at October Term, 1882, the decree below being affirmed by a divided court. The patent has
been sustained against all defences made in the cases just mentioned, except in those of Andrews v. Cone and Andrews v.
Hfovey, 5 McCrary, 181, which are now pending on appeal in
this court.
The extent of this litigation attests at least the utility of
the process supposed to be described in the patent, as it shows
and measures the extent of the public demand for its use. This
is further shown by the statement of one of the complainants
in the present cause when. examined as a witness, who says

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that large numbers of wells constructed according to. the process described in the patent'are in use in the New England
States, New York,' Pennsylvania, and most of the Western
States, as well as in New Jersey, and probably in every state
in the Union; and that from estimates made by agents, welldrivers, and others having an opportunity of knowledge in the
matter, it is believed that the number of driven wells throughout the United States is somewhere between five hundred thousand and a million.
. The wells in general use prior to the date of this patent were
of two kinds: 1st, the open, common, dug well, usually walled
or boarded or otherwise lined, from which the water which collected in the well was usually lifted by means of a bucket and
windlass, or by a pump; and 2d, artesian wells, bored frequently
to a great depth by means of drills, chisels, augers, and other
such tools, whereby the opening was made into the earth to
the water supply. In both kinds the process used was to make
an excavation, removing the material through the opening.
It was usual in making. artesian bored wells' to drive down a
wooden or.iron pipe, open at both ends, having a sharp edge
around the circumference of its lower extremity, the earth
being taken out from within it. As the driving, proceeds, and
after it reiches the rock, chisels, drills, and other tools are used
to disintegrate the rook, which is taken to the surface through
the tube so driven. In the latter case, the tube is inserted.into
the hole bored for the purpose of preventing the caving in of
the sides of the opening. Through 'that tube the water is
drawn, if necessary, by a pump, or otherwise flows in consequence of pressure from the head.
The manner in which the water is obtained and supplied,
by means of these two descriptions of wells, is thus stated, as
we suppose correctly, by an expert witness in Athis case. He
says:
"Water is supplied to open dug wells only by the force of
gravity, and, when the water is pumped from them by the
ordinary suction pump, the pressure of the atmosph3re is the
same on the surface of the water in the well as it is upon
the water iu the earth surrounding it, and the result Is, that

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

the water in the well itself, being in free space, is more readily
forced by the pressure of the atmosphere into the suction pipe
of the pump than the surrounding water, which is retarded by
friction through the earth, and in consequence the continued
operation of the pump soon exhausts the water in the well,
which supply can only be replenished by the action of gravity,
the pressure of the atmosphere to retard its flow into the well
being equal to and counterbalancing the pressure exerted by the
atmosphere upon the- surface of the water in the earth, and
the operation of the pump has no effect upon the water in.the
sarrounding earth to force it into the well; hence the supply
to the open dug -well is due to and produced only by the actionof gravity.
"In the artesian well the same principles govern in regard
to the means of supply, when they are not flowing wells, but
in consequence of such wells being usually inserted down into
rock or like substance until they meet with open fissures in the
rock, through which water flows more freely and readily than
it does through ordinary compacted earth, sand, &c., which
form the water-bearing strata above the rock, a much larger
quantity of water is obtained therefrom in proportion to their
diameter than is usually obtained from the dug well, unless, as
in some cases, the dug wells are carried down into a rock
stratum and strike a similar seam in the rock. When -rtesian
wells are flowing wells, the generally received opinion is, that
their supply of water comes from a water-bearing stratum
lying beneath a stratum practically impervious to water, but
which lower stratum extends beyond anad crops out at the surface of the earth at a greater or less distance from the well
itself, (often many miles away,) and at a considerably higher
elevation than the surface- of the earth at the well."
The same witness describes the invention, which he- supposes
to be embodied in the driven well and covered by the patent
in suit, as follows:
"I understand the invention to be founded upon the discovery-by Colonel Green, that if a pipe which is air-tight throughout its length, except at its upper end and.at or near its lower
end, where are openings for the admission of water, be inserted
VOL. cxxn-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

into the. earth, down. and into a water-bearing stratum, the
pipe within the water-bearing stratum being surrounded and
in 6lose contact with the earth, and having a purbp of any ordinary construction attached by an air-tight connection to its
upper end, thus forming a well, air-tight from its upper end,
'into and below the surface of the water iin the earth, that
upon operating the pump so attached and rehoving the pressure of the atmosphere from the well, the pressure of the atmosphere through thb earth upon the surface of the water
within the earth would force the water into the body of the
well with a velocity due to the pressure of the atmosphere,
and that the supply of the water to the well directly from the
earth surrounding it would be continuous and lasting, so long
as watdr was contained in the stratum of earth with which the
lower end of the pipe was in communication, and that-,the
water contained in that stratum could be made directly tributary to the well without regard to the distance to which said
water-bearing stratum might extend. In other words, that
unlike the previously known open wells, either dug or bored,
into which the water from the surrounding earth was forced
by the action of gravity.alone, he could confrol the delivery of
water to a well by this pressure of the atmosphere, which he
discovered acted as effectually, through the earth, to force
water from the earth into a well from which the pressure of
the atmosphere had been removed, as if no earth existed above
the surface of the water.
"To utilize this, discovery he proposed a method of making
a well by simply, driving a tube down through the earth into
a water-bearing stratum, by which means he secured a close
contact of the lower end of his tube with the earth of the
water-bearing stratum."
The differences between the wells previously in common use
and the driven wells are stated by the same witness as follows:
"The distinguishing characteristics of a driven well, as it
differs from the dug well, is, that when the pressure is relieved
from the interior of the tube which itself forms the body of
the well, not only does the force of gravity act to -supply it

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

with water directly from the earth, but there being no intervening body of water between the wall of the well itself and
the ea±th surrounding it, upon which the atmosphere can act
directly and with greater effect to force it into the well (as it
can and does in the open well), the water is supplied directly
to it from the earth surrounding it in a direct inverse ratio to
its distance from the well, and the friction of the water through
the earth being directly as the square of its velocity, as the
distance from the well increases the water moves very much
slower than it does immediately next to the well itself; but
the area of the source of supply being increased exactly in the
ratio of the square. of its distance from the well, and the friction being increased exactly' as the square of the velocity (in
any given stratum), the one exactly counterbalancing the other,
it follows that, from natural laws, the surface of the water in
the earth surrounding the well is and must be maintained practically at a given level; whereas, in the open well, supplied by
gravity only, the water in the earth inclines from the natural
surface of the stratum in the earth to the bottom of the well,
the angle of that decline decreasing as the supply is taken from
the well, and, unless pumping is stopped and time allowed fdr
a resupply, the lowering of the water in the earth extends to
a continually increasing distance and a longer time is required
to obtain the original quantity in the well, while the supply
to the driven well is continuous and steady and practically
inexhaustible, the supply in a given time being proportioned
in any given soil to the size of the pipe foriming the well, having openings proportionate to its size, different wells varying
in the supply according to the nature of the soil in which they
are inserted, but remaining virtually constant at all times in
the same soil. It is not claimed, nor is it a fact, that water
can be pumped from a driven well, in any given stratum, with
greater ease than from an open well sunk into the same stratum, but the great advantages are that a much larger and
more extended supply of water is controlled, and, in consequence of the passage of the water through the earth, under
the pressure of the atmosphere, a constant filtration is secured,
thus securing both a greater supply and better water. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

where large and continuous supplies are obtained by unintermitted pumping, for days and weeks at a time, experience has
shown that the quantity of water has gradually but perceptibly improved, as in the case of the wells at Belleville, heretpfore mentioned, where an amount of water is emptied largely
exceeding the rainfall upon the entire territory not shut out
from the valley by outcropping roops upon three sides and
open to salt water upon the fourth, and no practical diminution
of the height of the water is observed.
"One peculiar characteristic of a driven well, as distinguished
from the bored artesian well, is that the driven well is for use
in soil where no rock is to be penetrated, and where the -pressure of the atmosphere is free to act upon the surface of the
water in the earth surrounding it; while the artesian well is
usually, if not always, bored into a rock stratum, and is supplied with water throhgh fissures in the rock instead of through
the earth itself surrounding the entrance or opening to the
well."
In describing the mode of constructing a driven well under
the patent, the same witness states that the pipes in generaluse, which are driven into the ground, have openings for the
admission of water into them near the lower end, usually extending up around the sides of the' pipe from fifteen inches,
sometimes, up to several feet. These holes are about threeeighths of an inch square, over which upon raised rings is placed
a screen of perforated brass, haviig openings of a size giving
from one hundred and fifty to three hundred to the square inch.
When the pump is first applied to such. a pipe, a small amount
of mud or sand is at first usually brought up, coining from a
greater or less distance from the outside of the tube, but not
leaving an open space around the perforations, as these are not
large enough to admit of but the smaller particles near the
tube. It leaves interstices between the coarser particles in it,
and through which the water flows, and which are constantly
filled with water. The swell on the point of a driven well tube,
shown in the drawing and marked a, is made larger in diameter
than the tube itself, or the coupling to the tube, for the reason,
as stated, that there is a certain elasticity in the soil, which,

EAMES "V. ANDREW.S.
Opinion of the Court.

after driving a certain sized instrument into it, causes the hole
to-contract after the point passes, and it was thus found necessary to make the point some~vhat larger than even the couplings of the pipe, for the purpose of partially relieving the pipe
and eouplings from the great friction resulting from their passage through the hole thus contracted. After reaching a waterbearing stratum of the earth, the earth at once settles around
the point and tube, even more rapidly and effectually than it
does above the water stratum, and the hole made by driving
an instrument into a water-bearing stratum and withdrawing
it will remain intact but a very short time, unless that stratum
is composed of gravel and similar substances, thus leavixig he
entrance to the pipe in close contact with the earth and effectually protecting the entrance from the admission of .air or free
water standing between the pipe and the earth surrounding it.
The effect, therefore, of this feature of the tube is more effectually to make air-tight the point or lower part of the tube.
The scientific theory stated by the expert witness on behalf
of the complainants, as an explanation of the prifnciple according to which the patented process operates in furnishing a supply of water by means of a driven well, is not contradicted or
qualified by any opposing testimony, and, so far as we can
know, is not inconsistent with accepted scientific knowledge.
The general introduction and use of driven wells since'the date
of the' patent, both in this country and abroad, strongly corroborates the silpposition that their construction and operation
is based upon the application of somo natural force not previously known or used. It appears from the evidence in this
cause, that the process of making driven wells was subjected to
experimental tests by the best authorities in England, and found
so successful that it was used to great advantage in the supply
of water to British troops in the Abyssinian expedition under
General Napier, in 1867.
In view of these premises, Judge Benedict, in Andrews v.
Cawan,13 Blatchford, 307, 311, construed the patent in suit
according to the following extracts from his opinion in that
case: "The difference between the new process under consideration and the old'is, that the pressure of the atmosphere,

OCTOBER TFRM, 1886.

Opinion of the- Court.

which, in the ordinary well, operates at the sides and bottom
of the well pit to maintain an equally distributed atmospheric
pressure upon the water, whereby the flow of water into the
well is made dependent upon the force of gravity, in the new
process is removed from within the well pit, and ceases there
to operate against the inward flow of water, so that the pressure of the atmosphere operates with its full power to force the
water in the earth from the earth into the well pit, and without any opposition caused.by meeting, in its flow, the pressure
of the atmosphere at the sides or bottom of the pit. This pro,cess involves a new idea, which was put to practical use when
the method was devised of fitting tightly in the earth, by the
act of driving without removing the earth upwards, a tube,
open at both ends, but otherwise air-tight, and extending down
to a water-bearing stratum, to which is attached a pump, a
vacuum in the well pit, and at the same time in the waterbearing stratum of the earth, being necessarily created by the
operation of a pump attached to a.pipe so driven.
"The novelty of the process under consideration does not
lie in a mechanical device for sinking the shaft or raising .the
water to the surface, but in the method whereby water, by the
use of artificial power, is made to move with increased rapidity
from the earth into the shaft, whence it results, that a tube
but a few inches in diameter, driven down tightly to a waterbearing stratum of the earth, affords an abundant supply of
water to a pump attached thereto, and constitutes a practical
and productive well. - Such an invention is without the field
of mechanical contrivance. It consists in the new application
of a power of nature, by which new application' a new and
useful result is attained. There is no new product,,but an old
product

-

water

-

is obtained from the earth in a 'newand

advantageous manner.
"In the specification we find stated more clearly the distinguishing feature of the process, wherein it differs from any
process before adopted for procuring a supply of water from
the earth; for the specification says that an instrument is to

EAMES" v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

be driven into the ground until it reaches water, having the
earth tightly packed around it. It is by means of this packing
of the earth tightly around the tube that the force developed
by the creating of the vacuum in the well pit is brought to bear
directly upon the water lying in the water-bearing stratum, to
force it into the well pit; and this driven tube fohns the rell
pit of the new invention, for, as stated, it is to be a tube made airtight throughout its length,, except at its lower end, where are
to be perforations for the admission of water, and through and
from which the water may be drawn by a pump. * The specification also mentions the vacuum, and points out where it is
to be created, for a vacuum must of necessity be formed in the
well pit and in the water-bearing -stratum,by operating a pump
attached to such a tube, so driven into the earth.
"I therefore understand this patent to be a patent for a process, and that the element of novelty in this process consists in
the diving of a tube tightly into the earth, without removing
the earth upwards, to serve as a well pit, and attaching thereto a pump, which process puts to practical use the new principle of forcing the water in the water-bearing strata of the
earth from the earth into a well pit, by the use of artificial
power applied to create a vacuum, in the manner described."
Assuming this construction of the patent to be correct, it is,
however, now contended on behalf of the appellant that the
reissue is void. because the invention described in it is not contained in the original patent.
It is to be observed that the scientific theory and principle,
the application of which is supposed to constitute the invention
of Colonel Green, are not set forth either in the original or reissued patents. This feature was commented upon by M[r.
Justice Blatchford in Andrews v. Cross, 19 Blatchford, 294,
305, as follows: "It may be that the inventor did not know
what the scientific principle was, or that, knowing it, he
omitted, from accident or.design, to set it forth. That does
not vitiate the patent. He sets forth the process or mode of
operation which ends in the result, qid the means for working
out the proems or mode of operation. The principle referred

OCTOBER TERM,

1886..

Opinion of the Court.

to is only the why and the wherefore. That is not required
to be set forth. Under § 26 of the act of July 8, 1870, 16
Stat. 201, under which this reissue was granted, the specification contains a description of.the invention and of ' the manner and process of making, constructing, compounding, and
using it,' in such terms as to enable any person skilled in the
art to which it appertains to make, construct, compound, and
ase it; and, even regarding the case as one of a machine, the
specification explains the principle of the machine, within the
meaning of that section, although the scientific or physical
principle on which the process acts wheA the pump is used
with the air-tight tube, is not explained. An inventor may be
ignorant of the scientific principle, or he may think he knows
it and yet be uncertain, or he may be confident as to what it
is, and others may think differently. All this is immaterial, if
by the specification the thing to be done is so set forth that it
can be reproduced."
The particulars relied on to establish the proposition that
the reissued patent describes a different invention from that
contained in the original'axe as follows: 1st. It -is said. that it
is essential to the success of 'the process that the end of the
tube should form an air-tight connection with the surrounding
earth; that the tube itself should be air-tight, and attached to
a pump with an air-tight connection; which elements are set
out in the reissued patent, and are not contained in the
original.
Upon this point, speaking of the original patent, Judge
Shiras, in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Iowa,
in Andrews v. Hove, 5 McCrary, at page 195, said: "fHe
describes a driving-rod, having a swell -thereon, which is to
be driven into the ground and then withdrawn, and a tube of
a diameter somewhat smaller than the diameter of the swell
of the drill-rod is to be inserted in the hole thus made. In
no part of the description is"
it said, either expressly or by fair
implication, that the tube, when inserted, must fit so closely
into the opening made by the rod that no air can pass down
on the outside of the tube to the water, nor is it stated that
the pump must be attached by an air-tight connection -to the

EAMIES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

top of the tube.. A person can follow with exactness all the
instructions therein given, and yet it would not necessarily
follow that he had excluded the air from the lining of the
well, or from the water-bearing stratum at the place where
the tube penetrated the same. In other words, the description
of the means to be employed, as set forth in these specifications, does not show that one of the results arrived at is to
render the lining of the well air-tight, and to have attached
thereto a pump by an air-tight connection. The description
of the means to be employed can be carried out in practice
without making an air-tight lining or tube, and hence without
forming a vacuum around the bottom of the tube or in it.
This being true, it follows that it cannot, from the description
of the means employed, be inferred that Colonel Green then intended to claim, as part of his discovery or invention, the
application of the principle that by creating a vacuum in and
about the tube, the same having been made. air-tight, the flow
of water would be largely increased. He did not claim it in
express words, and the description of his invention, and the
means to be used in carrying the same into practical use, fail
to show that such was the main or even a necessary part of
his invention."
To this view there are two sufficient answers.
1st. We tfink it is a reasonable inference, from the language employed in the specification of the original patent,
that the tube, in the act of being driven into the earth, to and
into a water-bearing stratum, would form an air-tight connection with the surrounding earth, and that the pump should be
attached by an air-tight connection. This inference reasonably follows from the fact, shown in the evidence, that the mere
act of driving the tube, as distinguished from boring, usually
making an air-tight connection with the surrounding
results in.
earth. The necessary effect of driving the tube is to displace
the earth laterally by compressing it; and the elasticity of the
earth is such as to cause it to cling and contract around the
tube so as to exclude the air, so that any one following the
directions in the specification of the original patent would in
fact usually so drive the tube as to -make the necessary air-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tight connection, whether he consciously intended to do so or
not. As the object of applying a pump to the'upper oriflce of
the tube was to draw the water flowing into its. lower end, it
would equally follow, as a matter of common knowledge, both
that the hube itself should be air-tight, and -thatit should be
attached to the pump with an air-tight connection, because a
vacuum in the tube is necessary to raise the water in all cases
where it - does not flow out in .consequence of the superior
height of its source, and the consequent pressure of the head.
The precise objection to the reissued specification is, that it
states that the tube which is to replace the driven rod is ".made
air-tight throughout its length," and also that in cases where
the aid of a pump to draw the water from the well may be
necessary, the patentee attaches "to the -tube by an air-tight
connection.any known form of pump;" and that the original
specification does not state that the tube is made air-tight
throughout its length, nor that the pump is to be attached to
the tube by an air-tight connection, but only states that " any
suitable well-known pump may be applied to raise the water
up through the tube to the surface or above it."
It appears, however, in evidence, that the patentee, when
applying for his reissue, with the text of the specification reading as it does now, applied to have granted to him a second
claim in these words: "I also claim, in combination with a tube
driven well, an attachment of a pump to the tube by an airtight connection substantially as herein set forth ;" that the
Patent Office rejected this second claim, assigning its reasons in
these words: " The second plause is for a pump attached to a
tubd by an air-tight connection.. This is- indispensable to the
operation of a pump, and a universal right. Whenever a supply of water is found, a pump may be applied wijout new
invention; ", that, in a subsequent communication by the Patent
Office to the patentee, the office, in speaking of this proposed
second claim, said: 1 Thii device is of universal use in artesian
well tubes and other connections, and is a necessity in the
relation of pumps to well tubes ;" and that the patentee afterwards withdrew the proposed second claim.
As the air-tight connection was indispensable to the opera-

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a pump, it was implied of necessity in the original specification, as much so as if it had been expressed, and there was
no enlargement of the invention in stating the fact in the
reissued specification.
In view of all this, it is also fairly to be implied, from the
entire language of the original specification, that the tube was
.intended to be air4ight throughout its length. As that specification states that the water is to be raised up through the
tube to the surface by the pump, and as an air-tight connection
at the junction of the pump with the tube was "indispensable
to the operation of the pump," so it was equally a necessity to
the perfect operation of the apparatus that the tube should be
air-tight throughout its length, these facts being both of them
common knowledge in the, art.
2d. But even if this were not so, the case would be simply
that of a specification defective for not containing a full and
perfect description of the process intended to be patented. It
presents the very case of the right secured to a patentee by § 53
of the act of July 8, 1870, which provides, I(that whenever any
patent is inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or
if the error has arisen by
insufficient specification....
inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention, the Comfmissioner shall, on the surrender
of such patent anil the payment of the duty required by law,
cause a new patent for the same invention, and in accordance
with the corrected specification, to be issued to the patentee,"
&c.
If the amended specification does not enlarge the scope of
the patent by extending the claim so as to cover more than
was embraced in the original, and thus cause the patent to
include an invention not within the original, the rights of the
public are not thereby narrowed, and the case is within the
remedy intended by the statute. Those cases in which this
court has held reissues to be invalid were of a different char-.
acter, and were cases where by the reissued patent the scope
of the original was so enlarged as to cover and claim as a new
invention that which was either not in the original specification,
as a part of the invention described, or, if described, was, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

not being claimed, virtually abandoned and dedicated to public
use.
Such is not the present case. Here the amended specification does not- enlarge the scope of the original invention as
described in -the original specification. It simply, in this respect, supplies a deficiency, by describing with more particularity and exactness the means to be employed to produce the
desired result. It is thus said, in the specification of the reissued patent, that "this invention consists in producing the
well by driving or forcing down an instrument into the ground,
until it -reaches the water, the hole or opening being thus
made .by a mere displacement of the earth, which is packed
around the instrument, and not removed, upward from the
hole as it is in boring;" and "I prefer to employ a pointed
rod, which, after having been driven or forced down until it
reaches the -water, I withdraw, and replace by a tube made
air-tight throughout its length, except at or near its lower end,
where I make openings or perforations for the admission of
water, and through and from which the water may be drawn
by any well-known or suitable form of pump;" and "In certain
soils the use of a rod preparatory to the insertion of a tube is
unnecessary, as the tube itself, through which the water is to
be drawn, may be the instrument which produces the well by
the act of driving it into the ground to the requisite depth;"
and "In some cases the water will flow out from the top of
the tube Without the aid of a pump. Yn other cases, the aid
of a pump to draw the water from the well may be necessary.
In the latter cases, I attach to the tube, by an air-tight connectfon, any known form of pump."
Ther&is nothing in these additions and amendments which
either was not virtually contained by reasonable implication in
the original description, or, if new, amounted to more than
.specific and exact directions to supplement those contained in
the original. The invention is not differently described, and
is not described so as to be a different invention, nor is the
claim enlarged.
In the second place, however, under this head, a material
alteration from the original, in the amended specification, is

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

said to have been made in the following respect: The original
specification starts out with a declaration -that the patentee
has "invented a new and useful improvement in the manner
of sinking and constructing artesian or driven wells, where no
rock is to be penetrated, and of raising water therefrom;" and
the claim is stated to be "the herein described process of sinking wells where no rock is to be penetrated," &c. In the
specification of the reissued patent, he says: "My invention is
particularly intended for the construction of artesian wells in
places wher6 no rock is to be penetrated;" and the claim is
for "the process of constructing wells by driving or forcing an
instrument into the ground until it is projected into the water,
without removing the earth upward, as it is in boring, substantially as herein described;" from which, it will be observed,
are omitted the words "where no rock is to be penetrated."
It is, therefore, contended, that the effect of this amendment
to the specification and claim is to enlarge the scope of the
patent, so as to cover by the reissued patent the process of constructing driven wells, whether rock is to be penetrated or not,
while the original patent was expressly limited to cases where
no rock was to be penetrated. We do not, however, so understand either the reason or the effect of these amendments. It
is perfectly evident, from the nature and description of the
invention, that a diiven well cannot be made where, through
its whole course, the formation is rock, or where the supply of
water to be utilized is found in the fissure of a rock formation.
This is so for the reason that the tube cannot be driven through
rock. Rock must be bored by drills, augurs, chisels, And other
similar instruments for perforating it and withdrawing the comminuted particles. So, where the supply of water which must
be utilized consists of a flowing stream, or a pool, found in a
rock formation, the point of the driven rod or tube cannot be
inserted by driving, as described in the patent, so as to form the
'air-tight connection necessary to the successful operation of
the principle on which the process of the patent depends.
Therefore, it follows from the amended specification and the
claim of the reissded patent, by the necessity of the caseas
expressly declared in the original, that a driven well cannot be
constructed in a rock formation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

On the other hand, it does not follow, either from the
amended or the original patent, that a driven .well, according
to the process described, may not be constructed and operated,
notwithstanding in its construction some rock has to be penetrated. There may be a layer of rock on the surface; when
this is removed or cut through, a driven well may then be constructed in the space thus uncovered from the obstruction.
So, if a stratum of rock is met in the course of driving the
rod or tube, that layer may be penetrated, not by driving the
rod or-tube through it, but by other usual means of boring and
drilling. After it is passed, the rod or tube having been
inserted in the opening made through the rock, may then be
driven in the usual manner through the remainder of its coui~e
until it reaches a water-bearing stratum of earth, as if no rock
had been met-in its passage.
The object and -purpose of the amendments to the sp&cification obviously were to meet a possible construction of the
original, whereby the patentee would be precluded from the
use of his process where it was evidently intended to be applied,
simply because one or more strata of rock had to be penetrated
in the process of driving. Such, in our opinion, is not the
meaning of the' original patent. Its true meaning is, that, so
far as it may be necessary to penetrate a rock in the course of
constructing a well, the process of driving cannot be used to
overcome the obstacle presented by the rock; but that otherwise the tube may be driven until it reaches the proper supply
of water, and then operate as a driven well. The only effect
of the amejdments contained in the new specification and
claim is to make that intention clear. So far as, in the course
of constructing a well, rock must be penetrated, the driven
well process cannot be used in the perforation of the rock, but
in every other part of its course it may be applied. Such, in
our judgment, is the legal effect of both the original and the
reissued patents.
In ourtopinion, therefore, the grounds on which it is sought
to invalidate the reissued patent, as being for a different invention from that described in the original, cannot be sustained.

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

This conclusion is not in conflict with anything said in
Russe11 v. Dodge, 93 U. S. 460, 463. Mr.- Justice Field, in
delivering the opinion of the court in that case, referring to
the provisions of the statutes -in reference to reissues, said:
"According to these provisions a reissue could only be had
where the original patent Was inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification, or
where the claim of the patentee exceeded his right; and then
only in case the error committed had arisen from the causes
stated. And as a reissue could only be granted for the same
invention embraced by the original patent, the specification
cold not be substantially changed, either by the addition .of
new matter or the omission of important particulars, so as to
enlarge the scope of the invention as originally claimed. A
defective specification could be rendered more definite and certain so "as to embrace the claim made, or the claim could be
so modified as to correspond with the specification; but, except
under special circumstances, such as occurred in the case of
.ockwood v. .orey, 8 Wall. 230, where the inventor was
induced to limit his claim by the mistake of the Comiissioner
of Patents, this was the extent to which the operation of the
original patent could be .changed by the reissue. The object
of- the law was to enable patenfees to remedy accidental mistakes, and the law was perverted when any other end was
secured by the reissue." And this is in harmony with all that
has since beon said by this court on the subject of reissued
patents.
It is further contended on the part of the appellant that the
reissued patent in suit is void for want of novelty:
1. Under this head, it is first alleged that it is anticipated
by a patent granted to James Suggett, March 29, 1864. In
the specification of the original patent of Green, of January
14, 1868, he says: "I am aware of James Suggett's patent of
March 29, 1864, and I disclaim all secured to him therein.".
The reissued patent omits that disclaimer. After the application for the reissued patent, as appears by the contents of the
fie wrapper, an interference was declared, to which the'parties
were Byron Mudge, for a reissue of his patent for a mode of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

constructing wells, and the above named patent of James-Suggett, for putting down and operating bored wells, and the
application of Colonel Green. The matter was carried by
appeal from the decision of the Commigsioner of Patents to
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. -The judgment of that court was, that Suggett was entitled to priority of
invention in regard to what was claimed by-him in his patent,
and that Colonel Green was also entitled to have a patent
issued to him according to his amended specification. The
decision of the judge of the.Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia says: "I am clearly of opinion that Green first put
into practice the conception of making a 'driven well, and is
entitled, therefore, to his patent for the broad claim of sinking
wells by driving down the pump or rod without removing the
dirt upward, and that Suggett was entitled to a patent for the
perforated pipe and point for sinking wells, and I therefore
affirm the decision of the Commissioner." Suggett's patent,
on the face of his specification, is for a "new and improved
method of putting down and operating bored wells," and all
that his claim covers is the apparatus consisting of the perforated pipe with a pointed end, constructed as a drill, and
united with a pump. The subjects of the two patents are
quite different, and do not necessarily conflict, even on the
supposition that Suggett's patent is in force, although, as testified in this case, it has been -judiciallydeclared to be invalid for
want of novelty.
2. An anticipation of the driven-well patent is also alleged
by reason of an English patent granted to Sohn Goode, AugLst
20, 1823. That patent, however, like that of Suggett's, does
not profess to be a patent for a process of raising water fr1m
the earth by means of wells of any particular construction or
mode of operation, but merely for "certain tools. of various
formation for the purpose of boring the earth, and certain apparatus for the purpose of raising water," which the patentee
says "constitute my certain improvements as aforesaid"
3. It is further contended that the driven-well patent is anticipated by having been previously described in numerous
printed publications. Of these there were introduced in evi-

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

dence in this cause by the appellant those enumerated in the
following list:
1. An extract from vol. 4, "Repertory of Patent Inventions," published in London in 1827, by T. & G. Underwood,
p. 113, which, however, merely contains a detailed description
of the machinery, tools, and apparatus for boring the earth,
described in John Goode's patent of August 20, 1823.
2. Extract from "Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and
Mines," by Andrew Ure, published in New York in 184, by
D. Appleton & Co., p. 63, under the head of "Artesian Wells."
3. Extract from p. 388 of "MacKenzie's 6000 Receipts in
All the Useful and Domestic Arts," first published in 1840.
4. Extract from "Rees' Oyclopledia," vol. 40, pulished at
Philadelphia by Samuel F. Bradford, about 1819, title "Well
in Rural Economy."
5. Extract from "Journal of the Franklin Institute," third
series, published at Philadelphia, by the Franklin Institute, in
1844, vol. 1, p. 128.
6. Extract from "Brande's Encyclopedia, or Dictionary of
Science, Literature, and Art," published by Harper Bros., New
York, in 1843, vol. 3, page 1333, under article "Well."
7'. Excract from "IRees' Oyclopsedia," vol. 33, title "Spring
Draining Pump."
8. Extract from "London Encyclopedia," published by
Thomas Tegg, London, 1829, vol. 22, p. 593.
9. Extract from "Mechanics' Magazine," published by
Knight & Lacey, London, 1824, vol. 2, pp. 15 and 16.
10. Extract from "Harper's New Monthly Magazine," September, 1851, p. 540.
11. Extract from "1De L'Art du Fontenier Sondeur et des
Puits Ar-t~siens," published in Paris, France, in 1822, p. 99,

79.
12. Extract from "Bulletin du Mus~e de l'Industrie," published by De Mot et Cie, Bruxelles, 1846, tome 10, p. 163.
13. Extract from "H6ricart de Thury, Jaillissement des
Eaux," published by Bachelier, Paris, France, 1829, pp. 274, 275.
14. Extract from ",F. Arago, Oeuvres," tome 6, by Gide et J.
Baudry, Paris, and Leipzig, by J. 0. Weigel, 1856, p. 457.
VOL. Cxxii-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

15. Extract from "F. Gamier, Trait6 sur les Puits Art&siens," published by' Bachelier, Paris, France, 1826, p. 207.
16: Extract from the "Encyclopodia of Domestic Economy,"
published in New York in 1849 by Harper Bros., p. 848.
The rule governing defences alleging the invalidity of the
patent by reason of prior printed publications was stated by
Mr. Justice Clifford in Seynmur v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 555,
in this language: "Patented inventions cannot be superseded
by the mere introduction of a foreign publication of the kind,
though of prior date, unless the description and drawings contain and exhibit a substantial representation of the patented
improvement, in such full, clear, and exact terms as to enable
any person skilled in the art or science to which it appertains,
to make, construct, and practice the invention to the same
practical extent as they would be enabled to do if the information ivas derived from a prior patent. Mere vague and
general representations will not support such a defence, as the
knowledge supposed to be derived from the- publication must
be sufficient to enable those skilled in the art or science to
understand the nature and operation of the invention, and to
carry it into practical use. Whatever may be the particular
circumstances under .which the publication takes place, the
account published, to be of any effect to support such a
defence, must be an account of a complete and operative invention, capable of being put into practical operation."
The same rule was repeated by Mr. Justice Strong in the
opinion of the court in CoAn v. United States Corset Co., 93
U. S. 366, 370, as follows: "It must be admitted that, unless.
the earlier printed and published description does exhibit
the later patented invention in such a full and intelligible manner as to enable persons skilled in the art to which the invention is related to comprehend it without assistance from the
patent, or to make it, or repeat the process claimed, it is insufficient to invalidate the patent." This rule was affirmed in
.Dontan v. Yeager Afilling Co., 108 U. S. 466, 471.
The application of this rule to the publications relied uponin the present case shows that none of them can properly be
said to anticipate the invention of the driven well. It would

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

serve no useffil purpose specially to notice in this opinion all
the publications nentioned in the record; a fe*, as samples
imost relied on, will be considered.
The first is the extractfrom _fcKenzie's 5000 Receipts. It
appears, from the fie wrapper in the matter of the reissued
letters-patent in suit, that the application was rejected at first
by the examiner in the Patent Office on reference to this
extract, which is as follows: "To raise water in all situations.
The finest springs may be found by boring, which is performed
in the simplest manner by the mere use of an iron rod forced
into the earth by a windlass. The workmen in a few days get
to a genuine spring of pure water, fit for every purpose. After
the water is found, they merely put the tin pipes down the
aperture, and it preserves a fine stream which sometimes rises
from four to five feet high." It is quite obvious that this has
no relation -whatever to the process of obtaining water by
means of driven wells. It is nothing more than a simple process of finding water in the usual way, as in the case of an
ordinary dug or bored well, such as have been immemorially
used.
The same observation equally applies to the extract from
Rees' Cyclopedia, under the title of "Wells in Rural Economy," which is as follows: "The most" ingenious of these is
that proposed by a French philosopher, who has advised that
the ground should be perforated to a sufficient depth by means
of an auger or borer; a cylindrical wooden pipe being then
placed in the hole and driven downward with a mallet, and
the boring continued, that the pipe may be forced down to a
greater depth, so as to reach the water or spring. In proportion as the borer becomes filled with earth it should be drawn
up and cleared, when by adding fresh portions of pipe, the boring
may be carried to much extent under ground, so that water
may in most cases be thus reached and obtained. It is stated
that wells made in this manner are superior to those constructed in the common method, not only in .point of cheapness, but also by affording a more certain and abundant supply
of water, while no accident can possibly happen to the workmen employed. In case the -waternear the surface should not

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

be of a good quality, the perforation may be continued to a
still greater d~pth till a purer fluid can be procured; and when
wells have become impure or tainted-from any circumstance
or accident, when previously emptied, and the bottom perforated in a similar manner, so as to reach the lower sheet of water,
it will rise in the cylindrical tube in a pure state into the body
of the pump fixgd for the purpose of bringing it up."
The extract from "Brande's Encyclopedia," under the article "Well," is as follows: "The use of the borer alone may
procure an adequate supply of water in particular situations.
This mode appears to have been long resorted to in this and
other countries. From what we have already.stated as to the
disposition of strata, the conditions requisite for, its success
will be readily conceived, viz., watery strata connected with
others on a higher level. The pressure of the water contained
in the higher parts of such strata on that in the lower will
readily force up the latter through any orifice, however small.
All that is necessary, therefore, is to bore down to the stratum
containing the water, and, having completed the bore, to insert a pipe into the bore, which may either be left to overflow
into a cistern or it may terminate in a pump."
A similar one from the Mechanics' Magazine, voL 2, page 16,
is this:
"Boring fWells.

"Answer to question.
"1LEEDS, -Yaro' 15, 1824.
"Drive a cast-iron pipe through the gravel -i.e., by means
of a weight hung at the end of spring pole, used in boring;
and should the pipe meet with any loose stone to obstruct its
passage, put the boring rods into the pipe, and bore until the
stone is broken to pieces or driven sideways, then drive the
pipe as before. I have had the management of a great many
bore. holes for water in this neighborhood, some above 100
yards deep, and many contrivances I have used on account of
difficulties met with in different strata. I shall be happy to
give your correspondent every information in my power on
the subject, and, if agreeable to you, will send a list of a few

EAMES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

holes, stating the different strata gone through and the several springs of water met with.
"Yours, &e.,

T. T.

"N.B. - The shell-borer must be used at times to bring, out
the gravel that gets into the pipe, and the pipe must have
spigot and faucet joints.'
There is nothing in these extracts to suggest the peculiarities which distinguish the driven well as described in the
reissued patent, and it may be said, in general, of all the
extracts contained in the record, including these, that, so far
as they undertake to describe anything in actual and practical
use, they point merely to the ordinary bored artesian well,
or the instruments and implements to be used in its construction.
This view of these publications is strongly corroborated by
the circumstances attending the introduction of Green's process of driven wells into public use in England. It is shown
that his agent for the introduction of the .well into that
country, and to whom the invention was sold, James L.
Norton, took out in his own name an English patent, and, as
has, already been stated, and as is shown in the proof, after
various experimental tests made by civil and military engineers of high authority, the driven well according to this
process was adopted and successfully employed for the purpose of obtaining a water supply for the British troops in the
Abyssinian expedition.' The present record*contains extracts
from standard scientific publications in England showing how
dxtensively and successfully the driven well has, since its first
introduction, been employed in England for the purpose of
raising water, in which it is admitted, as the facts show, that
the process was considered new, differing in substance from
any previously known and in use, and ascribed to the American invention.
The next defence relied upon by thie appellant is, that the
evidence fails to establish a case of infringement. It is not
important to set out fully the evidence on -this point; the
substance of it is contained in the opinion of Judge Shipman

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in this case, 15 Fed. Rep. 109. In reference to it the court
says: "The defendant's counsel strenuously urge that these
wells were constructed by boring ; that the- wells were bored
until water was struck-that is, until a supply of water was
obtained; and that the wells were finished by pressing the
pipes more deeply into the source of supply which had been
reached when the workmen 'struck water.' In other words,
the defendant seeks to bring the case within the decision of
Judge McCrary in And rews v. Long, 12 Fed. Rep. 81. In
this case, however, the witnesses, when they used the common,
expression ' struck water,' did not mean that they had reached
an adequate source of supply for a well, but that they had
reached a place where the presence of water manifested itself,
and where by continuous excavation an adequate supply
would be attained. The wet sand or wet clay upon the
auger showed that water was at hand. The well was then
finished, and a supply of water was obtained by pressing or
driving a tube into the ground, without removing the earth
upward, and attaching thereto a pump. When this was done,
there was put 'to practical use the new principle of forcing
the water in the water-bearing strata of the earth from the
earth into a well pit, by the use of artificial power applied to
create a vacuum in the water-bearing strata of the earth, and
at the same time in the well pit. Andrews v. Cross, 8 Fed.
Rep. 269 "'
In other words, the case of the appeijant is this: He sought
to evade the patent by boring instead of driving until he came
to the water-bearing stratum. Then, in order to avail him-self of the patent, he drove the tube downward into the
water-bearing stratum, so as to secure those conditions of an
air-tight connection between the point of the tube and the
surrounding earth, which constitute the principle of the drivenwell patent. It is, therefore, a clear case of infringement.
Te decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly affimed.
MR. JUSTIcE FIELD, MR.

GrAY dissented.

JusTICE BRADLEY,

and MR. JusTIoE

