CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

BARIES v,.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL
RAILWAY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued March 22, 23, 24, 1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

If a decree in equity be broader than is required by the pleadings, it will be
so construed as to make its effect only such as is needed for the purpose
of the case made by the pleadings, and of the issues which the decree
decides.
The decree entered in accordance with the opinion of this court in James v.
Railroad Co., 6 Wall. 752, when properly construed, invalidated the foreclosure of the mortgage made by the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company to the plaintiff in error only as to the creditors of the company
subsequent to the mortgage who assailed it in that suit, but did not affect
it as to the rights of the plaintiff in error or of the bondholders secured
by the mlortgage, which were acquired under that foreclosure.
The consent of bondholders required by the statute of Wisconsin to enable
the plaintiff in error to commence proceedings for the foreclosure of the
mortgage of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad was duly given, and
the outstanding bonds which were not actually surrendered and exchanged for stock were held by persons who, in law, must be regarded
as consenting by silence to the proceedings, and the present holderi
took them with full notice of that fact.
The plaintiff in error has no title under which he can maintain a bill in
VOL. CXXII-1

OCTOBER- TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
equity to take advantage of alleged frauds or irregularities in the foreclosure of prior liens upon the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad; or to
recover money paid by the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company
to redeem the Bronson and Soutter mortgage of that railroad.

Iw .equity Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is stated in the opimon of the court.
MA Fanwc
for appellant.

Fe owe and 21r TWiZ

m Barne8 in person

.ohnT F Cary for appellee.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WA1m delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by William Barnes to foreclose a mortgage,
made to him, as trustee, by the La Crosse and Milwaukee
Railroad Company) hereinafter designated as the La Crosse
Company 'The record shows that this company was incorporated by the legislature of Wisconsin on the 11th of April,
1852, to build and operate a railroad in that State between
La Crosse, on the Mississippi River, and Milwaukee, on Lake
Michigan, a distance of about two hundred miles. The road
was originally regarded by the company and treated as consisting of two divisions - one, called the Eastern Division,
extending from Milwaukee to Portage City, a distance of 95
miles, and the other, called the Western Division, extending
from L, Crosse to Portage City, a distance of 105 miles.
The Eastern Division was incumbered by three mortgages,
as follows 1, the Palmer mortgage, so called, to secure an
issue of bonds to the amount of $922,000, 2, a mortgage to
Greene 0. Bronson and James T. Soutter, to secure bonds
to the amount of $1,000,000, and, 3, a mortgage to the city
of Milwaukee, to secure about $314,000. The Western Division was likewise mcumbered 1, by a mortgage to Greene C.
Bronson, James T. Soutter, and Shepherd F Knapp, known
as the land-grant mortgage, to secure bonds to the amount of
$4,000,000, and, 2, by a mortgage to Albert Helfenstem, to
secure bonds for $200,000.

P3ARNES v. CHICAGO, &c., RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Judgments had also been rendered against the company
prior to June 21, 1858, as follows:
1. One in favor of Selah Chamberlain, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, on the 2d
of October, 1857, for $629,089.72, 2. Another in the same
court, on the 7th of October, 1857, m favor of Newcomb
Cleveland for $111,127.31, 3. Another in the Circuit Court
of Milwaukee County, in the spring of 1858, in favor of Sebra
Howard for $25,000, and 4. Another in the last-named court
in favor of the Mercantile Bank of Hartford, Conn., on the
12th of June, 1858, for $25,000.
On the 1st of June, 1858, the company, being embarrassed
by a large floating debt, and by its obligations to persons who
had mortgaged their farms to aid in building its road, determined to issue other bonds to the amount of $2,000,000, and
secure them by another mortgage on its entire line of road
between La.Crosse and Milwaukee, subject to the prior mortgage incumbrances. Accordingly the mortgage now i suit
was executed to William Barnes; trustee, on the 21s.t of June,
1858, to secure such an issue. It covered "all the property,
real and personal, of said railroad company to be acquired
hereafter, as well'as that which has already been acquired,
together with all the rights, liberties, privileges, and franchises
of said railroad company in respect to said railroad from M ilwaukee to La Crosse, except its land grant, but subject to
all the prior mortgages above referred to." Afterwards, on the
11th of August, 1858, a mortgage supplemental to this was
executed by way of further assurance. The mortgages thus
executed contained a provision that if there should be default
in the payment of interest for the space of fifteen days, the
principal should become due, and the trustee, on the request
of the holders of bonds to the amount of $100,000, should
advertise and sell the mortgaged property
Afterwards the following judgments were recovered against
the company,, namely, 1. One in favor, of Edwin 0. Litchfield,
in the District Court of the 'United States for the District of
Wisconsin, October 5, 1858, for $26,353.51, 2. Another in the
same court, April 5, 1859, in favor of Nathaniel S. Bouton

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

for $7931.37, 3. Another in favor of Philip S. Justice and
others, in the Circuit Court of the county of Milwaukee, for
$2035.33, and 4. Another in the last-named court, in favor of
E. Bradford Greenleaf, September 10, 1858, for $840.86.

At the time when the mortgage to Barnes was executed,
the Revised Statutes.of Wisconsin, ยง 33, c. 719, provided that,

in case- of any sale of a railroad "on or by virtue of any trust
deed, or on any foreclosure of any mortgage thereupon, the
party or parties acquiring the title under any such sale and
their assoclites, successors, [and] assigns, shall have and acquire
therebyi and shall exercise and enjoy thereafter all and the
same rights, privileges, grants, franchises, immunities, and
advantages in and by said mortgage or trust deed enumerated
and conveyed which belonged to and were enjoyed by the
company," so far as they relate to the property bought, in all
respects the same as "such company might or could have done
therefor had no such sale or purchase taken place, such purchaser or purchasers, their associates, successors, or assignors
[assignees], may proceed to organize anew and elect directors,
distribute and dispose of stock, take the same or another name,
and may conduct their business generally under and in the
manner provided in the charter of such railroad company, With
such variations in manner and form of organization as their
altered circumstances and better convenience may seem to
require."
Afterwards, on the 8th of February, 1859, an act supplementary to c. '9 of the Revised Statutes was passed, by
which it was provided that in case of any sale of a railroad
in Ithe State under a deed of trust, or on a foreclosure, if no
one bid an amount equal to seventy-five per cent of the
mortgage debt, the trustee might bid that amount or more, in
his discretion, to the full amount of the debt and interest due,
if competition should make it necessary, and that the estate
so acquired by the trustee should "be held in trust for the
holders of such outstanding bonds or obligatious in the same
manner as if they had become the purchasers, in proportion to
the amount of such bonds or obligations severally held by
them." Laws of Wisconsin, 1859, c. 10, p. 13.

BARNES v. CHICAGO, &c., RAILWAY
Opinion of the Court.

On the 11th of the same month of February holders of the
bonds secured by the mortgage m favor of Barnes, to the
amount of more than one hundred thousand dollars, presented
to him their request in writing that he proceed to sell under
his trust, and that he purchase the property at the sale for the
bondholders at the price of seventy-five per cent of the outstanding bonds and past due interest, and more if necessary, not exceeding the full amount of the debt, principal, and
interest. Accordingly he advertised the property for sale
pursuant to the provisions of his mortgage, and on the 21st of
May, 1859, bought it under the authority of the act of February 8, 1859, and the request which had been made, at the
price of $1,593,333.33, for the benefit of the bondholders.
Two days afterwards he united -with certain persons representing themselves to be the owners of bonds to the amount
of $1,302,850 in the organization of the Milwaukee and Minnesota company, hereafter called the Minnesota company, under
ยง 33, c. 79, of the Revised Statutes, to own and operate
the railroad, and by the same instrument he transferred his
purchase to the company The capital stock was fixed at
$2,500,000, and the articles of organization contained the following provisions in reference thereto
"Article IV The stockholders of the said Milwaukee and
Minnesota Railroad Company are the holders of the said
bonds, secured by the said mortgages or trust deeds, for whose
benefit the said sale and purchase was made by the said
William Barnes, and such other persons as shall hereafter
associate themselves with them by subscription to the said
capital stock or other proper means.
"Each holder of the said bonds, upon surrendering his
bonds to the proper officer of the said Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company, shall be entitled to receive a certificate of stock in the company hereby organized of an equal
amount with the principal of the bonds so surrendered by hin,
subject, nevertheless, to the payment in money of thepro ratar
share of the costs, charges, and expenses of the said sale and of
the organization, and of carrying the same into effect, being
the proportion of the whol6 of such costs, charges, and ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

penses as the amount of stock so to be issued shall bear to two
millions-of dollars.
"Article V The ,payment of the .said pro 'ata share of
such costs, charges, and expenses is hereby declared to be a
charge and lien upon the stock to which each holder of the
said bonds is entitled. And the board of directors of the said
Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company shall have
power to declare the right to such stock forfeited by the nonpayment of such pro rata share of such costs, charges, and
expenses m such manner as the said board of directors shall
determine."
On the 5th of December, 1859, a bill was filed in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, by
Bronson and others, trustees, against the La Crosse company,
the Minnesota compa.y, Helfenstem, trustee, and Cleveland and
Chamberlain, judgment creditors, to foreclose the land-grant
mortgage on the Western Division, and on the 9th of the
same month a like bill was filed in the same court against the
same parties by Bronson and Soutter, trustees, to foreclose
the mortgage to them on the Eastern Division. Under the
bill for the foreclosure of the land-grant mortgage the Westem Division was sold April 25, 1863, to purchasers who organized themselves, pursuant to ยง 33, c. 79 of the Revised Statutes, into a corporation by the name of the Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company, to which the property so purchased was duly conveyed. This company will be hereafter
referred to as the St. Paul company
In the suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage on the Eastern Division puch proceedings were had, that a receiver was
appointed; who took possession of the mortgaged -property,
under an order of the court, and caused it to be operated by
the St. Paul company, in connection with the Western
Division. Afterwards, on the 18th of July, 1865, it was
adjudged in this suit that the M innesota. company, upon the
,payment of the amount ascertained to be due on the Bronson
and Soutter mortgage for interest, be permitted to redeem
and take possession of the Eastern Division and the rolling
stock which belonged to it. On the 28th of September, 1865,

BARNES v. CHICAGO, &c., RAILWA1
Opimon of the Court.

a decree was entered finding due upon the mortgage $1,000,000
of principal and $454,937.39 of interest, and ordering a sale of
the mortgaged property for its payment, but saving the right
of the Minnesota company to redeem in the manner specified
in the order of July 18. On the 3d of January, 1866, this
company paid iuto the registry of the court the amount of
money required to make the redemptiom Th6reupon, all further proceedings under this suit for foreclosure were stopped,
and on 'the 20th of January, 1866, -the Eastern Division and
its rolling stock were handed over by the receiver to the possession.of the Minnesota company
On the 18th of April, 1866, Frederick P James, claiming
to be the assignee of the judgment against the La Crosse company in favor of lNewcomb Cleveland for $111,727.71, which
had been recovered prior to the execution of the mortgage- to
Barnes, commenced a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin against the Minnesota company, to enforce the lien of that judgment on the
Eastern Division, as being superior to the title acquired by the
company through the sale under the Barnes mortgage. Such
proceedings were had in this suit that, on the 11th of January,
1867, a decree was entered firding due to James on tins judgnient $98,801.51, and ordering a sale of the Eastern Division
for its payment, subject, however, to the liens of the mortgages prior to that of Barnes and to the lien of the Chamberlain judgment. Under this decree the property was sold and
conveyed to the St. Paul company, March 2, 1867, for
$100,920.94, and from that time that company has been in
possession, claiming title adversely to the Minnesota company
and to the Barnes mortgage.
On the 20th of April, 1863, while the suit for the foreclosure of the Bronson and Soutter mortgage was pending, and a
few days before the sale of the Western Division under the
foreclosure of the land-grant mortgage, Frederick P James
and Abram M.,Brewer, claiming to be the assignees of the
judgments m favor of Edwin C. Litchfield and Nathaniel S.
Bouton against the La Crosse company, which had been recovered after the execution of the Barnes mortgage, and Philip

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

S. Justice and others, and E. Bradford Greenleaf, also judgment creditors, brought suit m the Circuit Court of the United
States against the La Crosse 'company, the Minnesota company, and Selah Ohamberlaan, to set aside the mortgage to
Barnes and his foreclosure thereunder, and to have the property sold free of that incumbrance for the payment of their
judgments. In that suit a decree was rendered July 9, 1868,
in accordance with the prayer of the bill, save only that the
mortgage was adjudged to be valid to the extent of the bonds
that had been actually negotiated by the company to bonafide
holders. No further proceedings have been had in that suit,
and no attempt has ever been made to carry the decree into
execution.

Such being the conceded facts, Barnes, as trustee, brought
this suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin, on the 6th of June, 1878,
against the St. Paul company, which had changed its name to
that of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, the La Crosse company, and the Minnesota company,
for the foreclosure of his mortgage. In his bill he alleges, as
to the first foreclosure, 1, that it had been actually adjudged,
m the suit of James and others, to have been fraudulent and
null and void, and that the St. Paul company is estopped from
asserting to the contrary, because that suit was brought by its
procurement, and was in fact prosecuted by it and in its behalf,
although in the names of James and his associates, and, 2,
because the bondholders insist that the deeds of trust, "and
the powers in trust conferred thereby, remain ummpaired and
as they were before said proceedings for sale were had,
because they say
"I. The said estate was a trust, and a trust can never be
terminated without the consent of the oestu que trust except
by its due execution.
"2. Because the powers of sale granted by said deeds to
your orator are powers in trust, and, not having been executed
m conformity with the requirements of the deeds by wich
they were granted, remain unexecuted.
"3. Because the said act, c. 79, being repugnant to the Con-

BARNES v. CHICAGO, &c., RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution of the United States, no proper and legal execution of
said powers could be-made under its authority
"4. Because the terms and conditions prescribed by the act
were not complied with, and, therefore, even if the act were
valid, the said powers still remain powers in trust 'unexecuted;" and it was insisted "that no number of bondholders
less than the whole number entitled to the estate granted to
your orator by said deeds of trust as security could, under
ยง 33 of the statute laws of Wisconsin aforesaid, legally organize a corporation and vest in it the title to said estate, and so
deprive bondholders not consenting thereto of their security,
and that, inasmuch as bondholders to a large amount did not
consent tor the -said sale and organization, the same were null
and void."
As to the proceedings m the suits for the foreclosure of the
land-grant mortgage, and for the enforcement of the lien of
the Cleveland judgment under which the St. Paul company
acquired title, the material averment, m the view we take of
the case, is, that "the said Minnesota company, so called, had
no title to said estate, called the third mortgage, conveyed to
him (Barnes) by said deeds of trust, which could be barred by
said decree of foreclosure of said land-grant mortgage, or by
said decree of foreclosure, in 'the name of said James, upon
the said Cleveland judgment, and that your orator retaining
his title to said estate, and not being a party to said foreclosure sales, the said estate has ever remained, and now remains,
in hn, for the benefit of said cestuss quo trust, said decrees

and said pretences of the said defendants notwithstanding."
To this bill the St. Paul company filed a plea, setting up the
original foreclosure, "with the knowledge, consent, and approval, and at the request of the bondholders;" the purchase
at the sale by Barnes in trust for the bondholders, in accordance with the provisions of the act of February 8, 1859, the
organization of the Minnesota company for the purposes and
with the powers above stated, and the transfer of the property thereto. The plea then proceeds as follows
"That thereupon said bondholders surrendered their said
bonds to said corporation to be cancelled, and the same were

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

so cancelled, and the said corporation thereupon issued to
said several bondholders in exchange for their said bonds the
corporatestock of said IM:ilwaukee and Minnesota Railroad
Company to an amount equal to the principal of said bonds so
surrendered in pursuance of said articles of organization, and
which said stock was so received by said bondholders in full
satisfaction and payment of their said bonds, and that all of
the bonds issued by said La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company under said mortgages or trust deeds were then, at
the organization of said Milwaukee and Minnesota IRailroad
Company, or subsequently thereto, so surrendered to said corporation to be cancelled, and were cancelled, and stock of said
company issued therefor.
"That by the proceedings aforesaid the said mortgages or
trust deeds so as aforesaid given to said William Barnes were
foreclosed, and the right of redemption theretofore existing in
the said La Crosse &nd Milwaukee Railroad Company to
redeem said property from the lien of said mortgages or trust
deeds was thereby barred and foreclosed, and the said mortgage interest, so as aforesaid conveyed by said mortgages or
trust deeds to said William Barnes, became an absolute estate
in fee simple to all of the property covered by said mortgages
or trust deeds in the said Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad
Company, subject to the prior liens thereon, and that thereby
the trust relation to said property created by said mortgages
or trust deeds -between the said William Barnes and the
holders of the bonds issued under said mortgages or trust
deeds ended, and that no trust relation in respect to said property now emsts, or has existed, since the filing of said articles
of organization between said William Barnes and said bondholders."
It is then alleged that the Minnesota company was made a
party to the several suits under which the St. Paul company
claims title; that it appeared therein and "was recognized and
treated as the owner of the equity- of redemption of said property by virtue of the aforesaid proceedings;" and that, "by
means of the proceedings aforesaid, the said William Barnes
ceased to have any right, title, or interest as trustee as afore-

BARNES v. -CHICAGO, &c.,

RAILWAY.

Opinion of the Court.

said in, to, or upon or under the said alleged mortgages or
trust deeds, and his said bondholders ceased to have any right,
title, or interest in, to, or upon the premises described therein
and purporting to be affected thereby, and at the tne of
filing said bill of complaint the said William Barnes had no
right, title, estate, lien, clan, demand, or equity of redemption,
as trustee or otherwise, of, in, to, or upon the premises described
in the said mortgages or trust deeds."
This plea was set down for argument and sustained by the
court, whereupon a replication was filed and proofs taken.
After hearing, an interlocutory decree was entered April 21,
1882, finding that $1,010,400 of the bonds had been actually
exchanged for stock in the Minnesota company, that $693,000
had either been cancelled by the company before their issue,
or had been surrendered by their owners for cancellation, and
had actually been cancelled, after being issued, and that
$37,400, belonging to the St. Paul company, were then in
court, and for which no claim was made under the trust. The
total amount thus accounted for was $1,740,880, and as to
these, it was adjudged that they constituted no valid claim
against the La Crosse company under the mortgage, and that
so far as they were concerned, the plea of the St. Paul company was sustained, and Barnes was entitled to no relief.
As to the remaining $259,200 of bonds provided for in the
mortgage, a reference was made to a master to inquire and
report what, if any, were justly due and in equity entitled to
payment out of the mortgage security Under this reference
the master took testimony and reported in favor of the following persons and for the following amounts
1. Matthew H. Robinson, one bond, $100, on which
$417 55
was due for principal and interest
2. Frederick Van Wyck, assignee of William H. Sisson, 2 bonds, $1000, on which was due for prin4,175 50
cipal and interest
3. A. S. Bright and A. C. Gunison, 29 bonds,
$10,900, on which was due for principal and
45,512 95
interest

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

4. Andrew.J. Riker, 8 bonds, $800, on-which was
due for principal and interest

.. 3,340 40

5. August F Suelflohn, 4 bonds, $800, on which was
due for principal and interest
3,340 40
6. M. 1M. Comstock, 2 bonds, $200, on winch was
due for principal and interest
835 10
I. Mary Christie Eminonsi 2 bonds, $200, on winch
was due for principal and interest
835 10
8. Reid & Smith, 19 bonds, $6400, on winch was
due for principal and interest
26,723 20
9. J. H. Tesch, 11 bonds, $1100, on which was due
for principal and interest
4,593 05.
In all, bonds $21,500-due

$89,773 35

To this report exceptions were filed, which the court, after
hearing, "being of opinion that said clauns do not constitute
under the mortgages
a valid lien upon the property,"
sustained and dismissed the bill. From a decree to that effect
-this appeal was taken.
The ultimate question for determination is whether Barnes,
the trustee, and the bondholders secured by the mortgage to
him, are bound by the decrees in the suits for the enforcement
of the prior liens, namely, the land-grant mortgage, and the
Cleveland judgment, to winch the Minnesota company was a
party That depends on the legal effect of what was done by
Barnes in 1859, for the purpose of foreclosing his mortgage
and organizing the Minnesota company to take the property,
under his purchase at that sale, in trust for the bondholders.
It is now alleged that this was all null and void 1, because
it has been so adjudged in the suit brought by James and
othev, and, 2, because the act of February 8, 1859, under
which Barnes acted in buying at his own sale and organizing
the company, was unconstitutional in its application to his
m9rtgage, which was executed before its passage, and the
bonds secured thereby The claim is, that a purchase by
Barnes hinself at his own sale without the payment of his
bid in money, could not operate as a foreclosure of the mort-

BARNES v. .CHICAGO, &c., RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

gage, except with the consent of all the bondholders, winch
was never given.
The sufficiency of the first of these objections is to be determined by the averments in the bill, taken in connection
with the exhibits to which they relate. As to the second, the
St. Paul company pleads in substance that Barnes, in foreclosing his mortgage and in orgamzmg the Minnesota company
after ins purchase, acted "with the knowledge, consent, and
approval, and at the request of the bondholders."
1. As to the decree in the suit of James and others. The
copy of the bill in that suit, which is one of the exhibits in
tins case, shows that it was filed by certain judgment creditors
of the La Crosse company to collect their judgments. It is a
creditors' bill, pure and simple, brought by James and his
associates, "1on their own behalf, and in behalf of all the
creditors of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company,
who have or claim a lien upon the railroad of said company,"
and "who shall come m and seek relief by Dud contribute to
the expenses of this suit," to obtain a sale of "all. of the
property, real and personal, franchises and privileges of the
La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, or which was
theirs at the time of said sale by Barnes, May 21, 1859,"
"subject to the prior claims" described in the mortgage to
Barnes, "cand that the proceeds of said sale be brought into
court, to be divided according to the legal priorities of your
orators and the other claimants thereto." It alleges, in substance, that the mortgage to Barnes was executed "for the
purpose and with the design of bringing about a speedy sale
of said road and its franchises, and cutting off the stockholders in said company, and to hinder, delay, and defraud
company, and
the creditors of the said La Crosse
passing the property in or to the road and its franchises to
some of the directors of said company and their friends."
The La Crosse company, although nominally a party to the
suit, did not appear, aud did not ask relief, and there is no
pretence that the complainants either did or could prosecute
the suit in behalf of the stockholders. If, as is alleged, the
St. Paul company was the promoter as well as the real prose-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

cutor of the suit, it is bound only to the extent it would-be if
it had been actually. the complainant. The most that can be
claimed in this behalf is, that it stands in the place of the
complainants named in the bill, and is bound as they are
bound, no more, no less.
The decree-which, with the opinion of Mr. Justice Nelson, announcing the judgment of this court in James v Railroad Company, 6 Wall. '752, is one of the exhibits in this case
- adjudges that the mortgage to -Barnes was good and valid
"as a security for the bonds issued under it in the hands of
bona fide holders for value, without notice," which, it was
found,- did not exeeed $200,000; that the foreclosure and sale
be "set aside, vacated, and annulled," and the Minnesota com.pany be "perpetually restrained and enjoined from setting up
any right or title under it," because it was made in pursuance
of a notice clamnng that $2,000,000 of bonds had -been issued,
and there was default m the. payment of $'0,000 of interest
when'less than $200,000 'had ever been negotiated to bonaJge
.holders, and the foreclosure proceeding was in other respects
irregular and fraudulent, and that all the right,'title, interest,
and claim which the La Crosse company had in the railroad
from Milwaukee to Portage City be sold to pay the judgments
in favor of the .omplamants, "unless prior -to such sale the
defendants pay to said complainants " the amounts due
thereon.
Every decree in a suit-m equity must be considered il connection with the pleadings, and, if its language is broader than
is required, it .will be limited by construction so that its effect
shall be such, and such only, as is needed for the purposes of
the case that has been made and the issues that have been
v Railroad Company, 3 Wall. 704. Here
decided. Gra7h
the suit was by and for creditors to set aside the mortgage to
Barnes and the foreclosure thereunder, because made and had
to hinder and delay them in the collection of their debts. The
decree, therefore, although broader in its.terms, must be held
to mean no more than that the foreclosure was void as to
these creditors, whose claius were inferior in right to that of
the mortgage, and: that the Minnesota company was restrained

BARNES v. CHICAGO; &c., RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

and enjoined from asserting title as against them, and also
that, if they undertook to sell the property to pay their judgments, the mortgage to Barnes should stand only as security
for such bonds as had been actually negotiated by the La
Crosse company to bon,&fde holders.
Such also was the judgment of this court in Railroad Company v. Soutter, 13 Wall. 517, which was a suit brought by, the
Mfinnesota company, June 4, 1869, to recover back the money
it had paid to redeem the mortgage to Bronson & Soutter on
the Eastern Division, for the reason that the foreclosure of the
mortgage to Barnes was fraudulent, and it had been so adjudged m the James suit. In announcing the opinion of the
court, :Mr. Justice Bradley said, p. 523 "Who are the complainants? Are they not the very bondholders, self-incorporated into a body politic, who, through their trustee and agent,
effected the sale which was declared fraudulent and void its
against creditors, and made the purchase which has been set
But the complainants are wrong
aside for that cause?
in asserting that the property was not theirs. It was theirs.
Their purchase was declared void only as against the creditors
of the La Crosse and Mfilwaukee Railroad Company In other
words, it was only voidable, not absolutely void. By satisfying these creditors they could have kept the property, and
their title would have been good, as against all the world.
The property was theirs, but, by reason of the fraudulent
sale, was subject to the incuilibrance of the debts of the La
Crosse company This was the legal effect of the decree
declaring their title void. Therefore, they were, in fact, paying off an incumbrance on their property when they paid into
court the money which they are now seeking to recover
back."
This being tie extent of the legal effect of the James
decree, it follows that, if the proceedings by Barnes in 1859
for the foreclosure of his mortgage were sufficient in form,
the -Minnesota company represented that mortgage, and the
holder of the bonds secured thereby, in the suits to which it
was a party brought to enforce the prior liens under which the
St. Paul company claims title, and that both Barnes, the trus-

OCTOBER TERMT,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

tee, and the bondholders are bound by the decrees theret.
The La Crosse company has never disputed the title of the
Minnesota company, and the prior lien holders recognized it
as good when they proceeded against the company to enforce
their respective rights. The property has been lost, not
because the foreclosure was invalid, but because it was all
needed to satisfy liens which were prior in right to that of
the Barnes mortgage, under which alone the company claims
title. When the creditors m the James suit undertake to
carry their decree into execution it will be time enough to
consider how far they are bound by the decrees in the suits
for the enforcement of the prior liens which were all obtained
and executed pending their litigation with the company We
are now dealing only with Barnes and the bondholders claiming under him.
2. As to the plea. The bill m effect concedes, as is necessarily true, that if all the bondholders consented to a foreclosure under the act of February 8, 1859, the purchase of the
property by the trustee for their benefit and the transfer of
title by him to the Minnesota company as their representative,
would be good, even though without such consent it might
be bad. The plea alleges such a consent, and also an actual
exchange of all the bonds for stock m the company The
material question thus presented is, whether the bondholders
consented to what was done by the trustee in their behalf. If
they did, it matters not that some have omitted to surrender
their bonds for cancellation, and take certificates of stock in
exchange. If they assented to what was done they became
in law purchasers at the foreclosure sale, and, as such., stockholders in the company which was orgamzed under the statute
in their behalf to take the property from their trustee, and
that, too, without any formal surrender of their bonds. Their
stock was bound for the payment. in money of th'eir respective
pro rata shares of the costs, charges, and expenses of the sale,
and of the organization of the company and of cairymg the
same into effect. If they wanted certificates of stock, they
were required to surrender their bonds and pay what was due
from them on this account, but as bondholders, purchasing

BARNES v. CHICAGO, &c., RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

through their trustee, they became by the express terms of the
articles of organization stockholders in the new corporation,
with a lien on their shares for their proportion of the expenses,
&c The averment in the plea of an actual surrender of bonds
for cancellation, and an issue of stock in exchange therefor,
presents an immaterial issue. The voluntary exchange of
bonds for stock would show a positive assent to the foreclosure, but a failure to do so would not necessarily imply dissent.
The exact issue to be tried, therefore, is whether the .necessary consent was actually given. The enabling statute was
approved February 8, 1859, and on the 11th of the same
month, only three days afterwards, the requisite amount of
bondholders presented their request to Barnes that he proceed
to foreclose the mortgage and buy the property for the bondholders under the authority thus conferred on him for that
purpose. "In accordance with this request, he advertised the
sale, and made the purchase AlJay 21, 1859. Two days afterwards he organized the company, under the statute, to take
the title from hIm as trustee for those in whose behalf he
bought. From that tune forward, during all the protracted
litigation- winch ensued, this company claimed to own the
property, subject only to the mcumbrance of prior liens, and
neither Barnes nor any bondholder, so far as this record discloses, ever asserted the contrary until after the James suit
was decided, when the St. Paul company was in possession
under its purchases upon decrees for the enforcement of the
prior liens in suits to which the company was a party During all this time the Minnesota company was active in asserting its title, and its litigation with the prior incumbrancers
was constant and energetic, as the records of this court show
in B'ronson v Za Crosse Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 405, AS. 6. 2
Wall. 283, J ilwaukee Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 2 Wall. 440;
S. C. 2 Wall. 510, Graham v Railroad Co., 3 Wall. 704:,
2Jfilwaukee Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 5 Wall. 660, Railroad
Companws v Chamlerlamn, 6 Wall. 748, Railroad Company
v James, 6 Wall. 750, Railroad "Comvany v. James et al., 6
Wall. 152.
The amount of bonds authorized by the mortgage was
VOL. cxxIr-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

$2,000,000. The proof is abundant that of this amount
$1,010,400 were actually converted into stock, and that
$T30,400 had either been surrendered for cancellation because they had never been issued, or because the.holders made
no claim against the La Crosse company on their account.
The findings of the court below show the particulars as to the
whole of these two amounts, and we are entirely satisfied
with the correctness of the conclusions there reached. Some
of the holders claim that they were persuaded against their
own judgment, and, perhaps, against their will, to make
the exchange, but still their bonds were actually surrendered and certificates of stock taken in exchange there,
for. They kept silent during all the time the litigation with
the iinnesota company was going on, and uttered no complaints until after the J[ames suit was decided against their
interest then represented by that company
There remained, however, at the time of the rendition of
the interlocutory decree below, $259,200 of bonds unaccounted
for, and -a reference was made to a master to' receive claims
therefor, and to take testimony and report thereon. Under
this reference bonds to the amount of $21,500 were presented
to and allowed by the master. None of these bonds had
been actually surrendered to the company and exchanged for
stock, but after a careful examination of the testimony we
have no hesitation in deciding that, at the time of the foreclosure, they were held and owned by parties who in law consented thereto, and that the present holders toor them with
full notice of that fact.
Of the amount allowed by the master, Bright & Gunmson
alone represent $1',300, although Reid & Smith have a claim
on $6400 thereof for money advanced. Both Bright and Gunmson were officers in the M innesota company, and at times
very active in the management of its affairs. Of the bonds
which they represent $.7500 were owned by William E. Cramer
at the time of the foreclosure, and he signed the request to.
Barnes that he sell the property and buy it for the bondholders under the statute. These bonds were bought by Bright
and Gunnison, or some person whom they represent, after this

BARNES v. CHICAGO, &c.,

RAILWAY.

Opinion of the Court.

suit was begun, Cramer receiving for them $900. The rest of
the bonds which they present were undoubtedly owned by
them while they were acting as officers of the company, and
as such defending the suits for the enforcement of the prior
liens, if not at the time of the original foreclosure by Barnes.
Suelflohn, who presents a claim for $800, actually owned
his bonds at the time of the foreclosure and signed-the request
that was presented to Barnes. Robertson, who claims $100,
was a clerk in the office of Barnes when the bonds were issued,
during the foreclosure, and for many years afterwards. He
received his bond for services in connection with this business.
Mary Christie Emmons claims $200 for bonds she got from
her father, one of the original organizers of the company, and
named in the articles of organization as one of the directors, a
position which he occupied for several years afterwards.
Maria M. Comstock's claim is for bonds she got from her
father, Leander Comstock, who held them at the time of the
foreclosure, and who then did and ever since has resided in
Milwaukee, and presumably had knowledge of what was being
done. Frederick Van Wyck, who claims $1000, is a son-mlaw of Bright, and the bonds he presents were bought by him
at the suggestion of his father-rn-law from William H. Sisson
for a small sum after they had been filed as a claim by Sisson
himself. Sisson was a lawyer in Chicago, but whether he
owned the bonds or held them for others does not appear.
Andrew J Riker, who claims $800, was a broker in New York
at the time of the foreclosure and before and after. He owned
the bonds he now presents at that time and must have been
familiar then with all that occurred, for he held land-grant
bonds also, and says that after the foreclosure of that mortgage
he laid them aside as of no value, because he "thought the
thing was all closed up." John H. Tesch, who claims $1100,
held his bonds at the time of. the foreclosure. He resided
then and since in Milwaukee, and was familiar in a general
way with all that was done. He knew of the Barnes foreclosure, though he says. "I did not know that my bonds had
anything to do with it, I did not follow that up; it was a
common report mentioned in the newspapers., but did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

know it concerned me." But before that he had been informed by his counsel that they were good for nothing and
would'not be paid.
Under these circumstances, we cannot do otherwise than
decide, that the silence of the holders of these few bonds, during all the time the Minnesota company was acting m their
behalf, is equivalent to actual consent to the sale under which
the company got the right to represent their interests m the
litigation with the prior lien holders. They are the only persons, so far as the record discloses, who did not actually surrender their bonds and take certificates of stock therefor, and
it is now too late for them to say that what their trustee did
m their behalf was without authority There cannot be a
doubt that they knew of the foreclosure at or near the time it
took place. If the purchase was not made for their benefit
under the act of 1879, the trustee was accountable to them in
money for their proportion of what he bid for the property
For this they never applied, and it must, therefore, be assumed
that he bought for their account, as well as that of the other
bondholders, and that they assented thereto.
It follows that the plea has -been sustained by the evidence,
and this necessarily disposes of all the other questions m the
case. The sale by Barnes to the company under the foreclosure divested him of title and of his right to bring suit m behalf of bondholders. The decree in the James suit did not
It simply established the
dissolve the Minnesota company
right of the judgment creditors who brought that suit to redeem the Barnes mortgage, by paying the amount due for
bonds that had been actually negotiated by the La Crosse
company to bona ide holders, and to have the mortgaged
property sold subject to such a lien. The company still continued m existence and still owned the property that had been
bought, subject only to the inferior liens of the creditors whose
rights had been established.
Neither can Barnes now take advantage of the alleged frauds
or irregularities in the foreclosures of the prior liens. He not
only has no title under which he could proceed for that purpose, but all such questions were settled and finally disposed

STATE BANK v. ST. LOUIS RAIL CO.
Statement of the Case.

of in the decrees to which the Minnesota company was a
party
So, also, of the claim which was made before the master to
recover back the money paid to redeem the Bronson and Soutter mortgage. That money was paid by the Minnesota company, and that company alone can sue for its recovery Such
a suit was once brought and a decree rendered against the
company
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was
right, and it is consequently

STATE BA1TK v. ST. LOUIS-RAIL FASTENING
COMPAINY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted April 22,1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

The question whether, upon all the facts specially found by the Circuit
Court when a trial by jury has been waived, the plaintiff has the legal
right to recover, is not one which can be brought to this court by a certificate of division of opinion.

Tins was an action of assumpsit, brought by a corporation
of Missouri against a national bank established in Illinois, to
recover the amount of certain checks drawn on the bank in
favor of the corporation. Plea, non assumpsit. A jury was
duly waived, and the Circuit Court, held by two judges, found
and stated in detail certain facts, which may be summed up as
follows
About March 1, 1873, the bank was appointed depository
for the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Illinois, and was informed of the appointment. Shortly
afterwards the clerk of that court began to deposit with the
bank funds belonging in the registry of the court, and by his
direction the bank opened an account with the court. These
deposits were at first made to the credit of the particular case

