DENVER, &c., "RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Syllabus.

The decree i8 reverec,. and te cause is remanded, with
directions to that coupt to set aside. all orders inconsistent
with, and to enter such orders and decree as may be in conformity to, te prinipe8 of this #iion.
MR: TusTiC GRAY, not having heard the whole argument,
took 34a.part in this decision.
On the same day, (May 27, 1887,) on an application made on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, the court ordered that the mandate
in this case be stayed, and leave be granted to file a petition for a
rehearing.

DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILWAY.v. HARRIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
Argued May 5, 1887.-Dectded May 27,1881.

If a claimant of real estate, out of possession, resorts to force and violence
amounting to a breach of the peace to obtain possession from another
claimant who is in peaceable possession, and personal injury arises
thereupon to the latter, the party using such force and violence is liable
in damages for the injury without regard to the legal title, or to the
right of possession.
Iron Mountain and Helena .ailroad v. Jolnson, 119 U. S. 608, affirmed and
applied.
A corporation is liable for civiliter torts committed by its servants and
agents done by its authority, whether express or implied.
In trespass on the case to recover for- injuries caused by gunshot
wounds ingicted by defendant's servants, evidence of the loss of
power to have offspring, resulting directly and proximately from the
nature of the wound, may be received and considered by the jury,
although the declaration does not specify such loss as one of the results
of the wound.
In an action of trespass on the case against a corporation to recover damages for injuries inflicted by its servants in a forcible and violent
seizure of a railroad, punitive damages, within the sum claimed in the
.declaration, may be awarded by the jury, if it apnears to their satisfaction that the defendant's officers and servants, in the illegal assault

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Statement of the Case.
complained of, employdd the force with.bad intent, and in pursuance of
an unlawful purpose, wantonly disturbing the peace of the community
and eudangeriug life.
The Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway Company was in peaceable
possession of a railroad from Alamosa to Pueblo, and while so in possession, the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company, by an armed
force of several hundred men, acting as its agents and employes, and
under its vice-president and assistant general manager, attacked with
deadly weapons the agents and employes of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa F Railway Company having charge of the railroad, and forcibly
drove them from the same, and took forcible possession thereof.. There
was a demonstration of armed men all along the line of the railroad
seized, and while this was being done, and the seizure was being made,
the plaintiff, an cmploye of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway
Company, while on the track of the road, in the line of his employment,
was fired upon by men as he was passing, and s'eriously wounded and
injured. Immediately upon the seizure of the railroad as aforesaid, the
Denver and Rio Grande Company accepted it, and entered into possession and commenced and for a time continued to use and operate it as its
own. The plaintiff'brought this suit to recover damages for his injuries.
Held, that the Denver and Rio Grande Company was liable in tort for
the acts of its agents, and that the plaintiff could recover damages for
the injuries received, and punitive damages under the circumstances.

Tins action was brought by James Harris, the defendant in
error, against the Denver and Rio Grande ]Railway Company, a corporation of the state of Colorado, to recover damages for injuries which, lie alleges, were sustained by him, in
his person, by reason of an illegal and wrongful assault made
by that company, acting by its servants and agents. The plea
was not guilty. There was a verdict and judgment in favor
of the plaintiff for nine thousand dollars. The judgmem was
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the territory, and has been
brought here for review.
The defendant introduced no evidence, although its officers
were the chief actors on the occasion when the plaintiff was
injured.
The, case made by the latter and other witnesses
testifying ir. his behalf, is stated by the Supreme Court of the
territory, in the following extract from its opinion: -

"The record discloses the fact that there was evidence on
the trial in the lower court to the effect that about the tenth
or twelfth of June, 1879, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F

DENVER, &c., RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Railway Company was in peaceable possession, by its agents
and employes, of a certain railroad in the state of Colorado,
running from Alamosa to the city of Pueblo, in that state;
that at or about that date, and while the Atchison, Topeka
and Santa F6 Railway Company was so in possession of said
railroad, the plaintiff in error, the Denver and Rio Grande
Railway Company, by an armed force of several hundred men,
acting as its agents and employes, and under its vice-president
and assistant general manager, attacked with deadly weapons
the agents and employes of said Atchison, Topeka and Santa
F6 Railway Company having charge of said railroad, and
forcibly drove them from the same, and took forcible possession thereof; that there was a demonstration of armed men all
along the line of the railroad seized, and while this was being
done, and the seizure was being made, the defendant in error,
who was an employe of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railway Company, on said line of railroad, and while on the
track of the road, and on a hand-car thereon, in the line of his
employment, was fired upon by men as he was passing, and
seriously wounded and injured; that immediately upon the
seizure of the railroad as aforesaid the. plaintiff in error accepted it, and at once entered into possession thereof, and
commenced and 'for a time continued to use and operate the
same as its own.
.r.

Chiarles .X. Da Costa for plaintiff in error.

A writ of error always brings up to the superior court the
whole record of the proceedings in the court below. -Dred
Scott v. Sanford, 19 How. 393, 403. "But the present case
being brought here on a writ of error, the whole record is
under the consideration of the court." Bank of t/w United
States v. Smith, 11 Wheat. 171, 173. There can be no doubt
that anything appearing upon the record which would have
been fatal upon a motion in arrest of judgment is equally fatal
upon a writ of error., Marshall, C. J., in Slacum v. Pornery,
6 Crunch, .221.
The evidence which was before the court and jury at the

•600

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

time the chargewas 'delivered, and which constituted a part
of the -iecord when the motion in arrest was made, did not
disclose a case which in law supported the declaration, or
entitled the plaintiff to recover.
The declaratioi is in trespass. It is so identified, first, because it uses the test words "force and arms," which are the
translation of the original and characteristic words, "'Vi ' et
armis,," and, secondly, because it avers that the defendant
"unlawfully and wrongfully made an assault and beat, bruised
and wounded," which inlegal effect is adding the words "et
contra pavem," which further distinguish and identify the
action of trespass. Comyn, Action, M. 2, note 2. The plaintiff's declaration thereof is of a criminal assault
with a deadly weapon, with intent to kill. The Criminal Code
of Colorado, within which 'the assault toolk place, contains
these provisions:
"1 19. Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being
with malice aforethought, either express or implied.
"1§20. Express malice is the deliberate intention unlawfully
to take away the life of a fellow-creature, which is manifested
by external ciicumstances capable of proof.
" 53. An assault with intent to commit murder shall subject the offender to confinement in.the penitentiary for a term
of not less than one year nor more than fourteen years.
"§ 137. If two or more persons meet to do an unlawful act
upon a common cause of quarrel, and make advances towards
it, they shall be guilty of a rout, and on conviction, shall be
severally fined in a sum not exceeding seventy dollars, or imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding four months.
"§ 183. If any person shall have upon him any pistol, gun,
or other offensive weapon, with intent to assault any person,
every such person, on conviction, shall be fined in any sum
not exceeding five hundred dollars, or imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding six months."
It appears from ihe plaintiff's evidence: 1. That he criminally armed himself; 2. That being so armed, he voluntarily,
and in his individual capacity, and not as a "watchman,"
went out to meet those similarly armed, upon a common

DENVER, &c.," RAILWAY v, HARRIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cause of quarel, and with intent to kill them if he could "1I gave the order to the other boys to return the. fire; we
kept up the firing for ten or fifteen minutes. I said to the,
-rest of the boys, ' You had better quit firing, boys; there is a
train coming in front, and I guess they have got more men'
- and 3. That in the "rout" so occasioned he was shot.
The judicial inquiry, therefore, is, whether, when such circumstances are proved by the plaintiff a§ his case, he has any
legal cause of action against the person by whom he was shot,
and whether the evidence 'adduced supported the declaration',
which purported to set forth a good cause of action in trespass.
Under the given circumstance, the precepts a. maxims of
the higher civil and common law are adverse to the acknowledgment of any right of action on the part of the joint and
criminal wrongdoer, for, as was said in Rex v. Billingham, 2
Carr & P. 231, where the prisoners were indicted for a riot,
"By law whatever is done in such an assembly by one, all
present are equally liable for."
For centuries the former law has declared that "they who
take the sword, shall perish with the sword," and it would be
new in principle to hold that, because the "perishing" was incomplete, a cause of action accrued. Though it is not a conclusive objection that an action be new in the instance, it is a
persuasive argument against its maintenance that, in the multiform complexity of human concerns, no similar action has
been iaintained. "If a case in law have no cbusin or brother,
it is a sure sign that it is illegifiimate." Ld. Bacon, Spedding's
ed., v. I, p. 607. It is not believed that any case can be found
in which one injured in a duel has been allowed to recover
therefor from his antagonist, or in which, when one went out
avowedly to murder some one, and has -been injured before
the homicide was effected, he has been allowed -to recover.
The going out of A with intent to shoot B, and B's shooting
A after A has discharged his gun, does not seem from the
reports as yet to give a cause of action to A. Even if B were
indictable by the commonwealth, that would not demonstrate
his civil liability to one inpaii .eito, for the general rule
would seem to be as stated by Lord Lyndhurst, in fforiarty v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Brooks, 6 Carr & P. 684: -"If a person comes up to attack me,
and I put myself in a fighting attitude to defend myself, this
is not an assault on my part." Nor in this connection is it a
.matter of moment that the person who discharged the gun
might have -been personally a trespasser. _ocEvoy v. Drogheda, 16 Weekly Reporter, 34; Adams v. Waggoner, 33 Ind.
531; Bell v. Ran sley, 3 Jones, 131, and other similar cases do
not conclude the question which arises on the case, as made
by the plaintiff and not by way of evidence for the defence,
nor affirmatively settle -the law that the given case is not concluded by the application thereto of well settled precepts and
maxims of the civil and common law. Among these precepts
and maxims are the following: Consentio et agento pari2 npxe
ylectentur, 5 Rep. 80; and In pa delicto potior est conditio
defendentis, which is a maxim of public policy equally respected in courts of law and equity. Taylor v. Nhester, L. R.
4 Q. B. 309; see Story Eq. Jur. § 298; Broom's Leg. Max.
728; Colbu7% v. Patmore,1 Cr. M. & R. 73, 83, where it is
said: "I know of no case in which a person, who has. committed an act declared by law to be criminal, has been perinitted to recover compensation against a person who acted
jointly with him in the commission of the crime. It is not
necessary to give any opinion upon this point, but I may say
,that I entertain little doubt that a person who is declared by
law-to be guilty of a crime cannot be allowed to recover
damages against another who has participated in its commission."
.&xtur i causa 'non oritur adtio.
Volenti non Xt injuvia.
Consent is a perfect shield in civil injury.
Thus .in
Fivaz v. Yicholls, 2 C.B. 501 et seq., which was an
action brought for an alleged conspiracy between the defendant and one 0. to obtain payment of a bill of exchange,
accepted by the plain.tiff in consideration that B. would cease
from prosecuting C.for a crime, it was held that the action
would not lie, inasmuch as it sprang out of an illegal transaction in which both the plaintiff and defendant had been
engaged, and of which proof was essential to establish the
plaintiff's claim.

DENVER, &c., RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In Holman v. Johnson, Cowp. 341, 343, it was said: "The
principle of public policy is this, ex dolo, &c. iNo court will
lend its aid to a man who founds his cause of action upoix an
immoral or an illegal act," and what is illegality was stated
in .Degroot v. Van, Duzer, 20 Wend. 390, to be, "the intention
to aid in a violation of the law."
So also it was said in Lowell v. Boston & -LowellRailroad,23
Pick. 24, 32 [S. C. 34 Am. Dec. 33], that the general rule of law
is that where two parties participate in the commission of a
criminal act, and one party suffers damages thereby, he is not
entitled to indemnity or contribution from the other party. So
also is the rule of the civil law, "'emo ez delicto consequi potest
actionem." Here the plaintiff and the man who shot him were,
upon the plaintiff's evidence, jointly engaged in an attempt to
commit the murder of whomsoever they might shoot, and the
crime was none the less joint because each proposed to shoot
the members of the opposing party, and not their friends.
Again. He who voluntarily fires upon an opposing party
consents that such fire with all its consequences may be
returned. Like a man who goes unnecessarily where he is
advised that there are spring guns, he does so at his own peril.
*See also *'Holt v. Tilkes, 3 B. & Ald. 304; Stout v. WTren,
1 Hawks, 420; Galbraith v. Fleming, 27 N. W. lep. N. S.
581; Queen v. Guthrie,L. R., 8 Q. B. D. 553; Champer v. State,
14 Ohio St. 437; Dunean'v. Commonwealth, 6 Dana, 295;
Smith v. State, 12 Ohio St. 466, 470 [8. C. 80 Am. Dec. 355].
The ingenious -device of defeating the effect of. the assent by.
asserting that it is invalid, because the law does not permit.
an assent to be given to that which is criminal, was summarily
and properly disposed of in State v. Cooper, 2 Zabr. (22 N. J.
Law) 52, 53, in these words: "It was insisted upon the argument that the assent of the mother was null [to an attempt to
procure abortion before she was quick with child]; that the
offence was of so high a nature that 'no assent of hers could
purge the criminality. But this, it is obvious, is begging
the question. The clarge of assault against the person of the
mother is clearly purged of criminality by her assent. The
indictment is valid, but if, upon the trial, it appears that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

means used to procure the abortion were used with the consent of the mother, the defendant must be acquitted."
Under such circumstances, the maxims "Lo turpi, "In
jvari delicto," and "Consent is a perfect shield," apply, and
are decisive of the case, Taylor v. Chester, L. R., 4 Q. B. 314.
If they are so decisive, then a charge Which asserted an absolute
right to recover and a ruling which refused to arrest the judgment because there was no evidence to support the declaration,
were alike erroneous, and require a reversal of the judgment,
as such charge and ruling were duly excepted to at the time.
Upon the exceptions to the admission of evidence as to facts
and declarations both prior and subsequent to the injury, the
case of Vicksburg v. O'Brien, 119 U. S. 99, is relevant upon
the question of what evidence is so connected with the res
gestm as to be admissible; and the case of M(oore v. Arlan,
2 Chitty, 198, is relevant as to the evidence of the special
damage, in which Bayley, J., stated the rule as follows-: "The
rule as to special damage is that you may give in evidence any
special damage which is the clear and immediate result of the
act complained of, but you cannot give in evidence as special
damage any remote consequences." A supposed inability hereafter to procreate would seem to be rather a remote consequence from a gunshot wound in the hip, especially as the
atteif pt does not appear to have been made, and before evidence thereof was admissible that result should have been
pleaded as the clear and immediate result of the wound. It is
not believed that the literature of the medical profession
would afford any easily accessible precedent establishing that
the "swelling" and " wasting away" described on p. 13 of
the record, and so strongly submitted in the charge-were the
"clear and immediate result" of a ball passing through the
hip. But if it would, the defendant was entitled to notice in
tl~e declaration that that result would be proved as "a clear
and immediate" one, so as to enable it to be prepared to meet
the evidence adduced.
.-Mr. John . Waidron and 21fr. Edward 0. Wolcott also
filed a brief for plaintiff in error.

DENVER, &c.,

RAILWAY

. HARRIS.

Opinion of the Court.

.M'r. John H..Znaebe for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIoE
_ARLkN, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.,

One of the propositions advanced by counsel for the company is this: That it appears from the plaintiff's case, and by
his evidence, that he voluntarily armed himself, and taking
the law into his own hands, joined an illegal assembly for the
purpose, if nedessary, of committing murder; that, in the
course of the riot and rout,.he received a wound at the hands
of those. whom he had sought by violence to destroy; that,
under such circumstances, the law will not permit him to recover for an alleged assault, but conclusively presumes his
assent thereto; Aor will the law permit him to recover through
the medium and by the aid of an illegal-transaction, to which
he was a party, and which constitutes the foundation of.his
case.
The same proposition was stated in another form in argument: That the plaintiff engaged voluntarily, and not for his
necessary self-defence, in a physical combat with others, and
cannot, upon principle, maintain a civil action to recover damages for injuries received in such combat at the hands of his
adversary, unless the latter beat him excessively or unreasonably; this, upon the ground that, "where two parties participate in the commission of a criminal act, and one party suffers
damages thereby, he is not entitled to indemnity or contribution from the other party."
. These propositions have no application in the present case.
The evidence, taken together, furnishes no basis for the suggestion that the plaintiff voluntarily joined an illegal assembly for the purpose, if necessary, of committing murder,
or any other criminal offence. Nor does it justify the assertion that he voluntarily engaged in a physical combat with
others. All that he did on the occasion of his being injured
was by way of preparation to protect himself, and .the prop-.
erty of which he and his co-employes were in peaceable
possession, against organized violence. It appears in proof.

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

as stated by the court below, that the Atchisofl, Topeka and
Santa F6 Railroad Company was in the actual, peaceable possession of the road when the other company, by an armed
body of men, organized aid under the command of its chief
officers, proceeded, in a violent manner, to drive the agents
and servants of the former company from the posts to which
they had been respectively assigned. It was a demonstration
of force and violence, that disturbed the peace of the entire
country along the line of the railway, and involved the safety
and lives of many human beings. It is a plain case, on the
proof, of a corporation taking the law into its own hands,
and by force, and the commission, of a breach of the peace
determining the question of the right to the possession of a
public highway established primarily for the convenience of
the people. ,The courts of the territory were open for the
redress of any wrongs that had been, or were being, committed against the defendant by the other company. If an
appeal to the law, for the dete'mination of the dispute as to
right of possession, would have involved some delay, that was
no reason for the employment of force-least of all, for the
use of violent means under circumstances imperilling the peace
of the community and -the lives of citizens. To such delays
all- whether individuals or corporations - must submit, whatever may be the temporary inconvenience resulting therefrom.
We need scarcely suggest 'that this duty, in a peculiar gense,
rests upon corporations, which keep in their employment large
bodies of men,* whose support depends upon their ready obedience of the orders of their superior officers, and who, being
6rganized for the accomplishment of illegal purpos'es, may
endanger the public peace, as well as the personal safety and
the property of others besides those immediately concerned in
their movements.
These principles, under somewhat different circumstances,
were recognized and enforced by this court at the present
term. One Johnson was in the actual, peaceable possession of
eighteen miles of a railroad built by him for a railroad company, and was running his own locomotives over it. He
claimed the riglit to hold possession until he was paid for his

DENVER, &c., RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Opinion of the Court.1

work.

Put the company, disputing his right to possession,

ejected him by force and violence. lie brought his action of
forcible entry and detainer. This court said that the party
"so using force and acquiring possession m ay have the superior title, or may have the better right to the present possession, but the policy of the law in this class of cases is to
prevent dIsturbances of the public peace, to forbid any person
righting himself in a case of that kind by his own hand and
by violence, and to require that the party who has in this
manner obtained possession shall restore it to the party from
whom it has been so obtained; and then, when the parties are
in stattt qito, or in the salme position as they were before the
use of violence, the party out of possession must resort to
legal means to obtain his possession, as lie should have done
in the first instance," Ii'oz 3lountabi & Irelen Ptailroadv.
Joanwon, 119 U. S. 608, 611. While this language was used
in a case arising under a local statute, relating to actions of
forcible entry and detainer, it is not without force in cases like
this, where the peaceable possession of property is disturbed
by such means as constitute a breach of the peace. If, in the
employment of force and violence, personal injury arises therefrom to the person or persons thus in peaceable possession, the
party using such unnecessary force and violence is liable in
damages, without reference to the question of legal title or
right of possession.
lReference was made in argument to those portions of the
charge that refer to the liability of corporations for torts committed by their employes and servants.
In _Philade )Aia, ~ilrnington' & Baltimore Balh'oad v.
Quigley, 21 How;. 202, this court held that a railroad corporation was responsible for the publication by them of a libel, in
which the capacity and skill of a mechanic and builder of depots, bridges, station-houses, and other structures for railroad
companies, were falsely, and maliciously disparaged and under-,
valued. The publication, in that case, consisted in the preser
vation, in the permanent form of a book for distribution among
the persons belonging to the corporation, of a report made by
a committee of the company's board of directors, in relation

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the ;Court.

to the administration and dealings of the plaintiff as a superintendent of the road. The court, upon a full review of the
authorities, held it to be the result of the cases, "that for acts
done by the agents of a corporation either in contaetu or in
delicto, in the course of its business, and of their employment,
the corporation is responsible as an individual is responsible
under similar circumstances." In State v. -Morris & Essew
Railroad, 23 N. J. Law ( Zabriskie) 369, it was well said
that; "if a corporation has itself no hands with which to strike,
it may employ the hands of others; and it is now perfectly
well'settled, contrary to the ancient authorities, that %corporation is liable civiliter for all torts committed by its servants
or agents by authority of the corporation, express or implied..
..
The result of the modern cases is, that a corporation
is liable civiliter for torts committed by its servants or agents
precisely as a i-tural person; and that it is liable as .a natural
person for the acts of its agents done by its authority, express
or implied, though there be neither a written appointment
under seal. nor a vote of the corporation constituting the
agency or authorizing the act." See also Salt Lakce City v.
11ollidter, 118 U. S. 256, 260; -New Jersey Steamboat Company
v. .Brockett, 121 U. S. 637; :AYationaZ Bank v. Graham, 100
U. S. 699, 702. The instructions given to the jury were in
harmony with these salutary principles. Whatever may be
said of some expressions in the charge, when detached from
their context, the whole charge was as favorable to the defendant as it was entitled to demand under the evidence.
One of the-consequences of the wound received by the plaintiff at the hands of the defendant's servants was the loss of
the power to have offspring - a loss resulting directly and
proximately from the. nature of the wound. Evidence of this
fact was, therefore,, admissible, alihough the declaration does
not, in terms, specify such loss as one of the results of the
wound. The court very properly instructed the jury that such
%impotency,if caused by the defendant's wrong, might be considered in estimating any compensatory damages to which the
plaintiff might be found, under all the evidence, to be entitled.
IFadev. Leroy, 20 How. 34, 44.

.DENVER, &c., RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Opinion

9f

the Court.

The court also instructed the jury that they were not limited
to compensatory' damages, but could give punitive or exemplary damages, if it was found that the defendant acted with
bid intent, and in pursuance of an unlawful purpose to forcibly
take possession of the railway occupied by the other company,
and in so doing shot the plaintiff, causing him incurable and
permanent injury; always bearing in mind that the total damages could not exceed the sum claimed in the declaration,
This instruction, the company contends, -was erroneous. Its
counsel argue that, while a master may be- accountable to an
injured party to the extent of compensatory damages for the
wrongful acts of his servant - provided the servant is acting
within the general scope of his employment in committing the
injury -even though the master may not have authorized or
may have even forbidden the doing of the particular act complained of, yet he cannot be mulcted in exemplary damages
unless he directed the servant to commit the special wrong'in
question in such manner as to personally identify himself with
the servant in the perpetration of the injurious act.
The right of the jury in some cases to award exemplary or
punitive damages is no longer an open question in this court.
In Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 371; which was an action
of trespass for tearing down and destroying a mill-daii, this
court said that in all actions of trespass, and all actions on the
case for torts, "a jury may inflict what are called exemplary,
punitive, or vindictive damages, upon a defendant, having in
view the enormity of his offence rather than the measure of
compensation to the plaintiff;" and that such exemplary damages were allowable ." in actions of trespass, where the injury
has been wanton or malicious, or gross and outrageous." The
general rule was recognized and enforced in Philade phia,
Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Ca. v. Quigley, which, as
we have seen, was an action to recover damages against a corporation for a libel; in the latter case, the court observing that
the malice spoken of in the rule announced in Day v. Woodworh was not merely the doing of an unlawful or linjurious
act, but the act complained of must have been conceived "in
the spirit of mischief or of criminal indifference to civil obliVOL. CXX=-39

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

gations." See also 31ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Arm8,
91 U. S. 489, 492; XAissouri Paoiic Railway v. Humes, 115
U. S. 512, 521; and Barry v. Edmunds, 116 'U. S. 550, 562,
563.
The court, in the present case, said nothing to the jury that
was inconsistent with the principle as settled in these cases.
The jury were expressly restricted to compensatory damages,
unless they found from the evidence that the defendant acted
with bad intent and in pursuance of an unlawful purpose to
employ force to dispossess the other company. The doctrine
of punitive damages should certainly apply in a case like this,
where a corporation, by its controlling officers, wantonly.disturbed the peace of the community, and by the use of violent
means endangered the lives of citizens in order to maintain
rights, for the vindication of which, if they existed, an appeal
should have been made to the judicial tribunals of the country.
That the defendant, within the meaning of the rule holding
corporations responsible for the misconduct of their servants
in the course of its business and of their employment, directed
that to be done which was done, it is not to be doubted from
the evidence, the whole of which is given in the bill of exceptions. Its governing officers were in the actual command and
directing the movements of wlat one of the witnesses described as the "Denver and Rio Grande forces," which were
avowedly organized for the purpose of driving the other company and its employes, by force, from the possession of the
road in question.
Other questions were discussed by counsel, but they do not,
in our. judgment, - .deserve consideration. Substantial justice
has been done without violating any principle of law in the
admission of evidence, or in the granting or refusing of instructions.
The judgment isafjfrmed.

