M1AXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Syllabus.

This decree was rendered October 6, ISSO, and the present
appeal was not taken until September 24, 188-,

nearly four

years afterwards. There is no suggestion of disability such as
would bring the appellant within the proviso. The appeal
should, therefore, be dismissed, Scarborough v. Pargoud, 108
U. S. 567, and it is so ordered.
AppeaZ dismissed.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNhITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted May 12, 187.-Decided May 27, ISS7.

The court rested its judgment in this case, 121 U. S. 325, not upon the fact
of the grant to Beaubien and Mliranda being an enpresario grant, but
upon the fact that Congress, having confirined it as made to Beaubien
and Miranda, and as reported for confirmation by the Surveyor General
of New Mexico to Congress, without qualification as to its extent, acted
in that respect entirely within its power, and that its action was conclusive upon the court.
The court stated in its former opinion, and repeats now, its conviction that
the grant by Aimijo to Beaubien and Miranda described the boundaries
in such a manner that Congress must have known that the grant so
largely exceeded twenty-two leagues that there could be no question
upon that subject, and it must have decided that the grant should not be
limited by the eleven leagues of the Mexican law.
The court repeats the conviction expressed in its former opinion, with
further reasons in support of it, that Beaubien, in the petition which he
presented against the intrusion of Martiuez, did not refer to his own
grant as being only fifteen or eighteen leagues, but to the grant under
which Martinez was claiming.
The court assumes that references in the petition to newly discovered and
material evidence touching the fraudulent character of the grant are addressed to the Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney General, as the
rehearing in this court can be had only on the record before the court, as
it came from the Circuit Court.
The court remains entirely satisfied that the grant, as confirmed by Congress, is a valid grant; that the survey and the patent issued upon it, as
_7ell as the original grant by Armijo, are free.from fraud on the part of
the grantees or those claiming under them; and that the decision could
be no other than that made in the Circuit Court, and afllrmed by this
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petition for Rehearing.

Tins was a petitioh for a rehearing of the case, the decision
of which was announced April 18, 1887, and is reported at
121 U. S. 325. The petition and brief in support of it were
as follows:
" SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
"OCTOBER
"THE

TERM&, 1886.

UNITED STATES, APPELLANT,

TiE MAxwELL L.N-GR~xT CoMPAy
OTHERS.

AND

.

"MOTION.

"And now comes the United States, appellant, and moves
the court to allow a rehearing of the cause above entitled
upon the grounds stated in a brief herewith filed.
BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF THE MOTION FOR A MEREARING.

"The urgency of the occasion makes it hardly practicable to
do more than submit the motion to rehear this cause upon the
grounds presented in a letter from the Acting. Comnissioner
of the Land Office to the Secretary of the Interior, which
letter isapproved by the Secretary of the Interior and referred by him to the Attorney General for action. thereon.
A copy of that letter is made a part of this brief. (Vide
Appendix.)

-

"In connection with so much of that letter as relates to
empresario grants, it is, perhaps, proper to refer the court
again to the elements of that- class of gtants as given in the
third article- of the -Mexican colonization -law of the4th January, 1823, .which is in these words:
"ART. b. The empresarios, by whom i understood those
who introduce at lehst two hundred families, shall previously
contract with the 6xecutve, -and inform itwhat branch of
industry they pro'pose'-to follqwj. the,'property or resources
they intend to introduce for that purpose, and ahy. other pakticulars they may deem necessary; in. order that with this

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Petition for Rehearing.

necessary information, the executive may designate the
province to which they must direct themselves, the lands
which they can occupy with the right of property, and the
other circumstances which may be considered necessary.
(Vide Hall's Mexican Law, p. 103.)
"It is to be regretted that the urgency of the matter has-prevented the Secretary of the Interior from furnishing some
representation of the character of the newly discovered evidence referred to in the letter from the Acting Commissioner
of the Land Office. It is possible, however, that the court,
looking at the magnitude of the public interests involved, and
the fact that this motion has the sanction of the head of a
great Department of the Government and is, made by his
request, will allow the United States an opportunity not only
to make a satisfactory statement of the evidence which, it is
claimed, has been newly discovered, if it appear possible that
any such evidence could be taken into consideration on this
appeal, but, also, to present such additional matters of law as
may tend to support the said motion.
"Wm. A. Mumy,
"Assistant Attorney General.
"APPENDIX.
DEPAr~mENT OF
"GENERAL-

THE

INTERIOR,

LA N-D OmIcE,

"lTashington,.D.C., .Iay--, 1887.
"Hon. L. Q. C. LAIA,
"1Secretaryof the Interior:

"Sm: I respectfully recommend that the honorable Attorney
General be requested to file a motion in the Supreme Court
for rearguament of the Maxwell land-grant'.case, in which the
decree of the circuit court for the district of Colorado was
affirmed April 18th last.
"The grounds upon which I think rehearing should be had
are that the court was fundamentally in error in treating the
grant as an empresario grant, since, 1st, that no contract was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
. Petition for Rehearing.

entered into, as provided by the Mexican laws, for the introduction of persons of the class, or upon the terms prescribed in.
such cases; 2dc,that an analysis of the grant to Beaubien and
Miranda will disclose that no empresario feature entered into
said grant; 3d, that said grant was specifically a lirivate settlement grant, made to two persons, for eleven leagues, and that
eleven leagues only was applied for by, or granted to, said
Beaubien and Miranda, to b6 equally divided between them;
and that the foregoing propositions can be shown and demonstrated upon rehearing.
"The decision of the court turned upon the error above
alleged; and the proposition that Congress intended to give
these persons a body of land vastly in excess of the quantity
which the Mexican governor had authority to grant, or which
the United States was bound by the law of nations or the
treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo to confirm, rests primarily upon
said error.
"The court was also mistaken in conceiving that Beaubien's
statement to the Departmental Assembly that the gTant
claimed did not exceed fifteen or eighteen leagues, referred to
a grant made to Martinez.
"It was error further to assume that the Surveyor General
reported to Congress upon the extent of the grant, or that
Congress knew or considered the question of quantity, since
no survey has been made and no statement of area, other than
that made by Beaubien to the Departmental Assembly, appears in the papers in the case. The report of the surveyor
general was upon the question of title only, and the confirmation by Congress should be held to carry only what was granted
under the laws of Mexico. The Surveyor General's report was
itself an imposition upon Congress since it declared that all
proceedings had been regular and in accordance with law and
that the grant had been confirmed by the Departmental Assembly, -which declarations do not appear to be sustained by
the evidence.
"I am also advised that new and material evidence touching
the fraudulent character of this grant, and the alleged juridical possession, has been discovered, which may be indicated to

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Petition for Rehearing.

*yourself and the honorable Attorney General aid made part
of a basis for a new trial in the lower court, or produced in
the suit which I have recommended should be brought in
New Mexico. I respectfully urge that the New Mexico suit
be brought and pressed, since the .record now before the Supreme Court fails to disclose the full case of the Government.
But in any event I deem it essential tp the interests of the
Government to urge rearguitent in the present case, as, even
with the imperfect record, it is my opinion that weighty and
sufficient reasons can be brought to the notice of the court to
justify a review of its decision or a remand for rehearing upon
the merits of the case.
"I am also assured that, if agreeable to yourself and the honorable Attorney General, the Hon. Benjamin F. Butler, with
whom Commissioner Sparks has conferred upon the legal
points involved in the case, can be engaged, upon terms satisfactory to the Department of Justice, to file a brief in support
of the motion for reargument, and I respectfully suggest that
General Butler's services be availed of. If you so desire, General Butler will wait upon you at any time youmay indicate
to consult you in the matter, and will lay before you the newly
discovered evidences referred to, which are in his possession.
"In view of the importance of the case, and the short time
remaining in which motions for rehearings may be filed, (the
last day expiring, as I am informed, on the 12th intant, or, in
view of the public ceremonies on that -day, possibly to-morrow,) I would ask your immediate consideration of the subject.
"The foregoing recommendations are made in accordance
with my understanding of the views and wishes of Conunissioner Sparks as communicated to me 'by him prior to his
leaving the city.
"Very respectfully,
"S. M. STOCKSLAGER.
"Acting ConiMissioner.
"Approved.
"L.

Q. C.

LAN[Ar.

"Secret'ry."
L
VOL. CXxii- --

370

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE, M=FR delivered the opinion of the court.

A petition for a rehearing has been filed in this case, and
on account of its importance, as well as the interest in it manifested by the Department of the Interior, we have considered
the petition very fully, and, departing from our usual custom,
make some response to its suggestions.
The first ground on which a rehearing is asked is, that this
court was in error in treating the grant to Beaubien and Miranda as an empresario grant, upon which alleged-mistake it is
asserted that the decision of the court turned. The error,
however, is in the assumption in the petitibn that the decision
of the court turned upon that point. It is true that the Assistant Attorney General, in his argument on behalf of the
United States, rested the case almost exclusively, so far as he
was concerned, on the proposition that the validity of the
grant was governed by the limitation of the decree of the
Mexican Congress of 182: to eleven, square leagues for each
grantee, in ordinary grants; and in response to that argument
we endeavored to show, that while the land in controversy
was-not strictly an empresarizo grant, there being no evidence
of a contract with any person to bring emigrants from abroad
for the purpose of settling them upon the land, yet that it
partook very largely of that character, and that Beaubien and
Miranda, Governor Armijo, the Departmental Assembly, and
the Surveyor General, had all looked upon it as partaking so
much of that nature, in regard to the quantity of land granted,
as well as the actual settlement of families upon it, that the
Congress of the United States was justified in treating it likewise. But we stated distinctly.that wedid not rest our judgment upon the fact of its being an empresario grant, but upon
the proposition that the Congress of the United States, having
confirmed this grant as made to Beaubien and Miranda, and
reported for c6nfirmation by the Surveyor General of New
Mexico to that body, without qualification or limitation as to
its extent, acted in that respect within its power, and -that its
action was conclusive upon the court.
In the opinion, after discussing the history of this grant,

MAXWELL -LAND-GRA&NT CASE.

371

Opinion of the .Oourt.

aud its conformity to the character ,of a colonization grant, it
was said, 121 U. S. 363: "The final confirmation of this grant
by the CongreSs of the United States in 18,60 affords strong
ground to -believe that that body viewed it as one of this character, and not onc governed by the limitation of eleven square
leagues to each grantee."
' Afterwards we added, p. 365: "But whether, as a matter of
fact, this was a grant, not limited in quantity, by the Mexican
decree of 1824, or whether it was a grant which in strict law
would have been, held by the Mexican government, if it had'
continued in the ownership of the property, to have been subject to that limitation, it is not necessary to decide at this
time. By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, under which
the United States acquired the right of property in all the
public lands of that portion of New Mexico which was ceded
to this country, it became its right, it had the authority, and
it engaged itself by that treaty to confirm valid Mexican
grants. If, therefore, the great surplus which it is claimed
was conveyed by its patent to Beaubien and Miranda was the
property of the United States, and Congress, acting in its
sovereign capacity upon the question of the validity of the
;grant, chose to treat it as valid for the boundaries given to it
by the Mexican governor, it is not for the judicial department
* of this government to controvert their power to do so."
. In support of this we cited Tameing v. United States Freehold Co., 93 U. S. 644, in which thaG proposition is emphatically
laid down. And in the concluding paragraph of the opinion,
referring to the constitutional provision that Congress shall
have power to dispose of the territory, or other property,
belonging to the United States, p. 382, we further said:
"At the time that Congress passed upon the grant to Beaubien and Miranda, whatever interest there was in the land
claimed which was not legally or equitably their property was
the property of the United States; and Congress having the
power to dispose of that property, and having, as we understand it, confirmed this grant, and thereby made such disposition of it, it is not easily to be perceived hoiv the courts of the
United States can set aside this action of Congress."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, therefore, quite clear that, as regards this question, the
court rested its opinion upon the action of the Congress of
the United States.
In reference to this action of Congress, the petition says
that.it was error on the part of the court "further to assume
tha+ the Surveyor General reported to Congress upon the
extent of the grant, or that Congress knew or considered
the question of quantity, since no survey had been made and
no statement of area, other than that made by Beaubien to

the Departmental Assembly, appears in the papers in the
case."
It is nowhere stated in'the opinion of the court that Congress had before it any actual computation of the contents of
this grant, either of the number of acres or the number of
square leagues, 'but what the court said upon that subject was,
in reply to the argument of the. counsel for the United States,
that the Surveyor General had no authwrityto determine upon
the extent of the grant. This was shown to be an error, inasmuch as the statute under which he acted required him to
report upon the extent of the grant, as well as upon its
validity.
It is true that there was in the papers no report of the number of leagues or the number of acres embraced within the
grant. That was probably not known with any degree of
accuracy by anybody at that time. But the grant by Armijo
to Beaubien and Miranda described the boundaries in a manner which could lea-ve no doubt upon the mind of Congress
that the grant was an immense one, and so largely exceeded
twenty-two leagues that there could be no question upon that
subject., Besides this, there was among the papers in the
office of the Surveyor General the disefio, or plat, made and
returned by the Alcalde Vigil, who delivered the juridical
possession to the grantees, which also made it plain that an
immense quantity of land beyond the twenty-two leagues was
included within the grant.
Other reasons given in the opinion, which we do not think it
necessary to repeat here, convince us that Congress knew that
it was dealing with an extraordinary grant, and must hve de-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

cided that it should not be limited by the eleven leagues of
the Mexican law.
Itis said further in the petition that "the court was also
mistaken in conceiving that Beaubien's statement to the Departmental Assembly, that the grant claimed did not exceed
fifteen or eighteen leagues, referred to a grant made to Martinez."
In the argument of the case before us: counsel made but a
brief allusion to the proposition that Beaubien, in the petition
which"he presented against the intrusion of the priest Martinez,
speaks of his own grant as being only about fifteen leagues,
to which we responded, p. 373: "We think a critical examination of that petition will show that he is speaking of the
claim of Martinez and his associates as amounting in all to
about fifteen leagues, and not of his own claim under the
grant." As this is again presented to us as a reason for a rehearing in this case, we will give a little more attention to it
than its importance deserves.
After the grant was made to Beaubien and Miranda, on
January 11, 1841, Cornelio Vigil, on the 22d day of February,
18413, as justice of the peace, delivered the juridical possession, of which we have already spoken, to the grantees. The
petition of Charles Beaubien to the then governor of New
Mexico, who appears to have been some person other than
Armijo, the original grantor, is dated April 13, 1844. It was
designed to obtain a revocation of an order made by the then
governor, February 27, 18-4, permitting Martinez to use and
occupy a part of the land included within the grant by Armijo
to Beaubien and Miranda. The whole matter is very imperfectly stated, but it would seem that Martinez, in his petition
asking for this order, asserted that the grant to Mr. Charles
Bent, which was prior in time to that to Beaubien and
Miranda, included the land which he and his associates desired
to use, and which he had purchased of Bent. It will be readily seen by any one, even through the bad translation of the
language of Beaubien, that he is endeavoring to show that the
grant to Bent could not include any of the land within his
own grant. He says on that subject: "I have been prevented

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

from carrying those projects into effect," (meaning the making
of settlements upon his grant,) "on account of the decree of'
the 27th of February last, issued by your excellency, and
which, through your secretary, was communicated. to the prefecture of the first district, in order that paying attention to
-the petition addressed to your excellency by the curate Martinez and others in reference to the grant of lands made to the
citizen of the United States,.Mr. Charles Bent, and that all use
made of them be suspended, I have to state to your excellency,
in defence of those lands which are in our possession, according to the titles thereto, which are in our possession, that the
petition addressed to your excellency by the curate Martinez
and others is founded upon an erroneous principle, as the
aforesaid Mr. Bent has not acquired any right to the said
lands. It is therefore very strange that the curate Martinez,
and others pretend to, involve our property,'as it has no connection with that of that individual; therefore, it is to be presumed, the necessary conisequence must be, that the curate
Martinez and his associates do not know to whom those lands
belong, nor their extent, as he states that a large number *of
leagues were granted, when *thegrant does not exceed fifteen
or eighteen, which will be seen by the accompanying judicial
certificates."
He then goes on to show other errors and mistakes in the
claim of M artinez and his associates, on account of which he
appeals to the governor, who referred the matter to the
Departmental Assembly, and that body recommended the
revocation of the*order in favor of Martinez, to which the
governor conformed.
We think it impossible for anybody, after reading this statement, with any just conception of the facts to which it related,
to believe that Beaubien, in referring to the fifteen or eighteen
leagues, meant his own grant and not the grant to Charles
Bent, under which the curate M artinez was claiming. It
would be an absurdity to suppose that Beaubien, claming a
grant whose boundaries, described by rivers, mountains and
uplands, must have contained more than a million of acres, to
whom juridical possession had been delivered and the report

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

-of it made about a year before these proceedings, could have
intended to make to any public authority a statement which
must be referred to the Departmental Assembly composed of
*the representatives of the territory, that his grant only included fifteen or eighteen leagues. This fact, concurring with
the grammatical construction of the language used, the meaning of which can be plainly perceived through what is, perhaps,
a very imperfect translation, leaves no doubt now in our minds
after a thorough examination, that the statement of the opin-

ion was correct.

There-is a reference in the part of the petition for a rehearing which wa prepared in thd office of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, to the existence of new and material
evidence touching the fraudulent character of the grant, vhich
we must suppose to have been addressed to the Secretary of
the Interior and the Attorney General as-reasons for obtaining
a new trial it they could, and not addressed to t1his court as
any legal foundation for reconsidering its decision. -If- this
court should grant a rehearing it could only be had, accoirling to the uniform course of the court during its whole existence, upon the record now before the court as it came from
the Circuit Court for the District of Colorado,
I We have thus considered all the points suggested in the petition as grounds for rehearing with the utmost care. The
cas-e itsblf has been pending in the courts of the United States
since August, 1882,. and, on account of its importance, was
advanced out of its order for hearing in this court. The arguments on both sides of the case were unrestricted in point of
time, and were wanting in no element of ability, industrious
research, or clear apprehension of the principles involved in it.
The court was thoroughly impressed with the importance of
the case, not only as regarded the extent of the grant-and its
value, but also on account of its involving principles which
will become precedents in chses of a similar nature, now
rapidly increasing in number. It was, therefore, given a most
careful examination, and this petition for a rehearing has had
a similar- attentive consideration. The result is, that we are
entirely satisfied that the grant, as confirmed by the action of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Petition for Rehearing.

Congress, is a valid grant ; that the survey and the patent
issued upon it, as well as the original grant by Armijo, are entirely free from any fraud on the part of the grantees r those
claiming under them; and that the decision could be no other
than that which the learned judge of the Circuit Court below
made, and which this court affirmed.
Thepetitiofor reheai, is,
therefore, denied.

MERCHANTS'

INSURANCE

COPALNY v. ALLEN.

MERCHANTS' INSURANCE COMPANY v. WEEKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 18,1887.- Decided May 27,1887.
An owner of one-fourth interest in a vessel took out a policy of insurance
on his interest in the vessel, which contained these words: "Warrauted
by the assured that not more than $5000 insurance, including this policy,
now exists, nor shall be hereafter effected on said interest, either by
assured or others, to cover this or any other insurable, interest in said
interest, during the continuance of this policy." The acceptors of
drafts drawn by the master effected for their own protection insurance
on the freight and earnings of the vessel in excess of this amount, and
a like insurance on freight and earnings in excess was effected on
account of other owners: Held, That this was no breach of the covenant
of warranty.

Tins was a petition for rehearing a cause decided at this
term, and reported 121 U. S. 67. The petition was as follows, omitting the title and the references to the evidence:
To the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
The Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company, appellant in
the above entiled'causes, prays the court to grant a rehearing
thereof, because the court has fallen into an error of fact most
seriously affecting the rights of your petitioner.
The error of fact consists in a mistaken appreciation of the

