SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Syllabus.

BlackfQrd, 293, 295, it was said that "the breach of an express warranty is of itself a valid ground of action whether
the suit be founded on tort or on contract;" and that, "in the
action on tort, the forms 'of the declaration are, that the
defendant falsely and fraudulently warranted, &c., but the
words falsely and fraudulently, in such cases, are considered
as only matters of form." But as to the scienter, the court
said, "that is not necessary to'be laid, when there is a warranty, though thc action be in tort; or, if the scienter be laid,
in such a case, there is no necessity of proving it." See also
Hillman v. TWilcox, 30 Maine, 170; Osgood v. Lewis, 2 Ilarr.
& Gill, 495, 520; Trice v. cockran, 8 Grattan, 4412, 450; Gresham v. Postan, 2 Car. & P. 540.
As the evidence entitled the plaintiff to go to the jury upon
the issue of express warranty as to the genuineness of the
bonds and coupons, and as the jury were in effect instructed
that he could not recover, unless upon allegation and proof of
the soienter,
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded, with.
instructions to set aside the judgment and grant a new
trial.
MR. JusTwic

FIELD dissented.

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued January 17, 18, 1887. -Decided

May 23, 1887.

A person who conducts himself with reference to the general public in
such a way as to induce others, acting with reasonable caution, to
believe that he is a partner in a partnership, is liable as sucl, to a creditor of the partnership who contracted with it under such belief, altlough
he is not in fact a partner.
The defendants in error so conducted themselves towards the geueral
public, in their business relations with each other, as to juduce a shiler,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.
acting with reasonable caution, to believe that they had formed a combination in the nature of a partnership, or were engaged as joint traders,
'under the name of the Kountz Line.

THIS was a libel in admiralty and inpersonamr. The libellants were insurance companies, which issued policies covering
certain produce and merchandise delivered, May 21, 1880, on
board the steamboat Henry C. Yeager, at St. Louis, Missouri,
for transportation to the city of New Orleans and other ports
on the Mississippi River; which cargo was lost by the sinking of the boat the day succeeding its departure. from St.
Louis. The Yeager was unseaworthy, both at the commencement of her voyage and at the time of the loss. The sinking
and the loss were the direct consequence of such unseaworthiness.
The libellants having paid to the owners of the cargo the
damages sustained by them -

$31,720.10 - and having been

subrogated to all the rights and claims of the latter on account of .uch loss, brought this suit against the appellees
jointly to recover the amount so paid. In the District Court,
the attachme-.1s sued out by the libellants were discharged,
and the libel dismiss d. In the Circuit Court, it was adjudged
that there was no joint liability on the part of the respondents, or auy of them, and that liability for the loss of the
cargo was alone upon the Yeager, and her owner, The H. .
Yeager Transportation Company.

As to all the other re-

spondents, the libel was dismissed. Of that'decree the libellants complained, the principal assignment of error being that
the court erred in not holding the respondents, or some of
them, jointly liable for the loss of the cargo.
The general ground upon which this contention was placed
was that the shipment of May 21, 1880, on the Henry C.
Yeager was a part of the general business of transportation,
in which The -H.C. Yeager Transportation Company, The
C.. V. Kountz Transportation Company, The K. P. Kountz
Transportation Company, and The M. Moore Transportation Company, were jointly engaged under the name of the
"Kountz Line," and, consequently, that said companies were
jointly liable for the loss and damages in question. The de-

SUN INSURANCE CO., -v.. KOUNTZ LINE.
Statement of the Case.

cree below proceeded upon -the.ground that said companies
were not jointly engaged in business, and that the loss must
be borne entirely by the company owning the Henry C.
Yeager.

Citizens' ns. Co.. v. T7e Xountz Line, 4 Woods, 268.

The determination of the question -of'joint liability depended
upon the facts set out 'in the finding by the Circuit Court.
Those facts -preserving, in the statement of them by this'
court, substantially, the language of'.the court beloW - were
as follows:
In June, 1872, William X. Kountz, -John,W. King, W. W.,
Atex, and Charles Scudder organized, under the laws of Missouri, a corporation by the name of the Kountz Line, of ivhich
they were to be, and did become, directors for the first year.
and of which Kountz was president and King general agent.
Its capital stock was fixed at fifteen thousand dollars, divided
into shares of one hundred dollars each. The declared object
of the corporation was to build or'purchase, use or employ,
one or more wharf-boats for-the use of steamboats and other
vessels belonging to the stockholders of the company; to
build, purchase,. or charter, steamboats, towboats, etc., for
transporting freight and passengers on, the Mississippi River
and its tributaries; and do a geneial river business. It does
not appear that the Kountz Line corporation owned, at the
time of the shipment on the Yeager, or at any time during.
the year .1880, any steamboat or other water craft, except a
wharf-boat at St..Louis.
In 'a few months after the organization of that corporation,
to wit, on the 13th of November, 1872, .Kountz, King, and'
one Sheble. o ganized3 under the laws 6f Missouri, the four.
transportation companies above named, of each of which
Kountz and -King were bhosen directors, and King treasurer
and secretary. Kountz, King, and Sheble, Charles H. Seaman,
H. K. Haslitt, and W. P.-Braithwaite, having interests, as
owners, respectively, in the steamboats Henry C. Yeager,
Carrie 'V. Kountz, Katie. P. Kountz, and Mollie Moore, trans•ferred the same, by bills,of sale, as follows: The Henry C.
Yeager, to The H. C. Yeager Transportation Company; the
Carrie V. Kountz, to The CarrieV. Kountz Transportation

OCTOBER T'E

r, .1886.

Statemeut of the Case.

Company; the Katie P. Kountz, to The K. P. Kountz
Transportation Company; and the Mollie Moore, to The M.
Mooide Transportation Company; the vendors receiving, in
consideration of said transfers, stock in the respective transportation companies.
Of the stock of the Kountz Line corporation, on the 6th of
July, 1874, William J. Kountz owned two shares; King, D.
C. Brady, Iran Hook, and C. H. Seaman, one share each ,. the
steamboats John F. Tolle, Henry C. Yeager, Mollie .Moore,
and Carrie V. Kountz, thirty-six shares each. There was no
change in the ownership of such stock by those steamboats up
to the Commencemnent of this suit, except that the shares held
by the John F. To-le belonged to the steamboat J. B. A.
Kehlor, when, on September 14, 1878, the latter was transferred to The M. Moore Transportation Company. W. J.
Kountz never, at any time, owned more than two shares in
the Kountz Line corporation, and was a stockholder in all of
the transportation companies.
On the 15th of January, 1873, W. J. Kountz owned 398
shares, and KIng and Sheble each one share of the stock of
The ]M. IMoore Transportation Company. But, on December
19; 1879, the stock of that 6ompany was held as follows:
Katie P. Kountz, a daughter of W. J. Kountz, 397 shares, and
Kountz, King, and Rogers each one share. November 4,
1878, Katie P. Kountz held 241- shares, her father and King
each one share, and Braithwaite 56. shares, in The K. P.
Kountz Transportation Company. December 19, 1879, Katie
P. Kountz" held 379 shares, and her father, King, and Rogers
each one share in The H. C. Yeager Transportation Company.
On the 21st of May, 18803 of the stock of The C. V. Kountz
Transportation Company, Katie P. Kountz held 323 shares;
Clement Seaman 74 shares; and her father, King, and C. H.
Seaman each one share. No subsequent transters of stock n.
any of these companies were made, and, at the time of the
shipment -on the Yeager, "the stock in no two of said coinpanies was held by the same person."
It thus appears that, at the time of the shipment on the.
Yeager, almost all the stock of these transportation companies
stood in the name of. a daughter of William J. Kountz.

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Statement of the, Case.

It was further found by the court below, that the, steamboats 'Carrie V. Kountz, Katie P. Kountz, Henry C. Yeager,
and Mollie Moore "were employed by the respective transportation companies, to which they were conveyed, under -the
direction of the officers of said companies, in carrying freight
and passengers on the Mississippi and its tributaries," the
Kountz Line corporation being the "common agent" of said
companies, and charging the latter "for the services rendered
to them respectively, from one hundred to one hundred aud
fifty dollars per trip." Its office, as well as the business
offices of the transportation companies, was in the same
room on its wharf-boat at St. Louis. It- the Kountz Line
corporation -collected the dues of the transportation companies, keeping a separate account with each, and paying to
each the earnings of its own steamboat. By means of advertisements in newspapers, placards, hand bills, and cards, the
Kountz Line corporation advertised the "Kountz Line," setting forth the advantages offered by the boats of that line,
their low rates of freight, &c., and "announced that it was
ready to contract for the carrying of goods and passengers by
the Kountz Line boats." In those advertisements, placards,
and hand bills, usually one, but sometimes two or more of the
boats belonging to the transportation companies were mentioned "as belonging to said Kountz Line." The Kountz
Line corporation made out bills of freight upon blanks
headed "Kountz Line, St. Louis and New Orleans Packet."
the bills being "in the name of the particular steamboat to
which the freight was due, and the dray tickets of shippers
indicating on what boat the goods were to be shipped." The
bills of lading were usually signed "JJohni W. King, ag't
Kountz Line,'St. Louis," the signature thereto being made by
a stamp; but the bills were somethnes signed by the clerk of
the steamboat on which the goods were shipped. Some of
the I Is of lading for the produce and mnerchandise shipped
May 21, 1880, on the Yeager, recited "that the same were
received from John W. King on board the steamboat Heliry
C.Yeager, to be delivered to the consignee at New Orleans.
Dh witness whereof, the master, clerk, or agent of said boat
-

588 ,

OCTOBER TER4, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

Lath affirmed to three bills of lading," &c., and were signed,
some of them, "John W. King, ag't Kountz Line, St. Louis,"
and'some by E.B. McPherson, clerk. Others of said bills of
fading recited the shipping of produce by other shippers on
board the Hlenry C. Yeager, and were signed by King in the
manner, aforesaid, and others by E,. B. McPherson, clerk.
In order that the boats belonging to said transportation
companies might have freight, the Kountz Line corporation.
sometimes purchased produce and merchandise for the purpose
of its being shipped upon them, the sum paid for such produce
and merchandise being charged to the particular company in
whose interest the. purchase was made. The goods so purchased were usually bought and paid for'by the Kountz Line
corporation. Against such shipmexits it made drafts, in its
6wn name, on th6 consignees. All moneys, whether receivedfor freight, carried by said several steamboats or for goods
shipped and sold for their account, were remitted to Wm.J.
Kountz or John W. King, as the agents of *said Kountz Line,
the cost of the goods being charged to the individual boat on
which they were shipped.. After deducting costs and charges,
the net proceeds, although "deposited in bank to the credit of
said Kountz Line, were placed in the books of account to the
credit of the boat carrying the goods, and were her separate
profits."
The Circuit Court found that the Kountz Line and the said
transportation companies "owned no property in cominon,"
and, that "there was no community of profits or. property
between said companies, including the Kountz Line, or any
two or more of them." But it also found that "none of said
steamnboats were ever advertised by the name of the corporations that owned them," and that from the date of the incorporation of said transportation companies to the date of the
said shipment on the Henry C. Yeager, "none of said trans-portation companies ever transacted any commercial business
by their several and respective names, but the same was done
by the name of the Kountz Line, or in the name of the individual'boats belonging to said transportation cpinpanies."
Such, in substance, was the case made bj the finding of'
facts:--

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.

-589.

Argument for Appellees.

-.

Jo['n A. CampbelI and Ifr. 0. B. Sansum for appellants.

-Mr. arles B- Singleton and XrA. Richard H. Broume for
appellees.
The question presented is; Did the District and Circqit
Courts err, in refusing to hold these defendants jointly liable?
Let us take the great authority; Lindley, as to the kind of
evidence to establish and prove the existence of an alleged or
quasi-partnership, for no other sort is alleged as to these defendants.
The first is agreements in writing, and deeds showing the
right to share pr6fits.
.ddmissons, such as: advertisements, prospectuses, &c., containing the names of the alleged partners, and names over
doors and on carts; Answers in chancery containing admissi6ns; Bill, circular's, invoices, containing the names of the
alleged partners; Bills of Exchange, drafts of agreements,
letters and memoranda, showing an intention to give a share
of profits, coupled with evidence that such intention was
acted on. In what particular do the findings of the court
bring this causewithin the meaning and spirit of the evidence
here required?
There was no division of profits. This cannot be maintained, even as to the earnings of the Kountz Line, .for no
lawyer has'ever -been absurd enough to claim that the profits
divided among the 9hareholders of a corporation, according to
the shares each held, made any sort of partnership between
them.
There was no admission found by the court, either parol or
in writing. The advertisements did not name these various
transportation companies; only the boats which were the
property of the respective companies were named.
Was anybody misled or deceived by supposing that these
boats were partners? 'The earnings of each were credited to
each, and none of the others shared in them. The Kountz
Line had earnings. Its stockholders got them. If any boat
made earnings, they belonged to her (or the transportation
company which owned her) alone.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellees.

'There are a number of English cases which overrule the general principle laid down in IraugA v. Carver, 2 1. ]B1. 235: In
Cox v. Itickman, 8 H. L. Cas: 268, the case of WFaugk v.
Carver was questioned, and the ratio decidendi in that case
establishes that it does not contain a correct statement of the law
of England. The learned editor of the 5th edition of Story
on Partnership, § 417, note 2, referring to TFaugh v. Carver,
declares that the doctrine of that case, after being disapproved by all text writers, reluctantly followed by courts, and
brokcen in upon by "subtle exceptions and limitations, has
been finally overthrown in England,"
.
.
and adds,
" perhaps. there .is no other instance in commercial law w+here
so many confessedly hard decisions have been based on so
obvious a fallacy."
Lindley, in commenting upon the recent decisions Iolme v.
HUammond, L. R. 7, Ex. 218; Afoliwo, Afaiel & Co. v. Court
of Wards, L. R. 4, P. 'C. 419, and others, says, at page 42, ed.
of 1881, "the strong tendency of the above decisions is to
establish the doctrine that no person who does not hold himself out as a partner is liable to third persons for the acts of
persons whose profits he shares, unless he and they are really
partners inter se; and it is, perhaps, not going too far to say
that this is now the law."
But the libellants may say, we admit there was no joint
property, no joint fund, no joint losses, no joint profiti, no
arrangement to share loss or profit, yet you held yourselves
out as partners in this carrying trade, and therefore you are
jointly liable as you had a common agent, a-common office,
and employed these boats as the Kountz Line.
3ow, the Kountz Line was simply the name of the agent
of all these transportation companies or boats, It was a corporate body and had a corporate name, and took no part in
the business carried on, except to do the business for each of
th6 boats, keepinu g the accounts and profits of each separate
and'distinct. It was a designation.
It is true that Kountz and King were the president and secretary, respectively, of the Kountz Line, and were the officers
likewise, when the loss occurred, of the several transportation

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Argument for Appellees.

companies, but we know of no reason in law or morals why
the same persons may not be the executive .officers of two or
more corporations at the same time, nor why the acts done by
them for the benefit of one corporation should not enure
solely to the benefit of that corporation, and not to the others.
They did not represent the same interests, when they acted
for the Kountz Line, as they did when they acted for the M.
Moore Transportation Company, nor did they represent the
H. C. Yeager Transportation Company when they bought
goods to make freight for the K. P. Kountz Transportation
Company, for the fact is found by the Circuit Court, that "the
stock in no two of said companies was held by the same persons."
It seems a strange conclusion to say, that boats running
under a common name, "Green Line," for example, although
in a common trade, should be held to constitute a partnership,
when their business was kept entirely distinct, as it was in
'this case.
There are cases very analogous to the one under consideration, though not entirely parallel in all respects; but they are
so nearly the same, that they go far to sustain the District
and Circuit Courts in their conclusions of law. See -1/ino
o
Central JaibroadV.
v.2Jiwin,
Ill. 452; Briggs v. Fanderbilt,
19 Barb. 222; -Bonsteel v. Vander'bldt, 21 Barb. 26.
But we say, also, that there wds no evidence offered in this
cause, fior any finding to the effect, that the shippers of the
goos insured, or the libellants who insured them, ever were
misled by any representations of the IKountz Line, or 'any of
these transportationvcompanies.
There was not a scintilla of evidence to show that either or
any of the shippers ever considered or were induced to believe
that there was any partnership in the matter. There was not
a word of testimony to show that there were ary considera
tions inducing any one of them to ship on the Henry C. Yeager, because she was advertised as belonging to the Kountz
Line. There was no support to the position that they were
induced to ship, or trust, or rely upon the .Kountz Line as a
partnership, nor to show that any credit was given by them

592

OCTGBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appeiecs.

on that account. Nor that these insurance companies ever
insured on that account. "It-was a pure afterthought.
,Besides, these shippers knew that they were shipping by a
particular boat -the HenryC. Yeager. Their dray receipts
showed this. In addition-to that, their bills of lading showed
what boat the goods were shipped on.. Their insurance was
on goods on a particular boat. Everything was patent to
*them, and to every one of them; that it was the steamboat
Henry C. Yeager with which they were dealing; and we
repeat that none of these libellants have ever indirectly shown
*that they were moved by such considerations, as are ingeniously sugge~ted in the briefs on file.
What credits we.re given, what contracts made by these
parties, upon the assumption that these boats constituted a
partnership, or that the transportIation companies were liable
for the freight contracts made by each other, or by their
boats, or the Kountz Line their agent?
Where a party holds himself out as a partner, and thereby
procures credit upon the strength of his proposed relation, be
is, on principles of natural justice, held to be such partner. The transportation companies did not lend their names
to the Kountz Line. They did not hold themselves out as
partners in the Kountz Line. They obtained no credit upon
the strength of such relation. Nor did the Kountz Line hold
these transportation companies out as partners. Neither the
names of the transportation companies, nor those of all the
boats, were put on the advertisements, but simply one boat
was usually advertised at any ond time, as belonging to the
Kountz Line, though sometimes two or more were.
The real ground on which liability is incurred by holding
one's self out as a partner, is, that credit has been thereby
obtained. 1 Lindley on Partnerships, 49, ed. of 1881. Trompson v. Ban qf Toledo, 111 U. S. 529.
Lord Wensleydale, in Dickinson v. Tahpey, 10 B. & 0. 128,
puts it with great clearness: "If it could have been proved
that the defendant had held himself out to be a partner, not
to the world, for that is a loose expression, but to the plaintiff
*himself, 'or under such circumstances of publicity as to satisfy

SUN INSURANCE CO: v. KOUNTZ LINE.

5"93

Opinion of the Court.

a jury that the plaintiff knew of it, aid believed him to be a
partner, he would be liable to the plaintiff in all transactions
in which he engaged, and gave credit to the defendant, upon
the faith of his being such partner."
The law, as declared in this country, is very clearly summed
up in § 169 of Hutchison on Carriers ed. of 1879. See City
of -orwici, 118 -U. S. 468.
MR. JUSTICE HAMLAN, after stating the case as above reported,'

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not claimed that the four transportation .companies,
organized in i872, can be held jointly liable for the loss of the
produce and merchandise shipped on the Yeager by reason of
their being, in fact, partners, having a right- to participate in
the plrofits of the business conducted by and in the name of
the "Kountz Line." They did not share or agree to share
the profits or to divide the losses of that business, as a unlit.
On the other hand, it is not disputed that, according to well
settled principles 6f law, a person not a partner or joint trader
may, under some circumstances, be held liable as if he were,
in fact, a partner or joint trader. "Where the parties, are not
in reality partners," says Story, "but are held out to th&
world as such in transactions affecting third persons," they
will be held to be partners as to such persons. Story's Part.
§ 64. And in Gow on Partnership (p. 4) it is laid down as an
undeniable proposition, that "persons appearing ostensibly as
joini, traders are to be recognized and treated as partners,
whatever may be the nature of the agreement under which
they act, or whatever motive or inducement may prompt them
to such an exhibition." And so it was adjudged in Wauglh v.
Carver, 2 H. Bl. 235, 246, where it was said by Lord Chief
Justice Eyre, that if one will lend his name as a partner he
becomes, as against all the world, a partner, "not upon the
ground of the real transaction between them, but upon principles of general policy to prevent the frauds to which creditors
would be liable." We do not mean to say that such liability
exists in every case where the person sought to be charged
VOL. cx-xu-38

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opiniofi of the Court.

holds himself out as a partner or joint trader with others.
The qualifications of the general rule are recognized in TAompson v. First lVNtionaZ Bank of Toledo, 111 U. S. 529, B36,
where it was held, upon full consider.ation, that "a person
who is not in fact a partner, who has no interest in the business of the partnership, and does not share in its profits, and
is sought to be charged for its debts because of having held
himself out, or permitted himself to be held out, as a partner,
cannot be made liable upon contracts of the partnership,
except with those who have contracted with the partnership
upon the faith of such partneiship." At the same time, the
court observed that there may be cases in which the holding
out has been so public and so long continued as to justify the
inference, as matter of fact, that one dealing with the partnership knew it and -relied upon it, without direct testimony to
that effect.
As there is no evidence of any direct representation by
these transportation companies, or any of them, to the shippers of the cargo in question, as to their relations in business
with each other, or as to their relations respectively with the
Kountz Line corporation, or the Kountz Line, the inquiry in
this case must be whether they so conducted themselves, with
reference to the generar public, -as to induce a shipper, acting
with reasonable caution, to believe that they had formed a
combination in the nature of a partnership, or were engaged
as joint traders, under the name of the Kountz Line.
In our judgment, this question must be answered in the
affirmative. It could not, we think, be otherwise answered,
consistently with the inferences which the facts reasonably
justify.
The finding of facts, as we have seen, shows that the
steamboats Henry C. Yeager, Katie P. Kountz, Carrie V.
Kountz, and Mollie Moore were employed in the business of
transporting freights and passengers on the Mississippi and
its tributaries. They were placed by their owners, or were
permitted by their owners to be placed, before the public as
being engaged in the same trade, and as constituting, together,
the "Kountz 'Line ."
They had a common agent, which was

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Opinion of the Court.

invested with, or was permitted during a series of years to
exercise, unlimited authority in their general management;
and in respect to rates of transportation. That agent - the
Kountz Line corporation -with the knowledge of the fransportation companies, publicly announced that it was ready
to contract for the carrying of goods and produce by the
"Kountz Line boats." We say this was done with the
knowledge of the owners of the boats, because the persons
conducting the entire business of the Kountz Line boats were
officers, with plenary authority of the transportation -companies and of the Kountz Line corporation. The court below
finds that the transportation companies used and employed
their several boats in carrying freight and passengers on the
Mississippi River and its tributaries. But with the intent, or
with the effect, to mislead shippers, they took care, never, by
their respective corporate names, to make, or to allow others
in their behalf to make, any contracts, or to enter into any
engagements, touching such business. It is expressly found
that, during the whole period from the organization, on the
same day, in the year 1872, to the date of the shipment on
the Yeager in 1880- a period of nearly eight years --- they
did not transact any commercial business whatever, by their
respective corporate names. They severally empowered or
permitted the Kountz Line corporation, their common agent,
to do business for them, using, in their discretion, when making transportation contracts, either the name of the Kountz
Line, composed of all the companies, or the names of the
respective boats of that line. In no instance was business
transacted by the Kountz Line corporation, as 'reffesenting
thej articular transportation conmawy owning the boat on
which the shipment was made. Those companies, therefore,
stood before the world as having united for the purpose of
engaging, in the same trade, .under the name and style of
the Kountz Line, having a common agent-the Kountz Line
corporation -fully authorized to represent them, and each
of them, in respect to matters connected with such business.
They held themselves out as united in a joint enterprise,
under the name of the Kountz Line, and they are jointly

OCTOBER. TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

liable for the defaulf or negligence of those placed in charge
of any of the boats of that line. That the transportation
companies owned no property in common, and that each was
entitled, as between it and the others, to receive the net earningn of its own boat, is immaterial in view of the fact that
they held themselves out, or permitted themselves to be held
out, as jointly engaged in the business of transporting freights
and passengers, in the same trade, on the Mississippi and its
tributaries. So far as the public was concerned, that which
was done by their ommon agent, the KountzLine corporation,
in the prosecution of the business of the several boats constituting the Kountz Line, is substantially what would have been
dQne had the transportation companies entered into a formal
aggreement to conduct the transportation business, jointly,
under the name of the. "Kountz Line," through an agent
having full authority to represent that line, and the several
boats composing it, in the making of contracts with shippers.
The latter had the right to infer, from all the circuistances,
that the boats, constituting that line, were jointly engaged in
such business.
As there is no serious conflict in the adjudged cases as to the
general propositions of law to which we have referred, it
would serve no useful purpose to review the authorities to
which our attention is invited by counsel. Whether, in a particular case, there has been such a "holding out" as to create
joint liability, must always depend upon its special facts. No
one of the cases cited resembles the one before us in its facts.
This case seems to be unlike any found in the books, in the
peculiar relations existing between these transportation companies, the Kountz Line corporation, and .the stockholders of
each of them. We decide nothing more than that, under the
facts of this case, The H. 0. Yeager Transportation Company,
The K. P. Kountz Transportation Company, The Carrie V.
Kountz Transportation Company, and The M. Moore Transportation Company, were and are jointly liable for the loss of
the produce and merchandise shipped May 21, 1880,'on the
steamboat Henry C. Yeager. The Circuit Court erred in not
so adjudging.

DENVER, &c., "RAILWAY v. HARRIS.
Syllabus.

The decree i8 reverec,. and te cause is remanded, with
directions to that coupt to set aside. all orders inconsistent
with, and to enter such orders and decree as may be in conformity to, te prinipe8 of this #iion.
MR: TusTiC GRAY, not having heard the whole argument,
took 34a.part in this decision.
On the same day, (May 27, 1887,) on an application made on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, the court ordered that the mandate
in this case be stayed, and leave be granted to file a petition for a
rehearing.

DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILWAY.v. HARRIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
Argued May 5, 1887.-Dectded May 27,1881.

If a claimant of real estate, out of possession, resorts to force and violence
amounting to a breach of the peace to obtain possession from another
claimant who is in peaceable possession, and personal injury arises
thereupon to the latter, the party using such force and violence is liable
in damages for the injury without regard to the legal title, or to the
right of possession.
Iron Mountain and Helena .ailroad v. Jolnson, 119 U. S. 608, affirmed and
applied.
A corporation is liable for civiliter torts committed by its servants and
agents done by its authority, whether express or implied.
In trespass on the case to recover for- injuries caused by gunshot
wounds ingicted by defendant's servants, evidence of the loss of
power to have offspring, resulting directly and proximately from the
nature of the wound, may be received and considered by the jury,
although the declaration does not specify such loss as one of the results
of the wound.
In an action of trespass on the case against a corporation to recover damages for injuries inflicted by its servants in a forcible and violent
seizure of a railroad, punitive damages, within the sum claimed in the
.declaration, may be awarded by the jury, if it apnears to their satisfaction that the defendant's officers and servants, in the illegal assault

