BULLARD v.. DES MOINES RAILROAD.

167

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

BULLARD v. DES kMOTMES. AND FORT DODGE
RAILROAD.
ERROR TO THE

UPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

Argued ]Iay 4, 1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

The joint resolution of the two Houses of Congress of March 2, 1861, 12
Stat. 251, relinquishing to the State of Iowa certain lands alh g the Des
Moines River'aboib the mouth of Raccoon Fork, did not operate tQ terminate the withdrawal of all the lands on that river above Raccoon Fork
from entry and pregmption which was originally made in 1850, and which
was continued in force from that time and of which renewed notice was
given in May, 1860: that resolution was only a congressional recognition
of the title, which had passed to grantees of the State of Iowa, to lands
certified to the State underthe act of 1846, which certificates had been
held by this court in Dubuque & Pacific Railroadv. Litchfield, 23 How. 66,
to have been issued without authority of law.

Ix equity, in a state court of Iowa, to quiet title to land.
The complaint set up a pregmption title. The respondent
claimed under the act of July 12, 1862, 12 Stat. 543. The bill
was dismissed, and on appeal the decree was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the state. The complainant sued out this
writ of erro. The case is stated in the opinion of the court..
2_3r. Edward Fitck Bullard, plaintiff in error, in person
cited: Wolcott v. -Dec .Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681; -DubuqUe &
Sioux City Railroadv. -Des2oines ValleVy Railroad,109 U. S.
629; Doe v. .Niciols, 1 B. & 0. 336; Crilley v. Burrows, 17
Wall 167, more fully reported in the Letter of the Register of
Iowa to the governor of that state in November, 1873; Hand
v. Newton, 92 N. Y. 88; Homestead Co. v. Valley Rdilroad,17
Wall. 153; Williams v.Baker, 17 Wall. 144; Bellows V.Todd,
34 Iowa, 18; United Stare8 v. Schurz, 102 U. S.378; Clements
v. Warner, 24 How. 394; Terry v. Afegerle, 24 Cal. 609 [S. C.
85 Am. Dec. 84]; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S.276; Me2pey v.
Cowan, 01 U. S. 330; IVitherspoonv. Dunman, 4 Wall. 210; Lytle
v. Arkansa, 9 How. 314; Frisbie v. TWitney, 9 Wall. 187;

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Wirtl v. Branson, 98 U. S. 118; Simmons v. Wagner, 101
U. S. 260; Duryee v. .Aayor, 96 N. Y. 477; Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755; Ryan v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 382;
Platt vj Union Pacific Railroad,99 U. S. 48; Cromwell v.
Sac County, 94 UT. S. 351; Weed v. Tucker, 19 N. Y. 422;
People v. Davenport, 91 N. Y. 574; People v. Lacombe, 99
N. Y. 43; Slidell v. Cranjean,111 U. S. 412; Rice v. Sioux
City, &c., Railroad, 110 U. S. 695; Johnson v. Towsley, 13
Wall. 72: -Tewhall v. Sanger, 91 U. S. 761; Leavenworth, &c.,
Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Xongeon, v. People,
55 N. Y. 613; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; French v.
Fyan, 93 U. S. 169, 172; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447,
451; Bhrhardtv. Hogeboom, 115 U. S. 67; Lee v. Johnson, 116
U. S. 48; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Bicknell
v. Comstock, 113 1U. S.149; United States v. Fitzgerald, 15
Pet. 407; Cummings v. . owne, 61 Iowa, 385; Cross v. The
B. & S. WF R. Co., 51 Iowa, 683; Smith v. Peple, 47 N. Y.
330; Harlem Railroadv. Yip,46 N. Y. 546; Perrinev. Chesapeake & Delaware Canal, 9 How. 172 , Hart v. Kleis, 8
Johns. 41; Wendell v. Van Rensselaer, 1 Johns. Oh. 344.
.Jb. J. F. Duncombe for defendants in error submitted on
his brief, citing: Wolcott v. Des loines Co., 5 Wall. 681;
Reilly v. Wells, not reported; Homestead Co. v. .Valley Railroad Co., 17- Wall. 153; Williams v. Baker, 17 Wall. 144;
Bellows v. Todd, 34 Iowa, 19; Dubuque & Sioux City Railroad v. Des foines Valley Railroad,54 Iowa, 89; Railroad
Co. v. Fremont County, 9 Wall. 89; Railroad Co. v. Smith,
9 Wall. 95; Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 75; Dubuque, &c.,
Railroad v. Des .foines Valley Railroad,109 U. S.329, 334.
M..

5tTmcE MnLLF. delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the state of
Iowa.
The case originated in a suit in equit:, brought in the District Court of that state for the county of Humbolt by Edward F. Bullard, who is the appellant here. The. object of the

BULLARD v. DES MOINES RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

bill was to quiet or remove clouds upon the title of the plaintiff to certain lands in that state, to which the defendant filed
an answer and cross-bill, asking that its own title might be
declared to be good and established by the decree of the court.
The District Court of that county made a decree in favor of
the defendant, which-on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
state was affirmed.
There were many questions considered in the state courts of
which this court can take no jurisdiction. 'But the n .in question raised there, and the only one here, has relation to a subject which has been often considered by this court. It arises
out of what is called the Des Moines River Land Grant, which
was originally made by the Congress of the United States to
the then territory of Iowa. A 'short history of the matters
growing out of that grant, with some references t6 the decisions
of this court, will simplify the complex record presented in this
case.
By the act of Congress of August 8, 1846, 9 Stat. 77, there
was "granted to the territory of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding said territory to improve the navigation of the Des Moines
River from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork, (so called,) in said
territory, one equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public
lands, (remaining unsold, and not otherwise disposed of, encumbered, or appropriated,) in a strip five miles in width on
each side of said river; to be selected within said territory by
an agent or agents to be appointed by the governor thereof,
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States."
Soon after the passage of this statute the state of Iowa created - Board of Public Works, to take charge of this river improvement, under a system of slack water navigation on that
stream. The contract for the execution of the work came into
the hands of a corporation called The Des Moines Navigation
Company. The work progressed for a number of years, several dams and locks being built from the mouth of the river
upwards, the means for paying the contractors coming solely
from the sales of the lands granted to the state for that purpose. These lands, as the work went on and the money was

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

needed, were certified to the state by the Secretary of the
Treasury, and by it either sold to purchasers or conveyed to
the contractors who did the work. The state made no appropriations and furnished no means from any other source than
this for the prosecution of the enterprise.
.. So long as no request on the part of the state for the certification of lands lying above the mouth of the Raccoon Fork
was made of the Secretary of the Treasury, no question arose
as to the extent of the grant. Afterwards, however, when a
demand was made upon that officer that such lands should be
certified, he objected on the ground that the grant of lands did
not extend beyond that point; that, as..y the language of the
statute making the grant it was "for the improvement of the
Des Moines River from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork." it
was not intended to grant lands lying above that point, although the same river ran through the entire length of the
state, from near its northwestern corner in the territory of
Minnesota to the southeast corner, where it flows into the
Mississippi River.
This question became the subject of active negotiations and
controversy between the state of Iowa, through its governor
and members of Congress, and the Treasury Department, as
well as the Interior Department, which was created during
this time and succeeded to the charge of this subject. Meanwhile one of the secretaries certified to the state a part of the
land in dispute, running to a certain range of townships above
the Raccoon Fork. It may as well be stated here that the
lands now in controversy were not among the lands so certiBied, but are among the odd sections lying north of those thus
certified and within five miles of the Des Moines River.
On April 6, 1850, Secretary Ewing, while concurring with
Attorney General Crittenden in his opinion that the grant of
1846 did not extend above the Raccoon Fork, issued an order
withholding all the lands then in controversy from market
"until the close of the then session of Congress," which order
has been continued ever since, in order to give the state the
opportunity of petitioning for an extension of the grant by
Congress. This court has decided in a number of cases, in re-

BULLARD v.. DES- MOINES RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

gard to these lands, that this withdrawal operated to exclude
from sale, purchase, or preemption all the lands in controversy, and unless the case we are about to consider constitutes
an exception, it has never been revoked.
In 1856 Congress granted to the state of Iowa, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of several railroads across that
state from the Mississippi to the Missouri River, every alternate
section, as shown by odd numbers, of the lands on each side
of said roads, each of which, when the lifie was fixed, crossed
the Des A[Qines River and ran through the lands which the
state claimed had been granted to it for the purpose of haproving the-navigation of that stream.
Pending this controversy between the state of Iowa and the
authorities of the United States as to the extent of the grant, a
suit was brought by one of these railroad companies, that the
question might be decided by this court. The case is reported
as the -Dubulvq & Paci§cRailroad Co. v. Lichfeld, 23 How.
66, decided in 1860, and it was held that the grant did not
extend above the Raccoon Fork. As soon as this decision was
made, the state, through its congressional delegation, sought
the action of the Congress of the United States to obtain the
passage of an act, which would secure the grant to the state
and its grantees in the full extent which they believed Con-*
gress had originally intended by the act of 1846. That the
propriety of some action by Congress, and the demand for it
was pressing, is obvious, when we consider that the Des
Moines Navigation Company, under contract with the state,
had spent large sums of money beyond what they had received
from the state, and, beyond the value of the lands certified to
the state by the Secretary. The work, with all the materials
and implements on hand, was suspended, and the danger of
the works being swept away and ruined by floods in the river
was imminent. The whole subject was before Congress, but,
without waiting to dispose of it entirely, that body, by way
of immediate relief, passed the following joint resolution, approved March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 251.
"That all the title which the United States still retain in
the tracts of land along the Des Moines River, and above the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opiuion 6f the Court.

mouth of the Raccoon Fork thereof, in the state of Iowa,
which have been certified to said state improperly by the Department of the Interior, as part of the grant by act of Congress approved August eight, eighteen hundred and forty-six,
and which is now held: by botfiw e purchasers under the state
of Iowa, be, and the same is hereby, relinquished to the state
of Iowa."
At the next session of Congress a statute was passed, approved July 12, 1862, which provided as follows:
"That the grant of lands to the then territory of Iowa for
the improvement of the Des Moines River made by the act of
August eight, eighteen hundred and forty-six, ig hereby extended so as to include the alternate sections (designated by
odd numbers) lying within five miles of said river, between the
Raccoon Fork and the northern boundary of said state; such
lands are to be held andapplied in accordance with the provisions of the.original grant, except that the consent of Congress
is hereby given to the application of a portion thereof to aid
in the construction of the Keokuk, Fort Des Moines, and Minnesota railroad, in accordance with the provisions of the act of
the General Assembly of the state of Iowa, approved March
twenty-two, eighteen hundred and fifty-eight." 12 Stat. 543.
By this joint resolution and this act of Congress the United
States relieved so far as it could the misfortune of the con-,
struction of the grant to the te:-ritory of Iowa of 1846, made
by this court, and ratified the construction which had always
been claimed by the state.
During all this controversy there remained the order of the
Departgient having control of the matter, withdrawing all the
lands in dispute from public sale, settlement or preemption.
This withdrawal was held to be effectual against the grant
made by Congress to the railroad companies in 1856, because
that &ctc.ntained the following proviso:
"That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United
States, by any act -of Congress, or in any other manner by
competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object
of internal improvement, or for any other purpose whatsoever,
be, and the same are hereby, reserved1 to the United States

BULLARD v.. DES MOINES RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

from the operation of this act, except so far as it may be
found necessary to locate the routes of -said railroads through
such reserved lands, in which case the right of way only shall
be granted, subject to the approval of the President ot the
United States." 11 Stat. 9.
See Wolcott v. .Des .Afoines Co., 5 Wall. 681, and Williams v.
Baker, 17 Wall. 144, in which cases is also to be found a very
full and clear recital of the history of this Des Moines grant
controversy.
In May, 1860, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
sent to the registers and receivers of that office at Des Moines
and Fort Dodge the following printed notice:
"Notice is hereby given that the land along the Des Moines
River, in Iowa, within the claimed limits of the Des Moines
grant, in that state, above the mouth of the Raccoon Fork of
said river, which has been reserved from sale heretofore o.account of the claim of the state thereto, will continue resetved,
for the time being, from sale or from location, by any species
of scrip or warrants, notwithstanding the recent decision of
the Supreme Court against the claim. This action is deemed
necessary to afford time for Congress to consider, upon memorial or otherwise, the case. of actual bona fide settlers hold-'
ing under titles from the state, and 'to make such provision,
by confirm ationh or adjustment of the claims of such settlers,
as may appear to be right and proper.
"JOHN S. WILsoN,

"Commissioner of the Gen. Land Ofwice.
"Gen, Land Office, May 18, 1860."
It will thus be seen that, notwithstanding the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States in the winter of 1860,
the land office determined that the reservation of these 1nds
should continue for the purpose of securing the very action by
Congress which the state of Iowa was soliciting, and it is not
disputed by counsel for the appellant in this case that this tvas
a valid continuation of such reservation and that during its
continuance the pre~mptions under which the plaintiff claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

could not have been made. But it is argued that the joint
resolution of 1861 terminated this condition of suspense, and
in and of itself ended the withdrawal of these lands which
had been established'and continued since the controvesy' originated between the state and the Federal government as to the
extent of the grant. This is the only foundation on* which
plaintiff's title to the land in controversy in this case rests.
We do not think the joint resolution had the effect to end
the reservation of these lands from public entry. Whether
we consider the purpose of the original order, its long continuance, and that it has been held, in the face of an act of
Congress granting lands for public purposes to the railroads
already mentioned, to constitute such a withdrawal as that act
excepts from the-operations of the grant, and that up to the
present time no preemptions or sales have been finally recognized as valid by the Department or by the courts, it would
be very extraordinary if the joint resolution should have that
effect. It does not purport to act upon all the matters which
were in controversy between-the state and the general government. It certainly did not act upon all the. claims and matters in question then pending before Congress in regard to
these lands. It -was, indeed, a very limited disposition of a
part of the matter which Congress supposed might then be
acted upon with safety without further investigation. Itwas
simply the recognition of the title which had passed to the
grantees of the state of Iowa in regard to the lands which
had been certified by the proper authorities of the general
government to the-state under the act of 1846, and which, by
the decision in _Dubitqu & Paefic Railroad v. Litc ld,
had been held to be unwarranted by the statute. Congress,
urgently- pressed by parties who were innocent purchasers
under the state, passed the resolution which went to this extent, in the last days of the session, securing to such purehasers,
so far as the United States could do so, their title to the lands
that they had bought-under the sanction of this action of the
Deparment.,
The broader and larger question of the title to ,the lands
within five miles of- the Des MiIoines .hier, above Raecoon

BULLARD -r, DES MOINES RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

Fork, which had not been certified to the state, and which
.were declared by the decision of _Dubuque & Pacifto Railroad
v. Zitchfield not to be included within the grant of 1846, Congress retained for further consideration, and, at its next session
after this joint resolution was passed, it completely disposed of
the whole subject, so far as it was within its power to do so,
-by validating the grant of 1846 to the full extent of the construction claimed by the state of Iowa. If the order of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office of May -18, 1860,
was in force up to the passage of the joint resolution, it is not
possible to perceive why it terminated then. It was declared
Ly the Commissioner that the order or notice was made to
prbtect these lands from location by any species of scrip or
warrant, notwithstanding the decision of the Supreme Court
to afford time for Congress to further consider the case.
This is not the way in which a reservation from. sale or preemption of public lands is removed. In almost every instance,
in which such a reservation is terminated, there has been a
proclamation by the President that the lands are open for
entry or sale, and in most instances they have first been offered
for sale at public auction. It cannot be seen, from anything
in the joint resolution, that Congress either considered the controversy ended or intendedtQ remove the reservation instituted'
by the Department. Itsimmediate procedure at the next session to the full consideration of the whole subject shows that
it had not ceased to deal with it; that the reason for this
withdrawal or reservation continued as strongly as before, and
it cannot be doubted that the subject was before Congress, as
well as before its committees, and that the act of July 12,
1862, was, for. the first time, a conclusion and end of the
matter so far as Congress was concerned.
The title of the plaintiff, therefore, rests upon settlements
upon odd sections of. land within five miles of the Des Moines
River, which were reserved from sale or pregmption at the time
the settlements were made. Two of the settlements, which
are the foundation of plaintff's title, were made in May, 1862,
only a few days before the passage of the act of July in the
same year; and one of the settlements under -which the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1866.
Syllabus.

tiff claims was made after. the passage of that act. The title
was transferred by that act to the state of Iowa for the original purposes of the grant of 1846.
The object of this bill is to have a declarat" -nof the court
that the title of the plaintiff under those sett- %entsand preemptions is superior to the title conferred by Congrest on the
state of Iowa and her grantees under the act of July 12, 1862.
If the lands were at the time of these settlements and pre.emption declarations effectually withdrawn from- settlement,
sale, or preemption, by the orders of the Department, which
we have considered, there is an end of the plaintiff's title, for
by that withdrawal or reservation the lands were reserved for
another purpose, to which they were ultimately appropriated
by the act of 1862, and no title could be initiated or established,
because the Land Department had no right to grant it. This
proposition, which we have fully discussed, will be found supported by the following decisions, which are decisive of the
whole controversy. Dubuque & Pacifo Railroadv. Litchjeld,
23 How. 66; Wolcott v. Des 1oilones Co., 5 Wall. 681; Homestead Co. v. "Valley Railroad,17 Wall. 153; Williams v. Baker
and Cedar Rapids Railroadv. Des -foines Ncavigation Co., 17
Wall. 144; TF-olsey v. Chapman, 101 U.- S. 755; Dubuque &
Sioux City Railroad v. Des foines Valley Railroad, 109
U. S. 329, 334.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the state of Iowa,
founded on the same.view of the subject as above set forth, is
therefore

Afflmed.
SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 15, 1887. - Decided May 23, 1887.

Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Georgia, this court holds
that the act of the legislature of Georgia, of March 16, 1869, which provided that actions upon contracts or debts " which accrued prior to the

