RICE v. UNITED STATES.

611

Statement of the Case.

RICE v.

I NITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM TIE COUrT OF CLAMS.
Submitted January 3, 1887.-Decided larch 7, 1887.

The appellant, on the 17th February, 1886, filed his petition in the Court
of Claims, setting forth his appointment as assignee in bankruptcy of
one Robert Erwin and of Hardee, his partner in business in Savannah;
that Erwin in 1861 and in 1865 was the owner of a quantity of cotton, in
the state of Georgia, which was seized and captured and the proceeds of
which passed into the Treasury of the United States; that Congress, on
the 5th February, 1877, passed an act to permit the Court of Claims to
take jurisdiction of the claims of Erwin for this cotton, his right of action therefor being then barred; that at the time of the passage of that
act Erwin's said claims had passed into the hands of his assignee, and
were a part of his assets in bankruptcy; and that this suit was brought.
in pursuance of the special act; and he prayed judgment for the amount
in the Treasury. The United States demurred to this, and also moved to
dismiss the petition. The Court of Claims dismissed the petition. On
appeal that judgment is affirmed by u divided court.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of the appellant.
Bythe act of February 5, 1877, entitled "An act for the relief
of Robert Erwin," 19 Stat. 509, Congress enacted: "That the
Court of Claims may take jurisdiction under the provisions of
the act of March 12, 1863, entitled 'A n act to provide for the
collection of -abandoned property and for the prevention, of
frauds in insurrectionary districts within the United States,' of
the claims of Robert Erwin, of Savannah, Ga., for property
alleged to have been taken from him, which claims were by

accident or mistake of his agent or attorney, and without fault
or neglect on his part, as is claimed, not filed within the time

limited by said a,.t."
Under this act Erin, who had become a bankrupt after his
property was 'eized by the military forces .of the United
States, brought suit in his own name in the Court of Claims.
His petition was dismissed there on the ground that the title
to the property was in the assignee, and this judgment was
affirmed or appeal. 97 U. S. 392.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

His assignee in bankruptcy then brought this suit. The
petition was filed on the 17th February, 1886, and was as
follows:
"To the honorable the Court of Claims:
"The claimant, Lepine C. Rice, a citizen of the United
States, resident in the city of Savannah, in the state of Georgia, respectfully represents:
"1. Under the provisions of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, title Bankruptcy, he is the duly appointed and
qualified assignee of Robert Erwin and Charles S. Hardee,
late partners trading as Erwin & Hardee, in the said city of
Savannah, as appears more fully from certified copies of the
adjudication of bankruptcy, and of the order making his appointment, herewith filed, marked, respectively, Claimant's
Exhibit, L. C. R. No. 1, and L. C. R. No. 2, and as such assignee he now brings this suit for the benefit of the trust so
reposed in him.
"2. The said Robert Erwin, then a citizen of the state of
Georgia, on the 21st day of December, 1864, was the exclusive owner, in his own right, of two hundred and eighty-three
(283) bales of upland cotton stored in the said city of Savannah,
which on or about that day was seized and captured by
persons duly authorized and acting in behalf of the United
States, and the proceeds of the sale made thereof, amounting,
as is believed and it is here charged, to the net sumn of fortynine thousand six hundred and eighteen dollars and thirtynine cents ($49,618.39), were paid into the Treasury of the
United States, pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress, approved March 12, 1863, c. 120, commonly called the
captured and abandoned property act.
"And on or about the 1st day of July, 1865, he was also
the owner exclusively and in his own right, of another lot of
two hundred and sixty one (261) bales of sea-island cottonthen stored at and in the warehouse of Evans & Parnell, in
the town of Thomasville, in said state of Georgia, which on
or about that day was also so seized and captured by persons
duly authorized and acting in behalf of the United States,

RICE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

was removed to and stored at the ' Government cotton press'
in the city of Savannah, where it remained in the custody of
said agents of the United States until in the month of August
following, when it was by them forwarded, upon the schooner'
Enchantress, to Simeon Draper, the United States Treasury
agent in the city of New York, by whom it was subsequently
sold for the account of the United States, a"id the proceeds
thereof, -amounting, as is believed, and it is here chargedi to
the net sum of one hundred and-nineteen thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven dollars and thirty-four cents ($119,857.34),
were duly accounted for by said Simeon'Draper, and were
paid into the Treasury of the United States in conformity
with the said captured and abandoned property act.
"3. On the 31st day of December, 1868, the firm of Erwin
& Hardee, of which said Robert Erwin was a member, filedtheir petition in bankruptcy under the provisions of the acts
of Congress relating thereto, in pursuance of which, on the
15th day of January, 1869, they were duly adjudged bankrupts, as more fully appears in Exhibit L C. R. No. 1.
"And in the proceedings had in such bankruptcy one Robert
H. Footman was appointed and qualified as assignee of said
Erwin & Hardee, and proceeded in the administration of the
trust until February 23, 1877, when, upon his resignation
thereof, your petitioner, the claimant, as appears more- fully.
from Exhibit L. C. R. No. 2, was appointed to succeed him,
and was duly qualified as assignee of said bankrupts; and the
claimant now avers that under and in virtue of the assignment
in bankruptcy of 'the property and estates of said Erwin &
Hardee and each of them, and of the proceedings had in the
court in that regard, the claims of said Erwin, hereinbefore"
mentioned, against the United States, and for which this suit
is prosecuted, became and now are vested in the claimant; who
is now duly qualified and acting as assignee of said bankrupt
as is hereinbefore alleged.
"4. Inasmuch as the right of said Erwin -to maintain the
action provided in the said captured and abandoned property
act for and upon the said claims was barred by the limitation
of suits under said statute, a special act of Congress was passed

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

and became a law as of and on the 5th day of February, 1877,
the same being entitled 'An act for the relief of Robert
Erwin,' being found in 19 Stat. 509, whicli enacts and reads
as follows:
'Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the Court of Claims may take jurisdiction under the
provisions of the act of larch twelfth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-three, entitled "An act to provide for the collection of
abandoned property and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts within the United States," of the claims of
Robert Erwin, of Savannah, Georgia, for property alleged to
have been taken from him, which claims were by accident or
mistake of his agent or attorney, and without fault or neglect
on his part, as is claimed, not filed within the time limited by
said act.'
"5. The claimant now avers that under and because of said
last-recited act of Congress jurisdiction was given anew to
this court to hear and determine the said claims of the said
Erwin in the manner and by the proceedings provided in the.
captured and abandoned property act. But at the time of the
enactment of said law all the.property and rights of said
Erwin which existed on the 31st day of December, 1868, had
vested, as aforesaid, in his assignee in bankruptcy; and the
said claims, then and now, were and are assets of the estate of
said Erwin in bankruptcy, for which the claimant alone as
such assignee could, or now can, maintain the proceedings
prescribed by said captured and abandoned property act, and
under and in virtue of the said special and enabling act hereinbefore recited. And he now comes and brings this suit in
pursuance thereof.
"6. He further avers and charges that the said cotton was
never abandoned nor condemned as forfeited to the United
States; but that the said United States retains the net proceeds
thereof only as trustees for the owner thereof; and in and by
the said private act, as herein recited, it has recognized the
claimant's right to the proceeds thereof, upon the preferment
of his claim in conformity with the provisions of the said captured. and abandoned property act.

RICE v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

"7T. Ile further avers that, except the as3ignment made as
required by the bankrupt act, no assignment has been made
at any time.of the said claims or either of them, or of any part,
of them or either of them, but ihe same remain ,as assets of
the said bankrupt estate; and he now claims.payment thereof
for the benefit of the said estate; and as such assignee he
charges that he is justly entitled to have and receive the
amounts herein claimed from the moneys in the Treasury of
the United States, so held in trust for the benefit of those who
shall establish their claim to it under the provisiors of the captured-and abandoned property act.
"H1e therefore prays for judgment against the United States
for the proceeds of the said cotton, so as aforesaid seized for
and tnder the authority of the said United States, of which at
the time of its seizure the. said Robert Erwin was sole owner,
and which was so sold, and the net proceeds of which, amountihg in the aggregate to the sum of one hundred and sixty-nifii
thousand four hundred and seventy-five dollars and seventythree cents ($169,415.73), have been paid into the Treasury,
and now remain there as a part of the fund arising under said
act.
ALBERT SMALL,

Attorney and Solicitorfor Clanzant.
SHELLABARGER

&

WILsox,

Of Counsel."
The United States, by its assistant attornqy general, on the
19th April, 1886, moved to dismiss this petition, and also at
the same time demurred to it on the ground that it did not
allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Argument was heard on the motion and the demurrer together, and judgmejit was entered for the dismissal of the
petition.
Ricr
so T, C. T., delivered the opinion of the court, in
which, among other things, it was said: ".The defendants file
a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and also a general
demurrer, under each of which three objections are raised
against the claimant's petition-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"(1) It is argued that the act under which the suit is brought
was, in the words of the title, 'for the relief of Robert Erwin,'
and not for his creditors through the assignee in bankruptcy
previously appointed, and that the latter acquired no rights,
'thereby, both because the act was intended for him, Ogden"v.
Strong, 2 Paine, 584, and because the right to sue was a valuable right or privilege acquired after the appointment of the
assignee, and did not pass by the assignment.
"(2) It is also argued that an assignee in bankruptcy has no
right to keep the. estate open and bring actions nine years
-after his appointment. Rev. Stat. § 5057; Bailey v. Glover,
21 Wall. 342, 346; Walker v. Towner, 4 Dillon, 165.
"We express no final opinion on these two points, although
we are inclined to think that one of them, at least, is well
taken. They merit serious consideration, and could not be
passed by did we not prefer to rest our decision upon the third
- objection, which ,concerns more particularly the jurisdiction
of this court. But they will be open to the defendaets in the
Supreme Court on appeal, if the case should go there.
"(3) The third objection is that the claim, under the act of
1877, accrued more than six years before the filing of the petition, and so is forever barred by the following.section of the
Revised Statutes, which was held by the Supreme Court in Haycraft's Case, 22 Wall. 81, and 10 C. Cl. 108, to be jurisdictional.
"SEC. 1069. Every claim against the United States cogniz-

able by the Court of Claims, shall be forever barred unless the
petition setting forth a statement thereof is filed in the court,
or transmitted to it by the Secretary of the Senate or the
Clerk of the House of Representatives as provided by law,
within six years after the claim first accrues.
"P1,ovided, That the claims of married women first accrued
during marriage, of persons under the age of twenty-one
years first accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics,
insane persons, and persons beyond the seas at*the time the
claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if the
petition be filed in the court or transmitted, as aforesaid,
within three years after the disability has ceased; but no
other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim

RICE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

from being barred, nor shall aniy of the said disabilities operate cumulatively.
"A claim 'Tirstaccrues, within the meaning of the statute,
when a suit may first be brought upon it, and from that day
the six years' limitation begins, to run. Any suit under the
act of February 5, 1877, might have been instituted by filing
a pedtion within six years after that date. That time has
long since passed, anckthe present claimant has lost I :s rights
thereunder, if he ever had any, unles§ his case is taken out of
the operation of § 1069 of the Revised Statutes in either of
two -ways which his counsel present.
"In .his behalf it is insisted that the sectioL0 applies only to
claims which came under the general jurisdiction of the court
before its enactment, and not to claims founded upon special
acts subsequently passed. We do not concur in this view. A
relation to the right of appeal under § 707
similar doctrine in"
xonsidered by the Supreme Court
of the Revised Statutes was
in Zellner's Case, Vall.,244nund 7 C. C1. 137. The court
said: ' We cannot agree to the view that' the general provision in -the fifth section of the act of Mlarch 3, 1863, reorganiiing the Court of Claims and conferring what may be called
its general jurisdiction, cannot be invoked in this case. The
language of the section is general: ":Either party may appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States from any final
judgment or decree which may hereafter be rendered in any
case by said court." This court was organized as a special
judicial tribunal to hear and render judgment in cases between
the citizen and the government; the subjects of its jurisdiction were defined in the apt, and generally the mode of
conducting its proceedings, subject, of course, to such alterations and changes as Congress from time to time might see
fit to make. The subjects of its jurisdiction could be enlarged
or diminished, but this would not disturb or in any way affect
the general plan or system of its organization. If new or
additional subjects of jurisdiction were conferred, the effect
.would be simply to increase the labors of the court, the case
to be heard and determined'under the existing organization.'
"In XAcee's Case, 10 C. Cl.A08, the Supreme Court held ex-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

pressly that ' Section 707 of the Revised Statutes gives.to the
United States the right of appeal from the adverse judgments
of the Court of Claims in all cases where that court is required
by any general or special law to take jurisdiction of a claim
made against the United States and act judicially in its determination.' 91 U. S. 442. And the Supieme Court took
jurisdiction, of an appeal from this court upon a judgment
rendered against Robert Erwin under this very act of 1877,
although the only authority for it was found in § 707 of the
Revised Statutes. 'Ewinv. Urnited States, 97 U. S. 392.
"There is no distinction in principle between the application
of the right of appeal under § 707, to special acts of legislation
subsequently passed, and the application of the limitation of
§ 1069 to such cases.
"The act of 17[ created a new and additional subject of
jurisdiction and a new cause of action, by reviving an expired
one, and in our opinion the general statute of limitations, as
well as the general right of appeal, attaches and applies to it;
just as when part payment on a promissory note takes a right
of action thereon out of the statute, such right is not forever
after relieved from all limitation, but the statute begins to run
anew from the date of such payment. "It is now more than nine years since this court was opened
anew to the-rightful clafrnant, whoever he may be, under the
act of 1877, and, according to the construction urged by the
present claimant, it is never to be closed until he be found,
and of his own motion comes in and ifies his petition, a construction which, in our opinion, is Unreasonable and not to be
adopted.
"While Congress has declared a general limitation of six
years for ' every claim cognizable by the Court of Olaims,' and
a still shorter one of two years, for claims under the captured
or abandoned property act, it is unreasonable to infer that it intended to confer upon every claimant under the act of 1877and the present one is the second who has appeared, Erwins
Case, 13 C. Cf. 49, affirmed on appeal, 97 U. S. 392-the unusual and extraoidinary privilege accorded to no other citizen,
of bringing an action against the government at any future

RICE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

time 'without limitation. Such a construction would be in
conflict with all -idea of repose, which is said to be the object
of statutes of limitation, and to the general policy of Congress
in all other cases.
"It was said in Clar's Case, 96 U. S. 37, 11 0. C1. 702, decided a year before the passage of the act of 1877 now under
consideration: ' It is not to be doubted that subsequent subjects
of jurisdiction would be subject to the provisions of the statute of limitation if they were in the nature of money demands
against the government.' This was then and has e-3r since
been the settled doctrine of this court, and we have no doubt
Congress so understood it when the act of 1877 was passed.
"That the present claim, uinder that act, is a money demand against the government, and nothing else, we shall
demonstrate beyond question, we are quite confident.
"But the claimant argues that the property received and
sold, and the proceeds thereof in the Treasury, under the
peculiar legislation of the captured or abandoned property
act of March 12, 1863, 12 Stat. 820, are trust, funds, of which
the defendants are merely trustees, and are subject to the rules
and practice of courts of equity in relation to equitable trusts,
one of which is, that statutes of limitation d6 not run as between trustee and cestui gue trust.
"A trust in which the so-called trustee may legally mingle
the trust money with his own, employ it for his own use, and
himself determine whether he will forever retain it, or will
give it to others, is a singular trust, unknown to law or equity,
and to which no principles of equity 'jurisprudence can be
found to apply.
"It is a universal rule of equity that if a trustee mingles
trust money with his own and uses it for his own benefit, he
shall account for or pay interest thereon to the cestui que
trust. Story's Equity, §§ 1277, 1277 a; Perry on Trusts, §468.
"But it is provided in Reised Statutes as follows:
"'SEc. 1091. No interest, shall be allowed on any claim up
to the time of the rendition of judgment thereon by the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Cours of Claims, unless upon a contract expressly stipulating
for the payment of interest.
"This court has always applied that section to cases under
subsequently enacted special acts and to those under the captured or abandoned property act.
"In _Taylor'78 Case, 104 U. S. 216, 222, the Supreme Court
called the United States trustees of the surplus money paid
into the Treasury from the sales of Jands for taxes under the
direct tax acts, 12 Stat. 292, 422, 640; 14 Stat. 568, over and
above that -which was required to .pay the tax, interest, and
costs. That court did not treat the case as one in equity,
and upon a finding of facts by this court, as in cases at law,
they held, as to the statute of limitations, that 'the right of
the owner of the land to recover the money which the government held for him as his trustee did not become a claim on
-which suit could, be brought, and such as was cognizable by
the Court of Claims, until demand ther-efor had been made at
the Treasury. Upon such demand the claim first accrued,'
and the statute of limitation began to run. So in the present
case, a suit cognizable by the Court of Claims could not have
been brought after the limitation of the captured or abandoned property act .had expired, until the passage of the act
of 1877 specially authorizing it, and from that time the statute
of limitation began, to run and had run -out long before the
claimant came into court.'
Nott, J., disseited from this judgment and opinion, .and
filed a dissenting opini6n. The following is an extract from
it:

"1The plain and simple question in this case is -whether the
statute of limitations, Rev. Stat. 1069, applies to that subject of

jurisdiction known as the captured propertkr cases.
"In Haycraft's Case, 22 Wall. 81, the counsel for the claim
ant asked the same question, and the Supreme Court answered
that it did not.
"What, then, is the condition of the claimant's case?
"On the 20th of August, 1868, Robert Erwin was the equita-

RICE

'. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

bl. owner of a fund in the Treasury, of which the equitable
title had never been divested from himself, being then held by
the government as his trustee. On that day he might have
instituted a suit for the fund, but on that day the jurisdictional
period for instituting such suits expired. A provision of law
confining jurisdiction to a certain period no more affects the
party or the cause of action than a provision of law confining
jurisdiction to a certain territory. Therefore Erwin's right to
the fund did not expire with the right of the court to entertain his case. The effect of the statute was simply that on
that day as to such cases the door of the court was shut.
"On .the 5th February, 1877, Congress reopened the door
by passing the private act, 19 Stat. 509. The original abandoned or captured property act said that the door should
stand open for two years; the private act set no limitation of
the kind, but leaves it open still, and still continues to declare
that 'the Court of Claims may take jurisdiction' of the claim.
The private act does not recreate the claim; it does not validate it; it does not remove any presumption of payment from
it; it simply opens the door of the court and allows whoever
may be entitled to do so to bring tb claim in.
"Why, then, should not the claim - hearc? The grant of
jurisdiction has not expired; the private act has not been repealed; it still continues to say 'the Court of Claims may
take jurisdiction -under the provisions of the act of March 12,
1863,' 'of the claims of Robert Erwin;' why, then, should
not the Court of Claims take jurisdiction and adjudge the
case?
"The counsel for the government answers that the general
statute of limitations applies to this demand and bars the suit.
"If the statute of limitations applies so as to preclude a trial
upon the merits, it must apply not to the door of jurisdiction,
but to .the claim itself. Statutes of limitation are statutes of
repose which do not extend to courts nor affect jurisdiction,
but which attach to a debt or demand a presumption of payment, and. operate to extinguish the thing itself as completely
as if payment had been made. Therefore, if the statute of
limitations applies to this claim, neither Robert Erwin, nor his

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

assignee, nor any other person can ever assert a right to the
fund derived from his cotton. All other claimants can; but
this claim must be considered in law as actually paid and extinguished: It is conceded that the claim was not so extinguished when the private act was passed; it is conceded that
none other of the thousands of claims which are still outstanding upon the captured property fund is presumptively or legally
extinguished by the statute of limitations. Why, then, is this
How is it possible that Congress by passing. an act, without
the solicitation of the legal owner of the claim, the present
claimant, authorizing a court to take jurisdiction of a case and
nothing 'more, can have attached to the claim itself another
statute not previously applicable to it, which should in time
work out a legal presumption of payment dnd an absolute
extinguishment of the claimant's rights?
"If it be asked whether this thing can go on foiever, the answer seems a very plain one. Congress did not here pass a
general act, nor an act affecting a class of claims, but made a
grit of special jurisdiction for the benefit of a single, isolated
case; the act of grace and favor did not confer a right, but
provided a remedy; Congress can take away the remedy at
any time without trenching upon the claimant's rights.
"The counsel for the claimant has supposed that in the administration of the abandoned or captured property act the
fund in the Treasury was treated by this court as a fund in
equity, and the counsel is right in his supposition. Considering that it dealt with aillions and must involve some of the
most perplexing questions that could possibly be brought before
a court, that act was in one particular probably the most extraordinaxy statute that was ever enacted. All that relates to
.the jurisdiction and duties of the court, and to the rights and
disabilities of the parties, is to be found in nine lines which are
thrust into a section primarily relating to the bonds and books
of account of agents of the Treasury. The -judges who had
to bear the heat and burden of that day ini determining principles, in devising remedies, in framing a system which should
be commensurate with the necessities of the situation - that
is to say, the judges who administered the statute from the

RICE v. UNITED STATES.
Decision.

case of Tz1bbitts, in 1 0. C1. 169, to the case of Boyd, in the
ninth volume (p.-419), had an absolutely novel subject of jurisprudence assigned to them without one word of statutory guidance to direct them and without a precedent to be gathered
from all the courts in the world.
"Whatever may be thought of the wisdom of their conclusiofi,
one thing is incontrovertible and that is, that they, eventually,
believed the fund in the Treasury to be a fund in equity, and
that they exercised in regard to it whatever-power of a court
of equity might be necessary to protect the fund. The interlocutory proceedings, 4 0. 01. 486; 5 id. 645, and the final decree, 7 id.605, in'the Elgee Cotton Case, and the decree in the
case of Rothschild, 6 C. Cl. 244, will illustrate to any lawyer
with any knowledge of equity jurisdiction that the court was
dealing with rights and remedies which belong to the discretionary powers of a court of equity, and which are not the
rights and remedies that come within the inflexible jurisdiction
of a court of law. Some attempts have beem made to show
that courts of law have dealt with implied trusts in some such
'way, but the only authorities that could be found were Bacon's
Abridgment, and Reeve's History of the Coinmon Law, and
they, unhappily, related to a time when the court of chancery.
did not exist as a court of equity, and when the system of
equity jurisprudence was not yet devised.
"But I do not regard the statilte of limitation as necessarily
exclusive of equity cases. I place my conclusion here entirely
upon the ground that the private act granted a remedy; that
the reniedy was not limited as to time, and that there is no
law which attaches to this claim a presumption of payment."
.r .Alhert Small, .Kr.Samuel Shellabarger,31r. J. -M.Wilson, .Mr. 6'arles N. West, and -Mr. Charles .Marshall for appellant.
-Mr. -Attorney General and XA. Heer J. -May for appellee.

:Am.

CHIEF JusTicE WAITE

announced that the judgment of

the Court of Claims was
-Affiy'med y a divided court

