OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

ority in the quality of the material used and of the workman.
ship. We are satisfied, from an examination of the testimony,
that this allowance ought not to be increased. There is no
sufficient proof that the iron used was not annealed iron.
The ecree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, aflrmed.

HARSHM il

. KNOX COUNTY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AISSOURI.
Submitted April 22,1887. - Decided May 27,1887.
Allegations of material facts and of traversable facts in a declaration
which are necessary to be proved in order to support a recovery, are
confessed by a default; and in mandamus against the proper municipal
officers to enforce the collection of a tax to pay the judgment entered
against a municipal corporation upon such default, the respondent is
estopped from denying such allegations.
Mandamus to enforce the collection of a tax to pay a judgment against a
municipal corporation being a remedy in the nature of an execution,
nothing can be alleged by the respondent to contradict the record of the
judgment.
Balls County v. United States, 105, U. S. 733, explained.

THIs was a proceeding by mandamus against the Justices of
the county court of Knox County to compel them to levy a
tax sufficient to pay a judgment for $77,374.46, obtained by the
relator, Harshman, on the 28th of March, 1881, against that
county, in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri.

The information alleged that "said judgment was recovered
upon bonds and coupons issued by the said county in part
payment of a subscription made by the said county on the 9th
day of June, 1867, to the capital stock of the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company, a railroad company duly
organized under the laws of the state of Missouri; that said
subscription was authorized, by a vote of the people of said
county at a special election held pursuant to an order of the

HARSHMAN. v. KNOX COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

county court of said county, on the 12th day of March, 1867,
under the 17th section of c. 63 of the general statutes of
Missouri of 1866, then in force; that at said election two,
thirds of the qualified voters of said county voted in favor of
and assented to the making of said subscription; that relator
has requested the said county court and the justices thereof to
levy a special tax upon all property in said county made taxable by law for county purposes, and upon the actfial capital
that al merchants and grocers and other business men may
have invested in business in said county, and to cause the said
tax to be collected in money, and when collected to be applied
in payment and discharge of said judgment; that the said
county court and the justices thereof have refused and neglected to levy the said tax ;'°that the said county has no
property out of which the said judgment can be levied, and
that relator has no other adequate remedy at law."
The respondents made return to the alternative ,v.it substantially as follows: They admitted that the judgment of the
relator was recovered upon bonds and coupons issued by
the county of Knox in part payment of two subscriptions
made by said county to the capital stock of the Missouri and
M ississippi Railroad Company; but they denied that said
subscriptions or either of them were authorized by a vote of
the people of that county at either a general or special
election held pursuant to an order of the county court of said
county on the 12th day of March, 1867, or at any other time,
under the 17th section of c. 63 of the General Statutes
of Missouri, then in force. They denied that two-thirds of the
qualified voters of Knox County ever voted in favor of or assented to making any subscription to the capital stock of the
Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company. They averred
that, in point of fact, on the 13th of Mray, 1867, the county
court of said county made a subscription to the capital stock of
said company in the sum of $100,000, and on the 2d of Mray,
1870, the said court made a further subscription to the capital
stock of said company in the sum of $55,000. That in payment
of both of these subscriptions, the said court issued bonds in the
denominations of $500 and $50; that fifty-eight of the relator's

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

said bonds were of the first of these issues, and sixty.Were of the
second; that both of these subscriptions were made without
the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of the county,
and, indeed, without any vote being taken at all, and against
the will of said qualified voters; that they were made by
authority only of § 13 of the charter of the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company, being an act of the General
Assembly of the state of Missouri, entitled "An act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad *Company," approved February 20, 1865; that each of relator's said bond.s
contained a recital that it was issued under and pursuant to
orders of the county court of Knox County to the Missouri
and Mississippi Railroad Company, for subscription to the capital stock of said company, as authorized by said act, to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,
approved February 20, 1865; and that said court had each
year since the issue of said bonds levied a tax of one-twentieth
of one per c;nt. upon the assessed value of all the taxable
property in said county, and had caused the same to. be extended on the tax books of said, county for each year, and had
had said tax collected for the'purpose of paying said bonds
and coupons; that Knox County had no money in its treasury
with which to pay.the relator's judgment, and that the judges'
of Knox County had no legal authority to levy any other or
greater taxes than the taxes as hereinbefore stated, and no
legal authority-or power to levy or cause to be collected the
special tax which the'relator sought to have imposed.
On the coming in of this return, the relator moved the court
to quash the same on the ground that the matters and things
therein set forth were inconsistent with aild contradictory to
the record of the judgment in the case. This motion was
overruled by the court, to which ruling an exception was
taken.
An answer to the return was filed by the relator, in which
were set forth the various steps and proceedings taken, as
therein alleged, by the authorities and people of the county of
Knox, in respect to the issue of the bonds on which the judgment was founded, claiming that an election was duly had by

HARSHAMAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
Statemeht of the Case.

an order of the county court under the authority of the general laws of Missouri, in virtue of which the subscription to
the stock of the railroad company was made and the bonds in
question issued. To this answer a replication was filed, and
the case was submitted to a jury.
On the trial, as appeared by a bill of exceptions duly taken,
the relator offered to read in evidence the petition, summons,
marshal's return, and judgment referred to in the informatioi.
On objection made by the respondents, the court ruled that
these papers could not be. read unless the relator would also
read the bonds filed with said petition, to which ruling the
relator excepted. The relator then put in evidence the said
papers and also the said bonds. •
The petition in the original action set out, "that on the 9th
day. of June, 1867, defendant subscribed to the capital stock of
the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, a railroad
company duly organized under the laws of this state, the sum
of one hundred thousand dollars; that said subscription was
authorized by a vote of the people of said county of Knox at a
special election held pursuant to an order of the county court
of said county on the 12th day of March, 1867, under the 17th
section of . 63 of the General Statutes of Missouri of
1866, then in force; that at said election two-thirds of the
qualified voters of said county voted in favor of and assented
to the making of said subscription; that in part payment of
said subscription defendant, by its county court, executed and
issued divers bonds with coupons for interest attached; that
by each of said bonds defendants promised to pay to bearer,
at the INational Bank of Commerce, in the city of New York,
on the first day of February, 1878, the sum of five hundred
dollars, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum;
that said coupons for interest were made and are payable on
the first day of February of each year between the issuing of
said bonds and the maturity thereof; that by each of said
coupons defendant promised to pay bearer the sum of thirtyfive dollars, being one year's interest on the bond to-which it
was attached. That, in further payment in part of said subscription, -defendant executed and issued divers other bonds

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

with coupons for interest attached" that by each of said bbnds
defendant promised to pay to bearer, at the National Bank of
Commerce, in the city of New York, on the first day of February, 1880, the sum of five hundred dollars, with interest at
the rate of seven per cent per annum; that said coupons for
interest were made payable on the first day of February of
each year, between the issuing of said bonds and the maturity
thereof; that by each of said coupons defendant promised to
pay to bearer the sum of thirty-five dollars, being one year's
on the bond to which it was attached."
interest
The petition
also set out that the plaintiff was the bearer
and owner of divers of said bonds and coupons, designated by
numbers. The return of the summons showed that the writ
was duly served, and judgment was rendered thereon March
28, 1881, by default, which set forth that "this action being
founded upon certain bonds and coupons for interest thereon,
issued by said defendant, -and described in the petition, the
court finds that the plaintiff has sustained damages by reason
of the non-payment thereof in the sum of $7,7,374.46.' It is,
therefore, considered by the court, that the plaintiff, George
W. Harshman, have and recover of the defendant, the county of Knox, as well the said sum of $77,371.46, the damages
aforesaid by the court assessed, -as also the costs herein expended, and have thereof execution." Each of the bonds contained the following recital: "This
bond being issued under and pursuant to order of the county
court of Knox. County for. subscription to the stock of the
Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, as authorized by
an act of the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, entitled 'An act -to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company,' approved February 20, 1865."
The issues of fact submitted to the jury were as follows:
"First. Was there an election held under the orders of the
county court read in evidence, and did two-thirds of the qualified voters voting t said election cast their votes in favor of
the subscription by the county court to the stock mentioned
in said orders?
"Second. Was the subscription to stock to the railroad con-

HARSHMAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

pankr actually made, not, as recited in said bonds, under the
charter of the Missouri & Mississippi Railroad Co., but under
the general law, whereby the authority to make such subscription and issue bonds therefor was dependent on the vote
of the people; in other words, has the relator proved that,
despite the recitals -in the bonds, they were not issued as
recited, but under the general law, and that said recitals in
the bonds were made through mistake or inadvertence."
At the conclusion of the evidence the court instructed the
jury, "that to overcome the recitals in the bonds issued by
the county court under its seal, the evidence must be clear
and positive, full and explicit, and that the burden of proving
the alleged mistake, so as to overthrow the said recitals, is
upon the relator in this case," and "that the evidence to overcome said recitals is insufficient."
In answer to these questions, the jury found in the affirmative on the first, and in the negative on the second; and thereupon the court entered a judgment in favor of the respondents, in which it was recited that it appeared to the court
"that there was an election held under orders of the county
court of Knox County, and that two-thirds of the qualified
voters voting at said election cast their votes in favor of the
subscription by the said court to the stock mentipned in its
orders, but that the subscription to the stock of the Missouri
and Mississippi Railroad Company was actually made and the
bonds issued, not as alleged in the petition and alternative
writ in t-his case, under the general law of the state of Missouri, but solely under and by virtue of an act of the General
Assembly of the state of Missouri, entitled ' An act to incorporate the. Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,' approved February .20, 1865." Laws of Missouri, 1865, p. 86.
The charter of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, referred to, incorporated it with power to construct a
railroad from the town of Macon, in the county of Macon, in
the state of Missouri, through the townpf Edina, in the county of Knox, in said state, and thence to, or near the northeast
corner of said state, in the direction of Keokuk, in Iowa or
Alexandria, Missouri. The 13th section was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Defendants in Error.

"Sec. 13. It shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of
any city or town, the county court of any county desiring so
to do, to subscribe to the capital stock of said company, and
may issue bonds therefor, and levy a tax to pay the same, not
to exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed
value of taxable property for each year." Ib. p. 88.
On the other hand,'§ 17 and 18 of the General Railroad
Law (Gen. Stat. Missouri, 1865, p. 338) provide as follows:
"Sec. 17. It shall be lawful for the county court of any
county, the city council of any city, or the trustees of any incorporated town, to take stock for such county, city, or town
in, or loan the credit thereof to, any railroad company, duly
organized under this or any other law of the state: _provided,
that two-thirds of the qualified voters of such county, city,
or town, at a regular or special election to be held therein,
-shall assent to such subscription.
"Sec. 18. Upon the making of such subscription by any
county court, city, or town, as provided for in the previous
section, such county, city, or town shall thereupon become,
like other subscribers to such stock, entitled to the privileges
granted and subject to the liabilities imposed by this chapter,
or by the charter of the company in which such subscriptions
shall be made; and in: order to raise funds to pay the instalments which may be called for from. time to time by the
board of directors of such railroad, it shall'be the duty of the
county court, or city council, or trustees of such town, making
such subscription, to issue their bonds or levy a special tax
upon all property made taxable by law for county purposes,
and upon the actual capital that all merchants and grocers
and other business men may have invested in business in the
county, city, or town, to pay such instalm'ents, to be kept
apart from other funds, and appropriated to no other purpose
"
than the payment of such subscription.
.r. T. - Ski'iner and -Mr. J. B. Henderson each filed a
brief for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. James Carrand 1r,. George D. Reynolds for defendants
in error.

HARSHMAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
•Argument for Defendants in Error.

There were two laws under which the subscription could
be made, and the bonds in question issued in payment of said
subscription by Knox County to the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company. The one was the charter of the railroad
company, and the other was the general railroad law.
Unsder the charter of the Missouri and Mississippi lRailroad
Company the county court of Knox County could make a
valid subscription to said company without the assent of twothirds of thb qualified voters of said county, but the County
Court in levying a tax to pay the same was limited to a sum
not to exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed
value of the taxable property for each year.
Under the general railroad law it was not lawful for the
county court of Knox County, or any othdr county, to subscribe to the capital stock of any railroad company, without
the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of the county;
but there was no restriction upon the amount of the levy
which it was the duty of the county court to make.
Only parties and privies are estopped by a judgment.
Stacy v. ITrasher, 6 How. 44. The defendants were neither
parties nor privies to the judgment which the relator recovered against Knox County. They had no right to call
witnesses to testify in their favor, to cross-examine the
witnesses introduced by the opposite side; to control the defence, or to sue out a writ of error. As they were not parties
to said judgment, they are not estopped from showing that
the allegations in the relator's petition, upon which he recovered said judgment by default, are false. ffa/e v. Finch,
104 U. S. 261; Railroad Co. v. Nat. B ,k, 102 U. S. 14; Wlood
v. Davis, 7 Cranch, 271.
Even if the defendants had been parties to said action, in
which said judgment was recovered,, they would not be
estopped from showing the actuol contract between Knox
County on one side and the Missouri ind Mississippi Railroad
Company and the holders of the bonds issued to it under and
in pursuance of said contract on the other side. ' It has already
been shown that th6 county court of Knox County had no authority or power to subscribe to the capital stock of the Missouri

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

and Mississippi Railroad Company under the General Statutes
of Missouri without the assent of two-thirds of the qualified
voters of the county. And if the county court had put such
a recital into the bonds, it could not by such false recital create an obligation to levy a tax 'under the General Statutes,
and thereby estop the defendants from showing that the subscription was made and the bonds issued under the charter of
the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company. Rights cannot be created and duties imposed by false recitals, where
there is a total want of power. Carroll County v. Smith, 111
U. S. 556; School -Districtv. Stone, 106 U. S. 183; _Horton v.
Shel6y County, 118 U. S. 425; Damves8 County v. Dickinson,
117 U. S. 657.
The judgment by default being rendered on a false allegation, the respondents have a clear right to disprove them
and to show the actual ontraof between the parties. Davis
v. Brown, 94 U. S. 428; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580.
When the well settled canon of constructionexpressio uniu8
est exclusio alterius, is applied to this recital, it is conclusive
that the subscription was made and the relator's bonds issued
in part payment thereof, under and by authority of the 1th
section of the charter of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad
Company only.- United Sates v. acon County Court, 99
U. S. 58 .
Estoppels must .estop both parties, or they will not estop
either party. They must be mutual. Big elow on Estoppel,
98 (4th ed.); Petriev. Yuttall, 11 Exch. 569; Railroad Co. v.
.Hational'Bank, 102 U. S. 14; Carroll County v. Smith, 111
U. S. 556, 562 ; School Districtv. Stone, 106 U. S. 183.
The re.atoe having partially opened the record is estopped
from objecting to the defendants' treating ihe whole record as
opened. This is the practice in courts of equity where a complainant seeks the means of carrying into effect a decree or
judgment rendered in another litigation between the same
parties, or parties claiming under them when the decree or
judgment does not provide the means of execution. In such
case the court will look into the original cause of action and
ascertain whether the complainant is entitled to have the court

HARSHAIAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

aid him in carrying into effect the original decree or judgment.
The general rule of res judicata has the foregoing qualification. Bigelow on Estoppel, 96, 97 (4th ed.); O'ConkelZ v.
2faclTamara, 3 Drury & Warren, (Sugden Dec.) 411; if ni ton, v. -Houghton,2 Bligh, 169; Bean v. Smith, 2 MNason, 299.
The relator's own bonds showed on their face that they had
been issued under and by authority of the charter of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company. They imparted full
notice to him of the authority under which they had been
issued. If he had followed up the notice he would have ascertained that the county court of Knox County is restricted
in levying "a tax to pay the same not to exceed one twentieth
of one per cent upon the assessed value of taxable property for
each year." State v. Slhortridge, 56 Missouri,- 126; United
States v. AfXacon County, 99 U. S. 582; State v. .acon County,
68 Missouri, 29.
The defendants, as justices of Knox county court, are officers of the siate of Missouri with theirpowers and duties well
defined. Reardon v. St.& ouis County, 36 Missouri, 552, 561;
St. Louis, &c. v. County Court, 34 Missouri, 546; Steines v.
Franklin County, 48 Missouri, 167, 188 ; Ray County v. Bentley, 49 Missouri, 236; Balls County Court v. UnitedStates, 105
U. S. 733; Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 'U. S. 693.
The county court of Knox County has annually levied a
special tax of one twentieth of one per cent as authorized by
the charter of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,
which is all it is required or has authority to do. See SuperVisors v. United States, 18 Wall. 71.
As soon as the Supreme Court of Missouri decided in 1874
that the county court of Macon County-and the Knox
County bonds were the same in form, mutatis mutandis, as
the Macon County bonds, and issued under the same charter had no legal authority to levy any other or greater tax than
one twentieth of one per cent, the county court of Knox.
County ceased to levy any other or greater tax than one twentieth of one per cent. This it has levied every year.: .Daviess
County v. Dickinson,117 U. S. 657 ; .ferchants'.Bankv. Bergen
County, 115 U. S. 384; .Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676;
Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

If the defendants were required by mandamus to levy a
special tax to -pay the relator's judgment, it would be'a direct
violation of the laws of the state of Missouri.
MR. JuSTICE MATruws, after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not denied, and has been so decided by the Supreme
Court of Missouri, that, under § 17 of the General Railroad
Law, just cited, the county court of a county was authorized
to subscribe to the stock of railroad companies, though created
by special charter, provided the requisite assent of the qualified voters was duly obtained. Cape Girardeau, &c.,County
v. -Dennis,67 Missouri, 438; Ckouteau v. Allen, 70 Missouri,
290.
It is also not denied, that, by virtue of § 18 of the General
Railroad Law, the special tax therein provided may be lpvied
for the purpose of paying bonds issued in pursuance thereof,
and that without limit as to its amount. United States v.
The County of .fXacon, 99 U. S. 582. As the limit of taxation
prescribed and permitted under § 13 of the act incorporating
the Missouri and M ississippi lRailro d Company, to be levied
in payment of bonds issued thereunder, was not to exceed onetwentieth of one per cent upon the assessed value of the taxable property for each year, the contention of the respondents
in the Circuit Court was, that they were entitled to show by
the recitals in the bonds themselves, in contradiction to those
contained in the judgment founded upon them, that they were
in fact issued under the charter of the corporation, and not
under the general law. On this point, the judgment of the
Circuit Court was in their favor, denying 'to the relator the
peremptory writ of mandamus, and this decision is now
alleged as error, for which the judgment should be reversed.
The question is, whether the respondents below are estopped
in this proceeding by the judgment in favor of the relator
against the county of Knox on the bonds, to deny that the
bonds were issued in pursuance of ' 17, c. 63, of the General
Statutes of Missouri of..1866. The averment to that effect in

HARSMIAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the petition in the action, if material and traversable, was confessed by the default. The judgment recites that the action
is founded upon certain bonds and coupons for interest thereon
issued by said defendant and described in the petition. The
averment as to the character of the bonds, and the grounds
ana authority upon which they~were founded, so as to constitute them legal obligations of the county of Knox, contained
in the petition, was clearly material to the plaintiff's cause of
action. If the defendant had denied it by a proper pleading,
the fact would haye been put in issue, and the plaintiff would
have been bound to prove it.
It was part of the plaintiff's case to show, not merely the
execution of the honds by the county authorities, but that
they were issued in pursuance of a law making them the valid
obligations of the county. The power to issue such securities
does not inhere in a municipal corporation, so as to be implied
from its corporate existence; it must be conferred, either in
express words, or by reasonable intendment; and if the authority to issue them in a given case is challenged by a proper
denial, the plaintiff is put to the proof. What it is necessary
for him to prove, it is proper for him to allege, and the ai-;gation must be proven as made. It follows, therefore, that if a
denial had been made in the action on the bonds in question,
the averment that they were issued under § 17, c. 63, of the
General Statutes of :Missouri of 1866, would have been material and traversable, and proof of the fact would have been
necessary to support the recovery. In the absence of a denial,
the fact as stated in the petition of" the plaintiff is confessed
by the default, and stands as an admission on the record, of
its truth by the defendant. It is quite true that the judgment
would have been the same whether the authority to issue the
bonds was derived under the general statutes or under the
charter of the railroad company, but good pleading required
that the fact, whichever way it was, should be stated, and
when stated the averment must be proved as laid.
As this is a direct proceeding upon the judgment, its effect
as an estoppel is determined by the first branch of the rule as
laid down in CrornweZ v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

That is: "It is a finality as to the claim or demand in controvelsy, concluding parties and those in privity with them, not'
only as to every matter which was offered and received to
sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other admissible matter which might have been offered for that purpose."

And as stated in Buren v. Shanno, 99 Mass. 200,

203, "The estoppel is not confined to the judgment, but extends to all facts involved in it, as necessary steps or the
groundwork upon which it must have been founded." It is'
none the ress conclusive because rendered by default. "The
conclusiveness of a judgment upon the rights of the parties
does in nowise depend upon its form or upon the fact that the
court investigated or decided the legal principles involved; a
judgment by default or upon confession is in its nature just as
conclusive upon the rights of the parties before the court as a
j'adgment. upon a dpmurrer or verdict." Giford v. Thorn, 9
N. T. Eq. (18 Stockton) 702, 722. The bar is all the more perfect and complete in this proceeding because it is not a new
action. Mandamus, as it has been repeatedly decided by this
court, in such cases as the present, is a remedy, in the nature
of an execution for the purpose of collecting the judgment.
Biggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166 ; Supervisors v. -Durant,
9 Wall. 415 ; Thompson v. United States, 103 U. S. 480, 484.
Certainly nothing that contradicts the record of the judgment
can be alleged in a pibceeding at law for its collection by
execution.
. In Ralls County v. United States, 105 U. S. 733, 734, the Chief
Justice said: "In the return to the alternative writ many defences were set up which related to the validity of the coupons
on which the judgment had been obtained, as obligations of
the county. As to these defences, it is sufficient to say it was
conclusively settled by thE judgment, which lies at the fouldation of the present suit, that the coupons were binding obligations of the county, duly creaied under the authority of the
charter of the railroad company, and as such entitled to payment out of any fund that could lawfully be raised for that
purpose. It has been in effect so decided by the Supreme
Court of Missouri in Stdte v. -Rainey,74 Missouri, 229, and the
principle on which 'the decision rests is elementary."

HARSHMAN v. KNOX COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

As the execution follows the nature of the judgment, and
its precept is to carry into effect the rights of the plaintiff as
declared by the judgment, with that mode and measure of
redress which in such cases the law gives, so the mandamus in
a case like the present can be limited in its mandate only by
that which the judgment itself declares.
It was said, however, in Ralls County v. The United States,
105 U. S. 733, 735, that "while the coupons are merged in the
judgment, they carry with them into the judgment all the
remcdies which'in law formed a part of their contract obligations, and these remedies may still be enforced in all appropriate
ways, notwithstanding the change in the form of the debt."
It is argued from this, that, as the remedies to be resorted to
for the purpose of enforcing the judgment are those given by
the original contract, it is necessary to ascertain from the contract itself what those remedies are; but that is the very matter which has been already passed upon in the judgment,
which decides, in the present case, by its recital, the character
and extent of the obligation created by the la* of the contract. It may well be that in a case where the record of the
judgment is silent on the point, the original contract may be
shown, notwithstanding the merger, to determine the extent
of the remedy provided by the law for its enforcement; but
that is not admissible where, as in this case, the matter has
been adjudged in the original action. Iindeed, in view of the
nature of the remedy by mandamus, as the means of executing
the judgment, it is all the more material and important that
the judgment itself should determine the nature of the contract and the extent of its obligation. The averment in the
original petition that the bonds were issued under the authority
of a particular statute becomes, therefore, an additional element in the plaintiff's case in that action for the purpose of
showing with certainty what is the mode and measure of redress after judgment. By the terms of the judgment in favor.
of the relator it was determined that the bonds sued on were
issued under the authority of a statute which- prescribed no
limit to the rate of taxation for their payment. In such cases,
the law which authorizes the issue of the bonds gives also the

OCTOBER .TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

means of payment by taxation. The findings in the judgment
on that point are conclusive. They bind the respondents in
their official capacity, as well as the county itself, because, as
was said in Labette County Commissioners v. .loulton, 112

U. S. 211, they are "the legal representatives of the defendant,
in that judgment, as being the parties on whom the law -has
cast the duty of providing for its satisfaction. They are not
,strangers to it as being new parties on whom an original obligation is sought to be charged, but are bound by it as it stands
without the right to question it, and under a legal duty to
take those steps which the law has prescribed as the only mode
of providing means for its payment."
The return of the respondents, therefore, to the alternative
writ of mandamus is insufficient in law, and the Circuit Court
erred in not awarding to the relator a peremptory writ of
mandamus. For that error
77e judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to award a Peremp)to7ry mandamus.

WALTER v. BICKIIAM.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted May 11, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

B. and M. sued out an attachment against the property of L. and A., who had
made an assignment for the benefit of creditors. The writ coming to
the hands of a marshal of the United States, he indorsed thereon an appointment of a special deputy, leaving the na -ie of the latter blank, and
verbally authorizing the attorney of the attaching creditors to fill the blank
with the name of some " bonded officer." The blank was filled by the
attorney with the name of a sheriff; and, he declining to act, his name
was erased by the attorney, who then inserted the name of a town marshal. The latter having executed the writ by seizing the property of the
debtors, on the same day turned over both the property and the writ. to a
regular deputy of the marshal. Subsequently the court, with the consent of the attaching credlitors, the debtors and the assignee of the

