OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Petition for Rehearing.

Congress, is a valid grant ; that the survey and the patent
issued upon it, as well as the original grant by Armijo, are entirely free from any fraud on the part of the grantees r those
claiming under them; and that the decision could be no other
than that which the learned judge of the Circuit Court below
made, and which this court affirmed.
Thepetitiofor reheai, is,
therefore, denied.

MERCHANTS'

INSURANCE

COPALNY v. ALLEN.

MERCHANTS' INSURANCE COMPANY v. WEEKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 18,1887.- Decided May 27,1887.
An owner of one-fourth interest in a vessel took out a policy of insurance
on his interest in the vessel, which contained these words: "Warrauted
by the assured that not more than $5000 insurance, including this policy,
now exists, nor shall be hereafter effected on said interest, either by
assured or others, to cover this or any other insurable, interest in said
interest, during the continuance of this policy." The acceptors of
drafts drawn by the master effected for their own protection insurance
on the freight and earnings of the vessel in excess of this amount, and
a like insurance on freight and earnings in excess was effected on
account of other owners: Held, That this was no breach of the covenant
of warranty.

Tins was a petition for rehearing a cause decided at this
term, and reported 121 U. S. 67. The petition was as follows, omitting the title and the references to the evidence:
To the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
The Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company, appellant in
the above entiled'causes, prays the court to grant a rehearing
thereof, because the court has fallen into an error of fact most
seriously affecting the rights of your petitioner.
The error of fact consists in a mistaken appreciation of the

MERCHANTS' INS. CO. v. ALLEN.
Petition for.Rehearing.

evidence adduced in this court, under the leave granted by the
court, to amend the pleadings and introduce new testimony.
The appellant admits "that an over-insurance of the cargo
is not a breach of the warranty by the owner of the vessel
not to insure his interest in the vessel beyond a certain
amount," &c.
That is the decisibn of the court in this case; but in point
of fact there was no insurance by the owners of the vessel on
the cargo.
The new testimony shows an over-insurance on freight, but
not on the merchandise carried-an over-insurance on the.
earnings of the vessel, resulting from the transportation of
the cargo.
All the policies, including those of the Messrs. Baring, are
onfreight, not on cargo. The total insurance on freight wa5
$21,670.
The insurances on freight effected by the Messrs. Baring
were not only made for their own protection, but they were
made at the instance andfor the account of the owners of the
vessel, who were chargedwith the p1remiums and were credited
with the sums yaid by the underwriterswhen the loss occurred.
It is therefore clear that all the insurances were on freight,
and were made for account of the owners of the vessel.
The legal proposition to be disposed of is this: is the overinsurance on feight a violation of the warranty contained in
the policy?
The warranty is in these words" "Warranted by the assured that not more than five thousand dollars' insurance,
including this policy, now exists, nor shall hereafter be cfected
on said interest,either by assured or others, to cover this or any
o.er insurable interest in said interest during the continuance
of this policy."
The policy issued to Allen covered his interest as owner of
one-fourth of the vessel; the policy issued to Weeks covered
his interest as owner of five-twelfths (5-l2ths) of the vessel.
I invite the special attention of the court to the language of
the warranty; it prohibits insurance, by the assured or others,
"to cover this or any other insurableinterest in said interest,"
nor any other interest in the vessel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petition for Rehearing.

The policy c6verecl the interest of the assured as. owners of
the vessel; the warranty prohibited any other insurance of
that interest, as well as any other insurable interest in said
interest.
What is that "other insurable interest in said interest," contemplated by the warranty, and to which its terms are applicable?
Can it be any other than the interest resulting to the owner
from thefact of ownership, and the employment of the vessel ?
What other insurable interest can an owner have in his
vessel than that of owner, and that of carrier? -When his
interest as owner is insured, there remains no other insurable
interest except "the benefit derived by the ship-oWner from
the employment of his ship," and this benefit is freight, as*
defined by Lord Tenterden, in Flint v. Flemying, 1 B. & Ad.,
45, 48.
In this case Lord Tenterden says: "If it be a necessary ingredient in the composition of freight that there should be a
money compensation paid by one person to another, the.benefit accruing to ship-owner from using his own ship to carry
his own goods is not freight. But if the term freight as used
in the policy of insurance import the benefit derived from the
employment of the ship, then there has been a loss of freight.
It is the same thing to the ship-owner, whether he receives
the benefit for the use of his ship, by a money payment from
one person who charters the whole ship, or from various persons who put specific quantities of goods on board, or from
persons who pay him the value of his own goods at the port
of delivery, occasioned by their carriage in his own ship. The
assurer may fairly consider that additional value as freight,
and so term it in the policy."
"The right to freight," says Lord Kenyon, "results from the
right of ownership, and if the plaintiffs have no title to the
ship they have no interest in freight." Camden v. Anderson,
5 T. R. 109. In the same case, Mr. Justice Ashhurst says
that "an action to recover freight can only be maintained in
consequence of ownership."
Duer, in his work on Insurance, ยง 42, says: "Insurance, in

MERCHANTS' INS. CO. v. ALLEN.
retition for Rehearing.

reference to the subjects upon which the policy attaches are.
divided into insurance upon the vessel and insurance upon the
cargo or goods. It is true that various interests besides that
of actual ownership connected with or growing out of these
subjects, 'such a, freight, profits, commissions, &c., may be the
subject of an insurance and supply the measure of the indemnity to which the assured is entitled; but in all cases, the vessel
or cargo, or both, constitute the subject to which the risks of the
policy directly apvly andfrom the loss of which the claim for
an idemnity must arise."
So intimately united are the ship and the freight, that Mr.
Benecke recommends "the insurance of ship and freight jointly
as one indivisible risk in the same policy." Benecke, Ins. 57.
In some parts of the continent of Europe freight not earned
cannot be insured, and for the same reason that seamen's
wages are not insurable. "By leaving the freight to be earned
uncovered, thie master has stronger inducements to be vigilant.
in the preservation of the ship and cargo." 3 Kent's Com.
270.
Mr. Lowndes, in his work on Marine Insurance, says: "A,
great part of the confusion which runs through some branches
of the English law of insurance, is occasioned by the want of a
clear apprehension of the true relation between the ship, considered as a subject of insurance or a commodity of value, and
her freight. This can only be rensoved, I think, by rightly
understanding what it is that. constitutes the value of a ship.
A ship is a mere machine for earning freights, and her value is
represented by the preent or capitalized value of her future
earnings, added to what she may eventually fetch for breaking
up. This is obvious at a glance in the case of a ship so nearly
worn out as to be only fit for one voyage more; such a ship
being evidently worth to her owner what she will earn on that
voyage "and what he can then break her up for. The principle is of course the same in cases where the calculation may.
be more difficult. The ship's value in the market is no more
than a rough approximation to this result, made by.a number
of persons; for the price a man will offer for a ship in the
market must at last be regulated by or find its maximum in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Petition for Rehearing.

the amount he expects to earn by 'employing her. This being
so, it is evident that the freight which at any given moment a
ship is engaged in earning is a constituent part of the ship's
value at that 'moment, just as much as any of her future
freights.

.

.

This might lead us to the conclusion that it

is not right to insure both ship and freight, for if the freight
is only a part of the ship's value, to insure both would be to.
insure the whole and a part too.
"There are, however, great practical conveniences in insuring
freight by itself, particularly because the earning or losing of
the freight once contracted for may depend on contingencies
separate from the ship; for instance, the ship may be -lost and
yet the freight carried by transshipment, or the ship may be
saved and the freight lost- because the cargo is lost. But then
if the freight is insured by itself, the fact ought to be recognized that what remains of the ship's value, after excluding
this freight, is a portion only of its entire value."
The words "any other insurable interest in said interest"
are significant. An insurable interest, says Mr. Justice Gross,
in Boehm v. Bell, 8 T. R. 154, is not to be confounded "with,
an absolute indefeasible interest." "It is not pretended the
insured had the absolute property in the subject of insurance;
neither need they have such property to make the policy legal;
it is sufficient if they had an insurable interest."
Lord Eldon said he was unable to define what an insurable
-interest was, -unless it was a right in the property or a right
derivable out.of some contract about the property. 1 Phill.
Ins. pp. 129, 130. And this court, in the case of Buck v. C ,esqpoake In. Co., 1 Pet. 151, 163, say: "That the term interest,
as used in application to the right to insure, does not necessarily
imply property in the subject of insurance."
In this case the assured warrants the insurer against. any
other insurance to cover this or-any othter insurable iteredt in
said interest. The termis "this interest" manifestly apply to
the right of property of the-assured in the vessel; the terms
"any other insurable interest in'said interest" manifestly
mean any other right derivable out of some contract about the
property.

MERCHANTS' INS. CO. v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

As the court has decided the case on the evidence adduced,
I have refrained from discussing the question of practice
whether since the act of 1875 new testimony can be taken
after an appeal in admiralty in this court? I presume if that
question is a serious one, the court will allow further argument.
Respectfully submitted,
THOS. J. SE mms,

Of Coun elfor Petitioner.
I hereby certify, that in my opinion the foregoing application for a rehearing is well founded in law.
THos. J. SE.MMs.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE WXuTE delivered the opinion of the court.

The ground of this application is, that the court committed
an error on the former hearing in finding as a fact that the
other ihsurance shown by the new testimony was on the cargo
and not on the freight to be earned by the voyage. There
were six policies proven- one in the Portland Lloyds for
$2000, another in the Crescent City Company of New Orleans
for $3000, another in the Merchants' Marine of Bangor, Maine,
for $4000, another in the Union of Bangor for $2000, and
two others in Lloyds of London, England, each for ยฃ1100.
Those in the Crescent; City and London Lloyds describe a risk
on cargo, and nothing else. Baring Brothers & Company
effected the insurance in London, as they say, by "two policies of insurance upon part of the freight of the ship Orient."
Charles E Rice, the secretary of the Crescent City Company,
says he issued that policy "on the interest of John Baker, on
the freight list of the ship Orient." Construing the language
of the other three policies as meaning the same thing as those
which were clearly on the cargo, we did not consider it necessaryat the former hearing to do more than decide, as we did,
that an insurance on cargo was not a breach of the warranty
in' the Policies sued on. But if it be otherwise, and the policies
in the other three companies were on the freight to be earned
by the voyage and not on the cargo simply, we see no occa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

sion for a reargumont of the case, as we are all of opinion that
such an insurance would not be a breach of the covenant of
the insured not to insure their respective interests in the vessel,
"or any other insurable interest in said interest, during the
continuance of this policy," beyond the specified amounts.
Reheaing denied.

ADAMS v.COLLIER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE "UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 20, 1887. - Decided May 27, 1887.

When an assignee in bankruptcy files a petition in the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, under ยง 5063 of the Revised Statutes, showing a
dispute between him and others, as to property which has come into hispossession, or which is claimed by him, the court -all parties interested
appearing, and asking a determination of the dispute -has power to de.termine, at least, the question of title.
Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes, prescribing the limitation of two
years as to suits touching any property or rights of property traisferable
to or vested in an assignee in bankruptcy, applies as well to suits by
the assignee as to suits against him.
When an assignee files his petition in the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, showing a dispute between him and others as to property in his
possession as such assignee, and the parties sued appear and unite in the
prayer for th4 determination of the suit, and tle assignee, after the expiration of two years, without the consent of the defendants dismisses his
suit and files a bill in equity in the Circuit Court covering substantially
the same object, the latter suit is to be deemed a continuation of the
former for the purposes of limitation prescribed by. 5057 of the Revised
Statutes.
An assignee in bankruptcy has no standing-to impeach a voluntary conveyance made by the bankrupt to his children prior to.the adjudication in
bankruptcy, unless such conveyance was void because of fraud; and, in
Georgia, it is not fraudulent and void when the 'property conveyed
forms an inconsiderable part of the grantor's estate, and there is no
purpose to hinder and delay creditors. Only existing creditors have a
right to assail such a conveyance. The assignee, there being no fraud,
takes only such rights as the bankrupt had.

