OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

the relator under the act of March 23, 1868, and as to him are,
therefore, null and void by force of the Constitution of the
United States; and that the laws of Missouri, for the collection of the tax necessary to pay his judgment, in force at the
time when it was rendered, continue to be and are still in
force for that purpose. They are the laws of the state which
are applicable to his case. When he seeks and obtains the
writ of mandamus from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the purpose of levying a tax for the payment of
the judgment which it has rendered in his favor, he asks and
obtains only the enforcement of the laws of Missouri under
which his rights became vested, and which are preserved for
his benefit by the Constitution of the United States. The
question, therefore, is not whether a tax shall be levied in
Missouri without the authority of its law, but which of several
of its laws arein force and govern the case. Our conclusion is,
that the statutory provisions relied upon by the respondent in
his return to the alternative writ of mandamus do not apply,
and do not, therefore, afford the justification which he pleads.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly aJfirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS 6AS LIGHT COMPANY v. KERR
MURRAY MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

THE DISTRICT OF

STATES

FOR

=1INESOTA.

Argued May 9, 1887.-Decided May 27j,187.

From the evidence in this case the court is satisfied that the verbal contract
which forms the subject of the controversy did not Jix any time for the
completion of the work, and that the work was completed within a reasonable time; and it affirms the decree of the court below.

LNT equity to enforce a mechanics' lien. Decree for the complainant. The respondent appealed. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.

MINNEAPOLIS GAS CO. v. KERR MffURRAY CO. 301
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Anson B. Jzcksom for appellant.
was with him on .tebrief.

-Mr. P.

[. Babcock

.3f'. George C. Squires for appellee.
Ia.

TusTioE MLTTEws

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellee, who was complainant below, a corporation of Indiana( and a citizen of that
state, for the purpose of enforcing a mechanics' lien-under the
laws of Minnesota for the price and value of a certain gasholder, alleged to have been coiistructed and erected by it
upon the premises of the appellant.
The bill avers that on or about the 19th day of February,
1881, at the instance and request of the defendant, the plaintiff erected and constructed for the defendant one telescopic
gas-holder, at the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota, at the agreed
price of $9070, and that said gas-holder was in all things manufactured, put up, and erected in a good, substantial, and workmanlike manner, and was reasonably worth said sum of $9070;
that the defendant also agreed to pay the plaintiff the expense
of labor and material e4ended by the plaintiff in erecting the
scaffolding for the construction of said gas-holder, and that
said cost was the sum of $138.25, and that said gas-holder was
erected upon certain described real estate belonging to defendant; that the defendant has paid on account of the construction of said gas-holder and cost of said scaffolding the sum of
.$3792.74, and no more, and demands judgment against the
defendant for th'e suhm of $5415.51, and that such judgment
may be decreed to be a lien upon- the said 'gas-holder and
the lands upon which the same is situated.
The answer admits that the contract price'of said gas-holder
was the sum of $9070; denies that the defendant agreed to
pay for such scaffolding, and denies that said gas-holder was
worth the sum of $9070, and avers that the same was of no
greater value than the sim of $4070 ; avers that the defendant
has paid the plaitiff on account of said gas-holder, in cash,
the sum of $1953.84; that the defendant delivered the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

coke on account of said gas-holder of the value of $1440.46;
denies that said gas-holder was erected upon the lands of the
defendant, and avers that the same is personal property, and
avers that the same was erected and constructed under an
express contract, by the terms of which said gas-holder was to
be constructed in exact accordance with ceritain plans and
specifications" which form a part of said contract; avers that
said gas-holder was not constructed according to said contract
or said plans and specifications, or in a good and workmanlike
manner; avers that by reason of the same not having been
constructed according to said contract, plans, and specifications, the same has never been fit for the purpose for which it
was built; and has never worked in a manner contemplated by
said contract, and has always been an imperfect holder; avers
that the difference in value between said holder as constructed
and what it would have been if constructed in acdordance with
said contract is the sum of $5000; avers that by the terms of
said contract it was expressly agreed. that the plaintiff should
have the iron and other material necessary to build, construct,
and fully complete said holder in the city of Minneapolis within
sixty days after being notified by the defendant to produce the
same, and to fully complete said gas-holder on or before the
15th day of November, 1880.
That the defendant notified the plaintiff on or about the 1st
lay of July, 1880, that it was ready for it to ship said material, and that the defendant, at great cost, erected and fully
completed the tank and building, in which said gas-holder.
was to be placed, on the 1st day of September, 1880, so far
as the defendant had agreed to construct the same, 'but that
the plaintiff, disregarding its contract,' did not ship to and
produce said material at the. city of Minneapolis until the
winte'r of 1880 and "1881, and did not pretend to have completed said holder until the '19th day of February, 1881,.and
tha 'the defendant has never consented to or waived the
breach- 6f said contract, as above alleged; avers that between
the 1.5th day of November, 1880, and the 19th day !of February,' 1881 the defendant was engaged in the business of
manufacturing furnishing, and selling gas to the city of Min-

MINNEAPOLIS GAS CO. v. KERR MURRAY CO. 303
Opinion of the Court.

neapolis and the citizens thereof, and that, had the plaintiff
constructed and completed said gas-holder on or before said
15th day of November, 1880, the defendant would have made
a large amount of profit upon the gas it could and would have
manufactured, furnished, and sold between said 15th day of
INovember, 1880, and the 19th day of February, 1881, to wit,
the sum of $6757.89, and that, by reason of said plaintiff- not
completing said gas-holder within the time specified in the contract, the defendant was deprived of such profit and was
thereby directly damaged in the sum of $6757.89, and demands judgment against the plaintiff for the sum of $9082.19,
with interest thereon since the 19th day of February, 1881.
The replication denies all the averments of the answer.
On final hearing the court below found the facts to be as
follows:
"On May 28, 1880, the complainant concluded a verbal contract with the defendant for the construction and completion,
ready for use, of a telescopic gas-holder at Minneapolis, according to certain written specifications furnished by the complainant. The defendant was to notify the complainant when'
to purchase the sheet-iron to be used in manufacturing the
holder, and was to have the benefit of any fluctuation in the
price of the iron between the date of the contract and the
day when notice was given. No time was fixed when the
gas-holder should be completed ready for use, though the defendant was anxious it should be ready by November 1, 1880,
or in the early fall. The contract price was $9070, and the
holder was completed and accepted about February 19, 1881,
and has been in part paid for. It is not constructed of the
material required by the specifications, and does not fulfil in
every respect the rcquirements of the contract.
"The complainant, by the terms of the contract, was required to erect the gas-holder at Minneapolis and complete it
ready for use, and this necessitated scaffolding as the work
progressed. Although there is a conflict of testimony about
furnishing the scaffolding, I am of the opinion that the complairiant waived the clause in the original specifications, which
require 'the gas compa.ny to furnish the necessary scaffolding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

&c.' The iron used in the manufacture of the holder is not
of the kind and quality called for in the specifications, and
the difference in price is three-quarters of a cent per *pound.
The complainant did not furnish .guard-rails and braces, as
required, which were worth about $50, and has not paid for
stoves it used during the construction of the holder, which
were purchased by the defendant at, the price of $61.30. It
would also require an expenditure of $10 to properly adjust
the holder, which slightly tipped. The defendant has paid on
account of construction $3792.74, to which complainant concedes iii addition a credit of $894."
A decree was rendered in favor of the complainant for
$3586.96, with interest from February 19, 1881, being for
the amount of the contract price, less deductions on account of
payments and the allowances mentioned.
In opposition to the conclusions of the Circuit Court, the
appellant now insists:
1st. That, by the terms of the contract between the parties,
the gas-holder was to have been finished and in place on or
before the 15th of November, 1880.
2d. That, on account of the delay between that date and
February 19, 1881, when the work was completed, the appellant was entitled to the profit it would have made on the manufacture and sale of gas during-that interval, amounting, as is
claimed, to the sum of $6757.89. The rule for the ascertainment of these profits, as stated and claimed by counsel gor the
appellant, is as follows:
"Given a fixed number of pipes of given dimensions for conducting the illuminating fluid from a holder of ample storage
capacity to a given number of consumers, who desire and are
ready to pay for all the gas which the standard pressure can
supply during certain hours, and it becomes a naere matter of
mathematics to ascertain the precise number of thousan'd feet
which would be thus supplied and sold. It is equally a matter
of arithmetic to ascertain the number of feet supplied through
the same pipes, with one-half or one-third the proper pressure.
And the difference multiplied by the net profit per thousand
feet gives the precise amount lost by the loss of pressure and
storage capacity."

MINNEAPOLIS GAS CO. v. KERR 21URRAY CO. 305
Opinion of the Court.

It was in testimony on the part of the appellan.t, that the
gas cost for its manufacture $1.50 per 1000 feet, and that the
company obtained from its customers 83.50 per 1000 feet,
making a profit of $2.00 on every 1000 feet. The assumption
was that the whole amount of gas which could have been
made by the use of the new gas-holder during the period of.
delay, by the increased pressure, would have been forced
through the pipes into consumption, without addition to the
number of consumers, and that it would have amounted to the
sum mentioned.
3d. That a much larger sum than $675, being at the rate of
three-fourths of a cent per pound on the quantity of iron used,
should have been allowed for the difference in value between
the gas-holder as constructed, and its value if it had been constructed according to the contract; the claim being, under this
head, that the contract called for annealed iron, whereas that
actually furnished was common iron, and not suitable for the
purpose.
We have carefully examined and weighed all the evidence
in the case bearing on the facts in dispute. We are clearly of
opinion that the contract as made did not fix any time for the
completion of the work. On the contrary, it was left indefinite at the time of the making of the contract at the request
of the appellant itself, who desired to postpone the time for
ordering the iron as long as possible, so that it might get the
benefit of any fluctuation in the p.rice. After the final order
was given, it is true that the appellant endeavored to hasten
the period for the final completion of the work ; but there was
no subsequent agreement fixing any precise date, and its actual
completion, which took place on February 19, 1881, we find to
have been within a reasonable time. As, therefore, there was
no delay beyond the time fixed for its completion by the
proper construction of the terms of the agreement, we are relieved from the necessity of considering the question of the
alleged loss of profits.
An allowance was made by the Circuit Court in the decree
of $675 as a difference in value between the gas-holder as fur-'
nished, and as required by the contract, on account of inferiVOL. CxxII-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

ority in the quality of the material used and of the workman.
ship. We are satisfied, from an examination of the testimony,
that this allowance ought not to be increased. There is no
sufficient proof that the iron used was not annealed iron.
The ecree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, aflrmed.

HARSHM il

. KNOX COUNTY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AISSOURI.
Submitted April 22,1887. - Decided May 27,1887.
Allegations of material facts and of traversable facts in a declaration
which are necessary to be proved in order to support a recovery, are
confessed by a default; and in mandamus against the proper municipal
officers to enforce the collection of a tax to pay the judgment entered
against a municipal corporation upon such default, the respondent is
estopped from denying such allegations.
Mandamus to enforce the collection of a tax to pay a judgment against a
municipal corporation being a remedy in the nature of an execution,
nothing can be alleged by the respondent to contradict the record of the
judgment.
Balls County v. United States, 105, U. S. 733, explained.

THIs was a proceeding by mandamus against the Justices of
the county court of Knox County to compel them to levy a
tax sufficient to pay a judgment for $77,374.46, obtained by the
relator, Harshman, on the 28th of March, 1881, against that
county, in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri.

The information alleged that "said judgment was recovered
upon bonds and coupons issued by the said county in part
payment of a subscription made by the said county on the 9th
day of June, 1867, to the capital stock of the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company, a railroad company duly
organized under the laws of the state of Missouri; that said
subscription was authorized, by a vote of the people of said
county at a special election held pursuant to an order of the

