528

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

McLEOD v. FOURTH NATIONAL BANK OF ST.
LOUIS.
ERROR TO' THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED'STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF 3MISSOURL
Argued April 27, 1887.-Decided May 27,1887.
The transcript of the evidence at the trial of this case, which is contained
in the bill of exceptions, dois not-connect the defendant in error with
the frauds which gave rise to this suit.

Tins was an action at law.
ion of the court.

The'case is stated in the opin-

_Jft. Frederick N. J&soni for plaintiffs in error.
H. Overall was with him on the brief.

XrM.John

.M. G. A. Fnkednurg for defendant in error. Mr. George
A. .adill was with him onthe brief.
MR. JUsTIoE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ. of error to the Circuit Court of the. United
States for the Eastern, District of Missouri.
The plaintiffs in error were the plaintiffs in the original
action, the gravame. of which was that the defendant, the
Fourth National Bank of St. Louis, conspired with the firm of
Norvell, Camfield & Co., who were dealers in cotton in that
city, to obtain from the plaintiffs, McLeod & Reid, residing in
the city of Glasgow, Scotland, the acceptance of a draft
drawn by Norvell, Camlield & Co. upon said plaintiffs for six
thousand pounds sterling, and that this draft was accompanied
by a fraudulent bill of lading, on the strength of which plaintiff6 accepted and were compelled to pay it. The bill of lading
was for a certain number of bales of cotton, which were
falsely represented to contain 276,850 pounds, whereas the
aggregate weight of these bales when re-weighed at the place
of delivery was only 192,385 pounds.

McLEOD v. BANK OF ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

That this bill of lading was false, that it was gotten up by.
fraud, and that this fraud deceived the plaintiffs, there is no
question. Nor is there any doubt that the fraud was perpetrated by Norvell, Camfield & Co. 'The case was tried before
a.jury on the general issue, by which the bank denied all the
allegations of fraud, and in general everything charged in the
declaration. The court refused several requesti to charge
made by the plaintiffs with regard to the connection of the
bank with this fraud, and in the end peremptorily instructed
the jury.that there was no evidence to support such an allegation of fraud on the part of the defendant, and that they
must find for the bank.
This bill of exceptions, like so many others that we find in
the records that have been sent up to us recently, is simply a
stenographic report of all'that took place at the trial, and we
are expected to consider the whole of this evidence and pick
out such portions of it as may be pertinent to the issue, as if
addressed to us originally, and to ascertain whether there was
any evidence which should have been left to the jury on the
question of the participation of the defendant in the fraud.
The main facts in the case are substantially as follows:
Norvell, Camfield & Co. were dealers in cotton in St. Louis.
They bought this commodity throughout the cotton region,
brought it to that city, and then sold it in the markets of the
Eastern States and of Europe. ,To enable them to carry on
their extensive business they required large advances from the
capitalists of St. Louis, and these were obtained mainly from
its banks. The defendant bank in this case had so advanced
them about sixty-four thousand dollars, and in every instance,
as such advances were made, the firm deposited with the bank
what were known as "cotton notes." These were instruments
made by a warehouse company, whose business it was to rece;ve and take care of cotton until it was s.old, or its delivery
demanded by the person who originally deposited it in the
warehouse, or by some holder of the cotton notes. Each note
represented a bale of cotton, and the following is the forni of
these instruments in general use in that business:
- , one bale of
"[No. of bale.] Received in store ofVOL. cxxn-34

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

cotton, in apparent good order, of the above number and following marks, [marks, if any,] deliverable to bearer upon return of this receipt, and payment of warehouse charges, risk
of fire excepted.
(Signed)

,

Secretary."

The cotton of Norvell, Camfield & Co., which is the subject
of this controversy, was stored in the warehouse of the St.
Louis Cotton Compress Company, and the notes therefor
were in the hands of the bank, when Camfield, one of that
firm, without obtaining the notes from the bank, or any
orders from it, had a very large amount of this cotton transferred to a cotton "pickery," as it was called. There the
bales were opened, the cotton picked, reassorted, and repacked, and the tags with the numbers on them, which
represented the cotton as it was originally delivered to the
warehouse company, reattached to these readjusted bales. In
doing this, the quantity of cotton in each bale was so much
reduced that the .difference was made, which we have already
stated, between the amount which was called for by the bill
of lading and the amount which was received in Glasgow .
By what means Camfield obtained the cotton from the
warehouse without the production of the notes is not explained, nor is it very material in this case, as there is no
evidence to show that the bank had anything to do with that
transaction, but was informed of it after it was over and the
cotton returned to the warehouse. Upon being so informed
it took some steps to ascertain the amount of the loss it might
incur by this multiplication of the bales out of this same
cotton, had some fifteen or sixteen bales re-weighed, and
balled upon Camfield to put up further margins, which he
did.
During this time, or shortly afterwards, and while the
matter remained in this condition, Mr. lNorvell, who was in
Europe, negotiated the sale of this cotton to the plaintiffs, and
Mr. Camfield, his partner in St. Louis, forwarded it to Glasgow by way- of New York. In doing this, he forwarded it
by railroad from St. Louis to the Atlantic coast, and took

]IcLEOD v. BANK OF ST. LOUIS.
Opinion of the Court.

from the transportation company at St. Louis a bill of lading,
describing the bales by their numbers and weights, which
amounted to the aggregate number of pounds already stated.
In order to obtain these bales for shipment from the warehouse company, Camfield had to produce the notes which
were in the possession of the bank. Of course he could only
do this by the bank intrusting him with the notes for the
short time necessary to make the shipment and procure the
bill of lading, when, having delivered up the notes to the warehouse company in order to get possession of the cotton for
shipment, he was to return the bill of lading, which represented the cotton, to the bank.
In all cases of shipments of this character from St. Louis to
the Eastern States or Europe, the transportation company, on
giving its bill of lading, requires a re-weighing of the cotton
upon delivery to it, and, upon that being done, the weights
are marked upon the bales or certified by the weigher in a
schedule or statement. There are persons appointed for this
special purpose of re-weighing cotton for transshipment. It is
upon the strength of this re-weighing that the transportation
company makes out its bill of lading.
What was done in the present case was, that Camfleld
induced the clerk, or other officer who made out this bill of
lading, to accept his own statement of the weight of the bales
and to give his bill of lading accordingly, without ever having
the cotton re-weighed or having any certificate of the reweigher thereto. The number of bales was all right; but in
this way, Camfield obtained from the transportation company
a false bill of lading. Upon this Camfield, in the name of his
firm, Korvell, Camfield & Co., drew his draft upon the plaintiffs at Glasgow, at sixty days, for a sum corresponding to the
amount in the bill of lading, and to the contract price which
Norvell had made with them in Europe. This draft the defendant bank declined to buy, and Norvell, who had returned
to America, negotiated and sold it to Knoblauch & Lichtenstein, bankers in the city of New York, and the money, or so
much of it as was necessary to pay its debt, was turned over
to the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Of course the plaintiffs, who had accepted the draft on its
presenfation with the bill of lading, were bound to pay it at
its maturity, although in the meantim they had discovered
the discrepancy between the' amount of the cotton actually
shipped and that described in the bill of ladifig.
The defendant bank never indorsed this bill of lading; it
was never maae payable to it. It never did anything to give
it currency or to make itself responsible for its accuracy, and
it was no party to the bill of exchange. The whole case of
the plaintiffs is, that, having received the proceeds of 'the sale
of this bill of lading from Knoblauch & Lichtenstein in discharge of the debt ofiNorvell, Caifield & Co. to the bank, it
so acted in regard to the matter as to be a participant in the
fraud which was practised by that firm. The wholq case then
turns upon the truth of this allegation.
It is attempted to be supported. principally upon the ground
that ,Mr. Biebinger, who was the cashier of the .bank, was
aware of the change made in the quantity of cotton in -the
"pickery," where it was.re-baled. But it does not appear that
he, or any other officer of the bank, had any reason to suppose
that the number of bales re-packed at that establishment was
very considerable.
They had fifteen or sixteen 6f them
weighed, and called upon Camfield to make good the deficiency, so far as they knew of it, which. he did. This was all
that concerned -them; they were only acting for themselves;
there was no obligation-between them and anybody else at
that time to disclose this, matter, as there was nobody then
interested in the property but the bank and the firm. They
might very well have supposed that whenever this cotton was
sold by the firm and was to be delivered, that the rule for reweighing would be complied with, and that the purchaser of
the cotton, or of the bill of lading, or of the bill of exchange
drawn on it, would have seen to his own security in that matter, and would have relied, as he had a right to -do, upon the
sufficiency of the process of re-weighing for that protection.
It is very clear from the evidence, and it is undisputed, that
this re-weighing is the uniform and regular custom, and that
it constitutes the evidence of the weiglt of the bales in tho

MoLEOD v. BANK OF ST. LOUIS.
-Opinion of the Court.

final sale by the cotton dealer of St. Louis to the purchaser in
the Eastern or European market. Is there any evidence to
show that the bank was guilty of any fraud, or of any negligence which amounted to a fraud, or had any design to cheat
anybody in this matter? When Camfield notified them that
the cotton had been sold, and that he wanted to ship it, the
use of the cotton notes, which they held as security for the
amounts due to them, was necessarily to be intrusted to one
of the owners, or to one of their agents, for the purpose of
getting the cotton out of the warehouse. It could not remain
there and at the same time go East; neither could it be obtained from the warehouse for shipment without the use and
delivery of the notes. For the short time necessary to ship
this cotton and obtain the bill of lading it was a matter of necessity, as well as a custom, unless the bank would undertake
the business for itself, to intrust these notes to the shipper in
order that he might do it.
In this we see no injury to the plaintiffs. All the risk involved in it was borne by the defendant, -who trusted Camfield
with the notes which represented the -property until he brought
back the evidence that the cotton had been shipped. When
this was done, and Camfield had drawn his draft in the name
of Norvell, Camfield & Co. upon the plaintiffs for the amount
of the cotton; according to the terms of sale, it appears that he
wanted to sell the draft to the bank, but it refused to buy it,
and it was finally negotiated to Knoblauch & Lichtenstein in
New York, and the money placed to the credit of the defendant bank there.
In order to sustain the argument arising out of this transadtion, that the defendant bank was itself cognizant of this fraud,
and that it was practised for its benefit, it is argued by plaintiffs' counsel that the bank was the owner of the cotton.. If
this proposition is in any way pertinent to the inquiry, it is
not true. The bank never had anything more than a pledge
of the cotton as a security for the payment of its debt. The
real ownership of the property always remained in Norvell,
Camfield & Co. They could sell it at any time; and, after the
payment of the debt due to the bank, receive the remainder;

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

if it had been sold for less than the debt to the bank, the loss
would have been theirs, and n'ot the bank's, if they were solvent.
This firm did sell the cotton; it was not sold by the bank;
they shipped it, and the bank did not even accept their bill of
exchange drawn against the cotton in payment of their debt,
but insisted on getting the money, and therefore the bill of
exchange was sold in the citl of New York.
The essential ownership of the cotton during all the time of
this transaction was in Norvell, Camfield & Co., and any loss
upon it was their loss, any profit upon it was their profit, and
the bank only bad this modified control of it by means of the
cotton notes of the warehouse company, which, in effect, they
relinquished when they delivered those notes to Camfield.
Their actual control over the cotton, or over its proceeds,
ceased with the delivery, and their acceptance of the proceeds
of the draft at the hands of the New York bankers, who
bought it, was a thing they had a right to do, both in honor
and according to all sound rules of mercantile law.
Certain letters of introduction, given by the defendant bank
to Mr. Norvell on a visit to Europe, made by him, and certain
very guarded answers to inquiries made by a Dutch house in
Europe as to his character and -responsibility, are introduced
to show that the bank was using this means of enabling Noryell to raise the money for them by selling the cotton. We
do hot think these letters have any tendency to prove any
such thing. And without going into the large7 mass of testimony on this subject, having considered the main and turning
points in the controversy, and the principal points upon which
plaintiffs rely to establish the fraud upon the part of the bank,
we -are of opinion that the Circuit Court was right in telling
the jury that there was no such evidence as justified them in
finding a verdict for the plaintiffs.
Judgment affmed.

