OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

ARGENTINE MINING CO. v. TERRIBLE ]JMNG CO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued April 21, 1887. -- Decided May 27, 1887.

V. sued to recover mining ground. Defendant answered, and V. filed a
replication. V. transferred his interest in tie mine to a company. The
company appeared, was substituted as Dlaintiff, and filed a new complaint,
substantially identical with the first, to which the defendant filed a new
answer, substantially like the first answer. No replication was filed to
this. The parties went to trial without objection for want of a plea of
replication, and judgment was entered for plaintiff. Held, That it was
too late to take the objection in this court.
The instructions asked by the defendant below were sound in law; but their
refusal worked him no injury, as, when the jury found the disputed fact
in favor of the plaintiff, the principle involved in the instruction asked
cut off the right asserted by the defendant.
When there are surface outcroppings from the same vein within the
boundaries of two claims, the one first located necessarily carries the
right to work the vein.
When a mining claim crosses the course of the lode or vein insterd of
being "along thd vein or lode," the end lines are those which measure
the width of the claim as it crosses tie lode: and thus thp lines which
separate the locations of the parties in this case are end lines across
which, as they are extended downward vertically, the defendant cannot
follow a vein, even if the apex or outcr6pping is within its surface
boundaries.

THE following is the. statement of the case made by the
court.
This is an action to recover certain mining ground, being
part of what is known as the Adelaide Lode in Lake County,
Colorado, lying within the California.Mining District. It was
originally brought in the name of Frederick S. Van Zandt, who
claimed to be the owner of the lode. Subsequently he transferred his interest to a corporation, created under the laws of
New York,- known as the Terrible Mining Company, and by
consent of parties that company was substituted as plaintiff in
the action. To the original complaint an answer was filed by

ARGENTINE CO. v

TERRIBLE CO.

Statement of the Case.

the defendant, the Argentine Mining Company, a corporation
created under the laws of iMissouri, to which a replication was
made. To the complaint, amended by the substitution of the
Terrible Mining Company as plaintiff, a new answer, substantially the same as the one to the original complaint, was filed,
but it does not appear from the record that any replication
was made to it. The parties seem to have considered the replication to the original answer as sufficient, for the trial was
had without any reference to this omission. Its absence cannot be made in this court, for the first time, a ground of objection to the subsequent proceedings. Nor do we consider
counsel of the plaintiff in error as making any point upon the
omission, although he calls our attention to it.
The plaintiff below, defendant in error here, is the owner of
the Adelaide mining claim. The defendant below, plaintiff in
error, is the owner of three other mining claims, called, respectively, the "Camp Bird," the "Pine," and the" Charlestown"
lode claims. All these claims lie in the same mining district.
The Adelaide claim was located in 1876. The other claims
were located in 1877. The Adelaide claim occupies on the
surface longitudinally a northeast and southwest direction.
The Pine, Camp Bird, and Charlestown claims occupy a position nearly north and south, with end lines practically east
and west, thus crossing diagonally the Adelaide claim. During the summer of 1880, the defendant below carried its mining operations through its qwn ground into the Adelaide
claim, and it justifies its action in this respect by asserting
that in doing so it followed a vein which has its outcrop, or
apex, within the surface of its own locations. It cites § 2322,
Revised Statutes, in support of its position. That section provides that locators of mining claims, previously or subsequently
made, on any mineral vein, lode, or ledge on the public domain,
to which no adverse iight existed on the 10th of May, 1872,
"so long as they comply with the laws of the United States,
and with state, territorial, and local regulations not in conflict
with the laws of the United States governing their possessory
title, shall have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within the lines of their loca-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

tions, and of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their entire
depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines
extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes, or
ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their course
downward as to extend outside the vertical side lines of such
surface locations. But their right of possession to such outside
-parts of such veins or ledges shall be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downwarA,
as above described, through the end lines of their locations, so
continued in their own direction that such planes will intersect
such exterior parts of such veins or ledges."
And the defendant requested the court to instruct the jury
as fbllows:
"The law provides that upon a location properly made the
claimant shall have the vein upon which the location is made
and all other veins and lodes having their top or apex in the
territory within the lines of the location, and not only Within
the body of the claim within the lines of the location, but
beyond those lines as far as the vein or lode may, in its descent into the earth, pass beyond those lines and within the
end lines of the location.
"The defendant here claims that the. lode in controversy
originates in its patented territory, by its top or apex, and
descends upon its dip through and under the ground in controversy. If, from the preponderance of evidence you believe
that the top or apex of the lode in controversy does, in fact,
originate within the patented territory of the defendant and
descends upon its dip into the ground in controversy, your
verdict should be for" the defendant."
This instruction the court refused to give, and the defendant excepted.
The court instructed the. jury substantially as follows:
That a statute of the state requires that the discoverer before
filing a location certificate shall lirst locate his claim by sinking a discovery shaft upon the lode to a depth of at least ten
feet from the lowest part of the rim of the shaft at the surface, or deeper if necessary, to show a well-defined crevice;
2d. Shall post at the point of discovery on the surface a plain

ARGENTINE CO. v. TERRIBLE CO.
Statement of the Case.

sign or notice containing the name of the lode, the name of
the location, and the date of the discovery; 3d. Shall mark
the surface boundaries of the claim by six substantial posts;
that to recover a mining claim the plaintiff must show a good
location in compliance with this statute, and thaf means "that
he shall show in his discovery shaft a vein or lode of valuable
ore in rock in place;" that the miner is not boufid to make
the first shaft or opening which he nTay sink his discovery
shaft; he can make any one he may sink such shaft, only he
must have in it a lode or vein. It is not sufficient for him to
find minerals which would yield something, in a fragmentary
condition, in the slide or loose tuff on the surface of the mountain, but he must find it within enclosing rocks in the general
mass of the mountain; and that the question here is, whether
the parties who made the Adelaide location found such a lode
or vein in what they denominated the discovery shaft or
opening, and that this was a matter to be determined by'the
jury; and if they find that the locators male such a discovery,
the next question was, whether the vein extended to the point
in dispute, and that the location was valid only to the
extent of the lode included within it. The court added:
"The question turns upon the validity of the Adelaide location. As I have explained it to you, if you believe it to be a
valid location, well made according.to the law as given in the
statute, you will find for the plaintiff. If you think it was
not so made, you will find foi the defendant." To this charge
the counsel of the defendant excepted, pointing out- the particulars to which he objected. Upon the argument before us,
he adhered to his exception to the closing part of the charge,
because it was not accompanied by the further instruction,
" that if the jury believe from the evidence that the location
of the Adelaide claim was made upon the dip of a vein or
lode whose top or apex was then in and extended through the
patented territory of the defendant, such location of the Ade-!aide claim would, to the extent that it was on the dip of said
vein whose top or apex was so in the defendant's patented
territory, be invalid."
-The jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which
VOL. cx=n -31

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

judgment for the possession of the demanded premises was
entered, and the defendant has brought the case to this court
for review.
Mr. Walter H. Smith for plaintiff in error. Mr. A. T.
Britton and .k. A. B. Browne were with him on the brief.
This writ of error is prosecuted for the sole purpose of
determining the right of a mineral claimant who has the apex
within his surface lines extended vertically downward to follow his vein outside of his own side lines, and into and under
another mineral claim which has a prior location upon the dip
of the lode, but which does not embrace the apex.
Section 2322 of the :Revised Statutes gives the right under
which the plaintiff claims. The language of this section is so
plain that it seems to settle the question. The premises in controversy were outside of the side lines, and within vertical
planes drawn through the end lines of the Pine and Camp
Bird lodes, and just within the side line of the Adelaide.
Now it was in reference to these worldngs and these premises
at this point that the court was asked to charge that if they
found the apex of this vein within the surface lines of the
Argentine claim (which included the Pine and Camp Bird
claims), their verdict should be for the defendant.
The court not only refused so to charge, but it utterly ignored all claim of the defendant on this ground, and held that
it had nothing. to do with the case, but that it turned wholly
upon the validity of the Adelaide location. The defendant
had made, as one of his grounds of defence, the invalidity and
irregularity of the Adelaide location.
This was error. The statute has always been construed by
the Department as we claim it should be construed. The form
of patent in use expressly grants "all other veins, lodes, ledges,
or deposits, throughout their entire- depths, the top or apexes
of which lie inside the exterior lines df said survey at the surface extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes,
ledges, or deposits, in their downward course, may so far depart from a perpendicular as to extend outside the vertical

ARGENTINE CO. v. TERRIBLE CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in-Error.

side lines of said survey;" and excepts from its operation "all
veins, lodes, ledges, or deposits, the tops or.apexes of which -lie
inside the exterior lines of said survey at the surface extended
downward vertically, or which have been therein, discovered
or developed;" and, further. provides, "that the premises
hereby conveyed; with the exception of -the surface, may be
entered by the proprietor of any other vein, lode, ledge, or
deposit, the tc.p or apex 'of. which lies outside the exterior
limits of said survey, should the same, in its downward course,
be found to penetrate, intersect, extend into or underlie the
premises hereby gra'nted for the purpose of extracting arA
removing the ore from such other vein, lode, .ledge, or deposit."
All these provisions are found in the patent for the Camp
Bird Lode and that of the Pine Lode, and they will be
contained in the patent for the Adelaide when it shall be
issued.
If they were not contained in the patent, its legal effect
would be the same.
The fact that the defendant in error made the first location
cannot affect the question iiow presented. The statute must
control

.Xining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 UT. S. 463; Iron Silver

.Xining Co. v. Elgin Mining Co., 118. U. S. 196. It gives to
the locator who has the apex the right to the lode. - A locator.
who makes a location which does not contain th6 apex, takes
his chances of' some other locator who does have the apex,
taking from'him such portion of his lode as lies within the end
lines of the apex claimant.
This precise question has never been determined by this
court; but in the case of Iron Silver .Mining Co. v. C6ees'man,
116 U. S. 529, it was conceded by all parties and the court that
the party having the apex had the right to go outside of his
side lines and follow the vein. Mr. Tustice Miller, in delivering tbe opinion of the court, said: "It is obvious that the vein,
lode, or ledge of which ,the locator may have 'the exclusive
right of possession and enjoyment,' is one whose apex is found
*inside of his surface lines extended vertically; and this right
follows such vein, though in extending downward it may

484:

OCTOBER

TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

dejpart from a perpendicular, and extend laterally outside of
the vertical lines of such survey."
And in T n ,Silve' .XningCo. v. Elgin XMining Co., urja,
Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"This section" (referring to § 2322 Rev. Stat.) "appears sufficiently clear upon its face. There is no patent or latent ambiguityin it. They" (the locators) "have also the exclusive right
of possession and enjoyment ' of all veins, lodes, and ledges
throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies
inside of -such surface lines extended downward, vertically,
although such veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a
perpendicular in their course downward, as to extend outside
the vertical side lines of said suiface locations.' The surface
side lines extended downward vertically determine the extent
of the claim, except when in its descent the vein passes outside
of them, and the outside portions are to lie between vertical
.planes drawn downward through the end lines. This means
the end lines of the surface location,. for all locations are measured on the surface."
No appearance for defendant in error.
MRz;- JusTIcE FrELD, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court, as follows:
The instruction, as requested by the defendant, as a proposition of law is undoubtedly sound. It is substantially a brief
repetition of the language of the statute. Its refusal, however,
did not prejudice the defendant, for a valid location, as defined
by the court, could only be found in favor of the plaintiff in
case the vein discovered by the locators of the Adelaide claim
extended to the ground in dispute. If such were the fact, the
principle involved in the instruction asked, applied to that
claim, cut off -the right asserted by the defendant. If there
was an apex or outcropping of the same vein within the surface of the boundaries of the claims of the defendant, that
company could not extend its workin,a' under the Adelaide
'location, that being of .earlier- date. Assuming that on the

ARGENTINE CO. v. TERRIBLE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

'same vein there were surface outcroppings within the boundaries of both claims, the one first located necessarily carried the
right to work the vein.
But theie are other grounds equally conclusive against the
contention of the defendant below. The instruction asked
assumes that the longest sides of its claims were their side
lines. Such would, undoubtedly, be the case if the locations
of. the claim were along the course or strike of the lode.
The statute undoubtedly contemplates that the location of a
lode or vein claim shall be along the course of the lode or vein.
Its language is: "A mining claim located after the 10th day•
of May, 1872, whether located by one or more persons, may
equal, but shall not exceed, fifteen hundred feet in length along
the vein or lode; but no location of a mining claim 9hall be
made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the limits
of the claim located. No claim shall extend more than three
hundred feet on each side of the middle of the vein at the surface, nor shall any'claim be limited by any mining regulation
to less than twenty-five feet on each side of the middle of the'
vein at the surface, except where adverse rights existing on
the 10th day of -May, 1872, render such limitation necessary.
The end lines of each claim shall be parallel to each other."
Rev. Stat., § 2320.
When, therefore, a mining claim crosses the course of the
lode or vein instead of being "along the vein or lode," the end
lines are those which measure the width of the claim as it
crosses the lode. -Such is evidently the meaning of the statute. The side lines are those which measure the extent of the
claim on each side of the middle of the vein at the surface.
Such is the purport 'of the decision in Xrining Co. v. Tarbet,
98 U. S.463. The court there said, referring to the statute of
1866, 14 Stat. 251, and that of 1812, 17 Stat. 91: "We think
that the intent of both statutes is, that mining locations on
lodes or veins shall be made thereon, lengthwise, in the gener'al
direction of such veins- or lodes on the surface of the earth
where they are discoverable; and that the end lines are to
cross the- lode and extend perpendicularly downwards, and
to be continued intheir own direction-either way horizontally;

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and that the right to follow the dip ouLside of the side lines is
based on the hypothesis that the direction of these lines corresponds substantially with the counse of the lode or vein at
its apex on or near the surface. -It was not the intent of the
law to allow a person to make his location crosswise of the
vein,, so that the side lines shall cross it, and thereby give him
the'right to follow the strike of the vein outside of his side'
lines. * That would subvert the whold system sought to be
established by the law. If he does locate his claim in that
way, his rights must be subordinated to the rights of those
who have properly located on the lode." And again, that the
end lines of the claim, properly so called, are "those which are
crosswise of the general course of the vein on the surface."
Such being thelaw, the lines which separate the location of
the plaintiff below from the locations of the defendant are end
line§, across -vhich, as they are extended downward vertically,
the defendant cannot follow a vein, even if its apex or outcropping is Wvithin 'its surface boundaries,, and, as a consequence, could not touch the premises in dispute, which are
conceded to be outside of those lines and outside of vertical
planes drawn downward through them.
The defendant rclied on the trial upon patents of the 'United
States issued for its several claims, but those patents cottain
an exception which would also seem to exclude its pretensions.
It is as follows, after the habendum clause: "excepting and
excluding, however, all that portion of said surface ground
embraced by mineral survey No. 254: of' the Adelaide mi'nng
claim, and also, excepting and excluding all veins, lodes, or
deposits, the tops or apexes of which lie inside of the, exterior
lines of. said Adelaide siirvey at the Aurf~ce, extnded" down
vertically, pr which have -been hbrein discovered or ,developed."
From a consideration of the whole case we are unable to
perceive any'error which would justify a reversal of the judgment below. It is-acordingly

