UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Syllabus.

of the fact that the draw-heads would pass on a portion of this
siding, and that the fact itself would not be noticed or discovered by a careful and prudent man while engaged in coupling
cars on said siding, then it cannot be said that he was guilty
of contributory negligence, unless it had already come to his
knowledge that the draw-heads would pass."
On this point the judge stated, in his charge, that "he (the
deceased) knew, as he was an experienced man, that draw-bars
do slip sometimes, even upon a straight track, as it has been
testified to, and the sharper the curve the greater was the danger of their slipping." In making this statement the judge
was fully borne out by the testimony, and there was no evidence to contradict it.
We find no error in the judgment, and it is therefore
affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE
dissenting.

MLXLER,

with whom was Mn.

JUSTICE HAtRLx,

I dissent from this judgment, and especially the proposition
that the railroad company owed no duty to its employes in
regard to the sharpness of the curves of the track in the yards
in which they are employed.
An.JU sTICE HARAN

unites in this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERNI

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued April 26, 1887.-

Decided 119y 27, 1887.

Under § 2839 of the Revised Statutes, there can be no recovery by the
United States for a forfeiture of the value of imported merchandise, the
property of its foreign manufacturer, against the person to whom he
ha(' consigned it for sale on commission, and who entered it as such
consignee, the forfeiture being claimed on the ground that the merchandise was entered at invoice prices lower than its actual market value at
the time and place of exportatioii.
'Section 2839 applies only to purchased goods.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.
Section 2864, so far as it provides for a forfeiture of the value of merchandise, is repealed by the provisions of § 12 of the act of June 22, 1874, c.
391, 18 Stat. 188.
The amendment made to § 2864, by the act of February 18, 1875,-c. 80, 18
Stat. 319, by inserting the words "or the value thereof," did not have
the effect of enacting that the value of merchandise is to De iorleited
under § 2864, notwithstanding the act of June 22, 1874, c. 391 'The
object and effiect of the amendment were only to correct an error in the
text of § 2864, and to make it read as it read, when in force, on the lst'
of December, 1873, as a part of § 1 of the act of March 3, 1863, c.'76,
12 Stat. 738.

THis was- an action brought by the United States, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of N~ew York, against Clement A. Auffmordt, John F. Dagener, William Degener, and Adolph William Von Kessler,
composing the firm of C. A. Auffmordt & Co., to recover
the sum of $321,519.29 with interest.
The. complaint alleged violations by the defendants of
statutes of the United States in respect to entries of imported
merchandise made by the defendants in 1879, 1880, 1881, and
1882, the value of such merchandise being tht -above-named
sum, and claims that by reason of the acts 6f the defendants
alleged in the complaint the defendants have forfeited such
value to the United States. The defendants put in an
answer containing a general denial, and the case was tried
in the District Court before a jury.
After the case was opened to the jury on the part of the
United States, and before any testimony was offered, the defendants moved, upon such opening, that the court direct a
verdict for the defendants, on the ground that there was no
statute of the United States whereby the value of the merchandise could be recovered by reason of the acts alleged to
have been committed by the defendants as consignees of the
goods, which was the capacity in which they received and
entered the goods, the goods being the property of the manufacturers of them in Switzerland, and being consigned to the
defendants for sale on commission. The facts sought to be
proved against the, defendants were that they, knowingly and
with intent to defraud the revenue, entered the goods at in-

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

voice prices lower than their actual market value at the time

and place of exportation. The court ruled that there was no
existing statute of the United States under which the .plaintiff
could recover upon any possible proof, and that a verdict must
be directed for the defendants. 19 Fed. Rep. 893. The plaintiffs excepted to this ruling.
Xr . Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
Two propositions are proposed to be iimaintained by the govermnent in this case:
1. The merchandise for whose value suit was brought, was,
under the evidence offered, subject to forfeiture.
2. As the merchandise was subject to forfeiture, the United
States were entitled to recover its value without seizure of the
goods.
As applicable to the first of these propositions, the following
statutes are cited: § 2839, Revised Statutes, originally enacted
as the 66th section of the act 2d March, 1799; so much of §
2841 as is material, originally § 4 of the act of 1st March,
1823; § 2845, originally § 8 of the act of March 1, 1823; §
2854, originally the first part of § 1 of the act of the 3d March,
1863 ; § 2864, originally part of § 1 of the act of March 3,1863;
§ 12 of the act of June 22, 1874, Supplement to Revised Statutes, page 79.
The remaining question is, can the United States recover
the full value of the invoice or packages without a seizure of
the goods?
The rule to be applied in the construction of revenue laws
involving forfeiture is stated by Justice Swayne in the case of
O iquotgs Oiapagne,3 Wall. 114, 145, to be as follows: "Revenue laws are not penal laws in the sense that requires them
to be construed with great strictness in favor of the defendant.
They are rather to be regarded as remedial in their character,.
and intended to prevent fraud, suppress public wrong,, and
promote public good. They should be so construed as to cayrr
out the intention of the legislature in passing them and most
effectually accomplish these- objects." See -also Taylor v.
United States, 3 How. 197, 210.

OCTQBER TERM, 188G.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Sections 2S39 and 2864 both expressly provide for the forfeiture of merchandise or its value. If, then, these sections, or
either of them, stand as law at this time, and are applicable to
the facts of this case .the value may be recovered without seizure of the merchandise. The facts of this case fully meet the
requirements of both sections, unless they are rendered inapplicable under § 2839, because, as was ruled by the District Court,
that section was applicable only to goods purchased.
AOfonso v. United State8, 2 Story, 421, cited to support this
proposition does not'support it; on the contrary, the court
avoided it.
Whatever the lawmakers intended at the time of the passage of § 2839, unless modified or repealed by subsequent legislation, is what the section means now. It was originally
enacted in 1799. Neither at nor prior to that time had there
been any legal distinction recognized between an import by a
purchaser and an import by a manufacturer. The section is
general in its terms and embraces "all merchandise of which
entry has been made," whether entered by the foreign manu-"
facturer or by the purchaser.
The word "cost," as distinguished from the market value or
wholesale price, was first used in the act of March 1, 1823. It
is only in still more recent legislation that the word "cost" is
applied in the same legislation to purchasers and market value,
to manufacturers and their consignees and agents. Numerous
cases arose under this section and are reported, but in none of
them did the distinction now sought to be set up between
purchaser and manufavturer as applicable to that section obtain
any recognition. Those cases extended from the United States
v. Riddle, 5 Cranch, 311, to Srnoltzs Case, decided at December Term, 1869, reported in 5 0. C1. 294. As the distinction
then was not made between purchaser and manufacturer until
after the passage of the act of 1799, it cannot with propriety
be made to relate back, and be applied to the interpretation of
the section passed before it was known and recognized. It
is, therefore, contended that § 2839 when originally enacted
applied to purchasers and manufacturers alike, and, unless
repealed, is applicable to this case. That it was not repealed

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

up to December, 1869, is abundantly established by the following cases: Wood v. Uited States, 16 Pet. 342; United States
v. Sixty-Seven Packages Dry Goods, 17 How. 85 ; United States
v. NYine Cases Silk lats, 1'T How. 97; United States v. One
Package Merchandise, 17 How. 98; United States v. One Case
Cloc,, 17 How. 99; Anoltz v. United States, 5 0. Cl. 301..
The District Court in this case ruled that § 2864 was repealed by the 12th section of the act of June 22, 1874. If this
ground be well taken, both §§ 2839 and 2864 have .eased to
be a part of the law of the land; if erroneous, they both still
remain, and the judgment in this case should be reversed.
The only direct.repealing provision found in the 12th section
of the act of the 22d of June, 1874, is:
"And anything contained in any act which provides for the
forfeiture or confiscation of an-entire invoice in consequence
of any item or items contained in the same being undervalued,
be and the same is hereby, repealed."
This clause shows that it was the intent of the law to repeal
only so much of the former law with reference to forfeitures,
as forfeited an invoice for an item or items of fradulent entry.
Had the legislature intended to repeal all, they would have
used different language. It cannot be conceived that they intended to repeal the whole system of laws by implication, and'
then expressly repealed a part of the system.
The alleged repealing section mitigated the forfeiture of
prior enactments, and in lieu of the penalty of the forfeiture
of the whole invoice, made the fraudulent entry a crime. No
implication of a general repeal arises from this. There is ro
legal inconsistency between the two acts.
But it is contended the new law covers the whole subject
matter of the old, and adds an 'offence and prescribes ifs
penalties, and therefore is inconsistent and. effects a repeal;
but in this case we claim that the niew law only reenacts an
offence and modifies a penalty prescribed by the 19th section.
of the act of the 30th of August, 1842, 5 Stat. 565. The new
statutory penalty or forfeiture only modifies so far as it extends, which is to cases where seizure can be made.
The present case clearly shows that the new law does not
cover the whole subject matter of the old.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The new law only provides for a forfeiture of, the merchandise, but not for the forfeiture of its value. The merchandise can only be forfeited when the fraud is discovered, before
it shall have been so disposed of as to place it out of the reach
of legal seizure.
The old law provides for an additional case of the forfeiture of the value as well as the merchandise under it,
when, as in this case, where the fraudulent invoices, by the
secret cunning of the wrong-doers, had concealed the wrong
until the remedy By seizure had become impossible, the value
only could be forfeited:
If the tariff acts of 1799, and subsequent acts be examiiined
with care, it will be found that § 12 of the act of 1874 only
consolidates so much of the law as related to cases where
seizurd of merchandise could be made, but does not include
such provisions of the prior law as are applicable to cases where
seizure could not be made.
The cases of Buckley v. -United States, 4 How. 251; Wood
v. United States,. 16 Pet. 342; Uhited States v. Sixty-Seven
Packages.of Dry Goods, 17 How.85; Taylor v. United States,
3 How.197, -rule, that the provisions of the above-named
several statutes did not repeal § 66 of the act of 1799. In
these cases the distinction is also recognized, between the
provisions of that section, which relate to cases in which
the seizure can be made and those in which it cannot.
2Mr. Clicrles XY. Da Costa for defendants in error.
Mr. JusTicE- BLATOHFORi, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The two sections of the Revised Statutes upon which the
United States base their right of recovery in the case are
§§ 2839 and 2864. Section 2839 was originally enacted as part
of § 66 6f the act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, 1 Stat. 677, and ]eads
as follows: "SEC. 2839. If any merchandise, of which entry
has been made in the office of a collector, is not inyoiced
according to the actual cost thereof at the place of .exportation

UNITED 9TATES v. AUFF3IORDT.
Opinion of the Court.

with design to evade payment of duty, all such merchandise,
or the value thereof, to be recovered of the person malking
entry, shall be forfeited."
Section 2864 was originally enacted as part of § 1 of the, act
of Mlarch 3, 1863, c. 76, 12 Stat. 738, and reads as follows:
"SEc. 2864. If any owner, consignee, or agent of any merchandise shall knowingly make, or attempt to make, an entry
thereof by means of any false invoice, or false certificate of a
consul, vice-consul, or commercial agent; or of any invoice
which does not contain a true statement of all the particulars
hereinbefore required, or by means of any other false or fraudulent document or paper, or of any other false or fraudulent
practice or appliance whatsoever, such merchandise, or the
value thereof, shall be forfeited."
The bill of exceptions contains the following statement as to
the proceedings after the above ruling of the court: The plaintiffs asked leave to prove, successively, that items contained in
the invoices mentioned in the complaint and bill of particulars
were undervalued, within the meaning of the last clause of
§ 12 of the act of June 22, 1874, which reads as follows:
"Anything contained in any act which provides for the forfeiture or confiscation of an entire invoice in consequence of
any item or items contained in the same .being undervalued,
be, and the same is hereby, repealed;" that the defendants, being consignees of the merchandise mentioned'in the complaint,
knowingly made entries thereof by means of false invoices;
that the defendants, being agents of the merchandise mentioned in the complaint, knowingly made entry thereof by
means of false invoices; that the defendants, being consignees
of the merchandise mentioned in the complaint, knowingly
made entry thereof by means of invoices which did not contain
a true statement of the particulars required in that part of the
act of farch 3, 1863, preceding the provision of the act which
was reenacted as § 2864 of the Revised Statutes; that the defendants being agents of the merchandise mentioned in the
complaint, knowingly made entry thereof by means of invoices
which did not contain a true statement of the particulas required in that part of the act of March 3, 1863, preceding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886,
Opinion of the Court.

provision of the act which was reenacted as § 2861 of the Revised Statutes; thaf the defendants, being the consignees of the
iaerchandise mentioned in -the complaint, knowingly made
,entry thereof by means of false and fraudulent documents and
papers; and that the defendants, being the agents of the
merchandise mentioned in the complaint, knowingly made
entry thereof by means of false and fraudulent documents and
papers. These requests being successively denied, the plaintiffs
excepted to each refusal The jury under, direction of the
court, found a verdict for the defendants, to which direction
the plaintiffs excepted. After a judgment for the defendants,
the plaintiffs took the case to the Circuit Court by a writ of
error, where the judgment was affirmed, and they have
brought the case to this court by a writ of error.
I The main contentions on the part of the defendants are,
that § 2839 relates only to purchased goods, and not to consigned goods, and that § 2864 i" superseded by § 12 of the act
of June 22, 18,74, c. 391, 18 Stat. 188. These contentions were
-sustained by the District Court in its opinion.
'Section 2839 provides for the forfeiture of merchandise, or
the value thereof, "to be recovered of the person making
entry," where the merchandise is "not invoiced according to
the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation, with design
to evade paymdnt of duty.", This section, originally enacted
in 1799, is applicable only to goods which are required to be
invoiced according to their actual cost at the place of exportation. Afonso v. Uinited States, 2 Story, 421, 429, 432. By §
2841 of the Revised Statutes, originally § 4 of the act of March
1, 1823, c. 21, 3 Stat. 730; 732, forms of oaths on the entry of
goods' are prescribed, one for the "consignee, importer, or
agent," one"for the "owner in cases where merchandise has
been actually purchased," and a third -for the "manufacturer
or owner in cases where merchandise has not been actually
purchased." In the first form of oath, the oath is, that the
invoice "exhibits the actual cost, (if purchased,) or fair market
value, (if otherwise obtained,)" at the time and place of procurement. In the second form of oath, the oath is, that the
oath contains "a just and faithful account of the actual cost."

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Opinion of the Court.

In the third form of oath, the oath is, that the goods were not
actually bought by the importer or consignee, or by his agent,
in the ordinary mode of bargain and sale, but that nevertheless the invoice "contains a just and faithful valuation of the
same, at their fair market value" at the place of procurement.
Section 2845, originally § 8 of the act of March 1, 1823, c. 21,
3 Stat. 733, provides that "no merchandise subject to ad
valorem duty, belonging to a person not residing at the time
in the United States, who has not acquired the same in the
ordinary mode of bargain and sale, or belonging to the manufacturer, in whole or in part, of the same, shall be admitted to
entry, unless the invoice thereof is verified by the oath of the
owner or of one of the owners,

.

.

.

certifying that the

invoice contains a true and faithful account of the merchandise,
at its fair market value, at the time and place when and where
the same was procured or manufactured, as the case may be."
Section 2854, originally a part of § I of the act of March 3,
1863, c. 76, 12 Stat. 7'37, provides as follows: "All such
invoices" (that is, all invoices of merchandise imported from
any foreign country) "shall, at or before the shipment of the
merchandise, be produced to the consul, vice-consul, or commercial agent of the .United States nearest the place of shipment, for the use of the United States, and shall have indorsed
thereon; when so produced, a declaration signed >by the purchaser, manufacturer, owner, or agent, setting forth that the
invoice is in all respects true; that it contains, if the merchandise mentioned therein is subject to ad valorein duty, and was
obtained by purchase, a true and full statement of the time
when and the place where the same was purchased, and the
actual cost thereof, and of all charges thereon; and that no
discounts, bounties, or drawbacks are contained in the invoice
but such as hive actually been allowed thereon; and when
obtained in any other manner than by purchase, the actual
market value thereof at the time and place when and where
the same was procured or manufactured; and, if subject to
specific duty, the actual quantity thereof; and that no different invoice of -the merchandise, mentioned in the invoice so
produced, has been or will be furnished to any one. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

merchandise was actually purchased, the declaration shall also
contain a statement that the currency in which such invoice is
made out is the currency which was actually paid for the merchandise by the purchaser."
It is quite clear, from the above provisions, that, where imported gbods are the property of their manufacturer, the
invoice need only state the fair market value of the goods at
the place of manufacture, and it need no state "the actual
cost thereof at the place of exportation." Therefore, an invoice of goods which belong to their manufacturer is not, nor
is an entry of such goods, within the purview of § 2839, so as
to make the person entering them with design to evade payinent of duty liable to a forfeiture of their value.
The most serious question arises in respect to § 2864,1 which
is alleged to have been superseded by § 12 of the.act of June
22, 1874. The two statutes are here placed in parallel colUImnS :
Section 2864, Revised Statuts, S'ection 12J of. the Act of Jvne

(92d ed).
"If any owner, congignee, or
agent of any merchandise shall
knowingly make, or attemptto make, an entry thereof by
means of any false invoice, or
false certificate of a consul,
vice-consul, or commercial
agent, or of any invoice which
does not contain a true statement of all the particulars
hereinbefore required, or by
means of any other false or
fraudulent document or paper,
or of any other false or fraudulent practice or appliance
whatsoever, such merchandise
or the value thereof shall be
forfeited."

021874.
,
"That any owner, importer,
consignee, agent, or other person who shall, with intent to
defraud the revenue, make, or
attempt to make, any entry
of imported merchandise, by
means of any fraudulent or
false invoice, affidavit, letter,
or paper, or by means of any
false statement, written or
verbal, or who shall be. guilty
of any wilful act or omission
by means whereof the 'United
States shall be deprived of the
lawful duties, or any portion
thereof, accruing upon themerchandise, or any portion thereof, embraced or referred to.in

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMOIlDT.
Opinion of the Court.

such invoice, affidavit, letter,
paper, or statement, or affected
by such act or omission, shall,
for each offence, be fined in any
sum not exceeding five thousand dollars n6r less than fifty
dollars, or be imprisoned for
any time not exceeding two
years, or both; and, in addition
to such fine, such merchandise
shall be forfeited; which forfeiture shall only apply to the
whole of the merchandise in
the case or package containing
the particular article or articles
of merchandise to which said
fraud or alleged fraud relates;
and anything contained in any
act which provides for the forfeiture or confiscation of an
entire invoice in consequence
of any item or items contained in the same being un:
dervalued, be, and the same is
hereby, repealed."
Assuming that the language of § 2864, declaring that the
merchandise or its value shall be forfeited, would authorize a
suit in personam, without a seizure of the merchandise, and
also assuming that the suit for a forfeiture of the value may
be brought against the owner, consignee, or agent, the question for determination is, whether the provision in § 2864, for
a forfeiture of the value, is superseded by. the enactment of
§ 12 of the act of June 22, 1874, which provides only for a
forfeiture of the merchandise, and does not provide for any forfeiture of its value.
Section 13 of the act of June 22, 1874, provides that any
merchandise entered by any person violating § 12, but not

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to forfeiture under that section, may, while owned by
him or while in his possession, "1to double the amount claimed,
be taken by the collector and held as security for the payment
of any fine or fines incurred as aforesaid." Section 14 provides
that the omission, without intent thereby to defraud the revenue, to add, on entry, to the invoice, certain specified charges,
shall not be a cause of forfeiture of the goods "or of the value
thereof." Section 16 provides that, in suits to enforce the forfeiture of goods, "or to recover the value thereof," no fine,
penalty, or forfeiture shall be imposed unless the jury shall
find that the alleged acts'were done with an actual intention
to defraud the United States. Section 26 repeals all acts and
parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of that act.
There is -not in the act any other repealing provision, except
that contained in the concluding words of § 12, above quoted.
The act of June 22, 1874, was passed on the same day with
the Revised Statutes, § 5595 of which declares that the Revised
Statutes embrace the general and permanent statutes of the
United States.which were in force on the 1st day of December,
1873. Section 5601 declares that the enactment of the revision
is not to affect or repeal any act of Congress passed since the
1st day of December, 1873; that all acts passed since that
date are to have full effect, as if passed after the enactment of
the revision; and that, so far as such acts vary from or conflict
with any provision contained in the revision, they are to have
effect as subsequent statutes, and as repealing any portion of
the revision inconsistent therewith. The act of June 22, 1874,
is, therefore, a subsequent statute to the Revised Statutes, and
repeals any portion thereof which is inconsistent with such
subsequent statate.
On a full review of the above-recited provisions of the act
of June 22, 1874, and of its other provisions, it is apparent
that, so far, at least, as the acts subject to the penalties denounced in § 2864 are concerned, they are entirely covered by
the provisions of § 12 of the act of June 22, 1874. There is
no act denounced by § 2864 that is not embraced, both as to
person and character of act, by the provisions of § 12. The
Utter section adds, as a punishment for the offence, fine or

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Opinion of the Court.

imprisonment, or both, and a forfeiture of the merchandise, in
addition'to the fige. It leaves out a forfeiture of the vjlue of
the merchandise, and forfeiture of. such value is inconsistent
with the terms of § 12, and is, therefore, repealed by it. The
absolute forfeiture of the merchandise, provided for by § 12, is
inconsistent, also, with the alternative forfeiture of the merchandise or its value, provided for by § 2861. The provisions
of the two statiftes cannot stand together. _rorris v. Crocker,
13 How. 429, 438; United States v. Tynen, .11 Wall. 88,92;
.3krdocA v. City of .Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 617; United
Stertes v. Otfin, 97 U. S. 546, 552, 553; Zing v. Cornell, 106
U. S. 395, 396 ; Panx v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529, 538.
The considerations covered by the foregoing views are so
well discussed' and enforced in the opinion of the District
Judge in this case that it is not deemed necessary further to
enlarge upon them.
Section 2864 of the Revised Statutes, when originally enacted on the 22d of June, 1874, did not contain the words "or
the value thereof" after the words "such merchandise." By
-the act of February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 319, entitled "An
Act to correct errors and to supply omissions in the Revised
Statutes of the United States," and which act states "that, for
the purpose of correcting errors and supplying omissions in the
act entitled 'An Act to revise and consolidate the statutes of
the United States in force on the-first day of December, Anno
Domini one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three,' so as
to make the same truly express such laws, the following
amendments are hereby made therein," it is provided as follows : "Section two thousand eight hundred and sixty-four is
amended by inserting in the last line, after the word 'merchandise,' the words ' or the value thereof.'
Section two of
the act directs the Secretary of State, "if practicable, to cause
this act to be printed and bound in the volume of the Revised
Statutes of the United States."
It is contended for the United States that this amendment
to § 2864, made by the act of February 18, 1875, can be reasonably accounted for only upon the theory that, at the date
it was made, which was after the passage of the act of June
voL. cxxH-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

22, 1874, c. 391, Congress regarded § 2861, as thus amended,
as a valid existing law, particularly in respect to the amendment, and intended to declare that the value of the merchandise should be forfeited under § 2864, notwithstanding the
.ppssage of the act of June' 22, 1874, c. 391. But we are of
opinion that the amendment made by the act of February 18,
1875, did not have the effect contended for. Its sole object
was to correct errors and supply omissions in the text of the
Revised Statutes, as its title indicates, so as to make the same
truly express the statutes in force 'on the 1st of December,
1873, and it made special reference to the printed volume of
the Revised Statutes. It was in no respect new legislation,
nor a new law enacted to take effect from the date of its passage, in such wise as to alter any enactment made since the
passage of the Revised Statutes. The-intention was to make
§ 2864 read as it ought to have read in the printed volume, in
the shape in hich it was in force on the 1st of December,
1873, as a part of § 1 of the act' of March 3, 1863, c. 76, 12
Stat. 738. It left the act of June -2, 1874, c. 391, to have
its full effect in respect to § 2864, in like manner as if the
words "or the value thereof" had been contained in, that section, in the printed volume of the Revised Statutes. There
was a law in force on December 1, 1873, and subsequently
thereto, down to June 22, 1874, authorizing a forfeiture of the
value of merchandise for the causes stated in § 2864, and the
fact that forfeitures of such value might have been incurred
during the intervening period between December 1, 1873, and
June 22, 1874, was a sufficient reason for the correction made

in § 2804,
The judgment of the Circuit Court is afirmed.

