OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

quently it is not final. Bostwick v. Brinkerhqof, 106 U. S. 3,
and, the cases there cited.
As the motion to dismiss must be granted on this ground, it
is unnecessary to consider whether the amount in dispute is
sufficient to give us jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

BARTRAM u. ROBERTSON.
ERMOR TO THE omourr COURT OP THE INITED STATES FO
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF ,EW YORK.
Argued April 29,1887. -Decided

THE

May 23, 1887.

The provisions in the treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation with
the king of Denmark, concluded April 26, 1826, and revived by the convention of April 11, 1857, do not, by their own operation, authorize the
importation, duty free from Danish dominions, of articles made duty,
free by the convention of January 30, 1875, with the king of the Hawaiian Islands, but otherwise subject to duty by a law of Congress, the king
of Denmark not having allowed to the United States the compensation for
the concession which was allowed by the king of the Hawaiian Islands.

THis was an action to recover back duties alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the collector at New York. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Y.

H

. Tre6ne

in and Xr. A. J. Willard for plaintiffs in

error.
"Mtr. Solicitor OeneraZ for defendant in error.
Mr. JusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion or the court.

The plaintiffs are merchants doing business in the city'of
New York, and in March and April, 1882, they made four importations of brown and unrefined sugars and'molasses, the
produce and manufacture of the Island of St. Croix, which is

BA!RTRAX

v. ROBERTSON.

Opinion of the Court.

a part of the dominions of the king of Denmark. The goods,
were regularly entered at the custom-house at the port of New
York, the plaintiffs claiming at the time that they should .be
admitted free of duty under the treatywith Denmark, because
like articles, the produce and manufacture of the Hawaiian
Islands, were, under the treaty with their king, and the act of
Coiigressof August 15, 1876, to carry that treaty into operation, admitted free of duty. The.defendant, however, who
was the collector of the port of New York, treated the goods
as dutiable articles, and, against the claim of the plaintiffs,
exacted duties upon them under the'acts of Congress, without
regard to those treaties, amounting to $33,222, which they paid
to the collector under protest in .order to obtain possession (f
their goods. They then brought the present action against the
collector to recover the. amount thus paid. The action was
commenced in a court of the state of New York,.and, on motion of the defendant, was transferred to. the Circuit Court of
the United States.
The complaint sets forth the different importations; that
the articles were the produce and manufacture of St. Croix,
part of the dominions of the king of Denmark; their entry at
the custom-house, and the claim of the plaintiffs that they were
free from duty by force of the treaty with the king of Denmark and of that with the king of the Hawaiian Islands; the
refusal of the collector to treat them as free under those treaties ; his exaction of duties thereon to the amount stated, and its
payment under protest; and asked judgment for the amount.
The defendant demurred to the complaint on the ground,
among others, that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against him. The Circuit Court sustained
the demurrer, and ordered judgment for the defendant with
costs, 21 Blatchford, 211; and the plaintiffs have brought the
case to this court for review.
We are thus called upon to give an interpretation to the
clause in the treaty with Denmark which bears upon the subject of duties on the importation of articles produced or manufactured in its dominions, and the effect upon it of the treaty
with the Hawaiian Islands for the admission without duty of
similar articles, the produce and manufacture of that kingdom.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The existing commercial treaty between, the United States
and the king of Denmark, styled "General convention of
friendship, commerce, and navigation," was concluded on the
26th of April, 1826. 8 Stat. 340. It was afterwards abrogated,
but subsequently ienewed, with the exception of one article, on
the 12th of January, 1858. 11 Stat. '19.
The first article declares that "the contracting parties, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations
of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly.
with all, engage, mutually, not to grant any particular favor
to other nations in respect of commerce and navigation which
shall not immediately become common to the other party, who
shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession were freely made,
or, upon allowing the same compensation, if the concession
Were conditional."
The fourth article declares that "no higher or 6ther duties
'-shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of
any article, the produce or mainufacture of the dominions of
his majesty the king of -Denmark; and no higher or other
duties shall be imposed upon the importation into the said doAiinions of any article the produce or ifianufacture of the
United States, than are,- or shall be, payable on the like articles, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreiam
country."
The treaty, or convention, as it is termed,
between the king
of the Hawaiian Islands and the United States, was concluded
January 30, 1875, and was ratified May 31 following. 19
Stat. 625. Its first article declares, that "for and in consider'ation of the rights and-privileges granted by His Majesty the
King of the Hawaiibn Islands," and "as an equivalent therefor," the United States agree to admit all'the articles named
in a specified schedule, the same being the growth, produce,
and manufacture Qf the Hawaiian Islands, into all the ports of
the United States -free of duty. Then follows the schedule,
which, among other articles, includes brown and all other unrefined sugars and molasses.
The second article declares, that "for'and in consideration
of the rights and- privileges granted by the United States of

BARTRA

b. ROBERTSON.

Opinion of the Court.

America in the preceding article," and "as an equivalent
therefor,' the king of.the Hawaiian Islands agrees to admit
-all the articles naied in a specified schedule which *ere the
growth, manuifacture, or produce of the United States of
America, into all the ports of the Hawaiian Islands free of
duty. Then follows the schedule mentioned.
By the fourth article it is also agreed on the part of the Hawaiian king, that.so long as the treaty xeniains in force he
will not lease or otherwise dispose of, or create any lien upon
any port, harbor, or other territory in his dominions, or grant
any special privileges, or rights of use therein, to any other
power, state, or government, nor make any treaty by which
any other nation shall obtain the same privileges, relative to
the admission %ofany articles free of duty, thereby secured to
the United States.
The fifth article declared, that the convention' should not
take effect until a law had been passed by Congress to carry
it into operation. Such a law was passed on the 15th of August, 1876. 19 Stat. 200, c. 290. It provided, that whenever
the President of the United States should receive satifactory
evidence that the, legislature of the* Hawaiian Islands had
passed laws on their part to give full effect to the convention
between the United States and the king of those Islands
signed on the 30th of January, 1875, he was authorized. to
issue his proclamation declaring that he had such evidence,
and thereupon, -from the date of such proclamation, certain
articles, which were named, being the growth, manufacture, or
produce of the Hawaiian Islands, hould be introduced into
the United States free of duty, so long as the convention-remained in force. Such evidence was received. by the President, and the proclamation was made on the 9th of September,
1876; - 19 Stat. 666.
The duties for which this action was brought were exacted
under the act of the 14th of July, 1870, as amended on the
-22d of December of that year. 16 Stat. 262, 397. The act is
of general application, making no exceptions in favor of Denmark or of any other nation. It provides -that the articles
specified, without reference to the country from which they

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

come, shall pay the duties prescribed. It was enacted several
years after the treaty with Denmark was made.
That the act of Congress as amended, authorized and
required the duties imposed upon the goods in question, if not
controlled by the treaty with Denmark, after the ratification
of the treaty with the Hawaiian Islands, there can be no question. And it did not lie with the officers of customs to refuse
to follow its directions because of the stipulations of the treaty
with Denmari" Those stipulations, even if conceded to be
self-executing by the way of a proviso or exception to the
general law imposing the duties, do not cover concessions like
those made to the Hawaiian Islands for a valuable consideration.. They were pledges of the two contracting parties, the
United States and the king of Denmark, to each other, that,
in the imposition of duties on goods imported into one of the
countries which were the produce or manufacture of the other;
there should be no discrimination against them in favor of
goods of like character imported from any other country.
They imposed an obligation upon both countries to avoid. hostile legislation in that respect. But they were not intended to
interfere with special arrangements with other countries
founded upon a concession of special privileges. The stipulations were mutual, for reciprocal advantages. "No higher or
other duties" were to be imposed by either upon. the goods
specified; but if any particular favor should be granted by
either to other countries in respect to commerce or navigation,
the concession was to become common to the other party
upon like consideration, that is, it was to be enjoyed freely if
the concession were freely made, or on allowing the same compensation if the concession were conditional.
The treaty with the Hawaiian Islands makes no provision
for the imposition of any duties on goods, the produce or
manufacture of that c6 untry, imported into the United
States. It stipulates for the exemption from- duty of certain
goods thus imported, in consideration of and as an equivalent
for certain reciprocal concessions on the part of the Hawaiian
Islands to the United States. There is in such exemption no
violation of the stipulations in the treaty with Denmark, .and

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Names of Counsel.

if the exemption is deemed a "particular favor," in respect of
commerce and navigation, within the first article of that treaty,
it can only be claimed by Denmark upon like compensation to
the United States. It does not appear that Denmark has ever
9bjected to the imposition of duties upon goods from her
dominions imported into the United States, because of the exemption from duty of similar goods imported frdm the
Hawaiian Islands, such exemption being in consideration- of
reciprocal concessions, which she has never proposed to make.
Our conclusion is, that the treaty with Denmark does not
bind the United States to extend to that country, without
compensation, privileges which they have conceded to the
Hawaiian Islands in exchange for valuable concessions. On
the contrary, the 'treaty provides that like compensation shall
be given for such special favors. When such "compensation is
made it will be time to consider whether sugar from her
dominions shall be admitted free from duty.
ATdgmwnt ap-med.
TOPIIFF V. TOPLIFF.
APrEA-1

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN~ITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHEMN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued May 3, 4,188.-Dectded May 23,1887.

When the language of a contract is ambiguous, the practical interpretation
of it by the parties is entitled to great, if not controlling influence.
In this case the court holds that a contract made by the parties in 1870 is
still in force, and that under its terms the appellee is entitled to make
use of the combinations covered by the patent to John A. Topliff, one of
the appellants, of August 24, 1875, without the payment of royalty, and
without being charged with liability as an infringer.

BiL in equity to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainants
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
21&.

enry . Shem'zn and i&. T. Bakewell for appellants.

Xr. 2f. D.
A Legget and Xfr. T. F. Boynton for appellee.
Mr. S. Burke was with them on the brief.

