IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. INIGHT.
Syllabus.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND SOUTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. KNIGHT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued May 3, 1887.-Decided

May 23, 1887.

A bill of lading, acknowledging the receipt by a common carrier of "the
following packages, contents unknown... marked and numbered as per
margin, to be transported" to the place of destination, is not a warranty,
on the part of the carrier, that the goods are of the quality described in
the margin.
P. shipped by rail a large quantity of cotton at different times, and at different.points south of Texarkana, Ark., to be made up into bales there at
a compress-house, and to be thence forwarded to various destinations
lorth and East. The work at the compress house was to be done by the
carrier, but under direction of the shipper, who had control of the cotton
there for that purpose,-andwho superintended the weighing, the classing,
and the marking of it, and who selected for shipment the particular bales
to fill the respective orders at the points of destination. Bills of lading
for it were issued from time to time by the agents of the railroad company, sometimes in advance of the separation by P. of particular bales
from the mass to correspond with them. P. was in the habit of drawing
against shipments with bills of lading attached, and his drafts were discounted at the local banks. When shipments were heavy, drafts would
often mature before the arrival of the cotton. 525 bales, marked on the
margin as of a particular quality; were so selected and shipped to K. at
Providence, Rhode Island. The bill of lading described them as "contents bnknown," "marked and numbered as per margin." The contents
of the bales on arrival were found not to correspond with the marks on
the margin. The consignee had honored the draft before the arrival of
the cotton. He refused to receive the cotton, and sold it on account of
the railroad company, after notice to it, and sued-in assumlpsit, on the
bill of lading, to recover from the company, as a common carrier, the
amount of the loss. Held,,
(1) That the bill of lading was not a guarantee by the carrier that the
cotton was of the quality described in the margin;
(2) That if the railroad company was liable as warehouseman, that liability could not be enforced under this declaration; nor, under the
circumstances of this case, by the consignee of the cotton;
(3) That the company was not liable as a common carrier from points
south of Texarkana for the specific bales consigned to K.;

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(4) That its liability as common carrier began only when specific lots
were marked and designated at Texarkana, and specifically set
apart to correspond with a bill of lading then or previously issued.
In Illinois, under an unverified plea of the general issue in assampsit
against a common carrier for goods lost, the defendant may at the trial
deny his liability under the bill of lading; § 34 of the Practice Act haying no application to such a denial.

AssMSPSIT against plaintiff in error, defendant below, as a
common carrier, to recover on a bill of lading for goods not
delivered. Judgment for plaintiffs. Defendant sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ar. Joh F. Dillon for plaintiff in error cited : Walker v.
Brewer, 11 Mass. 99 ; Lickbarrow v. Mason, 2 T. 1.. 63, 77;
Grant v. Norway, 10 C. B. 665; Hubbersty v. Ward, 8 Exch.
330 ; Brown v. Powell -Duijryn Co., L. R. 10 0. P. 562; The
Freeman,v. Buckingam, 18 How. 182; The Loon, 7 Blatchford, 244; Robinson v. .Mempis, &o., Railway Co., 9 Fed.
Rep. 129; S. C. 16 Fed. Rep. 57; Pollard v. inton, 105
U. S. -7; Sears v. Wingate, 3 Allen, 103; Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad v. Wilkens, 44 Maryland, 11 ; runt v. -irss&ieei
Central Railroad, 29 La. Ann. 446; Loisiana Bankv. La'eille, 52 Missouri, 380; Chandlerv. %vrague, 38 Am. Dec. 407,
note; Cox v. Bruce, 18' Q. B. D. 147; Ailler v. Hannibal &
St. dosepA Railroad,90 N. Y. 430; The -L.J. Fawell, 8 Bissell,
61; Rowley v. Bigelow, 12 Pick. 307 [S. C. 23 ]m. Dec. 607];
Haddow v. Parry,3 Taunt. 303 ; Jessel v. BatA, L. R. 2 Exch.
267; Lebeau v. General Steam fTav. Co., L. R. 8 C. P. 88;
Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272; The Columbo, 3 Blatchford,
521; 630 Casks of Sherry Wine, 7 Ben. 506, 509; S. 0. 14
Blatchford, 517; Bi&sel v. Price,16 Ill. 408; Barrett v. Rogers, 7 Mass. 297 [S. C. 5 Am. Dec. 45] ; hS kherd v. Naylor,
5 Gray, 591 ; .fichigan South-ern Railroad v. Shurtz, 7 Mich.
515; Platt v. Hibbard,7 Cowen, 497; St. Louis, c., -Railroad
v. Montgomery, 39 Ill. 335; Roskell v. Waterouse, 2 Starkie,
461; O'Neil v. 2Vew TYork Central Railroad, 60 N. Y. 138;
Barron v. Eldredge, 100 Mass. 455.

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.'
Opinion of the Court.
. Ar. Julius Rosenthal and -Yr.Abram 2. Pence for defendants in error, submitted on their brief, citing: Rowley v. Bigelow, 12 Pick. 307 [S. C. 23 Am. Dec. 607]; Stovenson v. Fans-.
'iorth,2 Gilman, 715; Gaddy v. .M Cleave., 59 Ill. 182;. Tem.peton v. Rayward, 65 Ill. 178; Dwight v. Newell, 15 Ill. 333;,
Walker v. Kreaaum,67 IlL 252; Te Idaho, 93 U. S. 575; Bobinson v. Xernmphis, &c.,Railway, 16 Fed. :Rep. 57, 60 ; .foulbr
v. American Life Insurance Co., 111 U. S. 335; Indiaznolis,.
&b., Railroad Co. v. Jordt,93 U. S. 291; Beaver v. Taylor, 93
U. S. 46; Beckwith v. Bean, 98 U. S. 266; Ottawa & Fox River
Railroad y. foffath, 91 Ill. 111; St. Louis & 1ron XMt. Railroadv. Larned,103 Ill. 293; A 'our v. XAich. CentralRailroad,65 N. Y. 111; Bank of Pittsburgh v. 1Veal, 22 How. 96.
MR. JUSTICE.

LTTnEws -delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of assumpsit brought by the defendants in
error against the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company in theSuperior Court of Cook County, Illinois,
and removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for
t1le Northern District of Illinois by the defendant below, the
parties being citizens of different states. The declaration set
out several similar causes of action in different counts against
the railway company as a common carrier, in one of which it
was alleged that. the defendant, having received from 'one G.
T. Potter a large number of bales of cotton, described in a
certain bill of lading acknowledging receipt thereof, thereby
agreed safely to carry the same from Texarkana, in the state
of Arkansas, to St. Louis, in the state of Missouri, and 'thence
to Woonsocket, in the state of Rhode Island; and avers that,
in violation of its promise and duty, .and by reason of its negligence, the said goods became and were wholly lost. The,
plaintiffs below sued as purchasers of the cotton from Potter
and assignees of the bills of lading. The bills of lading sued
upon were sinlilar in their tenor, except as to the description
of the articles named therein, and commenced, as follows:
"Received. from G. T. Potter the following packages, contents
unknown, in apparent good order, marked and numbered as
VOL. cxxI-G

OCTOBER. TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

per margin, to be transported from Texarkana, Ark., to St.
Louis, and delivered tO the consignee or a connecting common
c.arrier." A specimen of what was contained on the margin
is as follows:
"Marked.

List'of articles.

Weight.

"[P .]
Seventy-four bales cotton, adv. ch'g's $111.00 35,964
"Order shpper notify"B..B. and R. KiGnT,

"Deliver cotton Woonsocket, R. I."
Some• of the bills of lading specified that the goods -were to
be transported from Texarkana to Providence, IR.I., to be forwarded from St, Louis to destination. The whole number of
bales in controversy is 525.
To the declaration the defendant filed a plea of the general
issue, whichwas not verified.
The ground of the comiplaint on the part of the plaintiffs
was, not that they did not receive the whole number of bales
called'for by the bills of lading, but that,,as to the 525 bales
'in controvdrsy, they were not of the grade ahd quality designated by the marks eontained in the bills of lading. By reason
of this diffetence in quality, on the arrival of 'the cotton at
destination, the plaintiffs refused to receive the same, and,
after n6tice to the defendant, caused the same to be sold for
its account. The amount, claimed was the loss ihereby incurred.
The cause was tried by a.jury, and a verdict and judgment
rendered for the plaintiffs for $11,808.51. A bill of.exceptions,
duly taken, sets out the entire evidence given on the trial, and
the charge of the court t the jury, with the exceptions taken
by-the plaintiff in error.
The court below-in its charge to the jury gave in outline a
statement of the main features of the case sufficient for present
purposes, as follows:,
"The proof tends to show that Potter was a cotton broker
at Texarkana, Arkansas, in the fall of 1879 and winter following; that he bought most of his cotton at pQints i Texas on

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

the lines of railroads running south and southwest and west
from Texarkana, and that it was brought to Texarkana by
these railroads and there delivered upon the platform of what is
known in the testimony as the cotton compress company; that
this compress company was a corporation whose business it
was to compress cotton, and that all the cotton bought by
Potter and delivered at Texarkana was to be there compressed
before it was shipped East and North by the d%,-,aanT. This
compress company had a large warehouse, where cotton was
stored until it could be compressed and made .ready for shipment.
"The testimony tends to show the course of business to have
been this: Cotton was bought -by Potter and delivered into
the compress house. It was there weighed, classed, or graded
by Potter, and marks put upon each bale indicating the grado
.or quality of the cotton and the lot to which it belonged.
When Potter had so weighed, graded, and marked a number
of bales, he made out'a bill of lading, describifng certain bales
of cotton by the marks on the bales; had the superintendent
of the compress company warehouse certify to the fact that
the cotton called for by these bills of lading was in the warehouse, and the bills of' lading thus certified to by the letters
'0 K' and the signature of Martin, the superintendent of the
compress warehouse, were signed by O'Connor, the freight
agent of the defendant at Texarkana. Potter then drew drafts
on the persons to whdm he had sold cotton of the grade called
for by these bills of lading, attached these bills of lading to
the drafts, and some local bank at Texarkana or some of the
adjacent towns or cities cashed these drafts, and they went
forward to some correspondent of such bank for collection,
and in due course of mail and long before the actual arrival of
the cotton the drafts were paid; and this seems, from the proof,
to have been the course of business between the plaintiffs and.
Potter.
"There is also testimony in the case, given by Potter himself, which tends to show that the bills of lading were issued
upon cotton before it had been received into the warehouse
upon some understanding or agreement between Potter and

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

O'Connor that they should be so issued, and that Potter would
afterwards put the cotton to respond to those bills of lading
into the warehouse.
"1It is conceded that the defendant, and it is in fact provided in the bills of lading, that the defendant, the railroad
company,,should compress this cotton before shipping to the
North or East, and that the expense of compressing was
paid by the defendant out of its charges for transportation;
that some time necessarily elapsed between the arrival of the
cotton in the compress warehouse and the time when it was
compressed and made ready for shipment. Especially was
this so in the fall and early part of the winter, when, there
was a large rush on cotton and it was impossible to compress
and handle the cotton as fast as it came in. The cotton there-ore accumulated in large quantities in the compress house,
awaiting compression and getting ready for shipment.
"And there is also proof in the case tending to show that
when it was ready for shipment it was turned out on what
was known as the loading platform, and was there shipped tosuch consignees as Potter directed -that is, bills of lading
having been given to various persons, Potter directed to whom
he would have each lot, as it was turned out ready for shipment, sent or forwarded.
"The controversy in this case is wholly in regard to 525
bales of cotton covered by the eight bills of lading offered in
evidence in this case. These bills of lading, as you will remember, covered a large amount of other cotton which it is conceded was received in due course of business, and answered to
the marks of quality which were upon the bales; but it is
claimed on the part of the plaintiffs that 525 bales of the
whole number of bales covered by the bills of lading were not
of the. quality called for by these bills.of lading, and this suit
is wholly in regard to those.
"cThe plaintiffs claim that, on or about the 9th of April,
1880, there still remained unshipped from Texarkana and in
•the compress warehouse 525 bales of this cotton, for which
they held bills of lading; that, on or about the 9th of April,
there remained in the compress house about 800 bales of cotton

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v.. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

an inferior grade to that indicated by the marks on the cotton called for by these bills of lading; and that certain employes of Potter, as plaintiffs insist, with the knowledge of
O'Connor, the defendant's freight agent, re-marked this cotton
with marks indicating the grade or quality called for'by the
bills of lading; and the defendant forwarded this inferior
cotton to the plaintiffs instead of the actual quality called for
by these bills of lading.
"The plaintiffs' proof also tends to show that when this
inferior cotton arrived at-its destination, Providence, IRhode
Island, plaintiffs declined to accept it, caused -it to be put into'
an auction house, and sold for the benefit- of whom it might
concern, notified the defendant of what they had done before
this sale took place, giving the defendant opportunity to reclaim and take the cotton if "it
saw fit and dispose of. it itself;
and this suit is how brought to recover the difference between
the proceeds of this inferioi cotton, as the plaintiffs claim, and
the drafts and freight they have paid."
It is not denied that the railroad company delivered to the
plaintiffs below the whole number of bales of cotton mentioned
in the bills of lading, with external marks thereon as called for,
and that no change was made in.the cotton or in the marking
thereof after it was loaded on the cars for, transportation at
Texarkana, and that no damage or loss was occasi6ned by
reasoft of. any want of care or diligence in 'the transportation.
The bill of lading contains no warranty that the goods
described shall answer any particular quality; on the contrary,
it expressly specifies that the contents of the packages are unknown: 'That a bill of lading in such cases doqs not operate
as such a guaranty appears from the case of Clrk v. Bar;zwell, 12 How. 272, where Mr. Justice Kelson, delivering
the opinion of the court (p. 283), said: "It is obvious, there-fore, that the acknowledgment of the, master as to the condition of the goods when received on board eitended only to
the external condition of the cases, excluding any implication
as to the quantity or quality of the article, condition of it at
the time received on board, or whether properly packed or not
in the boxes."

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

The observations of the Master of the Rolls, Lord Esher, in
the case of Cox v. Bruce, 18 Q. B. D. 147, are very much in
point. He says: "But, then, secondly, it is said that, because
the plaintiffs axe indorsees for value of the bill of lading without notice, they have another right, that they are entitled to
rely on a representation made in the bill of lading that the
bales bore such and such marks, and that there is consequently
an estoppel against the defendants. That raises a question as
to the true meaning of the doctrine in Grant v. _Vorway, 10 0.
B. 665. It is clearly impossible, consistently with that decision, to assert'that the mere fact of a statement being made
in the bill of lading estops the shipowner and gives a right of
action against him if untrue, because it was there held that a
bill of lading signed in respect of goods not on board the vessel did not bind the shipowner. The ground of that decision,
according to my view, was not merely that the captain has no
authority to sign a bill of lading in respect of goods not on
board, but that the nature and lhnitations of the captain's
authority are well known among mercantile persons, and that
he 'is
only authorized to perform all things usual in the line of
business in which he is .employed. Therefore the doctrine of
that case is not confined to the case where the goods are not
put on board the ship. That the captain has authority to bind
his owners with regard to the weight, condition, and value of
the goods under certain circumstances may be true; but it
appears to me absurd to contend that persons are entitled to
assume that he has authority, though his owners really gave
him no such authority, to estimate and determine and state
on the bill of lading, so as to bind his owners, the particular
mercantile quality of the goods before they are put on board,
as, for instance, that they are goods, containing such and such
a percentage of good or bad material, or of such and such a
season's growth. To ascertain such matters is obviously quite
outside the scope of the functions and capacities of a ship's
captain and of the contract of carriage with which he has to
do."
'Itfollows,, therefore, that if any liability attached to the
plaintiff in error upon these bills of lading, it must be by

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY 'v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

reason of what occurred prior to the actual loading of the cotton upon the cars at Texarkana, when the transportation actually commenced. If Potter had never delivered to the plaintiff in error any cotton at all to make good the 525 bales
called for by the bills of lading, it is clear that the plaintiff in
error would not 'be liable for the deficiency. This is well
establisheq by the cases of The Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 How. 182, and Pollard v. 1inton, 105 U. S. 'I: In
the latter case, Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of
the court, and speaking of the nature and effect of a bill of
lading, says: "It is an instrument of a twofold character. It
is at once a receipt and a contract. In the former character,
it is an acknowledgment of the .receipt of property on board
his vessel by the owner of the vessel. In the latter, it is a.
contract to carry safely and deliver. The receipt of the goods
lies at the foundatibn of the contract to carry and deliver. If
no goods are actually received, there can be no valid contract to
carry or to deliver." And the doctrine is applicable to transportation contracts made in that form by railway companies and
other carriers by land, as well as carriers by sea. Baltimonre c&
Ohio Railroadv.Wilkens, 44 Maryland, I1; .filer v. Hannibal
& St. Joseh Ralr'oad,90 N. Y. 430. Afortiori the carrier is
not responsible, as we have already seen, for a deficiency in the
quality as compared with that described in the bill of lading if
he safely delivers the very goods he actually received for transportation.
It becomes necessary, therefore, further to inquire what
facts, happening before the actual loading of the cotton in qu.stion on the cars of the plaintiff in error at Texarkana, create a
liability on its part to make good the loss complained of by
reason of its duty as a common carrier under the bills of lading sued on. On this point, the court below charged the jury
as follows:
"1st. This compress warehouse must be deemed the warehouse of the defendant. If you find from the proof that it
was used by the defendant as the place for storing the cotton
while the defendant was compressing the same-that is, if
while the defendant was getting the cotton ready for shipment

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

north it used the compress warehouse for the purpose of
storage, then the compress warehouse must be deemed .the defendant's warehouse. for that purpose.
"2d. 'The proof without controversy seems to be that it was
understood between Potter and the defendant that all the cotton covered by these bills of lading was to be compressed before it was to be put on the defendant's cars for actual transpotation. While it remained! in the compress house for
conpression, awaiting further shipment, the defendant's liability was that of a warehouseman only, and not that of a
carrier; that is, the defendant was liable for due and ordinary
care, such as warehousemen are expected to take of property
placed in a warehouse for keeping. A common carrier's
liability is of an extraordinary character, and covers every
risk that the property can be subject to, except a loss by the
act of God or by an unavoidable accident, and by the public
enemy, unless this extraordinary liability which the law imposes is limited or restricted by the contract between the
parties, so that this extraordinary liability, as a common' carrier, did not commence until the property was actually loaded
or taken for transportation; but the liability was that of a
warehouseman until the transportation was actually commenced."

After charging the jury, in the same connection, that the
bills of lading were not negotiable, sothat any defence open
to the plaintiff in error, if sued by Potter, might be made
against the plaintiffs below, notwithstanding they had paid
value for the property on the faith of the bill of lading, the
court further said:
"But this rule, must be taken with this 4ualification, that
after the issuing of a bill of lading by the defendant as a
warehouseman or common carrier no collusive agreement or
conduct between the defendant and Potter can be allowed to
prejudice the plaintiffs' rights as holders of these bills of lading. The plaintiffs have the right to have the contract performed substantially as it was made between Potter and the
defendant. There can be no substantial change in the terms
of the contract to.the prejudice of the plaintiffs or any, person
to whom the contract or bill of lading may.be assigned."

IRON M1OUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

The court further charged the jury, that the defendant, as
a common carrier, was not a guarantor of the quality of the
commodity it assumed to transport, and added as follows:
"This rule may, however, be subjected to a qualification or
limitation under the facts in this case as you mby find them to
be. The proof tends to show that Potter marked quite a
large number of bales ith the same grade and lot marks as
those desciibed in these bills of ladingi and there is proof
tending to show that no specific bales of cotton were set apart
or considered as forming the particular bales to be shipped on
these bills of lading, but it was understood between Potter
and the defendant that out of the lot or quantity of bales
marked in the manner, designated in these bills of lading a
sufficient number to make up what are called for by those bills
of lading should be shipped. If you so find, then the defendant was bound to ship the number of bales called for by these
bills of lading out of the larger quantity bearing the same
common marks, and this would be the contract, if you find
from the proof that the cotton in question was to be drawn
from a larger lot bearing the same common marks.
"The testimony on the part of the defendant. tends to show
that the defendant's agents did not know" at the time of the
issuing of these bills of lading that the marks on these bales
indicated the quality or the grade of the botton; that, so. far
as Mr. O'Connor and the other agents of the defendant who
had the responsible charge, of the defendant's business at
Texarkana were concerned, the marks only indicated a means
of identification, and the quality of the cotton was not considered by them; that a bale of cotton to them was only a
bale of cotton, without regard to quality; that in shipping the
cotton in fulfilment of these bills of lading they only referred
to the marks as a means of identifying or determining what
cotton they were to ship under each bill of lading.
"As has been stated, the plaintiffs' proof tends to show that
on or about the 9th of April the employes of Potter with the
knowledge of the defendant's agent, marked a lot of 800 bales
of inferior cotton, then in the compress warehouse, with grademarks corresponding to those called for by these bills of lad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ing, and that the defendant shipped this inferior cotton to the
plaintiffs in fulfilment of its contract under those bills of
lading; while the defendant's proof tends to show that the
defendant's agents had no knowledge of the fact that this cottonwas of a quality inferior to that called for by these bills
of lading, and had no knowledge of the fact that the grademarks on the bales so shipped had been changed from marks
indicating a lower grade to those indicating the giade called
for by the bills of lading, but that, on the contrary, they
accepted the cotton with the belief that it was the cotton
called for by the bills of lading, and which had been delayed
in the warehouse up to that time for the purpose of compressing and getting it ready for shipment.
"14th.If the proof in the case satisfies you that the defend'ant's agents knew or were informed at the time they shipped"
this cotton to the plaintiffs or accepted it for shipment that it
was of a quality -inferior to that called for by the bills of lading which the defendant had issued for it, and knew that the
marks on those bales or packages had been changed- from
marks indicating a lower grade or quality of cotton to marks
indicating the.grade called for by the bills of lading, then the
defendant is liable-in this action for the difference in value
between the- cotton of the quality called for by the bills of
Iding and'the value of the cotton actually shipped--that is
to say, if the proof satisfes you that the agent of the defendant connived at the substitution of a lower and inferior quality
of cotton in place of that, called for by the bills of lading, although the marks may have been such as called for by the
bills of lading, then the defendant is liable. While, if from
the proof you are satisfied that when the agents of the defendant actually shipped the cotton they had no knowledge of
the difference in quality between the cotton so shipped and
that called for by-the biW of lading, and had 'no knowledge
that .the cotton was, in fact, inferior to that called for by the
bills of lading, and that the grade-marks on the bales had been
changed from marks indicating a lower grade to marks called
'for by the bills of lading, then the defendant is not liable.
"You are to determine, then, as a question of fact, from the
-

testimony-

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

"First. Whether it was in the course of business in the
handling of this cotton in the ,varehouse to set apart and keep
separate the cotton covered by each bill of lading from the
time such bill of lading was issued, or whether the defendant's
agent, O'Connor, only satisfied himself, through the agency
of Martin or his employes, that there was enough cotton, as
stated in the bills of lading, to fill such bill as part of a common lot answering to the same description. As, for illustration, there might be in a railroad warehouse in this city,
10,000 barrels of flour of one brand, and ten bills of lading
might be issued, each to a different person, calling each for
1000 barrels of this lot of flour. No one barrel would be
specifically set apart as belonging to any one of these bills of
lading; but any one of the 10,000 barrels would be liable to
be shipped on any of these bills of lading-that is, it would
be assumed that the entire lot was uniform and alike in quality, and it would, therefore, make no difference to the persons
to whom it was shipped which particular barrel of flour he
got. If such was the mode of doing business in thiG compress
,warehouse, and Potter understood it, then the defendant was
not obliged to keep separate cotton called for by each bill of
lading, but could fill the bill of lading out of the common lot
bearing the same marks.
"Second. Did the agents of the defendant in charge of the
issue of these bills of lading and the shipment of this cotton
know the grade-marks of this cotton called for by the bills of
lading; and did they know that this 525 bales in question was
of an inferior grade to that called for by the bills of lading;
and did they knowingly accept this inferior quality of cotton
in place of that called for by the bills of lading, and ship the
same to plaintiffs?
"As I have stated, a common carrier is not, as a rule, a
guarantor of the q iality of the goods transported, but it is
bound to transport and deliver the identical goods covered by
its contract, where such identity can be established, and,
therefore, if at the time these bills of lading were issued it
was not intended that they should cover any specific bales,
but only a given number of bales, bearing certain common

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

marks, without regard to quality, as understood by the defendant's agents, and that the defendant did ship the number
of bales called for by the bills of lading, and marked as required by the bills of lading, with no knowledge or information that the cotton contained in those bales was inferior
to that called for by the bills of lading, then the defendantis
not liable.
"But if you are satisfied, from the proof, that the agents of
the defendant knew at the time they received and shipped the
525 bales in question that it was inferior in quality to that
called for by the bills of lading, and -thatfraudulent or false
grade-marks had been put upon these bales corresponding to
the marks called for by the bills of lading, then the defendant
is liable.
"The defendant having, as I have already stated to you,
assumed the responsibility of a warehouseman in regard to
this cotton while it was being compressed and prepared for
shipment, was obliged to see to it that the cotton it had receipted for was kept on hand for shipment, and had no right,.
knowingly, to allow a lower grade of cotton to be substituted
for that called for by the bills of lading."
The suggestion in the charge of the court of a possible
ground of liability on the part of the defendant as a warehouseman was entirely outside of the issues. The defendant
was not sued upon the ground of any such alleged liability.
:No facts and circumstances out of which any duty as warehouseman could arise were set 'Out in the declaration; the
action was upon the bills of lading alone. The contract
alleged to have been made and broken was contained in them.
.The duty charged to have been violated was the duty of the
defendant as a common carrier for an alleged negligence in
the transportation of the goods. And if the defendant could
be supposed, upon the facts proven, to have incurred liability
in its character as warehouseman, as distinguished from its
capacity as a carrier, that liability was not incurred in respect
to the plaintiffs. It is not charged that the defendant, as a
warehouseman, received any goods as their property for the
purpose of storage and safekeeping. Its relation as a ware-

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

houseman was with Potter, and him alone. It was an error,
therefore, in the court tp charge the jury that the defendant
might be charged in this action for the loss in question upon
its responsibility as a warehouseman to the plaintiffs.
It may be contended, however, that in one possible view of
the, fact this error was not prejudicial to the defendant. It
may be said that the defendant's liability as a common carrier
commenced at a time antecedent to the delivery of the cotton
to be loaded on the cars; that it might have arisen upon a
prior delivery of the cotton in question in the warehouse to
be compressed, and then transported, the duty of compressing
it, in order to prepare it for transportation, having been
undertaken by the defendant. This however, could only be
when the specific goods, as the property of the plaintiffs, were
delivered for that purpose into the exclusive possession and
control of the defendant. Such was not the case in the present instance. No specific bales of cotton, as the property of
the plaintiffs, separate from all others, were delivered to the
defendant for them until the 525 bales in controversy were. set
apart and delivered to the defendant for immediate transportation on its cars; and prior to that time all cotton received
in the warehouse to be compressed was received as the pioperty of Potter, on his aqcount, and subject, so far as grading,
classifying, and marking were concerned, to his control, and
none of it could be considered as having passed into the possession of the defendant as a common carrier for transporta-,
tion until designated and set apart by Potter or his agents.
The cotton receiv.ed at the compress warehouse came consigned to Potter upon bills of lading issued by other railroad
and transportation companies at the point of shipment for delivery to him at' Texarkana. Supposing, as one view of the
eviddnce authorizes, the bills of lading were issued. by the
agents of the defendant to Potter in advance of the actual
delivery of the cotton in the warehouse, on the faith of the
bills of lading produced and surrendered by him given by
other carriers, still the cotton, as it came and accumulated in
the warehouse for the purpose of being compressed, coittinued
to be the property of Potter, subject to his control in the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

spects already mentioned, and until specific lots were marked
and designated, so as to correspond with the bills of lading
previously issued by the defendant, the latter had no possession of the property as a carrier. The undisputed facts are
that the whole quantity of cotton purchased by Potter, and
received on his account in the warehouse, did not answer the
grades and descriptions according to which he had sold it to
different purchasers. He was unable out of the cotton to perform all of these contracts. The whole number of bales
received by him were sufficient in number, and they were all
tra4lsported according to his directions. It is not claimed that
any of them were converted to the use of the railroad company, or -that any of them were delivered by the railroad
company, after they were received for transportation,, to any
other than the proper consignees.
The court below, however, charged the jury that, notwithstanding "no specific bales of cotton were set apart or considered as forming the particular bales to be shipped on these bills
of lading," if "it was understood between Potter and the
defendant that, out of the lot or quantity of bales marked in
the manner designated in these bills of lading, a sufficient
number to make up what are called for by those bills of lading
should be shipped," that "then the defendant was bound to
ship the number of bales called for by these bills of lading
out of the larger quarqtity bearing the same common marks,"
if the jury "find from the proof that the cotton in question
was to be drawn from a larger lot bearing the same common
marks."
This charge seems to assume that, during the prooTess of
the receipt and accumulation of cotton for Potter in the warehouse, there was a sufficient number of bales of the proper
grade and quality, and from time to time so marked, to satisfy
the bills of lading sued on; and that it was, therefore, the duty
of the defendant so to apply them; but it ignores the fact
that they were actually applied to satisfy other bills of lading
in the hands of parties equally entitled to call for them, and
also the more important, because controlling, fact that they
were thus applied by the order and direction of Potter, the

IRON MOUNTAIN RAILWAY v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court

owner and consignor, who had the right so to direct. There
was no relation established between the plaintiffs and the defendant, in respect to the cotton described in their bills of lading, oub of which any duty or obligation could arise with
respect to it on the part of the defendant until the specific lots
of cotton intended for the plaintiffs had been separated and
set apart by Potter, and by him delivered to the defendant
for immediate transportation, according to the terms of the
bills of lading.
The court also instructed the jury, as shown by the extracts
from the charge already made, that if the agent of the defendant accepted the cotton in question for shipment, knowing
at the time that it was of a quality inferior to that called for
by the bills of lading which the defendant had issued for it,
and the marks on the bales or packages had been changed
from marks indicating a lower grade or quality of cotton to
marks indicating the grade called for by the bills of lading,
then the defendant was liable. This charge seems to have
been given independently of any other circumstances than the
mere fact of such knowledge. Possibly it was intended to be
taken only in connection with the previous portion of the
charge already considered, fixing upon the defendant the duty
of selecting the spedific quantity called for by these bills of
lading out of any larger lot that may from time to time have
been on hand in the warehouse answering the same description; and this instruction, therefore, may have been intended
by the court as a qualification of what had been previously
said. It stands, however, and may have been so understood
by the jury, as a complete and separate statement of a distinct
ground of liability. In either view, we think it erroneous.
If intendad as a qualification of the preceding instruction, it
does not have the effect of correcting it in the particulars in
which we have found it to be erroneous; standing by itself,
we think it also to be erroneous. Taken, as it must be, in.
view of the undisputed facts, it would make it to have been
the duty of the defendant, when the cotton in question was
tendered by Potter for delivery to the railroad company to be
carried under the terms of the bills-of lading sued on, to have

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

refused the shipmeit altogether, on the ground that the goods
offered did not correspond in grade and quality with those
called for by the bills of lading. As we have already seen,
the defendant undertook no-such obligation in respect to these
plaintiffs. The only alternative, if they did not receive them,
would be to reject them altogether, and to refuse to, carry
thebl. In that event, upon the facts as they stood, the plaintiffs would have lost the whole 525 bales, instead of 'merely
the difference between the value of those actually carried and
those which Potter had agreed to deliver. For, on this sufposition, Potter had no other-cotton except this to deliver, and
the case would have stood, as between the plaintiffs and the
defendant, upon bills of lading where no property at all had
been received by the carrier for transportation, bringing it
exactly within the rule :declared in Pollard v. Vinton, 105
U.S. 17.
ItXis argued, however, on the part of the defendant, in error,
that the defences made by the defendant below, based on the
propositions we have considered, were not open to it on the
pleadings. The only plea was the general issue of non assumpsit, not verified by an affidavit of its truth. The law of
Illinois, as declared by statute, declares that "No person shall
be permitted to deny on trial the execution or assignment of
any instrument in writing, whether sealed or not, upon which
any action may have been brought, or which shall be pleaded
*or set up by way of defence or set-off, or is admissible under
the pleadings when a copy is filed, unless the person so denying ,the same shall, if defendant, verify his plea by affidavit."
Hurd's Revised Statutes of Illinois, Practice Act, § 34. This
statute regulates the practice and pleadings in similar cases in
the Circuit Court of the United States for that district by.virtue of § 914 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
This provision, however, is not applicable to the circumstances
of this case. The execution of the bills of lading, which are
the written instruments on which the action is founded, is not
denied by anything set up on the part of the defendant below.
Their existence and validity, so far as their form and terms are
involved, are not in question. The only questions made and

THE MANITOBA.
Syllabus. ,

decided are those which 'relate to their legal effect when considered with reference to the facts and circumstances of the
case as disclosed in the evidence. The defence actually shown
by them, so far as the present record is concerned, is not that
the bills of lading were not valid and binding, but that the
contract contained in them has been fully performed by the
defendant.
In accordance with these views,
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
is rernuxnded, with directions to grant a new trial.

THE ]X.ANITOBA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued May 5, 1887. - Decided May 23, 1887.

Prior to a collision between two steam vessels, the 0. and the M., they were
moving on nearly parallel, opposite, but slightly converging lines, and
that fact was apparent to the officers of both for some considerable time
before the C. ported and ran across the course of the MI. The M. did
not slaken her speed, or signal her intentions, or reverse until it was too
late. The relative courses of the vessels, and the bearing of their lights,
and the manifest uncertainty as to the intentions of the C., in connection
with all the surrounding facts, called for the closest watch and the highest degree of diligence, on the part of each, with reference to the
movements of the other: Held, that, although the C. was in fault, the M.
was also in fault for not indicating her course by her whistle, and for
not slowing, and for not reversing until too late.
The proper mode of applying a limitation of liability, where both vessels
are in fault and the damages are divided, and both vessels are allowed
such limitation, stated.
The M. having been bonded, *n the limited liability proceedings, on a bond
in a fixed sum, conditioned to "1abide and answer the decree," that sum
does not carry interest until the date of the decree of the District
Court.
Tie loss of the C., with interest from the date of the collision to the date
of the decree of the Circuit Court, exceeded the loss of the M., with like
interest, by a suim, one-half of which was greater than the amount of
such bond, with interest from the date of the decree of the District
VOL. qR;-7

