BURLINGTON, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. DUNN.

513

Statement of the Case.

mony of witnesses, who had been intimate with him for years,
and knew his general habits, may well have satisfied the jury
that, whatever excesses he may at times have committed, he
was not habitually intemperate."
We think this language eminently applicable to the case
before us.
The questions presented by these requests do not rise to the
dignity even of mixed law and fact, but are questions the
answers to which are governed by no settled principle or rule
of law, established either by statute or by a recognized coarse
of judicial decision. They are emphatically questions of fact,
which it is the province of a jury to docide, and in regard to
which they are or ought to be as capable of making a decision
as the court or anybody else.
The judgment of the Circuit Court i8, therefore, aflrmed.

BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN

RAILWAY COMPANY v. DUNN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MITlNESOTA.
Submitted April 29, 1887. - Decided May 27, 1887.
When a petition for a removal of the cause to a Circuit Court of the United
States is filed in a cause pending in a state court, the only question left
for the state court to determine is the question of law whether, admitting the facts stated in the petition to be .true, it appears on the face of
the, record, including the petition, the pleadings and the proceedings
down to that time, that the petitioner is entitled .to a removal; and if an
issue of fact is made upon the petition, that issue must be tried in the
Circuit Court.

THE Federal question brought up by the writ of error in
this case related to the right of removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court
VOL. cx=-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

XrM.ELffa Hunton and .Mr. J
in error.
XPt&. Enoch Totten and XMr'.
error.

rTson Chandler for plaiiitiff

. 1D. O'Brien for defendant in

Mn. CHiEF JusTcE WArm delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the District Court of Ramsey
County, Miiinesota, by Charles L. Dunn, a minor, to recover
damages for personal injuries which he had received- while
travelling as a passenger on the railroad of the ,Burington,
Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway Company. The company answered the complaint in the. action, and then filed a
petition under ยง 639 of the Revised Statues, verified by the
oath of its president, for the removal of the suit to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, on
the ground of prejudice and local influence. The petition was
accompanied by the necessary security. It set forth that the
railway company was an Iowa corporation, and consequently,
in law, a citizen of that state, and Dunn, the plaintiff, a citizen
of Minnesota.

Under ยง 639 a suit cannot be removed from a

state court to a Circuit Court of the United States, except it
be one between a citizen of the state in which the suit was
brought and a citizen of another state, and then only by the
.citizen of the latter state. Immediately on the presentation
of the petition.for removal, the attorney for the plaintiff filed
a. counter 'affidavit to the effect that the plaintiff was not a
citizen of Minnesota, but of the territory of Montana. No
further proof being offered on this point, the court ruled that
,.a case for removal had not been made out, and that the suit
must
m
be retained for trial. Accordingly a trial was afterwards
had in the state court, which resulted in a judgment against
the company. An appeal was then taken to the Supreme
Court of the state, where the judgment of the District Court
was in all respects affirmed, including the rulings on the question of*removal. To reverse that judgment this writ of error
was brought.

BURLINGTON,

&c., RAILWAY CO. v. DUNN. -'515
Opinion of the Court

The assignment of errors presents but a single question, and
that is whether, as after the petition for removal had been
filed the record showed on its face that the state court ought
to proceed no further, it was competent for that court to allow
an issue of fact to be made upon the statements in the petition,
and to retain the suit because on that issue the railway company had not shown by.testimony that the plaintiff was actually a citizen of Minndsota.
It must be confessed thdt previous to the cases of Stone v.
South Carolina, lt7'U. S. .430, 432, and Carson v. ]Eyatt, 118
U. S. 279, decided at the last term, the utterances of this
court, on that question, had not always been as clear and distinct as they might have been. Thus, in Gordon v. Longest,
16 Pet. 97, in speaking of removals under ยง 12 of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, it was said, p. 103, "it must be, made to appear
to the satisfaction of the state court that the defendant is an
alien, or a citizen of some other state than that in which the
suit was brought;" and in Raikway Comnpany.v. .Ramsey, 22
Wall 322, 328, thai, "if upon the hearing of the petition it is
sustained by the proof, the state court can proceed no further."
In other cases expressions of a similar character ar6 found,
which seem to imply that the state courts were at liberty to
consider the actual facts, as well as the law arising on the face
of the record, after the presentation of the petition for removal. At the last term it was found 'that this question had
become a practical one, about which there wasa difference of
opinion in the state courts, and to some extent in the circuit
courts,.and so, in deciding Stone v. South Cirolina,we took
occasion to say: "All issues of fact made upon the petition
for removal must he tried in-the Circuit Court, but the state
court is at liberty to determine for itself whether, on the face
of the record, a removal has been effected. It is true, as was
remarked by the Supreme Judicial Court- of Massachusetts in
Avhy v. .Manning,.144 Mass. 153, that this was not necessary
to the decision in that case, but it was said- on full consideration and with the view of announcing the opinion of the court
on that subject. Only. tWo weeks after that case was decided
Carson v. Hyatt came. up for determination, in.which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

precise question was directly presented, as the allegation of
citizenship in the petition for removal was contradicted by a
statement in the answer, and it became necessary to determine what the fact really was. We there affirmed what had
been said in Stone v. Sutk Caro'ina,and decided that it was
error in the state court to proceed further with the suit after
the petition for removal was filed, because the Circuit Court
alone had jurisdiction to try the question of fact which was
involved. This rule was again recognized "at this term in
Carnon v. Dunim, 121 U. S. 421, and is in entire -harmony

with all that had been previously decided, though not with all
that had been said in the opinions'in some of the cases. To
our minds it is the true rule and calculated to produce less
inconvenience than any other.
The theory on which it rests is, that the record closes, so far
as the question of removal .is concerned, when the petition for
removal is filed ajad the necessary security furnished. It presents then to the state court a pure question of law, and that
is, whether, admitting the facts stated in the petition for removal to be true, it appears on the face of the record, which
includes the petition and the pleadings and proceeings down
to that time, that the petitioner is entitled to a removal of the
suit. That question the state court has the right to decide for
itself, and if it errs in keeping the case, and the highest court
of the state affirms its decision, this court has jurisdiction to
correct the error, considering, for that purpose, only the part
of the record which ends with the petition for removal. Stone
v. South Caorolina, 117 U. S. 430, and cases there cited.
But'even though the state court should refuse to, stop proceedings, the petitioning party may enter a copy of the record
of that court, as it stood on the filing of his petition, in the
Circuit Court, and have the suit docketed there. If the Circuit. Court errs in taking jurisdiction, the other side may bfing
the decision here for review, after final judgment or decree, if
the value of the. matter in dispute is sufficient in amount.
Railroad Compazny v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5, 15. In that case,
the same as in the writ of error to the state court, the question
will be decided on the face of the part of the record of the

BURLINGTON, &c.,

RAILWAY CO. v. DUNN.

517

Opinion of the Court.

state court which ends with the petition for removal, for the
Circuit Court can no more take a case until its jurisdiction is
shown by the record, than the state court can be required to
let it go until the record shows that its jurisdiction has been
lost. The questions in the two courts will be identical, and
will depend on the same record, namely, that-in the state
court ending with the petition for removal. The record remaining in the state court will be the original; that in the
Circuit Court an exact copy.
But,, inasmuoh as the petitioning party has the right to
enter the suit in the Circuit Court, notwithstanding the state
court declines to stop proceedings, it is easy to see that if both
courts can try the issues of fact which may be made on the
petition for removal, the records from the two courts brought
here for review will not necessarily always be the same. The
*testimony produced bef6re one court may be entirely different
from that in the other, and the decisions of both courts may
be' right upon the facts as presented to them respectively.
Such a state of things should be avoided if possible, and this
can only be done by making one court the exclusive judge-of
the facts. Upon that question there ought not to be a divided
jurisdiction. It must rest with one court alone, and that, in
our opinion, is more properly the Circuit Court. 'The case can
be docketed in that court on the first day of the 'next term,
and the issue tried at once. If decided against the removal,
the questior iF now, by the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24
Stat. 552, put at rest, and the jurisdiction of the state court
established in the appropriate way. Under the act of March
3, 1875, c. 13, 18 Stat. 470, such an order could have been
brought here for review by appeal or writ of error, and to
expedite such hearings our Rule 32,was adopted.
Upon this record as it now stands the state court was wrong
in proceeding with the suit, and for that reason
2he judgment of ihe Bu.preme Court -is reversed, and the
cause remanded for f/urter proceeding'in onformity

wita this opiion.

