THE MANITOBA.
Syllabus. ,

decided are those which 'relate to their legal effect when considered with reference to the facts and circumstances of the
case as disclosed in the evidence. The defence actually shown
by them, so far as the present record is concerned, is not that
the bills of lading were not valid and binding, but that the
contract contained in them has been fully performed by the
defendant.
In accordance with these views,
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
is rernuxnded, with directions to grant a new trial.

THE ]X.ANITOBA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued May 5, 1887. - Decided May 23, 1887.

Prior to a collision between two steam vessels, the 0. and the M., they were
moving on nearly parallel, opposite, but slightly converging lines, and
that fact was apparent to the officers of both for some considerable time
before the C. ported and ran across the course of the MI. The M. did
not slaken her speed, or signal her intentions, or reverse until it was too
late. The relative courses of the vessels, and the bearing of their lights,
and the manifest uncertainty as to the intentions of the C., in connection
with all the surrounding facts, called for the closest watch and the highest degree of diligence, on the part of each, with reference to the
movements of the other: Held, that, although the C. was in fault, the M.
was also in fault for not indicating her course by her whistle, and for
not slowing, and for not reversing until too late.
The proper mode of applying a limitation of liability, where both vessels
are in fault and the damages are divided, and both vessels are allowed
such limitation, stated.
The M. having been bonded, *n the limited liability proceedings, on a bond
in a fixed sum, conditioned to "1abide and answer the decree," that sum
does not carry interest until the date of the decree of the District
Court.
Tie loss of the C., with interest from the date of the collision to the date
of the decree of the Circuit Court, exceeded the loss of the M., with like
interest, by a suim, one-half of which was greater than the amount of
such bond, with interest from the date of the decree of the District
VOL. qR;-7

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
Court tothe date of the decree of the Circuit Court. It was, therefore,
proper for the Circuit Court to award to the C., as damages, the amount
of the bond, with such interest.

Iw admiralty. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
3fr. F. H. Caqftd for appellants. 2W . WV1iam A. 2foore
was with him on the brief.
.fr. HeVn' H. Swan for appellees. -Mr..1. Z. TerrelZ filed
a brief for same.
MR.

JusTiOE Br.TcBOIom delivered the opinion of the court.

The propeller Comet and the steamboat Manitoba came into
collision between 8 and 9 o'clock in the evening of the 26th of
August, 1875, on the waters of Lake Superior, about six or
seven miles to the southward and eastward from Whitefish
Point, on the south shore of that lake, the Comet being bound
from Grand Island, 'in Lake Superior, t(5 Cleveland, Ohio, and
the Manitoba being on a voyage from Sarnia, Ontario, to Dulath, in Minnesota. The Manitoba struck the Comet on her
port bow, causing her to sink almost immediately, and she and
her cargo were totally lost. The Manitoba was also injured.
Howard M1. Hanna and George W. Chapin, as owners of the
Comet, filed a libel n e. against the Manitoba, on the 4th of
September, 1875, in the District Court of the United -States
for the Eastern District of Michigan, to recover damages for
the loss of the Comet and her cargo and freight -money, claiming $70,125, being $30,000 for the Comet, -$35,000 for her
cargo, and $5125 as freight iioney. The libel alleges, that
the collision was occasioned solely by the negligence and unskilfulness of- the persons navigating the Manitoba, "in not
having proper officers and men on duty and at their posts, in,
not porting, signalling answering signals or stopping engine,
and in starboarding and running into and upon said propeller,
and, by said omissions of duty, and other omissions of duty,
and by said and other wrong movements and misconduct, solely
causing said collision, and making it inevitable by any conduct,

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of the Court.

vigilance, or effort on the "part of those in charge. of the"
Comet.
The statement of the libel is that the Comet made the white
light, and, shortly afterward, the red light of the Manitoba,
off the port bow of the Comet, the night being clear; that the
Manitoba was on a course opposite or nearly opposite to that
of the Comet; that. the Comet proceeded on her course -with
such red light off her port bow, and properly ported her helm,
and gave a single blast of her whistle, and stopped her engine;
and, that, although the lights of the Comet were properly set
and burning, and visible to the Manitoba, the Manitoba, instead of porting and taking further measures to avoid the
Comet, starboarded her wheel and struck the Comet on her
port bow.
Henry Beatty and John D. Beatty appeared as claimants of
the Manitoba, and, with Robert J.Hackett and Frederick B.
Sibley as sureties, gave a bond for the releasp of the Manitoba,
in the sum of $28,948.85, $200 of that sum being for costs.
On the 17'th of IN3vember, 1875, James H. Beatty, Henry
Beatty, William Beatty and John D. Beatty answered the
libel of the owners of the Comet. The answer denies the version of the occurrence given in the libel, and avers that the
2MVanitoba made the bright light of the Comet when the Comet
was heading upon nearly, if not quite, a parallel, opposite
course to that of the Manitoba, the Manitoba -being on a;
course about northwest half north; that the Comet showed
her bright an c green lights, bearing from one-half to threequarters of a point on the starboard bow of the Manitoba;
that the Maiitoba starboarded half a point and was steadied
on that course; that the Comet cbntinued to approach the
Manitoba, showing only her white and green lights, and as if
to pass at a good, fair berth on the starboard hand of the
Manitoba, until she appeared to be but a short distance off,
when she was observed by the watch of the Manitoba to be
swinging across the bows of the Manitoba, as if undei a port
wheel, upon which the engine of the Manitoba was at once
checked, stopped, and backed, but it was not possible for her
to avoid the collision; and that the Manitoba suffered $5000

OCTOBER TERm, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

damages. The answer denies the allegations of fault in the
Manitoba, set forth in the libel, and alleges that the collision
was caused entirely by the fault of those navigating the
Comet, in that (1) she did not have competent officers and
watch on deck carefully attending to duty; (2) she did not
keep her course and pass the Manitoba on her starboard hand,
but recklessly attempted to cross the bow. of the Manitoba
when she was so near as to make collision probable; (3) she
did not stop and reverse, but kept up a reckless speed, in her
approach to the Manitoba, 11when there was risk of collision."
The answer also avers that, with the claim filed to the Manitoba, after her seizure under the warrant for her arrest, the
respondents filed a petition setting forth that the claim of the
libellants was much greater than the value of the Manitoba
and her freight, and praing that she, and her freight thon
pending, might be appraised; and that such proceedings were
had that the claimants gave a bond, with sureties, in the sum
of $28,950 as a substitute for the vessel and her freight then
pending. The answer claims the bendfit of a limitation of
liability, under the act of Congress, against any recovery for
any sum greater than the penal sum named in said bond.
On the same day, the owners of the Manitoba filed a crosslibel against Hanna and Chapin, as owners of the Comet, to
recover the damages caused to the Manitoba by the collision,
being $5000. The cross-libel gives the same account of the
collision that is given in the answer to the libel, and alleges
the same faults on the part of the Comet.
The case rested in this position for more than two years,
when Hanna and Chapin filed an answer to the cross-libel,
denying its allegations as to the facts attending the collision,
alleging the facts to be as set forth in the original libel, and
denying any fault on the part of the Comet. It also avers,
that, as the Comet and her pending freight were totally lost
by.the collision, her owners became, by virtue of § 4283 of the
Revised Statutes, discharged from any liability to the crosslibellants by reason of the collision.
The two cases were heaid together before the District
Court, and, on the 29th of April, 1878, it made a decree, on

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of'the Court.

-

pleadings and proofs, that the damages be divided, and referred
it to a conmissioner to report their amount.
On the 14th of June, 1880, the commissioner reported asfollows: value of the Comet, a total loss, $25,000; value of
her cargo, $31,941.88; freight money earned by -her at the
time of the collision, $500; making a total of 857,441.88. He
reported the damage to the Manitoba to be $5000.
On a hearing on the'report, the District Court, on the 15th
of March, 1882, made a decree, entitled in both causes, confirming the report at the amounts so reported by the commissioner. The decree then proceeded as follows: "And it fur'ther appearing to the court, that the said libellants and crosslibellants have respectively claimed the benefit of the act of
Congress of the United States entitled 0'An Act to limit the
liability of ship-owners, and for other purposes,' being §§ 4283,
4284, 4285 and 4286 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and that the said steamer Manitoba has been dulSr
bonded in accordance with the provisions of said statutes, by
Henry Beatty and John D. Beatty, claimants, and Robert J.
Hackett and Frederick B. Sibley, as sureties, in the sum of
$28,694.95, by their bond or stipulation, conditioned to abide
the decree of this court, and consenting that unless they shall
so do execution should issue against them therefor, which sum
is less than'the damages occasioned by said collision; and this
court having, by its interlocutory decree heretofore entered in
this cause, found that both said vessels were in fault for said
cgilision, and that the damages occasioned thereby, be equally
divided, it is, therefore, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that
said libellantg recover from the said claimants and their sureties the surmof twenty-eight thoushnd six hundred ninety-four
ju (828,694.95), being the amount of said bond or stipulation,
ahd that said libellants have execution therefor against said
Henry Beatty, John D. Beatty, Robert J. Hackett, and FreO
erick B. Sibley; 'and it is further ordered that neither the libe,
lants nor the cross-libellants herein recover cbsts against the
other." This decree Was proper in its figures. Allowing interest on the damages from the date of the collision to the
date of the decree (which was proper) and fixing the liability

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

for the $28,694.95 as of the date of the decree, (which was
proper, in view of the fact that the condition of the bond was
to "'abide' and answer the decree," and, so the $28,694.65 did
not carry interest prior to the date of the decree,) the Manitoba was liable to pay to the Comet $36,476.74, on a proper
computation based on a division of the damages, according to
the principle of computation hereinafter stated, and the Manitoba had the proper limitation .of liability in paying only
$28,694.65, at the date of the decree. The discrepancy between that amount and the amount stated in the bond is not
explained, but is not remarked upon by the parties. The
obligors in such a bond are not liable for interest prior to the
decree of the District Court, but are liable for interest from
the date of such decree. The Ann, Caroline,2 Wall. 538; The
Tfanata, 95 U. S. 600.
The owners of the Manitoba, on the 13th of April, 1882,
appealed to the Circuit Court from so much of the final
decree of the District Court, of March 15, 1882, as adjudged
the Manitoba to be in fault for the collision, and also from so
much of that decree as awarded to Hanna and Chapin the
sum of $28,694.95, "without any deduction or allowance
therefrom to these appellants on account of injurieg occasioned by said collision to the said steamer Manitoba," and
also from so much of the interlocutory decree of the 29th of
April, 187.8, as decreed that the Manitoba was in fault for the
collision, and that the damages occasioned thereby should be
equally divided between the owners of the Comet and the
owners of the Manitoba. The ownefs of the Manitoba perfected their appeal, by giving a stipulation for damages and
,costs, in the sum of $35,000, in the names of James H. Beatty,
Henry Beatty, and John D. Beatty, with the Detroit Dry
Dock Company as surety. The owners of the Comet did- not
appeal. The Circuit Court heard the case on pleadings and
proofs, and filed its finding of facts and conclusions of law,
entitled* in both causes, on the 26th of December, 1883, as

follows
"That the collision between the propeller Comet and the
steamship Manitoba took place between the hours of eight

THE XANITOBA
O inion of the Court.

and nine o'clock on the night of the 26th of August, 1875, and
at about six or seven miles distant from, and to the southward
and eastward of, White Fish Point, on the south shore of
lake Superior; that at that time said propeller was bound
down the lake, upon a voyage from Grand Island to Cleveland; Ohio, and, when she made the Manitoba's light, her general course was southward. The Manitoba was moving in
nearly an opposite direction, on a voyage from Sarnia, Ontario, to Duluth, Minnesota., She first made the Comet's
light when she was between White Fish Point and Point
Iroquois, h~r generai course then'being northwest half north.
The officers of each of the colliding vessels discovered, soon
after the Comet had rounded White Fish Point, first the
white and soon thereafter the green lights of each other, and
they continued to approach each other on nearly parallel
opposite courses, each showing to the other her white and
green lights only. Both vessels had the usual complement of
officers and men. When they were from one and a half to
two miles apart the Manitoba had the Comet's green light
about. three-quarters of a point on her starboard bow. The
M[anitoba then starboarded her wheel half a point, and continued her course without change until just before the collision. In the meantime the Comet.ported her wheel for the
second time half a point, and the two vessels thus continued
to approach each other, showing their green and white lights
only, until they had come within from 400 to 500 feet of each
other, the Comet being then from 200 to 300 feet on the starboard side of the Manitoba, and,- if each, had kept their
respective coirtes, they would have passed without colliding;
but at this junctur'e the Comet ported her wheel, displayed
her red light, and suddenly sheered across the Manitoba's
course. .The Manitoba thereupon starboarded her wheel, and
the collision ensued. At the time, the Manitoba was running
about eleven and the Comet about nine miles an hour. The
Manitoba struck the Comet on her port bow, which caused
her to sink in about.two minutes, whereby she and her cargo
*were irrecoverably lost and the Manitoba quite severely injured. Neither of said vessels sounded any signal of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

whistle, indicating the side it intended or desired to take, nor
did either of them reverse its engine or slacken its speed
until the collision was inevitable, but the Manitoba did, just
before or about the time it collided with the Comet, reverse
its engine. The fact that the two vessels were moving 'on
nearly parallel, opposite, but slightly converging, lines was
manifest and apparent to the officers of both, for some considerable time before the Comet ported and ran across the
Manitoba's course, as hereinbefore stated. 1evertheless,
neither, as hereinbefore stated, slackened speed, changed its
course, or signalled its intentions. The relative courses of
these vessels, and the bearing of their lights, and the manifest
uncertainty as to the Comet's intentions, in connection with
all the surrounding facts, called for the closest watch, and the
highest degree of diligence, on the part of both; with reference to the movements of the other, and it behooved, those in
*charge of them to be prompt in availing themselves of any
resource to avoid, not only a collision, but the risk of such a
catastrophe. If the requisite precautions had been observedby both or by either of said vessels, the collision, in' the
opinion of the court, would not have happened. Each vessel
misapprehended the purposes of the other. The Comet was
endeavoring to apply art. 18 of c. 5, title 'Commerce and
Navigation,' of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
while the Manitoba probably believed, until the Comet's sudden sheer across her bow, that the Comet intended to pass on
her starboard side. It was this misapprehension on the part
of said respective vessels, which might have been timely
obviated by proper signals from either, that occasioned the
collision."
The court then finds the value of the Comet, and of her
cargo and pending freight, and the damage to the Manitoba,
at the amounts reported by the commissioner; that the value
of the Manitoba and her pending freight was duly appraised
under the order of the District Court, and proceedings were
had pursuant to § 4283 to 4286 of the Revised Statutes, and
security was filed for such appraised value in the suni of
$28,694.95; and that the owners of both vessels claimed and

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of the Court.

are entitled to the benefit of those sections. The court then
proceeds:
"_And from these facts the court deduces the following conclusions of law: 1. That said vessels were not meeting end
on or nearly end on, within the meaning of art. 18, of c. 5,
of tit. XL.III, 'Commerce and Navigation,' of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and that the Manitoba was not,
in view of the circumstances of the case, in fault for the starboarding her wheel just prior to said collision.. 2. That the
immediate or proximate cbuse of the collision was the putting
by the Comet of her wheel hard-a-port, as herein previously
found, and endeavoring to cross on the port side of the Manitoba, and that she was in fault for so doing. "3. That the
Manitoba was'in fault in ignoring the fact that the Comet
was approaching under a port wheel, and that the courses of
the. two vessels were convergent and involved risk of collision,
and in. failing to take proper precaution in time to prevent the
collision which afterwards occurred. 4. That she was further
in 'fault in not indicating her course by her whistle, and for
not slowing up, and in failing to reverse her engine until it
was too late to accomplish anything thereby. 5. That both
vessels were in fault in failing to take necessary and proper
precautions against collision, which the circumstances mani-.
festly required, and that the damages occasioned by said collision ought to be equally apportioned between said two vessels." The court further finds, that the libellants are entitled
to recover from the owners of the Manit6ba, and their sureties
on appeal, by reason of the limited liability'proceedings, only
the sum of $28,694.95, and interest thereon from March 7,
1882, the date of the decree of the District Court, together
with the costs of the libellants oh the appeal; that, to the
extent of the 828,694.95, the libellants are entitled to 'enforce
payment of their damages against the claimants of the -Manitoba, and their surviving surety, on the stipulation fied in the
District Court for the appraised value of the Manitoba; and
that, by reason of the total loss of the Comet alad. her cargo,
and the provisions as to limited liability, and the fact that one
moiety of the damages suffdred- by the libellants far exceeds

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the damages suffered by the owners of the Manitoba, and
interest thereon, the owners of the Manitoba are not entitledto recover any sum whatever from the libellants.
On the 18th of March, 1884, the Circuit Court made a final
decree, entitled in both causes, which fixes the damages at the
amounts reported by the commissioner, and declares that both
vessels were in fault for the collision; that the damages shall
be equally divided; that the owners of both vessels claim and
are entitled to the benefit of a limitation of liability; and
that the sum of $28,694.95, at which the Manitoba and her
pending freight were appraised in the limited liability proceedings and bonded, is less than one moiety of the damages
occasioned by the collision; and then proceeds as follows:
"It is, therefore, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that said
libellants, Howard M. Hanna and George W. Chapin, do recover of and from said James H. Beatty, Henry Beatty, William Beatty, and John D. Beatty, claimants of said steamer
Manitoba, and appellants herein, and of and from the Detroit
Dry Dock Company, their surety on the bond or stipulation
on appeal, filed in this court, the sum of $28,694.95, and the
fur.ther sum of $3395.50, being the interest, at six per cent
per annum, on the aforesaid sum of $28,694.95 from the 7th
day of M arch, 1882, the date of the decree of the District
Court, to the date of the decree of this court herein, in all,
the sum of $32,090.45, together also with the costs of said
libellants in this court, to be taxed, upon the appeal of said
claimants of said steamer Manitoba from the decree of the
District Court on said libel and cross-libel.
"And it further appearing to the court, that said Robert J.
Hackett, one of the sureties on the bond or stipulation filed
in the District Court for the appraised value of the steamer
Manitoba and her freight, as aforesaid, has deceased, it is, therefore, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that said libellants, Howard M . Hanna and George W. Chapin, do recover of and
from the sid James H. Beatty, Henry Beatty, William Beatty,
and John D. Beatty, claimants of the steamer Manitoba, and
Frederick B. Sibley, their surviving surety upon the bond for
the appraised value of said steamer Manitoba and her freight

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of the Court.

pending at the time of the collision mentioned in the pleadings in this cause, the sum of $28,694.95, in case of non-payment thereof by the claimants and their surety on appeal to
this court.
"And that said libellants, Howard M. Hanna and George
W. Chapin, have execution for the damages and cbsts to them.
adjudged and decreed by the judgment and decree of. this
court, against 'said claimants, James -Beatty, Henry Beatty,
William Beatty, and John D. Beatty, and the Detroit Dry
Dock Company, their surety on the bond or stipulation given
by said claimants on appeal to this court, for the aforesaid
sum of $28,694.95, and said further sum of $3395.50, as interest thereon, and for the costs of said libellants in this court,
to be taxed.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that, for
the redovery of the damages decreed to libellants by the decree of the District Court and of this court, libellants have
execution against Tames H. Beatty, Henry Beatty, William
Beatty, and John D. Beatty, claimants, and said Frederick B.Sibley, their surviving surety on the bond or stipulation for
the appraised value of said steamer Manitoba and the freight
pending as aforesaid, in and for the amount of $28,694.95,
the appraised value thereof as aforesaid,. provided proceedings"
shall be had on the bond or stipulation given on appeal to this
,court, by said claimants of said steamer Manitoba, before recourse shall be had for collection on the.bond or stipulation
filed in the District Court for the appraised value of the
steamer Manitoba and her freight pending at the time of said
collision."
The claimants of the Manitoba have appealed to this court
from so much of the decree of the Circuit Court as decrees
the Manitoba to be in .fault for the collision, and from so
much of it as awards to the original libellants $32,090.45,
"without any deduction or allowance therefrom to these appellants on account of injuries occasioned by said -collision to
the said steamer Manitoba." The main question of law Aising on the record is as to the liability of the Manitoba.
The Circuit Court finds, as one of its conclusions of law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"that the Manitoba was in fault in ignoring the fact that the
Comet was approaching under a port wheel, and that the
courses of the two vessels were convergent, and involved, risk
of collision; and in failing to take proper precaution in time
to prevent the collision which afterwards occurred." The ex4pression "risk of collision," found in the third conclusion of

law, is not contained in the findings of fact proper; and it is,
therefore, insisted, on the part of the Manitoba, that it is not
found as a fact that. the courses of the two vessels involved
risk of. collision, by the movement of the Comet under a port
wheel, in her approach to the MNfanitoba, prior to the .time
when she put her wheel hard-a-port and crossed the bows of
the Manitoba. But we think this is not a correct view. The
findings of faci state, that, when the vessels were from one
and a half to two miles apart, the Manitoba had the Comet's
green light about three-quarters -of a poiht on her starboard
bow, and that the Manitoba then starboaded her wheel half
a point and continued her course ;ithout change until just
before the collision. This starboarding would bring the green
light of the Comet further on the starboard bow of the Manitoba; but, inthe meantime, the Comet ported her wheel half
a point; and it is not found that the green light of the Comet
continued to open wider to the view of the Manitoba. On the
contrary, the findings state, that the fact that the two vessels
were moving on nearly parallel, opposite, but slightly converging, lines, was apparent to the officers of both vessels for
some considerable time before the Comet ported her wheel,
and displayed her red light' to the Manitoba, and suddenly
sheered across the course of the Manitoba. -The findings also
state, that, from the relative courses of the two vessels, and
the bearing of their lights, there was manifest uncertainty as
to the intentions of the Comet, dnd that this called for the
closest watch, and the highest degree of diligence, on the part
of the, Manitoba, with reference to the movements of the
Comet, and that it behooved those in charge of her to be
prompt in availing themselves of any resource to avoid, not
only a collision, but the risk of such a catastrophe. The findings further state, that neither of the vessels sounded any

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of the Court.

signal of the whistle indicating the side it intended or desired
to take, ior did either of them reverse its engine or slacken its
speed until the collision was inevitable.; and that, if the requisite precautions, meaning the precautions just mentioned, had
been observed by both or either bf the vessels, the collision
would not have happened.
In addition to the facts thus found, the answer of the claimants of the Manitoba to the original libel charges as a fLult in
the Comet, that she did not stop and reverse, but kept up a
reckless speed in her approach to the Manitoba, "when there
was risk of collision." This allegation is repeated in the crosslibel of the owners of .the Manitoba. If there was risk of collision in the approach of the Comet towards the Manitoba
prior to the sudden sheer of the Comet, it was a risk affecting the Manitoba equally with the Comet, and imposing upon
her the same duties of slackening her speed, or, if necessary,
stopping and reversing, uider Rule 21 of § 4233 of the Revised
Statutes, which it imposed on the Comet.
On the facts, the Circuit Court found, as a conclusion of law,
and, We think, correctly, that the Manitoba was in fault in not
indicating her course by her whistle, and in not slowing up, and
in failing to reverse her engine until it was too late to accomplish anything thereby.
IThe facts in this case are very much like thdse in The Stanmare, 10 P. D. 135, where one of. two steam vessels, under like
circumstances with those of the Manitoba, was held in fault for
not stopping and reversing, although the collision was mainly
caused by the fault of the other vessel, which was also condemned.
A few words are necessary on the question as to whether, in
the amount decreed to the original libellants, by the Circuit
Court, allowance is made to the owners of the Manitoba on
account of the damages to her. The fincdings of fact state
that the owners of both vessels are entitled to the benefit of a
limitation of liability, and that the owners of the Comet are
entitled to recover from the owners of the Manitoba nd
their sureties on appeal, by reason of the proceedings for a
limitation of liabilty, only $28,694.95, and interest thereon

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

from March 7,1882,the date of the decree of the District
Court. The decree of the Circuit Court states that the value
of the Manitoba and her freight pending at the time of the
collision was duly appraised, in the proceedings for a limitation of liability, at the sum of $28,694.95, and that she was duly'
bonded for that sum, "which sum," the decree states 'is less
than one moiety of the damages occasioned by said collision."
Those damages, with interest at six per cent per annum from
the date of the collision to the date of the decree of the Circuit
Court, amounted to $93,288.16. One-half of that is $46,644.08.
,On the ground that the amount of the appraised value of
the Manitoba and her pending freight was "less than one
moiety of the damages occasioned" by the collision, the Cir-cuit Court adjudged that the owners of the Comet should
recover from the claimants of the Manitoba, and from their
surety on appeal, the Detroit Dry Dock Company, the sum of
$28,694.95, with interest thereoli from the 7th of M arch, 1882,
the date of the decree of the District Court, and, should
recover from the claimants of the Manitoba and the surviving
surety on the bond given in the District Court for the appraised valbe of the Manitoba and her pending freight, the sum
of $28,694.95, in case of non-payment thereof by the claimants
or the Detroit Dry Dock Company.
We had occasion to consider this subject at length in the
case of The _Nort Star, 106 U. S. 17,in which Mr. Justice
Bradley delivered the opinion of the court. In that case
* there was a collision between two steam vessels, the Ella
Warley and the North Star. The Circuit Court held both
vessels in fault, the Ella Warley being sunk and lost and the
-lorth
Star damaged. There was a libel in rem against the.
North Star and a libel in _prson m against the owners of the
Ella Warley. The Circuit Court rendered a decree in.favor
of the owners of the Ella Warley for so much of the damage
to her, it being greater than that sustained by the North Star,)
as exceeded one-half of the 'aggregate damage sustained by
both vessels. The owners of the Ella Warley had claimed
the benefit of a limitation of liability. On appeals to this court
by both parties, it was contended on behalf of the Ella Warley,

THE MANITOBA.
Opinion of the .Court.

that, as she was a total loss, the half of the damage to her
must be paid in fpll, without any deduction for the hAlfof
the damage sustained by the North Star. This court, after
a full examination of the subject, held that the proper rule
was, that, as each vessel was liable for one-half of the damage
done to both, if one suffered more than the other, the- difference should be equally divided, and the one which suffered
least should be decreed to pay one-half of such difference
to the one which suffered most, so as to equalize the burden.
In other words, as both parties were in fault, -the damage
done to both vessels should be added together in one sum and
equally divided, and a decree be pronounced'in favor of the
owners of the vessel which suffered most, against those of
the vessel which suffered least, for one-half of the differ:
ence between the amounts of their respective losses. The
House of Lords established the same rule in Stoomvaart
.Maatschappy3Tederland v. Penins. & Oriental &eam' Na'y.'
Co., '7 App. Cas., 795.
Applying this rule to the present case, the amount of the
aggregate damage to both vessels,, computed with interest to
the date of the decree of the Circuit Court, was $93,288.16;
being for the Comet, 885,818.16, and for the Manitoba,
$7470.00. One-half of this was $46,644.08. The loss of the'
owners of the Comet and of her cargo and pending freight
was greater than that of the owners of the Manitoba by the
sum of $78,318.16. One-half of that difference was $39,174.08.
That was the amount of the liability of the Manitoba to the
Comet, at the date of the decree of the Circuit Court, on a.
division of the damages, after a proper allowance to 'the
Manitoba for the damage to her, and without reference, to
the limitation of liability. As the amount of the bond of the
Manitoba, $28,694.95, with interest at six per cent per. annum,
from the date of the decree of the District Court. to the date
of the decree of the Circuit Court, was only $32,090:45, the
Manitoba had the proper limitation of liability allowed to her
by the decree of the Circuit Court, and was entitled to that
limitation.
S"Decree'affirmed

