OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

sion for a reargumont of the case, as we are all of opinion that
such an insurance would not be a breach of the covenant of
the insured not to insure their respective interests in the vessel,
"or any other insurable interest in said interest, during the
continuance of this policy," beyond the specified amounts.
Reheaing denied.

ADAMS v.COLLIER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE "UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 20, 1887. - Decided May 27, 1887.

When an assignee in bankruptcy files a petition in the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, under § 5063 of the Revised Statutes, showing a
dispute between him and others, as to property which has come into hispossession, or which is claimed by him, the court -all parties interested
appearing, and asking a determination of the dispute -has power to de.termine, at least, the question of title.
Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes, prescribing the limitation of two
years as to suits touching any property or rights of property traisferable
to or vested in an assignee in bankruptcy, applies as well to suits by
the assignee as to suits against him.
When an assignee files his petition in the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, showing a dispute between him and others as to property in his
possession as such assignee, and the parties sued appear and unite in the
prayer for th4 determination of the suit, and tle assignee, after the expiration of two years, without the consent of the defendants dismisses his
suit and files a bill in equity in the Circuit Court covering substantially
the same object, the latter suit is to be deemed a continuation of the
former for the purposes of limitation prescribed by. 5057 of the Revised
Statutes.
An assignee in bankruptcy has no standing-to impeach a voluntary conveyance made by the bankrupt to his children prior to.the adjudication in
bankruptcy, unless such conveyance was void because of fraud; and, in
Georgia, it is not fraudulent and void when the 'property conveyed
forms an inconsiderable part of the grantor's estate, and there is no
purpose to hinder and delay creditors. Only existing creditors have a
right to assail such a conveyance. The assignee, there being no fraud,
takes only such rights as the bankrupt had.

ADAMS v. COLLIER.
Statement of the Case.

ON the 25th day of September, 1863, Benjamin B. Barnes
made his deed conveying to certain of his children several
tracts of land in the counties of Crawford and Houston, in the
state of Georgia. The deed was witnessed by three persons one of whom was a justice of the peace -who certified that
it was signed, sealed, and delivered in their presence. -It was
duly recorded in Crawford County, where most of the lands
are, on the 26th of March, 1864; in Houston County, September 30, 1874.
The grantor, upon his own petition, was, March, 1874,
adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Georgia. His schedule of
real estate embraced these lands. He was in the actual -possession thereof at the time of filing his petition in bankruptcy.
In June, 1874, immediately after an assignment, in the usual
form, by the register of the estate of the bankrupt, his assignee in bankruptcy went into possession of the lands, and
thereafter took to himself, as such assignee, the rents and
profits thereof.
On the 19th of January, 1876, the assignee filed his petition
in the District Court, in bankruptcy, setting forth the above
facts, and stating that the title to the lands was in dispute
between him and the grantees in the deed of September 25,
1863. The petition alleged that the deed was wholly voluntary, and that, from its date to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, the grantor was in the continuous,
uninterrupted possession of the lands, using and controlling
the same as his pr'operty, and enjoying the rents, issues, and
profits thereof. The prayer of the assignee was for notice to
the claimants as required by § 5063 of the Revised Statutes,
and for a sale of the lands, the proceeds to be l4eld to answer
any suit which might be instituted by the claimants.
That section of the Revised Statutes provides,: "Whenever
it appears to the satisfaction of the court that the title to any.
portion of the estate, real or personal, which has come into
possession of the assignee, or which is claimed by.him, is in
dispute, the court may, upon the petition of the assignee, and'
after such notice to the claimant, his agent or attorney, as the

OCTOBER TERNI, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

court shall deem reasonable, order it to be sold, under the
direction of the assignee, who shall hold the funds received in
place of the estate disposed of; and the proceeds of the sale
shall be considered the measure of the value of the property
in any suit or controversy between the parties in any court.
But this provision shall not prevent the recovery of the property from the possession of the assignee by any proper action,
commenced at any time before the court orders the sale."
The claimants appeared and answered the petition. They'
asserted title to the property under the deed of 1863, claiming: 1. That the grantor made the deed to his children in
good faith, by way of advancement, and without any intent
to delay or defraud his creditors, these lands constituting, at
the time, an inconsiderable part of his estate, and his other
property being largely more than was necessary to meet any
indebtedness he then or thereafter had; 2. That the deed was
delivered to the grantees by the grantor at or about the time
of itsexecution ; 3. That the grantor's possession, at any time
thereafter, of the lands, was held for the grantees; 4. That
the grantor was entirely solvent when adjudged a bankrupt,
and was induced to go into bankruptcy by the fraudulent conduct of others, who, taking advantage of his feeble health, persuaded him into taking that step, and to include these lands
in his schedule of real estate. They prayed that the assignee
be required to account to them for the rents and profits
received by him.
Upon the issues thus made the parties went into proofs, in
accordance with the rules of the court., But, for reasons not
disclosed by the record, the assignee, by leave of the court,
and without notice to the defendants, withdrew his petition
"without prejudice to either party or to any other proceeding
he may be advised to institute touching the subject-matter of
said petition."
In a few days thereafter, to wit, on December 1, 1879, the
defendants presented a petition to the District Court, sitting
in bankruptcy, reciting the foregoing facts, and praying that
the assignee be required to surrender the possession of the
premises to them, and account for rents and profits received

ADAMS v. COLLIER.
Statement of the Case.

by him. To this petition the assignee demurred for want of
jurisdiction in the District Court to give the relief asked. No
further steps seem to have been taken in that proceeding.
The present suit was commenced by the assignee in the Circuit Court on the 16th day of December, 1879. Its object was
to obtain a decree requiring the surrender by the defendants
of the title deed for these lands, and ordering their sale. The
bill set out, substantially, the same facts as those alleged in
the petition filed by the assignee in the District Court. The
relief asked was based upon the following grounds: 1. That
these lands were the property of the b~akrupt at the time of
the adjudication in bankruptcy; 2. That the deed of 1863 was
never delivered by the grantor to the defendants, or to any of
them, in the presence of the subscribing witnesses, nor "until
he became so. greatly involved that he feared his creditors
could reach said lands;" 3. That the deed was wholly voluntary; 4. That if the- defendants 6ver had a right to recover
the lands from the assignee, their cause of action was barred
by § 5057 of the Revised Statutes, which provides: "No
suit, either at law or in equity, shall be maintainable in any
court between an assignee in bankruptcy and' a person claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights of
property traisferable to or vested in such assignee, unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued for or against such assignee. And this provision shall not in any case waive a right of action barred at the
time when an assignee is appointed;" 5. That the deed held
by the defendants created a cloud upon the title of the
assignee, and interfered with his sale of the lands for an adequate price.
The defendants in their answer resisted the claim of the assignee upon the same grounds relied upon in the original proceeding in the District Court. They also filed their cross-bill,
seeking a decree for the surrender of the lands to them, and
-an accounting by the assignee in respect to the rents by him
received.
'The Circuit Court, by its final decree, directed the surrender
of the deed for cancellation, declared it to be tull and void,
VOL. cxxi-25

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Appellee.

dismissed the cross-bill, and ordered the assignee, under the
direction of the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, to sell
the lands and distribute the proceeds.
Xi. IT/omas B. Gresham for appellants.
filed a brief for same.

XA. 1R. F. Lyon

MXr. N J. Hammond for appellee.
As to statute of limitations, § 5057, Rev. Stat., see -Yorton
v. de la Villebeuve, 1 Woods, 163; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.
342; Conant's Case, 5 Blatchford, 51. The court cannot
make exceptions to the statute. Friedlander & Girson, 9
Bankr. :Reg. 331; .Afclver v. Ragan, 2 Wheat. 25; Bank of
Aalama v. -Dalton,9 Wheat. 522, 528, 529: Bacon v. Howdrd, 20 How. 22; Beaubien v. Beaubien, 23 How. 190, 208.
The Bankrupt Court had no jurisdiction to settle this controversy upon petition or by rule against either party. A bill in
equity was needed. Smith v. Mason, 141 Wall. 419; .Marshall
v. Knox, 16 Wall. 551; Rogers v. Vinsor, 6 Bankr. Reg. 246.
If the petitions were without the jurisdiction, they cannot avail
to avoid the statute of limitations. Williamson v. Wardlaw,,
46 Geo. 126; Gray v. Hodge, 50 Geo. 262; Edwards v. Ross,
58 Geo. 147; Henderson v. Griffln, 5 Pet. 151. Nor will this
court treat this bill as but a continuation of the former proceedings. Clark v. Hackett, 1 Clifford, 269, 282. The statute
bars alike at .law and in equity. Bailey v. TVeir, 12 Bankr.
Reg. 24; Comegys v. .d Cord, 11 Ala. 932.
The dismissal of the petition, &c., "without prejudice,"
cannot help appellants. W~alden v. Bodley, 14 Pet. 156, 161;
-Hughesv. United States, 4 Wall. 232; -Durantv. Essex Co., 'r
Wall. 107 ; Creighton v. .Kehr, 20 Wall. 8, 12.
The suggestion of fraud, to wit, that to allow this plea of
statute of limitations to prevail would be to allow, assignee to
practise a fraud, cannot avail as an exception to the statute.
The assignee is charged with no wrong or deceit. Beaubien
v. Beaubien, 23 How. 190, 208; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.
342; Gifford v. He ms, 98U. S. 248.

ADAMS v. COLLIER.
Argument for Appellee.

The defendants did not set up the statute of limitations by
demurrer, plea, or answer. Story's Eq. P1. §§ 503, 506, 748,
751, 747-749.
Contracts to pay for slaves in Georgia in 1860 are valid and
may yet be enforced. White v. Hart, 13 Wall. 646; Boyce v.
Tabb, 18 Wall 546.
As to fraud; the Code of Georgia of 1867, in force since
1st January, 1863, declared: "The following acts by debtors
shall be fraudulent in law against creditors, and as to them,
null ard void, viz.," . .,
(1) "Assignments, where any
trust or benefit is reserved to the assignor."
(2)

"Every -conveyance of real or personal estate by writing or
otherwise ..

.

. had or made with intention to delay or

defraud creditors, and such intention known to the party
taking; a bonaftde transaction on a valuable consideration and
without notice or grounds for reasonable suspicion shall be
valid." (3) "Every voluntary deed or conveyance not for a
valuable consideration made by a debtor insolvent at the time
of such conveyance." Code of 1867, § 1942, part 2, or § 1952
of Code of 1863, or § 1952 of Code of 1882. Section 2620,
Code of 1867, declared "an insolvent person cannot make a
valid gift to the injury of his existing creditors."
That was § 2619 .of Code of 1863, and is § 2662 of Code of
1882. They are but codifications of Supreme Court decisions in
Georgia, which were codified under act of 9th December, 1858.
If the purpose.be to hinder or delay creditors, a conveyance is
void. Peck v. Land,2 Geo. 1 [S. C. 46 Am. Dec. 368]. Settlement on wife and children pending suit to avoid the judgment,
is void without notice to grantees. Wise v. Afoore, 31 Geo. 148.
Possession, in such case, unexplained, is evidence of fraud.
Fleming v. Townsend, 6 Geo. 103 [S.. C.- 50 Am. Dec. 318];
Carter v. Stanf-eld, 8 Geo. 49; Colquitt v. Ikornas, 8 Geo.
258; Perkins v. Patten, 10 Geo. 241; Scott v. WinsAVp, 20
Geo. 429. In this court, Callan v. Statham, 23 How. 477;
Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 78.
"Insolvent" defined. Toof v. Martin, 13 Wall. 47; Buchanan, v. Smith, 16 Wall. 277; Dutcher v. Wright, 94 U. S.
557. "Evidence of fraud."' Possession after deed made.
Peck v. Land, 2 Geo. 1 [S. C 46 Am. Dec. 368].

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

When a voluntary deed is void as to existing creditors, see
Clayton v. Brown, 17 Geo. 217, 222, and again in 30 Geo. 490,
495. Settlement on wife and children. Weed v. Davis, 25
Geo. 684, declares such gifts presumptively fraudulent as
against existing creditors, requring to be rebutted by evidence. Such transactions "to the prejudice of the creditors
are to be scanned closely, and their bonafides must be clearly
established." Booher v. Worrill, 57 Geo. 235. So, "if creditors are likely to suffer." Tkonmpson v. Feagin, 60 Geo. 82.
The cases in the Supreme Court of the United States on
th!is subject are: Sexeton v. WTMeaton, 8 Wall. 229; finde v.
Longworth, 11 Wheat. 199. There it was held in 1S26, "A
voluntary deed is void as to antecedent, but not as to subsequent creditors," under 13 Eliz. Venable v. Bak? of the
United States, 2 Pet. 107, 120, last paragraph. Parish v.
.farpliree, 13 How. 92, 99, 100, (1851); Iludgins v. Zemnp, 20
How. 45, 52, (1857); l1arner v. Yorton., 20 How. 448, (1857)';
Callan v. Stathaam, 23 IIow. 477, (1859). Here there was no
sworn answer. 1iekhr v. Smith, 20 Wall. 31, (1873); Lloyd v.
Fdton,91 LT. S.479, 4 5, (1875) ; Smith v. T'odges, 92 U. S.183,
(1875). See also Cat/wart v. Rodnson, 5 Pet. 264, 280;
IlTinhde v. Ion gwort4, 11 Wheat., supra, was adopted as the
rule in Georgia in 1858 in Weed v. Davis, 25 Geo. (S. This
decision of 1Feed v.. Davis controls here. Olcoti v. Bynimn, 17
Wall. 44, and Lloyd v. Fulton, 91 U. S.479, 485.
AIfI. JUSTICE IARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The lands conveyed by Barnes to his children having come
to the possession of, and being claimed by, his assignee, and
the title thereto being in dispute, the petition filed by the
latter in the District Court was authorized by § 5063 of the
Revised Statutes. Under the pleadings in that suit -all the
parties therein having appeared, qsserted their respective
claims to the lands, and sought a determination of the dispute
between them -it was competent for the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, to have determined, at least, the question of

ADAMS v. COLLIER.
I

Opinion of the Court.

title. Had that court adjudged that the lands belonged to the
grantor in the deed of 1863 at the time he was adjudged a
bankrupt, that judgment, until reversed or modified, would
have been a bar to any new action by the defendants for the
recovery of the property.
But we have seen that the assignee, after the expiration of
several years, and without notice to the defendants, withdrew
his cause from the District Court, and instituted this suit in
the Circuit Court, substantially for the same relief as that
asked in his petition in the District Court; using, upon the
hearing of this suit, the evidence taken in his original suit.
Evidently- he supposed that, in a new suit in the Circuit Court,
the limitation of two years prescribed by § 5057 of the Revised
Statutes would defeat any claim to the lands which the defendants might assert. But that section, if applicable at all to such
a case as this, is applicable to the plaintiff as well as to the
defendants. If the assignee claims that the question of title
could only be determined in a suit in equity in the Circuit
Court, it might well be said that, not having himself instituted
suit in the proper court against the holders of the legal title,
within two years from the time the cause of action accrued to
him, he could not maintain the present suit. But we .are of
opinion that the suit in the District Court and the present suit,
having substantially the same object, are to be regarded, for
the purposes of the limitation prescribed by § 5057, as the
same suit, the latter being, in effect, a continuation of the
former. It results that the question between the assignee and
the grantees in the deed of 1863, as to the title to the lands in
dispute, was raised in apt time. During the whole period,
from the commencement of the suit in the District Court until
the institution of the present suit, the defendants have asserted
their ownership of these lands, denying that they constituted
a part of the bankrupt's estate. They met the issue tendered
by the assignee in the forum selected by himself. To permit
him to abandon that forum without their knbwledge or consent, and --incomputing the time fixed for bringing actions,
by or against assignees, touching property claimed adversely
to him - to exclude the period between the institution of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

suit in the District Court and the commencement of this suit,
would make the statute an instrument of fraud. It cannot
receive that construction.
Upon the merits of the case we have no serious difficulty.
The evidence satisfies us that the conveyance of 1863 was not
made with any intent to hinder or defraud the creditors of the
grantor. The latter was, at that time, in such condition, as to
property, that he could, without injustice to creditors, make a
gift of these land s to his children. The transaction was in good
faith, and was not a mere device to hinder and defraud creditors. The deed was promptly delivered by the grantor to one
for all of the grantees. The possession of the lands by the
father, at times, subsequent to the execution and delivery of
the deed, and his control of them apparently for his own benefit, is satisfactorily explained by witnesses. lIlis possession,
after the deed of 1863, was not intended to be, and was not,
in fact, adverse to his grantees. According to the weight of
evidence he held possession under and for his children. The
only fact in the case which creates doubt on this point is, that
he improperly included these lands in his schedule of the real
estate of which he was in possession when he filed his petition
in bankruptcy. But that circumstance, even if not satisfactorily explained, cannot legally affect the rights of his grantees,
and is only important as bearing somewhat on his credibility as a witness, .testifying that he delivered the deed imnmediately upon its execution, and that his pbssession, at a later
period, was for his children. Geo. Code, 1867, in force January 1, 1863, §§ 1942, 2620; Clayton v. Brown, 17 Geo. 21T;
222; Clayton v. Brown, 30 Gee. 490, 491, 495; Weed v. Davis,
25 Geo. 684; Vallace v. _enfleld, 106 U. S. 260, 262; Jay v.
Welchel, Supreme Court of Georgia, April 4, 1887.
There is still another view of the case. If the grantor was
insolvent when be made the conveyance of 1863; or, if the
lands so conveyed constituted more, in value, of his estate than
he could rightfully withdraw from the reach of creditors and
give to his children; in either case, the assignee in bankruptcy
-there being no fraud on the part of the grantor - has no
.standing to impeach the conveyance. The deed ws good as

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Statement of the Case.°

between the grantor and his children; and, in the absence of
fraud, could not be questioned by the assignee, who took only
such rights as the bankrupt had. Yeatman v. Savings Inst.,
95 U. S. 764, 766; Stewart v. Platt, 101 U. S. 731, 738; Hauselt v. Harrison,105. IT.S. 4,01, 406; iRev. Stat. § 5046. It
could only be avoided by creditors who were such at the date
of the conveyance. Warren v. Moody, ante, 132.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the assignee in
bankruptcy of Barnes has no valid claim to said land-, or any
of them; and that the deed of 1863 was not void as between
him and the grantees therein. The Circuit Court erred in
declaring it to be void, and in ordering the sale of the lands,
under the direction of the District Court, as part of the bankrupt's estate.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to set aside the entire decree of .Nfovemler 25, 1882,
and for such further proceedings a&are consistent with
this opinion.

G00DLETT ,v.LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE
RAILROAD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT coUmT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.flDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 4, 1887. -Decided May 27, i837.
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company is a corporation of Kentucky, and not of Tennessee, having from the latter state only a license
'to construct a railroad within its limits; between certain points, and to
exert there some of its corporate powers.
The rule announced in Phenif Insurance Company v. Doster, 106 U. S. 32,
and in Randall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 111 U. S. 482, as to when
a case may be withdrawn from a jury by a peremptory instruction, reaffirmed.

Tmis action was brought in the Circuit Court of Williamson
County, Tennessee, by Simon Callahan, to recover damages
for personal injuries sustained by him while in. the discharge

