OCTOBER TER11, 1,86.
Statement of the Case.

WARREN v. MLOODY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE

UIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

Submitted April 22, 1887. -Decided

May 23, 1887.

K., owning property of the value of $91,400, and owing individually $3400 of
debts, aud about e3000 more as a member of a lirm, conveyed land in
Alabama, to his daughter, in 1866, as an advancement on her marriage.
In 1876, K. was adjudged a bankrupt. His assignee in bankruptcy sued
the daughter in equity, to set aside the deed of the land, alleging in the
bill that the deed, being voluntary, was void under the laws of Alabama.
No fraud as to creditors was alleged: Hteld, that the assignee did not
represent the prior creditors, because the land was not conveyed in fraud
of creditors, within the meaning of § 14 of the Bankruptcy Act of
March 2, 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 522, now §§ 5046 and 5047 of the .Re.
vised Statutes.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed in the District Court of the
United States for the ]iddle District of Alabama, on the 25th.
of July, 1 78, by Frank S. Moody and Richard C. McLester, as
assignees in bankruptcy of Baugh, Kennedy & Co. and John
S. Kennedy, against John S. Kennedy and his wife, Mary
E. Kennedy, and Edward Warren and his wife, Vernon L.
Warren. The bill alleged, that, on the 7th of July, 1876, the
defendant John S. Kennedy, as one of the partners in the late
firm of. Baugh, Kennedy & Co., and as an individual, was
adjudged a bankrupt by the said District Court, on a petition
filed by that firm and each of its individual members; that the
plaintiffs were appointed, on July 28, 1876, assignees in bankruptcy of the, estate, rights and credits of the firm, and of each
of its individual members, including the defendant Kennedy;
that they received the usual assignment from the register in
bankruptcy, on the 11th of August, 1876; that, on the 31st of
December, 1866, Kennedy and his vife were seized and
possessed of a tract of land in Sumter County, Alabama, containing 1056 acres; that, on that day, without any other consideration than that of natural love and affection, they undertook to convey the land to their daughter, the defendant Ver.

WARREN v. MOODY.
Statement of the Case.

non L. Warren, but the deed was not acknowledged by the
grantors until the 7th of October, 1867, and was not recoyded
until the 29th of March, 1872; that, as the deed had no attesting witnesses, it did not become operative as a deed of conveyance, as against existing creditors, for any purpose, until the
date of its recording, or at least until it was acknowledged;
that none of the defendants have been in the actual possession
of the land since the date of the deed; that, at the time the
deed was executed, Kennedy owed six debts, which are specified in -detail in the bill, and amount in the aggregate to
$6-42.62, four of them, amounting to $4371.92, having been
proved in bankruptcy, two of those proved having been due to
two minors, wards of Kennedy, named Harrison, and one of
those not proved having been due to a Mrs. Herbert, and three
of the debts having been due by the said firm, of which he
was a member.
The bill alleged that the said deed, being wholly voluntary,
was, under the laws of Alamaba, absolutely void, as against
those debts and as against the plaintiffs, who, as such assignees,
represented those debts for the purposes of this suit. The bill
prayed that the deed might lie declared null and void and be
set aside and vacated, and that the -land might be sold by the
plaintiffs, and its proceeds be administered by them as part Qf
the estate of Kennedy in bankruptcy.
The deed, a copy of which was annexed to the bill, set forth
that it was made "in consideration of the love and affection
we bear to our daughter, Vernon L. Warren, and the sum of
ten dollars." It conveyed the land to her and to her heirs
and assigns forever, and contained a convenant ofI warranty
and this clause: "The foregoing conveyance is intended as an
advancement to our said daughter."
The answer of Kennedy and his wife averred that love and
affection for their daughter was part of the -consideration for^
the conveyance, and that the sum of ten dollars was also paid
as part of the consideration, as stated in the deed; that the
defendant Warren and his wife were married on the 20th of
December, 1866; that the deed was executed and delivered to
the daughter on the day it bears date; that the daughter and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

her husband took immediate and actual possession of the land;
that the husband rented the land for the year beginning January 1, 1867; that he had had the sole contiol and management of the land, as agent and husband of his wife, paying
taxes thereon, directing and superintending the repairs, and
receiving the entire rent thereof for his wife, from the date of
the deed to the day of making the answer, (April 21st, 1879,)
and that Warren and his wife were still in the actual possession
of the land. The answer averred, that all the debts of any moment which Kennedy owed at the date of the deed, on his own
individuial account, being the debts to the two minors, and the
debt to Mrs. Herbert, amounted to nearly $3400; that the same
debts were substantially all the debts he owed at the date of
his bankruptcy, on his own private account; and that, as a
member of the old firm of Baugh, Kennedy & Co., he owed,
at the time of making the deed and at the date of his bankruptcy, jointly with his partners, debts amounting to about
$3071.
The answer averred that the deed was not made with the
intent to hinder, delay or defraud the creditors named in the
bill, or any other creditors, or that it necessarily did so; that,
at the time of making the cofnveyance, Kennedy and his wife
were in prosperous circumstances, and possessed of ample
means to pay all debts, and were able to withdraw the value
of their donation to their daughter from their estate without
the least hazard to their creditors; that they owed, in their
individual capacity, at that time, very little money, the debts
above named' in the answer, amounting to nearly $3400, being
their chief and almost their only individual debts; that.at the
time of making the deed, Kennedy owned, in his own right,
free. from all liens or incumbrances, real and personal property
and choses in action, a schedule of which was annexed to the
answer, amounting in value at that date to $91,400; that he
was never sued for an individual debt, and never gave any
incumbrances on his property, until some twelve months before his failure; and that he would long since have paid the
three individual debts de to the minors and Mrs. Herbert,
but the last-named debt was so fixed by will that Mrs. Her-

WARREN v. MOODY.
Statement of the Case.

bert could only use the interest during her life, and, at her
death, without heirs, she being childless, the property was to
go back to other partiesi and the two minors were under age
until three or four years before the filing of the answer, and
could not lawfully reqeive the money.
The answer of the defendants Warren and wife adopted,
as their answer, the answer of Kennedy and his wife, and
pleaded the facts set forth in the latter answer, as a bar to the
plaintiff's suit. There was'a replication to these answer and
three witnesses were examined on behalf of the plaintiffs.
The only point of any materiality in their testimony was as to
the value of the property in December, 1866, which one of
them put at six dollars an acre, another at from eight to ten
dollars an acre, and the third knew nothing about.
In June, 1880, the solicitors for the plaintiffs signed a stipulation, entitled in the suit, admitting "that the facts set forth.
in the answers were substantially true, except so far as controverted by the depositions and other evidence in the cause."
The case was brought to a hearing on the pleadings and the
three depositions, the deed to Mrs. Warren, the stipulation, and
the schedule to the answers of the defendants, and the District
Court, on the 9th of July, 1880, made a decree, setting aside
the deed and directing that the land covered by it be sold by
the plaintiffs as assignees in bankruptcy, and that the net proceeds of the sale be held by the assignees subject to distribution among the creditors of the bankrupt under the orders
and directions of the District Court, according to the respective rights and priorities of such creditors and of the defendants Warren And his wife. -The decree also referred it to a
master to ascertain and report the amounts due from Kennedy
on the several demands set forth iii the bill, and which should,
up to the time of holding the reference, have been proved.
against the estate of Kennedy in bankruptcy. The defendants
Warren and wife appealed from that decree to the Circuit
Court, which in December, 1881, affirmed the decree Pf the
District Court, from which latter decree Warren and his wife
appealed to this court.
.Mr.John T. .Xorganm for appellants.

OCTOBER TERTIE,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Krt. H. L. Woods and 2r. Tiiam S. Tkorrington for appellees.
This conveyance was voluntary, and without adequate
consideration. The debt of the attacking creditor was a liability against the debtor when the deed was made. These
two conditions coexisting, the deed is void under the laws of
Alabama. Cato v. Easley, 2 Stewart (Ala.) 214; Miller v.
Thompson, 3 Porter (Ala.) 196; Moore v. Spence, 6 Ala. 506;
Yhomas-v. Do Graftenreid,17 Ala. 602; -Footev. Cobb, 18 Ala.
585; Gannard v. Fs/a8va, 20 Ala. 732; Stiles v. Lighifoot, 26
Ala. 443; AcAnally v. O'HVeal, 56 Ala. 299; Hubbard v.
Allen, 59 Ala. 283; Anderson v. Anderson, 64 Ala. 403. The
case last cited contains a very full and clear exposition of
the law of Alabama on this subject. These authorities leave
no room for doubt as to the settled law of Alabama on this
subject; and the law of Alabama governs in this case.
,There are two reasons why this court will follow the Alabama decisions on this subject. The first is, that these decisions are a construction of a state statute, to wit: § 2124, Code
of Alabama; and the Federal courts will adopt the construction given to a state statute by the highest court of the
state. Prattv. GOrtis, 2 Lowell, 87; S. C. 6 Bank IReg., 139;
Thateher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119; Polks' Lessee v. Wendall,
9 Cranch, 87; _E mendof v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152. In the
next place the decisions of Alabama on this subject have become a rule of property in that state, and in sucl cases the
Federal courts, sitting there, will apply the rule as though
they were .state courts. Lloyd v. Fulton, 91 U. S. 479, 485;
Christy v. Pridgeon,4 Wall. 196.
MRn. JUsTIcE BLATCnTOnD, after stating the case as reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be noticed that the bill does not attack the deed on
the ground of fraud. it dces not allege that it was made
with any intent to delay, hinder, or defraud the creditors
named in the bill, or any other creditors of Kennedy. It
does not allege that there are any other creditors than those

WARREN v. MOODY.
Opinion of the Court.

named in the bill, or any creditors who became such after
the making of the deed. The sole ground on which it
proceeds is, that the deed was a voluntary deed, and is void
as against the persons who were creditors of Kennedy prior
to the making of the deed. It claims that the plaintiffs, as
assignees in bankruptcy, represent the debts of those creditors,
for the purposes of the suit.
The alleged right of action of the plaintiffs is asserted
under § 14 of the Bankruptcy Act of TM[arch 2, 18(6, c. 176,
14 Stat. 522, which provides, that "all the property conveyed by the bankrupt in fraud of his creditors" "shall, in
virtue of the adjudication of bankruptcy and the appointment of his assignee, be at once vested in such assignee, and
he may sue for and recover the said estate, debts, and effects."
This provision is also found in §§ 506 and 5047 of the Revised Statutes.
The deed in question was a valid instrument between the
grantors and the grantees. The stipulation on which the case
was heard, containing an admission "that the facts set forth
in the answers are substantially true, except so far as controverted by the. depositions and other evidence in the cause,"
makes the allegations of fact contained in the answer of Kennedy and his wife evidence in the cause. When the deed was
made, Kennedy was, as the answer alleges, in prosperous circumstances, and possessed of ample means to pay all debts,
and was able to withdraw the value of the donation to his
daughter from his estate without the least hazard to his creditors, and the amount of his individual debts was very small
as compared with the amount of his property. The deed to
the daughter being honest in fact and in intent, and being, on
the evidence, a proper provision for her, as an advancement on
the occasion of her marriage, and being valid as between l&r
parents and herself, and no fraud in fact, or intent to commit
a fraud, or to hinder or delay creditors, being alleged in the
bill, the case is not one in which these plaintiffs can set aside
the deed, as being a deed of "property conveyed by the :bankrupt in fraud of his creditors," even though the conveyance
may have been invalid, under the statute of Alabama, as

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Syllabus.

against the creditors named in the bill, because it was a voluntary conveyance. These creditors, whatever remedies they
may have had to collect their debts, are not represented by
the plaintiffs, as assignees in bankruptcy, for the purposes of
this suit, on the facts developed.
The case of Pratt v. Curtis, 2 Lowell, 81, cited by the
plaintiffs, was a case of two bills in equity by the assignee of
a bankrupt to set aside conveyances of land made by the
bankrupt, one being a voluntary deed of settlement for the
benefit of his children, and the other being a like deed for the
benefit of his wife. Each bill alleged that, at the time of the
settlement, the bankrupt was indebted to persons who were
still his creditors, and was embarrassed in his circumstances,
and that the deed was made with intent to delay and defraud
his creditors. On demurrer, the bill was sustained, on the
view that the assignee in bankruptcy, and he only, had the
right to impeach the deeds, in the interest of creditors. That
decision, based on a case of intent to delay and defraud creditors, on the part of a person embarrassed in his circumstances,-

has no application to the present case.
The decreeof the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to it, with a direction to dismiss the biM, with
costs to the defendants in the Circuit Court and in the
-DistrictCourt.

DAVIS v. PATRIOK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

Argued April 14,1887.-Decided May 23,1887.
Where a bill of exceptions Is signed after the beginning of the term of this
court when the writ of error is returnable, and, during a term of the. Circuit Court succeeding that at which the case was tried, but was seasonably submitted to the judge for signature, and the delay was caused by
the judge and not by the plaintiff In error, the bill of exceptions will not
be stricken out.

