TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Names of Counsel.

if the exemption is deemed a "particular favor," in respect of
commerce and navigation, within the first article of that treaty,
it can only be claimed by Denmark upon like compensation to
the United States. It does not appear that Denmark has ever
9bjected to the imposition of duties upon goods from her
dominions imported into the United States, because of the exemption from duty of similar goods imported frdm the
Hawaiian Islands, such exemption being in consideration- of
reciprocal concessions, which she has never proposed to make.
Our conclusion is, that the treaty with Denmark does not
bind the United States to extend to that country, without
compensation, privileges which they have conceded to the
Hawaiian Islands in exchange for valuable concessions. On
the contrary, the 'treaty provides that like compensation shall
be given for such special favors. When such "compensation is
made it will be time to consider whether sugar from her
dominions shall be admitted free from duty.
ATdgmwnt ap-med.
TOPIIFF V. TOPLIFF.
APrEA-1

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN~ITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHEMN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued May 3, 4,188.-Dectded May 23,1887.

When the language of a contract is ambiguous, the practical interpretation
of it by the parties is entitled to great, if not controlling influence.
In this case the court holds that a contract made by the parties in 1870 is
still in force, and that under its terms the appellee is entitled to make
use of the combinations covered by the patent to John A. Topliff, one of
the appellants, of August 24, 1875, without the payment of royalty, and
without being charged with liability as an infringer.

BiL in equity to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainants
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
21&.

enry . Shem'zn and i&. T. Bakewell for appellants.

Xr. 2f. D.
A Legget and Xfr. T. F. Boynton for appellee.
Mr. S. Burke was with them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

,122

Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JusTicE

'ATTHEWS delivered the opinion of ,the court.

The appellants, complainants below, on the 28th February, 1880, filed their bill in equity to restrain the alleged in-'
fringement by the defendant of letters-patent No. 166,950,.
granted August 24, 1875, to John A. Topliff, for a new and
useful improvement in bow-sockets for buggy-tops.' As stated
in the specification, "This invention has relation to. bowsockets for buggy-tops, and consists in placing a filling of wood
in the tubes of the bow-sockets to strengthen the same; also
in extending the strip of steel which is inserted in the wood
filling far enough down to enable it to be welded or otherwise
fastened to the slat-iron."
Among. other grounds of defence, the defendant in his answer sets out the followiulg: He alleges that some time prior
to the 27th day of December, 1870, he 'invented a new and
useful invention denominated an improvement in carriagebows, consisting in the main in constructing the straight part
of carriage-bows out of tapering tubes made. of sheet-iron
with soldered seams and lower ends flattened, forming a part
of the hinge, in conjunction with the bows made of wood,
shaped and fitted into the upper ends of the tubes; that this
invention was secured to him by letters-patent dated December 27, 1870, No. 110,513; that this patent was reissued as reissued letters patent No. 9026, January 6, 1880; and that he
obtained another patent, No. 114,885, dated]May 16, 1871, for
a new and improved carriage-bow cover and slat-iron combined. That soon after he invented his first improvement in
carriage-bows, for which he obtained the patent dated December 27, 1870, and pending the application therefor, a contract in
writing was entered into on or about the 1st day of September,
1870, between himself and the complainants, as follows:

"This agreement, made and concluded this day of
A.D. 1870, "by and between Isaac N. Topliff, of the
first part, and John A. Topliff and George H. Ely, of the
second part, witnesseth: 1st. The said party of the first part is
the sole owner of a certain patent for tubular iron bows used

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

in manufacturing carriage and buggy tops, which patent was
issued the day of, .D. -.
Now, inconsideration of
the agreements of said party of the second part to be by them
performed, the said party of the fhrst part hereby gives,
grants, sells and conveys to the said party of the second part,
the exclusive right of manufacturing and of selling the abovementioned article throughout the United States for,five years
from the date of this agreement; it being understood that, at
the expiration of five years, the said party of the first part
shall have the right to have the above-named articles nanufactured at not more than two other places, to be sold at
prices adopted by said party of the second part, but in all
other respects the rights and privileges -of the said party of
the second part shall continue during the entire life of the
patent.
"2. The parties mutually agree that they will share the expense of maintaining the right of the patent against infringements and other patents in the following proportion: The
first party to pay one-third and the second party to pay twothirds. It is also further agreed that any improvement made
on these articles by either party shl be for the mutual benefit
of the parties.
"3. In consideration of the above grant, the said party of the
second part hereby agrees to pay to the said party of first part
fifteen per cent on the wholesale selling prices of above-named
articles as royalty on all sold by them, it being understood that
these prices shall at all times be settled by mutual agreement
between both parties. The said party of the second part
further agree that they will advertise thoroughly the above-'
named article in such ways as may seem best, and do all in
their power to introduce and extend the sale of said articles.
They also agree that they will make them of quality and fin-.
ish to meet the approbation of said party of the first part.
"In witness whereof the parties have set their hands and.
seals to duplic~tes the day and year first above wrikten.
"I.
N. Toi-Lu.
• [sEAL.]
"J. A.

TOPLIFF.

"GEoRGE

H.

ELY.,

[SEAT.]
[sEAL.]"

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

That, in pursuance of the. agreement, the complainants en,
tered upon the manufacture and sale of carriage-bows, the
defendant being in their employment as travelling salesman,
and as such devoted his time largely to the introduction and
sale of said carriage-bows throughout the United States, and
also his time, thought, and attention to makingiimprovements
therein, knowledge of which was communicated by him to the
complainants from time to time. That some of these improvements made by him were covered by the patent bearing date
M[ay 16, 1871. That the business was carried on by the complainants in this way under said contract for more than eight
years to their 'great gain and profit.
The defendant further alleges, that "after the issuing to
him of the last-mentioned lefters-patent, he -made some slight
changes and improvements in the manufacture of carriagebows, and communicated the same to said complainants, especially to said John, and requested that, in the manufacture of
carriage-bows under his patent aforesaid, that the said complainants should coiistruct and manufacture them in accordance with his said suggestions and improvements, which
improvements were communicated by this defendant to' the
said. complainants on or about the first day of June, 1873.
That thereupon his said suggestion and invention was adopted
by the said complainants in the manufacture 6f carriage-bows
by the said complainants; and afterwards the said John A.
Topliff, for the purpose ol securing the same to the complainants and to this defendant for their mutual use and benefit, in
accordan~e with the terms of said contract, made application
for a patent thereon, and secured the alleged patent in the
complainants' bill of complaint described. And this defendant alleges and says, that, if in reality there is anything new
or useful embraced in the said letters-patent, issued to the said
John A. Topliff, that he was and is the true inventor and
rightful owner thereof, and that the said John A. Topliff was
not and is not the true and original inventor and discoverer
thereof. And this defendant alleges, that, whether said patent, so issued in the name of said complainants, is. or is not
valid, that he, by the terms of his said contract entered into

. TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

with said complainants, is entitled to use the same to the
same extent that the complainants are entitled to use the same.
That, by the terms of said contract, such right is expressly
granted and conveyed to him, and that the complainants have
so interpreted said contract, and have had upon their part the
free use and benefit of the invention, discovery, and improvement made by this defendant and secured to him by letterspatelit dated May 16, 1871, as aforesaid, and other considerations therefor, as agreed; and that, relying upon said contract,
he communicated to the said complainants the information
and instructions in regard to manufacturing under his said patents and other improvements above named, upon which the
said John A. Topliff made the application and secured to the
said complainants the letters-patent said to be owned by them.
And this defendant denies that he has made other use of the
letters-patent issued to the complainants than such as he was
authorized to make by the terms of the contract aforesaid ben:
tween the complainants and himself."
The defendant further says, that he has established a manufactory of carriage-bows in the city of Cleveland, but not in
any other place or places; and that by the terms of his contract with the complainants he is entitled so to do, and in said
business to use the alleged improvements covered by the patent described in the bill.
The case was -heard on the pleadings and proofs, when the
Circuit Court being satisfied that under the contract set up in
the answer each party had a right to use, without the payment
of royalty, the patent issued to the complainants, a decree was
entered dismissing the bill. The complainants took the present appeal.
It is now contended, on the part of the appellants, 1st, that
at the time when the bill was filed the contract set up in the
answer was not in force, having been previously rescinded by
the parties; and, 2d, that if the contract is in force, it does.
not secure to the appellee the right to the use of the improvement covered by the patent to John A. Topliff of August 24,
1875, belonging to the appellants.
The circumstances which, according to the contention of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

the appellants, constitute the rescission of, the contract are
claimed to be as follows:
They allege that when the contract in question was entered
into, the application of the appellee for his patent was pending; that a sample specimen of the carriage-bow intended to be
covered by the patent was shown by the appellee to the appellants; that the appellee represented to them that the pateht
would cover the use of tubular -carriage-bows; that in point
of fact the original appilication made the following claims:
"1. The upright part of carriage-bows, constructed of tubular sheet metal A, in combination with the wooden bow
3,put together in the manner and for the purposes set forth
and described.
"2. The tube A, with elongated flat portion c, to form a
solid joint with the b6w-socket -D in the manner described.
"3. The scallop-edged sheet-iron bow-socket D to be used
in connection with the tubes A and A', inthe manner described."
That these claims were rejected in the Patent Office, and
in lieu of them the claim of the patent as issued on December
27, 1870, was substituted, as follows:
"The straight part of the bow A; tubular and flattened at
the lower end, the bow-socket D, consisting of two concave
scalloped pieces, and the bent part of the bow B, all combined,
constructed, and arranged as and for the purposes set forth."
That the appellants were not aware of the. rejection of the
original claims until some time in the year 1879; that during
that period .they acted under the impression that they were
secured in the exclusive-right to use carriage-bows containing
the tubular uprights; that they had no knowledge to the contrary until the fact was disclosed by an examination of the"
records of the Patent Office; that immediately upon discover-.
ing it they gave notice, to the appellee that the consideration
Jfor the contract between them had thus failed, the patent being
of no avail. to them, and that they would no longer regara it
'as obligatory, and that thereupon the appellee acquiesced in
this rescission of the contract by them, and resumed his ownership of the original patent, surrendered the same, and obtained
a reissue thereof on January 6, 1880, the claims of,which are
as follows:

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
0pinion"of the Court.

"1. A carriage-bow, the side or upright portions A A of
which axe tubular, substantially as and for the purpose shown.
"2. A carriagebow consisting of the bent wooden section
B and the tubular sections A A, the latter constituting the
vertical sides or arms of the bow, the opposite ends .of the
bent portion B being secured to the upper ends of the tubular
sections A A, substantially as set forth.
"3. A carriage-bow consisting of the bent wooden sections
B and the metallic tubular sections A A, the latter constituting the straight or vertical sides of the bow, substantially as
set forth.
"4. A carriage-bow consisting, of the bent wooden section
B and the tubular sections A A, the latter constituting the
straight or vertical sides of the bow, and constructed at their
lower ends to be attached to a socket or carriage-seat, substantially as set forth."
On the other hand, it appears from the testimony in the
case, that the manufacture of the carriage-bows, as contemplated under the application for the original patent, was abandoned by the parties before the patent was in fact issued, ex-perience showing that the bows so made were not practically
useful in the trade; that the original patent of December 27,
1870, soon after it was issued, was delivered to the appellants,
and kept in their possession until it was lost or destroyed in
December, 1873, and that thereby they had abundant opportunity of knowing, from an examination of its. contents, the
actual extent of its claims; and that subsequently the patent
of fay 16, 1871, was issued to the appellee for a new and
improved carriage-bow cover and slat-iron combined, which
embodied important improvements on the carriage-bow as previously made.
Under this patent all the parties continued to carry on the
business of making and selling carriage-bows, the articles of
manufactive being from time to time improved and rendered.
more valuable and salable by the suggestion and adoption of
improvefihents made from time to time by both parties. To
cover some of the improvements thus invented and adopted,
the appellant, John A. Topliff, applied for and obtained his

-128

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Couft,

patent of August 21, 1875. The claims of that patent are as
follows:
"1. In combiation with the back tubes of bow-gockets and
wood bows or fillings, a steel or other hard-metal plate, 'welded
or otherwise fastened within the tube to the slat-iron, substantially as and for the purpose specifie.
"2. The combination, with the metaltubes of bow-sockets,
of 9' wobden filling, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth."
John A. Topliff states, .as a witness in the case, that his
improvenent consisted "in placing a fllihg of wood in the
tubes of the bow-sockets to strengthen the same, and also in
extending'the trip of steel, which is, inserted in the wood filling, far enough down to enable it"to be welded or otherwise
fastened to the slat-iron." After the issue of this patent, the
business was continued by the parties as before, the carriagebows and bow-sockets being made with all the improvements
added; the appellants continuing regularly to account to the
appellee, according to the terms of the contract between them,
for his share of the proceeds of the sales of the manufactured
articles, being fifteen per cent of the wholesale selling prices
of all actually sold. These sums amounted in the aggregate
to $10,000 or $50,000, and the payments were made regularly
until in August or September, -1879.
In reference to John A. Topliff's patent of August 24, 1875,
the appellee claimed that the idea of a wooden filling in. the
tubesof the 'bow-sockets was suggested by him, and that of
welding 'the steel plate to the slat-iron was suggested by his
brother. On that point he says in his testimony:
'"Some time in 1874 or 1875, I think it was, I came home,
and my brother said that they had concluded to patent that.
device of welding the steel to the slat-iron, and he said that he
thought that they had better take out a patent or make one
claim for the filling also. I told him that the flling, of course,
was my improvement, and I did not know that it would be
right to insert it into his patent. He said it would make no
difference, as our contract'would cover it all. He said that it
would mke no difference which took out the patent, whether

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

it was in his name or my name, and I- made no further objection to it; but I always claimed, and he never disputed it at
that time, that the device was mine as far as. the filling was
concerned."
This statement of the appellee as a witness is not contradicte-d by the testimony of either John A. Topliff or George
H. Ely, the appellants, the only other witnesses examined in
the cause.
In 1879 the appellee left the employment-of the appellants,
and -made preparations to establish a business of his own in
the manufacture of carriage-bows and bow-sockets in Cleveland, claiming the right to do so under the terms of his contract, when the present controversy arose between them. In
explanation of their continuing to pay royalty under the contract as late as in 1879, John A. Topliff states in his testimony,
as follows:
"We paid royalty from the fact that we supposed that we
were working under his original patent; we did not know to
the contrary. The original patent was somewhere, perhaps,
in our office, and was burned up in 1873, I think,- I think
that was the time of the fire, - and we had not seen it for a
long time, and supposed that we were working under theoriginal patent until we finally received the fie-wrappers from
Washington, informing us to the contrary, and when we
received them, together with the patent, we found out that
we were not working under his patent and refused to pay
further royalty."
This explanation cannot be accepted. It is inconsistent
with the facts testified to by the same witness, as well as
others, that the manufacture of the bows and bow-sockets
under the.original patent ceased early in 1870, before, in fact,
that patent was issued; and that the business was actually
carried on under Isaac N . Toplif's patent of May 16, 1871,
and the subsequent improvements patented to John A. Topliff
under the patent of August 21,1875. The fact, therefore, that
the patent of December 27, 1870, was of no practical value in:
the business was well known and perfectly understood from a
very early period in its prosecution, and the patent of May 16,
VOL. CXx=-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

1871, was accepted by the parties as a substitute for it. The
appellants, therefore, cannot claim that they made the first
discovery of its inutility in 1879, ani had a right by reason
thereof to rescind the contract for a failure of consideration.
It was equally immaterial that Isaac N. Topliff subsequently
thereto, in 1880, surrendered that patent, and obtained the reissue. If the reissue is void, the situation of the parties is not
changed; if it is valid and useful, it inures to the benefit of the
appellants as well as to that of the appellee by virtue of the
express terms of the agreement between them.
The second proposition of the appellants is, that if the contract set up in the answer is in force, it does not secure to the
appellee the right to the use of the improvement covered by
the patent sued on. The language of the agreement is this:
"It is also further agreed that any improvement made on
these articles by either party shall be for the mutual benefit of
the parties."

It is contended by the appellants that the articles referred
to in this clause of the contract are those. mentioned in the
former part of the agreement as meaning articles to be manufactured under the original patent of Isaac N. Topliff of December 27, 1$70, and that the improvement which is to inure,
by virtue of the clause quoted, to the mutual benefit of the
parties, must be an improvement upon the patented article.
This, however, it seems to us, is too narrow and restricted a
meaning to be placed on the language of the parties, and fails
to secure their actual intention. The subject of the contract is
the manfacture and sale of bows and bow-sockets for carriage
and buggy tops, in which the parties were to have mutual
interests, as defined in the contract. It was supposed, and
this undoubtedly was the original basis of the agreement, that
the appellee had secured the exclusive right to a valuable improvement in the manufacture of this description of articles.
iHis application for the patent was then pending; the patent
was in fact subsequently issued. In the meantime the article as
proposed was manufactured and put on sale, and ascertained by
experience not sufficiently to answer the purpose. By mutual
suggestion and assent improvements in the.manufacture were

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

adopted, and some of them embraced in the second patent
to the appellee of May 16, 1811. The article made under that
patent was treated as the article intended by the contract. Other improvements were subsequently devised and
adopted for perfecting the same article, and these were embraced in' the patent to John A. Topliff of August 24, 1875.
-The operations of the parties in the manufacture and sale of
the article were carried on, and continued.to enlarge and
prosper, and became profitable; and the parties throughout
acted upon the assumption and understanding that the article
thus manufactured was the article contemplated by the contract between them. If there were any doubt or ambiguity
arising upon the words employed in the clause of the contract
under consideration, they would be effectually removed by this
practical construction continuously put upon them by the
conduct of the parties for so long a period.
"In cases where the language used by the parties to the
contract is indefinite or ambiguous, and hence of doubtful
construction, the practical interpretation of the parties themselves is entitled to great, if not controlling, influence.
Tho interest of each generally leads him to a construction
,most favorable to himself, and when the difference has become
serious and beyond amicable adjustment, it can besettled only
by the arbitrament of the law. But in an executory contract,
and where its execution necessarily involves a practical construction, if the minds of both parties concur, there can be no
great danger in the adoption of it by the court as the true one."
Chicago v. ShekknUeo, 9 Wall. 50, 54, _per Mr. Justice Nelson.
In our opihion, the contract between the parties set up in
the answer continued in force, notwithstanding what was
ddone by the appellants in 1879 with the intention to put an
end to it; and, by virtue of its terms, the appellee is 'entitled
o manufacture, in Cleveland, carriage-bows and bow-sockets,
using therein the combinqtrons covered by the patent to John
A. Topliff of August 24, 1875, without royalty, and without.
being charged with liability as an infringer.
The decree of the Circuit Court in dismissing the bill, which
is its whole legal effect, was therefore right, and is hereby
Affimed.

