STATE BANK v. ST. LOUIS RAIL CO.
Statement of the Case.

of in the decrees to which the Minnesota company was a
party
So, also, of the claim which was made before the master to
recover back the money paid to redeem the Bronson and Soutter mortgage. That money was paid by the Minnesota company, and that company alone can sue for its recovery Such
a suit was once brought and a decree rendered against the
company
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was
right, and it is consequently

STATE BA1TK v. ST. LOUIS-RAIL FASTENING
COMPAINY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted April 22,1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

The question whether, upon all the facts specially found by the Circuit
Court when a trial by jury has been waived, the plaintiff has the legal
right to recover, is not one which can be brought to this court by a certificate of division of opinion.

Tins was an action of assumpsit, brought by a corporation
of Missouri against a national bank established in Illinois, to
recover the amount of certain checks drawn on the bank in
favor of the corporation. Plea, non assumpsit. A jury was
duly waived, and the Circuit Court, held by two judges, found
and stated in detail certain facts, which may be summed up as
follows
About March 1, 1873, the bank was appointed depository
for the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Illinois, and was informed of the appointment. Shortly
afterwards the clerk of that court began to deposit with the
bank funds belonging in the registry of the court, and by his
direction the bank opened an account with the court. These
deposits were at first made to the credit of the particular case

OCTOBER TERM, 1886..
Statement of the'Case.

to winch the funds belonged, by name audI number; but subsequently by the clerk's direction .the name was dropped and
only the number was entered on the ticket accompanying
each deposit, as well as in the books of the bank and in the
clerk's deposit book, the bank understanding that the numbers
referred to the cases in the court.
During the years 1879, 1880 and, 1881 case No. 2105 was
pending.on the bankruptcy side, of the court, and deposits of
moneys realized from the estate of H. Sandford & Co., and
belonging in that case, amounting to $38,300, were so made
and entered.
In Mfay, 1881, four checks, for $2653.41'm all, drawn by the
clerk and countersigned by the judge of the District Court,
and in the form adopted by the court m its dealings with the
,bank, were given by the clerk to the plaintiff for dividends on
its claims proved in case No. 2105, and were afterwards presented to the'bank, and refused payment, and on July 8, 1881,
were protested for non-payment.
The funds, belonging to case No. 2105 that had been deposited with the bank would have been more than sufficient
to pay these and all other checks drawn in that case, but the
account of the court had been overdrawn to the amount of
$43.13, by the bank's having paid checks in the usual form,
including many checks drawn in cases, as indicated by the
numbers, in which no deposit had ever been made. The bank
always treated -the account as an entirety, and paid out of
it all the checks drawn against it until Ithe deposits were exhausted.
The bank never was furmshed with a copy of Rule 28 in
bankruptcy, and had.no actual knowledge of that rule. The
clerk never presented to the court the account and vouchers
required by Rev Stat. ยง 798, and never made, or was required
to make, the monthly report provided for in that rule.
The two judges certified-to this court that upon these facts
they were "opposed in opinion as to the legal right of the
plaintiff to recover on the checks in controversy" The presiding justice being of opinion that the law of the case was
with the plaintiff, judgment was entered accordingly in the
Circuit Court, and the defendant sued out this writ of error.

STATE BANK v. ST. LOUIS RAIL CO.
Opnion of the Court.

_ffr -Milton Hay and _MrHenry . Greene for plaintiff in
error.
AXh. C. C. Brown and Mr. George Hunt for defendant in
error.
M.

Jusrioi

GA-Y, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The matter in dispute being less than $5000, the jurisdiction
of tbis court depends upon the certificate of division of opmion, in which the only question certified is whether, upon all
the facts found by the court, the plaintiff has the legal right
,to recover upon the checks in controversy
But the office of a certificate of a division of opinion between two judges in the Circuit Court is to submit to this
court one or more points of law, and not the whole case, nor
the general question whether upon all the facts, as agreed by
the parties in a case stated, or specially found by the court
when a trial by jury has been waived, the judgment should be
for the one party or the other.
In Ha,"z v Elliott, 10 Pet. 25, one of the questions certified was, "upon the facts stated, whether the plaintiffs have
any right or title to the lands taken for streets, in which the
trespass is sujpposed to have been committed, and can maintam their said action." This court held that it could express
no opinion upon that question, because, as said by Mr. Justic&
Thompson in delivering judgment, it "is too general, embracing
the merits of the whole case, and does not present any single
point or question, and it has been repeatedly ruled in this
court, that the whole case cannot be brought here, under the
act of 1802, upon such a general question."
The subsequent decisions under the successive acts of Congress upon this subject are uniformly to the same effect.
United States v. Brzggs, 5 How 208, 3Tesmita v ASheldon, 6
How 41, TWaterville v. Van S7yke, 116 U. S. 699, Williamsport Bank v. .na"p, 119 U. S. 357.
The necessary conclusion is, that the question certified cannot be answered, and that the
Writ of errormust be dismissed.

