OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

IRVINE v. THE HESPER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued May 0, lSST.-Decided May 27, 1587.

On an appeal by the'llbellants in a cause of salvage, from a decree of the
Circuit Court which awarded to them a less amount than the District
Court had awarded, on an appeal from that court taken only by the
libellants, this court, being unable to say, from the findings of fact by
the Circuit Court, that that court did not properly exercise its discretion
in making the illowance it did, affirmed its decree.
An appeal in admiralty from a District Court to a Circuit Court vacates
altogether the decree of the District Court, and the case is tried de novo ;
and this is true, whether both parties appeal, or whether only the one or
the other appeals.

THIs was a libel in rem, in admiralty, brought in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, by Robert Irvine and Charles L. Beissner, owners of
the steam lighter Buckthorn and the steam tug Estelle,
against the steamship Hesper, in a cause of salvage.
The libel set forth salvage services rendered to the Hesper
by the Buckthorn and the Estelle, in pulling her off from the
shore, at Galveston Island, about twenty-five miles from Galveston, Texas, where she had grounded on her voyage from
Liverpool to Galveston, with a cargo of salt, in December,
1882.
The answer of the owners of the Hesper averred their
readiness to pay a reasonable compensation for the services
actually rendered by the, two vessels, but denied that more
than compensation for actual services and time was due, and
denied that the services rendered were salvage serviccs.
Proofs were taken, and the District Court, in April, 1883,
18 Fed. Rep. 692, made a decree adjudging that the libellants
were entitled to compensation in the nature of salvage, for
the saving of the Hesper and her cargo, and allowing to the
libellants, for the servides of each of the two vessels, $3000,

IRVINE v. THE HESPER.
Statement of the Case.

and to the owners of the schooner Mary E. Clark, and men
who had been employed to load upon her part of the cargo of
the Hesper, and to jettison such cargo, $2000; and, the claims
of the owners of that schooner and of those men having been
settled by the Hesper, it was ordered that the $2000 should
go to the Hesper.
Both parties gave notice of appeal from this decree to the
Circuit Court. The libellants perfected their appeal, but the
claimants of the Hesper did not perfect theirs. Some. further
proof was taken in the Circuit Court, and, on the 13th of
November, 1883, that court, having heard the cause, filed the
following findings of fact and conclusions of law:
"This cause came on to be heard on the transcript and
evidence, and was argued. Whereupon, the court, being
advised of the evidence, finds the following as the facts of
the case:
"1st.- That, about 5.45 Am. of the 12th day of December,
A.D. 1882, the steamship Hesper, bound on a voyage from
Liverpool to Galveston, being out of her comuse, ran aground
at the southwest side of Galveston Island, about twenty miles
southwest from Galveston, and nearly opposite the life-saving
station. The Hesper was an iron propeller, and built in
Hartlepool, England, in 1881, at a cost of twenty-two thousand pounds; her registered tonnage is, gross, 1651 tons; net,
1069 tons. Her freight capacity is 1950 tons. She has powerful engines of 50 horse-power, with steam windlasses and
winches, and on said 12th of December was well found and
well manned in every respect. She was ladened with a cargo
of about 900 tons of salt.
"2d. That, when the Hesper went ashore, her engines were
slowed down and she was making about four knots per hour.
She struck easily without shock and remained upright. Hqr
draft was then thirteen feet nine inches. The sea was smooth
and there was very little wind; what there was was from the
south, and the ship headed, when she struck, northeast by
north. Kedge-anchors were immediately put out to the east
southeast, and efforts made to get the ship off in that direction, with the ship's engines heaving on those anchors. At
VOL. cXX-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

the same time, a message was sent overland to Galveston, the
nearest port, to the ship's agent, to send assistance.
"3d. That the agent of the ship applied to the agent of the
tug Estelle, and procured that tug to go to the assistance of
the Resper. The Estelle was a long, narrow, deep boat, drawing about eight feet eight inches, and was the most powerful
tow-boat in Galveston harbor, and had aboard the usual appliances of such boats. The Estelle reached the Hesner about
5 p.m. of the 12th of December and reported. The master of
the Hesper endeavored to bargain with the master of the Estelle as to the cost of pulling the Hesper off, but the ruaster of
the Estelle refused to make any agreement, on the ground
that he did not know how much labor and time it would take.
A line was then given the Estelle, from the stern of the Hesper, which was then more off the shore than the bow, and the
Estelle hauled on said line for about two hours, during which
time the crew of the Hesper, with some four 'or five hands
from the life-saving station, were throwing over cargo. N~o
'appreciable rqsult came from this towing of the lEstelle, and
she desisted on the orders of the master of the Hesper.
"14th. That, in the meantime, the sea, which had been
smooth, with very little swell, had begome more turbulent,
and there was a very decided increase in the ground swell
from the southeast. Not so much, however, but that small
boats were flying around the Hesper, and life-boats were running easily to and from shore. _At this time of stopping hauling by the Estelle the master of the Hesper requested the
Estelle to come alongside and run a heavy anchor out seaward
from the Hesper, both to keep the Hesper from drifting further in, and for the Hesper to heave on to pull herself off.
This the master of the Estelle refused to do, on the ground
that there was too much sea on, and that he would thereby
endanger his own boat, and thereupon the Estelle, taking
aboard the Hesper's agent, who had come overland, proceeded back to Galveston, to procure more assistance. It -was
then found that the Estelle was making some water from a
leak caused by a defect in the staff of the stuffing-box, which
was not tight enough, and was worked loose by the strain in

IRVINE v. THE HESPER.
Statement of the Case.

hauling on the Hesper. However, the Estelle proceeded that
night (of the 12th) to Galveston bar, where she laid until
morning, reaching Galveston wharves about noon of the 13th
of December. The Estelle lay at the wharves repairing until
the morning of the 14th of December, when she took the
schooner Clark, which had been engaged by the Hesper's
agent to lighter cargo, in tow, and towed her down to the
Hesper.
"5th. That, on the 13th of December, the ship Hesper was
lively, though still aground, shifting her position slightly,
but not affecting her safety, some 450 tons of water having
been pumped into her ballast tanks to put her down and keep
her from going nearer in shore, and her crew being engaged
in throwing over cargo, while waiting for assistance. And, on
the same day, the agent engaged the Buckthorn, a steam
lighter, belonging to libellants, of lighter draft and power
than the Estelle, to proceed to the Hesper, which she did,
taking down a heavy anchor and cables, and two new hawsers, (the latter purchased by the Hesper's agent,) and a gang
of men employed by the Hesper's agent, to help lighter cargo
and generally assist, and also provisions and other necessaries,
arriving in the night and lying by until morning.
"6th. That, on the morning of the 14th of December, the
position and condition of the Hesper was much the same as on
the preceding day, the weather being calm and the sea smooth.
About nine o'clock in the morning, the gang of men brought
dow . by the Buckthorn, after breakfasting aboard the Hesper,
commenced to jettison cargo, and the Buckthorn carried out
seaward and dropped the heavy anchor brought down from
Galveston, in about IS feet of water, connecting the same, by
hawsers and cables of about 210 fathoms in length, with the
steam-winch of the Hesper. The Buckthorn then also took a
line from the Hesper, and pulled on her, while the machinery
of the Hesper was heaving on the hawsers leading to the
heavy-anchors, but no relief was given. Towards noon on the
14th the Estelle arrived, with, the Clark in tow. The Clark
was placed alongside of the Hesper, and cargo was transferred
to her by the crew and the gang aforesaid. This lightering

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

was kept up until about four o'clock in the afternoon, when
about one-third of the cargo was removed, and nearly all the
ballast water pumped out, and then the -Estelle took a line
from the Buckthorn, and a general effort was made by the
Buckthorn, the Estelle, and the Hesper's engines, to get the
)aesper off, which succeeded, whereupon the Hesper, which
was uninjured, steamed to Galveston.
"'tth. Where the Hesper went aground, the slope of the
ground seaward is gradual, and the bottom is sand.
"8th. The prevailing and probable winds on that shore,
during the month of December, are from the south and southeast, sometimes of great violence.
"9th. During the three days the Hesper was aground, there
was no wind nor sea of any danger to ships, large or small,
and the services rendered to the Hesper, aiding her 'to get
safely off, were not attended with any hazard or danger, or
any circumstances unusual to the towage and lighterage business, as carried on in Galveston roads, when the wind is
moderate and the sea smooth.
"10th. That the value of the Hesper, which was entirely
uninjured by going ashore, was one hundred thousand dollars,
and the value of her cargo saved was six thousand five
hundred dollars. The value of libellants' two boats, the tug
Estelle, and the lighter Buckthorn, was thirty-five thousand
dollars.
"11. That the Hesper, when aground as aforesaid, was in a
condition of peril and distress, hardly likely to be able to get
out of danger by her own efforts, even if the weather had been
certain to continue favorable for many days, and certain to be
wrecked if the weather should prove to be bad.
' 12th. That the services rendered the Hesper by the libellants' boats, the Estelle and Buckthorn, were salvage services,
but of the lowest grade, involving neither risk. of property,
peril of life or limb, nor unusual expense, nor gallantry,
courage, or heroism, and the same will be fully compensated,
by double compensation on the basis of towage and'lighterage
services.
"13th. The Estelle was engaged in these services three days

IRVINE v. THE IESPER.
Argument for Appellants.

and one night, and the Buckthorn two days and one night.
The outside earnings of either of these boats, with- their appliances, is three hundred dollars per day, wliich, allowing as
much for night work, would make the sum of twenty-one hundred dollars compensption, and double compensation is the sum
of forty-two hundred dollars.
"And the court finds the following as conclusions of law:
"1. The services rendered by the libellants' boats, the
Estelle and the Buckthorn, and their respective masters and
crews, were salvage services of the lowest grade.
"12. That the court should award for said services the sum
of forty-two hundred dollars.
"3. That libelants should have judgment for the sum of
forty-two hundred dollars and costs incurred in the District
Court.
"4th. That the libellants should pay the costs of this court."
Thereupon a decree was made by the Circuit Court in favor
of the libeilants, for $4200 and the costs of both courts. - 18
Fed. -Rep. 696. From this decree the libellants appealed to
this court. Their notice of appeal stated that they claimed, as
their compensation for the salvage services to the vessel and
cargo, one-fourth of the sum of $106,500, found by the Circuit
Court as the value of the Hesper and her cargo.
-

Mr. Effa ifunton for'appellants.
These services of salvage were rendered with skill and enterprise, and with a probable risk of lives and property. The
vessels used 'by the salvors were steaan vessels. In T4
BkwowaZl, 10 Wall. 1, 13, it is said:
"Steam vessels are always considered as entitled to a liberal.
reward, not only because the service is usually rendered by a'
costly instrumentality, but because the service is generally rendered with greater promptitude and is of a more effectual character.

.

.

Courts of admiralty usually 6onsider the fol-

lowing circumstances as the main ingredients in determining
the amount of the reward to be decreed for salvage service: (1)
The labor expended by the salvors in rendering salvage ser-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Appellants.

vice. (2) The promptitude, skill, and energy displayed in rendering the service and saving the property. (3) The value of
the property employed by the salvors in rendering the service,
and the danger to which it was exposed. (4) The risk incurred by the salvors in securing the property from the impending peril. (5) The value of the property saved. (6) The
degree of danger from which the property was rescued."
It will be found that every one of these circumstances
formed ingredients in this case.
Iabor expended. - The salvors had two powerful and costly
steam vessels engaged two or three days, one of which was
injured in this salvage service.
The promptitude, skill, and energy are apparent by the evidence and findings. The Estelle went to the rescue of the
Hesper as soon as she was informed of her danger, and was
followed by the Buckthorn as soon as it was apparent the
Estelle needed further help. The skill and energy are apparent from the success of the efforts.
The value of the property employed by salvors was greater
than in most cases,-$35,000.
The risk incurred.-This,as stated above, was the risk of
-wrecking the lighter and steam-tug, and the possible risk of
life. Risk of life is not a necessary ingredient, but it places
the salvors in a higher position of merit and entitles them to
a more liberal compensation. iSpencer v. The harl'es Avery,
1 Bond, i1T; The William, Beckford, 3 0. Rob. 356; The
Emulous, 1 Sumner, 207.
The value of the proverty saved.-This is found to be
$106,500.
The danger from which the property was rescued.-This,
according to the 11th finding, was very great, and involved
the probable total loss of the ship.
It will be seen that all the ingredients for a liberal allowance existed in this case.
In The Blackwall, the ship was on fire in the harbor of
San Francis.co; the owners of the tug got.up steam; took two
fire-engines on board with firemen enough to work them, and
lay alongside the burning ship, and in a little more than half

IRVINE v. THE HESPER.
Argument for Appellants.

an hour the flames were entirely extinguished. Decree for
salvage for ten thousand dollars, - one-half to the owners -of
the tug.
Now, compare this case of The Blackwall with the one
under consideration. In the former, the time was a half-hour;
in the latter, two days and nights; in the former, there was
but one tug; in the latter, a lighter and a tug; in the former,
there was no danger; the only danger feared was the falling
of the spars, which were supposed to be burning, but really
were not; in the former but a small portion of the salvage
service was performed by the hbellants; in the latter, the
whole service was performed by libellants, except in jettisoning the cargo.
Judge Story, in Tyson v. Prior,1 Gallison, 133, says: "In
general, salvage ought not to be less than one-third, unless the
property saved be very valuable and the service very inconsiderable."
In the case of the ship Henry Ewbalnlk, 1 Sumner, 400, the
court says: "In the distribution of salvage the owner of the
salvor ship ought, under ordinary circumstances, to be allowed one-third of the salvage."
In Bearse v. 340 Pigs of Co2per, 1 Story, 314, 326, the
court says: "The maritime policy is to make a liberal allowance for salvage -the highest compensation in most meritorious cases being one moiety."
In the case of The &ip Blaireau, 2 Cranch, 240, 266, Chief
Justice M arshall lays down the doctrine of salvage with his
usual force and clearness. He says: "If We search for the
motives producing this apparent prodigality in rewarding
services rendered at sea, we shall find them in a liberal and
enlarged policy. The allowance of a very ample compensation for those services (one very much exceeding the mere risk
encountered and labor employed in effecting them) is intended as an inducement to render them, which it is for the
public interests and for the general interests of humanity to
hold forth to those who navigate the ocean."
In Desty's Shipping and Admiralty the doctrine of salvage
and the rate of allowance is- treated very clearly and all the

264

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

authorities cited. See §§ 318, 319, and, 320, and the authorities cited in the notes. These authorities are-sery numerous,
and it will be seen that in no case, haying the - iricmstances
of this case, has less been awarded as salvage than one-fourth.
The allowance for salvage is in the discretion of the court, but
this is a legal discretion, regulated and governed by the law
and the evidence. If this discretion is not properly exercised,
it is the duty of appellate courts to ,correct its improper
exercise.
It is maintained that this discretion was not properly exercised by the Circuit Court for Texas; that great injustice was
done to the libellants; and that this small allowance of salvage will discourage the efforts of salvors, and break up what
has been declared very important to commerce.
It is believed the -decision of the court below is erroneous,
and that the same should be reversed with directions to
decree to the -libellants one-fourth of the value of the ship
and cargo saved.
Xr. John IH. Twmag for appellees.
XMP.. JUsTICE BLATOHFORD,

after stating the case as reported

above, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is assigned for error, that the Circuit Court erred in
deciding that the services rendered by the Estelle and the
Buckthorn were salvage services of the lowest grade. This is
found by the Circuit Court both as a conclusion of fact and a
conclusion of law. Regarding it as a conclusion of fact,
it is not reviewable here. Regarding it as a conclusion
of law, it is based upon the finding of fact that the salvage
services involved "neither risk of property, peril of life or
limb, nor unusual expense, nor gallantry, courage or heroism."
The Estelle having been engaged in the services three days
and one night, and the Buckthorn two days and one night,
the court, treating the whole service as a service for seven
days, and finding that the outside earnings of either of the
boats, with its appliances, was $300 per day, being $2100 for
seven days, doubled the compensation:, and made it $4200,

IRVINE v. THE HESPER.
Opinion of the Court.

stating that that would be a fU compensation, on the basis of
towage and lighterage services.
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, 18 Fed. Rep. 698, says:
"Proctor for respondents in this case admits in argument,
that, by reason of the service of the extra anchor furnished
by the libellants, the service amounts to salvage service. But
for this admission I have grave doubts whether I could have
found as a fact that the services ranked above towage and
lighterage service, to be compensated on the priniple of a
quanturm merult. But salvage services being taken as established, the question is one solely of amount. As a fact in the
case, I have found that there was neither risk of property,
peril of life or limb,. nor unusual expense, nor gallantry,
courage or heroisA. The evidence shows there was no
enterprise in going out-in tempestuous weather, as the
weather was moderate and the libellants' tug oilly went
out when called upon and employed so to do. The labor and
skill furnished 'were of the ordinary kind, such as libellants'
boats were seeking as ordinary employment. Salvage, then,
is to be determined entirely by the distress in which the
salved property. was. The distress of the Hesper was the
salvoers opportunity, and the amount of salvage, on this point,
determines the whole case."
The principle upon which the Circuit Court proceeded, as.
stated in its opinion, was, that, although storms might have
come which would have destroyed the Hesper, the services
actually rendered to her. by the tug, and the lighter were
ordinary services, and that, if storms had come, the tug and
the lighter might easily have sought safety.
We recently had occasion to fully consider the question of
salvage in the case of D Connimara,108 'U.S. 352, where
it was contended that the facts found by the Circuit Court did
not constitute salvage service, and that,.if a salvage service,
it was salvage of the lowest grade, and the amount allowed
was exorbitant. Holding the services to have -beensalvage services, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, said, (p. 359):
"The amount of salvage to be awarded, although stated by
the Circuit Court in the form-of a conclusion of law,.is largely

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

a matter of fact and discretion, which cannot be reduced to
precise rules, but depends upon a consideration of all the
circumstances of each case." It is further there said, that, by
the uniform course of decision in this court, during the period
in which it had jurisdiction to reverse decrees in admiralty
upon both facts and law, the amount decreed below was never
reduced unless for some violation of just principles, or for
clear and palpable mistake, or gross over-allowance; and that,
since the act of Congress of February 16, 1875, c. 77, restricting the appellate power of this court within narrower
bounds, and limiting its authority to revise any decree in admiralty of the Circuit Court to questions of law, this court
may, in cases of salvage as in other admiralty cases, "revise
the decree appealed from for matter of law, but for matter of
law only; and should not alter the decree for the reason that
the amount awarded appears to be too large, unless the excess is so great that upon any reasonable view of the facts
found, the award cannot be justified by the rules of law applicable to the case." The decree appealed from in that case
was affirmed, upon the ground that this court could not say,
upon the findings of facts, that the amount awarded was so
excessive as to violate any rule of law. The same principle
was applied in TMe Tornado, 109 U. S. 110, 115.
These views are equally sound in the case of an alleged
under-allowance. We cannot say, from the facts found in the
case at bar, that the Circuit Court did not properly exercise
its discretion in making the allowance it did, even though
that amount ivas less than the amount allowed by the District
Court.
The claimants not having appealed to the Circuit Court, it
is suggested that they are liable for at least the amount
awarded by the District Court and that the Circuit Court
could not reduce that amount, but had jurisdiction, on the
actual appeal, only to increase it. It is well settled, however,
that an appeal in admiralty from the District Court to the
Circuit Court vacates altogether the decree of the District
Court, and that the case is tried de novo in the Circuit Court.
Yeaton v. United State, 5 Cranch, 281; Anonymous, 1 Gallison,

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Petitions for Rehearing.

22; 7 Roarer, 1 Blatchford, 1; The ratoga v. 438 Bays
of Cotton, 1 Woocds, 75 ; 17w Lucille, 19 Wall. 73; :The Charles
.Morgan, 115 U. S. 69, '75. We do not think that the fact that
the claimants did not appeal from the decree of the District
Court alters the rule. When the libellants appealed, they did
so in view of the rule, and took the risk of the result of a
trial of the case de novo. The whole case was opened by
their appeal, as much as it would have been if both parties
had appealed, or if the appeal had been taken only by the
claimants.
T7w decree of the Circuit Court is af rned, with costs, and
without interest to the libellnts on that decree.

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER, STEEL CO.
(LIMITED).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIAN7A.
Submitted May 3, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

The decision in this case, 120 U. S. 619, affirmed, on an application for a
rehearing.
The lien law and the redemption law of the state of Indiana considered.
The effect of a redemption under the Revised Statutes of Indiana, §§ 770 to
776 considered.
Rails and other articles which become affixed to and a part of a railroad
covered by a prior mortgage, will be held by the lien of such mortgage
in favor of bona fide creditors, as against any contract between the furnisher of the property and the railroad company, containing a stipulation
that the title to the property shall not pass till the property is paid for,
and reserving to the vendor the right to remove the property.
Notice of such a contract to a purchaser of bonds covered by such mortgage will not affect his rights if he purchased the-bonds from those who
were bonafide holders of them, free from any sdch notice.

PETTONS for a rehearing of the case decided at this term

and reported 120 U. S. 649.
omitting the titles :

The petitions were as follows,

