OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

and reasonable time" for the return of a survey was settled
at seven years, as had been suggested in the previous case of
Star v. Bradford.
We think thatthese authorities reach the present case, .notwithstanding the inception of title took place prior to the
year 1765, and that the decision of the Circuit Court whs
right; and it is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

ESTES v. GUNTER.
APPEAL FROM

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF EISSISSIPPI.
Submitted May 3, 1887.- Decided May 27,1887.

In Mississippi an insolvent debtor may make a general assignment of his
property for the benefit of his creditors, with preferences.
A deed by an insolvent debtor in Mississippi to secure sureties on his note
made in advance of, and in contemplation of, a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors Is valid under the laws of that state, although
containing a provision that the grantor shall remain in possession until
the maturity of the note.
A payment by an insolvent debtor of a debt due to his wife, in advance and
in contemplation of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
does not invalidate the subsequent assignment.
The taking of supplies and of money for family use from the store of an
insolvent trader by his wife does not invalidate a general assignment for
the benefit of *creditors, subsequently made.

IN March, 1882, one S. H. Gunter, a merchant who had been
for many years engaged in business at Sardis, in Mississippi,
was largely indebted to the complainants and others; and,
being unable to pay them in full, made a general assignment
of his property of every description, except such as was
exempt from execution, to one S. G. Spain, as trustee, for
their benefit, which was recorded the same day. The assignment preferred certain of the creditors, who were named in a
schedule annexed. Among them were the complainants,
Estes, Doan & Co., merchants at Memphis, in Tennessee. The

ESTES v. GUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

sum due them was $13,587.68, but they were preferred only
to the amount of $10,000. Their claim grew out of advances of
cash and supplies furnished to Gunter. There was no question
as to its amount or justice. On the same day and immediately
precedig the execution of the assignment, Gunter executed a
deed of a house and lot in Sardis to olie J. G. Hall, as trustee, to
secure the firm of Boothe, Rice & Carleton, who were sureties
upon his note, held by the bank of Sardis, for $1000, due on
the first- of December, 1882., This deed was to be void if the
note was paid at maturity; otherwise the trustee was, on the
written request of the sureties, to take .possession of and sell
the property at public auction, after due notice, and apply the
proceeds to its payment. Any surplus was to be returned to
the grantor. If the property should at any time "become
endangered" as a security, the trustee was at liberty to take
possession of and hold it until the debt was discharged by
payment or by sale of the property, but until demanded by
the trustee the grantor was to hold the same subject to the
deed of trust. This deed was also recorded on the same day
and a few minutes before the assignment.
At the same time Gunter transferred and delivered to
several of his clerks and employes certain notes and accounts
in payment of his indebtedness to them. It was also in proof
that Gunter wag hopelessly insolvent; that for twelve days
before he made the assignment he knew of his condition and
contemplated making the assignment; that during this time
he gave to his wife the sum of $900 in payment of an alleged
indebtedness to her, and she was permitted to take money
from the drawer of the store, and that more goods than usual
were carried from the store to his house.
Soon after the assignment and deed of trust were recorded,
the defendants, Bickham & Moore, who were also creditors of
Gunter, sued out an attachment against him in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Nbrthern District of Mississippi, which was levied on the property assigned by Gunter
to Spain as trustee. This attachment was followed by attachments of other creditors, and the property was seized by the
marshal. Spain, the assignee, thereupon renounced his trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellees.

and refused further to act. Thereupon the complainants,
Estes & Doan, who were much the largest creditors of Gunter,
filed their bill against Bickham & Moore nd other attaching
creditors, setting forth the assignment of Gunter to Spain, his
debt to them, the several attachments levied, and the refusal
of Spain, the assignee, to act, and praying the court to appoint
a trustee in his place, to direct the enforcement of the trust,
and to enjoin the attaching creditors 'from further proceeding
with their suits.
Bickham & Moore and other defendants answered, charging that the assignment was fraudulent and void, but admitting that Spain refused to act as trustee or assignee. Proofs
were taken, and upon the hearing the court held that the
assignment was fraudulent and void, and accordingly entered
a decree dismissing the bill with costs. From this decree the
complainants appealed to this court.
:Yg,. Eukce . TV9'igt for appellants.
AL'. 1 ..

Sullivan for appellees, Bickham & Moore.

-Mr. TV. F-. Sullivan for appellees..
.Xr. E(dwwrd .fayes for appellees.
Treating the deed of trust as a part and parcel of the assignment, there are four distinct provisions of the trust deed,
any one of which, being considered part of the assignment, will
avoid it:
First. Spealiing of the property conveyed, it says, "until
demanded by the said trustee, said partyof the first part shall
hold the same subject to this deed of trust." By the terms of
the deed, a demand by the trustee before the 1st day of December following, (that being the date of the secured debt's
maturity,) was not possible except on the contingency that the,
property should become endangered as a security; in which
event the trustee was empowered (not required) tQ take possession. Here is a direct retention to his own use by the as-.
signor, for a period of at least eight months, of a very material

ESTES v. GUNTER.
Argument for the Appellees.

part of the property assigned, and the assignment is thereby
avoided. Burrill on Assignments,
56 Mississippi, 142.

§ 203 ; Harma,&
v. Htoskins,

Second. Speaking of the disposition of the proceeds of sale
by the trustee, the deed says, "and if there be a surplus, such
surplus shall be returned to the party of the first part" -not
to the assignee. The two ingtiuments being in fact but one
transaction, the assignee consents that the balance shall 'be
paid not to him, but to the assignor. The very debt secured
by the trust deed is also preferred in the assignment, so that
any distribution to the creditors under the' trust deed would
have enlarged the surplus reserved t6 the grantor.
Thd. Speaking of the conditions under which the trustee
may sell, the deed says, "Should the party of the first part
promptly pay tho above stated indebtedness on or before the
1st day of December, 1882, then this instrument to be void;
but, in default thereof, the said trustee, at the written request
of the party of the second part, or their legal representatives or
assigns, shall take possession," &c., &c. Here it is not the
default which authorizes the trustee to sell, but the request of
the creditor, for the making of which no limit of time is fixed,
or any security given to the general creditors (or to the purchasers under any assignee's sile) against an indefinite postponement. The whole matter is committed absolutely to the
creditors' discretion, with 12 per cent interest accumulating, a
very satisfactory income to them, so long as there was any
margin of value whatever in the property, as, in fact, the property was not sold until three months after it might have
been. Mayer v. &ield, 59, Mississippi, 107; Bu.'d v. Smith,
4 Dallas, 76 ; Burrill on Assignments, §§ 214 to 217.
Fourth. This last provision avoids the deed and the assignment for another reason: it hinders the bank of Sardis itself in
the collection of its debt. The bank could not collect through
the assignee, because the property is pat out of his hand1 - nor
can it direct the trustee, since by the very terms of the crust
the direction to sell must be given not by the creditor bank, but
by the joint action of all the sureties. No sale could be made
,except by their consent, or by an appeal to the courts. We can-

OCTOBER TER31, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

not speculate on the possibility that the sureties might act
properly; the deed clearly puts it in their power to withhold the
property from the creditor, and is most clearly, for that reason, calculated to hinder and delay him in-his collection.
This assignment was executed in Mississippi by a Mississippi debtor to a Mississippi assignee. It is, therefore, a Mississippi assignment, the validity of which must be tested by the
Mississippi law.' The fact that the appellants are citizens of
Tennessee does not alter this rule. Livermore v. Jenkes, 21
How. 126.
The rule is well settled in Mississippi that the assignee in an
assignment to secure antecedent debts is not a bona fde purchaser for value, and that if for any reason the assignment is
fraudulent and void as to the grantor, the beneficiaries cannot
take under it, since it is also void as to them. - Cra e v. Bloon,
59 Mississippi, 69.
These questiolis, arising under §g 1293 and 1294 of the Mississippi Code of 1880, the decision of the Mississippi .Supreme
Court on this point will be deferred to by this court according
to the well-settled rule.
MI. JUsTIcE FI FLD, after stating the case as above, defivered
the opinion of the court, as follows:
It appears from its opinion in the record, that the court
below held the assignment of Gunter for the benefit of his
creditors to be fraudulent and void on these grounds: 1.. Because of the execution of the trust deed to Hall to secure the
sureties on his note held by the bank of Sardis; 2. Because of
the payment of the $900 to his wife, shortly before the assignment, for a debt which he claims to haye owed to her;
3. Because he permitted her to take money from the cash
drawer; and 4. Because more supplies than usual were taken
from the store to his house shortly before the assignment.
The answer to these objections is readily given, and it appears to us conclusive. The laws of Mississippi allow an insolvent aebtor to make a general assignment of his property in
which bne or more of his creditors may be preferred to others.

ESTES v. GUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

The assignment is not invalid, therefore, because of the preferences given. In Eldidge y..Phillison,58 Mississippi, 270, 280,
the Supreme Court of that state said: "The right to make a
preference results from the dominion which the owner has over
his property; it is a part of his proprietorship. The law has
not said he shall divide his estate ratably among his creditors.
It has left to him the discretion to, act as he wills, provided
only he acts with the honest intent to pay a valid 'ebt, and
does not, under cover of such a disposition, stipulate for a
benefit to himself."
Nor did the deed to Hall to secure the sureties on the
assignor's note affect the validity of the assignment, though
made in contemplation of it. Such security might have been
provided in the assignment itself. The assignor had a right
to use his property to protect parties who had become his
sureties, as well as to pay existing debts. Until the assignment he could dispose of his propprty in afly way he may have
thought proper, so that he did not thereby defraud any of his
creditors.
The court below seems to have concluded that the two
instruments, the assignment and the deed to Hall, should be
considered together, and, as the deed contained a proviso that
the grantor was to remain in possession of the property until
the note matured, and. the sureties should request the trustee
to take possession of the same, there was such a reservation
for the benefit of the grantor as rendered the assignment
invalid. The deed was in fact a mortgage of the property to
secure against, a prospective liability, and in such cases it is
usual for the grantor or mortgagor to remain in possession
of the property until the maturity of the obligation and a sale
of the premises. Standing by itself, the deed was not open to
any serious objection. And even that reservation was defeated
by the assignment, which included the property in question
with oth6r property of the assignor, and provided that the
assignee should take possession of the same and sell and dispose of it with all convenient diligence. The assignment. was
subsequent to the deed and carried all that could in any way
be considered as a benefit secured by the deed to the assignor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The creditors were not, therefore, in any way hindered or
defrauded by the alleged reservation.
There is nothing.in Gunter's payment to his wife of the $900
which can affect the validity of the assignment. Gunter's
testimony is all that -there was on the subject, and he testifies
that she received the money from her grandfather, and that
he borrowed it from her atid used it. His statement is not
contradicted. Under these circumstances he was not blameworthy in paying to his wife the amount he had used belonging to her. But, as counsel well observes, if that payment
were fraudulent, it would not vitiate a subsequent assignment.
A fraudulent disposition of property does not of itself impair
a subsequent general assignment. The assignee may sue for
its recovery, and, if successful, it will be for the benefit of the
creditors precisely as if it had been included in.
the assignment.
Vilo n v. Berg, 88 Penn. St. 167; Reinhard v. .Bank of
Kentucky, 6 13. Mon. 252.
The same observation may be made as to the alleged taking
of money by Mrs. Gunter from the cash drawer, and of his
sending supplies from the store to his house. She was a clrk
in the store and took the money from the drawer in the course
of business, and supplies for Gunter's house were generally
taken from the store. It was quite natural, therefore, that he
should take needed supplies before the assignment was executed. There is no evidence that the supplies were excessive
or unreasonable, but even if they were, that fact would
constitute no ground for setting the subsequent assignment
aside.
From a consideration of the whole -case, we are clear there
is no just ground shown by the record for disturbing the
assignment. It follows that the decree below must be
Reversed, and the cause remandedfor further _proceedings
inaccordance with this .opinion; and it is so ordered.

