STRUTHERS v. DREXEL.

487

Names of Counsel.

STRUTHERS v. DREXEL.
ERBOR TO THE CRCUIrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
"WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENISYLVANIA.
Argued May 2,1887.-Decided

May 27,1887.

If a record in error contains the charge in full, with a memorandum at the
close that certain portions are excepted to, but they are not verified or
included ili a proper bill of exception, it is not part of tl . record for
any purpose.
S. contracted with D. in writing, in which, aftbr reciting that D. had
purchased 400 shares of a certain stock at $50 per share, S., in considerati6n of one dollar, agreed at the end of one year from date if D.
desired t6 sell the shares at the price paid, to purchase them of him
and pay that amount with interest. When the time expired, D. elected
to sell, and tendered the stock; and, S. refusing to take it and pay for
it, D. sued him for the contract price,.declaring on a contract whereby
the plaintiff sold and agreed to' deliver to defendant 400 shares of the
stock at e50 per share, to be paid by defendant on delivery, in consideration whereof the defendant undertook and promised to accept the stock
and pay for the same on delivery. Held, That this declaration set forth
properly the legal effect of the contract, and the omission of the statement of the nominal consideration was immaterial, and need not be
proved.
The letter of the defendant in error of March 20, 1876, was admissible in
evidence.
When a declaration In assumpsit contains a special count, under which on
* the pioofs the plaintiff can recover, and also general counts, an instruc'tion to the jury thatthe plaintiff can recover under the general counts,
if it be erroneous, works no injury to the defendant.
The transaction between theparties, so far as disclosed'by the record, was
not a loan of money, and consequently no question of usury could arise.

AssuTPsrr. Verdict and judgment for plaintiff. Defendant

sued out this writ of error. The case is ,stated in the opinion
of the court.

.If. George Shirag, Jr., and -r. .Rlasse~a Brown, for plaintiff in error. .Afr. TF. . Lin&ay was with them on the brief.
Mr. ,John Dalzeg for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion .of the Court.

Mit. JusTinc,

MAITHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of assumpsit brought by the defendant in
error against the plaintiff in error and Thomas S. Blair, the
latter not having been served withi process. The declaration
contained two special cbunts, as follows-,

"For that whereas heretofore, to wit, on the 4th day of
April, A.D. 1873; at New York, to wit, in the Western District
of Pennsylvania aforesaid, in consideration tha the said plaintiff, at the special instance and request of the said defendants,
would take and pay for, at the rate of $50.00 per share, four
hundred (400) shares of the capital stock of the Blair Iron and
Steel Company, i corporation orgabized under the laws of
Pennsylvania, they, the said defendants, undertook, and then
and there faithfully promised the said plaintiff, that if at the
end of one year from said date he, the said plaintiff, should desire to sell the sqid shares at the said price by him paid for the
same, they, the said defendants, would -puichase the said
shares of the said stock, to wit, four hundred shares of the
said Blair Iron and Steel Company, at the- said price, to wit,
fifty dollars per share, and pay him, the said plaintiff, therefor at the said rate, together with interest at the rate of seven
per centum per annum.
"And the said plaintiff avers that he, confiding in the said
promises and undertaking of the said defendants, did afterwards, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, to wit, at the
district aforesaid, take and pay for four hundred (400) shares
of said stock aforesaid, at the rate of $50.00 per share, amounting in all to a large sum, to wit, the sum of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000).
"And the said plaintiff further avers, that at divers times
subsequently, to wit, on the 4ih day of April, A.D. 1874, and,
to wit, on the 4th day of April, A.D. 1875, in consideration
that the said plaintiff, at the special instance and request of
the said defendants, would waive lhis right of election to sell
to the said defendants the said shares of the capital stock of
the said Blair Iron and Steel Company, to wit, four hundred
(400) shares thereqf, they, the said defendants, undertook, and

STRUTHERS v. DREXEL.
Opinion of the Court.

then and there promised faithfully the said plaintiff, that; if at
the end of one year from the said last-mentioned dates, respectively, to wit, April 4, AD. 1874, in the first instance, and April
4, A.D. 1875, lastly, he, the said plaintiff, should desire to sell
the said hereinbefore-mentioned shares at the said price by
him paid for the same, they, the said defendants, would purchase the said shares of the said stock -at the said price paid
by him, the said plaintiff, paid therefor, to wit, fifty dollars
per share, and pay him, the said plaintiff, therefor at the said
rate, together with interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum.
"Yet the said defendants, not regarding their said promises
and undertakings, although often requested so to do, and.
although the said stock was by the said plaintiff tendered to
the said defendants, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, to
wit, at the district aforesaid, have not as yet paid to the said
plaintiff the said sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00),
but have hitherto wholly neglected and refused, and do still
refuse and neglect, to wit,. at the Western District of Pennsylvania, to the damage of the plaintiff thirty thousand dollars.
"And the said-plaintiff further complains of the said defendants for that whereas heretofore, to wit, on the 4th day of
April, A.D. 1876, to wit, at the Western Distridt of Pennsylvania, the-said defendants bargained for and bought of the
said plaintiff, at the special instance and request of the said
defendants, and the said plaintiff then and there sold to the
said defendants, a large quantity of goods, to wit, four hundred
(400) shares of the capital stock of the Blair Iron and Steel
Company, at the rate or price of $50.00 per share, with seven
per cent interest added from April 4, A.D. 1873, to be delivered
by the said plaintiff to the said defendants, and to be paid for
by the said defendaiits to the said plaintiff on the delivery
thereof as aforesaid, and in consideration thereof, and that the
plaintiff, at the like special instance and request of the said
defendants, had then and there undertakeii and faithfully
promised the said defendants to deliver the said stock to the
said defendants in the. time and at the place aforesaid, they,
the said defendants, undertook, and then and there faithfully

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

promised the said plaintiff, to accept the said stock of and from
him, the said plaintiff, and to pay for the same on the delivery
to them, the said defendants, as aforesaid.
"And though the said plaintiff afterwards, to wit, on the
day and-sear aforesaid, to wit, at th Western District of Pennsylvania aforesaid, was ready and willing and then and there
tendered and offered to deliver the said stock to the said defendants, and then and there requested the said defendants to
accept the same and to pay him therefor as aforesaid, yet the
said defendants, not regarding their said promises and under'takings, but contriving and craftily and subtly intending to
deceive and to defraud the said plaintiff in this behalf, did
not nor would at the time when they were so requested as
aforesaid, or at any time before or afterwards, accept the
said stock or any part thereof of or from the said plaintiff or
pay him for the same as aforesaid, but then and there wholly
neglected and refused so to do, to the damage of the plaintiff
thirty thousand dollars."
It also contained common counts, for goods bargained and
sold, money had and received, and money laid out and ex-:
pended for the use of the defendants.
To this declaration the plaintiff in error pleaded as to all
the counts: 1st. That the consideration mentioned in the
alleged agreements, referred to in the declaration, bearing
date April 4, 1873, April 4, 1874, and March 22, 1875, was
never paid,,nor was any-valid congideration paid or given, or
agreed to be paid or, given therefor. 2d. That the alleged
agreenents were usurios under the laws of New York, where
they were made, being a mere device or contrivance for obtaining to the plaintiff more than the legal rate of interest for
money advanced by way of loan to the Blair Iron and Steel
Company. 3d. That the plaintiff did not tender the 400
'share's of stock referred to in the plaintiff's declaration, as
therein alleged. 4th.. That the alleged agreements were void
as against public policy, being in fraud of the other subscribers to the stock of the Blair Iron and Steel Company,.
as they secured to the plaintiff an advantage over other subscribers by a'secret agTeement.. "th. That the agreement set

STRUTHERS v. DREXEL.
Opinion of the Court.

out in the declaration was without consideration. 6th. The
statute of limitations of six years.
The cause was tried by a jury, and a verdict and judgment
rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $34,651.36,
to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The transcript of the record coiftains what purports to be
the charge of the court in full, with a memorandum at the
close, stating that defendants' counsel excepted to certain portions thereof; but, as it is not verified, or. included in any
proper bill of exceptions, we are not at liberty to treat it as a
part of the record for any purpose. Several bills of exception
were taken, during -the progress of the trial, to rulings of the
court, on which assignments of error are alleged, and which
we will consider in their order.
1st. From the first bill of exceptions it appears, that upon
the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence two papers, one
dated April 4, 1873, and the other March 22, 1875, as follows:
"NEw YoRx, April 4.,1873.
"Whereas Joseph W. Drexel has purchased four hundred
shares of the stock of the Blair Iron and Steel Company, sold
by.A. S.. Diven, trustee of said company, at the price of fifty
dollars per share:
"Now, we, the undersigned, in consideration to us of one
dollar, in hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do hereby agree that if, at the end of one year from
this date, the said Drexel shall desire to sell the said shares at
the price paid for the same by hini, we will purchase the same
at that price, and pay to him the amount paid by him on
the same, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum.
"April 4, 1873.
"THos. S. Bn..

" THo3rAs STruTHmms."

"NEw YoiK, March 29, 1875.
"In consideration of the waiver by Joseph W. Drexel of
the right of election to sell to us the four hundred shares of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

stock .in the Blair Iron and Steel Company (subscribed and
paid for by him), as he was entitled to do by agreement with
us in 1873, renewed and extended by agreement of 1874 to
April 4, I875,. we do hereby agree that his right to do so shall
be extended for another year, viz., to April 4, 1876. If he
shall at that time elect to sell to us the four hundred shares

so subscribed and held by him, we will receive and pay for
the same the amount paid by him therefor, with interest at
the rate of seven per cent per annum from the dates of the
payment by him of thee respective instalments thereon, and
as collateral security, for the performance by us of this our
agreement we have placed in the hands of Joseph W. Drexel
four hundred shares of the stock of the said Blair Iron and
Steel Company to be held by him in trust for that purpose.
"THos. S. 'B n& .
"THoY.s

STRUTHERS."

To the ieception in evidence of these papers the defendants'
counsel objected, stating that he did 'not deny their execution,
but that they were not admissible in evidence, because the
plaintiff had averred in the declaration that the consideration
of the contract was the subscription to'400 shares of stock in
the Blair Iron and Steel Company, whereas in these papers
the consideration set forth is the payment of one dollar.
The objection was overruled, and an exception taken. This
ruling is now alleged as error. In ruling on the papers, the
court said the contracts were admitted subject to consideration

thereafter, in view of further evidence which might be adduced. The bill of exceptions does not set out what, if any,
further evidence was adduced. We are of opinion that the
testimony was properly admitted. Even if there was a variance between the contract as shown by. these papers and that
alleged in the first count of the declaration, certainly there
was none between the allegations of the second count and the
written instrument as offered, according to its legal effect.
The second count of the declaration sets forth a contract
whereby the plaintiff sold and agreed to deliver-to the defendants 400 shares of the capital stouck of the Blair Iron and Steel

STRUTHERS v. DREXEL.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, at the price specified,, to be paid by the defendants
on delivery, in consideration whereof the defendants undertook
and promised to accept the said stock and pay for the same
on delivery in accordance therewith. This is precisely the
legal effect of the contract set out in the instrument dated
April 4, 1873. The recital in that instrument, that the plaintiff had purchased the same from the trustee of the Blair Iron
and Steel Company is mere matter of inducement and immaterial. The statement of the consideration of. one dollar paid
is also entirely immaterial, and may be treated as merely nominal. The real agreement embodied in the instrument is, according to its legal effect, that at the end' of one year from
that date the defendants would buy and pay for the number
of shares of stock mentioned at the price specified, on delivery
thereof at that time by the plaintiff. When thdreafter at the
time. specified, as it was subsequently extended, the plaintiff exercised his option by a tender of the stock, the contract became
unconditional and absolute, and from that time the plaintiff
was entitled to treat it as a contract in ordinary form for the
sale and delivery of the subject of the agreement. The second
count of the declaration sets it out in that form, and .according to its legal effect, which is all that is required by the strictest rules of pleading.
2d. The second bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiff
offered in evidence the following paper :
.'NEw YORK, Mffarch 20, 1876.
"Gentlemen: I hereby notify you that I desire to sell the
four hundred shares of the stock of the Blair Iron and Steel
Company, held by me under the option of sale according to
the terms of the agreement between you and J. P. Morgan
and J. W. brexel, of April 4, 1873, and the several renewals
thereof.
"You are hereby notified tlaf I am ready to transfer the
stock to you; or to any Person or persons whom you may
designate, upon the payment of the purchase money thereof
and seven per cent interest thereon from date of payment.
"I hereby tender you the certificate of stock, and I demand

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fulfilment of your contract on the premises. I am ready and
willing at any time to transfer the stock upon the book of
the company and fully perform.the condition of rescission of
purchase.
"Respectfully,
J. W. DExEL.
"To Mess. Thos. S. Blair and T. Struthers."
The admission of this paper in evidence, which was objected
to, is assigned for error. There is no ground for this exception. - The paper was certainly competent as constituting one
item in the proof that the plaintiff exercised the option to sell
the stock in accordance with the agreement, and tendered it
for delivery.
3d: The third bill of exceptions states that in the further
progress of the trial the defendants' counsel offered to prove
by two witnesses that the consideration, one dollar, named in
the said agreement was not paid by the plaintiff, or by anybody on his 'behalf, to the defendants. This offer was rejected on objectionmade, and an exception taken. W3 have
already said that the mention of this nominal consideration
was entirely immaterial, and might properly be omitted from
any statement of the contract in a pleading which set out its
legal effect. It was, of course, thdrefore, not necessary to
prove it, and imiaterial if disproven. The real consideration
for the defendants' agreement to buy was the plaintiff's
agreement to sell, determined by the exercise of his option
and the tender for delivery of the stock for that purpose.
I 4th. The fourth bill of exceptions is based on an alleged
error occurring in the following portion of the charge to the
jury:
"Supposing that he (Wallace) did comply with his instructions (in making the demand), then did it become the duty of
Mr.-Strutheis to pay the amount represented by that stock?
If it did become his duty to pay that money, then we instruct
you that the declaration in this case (what we call the common money counts), is suffcient to enable him to recover.
Where parties have made a contract by which certain things
to be done on one side and certain things on the other, if one

STRUTHERS v. DREXEtL.
Opinion of the Court.

party does all those things that are required to be done by
him to entitle him to a sum of money from he other partyj
he may recover that sum of 'money under the common money
counts. We instruct you, therefore, that so far as the pleadings are concerned, there is no difficulty in the plaintiff recovering, under the declaration, a verdict for the amount that is
due him."
The point of the objection is, that the jury was instructed
that a recovery in favor of the plaintiff might be had under
the common money counts of the declaration, and this is
alleged for error. If so, however, it did not prejudice the
defendants; for, as we have already seen, a lecovery might
be had upon the contract, considered as an executory contract
for the purchase by the defendants of the stock in question,
under the second special count. In addition to that, so far as
the bill of exceptions shows, it might well be that there was
proof in the case, not only of a tender of the stock, but of an
actual delivery and acceptance. In that case, the contract
would have been completely executed on the part of the
plaintiff, title to the stock passing by the delivery to the defendants. In such a case, the charge would be entirely correct, and a recovery might be had under the common counts.
5th. The fifth bill of exceptions is based upon an alleged
error in the following portion of the charge:
"On the face of the papers the question is whether there
was any loan at all. There is no usury unless there is a
loan of money, and the question is whether the transaction
involved a loan or attempted loan of money. We have looked
at these papers carefully, and we instruct you that there is no
evidence on their face that there was any intention to loan
between the plaintiff and the defendant whereby usury could
arise.
"It is our duty to give you instructions on that subject, and
we say to you that upon that point the defence of the defendant must fail."
This charge is correct. There is nothing upon the face of
the papers to show that the transaction was a loan of money
by the plaintiff to the defendants,or to the Blair Iron and

Q96"

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Paintiff in Error.

Steel Company. Unless there was a loan there can be no
usury. The bill of,exceptions sets out no evidence to show
the transaction to have been different ,from what it appears to
be on'the face of the papers.
This covers all the points raised upon the record. We find
no error in the proceedings of the Circuit Court, and it§ judgment isacordingly
_Afwmed.

BEAN v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURlT OF

THE

UNITED

THE' WESTERN DIVISION OF THE WESTERN DISTRICT

STATES

FOR

OF MISSOURI.

Argued April 18,19,1887.-Decided May 23,1887.

The court, being satisfied that the conveyance\of real estate by the husband,
when insolvent, to a trustee for the benefit of his wife, (which is assailed
in this suit,) was made in good faith to secure an indebtedness from him
to her for sums previously realized by him from sales of her individual
property; sustain it, as combing within the doctrine, well settled here, that
while such a deed, made undei such circumstances, is not valid if its sole
purpose is to secure the wife against future necessities, it is, if made to
secure a prior existing indebtedness from the husband to the wife, as.
valid as if made to secure a like indebtedness to any other of his creditors.

Ix equity to set aside a deed as fraudulent.
ing the bill. Plaintiff appealed..

Decree dismiss-

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.James . Botsford,-(with whom was Xr. f. T. C. Williams on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error cited: Thompson v.
Thompson, 19 Maine, 244; Harris v. Erelange BankT, 4 Dillon; 133; Seitz v. Mitchell, 94- U. S. 580 ; 'Baldwin v. Whitcomb, '1 Missouri, 651 ; Hendersom v. Henderson, 55 Missouri,
554; Parish v. furphree, 13 How. 92; Fisher v. Lewis, 69
Missouri, 629 ; Keener v. Trigg, 98 U. S. 50; Hamlin v. Jones,
20 Wis. 536; Sloan v. Yorry 18 Missouri, 623; Bauer v.

