BEEDLE v. BENNETT.
Statement of the Case.

BEEDLE v. BENNETT.
&PPVET FROM THE CIoUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
SubmItted January7, 1887.-

Decided May 23, 1887.

If a bill in equity to restrain an infringement of letters-patent be filed
before the expiration of the patent, the jurisdiction of the CL -uit Court
is not defeated by the expiration of the patent by lapse of time before
the final decree.
The case of Eames v. Andrews, just decided, is applied to the issues in this
case, so far as they are identical with those in that case.
The use of this invention by the inventor In the manner stated in the
opinion of the court, and his delay In applying for a patent under the
circubnstances therein detailed for more than two years prior to his application, did not constitute an abandonment of his invention, or a dedication of it to the public, and did not forfeit his right to a patent under
the law, as it stood at the time of his application.
The use by the respondents of driven wells for their personal use on their
farms, which wells were operated by means of the process patented to
Green, constituted an Infringement of that patent.

BEn in equity to restrain infringements of letters-patent.
The patent expired by its own limitation after the filing of
the bill, and before final decree. The final decree and allowance of appeal were as fdllows:
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the pleadings in
agreed statement of facts and axguments of counsel, the court
finds the reissued letters-patent sued on valid, and to have
been infringed by defendant, and that the complainants have
an established license fee of $10 per well driven by the process
described and claimed in the patent, for which said sum, and
interest from thd 15th day of May, 1883, the date of fMling the
bill herein, the complainants are entitled to a decree which, to
the first day of this term, amounts to $12.03.
"The patent having expired, it is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the court [complainants] do recover the sum of
$12.03 per well driven in accordance with said patent, with
interest from the 5th day of October, 1886, and his costs, to
be taxed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"An appeal being prayed by defendants, it is allowed, and
bond fixed at $250, and it is ordered that the other causes
pending in this court on said patent be stayed until such
appeal has been decided by the Supreme Court, and no entry
or decree be made in them pending said appeal."
The case is stated in the opinion of the court:
X)3. Arthur Btm for appellant.
.1'.JTon F. Follett, M'. David -..Eyn,
Thomn
H . eley for appellees.

and XMr'.

MR. JusTicE.MAr'rmws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellees May 15, 1883,
to restrain the alleged infringement of reissued letters-patent
No. 4372, issued to Nelson W. Green, for a driven well. The
cause was heard by stipulation between the parties upon an
agreed statement of facts set out in the record, as follows:
"For the purpose of saving the expense of taking testimony,
it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto that the
above cause and the others hereinafter referred to may bu tried
upon the following agreed statement of facts, said statement
to be accepted as proof of the facts recited as fully, and completely as if the same had been duly and formally proven.
"-It is agreed that Melson-W. Green was the patentee of a
new and valuable process in the construction of wells, and
claimed to be'its first and original inventor, for which process
he received original letters-patent of the United States, No.
U8,425, on the 14th day of January, 1868, and for which reissue
letters-patent No. 43M2 were granted to Nelson W. Green on
May 9, 1811, the application for which having been filed Februnty 24, 1871.
"That the title to the letters-patent sued on for the state of
Ohio is in the complainants.
"That the defendants have had in use on theh farm for the
past seven or eight years one or more driven wells, which wells
were put down for the defendants Dy an ordinary well-driver

BEEDLE v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

in the following manner: A tube, of which the lower portion
was perforated with small holes and the lower end provided
with a point, was driven into the ground until it projected into
the water, "withoutremoving the earth upwards, as in boring.
"The water then entered the tube through the perforations
and was pumped up through the tube by an ordinary pump.
"That the delfendants have never driven wells for themselves
except as above described or for other purposes ; never have
sold or offered for sale driven wells or the materials for driving
them, but have simply used their own wells for their personal
use on their farms.
"It is agreed that printed copies of the original and reissued
letters-patent granted to N. W. Green in 1868 and 1871, Nos.
73,425 and 4372, respectively, may'be offered in evidence at the
hearing, and may be accepted as proof with the same force and.
effect as if formally proven.
"That the said N. W. Green made his alleged invention or
discovery as early as 1861, when he put down on his own
grounds; at Cortland, New York, the first driven well for the.
purpose of demonstrating his discovery.
"That he, at the time of his alleged invention, claimed to
have made a valuable discovery and to have invented a new
process.
"That he then declared an intention, to secure his process by
letters-patent and expressed his belief that large profits would
accrue therefrom.
"That he at that time, having been partly educated at West
Point, was engaged in organizing a regiment at Cortland,
N. Y., his residence, and was expecting soon to take part in
the war of the Rebellion.
"That in June, 1861, he put down a well at his house in
Cortland, and in October, 1861, he publicly drove a well, in the
manner described in his original patent, at the fair grounds
near Cortland, for the use of the soldiers in camp, and demonstrated to his own complete satisfaction its success.
"That he gave orders and directions for the construction of
proper apparatus for driving such wells, and made arrangements for its transportation With his regiment as it was moved
to the seat of war.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"That on the 6th of December, 1861, while in discharge of
what seemed to be his duty, he felt compelled to shoot one of
the captains of his regiment named TvfcNett; that the shot
was not mortal, but inflicted serious injury; that in the then
state of the public mind this occasion gave rise to intense public excitement, out of which sprang a controversy of extraordinary bitterness, involving numerous persons and continuing
for several years; that the effect upon Green was disastrous in
the extreme; that he was suspended from his command,
then tried by a court of inquiry at Albany, and reinstated in
command; that his regiment, after having, it is said, required
the protectiou.of a battery to. save it from violence at the
hands of evil-disposed people of the country, removed to
Washington, where Green was relieved from command, and
then dismissed the service, and subjected to military charges.
"That he was, in addition, harassed by civil suits brought
to charge him with a personal liability for articles used by his
regiment.
"That he was also arrested and then indicted for t&ie shoot-.
ing of Mecett, and after repeated postponements of the trial,
effected because of the excited state of the public mind, was
tried in 1866, and the jury, having disagreed, was discharged.
"That during this period he also became involved in church
difficulties arising out of the shooting of McNett; was expelled from the church and compelled to appeal to the bishop,
and also became involved in litigation with the pastor of his
church.
"That his efforts during this period to secure a reversal of
the order dismissing him from the service -were constant and
absorbing and were attended with such anxiety of mind as to
give rise to the charge that he was insane.
"That this state of things continued up to 1866, during
which period he was of necessity often absent from Cortland,
at Albany and at Washington, and that he was compelled to
devote his entire time to the controversy in which he had -become involved, abandoning all other occupation and exhausting all his means.
"That in November, 1865, when Green saw, by an adver-

BEEDLE v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

tisement in the papers, that driven wells were-being put down,
although he was advised by counsel defending him on the indictment for the shooting of McNett not to apply for a patent,
as he would thereby increase the number of his enemies and
prejudice him on the trial of the indictment, then about to
come on, he nevertheless did then, and in opposition to the
advice of his counsel, file his application and assert his right
to the invention.
"That the said Green, during this period aforesaid, never
declared any intention of abandoning his said discovery and
invention, and that, having so made his application as aforesaid, original letters-patent were granted the said N. W.
Green, January 14, 1868.
"It is further agreed that whatever order or decree is made
in this cause the same shall be made in all the cases pending
in this court in which the same parties are complainants, a list
of which cases, with the title and number thereof, is hereto
attached and made a part of this stipulation.
IIt
is further admitted that the complainants' price for
settling for infringement under the above patent without suit
has been ten dollars per well and the recognition of complainants' rights, and that the complainants offered to settle on such
terms with these defendants before bringing suit, which offer
was refused."
A decree was rendered in favor of the complainants on the
6th day of December, 1886, but, as at that time the patent
had expired, no injunction was granted. The amount of. the
damages awarded was at the rate of $10 for each well used,
that being the amount of royalty which the complainants had
offered to take before suit brought, and admitted to be the
customary price for the same, as a license fee. The defendant
prosecutes the present appeal
As the patent was in force at the time the hill was filed,
and the complainants were entitled to a preliminary injunction at that time, the jurisdiction of the court is not defeated
by the expiration of the patent by lapse of time before 'final
decree. There is nothing in the case of Boot v. Railway Co.,
105 -U.S. 189, to sustain the objection made by the appellant

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

on this account. See, also, Crk v. WVooster, 119 'U.S. 322,
325, and cases there cited. All other defences made in the
cause, except that of prior public use and the defendant's infringement, have been passed upon in the case of Fames' v.
Andrews, just decided.
In the present case the appellant contends that the patentee
publicly used his invention more than two years before heapplied for his patent, and thereby forfeited his right to a patent
under the law. This defence was raised and considered, upon
facts substantially the same, in the case of Andrews v. Carman, 13 Blatchford, 307, and also in the case of Andrews v.
Cross, 19 Blatchford, 294. The law governing the subject of
the alleged dedication and abandonment by Green of his invention prior to obtaining his patent is that which was in
force prior to November, 1865, when he made his application.
By the patent act of 1870, as well as by the Revised Statutes,
all rights previously acquired were preserved. The law, therefore, applicable to the question, is t6 be found in the acts of
1836 and 1839. The act of 1839, as has repeatedly been held,
has no effect to invalidate a patent, unless there be proof of
abandonment, or of a use of the invention for more than two
years prior to the application for the patent. The only facts
from which such an abandonment or dedication can be inferred are, that Green, in June, 1861, put down a well at his
house in Cortland, New York; that, in October, 1861, he
publicly drove a well, in the manner described in his original
patent, at the fair grounds near Cortland, for the use. of the
soldiers in camp, and demonstrated to his complete satisfaction its success; and that he gave orders and directions for
the construction of proper apparatus for the driving of such
wells, and made arrangements for its transportation with his
regiment as it was moved to the seat of war. The circumstances ol delay, which intervened between that date and the
time when he made his application for his patent in November, 1865, are stated in the agreed statement of facts. Those
circumstances sufficiently rebut any presumptions which might
otherwise have arisen of an intention on his part to abandon
and dedicate to the use of the public the invention described

BEEDIE v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

in his patent. The wells made by Green himself at Cortland,
and at the fair grounds near Cortland, for the use of his soldiers, were his first experiments. In respect to these, it was
said by Judge Benedict, in Andrew8 v. Oarman/, 13 Blatchford,
307, 325: "The first experiment was a success in this, that it
proved the possibility of obtaining a supply of water by this
process; but, of course, it could not prove that a tube could
be driven down to a water-bearing stratum in all localitites,
with the cheapness and dispatch necessary to tender the process one of general utility. It was natural, therefore, to suppose, that, before the process could be declared to be satisfactory, other experiments, in other and different localities,
should be made. He could, by law, use his invention for this
purpose, and permit it to be used, for two years, without forfeiting his right to , patent. Under such circumstances, it
would be going far to say, that his act of permitting the use
of his process at the camp in Cortland, where his regiment
was then in camp, and of providing material wherewith to
construct such wells for his regiment when it should move
into hostile territory, amounted to a dedication of his invention to public use, and worked a forfeiture of his right to it."
Section 7 of the act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat. 353, 354, protects every one who had purchased or constructed the subject
of the invention prior to the application for the patent, and
adds as follows : "And no patent shall be held to be invalid
by reason of such purchase, sale, or use prior to the application for a patent as aforesaid, except on proof of abandonment of such invention to the public, or that such'purchase,
sale, or prior use has been for more than two years prior to
such application for a patent." There is no evidence in the
record of any use or sale of the invention by Green before
his application for a patent, and no evidence from which to
conclude that any use of any driven well by others before his
application was consented to or allowed by him, except inthe
instances mentioned at Cortland, which were merely experimental tests, made by himself. Much less is there any evidence to show that there was any use of the invention by
others for more than two years prior to his application.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the question of infringement, the agreed statement of
facts shows the following: "That the defendants have had in
use on their farm for the past seven or eight years one or more
driven wells, which wells were put down for the defendants
by an ordinary well-driver in the following manner: A tube,
of which the lower portion was perforated with small holes
and the lower end provided with a point, was driven into the
grouna until it projected into the water, without removing
the earth ulpwards, as in boring. The water then entered the
tube through the perforations and was pumped up through
the tube by an ordinary pump. That the defendants have
-neverdriven wells for themselves, except as above described,
or for other purposes; never have sold or offered for sale
driven wells, or the materials for driving them, but have simply used their own wells for their personal use on their
farms."
It is now contended, on- the part of the appellant, that the
claim of the patent is for the process of driving the well, and
not for the use of the well after it has been driven, and that
consequently the appellant is not shown to have infringed;
but, as has been shown in the case of Eames v. Andrews, the
patent covers the process of drawing water,from the earth by
mea-As of a well driven in the manner described in the patent.
The use of a vell so constructed is, therefore, a continuing infringement, as every tine water is drawn from it the patented
process is necessarily used. As was said by M[r. Justice Blatchford in Andrews v. Cross, 19 Blatch. 294, 305: "Under this
construction the defendant has*infringed by using the pump
in a driven well, constructed in a house hired by him, to obtain a supply of water for the use of his family, although he
may not have paid for driving the well, or have procured it
to be driven. Such use of the well was a use of the patented
process."
he decree bf tke Circuit Court is accordingly aflrmed.
MR. JusTIcE FIELD, MR.
-Gikny dissented.

JusTIoE

BRnDLi,

and 3Ma.. JusTicE

