TUTTLE v. MILWAUKEE RAILWAY.
Statement of the Case.

TUTTLE v. DETROIT, GRAND HAVEN AND MILWAUKEE RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued April 4,1887.-Decided May 23,1837.
There is no rule of law to restrict railroad companies as to the curves it
shall use in its freight stations and its yards, where the safety of passengers and of the public are not involved.
The engineering question as to the curves proper to be made in the track
of a railroad within the freight stations or the yards of the railroad
company is not a question to be left to a jury to determine.
Brakemen and other persons employed by a railroad company within the
freight stations and the yards of the company, when they accept the
employment assume the risks arising from the nature of the curves
existing in the track, and the construction of the cars used by the company; and they are bound to exercise the care and caution which the
perils of the business demand.
When a servant, in the execution of his master's business, receives an
injury which befalls him from one of the risks incident to the business,
he cannot hold the master responsible, but must bear the consequences
himself.

THIS was an action for negligence resulting in the death of
plaintiff's husband and intestate, Orson Tuttle, a brakeman
in the defendant's employment. The declaration contained

three counts, the first of which charged that on or about the
30th of October, 1882, the said Tuttle was in the employ
of the defendant in the city of Detroit at the "Detroit,
Grand Haven and Milwaukee yards," and in the course of his
ordinary employment was ordered to couple some cars standing on a certain track known as "boot-jack siding;" that said

siding is a double-curve track containing a very sharp curve;
that in compliance with the order he proceeded to couple certain cars on said siding, which were near a certain boat-slip,

and while he was endeavoring to couple said cars the "draw-,
heads" of the cars failed to meet and passed each other,

allowing the said cars to come so close together that he was

OCTOBER TERU, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

crushed to death; that there were no bumpers nor other
device on "either of the said cars to prevent them from going
together, in case said draw-heads failed to meet and passed
each other; and that the only device on said cars' for the purpose of keeping them apart and to receive the concussion
in coupling was the draw-heads -aforesaid. The charge of
negligence was, that the defendant, disregarding its duty,
neglected, in the construction of its said cars, to provide any
means to prevent injuring its said employe in case the draw-heads of its .ears so constructed should fail to meet or pass
each other under circumstances set fQrth; and that the said.
'defendant, in the construction of said "boot-jack siding," so
6alled, negligently and' unskilfully constructed the same with
so sharp a curve that the draw-heads of the said cars failed to
meet and passed each other, thereby causing the death of the
said Orson Tuttle while in the act of coupling said cars as
aforesaid, without fault or negligence on his part.
The third count was substantially the same as the first;
the second count, which charged a defective construction of
the car, in not supplying it with bumpers, or other means of
preventing the. draw-heads from passing each other, was
abandoned at the trial. As -fs'ated in the brief of the plaintiff's counsel,. "the first and third counts allege that boot-jack
siding was negligently and unskilfully constructed by the
defendant with so sharp a curve that the draw-heads of the
cars in use by it would pass each other and cause- the cars to
crush any one who attempted to make a coupling thereon:"
and this alleged faulty construction of the track was the principal matter of contest on the trial; the plaintiff contending
that the defendant was bound, in duty to its workmen and
employes, to construct a track that would not expose them to
the danger which existed in this case; whilst the. defendant
contended, and offered evidence to prove, that the track was
constructed according to the requirements of the situation, a
sharp curve being necessary at that place in order to place the
cars, when loading, alongside of the dock or slip; that such
curves are not uncommon in station yards; that in such conditions the draw-heads of cars quite often pass each other

TUTTLE v. MILWAUKEE RAILWAY.
Argument for Plaintift in Error.

when the cars come together; that this must be presumed to
have been well known to Tuttle, the deceased, who was an
experienced yard man; that he accepted the employment
with a full knowledge of its risks, and must be held to have
assumed them; and that it was negligence on hi part to
place himself in such a situation as to incur the danger and
suffer the injury complained of. It appeared by the evidence
that, when trying to make the coupling, the deceased stood
on the inside of the curve where the corners of the cars come
in contact when the draw-heads pass each other, and will
crush a person caught between" them; whereas on the outside
of the curve they are widely separated, and there is no danger. The defendants contended that the position thus taken by
Tuttle was c6ntributory negligence on his part. On the other
hand, the plaintiff offered evidence tending to show that
it was usual for the brakeman in coupling cars on a curve to
stand on the inside so as to see the engineer and exchange signals with him for stopping, backing, or going forward. The
defendants contended, and offered evidence tending to show,
that this was not necessary, as there were always the yard
master or others standing by and co~perating, by whom the
signals could be given.
This statement of the pleadings and of the leading issues
raised on the trial, is sufficient for properly understanding the
question of law presented to the court. Upon the evidence
adduced, the judge directed the jury to find a verdict for the
defendant, holding that Tuttle wantonly assumed the risk of
remaining upon the inside of the draw-bar, when he should
have gone on the other side, and that the defendant ought
not to be held in this action.
)Jr. 0. X. Ap'ringer for plaintiff in error. Xr. F. A.
Baker was with him on the brief.
I. It was the duty of the defendant to construct and keep in
repair, a proper, sufficient and safe road-bed and track, and it
is liable to an employe for negligence in the performance of
this duty.
In the recent case of NoVrlern Paciic Railroadv. Herbert,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

116 U. S. 642, this court, in an opinion by Mr. Justice Field,
after stating the rule with reference to the risks incident to
the employment, said:
"It is equally well settled, however, that it is the duty of
the employer to select and retain servants who are fitted and
competent for the service and to furnish sufficient and safe
materials, machinery and other means, by which it is to be
performed, and to keep them in repair and order. This duty
he cannot delegate to a servant so as to exempt himself from
liability for injuries caused to another servant by its omission..
Indeed, no duty required of him for the safety and protection
of his servants can be transferred, so as to exonerate him
from such liability. The servant does not undertake to incur
the risks arising from the want of sufficient and skilful colaborers, or from defective machinery, or other instruments
with which he is to work. His contract implies that in regard
to these matters his employer will make adequate provision
that no danger shall ensue to him. This doctrine has been so
frequently asserted by courts of the highest character that it
can hardly be considered any longer open to serious question."
This doctrine has also been recently enforced by the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, in Broderick v. Detroit
rnion Station Co., 56 Mich. 261. In addition to the authorities cited in N orthern Pacific Railroadv. H~erbert, we refer to
the following, in which the employer has been held liable for
negligence in constructing or in not repairing the instrumentalities the se*rvant was required to use in the performance of
his duties: Want of repairs in -theroad-bed of a railroad, Snow
v. Housatonic Railroad,8 Allen, 441. Insufficiently supported
derrick at side of railioad, Holden v. FitchburgRailrbad,129
Mass. 268. Defective construction of trestle work, Elmer v.
Locke, 135 Mass. 575. Failure to repair a tell-tale, or bridgeguard, TFarden v. Old Colony Railroad,137 Mass. 204. Improperly constructed culvert under a railroad. Davis v. Central
Vermont Railroad, 55 Vt. 85; Chicago & fforthwestern Railroadv. Swett, 45 Ill. 197. Machinery negligently set up, Wilson
v. Willimantic Co., 50 Conn. 433. Defective platform or scaffold, Benzing v. Steinway, 101 N. Y. 547; Behm v. Armour, 58

TUTTLE v. MILWAUKEE RAILWAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Wis. 1.

Permitting car-ladder to remain out of order, Rich-

mond & .Danville .Railroadv. .foore, 78 Va. 93. Negligently
constructed railroad, Trask'v. CaliforniaSouthern Railroad,
63 Cal. 96. Rotten ties on the road-bed of a railroad, -. & T.
C. R'y v. .21camara,59 Texas, 255. Defective brake on a
railroad car, Texas &t Pacif-o Railway v. .A.Atee, 61 Tex.
695. Uneven and improperly constructed side-track, Porterv.
Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad, 60 Missouri, 160. Buffers
on two cars so placed that they went by each other, and
crushed employe between the cars, Ellis v. -Yew York, co.,
Railroad,95 I. Y. 546. Defective macliinery for operating a
circular saw, Indiana Car Co. v. Parker,100 Ind. 181. Sidetrack with too short a curve, and an improper connection with
main track, Patterson v. Pittsburg,&c., Railroad,76 Penn.
St. 389.
II. The question of contributory negligence should have
been submitted to the jury.
To hold that a jury would not be warranted in finding that
the deceased was not guilty of contributory negligence would
be a contradiction of the main facts and circumstances of the
case as shown by the record, and a trifling with matters involvingthe life of a human being. See Spicer v. South Boston
tron Co., 138 Mass. 426; Mfulvey v. Rhode Island locomotive
Works, 14 R. I. 204; .elley v. Silver Spring Co., 12 R. I. 112;
Porter v. Hannibal - St." Joseph Railroad, 60 Missouri,
160.
In the case at bar, it was apparent that there was quite a
sharp curve, but that itowas so very sharp or irregular, that
the draw-heads would pass each other, could only be known
by actual experiment, or by the use of instruments. The defect was a latent one in every sense of the word.
-But even if the deceas6d had known of the defect, it would
not necessarily follow that he was guilty of contributory negligence, simply because, in the busy and prompt performance of his work, he did not remember the exact l6cality of
thp point of danger. Snow v. Housatonic Co., 8 Allen, 441;
Greenleaf v. illinois Central, 29 Iowa, 14.
VOL. cxxn-13

194OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lIfr. E. * X..eddagkh, for defendant in error, submitted on
his.biief.
Mi. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the

casey delivered the

opinion-of the court.
We have carefully read the evidence presegted by the bill
of exceptions, and, although it appears that the curve was a
very sharp one at the place where the accident happened,yet
we do not think that public policy requires the courts to lay
down any rule of law to restrict a railroad company as to the
curves it shall use in its freight depots and yards, where the
safety of passengers and the p4blic is not involved; much less
that it should be left to the varying and uncertain opinions of
juries to determine such an engineering question. (For analogous cases as to the right of a manufacturer to choose the kind
of machinery he will use in his business, see Richard8 v.
Rough, 53 Mich. 212; Hayden v. Smithville Xan. Co., 29
Conn. 548, 558.) The interest of railroad companies themselves is so strongly in favor of easy curves as a means of
facilitating the movement of their cars, that it may well be
left to the discretion of their officers and engineers in what
manner to construct them for-the proper transaction of.their
business in yards, &c. It must be a very extraordinary case,
indeed, in which their discretion in this matter should be interfered with in determining their obligations to their employes.
The brakemen and others employed to work in such situations
must decide for themselves whether they will encounter the
hazardsincidental thereto; and if tley decide to do so, they
must be content to assume the risks. For the views of this
court in a cognate matter, see Randall v. Baltimore d Ohio
Railroad,109 U. S. 478, 482, where it was said: "A railroad
yard, where traips are made up, necessarily has a great number
of tracks and switches close to one another, and any ofie who
enters the service of a railroad corporation connected with the
moving of trains, assumes the risks of that condition of things."
It is for those who enter into such employments to exercise all
that care and caution which the perils of the business in each

TUTTLE v. MILWAUKEE RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

case demand. The perils in the present case, arising from the
sharpness of the curve were seen and known. They were not
like the defects of unsafe machinery which the employer has
neglected to repair, and which' his employes have reason to
suppose is in proper working condition. Everything was open
and visible, and the deceased had only to use his senses and
his faculties to avoid the dangers to which he was exposed.
One of these dangers was that of the draw-bars slipping and
passing each other when the cars were brought together. It
was his duty to look out for this and avoid it. The danger
existed only on the inside of the curve. This must have been
known to him. It will be presumed that, as an experienced
brakeman, he did know it; for, it is one of those things which
happen,/in the course of his employment, under such conditions as existed here.
Without attempting, therefore, to give a summary of the
evidence, we have no hesitation in saying that the judge was
right in holding that the deceased, by voluntarily assuming
the risk of remaining on the inside of the draw-bar, brought
the injury upon himself, and the judge was right, therefore, in
directing a verdict for the defendant. We are led to this conclusion, not only on the ground that the deceased, by his own
negligence, contributed to the accident, but on the broader
ground, already alluded to, that a person who enters into the
service of another in a particular employment assumes the
risks incident to such employment. Judge Cooley announces
the rule in the following terms: "The rule is now well settled," says he, "that, in general, when a servant, in the execution of his master's business, receives an injury which befalls
him from one of the risks incident to the business, he cannot
hold the master responsible, but must bear the consequences
himself. The reason most generally-assigned for this rule is,
that the servant, when he engages in the employment, does so
in view of all the incidental hazards, and that he and his employer, when making their negotiations, fxiig the terms and

agreeing upon the compensation that shall be paid to him,
must have contemplated these as having an important bearing
upon their stipulations. As the servant then knows that he

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

will be exposed to the incidental risk, Ihe must be supposed to
have contracted that, as between himself and the master, he
would run this risk."' The author proceeds to show that this
is also a rule of public policy, inasmuch as an opposite doctrine
would not only subject employers to unreasonable and often
ruinols responsibilities, thereby embarrassing all branches of
business, but it would be an encouragement to the servant to
omit that diligence and caution which he is in duty bound to
exercise on behalf of his master, to protect him against the
misconduct and negligence of others in the same service; and
in exercising such diligence and caution he would have a better security against injury to himself than any recourse to the
master for damages could afford.
This accurate summary of the law supersedes the necessity
of quoting cases, which are referred to by the author and by
every recent writer on the same subject. Its application to
this case is quite clear. The defendant, as -we have seen, had
a right to construct its side-track with such curves as its engineers deemed expedient and proper; and as to the draw-heads,
and the absence of bumpers, the plaintiff herself abandoned
all claim founded upon any supposed misconstruction of the
cars in relation thereto. Then, it was clearly shown to be a
not uncommon accident, especially on sharp curves, for the
draw-heads of cars to slip by and pass each other. Tuttle, the
deceased, entered into the employment of the defendant as a
brakeman 'in the yard in question, with a full knowledge
(actual or presumed) of all these things -the form of the sidetracks, the construction of the cars, and the hazards incident
to the service. Of one of these hazards he was unfortunately
the victim. The only conclusion to be reached from these undoubted facts is, that he assumed the risks of the business, and
ilis representative has no recourse for damages against the
company.
This view of the subject renders it unnecessary to examine
the various particular instructions which the plaintiff's counsel
requested the court to give to the jury. The only one that
need be noticed is the following, namely:
"If the jury find that Tuttle had no notice or knowledge

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
Syllabus.

of the fact that the draw-heads would pass on a portion of this
siding, and that the fact itself would not be noticed or discovered by a careful and prudent man while engaged in coupling
cars on said siding, then it cannot be said that he was guilty
of contributory negligence, unless it had already come to his
knowledge that the draw-heads would pass."
On this point the judge stated, in his charge, that "he (the
deceased) knew, as he was an experienced man, that draw-bars
do slip sometimes, even upon a straight track, as it has been
testified to, and the sharper the curve the greater was the danger of their slipping." In making this statement the judge
was fully borne out by the testimony, and there was no evidence to contradict it.
We find no error in the judgment, and it is therefore
affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE
dissenting.

MLXLER,

with whom was Mn.

JUSTICE HAtRLx,

I dissent from this judgment, and especially the proposition
that the railroad company owed no duty to its employes in
regard to the sharpness of the curves of the track in the yards
in which they are employed.
An.JU sTICE HARAN

unites in this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. AUFFMORDT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERNI

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued April 26, 1887.-

Decided 119y 27, 1887.

Under ยง 2839 of the Revised Statutes, there can be no recovery by the
United States for a forfeiture of the value of imported merchandise, the
property of its foreign manufacturer, against the person to whom he
ha(' consigned it for sale on commission, and who entered it as such
consignee, the forfeiture being claimed on the ground that the merchandise was entered at invoice prices lower than its actual market value at
the time and place of exportatioii.
'Section 2839 applies only to purchased goods.

