PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Petitions for Rehearing.

22; 7 Roarer, 1 Blatchford, 1; The ratoga v. 438 Bays
of Cotton, 1 Woocds, 75 ; 17w Lucille, 19 Wall. 73; :The Charles
.Morgan, 115 U. S. 69, '75. We do not think that the fact that
the claimants did not appeal from the decree of the District
Court alters the rule. When the libellants appealed, they did
so in view of the rule, and took the risk of the result of a
trial of the case de novo. The whole case was opened by
their appeal, as much as it would have been if both parties
had appealed, or if the appeal had been taken only by the
claimants.
T7w decree of the Circuit Court is af rned, with costs, and
without interest to the libellnts on that decree.

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER, STEEL CO.
(LIMITED).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIAN7A.
Submitted May 3, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

The decision in this case, 120 U. S. 619, affirmed, on an application for a
rehearing.
The lien law and the redemption law of the state of Indiana considered.
The effect of a redemption under the Revised Statutes of Indiana, §§ 770 to
776 considered.
Rails and other articles which become affixed to and a part of a railroad
covered by a prior mortgage, will be held by the lien of such mortgage
in favor of bona fide creditors, as against any contract between the furnisher of the property and the railroad company, containing a stipulation
that the title to the property shall not pass till the property is paid for,
and reserving to the vendor the right to remove the property.
Notice of such a contract to a purchaser of bonds covered by such mortgage will not affect his rights if he purchased the-bonds from those who
were bonafide holders of them, free from any sdch notice.

PETTONS for a rehearing of the case decided at this term

and reported 120 U. S. 649.
omitting the titles :

The petitions were as follows,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petitions for Rehearing.

And now come again The Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Company (Limited), The Cleveland Rolling M Company, Crerar,
Adani & Uompany, and Volney Q. Irwhi, appellees in the
case above entitled, and jointly and severally petition this Honorable Court for a rehearing of the judgment which has heretofore been entered by this court in said cause, as contained in
the Opinion of the Court filed herein, and for a rehearing of
said cause; and they state the following grounds for such rehearing:
F&st. Your petitioners gver that there is manifest error in
the opinion and judgment of this court in the above cause in
this: In holding and adjudging that the'appellant -was"entitled
as against these petitioners to the entire proceeds derived from
the sale of the property of the Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company, then being insolvent, by virtue of being
the owner of all the bonds of that company, secured by its
miortgages upon such property ;- whilst at the same time such
appellant was himself liable to said, corporation for the use
and benefit of petitioners and other creditors of said company
in the sum of $707,550, by reason of his ownership of the unpaid capital stock of said company to that amount, and which
he acquired and became the owner of along with said bonds,
and for a consideration common to both; and this in a cause
to which all the creditors of the corporation were parties, and
in which the court had appointed a receiver of the company
and its property before appellant had either paid a dollar for
said capital stock and mortgage bonds or filed his bill for foreclosure of the mortgage.
Second. They further aver that there is manifest error in
thP opinion and judgment of this court in the above cause in
this: In holding that appellant acquirbd said bonds from
Drexel, Morgan & Co. as pledgees thereof, and not from Henry
Crawford as owner i the evidence in said cause, and also the
written agreemdht between said appellant and Crawford,
dated December 26, 1884, showing that appellant bought said
bonds from said Crawford, as owner, and for a consideration
more than $800,000 greater than appellant and Samuel M.
Nickerson had agreed to p'ay Drexel, Morgan & Co.. theref6r;

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STFt C'O.
Petitions for Rehearing.

and which written agreement, by its terms, superseded and
became a substitute for the former agreements of June 25,
1884, between, said appellant, Nickerson, Crawforid, and
Drexel, Morgan & Co. And your petitioners respectfully
refer to said agreement of December 26, 1884, called the
"Syndicate Agreement," as conclusive evidence of this, their
contention.
Third. They further aver that there is manifest error in
the opinion and judgment of this court in this: That it is
held by this court that appellant succeeded to the rights of
Drexel, Morgan & Co., as pledgees of the bonds, and that appellant was an innocent holder thereof; and that inasmuch as
the remaining proceeds of .sale of the railway property in the
registry of the Circuit Court is only $325,194.27, and that
appellant's claim on January 12, 1885, for the amount he paid
Drexel, Morgan & Co. on that day, was $392,363.24, there
was no surplus to be paid to your petitioners. Whereas, your
petitioners show.tl %t the amount of appellant's purchase price
from Henry Crawford was $750,000, or an amount exceeding
that paid by appellant to. Drexel, Morgan & Co. with interest
thereon to the date of the decree of the Circuit Court, of over
$300,000, which sum was part antiparcel of the said moneys.
in the registry of the court by the terms of said contract -of
December 26, 1884-, between said Porter and Crawford, and
for which saidPorterwas and is in fact a mere stakeholder as
between said Crawford on the one sidaffd these petitioners
and the other creditors of said railway company on the other.
And your petitioners aver that as between themselves and said
Crawford and the First National Bank of Chicago, as -his
assignee with notice, they have an equity to be paid out of
said sum, in the registry of the court in preference to said
Crawford or said bank, and prior to said. appllant as representing them.
Fourth. -They further aver that there is manifest error in
the opinion and judgment of this court in this: That it is held
by the court, 1st, that there wqs'no bad faith, irregularity, 'eceit or fraud in- the execution 'of the mortgages, or in issuing
of the bonds thereunder; and 'd, that such bonds represented

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petitions for Rehearing.

all the money that had ever been paid by the railway company for the Chicago and Block CoUa Railroad, and for the
construction of the sixty miles of the new road from Attica to
Fair Oaks, excepting only some $40,000 or $50,000 received
from aid voted by townships.
As to the first point, Henry Crawford, to whom the first
million dollars of bonds were delivered in the latter part of
December, 1881, was at the time of their delivery, the owner,
by purchase and assigment; of all the shares of stock of the
corporation, (including the shares of five out of nine directors
composing the board,) with the exception of $10,000 of stock
owned by William Foster; and was such owner and holder of
said stock, including that of such five directors, on the 29th
day of October, 1881, when the directors passed the resolution
authorizing the execution of tht. mortgages and bonds. At
the same time the laws of the state of Indiana, under which
the company was incorporated, required that every director
should be the owner, in good faith, of stock in the corporation, and Henry Crawford himself knew that five out of the
nine directors had no stock, because he himself held and owned
it. From the 23d day of June, 1881, until the 15th day of
March, 1882, (whilst the original board of directors were in
office,) Crawford had in fact the actual domination and control of this corporation, whose board of directors and officers
did precisely as he dictated, with the one exception of refusing
to authorize a proposed construction contract between the
company and him.. The reason for such refusal, as found by
this court in its opinion, was, because Foster prevented it for
the purpose of compelling Crawford to buy the remaining
$10,000 of stock of the company still owned by Foster; and
yet the court cites in the opinion, this one exception to Crawford's domination and control of the board of directors, as
evidence that Crawford did not have such domination or control. Whilst during the period above, Crawford made contracts for purchases of material in the name of the corporation, appointed officers for it, superintended the construction
of the road, and was recognized by the board of directors as
in authority and control of the construction of the road,

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Petitions for Rehearing.

although he, as yet, had no contract with the company therefor. And during the same period he prepared and caused to
be passed the resolution of the directors of October 29, 1881,
authorizing the mortgage and bonds, and prepared the mortgage and bonds; and by reason of his control he procured the
de.livery of the million dollars of the bonds to himself.
As to the 2d point, the bonds in suit represent, not only the
money paid for the Chicago and Block Coal road, the money
paid by Drexel, MJorgan & Co., and the money paid by Crawford, but also, it is submitted by your petitioners, represent
the indebtedness due to your petitioners and other creditors of
said company, who furnished material and did labor, amounting in the aggregate to over $200,000.
The fourth condition in the memorandum delivered by Foster to Crabford's representative along with the million dollars
of bonds, provided that out of the proceeds of such bonds,
Crawford should furnish the necessary amount of money to
pay the debts contracted since the 1st of July, iSS1, and to
complete the grading and superstructure, and to finish and
equip the line of road from the junction with the Air Line
road to Attica, being the line of road upon which the material
and labor of your petitioners was expended. Your petitioners, therefore, respectfully submit that even upon the
principle that the bonds were valid, they were placed in said
Crawford's hands in trust for the very purpose of paying to
your petitioners and other creditors the moneys now due
them.
_ftk. They further aver that there is manifest error in
the judgment and opinion of this court in this: In holding
that the decree of the Circuit Court, which directed payment
out of the proceeds of the railroad property to your petitioners on account of their just debts against the corporation, in
preference to the bonds held by the appellant, should be reversed, and that petitioners should receive no part of such
proceeds, because the appellant succeeded to the equities of
Drexel, Morgan & Co., and Dull & McCormick, held by this
court, in the opinion, to have been pledgees in good faith.
Whereas, your petitioners submit, as herein above suggested,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Petitions for.Rehearing.

that appellant is the representative of Henry Crawford, and
his, assignee with notice, the First National Bank of Chicago,
and that this controversy should be treated as one between
* Henry Crawford and your petitioners. In such view of the
-case, your petitioners submit, that, as Henry Crawford, by his
, construction contract with the corporation, had agreed .to
build the railroad in question, as a condition and consideration
for receiving any bonds whatsoever, he should furnish the
material and the labor, and pay therefor; and that your petitioners, as against said Cr'awford and his assignee with -notice,
said bank, have a prior equity and lien upon the proceeds
derived from the sale of said railroad property to the said
Cravford and said bank.
Bmth. They further aver that there is manifest error in the
opinion and judgment of this court in this: In holding and
decreeing that petitioners can have no part of the proceeds of
the railroad property in payment of their claims for its construction, and the securities representing which were owned
by Henry Crawford, who employed these petitioners to furnish
labor and material used in such construction, and who, after
making the two successive pledges to Dull & McCormick and
Drexel, 'Morgan & Co., of such securities, finally sold them to
appellant under a written agreement of sale, by the terms of
which all the purchase money - after the payment of. the
amount for which they were pledged - was to be held by
appellant (to an amount exceeding $300,000) to abide the 'adjudication of the court, as to whether .such proceeds should be
paid to said Crawford or to these petitioners and other creditors of the railroad company. And your petitioners humbly
submit that in this controversy over the moneys in question,
they have a prior.equity to said Crawford, for the building of
whose railroad they furnished their material and labor; and
that this prior equity exists in their favor, not only by the
principles of courts of equity, (which look through the forms,
to the substance of things 'done,) but rests upon natural justice.
eventh. They further aver that there is manifest error in
the opinion and judgment of this court in this: In holding

PORTER v.. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.

.273

Petitions for Rehearing.

that it does not lie in the mouths of these petitioners to raise
the objection as to the absence of a legal board of directors,
because, if, as held by the court, the mortgages and bonds are
invalid for want of such legal board, and for want of the legal
existence of the corporation, the contracts of these petitioners
are invalid for the same reason, and the consolidation with the
Chicago and Block Coal Company's road would be void,, and
that road would be freed from all debts incurred by the Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company; whereas your
,petitioners show:
1st. That they were strangers to the Chicago and Great
Southern Railway Company, and dealt with it at arni's-length.
2d. That the respective amounts decreed to them by the
Circuit Court was upon evidence of what the labor and materials furnished by them -and which actually went into' the
construction of the road, and of which appellant and Henry
Crawford got the benefit-werd reasonably worth, regardless
of any contracts with the company therefor, and as upon a
quantum meruit.
3d. That every person to whose possession said bonds came,
either as owners, pledgees, or purchasers, knew that a majority of the members of the board of directors were not the
owners of any capital stock of said railway company, for the
reason that each one of them -Dull & McCormick, Drexel,
Mf organ & Co., and appellant- as stated in the opinion of the
court, successively contracted in writing for every share of
stock of the corporation along with the bonds; and every
share of stock, save four, and said bonds, were successively
delivered to them respectively. Wherefore your petitioners
submit that whilst they were each dealing with said corporation in good faith, without knowledge that a majority of its
board of directors held no stock in the company, and that
Henry Crawford dominated and controlled the corporation,
the several holders of the bonds had such knowledge, and were
not, nor were any of them, innocent holders of said bonds in
good faith.
Wherefore, your petitioners respectfully pray that a rehearing in this cause may be granted and such further order and
VOL. CXMf-18 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petitions for Rehearing.

decree made as to your Honors shall seem, meet. And your
petitioners will ever pray, &c.
The Cleveland Rolling Mill Co. fied the following petition:
And your petitioner, The Cleveland Rolling Mill-Company,'
severally petitions for a rehearing of said cause, and of the
judgment -and, opinion rendered therein against it; and as
grounds for such rehearing, states:
First. Your petitioner avers that there is manifest error in
the opinion and judgment of this court in the above cause of
your petitioner, in this : In finding, as a fact in said cause,
against your petitioner, that it-knowingly received, on account
of its claim, money, which came directly from Drexel, Morgan
& Co., as a result of the pledge of the bonds to them. Ana
your petitioner states that the only evidence in said cause
to that effect was introduced by said appellant, and was the
testimony of Henry Crawford, who testified that he told
your petitioner's president, William Chisholm, in the banking.
office of Drexel, Morgan & Co. in the city of New York,
whilst he was negotiating for the loan from them, just exactly
what his business there was, and the full and precise nature 'of
it. But said Chisholm testified that whilst he did meet said
Crawford at that place, that said Crawford only told him,
Chisholm, that he was negotiating with Drexel, Morgan & Co.
to get money to pay the indebtedness due to your petitioner,
but that he, said Crawford, did- not refer to any negotiation
on the pledge of the bonds of said railway company in any
way whatsoever., And your petitioners submit that, under the
facts in the record in this cause, and without any reference to
the credibility of the two witnesses, inasmuch as no evidence
whatever has been introduced, showing that your petitioner,
or any of its officers or agents knew anything about the construction contract between said Crawford and the railway
company, and that the testimony of said Crawford was introduced by the appellant, by way of estoppel upon your petitioner, that under the rules'1f courts of equity the testimony
of one witness affirming the 'fact, and the other denying the
same, such fact was not proven, and that the whole record
shows that such was not the truth.

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Petitions for Rehearing.

Second. It further avers that there is manifest error in the
opinion and judgment of this court in this: In holding that
the -lien of the. bonds of appellant upon the proceeds of the
sale of said railroad property is superior to the claim of your
petitioner, for the just indebtedness due to it. And your
petitioner shows that its indebtedness had wholly accrued on
the 5th of December 1881; and that the first million of dollars of bonds delivered to Henry Crawford were not delivered
until after that time; that at the time the bonds were so delivered, in the latter part of. December, 1881, to said Crawford, he, by his own testimony had bedn furnishing money and
making ontracts for -material and labor for the construction
of the road, without any contract for repayment thereof with
the company. As stated by him under oath, when being examined as a witness for appellant:
"I went on and furnished the money at first, simply because I was acting under the impression that I practically
owned that piece of property, and while I was not formally in
control of it, yet that whenever I desired to control it, that
the control was obtainable."
And your petitioner submits that under such circumstances,
the said Crawford had no right in equity to obtain a first lien
upon said railroad property, by procuring the bonds, secured
by mortgage thereon, as against your petitioner's just claims
against said railroad company.
:Third. Your petitioner avers that there is manifest error in
the judgment and opinion of this court in decreeing that your
petitioner shall not be allowed any part of the proceeds derived from the sale of said railroad property, in this: That by
the memorandum agreement between the said railway company and Henry Crawford, as to applying proceeds of the issue
of the million dollars of bonds delivered to said Crawford's
representative by William Foster, as president of said railroad
company, in the fourth clause thereof, it was provided, that
said Crawford should furnish the necessary amount of money
to pay the debts contracted since the .first of July, 1881, included in which, was the debt due your petitioner, and unpaid
at that time.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Petitions for Rehearing.

Wherefore your petitioner huiubly prays this court that a
rehearing may be granted to it of the judgment and opinion
of this court, pronounced against it, and that it may have such
further. and other relief as to your Honors shall seem meet.
Volney ,Q. Irwin also fied the following separate petition:
And your petitioner, Volney Q. Irwin, severally petitions
the court for a rehearing of the judgment and opinion rendered against him by this court in the above cause, and as
grounds for such rehearing respectfully shows:
First. Your petitioner avers that there is manifest error in
the opinion and decree of this court in the above cause in this:
In holding that your petitioner had no lien upon the said railroad property, nor upon the proceeds of the sale thereof, for
the reason that the mortgages securing said bonds were valid
liens thereon, as against your petitioner, for the reasons and
because of the facts as stated in said opinion. But your petitioner respectfully shows that he had a special ground of lien
for the amount of his claim against the said railroad property
prior to. the mortgages thereon, the facts of which are not
stated in the opinion filed herein, nor any specific judgment or
conclusion of the court given thereon, in said opinion.
That your petitioner,- by virtue of the lien laws of the state
of Indiana, recovered a judgment for the amount of his said
claim against said railway company, which is admitted to have
been prior to the lien of said mortgages. That by virtue of
said judgment and lien a sale of a section of said railroad, extending through the county where said judgment was rendered, was made for the sum of 8500, from which redemption
.was attempted to be made, by John C. New, trustee in the
mortgages; and your petitioner claimed in the brief filed by
his counsel in this case, that said redemption did not destroy
the lien of his judgment, at least for the said amount of over.
$11,000: 1st. Because the redemption laws of the state of Indiana were wholly inapplicable to such a case; and 2d, that
John C. New, the trustee in said mortgage (who attempted to
redeem from said judgment) never complied with the redemption law of Indiana so as to destroy the lien of your petitioner.

PORTER v. P1TT$BURG STEEL CO.

277

Petitions for Rehearing.

And your petitioner respectfully submits to the court that
his said judgment was and continued to- be a lien upon said
railroad, prior to the lien of said mortgages, securing the bonds
of said appellant, and that he was and is entitled, by reason
thereof, to be paid the amount of his said claim, as decreed by
the Circuit Court.
Wherefore your petitioner humbly prays this Honorable
Court that a rehearing of said cause, as against him, may be
had, and that such other order or decree may be made therein
as to your Honors shall seem meet.
The Pittsburg Bessemer SteeI Company (Limited) also filed
the following separate petition:
And your petitioner, the Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Company (Limited), for itself, separately, petitions this Honorable
Court for a rehearing of the judgment which has been entered
by this court against it in this cause, as contained in the opinion filed herein, and for a rehearing of said cause as to it; and
it states the following special grounds for such rehearing':
First. Your petitioner submits that there is manifest error
in the opinion and decree of this court in the above cause in
this: In deciding and holding that said cause should be reversed as to your petitioner fok err;r of the Circuit Court contained in the sixth paragraph of the interlocutory decree of
the Circuit Court of February 16, 1886; whereas your petitio.ner maintains and submits, that, under the issue made by
the intervening petition of your petitioner and the evidence
relative thereto in the recbrd, the final decree of the Circuit
Court of October 9, 1886, was as to your petitioner a just and
proper decree, free from error and in consonance with all legal,
and equitable principles.
Second. Your petitioner submits that there is manifest error
in the opinion and decree of this court in the above cause in
this: In deciding and holding that the principles and rules
stated in the opinion of the court are controlling in respect of
the issues and grounds upon which your petitioner claimed and
insisted that there are, in the above cause, special equities resting with your petitioner in virtue of which it was entitled to

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Petitions for lRehearing.

preference of payment out of the fund in the registry of the
Circuit Court, whereas your petitioner maintains and submits
that irrespective of the validity of the mortgage and bonds of
the Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company, and conceding the fact that the appellant, Henry H. Porter, was a
bona fide purchaser of said, bonds for value, and the further
fact that said mortgage and bonds were executed, and said mortgage was recorded and $1,000,000 of said bonds were issued
before your petitioner's contract for the sale of rails to said
railway company was consummated, and the further fact
that the railroad of said railw~ay company was in process of
constructioh at the time 'of the consummation of said -contract for the sale of said rails, still said Henry H. Porter, as
mortgagee, took and held a lien under said mortgage upon
the rails sold by your petitioner to said railway company, that
was subordinate and junior to the lien of your petitioner
thereon, which was secured by the retention of physical possession of said rails by your petitioner, until without its consent
or knowledge, said physical possession of said rails was fraudu:
lently taken from it by said railway company, and your petitioner's said lien should in equity be preserved and protected.
Wherefore, your petitioner respectfully prays that as to it
a rehearing in this cause may be granted, and such further
order and decree made as to yourHonors shall seem meet.
The Smith Bridge Company also filed the following petition:
Your petitioner, the Smith Bridge Company, for itself,
separately, petitions this Honorable Court for a rehearing of
the judgment which has been entered, in this cause as contained in the opinion filed herein, and for a rehearing of said
cause as to it; and it states the following grounds for such rehearing:
That in its intervening petition, filed in this cause in the
Circuit Court, no issue was made in regard to the validity of
the bonds held by the complainant Porter, nor were the said
bonds in any manner contested by your petitioner in its petition, but your petitioner has relied solely upon the special
equities of its claim. And your petitioner may now concede

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Petitions for Rehearing.

that the opinion and decree of this court, as announced, is
correct, so far as it holds that said appellant's bonds are valid;
-and still your petitioner avers that in holding that said appellant's bonds are prior and superior to the equity of your
petitioner's lien, there is manifest error in said opinion and
decree, for the following reasons:
First. Your petitioner avers that there never was any delivery of the said bridges or bridge material by your petitioner
to said Chicago and. Great Southern Railroad Company. The
contract between your petitioner and said railroad company.
required the bridges to be completed where they now stand;
and that upon completion your petitioner was to retain the
possession and title until payment was made in full. The evidence (p. 823) shows that your petitioner has never consented
to any delivery. And your petitioner, therefore, avers' that
in holding said bonds of appellant to be a prior lien on said
bridges to the claims of your petitioner, there is manifest
error.
Second. Your petitioner avers that at the time the appellant, Porter, purchased said bonds, and long prior thereto, he
had full knowledge and notice of your petitioner's equities
under said contract and lien; and that the First National
Bank of Chicago likewise had such knowledge and notice.
(Evidence, pages 911, 925, 926.) And your petitioner therefore avers that there is error in the decree of this court in
holding that said Porter was an innocent holder of said bonds
as against your petitioner's claim.
Third. Your petitioner avers that the syndicate agreement,
so called, by which the appellant, Porter, became the purchaser and owner of said bonds, recognized the equities of
your petitioner's claim, and especially provided for its payment (Record, page 912); that the Circuit Court having found
that your petitioner's claim was paramount and prior to said
bonds, the provisions of said syndicate agreement for the payment of your petitioner's claim then became operative, and
conclusive. And your petitioner avers that there is error in
the decree of this court in holding that the said bonds in the
hands of said Porter are a superior lien to your petitioner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

claim, notwithstanding the provisions of said agreement to
pay the same.
Fourth. -There is error in said opinion and decree in holding that your petitioner had any knowledge of the loan from
Drexel, Morgan & Co.; or knew that they'were receiving
money obtained from a pledge. of the bonds to Drexel, Morgan & Co.
Wherefore, your petitioner respectfully prays that as to it
a rehearing in. this cause may be granted, and such further
order and decree made as to your Honors shall seem meet.
And your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
Briefs in support of these petitions were filed by the following counsel.
and 1r.
HIad rW,
Xr. J. S. Coor, r. A. C.
for all the petitioners.

. IT CaZki

Mr. E. W. Tolerton for. the Smith Bridge Company.
]MR. JUsTIcE

BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees in this case petition for a rehearing. The, case
was decided at the present term, and is reported in 120 U. S.
649. The application for a rehearing covers all the grounds
discussed in the opinion of thiacourt, and others which, though
not touched upoi in the opinion, were fully considered by the
court in arriving at its judgment. Upon all the questions covered by the opinion we adhere to our conclusions, and we see
nothing in the special grounds taken in regard to the cases 6f
some of the appellees to warrant a different result from that
arrived at on the former hearing. It is proper, however, to
notice two of the grounds urged in respect to two of the appellees.
The appellee Irwin claims that, by virtue of the lien laws of
the state of Indian'a he recovered a judgment for the amount
of his claim against the railway company, which became a lien
prior to the lien of the mortgages, and that, notwithstanding
an attempted redemption bk John C. lNew, the trustee in the

PORTER1

v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgages, the lien 6f the judgment remained good (1) because
the redemption laws of the state of Indiana did not apply to
the case; and (2) because New did not comply- with such laws
in regard to redemption, in such manner as to destroy the lien
.of the judgment. It is contended on the part of Irwin, that
the Indiana statute does not authorize a.redemption from a
sale of railroad property; that New had no lien on the property sold; and that a redemption redeems simply from the sale
and does not discharge the property from the lien, but only
p6stpones any balance remaining d-fe on the lien to the amount
paid for redemption.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Warren County, made in
April, 1884, in the suit to foreclose the lien, brought by Irwin,
forecloses the lien for $11,8157, as a lien on the line of the
railvay for a certain distance in Warren County. in June,
1884, execution was issued for a sale, and on the 12th of July,
1884, the property was sold by the sheriff to Irwin for $500,
and a certificate of purchase was issued to Irwin, stating that
he would be entitled to P deed of the property in fee simple in
one year from the 12th of .July, 1884, if the same should not
be redeemed by the defendant,-r any other person entitled
thereto, paying the purchase money, with interest at eight per
cent per annum, before the expiration of the one year. On
the 10th of July, 1885, and within the year, New, as trustee
in the mortgages, paid to the clerk of the Circuit Court
$539.78, in redemption of the property so sold, that being the
amount .necessary at that date to redeem the property.
It is very clear, that, by the sale of the property on the execution, the lien of Irwin upon the property was exhausted, as
a lien superior to the mortgages, upon that part of the railway
which was covered by such superior lien. The property redeemed by New was the property sold under the decree in
favor of Irwin. The redbmption by New did not have the
effect to restore the lien of the decree upon the property sold
and redeemed. The redemption was not made by the judgment debtor, so as to vacate the sale and reinstate the lien for
the balance of the judgment which the purchase money of the
sale did not pay. The redemption was made by another and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

a subsequent lien holder, who redeemed for his own benefit and
the benefit of those for whom he was trustee, and not for .the
benefit of Irwin.
This we understand to be the meaning and effect of thestatute of Indiana in regard to redemption. Rev. Stat. of
Indiana of 1881, §§ 770 to 776. We are not referred to any
decisions of the courts of Indiana, giving any other construction to these provisions. Section 77- gives the right to redeem
to a person having a lien otherwise than by judgment. The
statute gives no right to Irwin to - redeem from New. The
sale of the property on the foreclosure of the mortgages given
to New, subsequently to the redemption by New, conveyed
the redeemed property to its purchaser on the sale, free and
discharged from the lien under the decree in favor of Irwin,
on which the sale redeemed from was made, and -none of the
proceeds of the sale on the foreclosure of the mortgages given
to New can be applied to pay the unpaid portion of Irwin's
decree. If the grading, embankment and excavation done by
Irwin was subject to a sale on execution under his judgment,
the redemption law applies to the case, and was complied with
by New.
It is claimed on behalf of the Smith Bridge Company, that
the contracts between it and the railway company, for the
construction of the bridges, provided that the bridges should
remain the property of the Smith Bridge Company until the
contract price for them should have been fully paid, and that,
in default of such payment, the Smith Bridge Company should
have the right to remove the bridges and bridge material;
that the mortgages became a lien on the bridges only as the
bridges became the rightful and legal property of the railway
company; that Porter, before he purchased the bonds, had
notice of the equities of the Smith Bridge Company growing
out of their contracts; and that the First National Bank of
Chicago had like notice before it acquired any interest in the
bonds. The contracts of the Smith Bridge Company were
made in October, 1882, and in July, 1883. The bonds were
pledged to Dull & kMbOorriick in Janury, 1882, and. passed
from them to Drexel.M organ & Co., in January, 1883. The

PORTER v. PITTSBURG STEEL CO.

283

Opinion of the Court.

bridges became a part of the permanent structure of the railroad, as much so as the rails laid upon the bridges or upon the
railroad outside of the bridges. Whatever is the rule applicable to locomotives and cars, and loose property susceptible of
separate ownership and of separate liens, and to real estate
not used for railroad purposes, as to their being unaffected by
a prior mortgage given by a railroad company, covering after
acquired property, it is well settled, in the decisions of this
court, that rails and other articles which bebome affixed to and
a part of a railroad covered by a prior mortgage, will be held
by the lien of such mortgage in favor of bona fde creditors,
as against any contract between the furnisher of the property
and the railroad company, containing stipulations like those in
the contracts in the present case. -Dunham v. Railway Co.,
1 Wall. 254; Galveston aiiroad v..Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459,
480, 482; United States v. -ew Orleans Railroad, 12 Wall.
.362, 365; -Dillon v. Barnard,21 Wall. 430, 440; Fosdick v.
Schall, 99 U. S.235, 251.
In regard to the alleged notice to Porter and to the First
National Bank of Chicago, no such notice was given until
after Dull & McCormick, and Drexel, Morgan & Co. had
acquired their rights as bona fide holders of the bonds;
and Porter, by purchasing the bonds from Drexel, Morgan &Co., acquired -all their rights and those of Dull & McCormick, as shown in the former opinion, and those rights were
free in their hands from any notice of any claim of the Smith
Bridge Company. Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 -U. S. 104,
109; .fontclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147.
An error was committed in the former opinion, p. 657; in
stating that each of the five appellees knew of the pledge of
the bonds to Drexel, Morgan & Co. for the loan, and knew
that they were getting a part of the money loaned by Drexel,
Morgan & Co. This was not true in regard to all of the five
appellees, but was true in regard to only some of them. The
error does not affect the result on the merits.
The applicationfor a rehearingis denied

