PAXTON v. GRISWOLD.
Citations for Defendants in Error.

PAXTON v. GRISWOLD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
EASTER1TT

DISTRICT OF

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

PENN1SYLVANIA.

Argued May 5, 6, 1887. -Decded

May 27, 1S87.

In Pennsylvania a private survey cannot be received in evidence for the
purpose of making out a title from the proprietaries, even though it may
have been referred to in other surveys; and parol and circumstantial
evidence is inadmissible to establish such a survey.
The non-return of a survey to the land office in Pennsylvania for one hundred and thirty years is proof of abandonment.
The rules adopted in the land office in Pennsylvania in 1765 made no alteration as to returns of surveys, which before that date, were required to
be returned to the laud office, in order that it might appear by the records of that office what lands were alienated, and what not.
In Pennsylvania, unless a survey is returned to the land office in a reasonable time, which time has been fed by the courts of that state at seven

yfears, it is regarded as abandoned.
EJEmET. Verdict for plaintiffs, and judgment on the
verdict. Defendants sued out this writ of error. The. case is
stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. SamueZ Hepburn, Jr'., for plaintiffs in error, cited: -Me1iZinzie v. Crow, 2 Binney, 105; Lanman v. TJtomas, 4 Bmney,
51, 59; Boyles v. Johnston, 6 Binney, 125 ; Lilly. v. Paschal,
2 S. & R. 394, 398; W atson v. Gilday, 11 S. & .R. 33;; 340;
Biddle v. Dougal, 5 Binney, 142, 152; Boyles v. Relley, 10 S.
& R. 214; Gonzalus v. Hoover, 6 S. & R. 118, 125.
-Mr. Samuel H1'epburn, (with whom was _Mfr. James lyam
on the brief,) for defendants in error, cited: _ioc v. Astley,
13 S & R. 382; lc!turtriev. .AcCormick, 3 Penn. (P. & W.)
428, 431; Boland v. Long, 13 Penn. St. 4641; Evzeiry v. kqpencer,
23 Penn. St. 271; .3fanhattan Coal Co. v. q,'ven, 73 Penn. St.
310; Strauch v. Shoernaker, 1 W. & S. 166; .Eellerv. 3Tutz, 5
S. & R. 246; Chambers v. 3!ftlin, 1 Penn. (P. & W.) 74;
Addlemn, v. Masterson, 1 Penn. (P. & W.) 454; Star v.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Bradford, 2 Penn. (P. & W.) 384; Steinmitz v..Logan, 5
Watts, 518; 2JcGowan v. Ah, 53 Penn. St. 84; Woods v.
Galbreath, 2 Yeates, 306; Barton v. Smith, 1 Rawle, 403;
.ifcKinzic v. Crow, 2 Binney, 105; Allen' v. Lyons, 2 Wash.
0. 0. 475; Uket v. Coryell, 5 W. & S. 60; Phillips v. Zere
Run Co., 25 Penn. St. 56; Morrow v. Brenizer,2 Rawle, 185;
Allison v. Wilson, 13 S. & R. 330; Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat.
563; Garver v. 3feNulty, 39 Penn. St. 473; Blair v. .Xfcee,
6 S. & R. 193.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment for 405 acres of land in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, brought by the heirs-at-law of
John Griswold, the defendants in error, against George W.
Paxton and others, plaintiffs in error, to which the defendants
below pleaded not guilty. The cause was tried at Philadelphia
before Judge McKennan, and the jury, by direction of the
court, found a verdict for the plaintiffs below, and judgment
was entered accordingly. That judgment is now before us for
review. The questions of law in the case arise upon a bill of
exceptions taken at the trial, which shows the following proceedings. The plaintiffs, *besides showing by certain depositions, that they-were the heirs-at-law of John Griswold, adduced in evidence, 1st, a warrant granted to him, dated May 23,
1848, for 400 acres of land, adjoining lands surveyed to other
persons named, situate in the townships of Dickinson and
South Middleton, in the county of Cumberland, acknowledging payment for the same to the treasurer of the commonwealth; 2dly, a survey made on said warrant, dated Decembet 26, 1853, containing 405 acres 138 periches, returned into
the land office; 3dly, a patent to John Griswold for the said
land, describing the same according to the plot of the survey;
4thly, the writ of ejectment issued in the cause, for the purpose of proving that the defendants were in possession of the
land claimed m the writ.
The aefendants then made the following offer: A. W arrant
to Thomas Cookson, dated 26th August, 1751; B. Certificate

PAXTON v. GRISWOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

of payment of purchase money by Cookson on 27th August,
1751.
They also offered to prove that a survey was actually made
immediately after the date of the warrant and 1264 acres located upon it.
That this location and survey was known to the- proprietaries, and recognized and approved by their officers.
That a subsequent warrant was issued by the proprietaries,
calling for this location in favor of Cookson.
That this land was assessed for taxes in 1765, in 1770, and
subsequently.
That the same land was conveyed by different deeds and by
various legal proceedings down to the year 1846, when it vested
in Geisse and Kropff, who mortgaged it to the Farmers' and
Mechanics' ]Bank of Philadelphia, to secure part of the purchase money.
That the land was sold on the mortgage on 13th November,
1849, purchased by the said bank, and by them conveyed to
the defendants and those under whom they claim.
That Griswold, under whom plaintiffs claim, was a clerk in
the employ of Geisse and Kropff, and made an application in
1848 for this land, and therein set out that it was for the use
of Geisse and Kropff.
That Griswold left the state immediately after that date,
1848, and never returned, and the title by return of survey
and by patent was completed by the defendants in the name
of Griswold, because it was the custom of the land officer at
that day to issue the patent in the name of the applicant,
Griswold having died in 1860.
This offer was objected to by the plaintiffs, on the following grounds, to wit: That no survey was ever made upon it
by any proof that is adduced before this court in any shape
or form by any official; that the offer does not propose to
show an official survey, or survey made by direction of the.
proprietaries; that any other survey is immaterial and irrelevant in this case; that finding lines of an old survey upon the
ground does not prove that they are made by official authority,
or that they were any more than trespasses upon the land of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the proprietaries; that such a survey unreturned gives no
right to a warrantee under the proprietaries claiming land by
virtue of a warrant issued under the proprietary system; that
under the act of 1784 no more than four hundred acres could
be surveyed upon one warrant, and that a survey made prior
to the act of 1779 was never returned into the land department. Conceding that they had the right to perfect their
title under the act of assembly, they could not have surveyed
or patented under that survey more than 400 acres.
Further, that the defendants cannot set up an equitable title
in this action.
The court admitted A and B; the rest of the offer was rejected.
For the rejection of the rest of their offer, the defendants
excepted.
The defendants then put in evidence (A) the warrant to
Thomas Cookson, which was as follows:
A.
By the Proprietaries. Pennsylvania, ss:
Whereas Thomas Cookson, of the county of Cumnberland,
hath requested that we would grant him to take up one hundred and fifty acres of land on a branch of Yellow Breeches,
in the said county of Cumberland, for which he agrees to pay
to our use at the rate of fifteen pounds ten shillings, current
money of this Province, for one hundred acres, and the yearly
quit-rent of one half-penny sterling for every acre thereof:
These are, therefore, to authorize and require you to survey,
or cause to be surveyed, unto the said Thomas Cookson, at the
place aforesaid, according to the method of townships appointed,-the said quantity of 150 acres, if not already surveyed
or appiopriated, and make return thereof into the secretary's
office in order for further confirmation, for which this shall be
your sufficient warrant. Which survey, in case the said Thomas
Cookson fulfil the above agreement within six months from the
date hereof, shall be valid; otherwise void.
Given under my hand and the seal of the land office, by
virtue of certain powers from the said proprietaries, at Phila-.

PAXTON v. GRISWOLDi
Opinioi of the 'Cowvn

delphia, this twenty-sixth day of August anno Domini one
thousand seven hundred and fifty-oiie.
J'A-Ms HAMLTON.
[Seal.]
To Nicholas Scull, surveyor general.
The defendants also put in evidpuce (B) the following evidence of payment of purchase money by Cookson, to wit:
B.
(Certi&I ed traotfrom -Ledgerof Departmentof Internal Affairs of .Pennyvania.)
Thomas Oookson, Dr.
1751.

Aug. 27. 44. To land ( W. S.)*on Yellow Breeches
creek. ..
. ....
..........

43

1874.-

Aug. 21. 2k1.a's 31 p's pat. to the Mrt. Holly Paper
Cb; at:vo... ..............
....
Contra Cumberland, Cr.
1751.
Aug. 27. 44. By cash ten pounds & ยฃ7 10
.
. 54:

86119

17 10

This being all'the evidence in the case, the court, as before
stated, charged the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiffs for
the land embraced in the warrant, survey, and patent given in
evidence in their behalf ; to which instruction the Oe-fendants
excepted.
It will be perceived that the case turned upon the failure of
the defendants to show that any official survey had ever been
made under the vague and indescriptive warrant granted to
Thomas Cookson, or that any survey had ever been returned
to the land office. Their offer did not propose proof of any
such survey or return, and theyj contended, both at the trim1
and in this court, that no such proof was necessary under warrants granted prior to 1765, provided they could prove, by any
means whatever, that an actual survey had been .made by
somebody, and that it was known to, and recognized by the
proprietaries, in the manner stated in~the offer.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

It is admitted that no case precisely in point can be found in
the books; but it is argued by the counsel of the defendants,
that their title may be supported by the course of practice
pursued by the proprietaries with regard to titles in the
Province in the early part of last century.
We have examined with some diligence the Pennsylvania
reports, especially the cases cited by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, to see if we could find any support for his position, and we have been unable to do so. We can find no case
in which a private survey has been received as having any
efficacy in making out a title, even though it may have been
referred to in other surveys. All the cases have reference to
official surveys. Parol and circumstantial evidence have been
received to establish them, and no others.
The conclusive objection, however, to the title set up by the
plaintiffs in error, is the fact that no survey has eVer been
returned to the land office, though more than one hundred and
thirty years have elapsed since the alleged survey was made.
And, indeed, none could ever have been returned if the survey
was a private one. This great lapse of time, without any
return, and without occupation of the lands, is prbof of abandonment. If taxes were paid on them, it was more than a
hundred years ago. Passing of deeds from one hand to
another, and even recording them, can have no effect on the
question. It seems to us that the case is covered by the decision in Conkiing et al. v. TVestlrooe; 81 Penn. St. (32 P. F.
Smith) 81. In that case, the defendants set up title in part of
the lands under a descriptive warrant to one Kellam, dated in
1793, but no survey made or returned until 1851, a lapse of
fifty-eight years; and for another part, tihey claimed under an
indescriptive application of one Shaler, made in 1768, but no
survey made or returned on it until 1851, a lapse of over
eighty years. Evidence was offered by the defendants to show
that Kellam had claimed to be owner of the lands for thirty
years, and had exercised acts of ownership by cutting timber
on them; that the lands were assessed to him on the assessment list from 1842, and he paid taxes thereon; that the lines
of the Kellam tract had marks as far back as seventy years,

PAXTON v. GRISWOLD.
Opinion of the Court,

and those of the Shaler tract as far back as forty years; but
there was no evidence to show who made the marks, or that
a deputy surveyor ever made an official survey of either tract,
until 1851. Tlle court held that the defendants and those
under whom they claimed having for so long a time neglected
to have these surveys made and returned, and the plaintiff's
title having in the meantime intervened, the law presumed an
abandonment; and the court directed the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
unanimously sustained this ruling.
It will be observed that the inception of one of these titles
went back to 1768. .The counsel for the plaintiffs in error
contends, however, that a great change took place in the rules
and practice of the land office in 1765, and that the case of
Conkling v. Westbrook does not rule the present case, because
the title of his clients originated in 1751, before the establishment of the new rules, and not subject to them. But an
examination of the rules adopted in 1765 shows that they
related principally to the adoption of a new mode of procuring titles, by a simple application, without a warrant, and
without payment until the survey was returned; but they
made no alteration in the practice of requiring returns of surveys, though they established new sanctions for the enforcement thereof. It had always been the rule that surveys
should be returned to the land office, in order that it might
appear by the records of that office what lands wei'e alienated
and what not. And although indulgence was exercised
towards those who had procured their lands to be regularly
surveyed and had paid for them, and they were held to have
title from the time of such survey, and even from the time of
their warrants when descriptive, so as to maintain ejectment
thereon; yet, as against the proprietaries, and, after them, the
state, the title was only an equitable one. The duty of having. the surveys returned was always the same and the manifest inconvenience of outstanding secret titles led the courts,
in lrocess of the, under the influence of certain statutes
passed after the Revolutionary war, and the manifest dictates
of public policy and convenience, to adopt a rule that a survey

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

would be regarded as abandoned unless returned in a reasonable time. This reasonable time was finally fixed at seven
years. In Chambers v. _Mifflln, 1 Penn. (P. & W.) 74, 78,
where the warrant was dated in April, 1763, and therefore
prior to the new rules of 1765, and where the survey was not
returned until 1797i the Supreme Court of Pennslvania, by
Htuston, Justice, said: "The doctrine of our courts has nGt
been well understood, for when it is said, a precisely descriptive
warrant gives title from its date, a vague one from the time ofsurvey, &c., it is sometimes added, and always understood,
provided it is otherw se folowed up with r'easonable attention.
It i4 not, and never was the law, that on taking out a warrant,
and procuring a survey, and then neglecting or refusing to pay
the surveyor's fees, wlfich was always necessary to procure a
return, that a man could hold the land without attending to
i6 in any way for an indefinite length of time. Although a
warrant has been surveyed, yet if not returned, the owner
mfay change its lines, or change its place altogether and lay it
on any other vacant land anywhere near; until it is returnedthe state has no power to collect arrears of purchase money.
It never can be that a man can wait thirty or forty years, and
all that time be able to say, this is my land if I please, and not
mine unless I please." The court adds: "We have full and
ample provision on this subject by our legislature. The act
of 9th April, 1781, for establishing a land office, provides, in
ยง 9, that all surveys heretofore made shall be returned into
the Surveyor. General's office within nine months, and prescribes a penalty on any deputy surveyor, to whom his fees
shall be paid, who neglects to return." This continued till 5th
April, 1782, when it was enacted, "It shall be lawful for the
Surveyor General of this state to receive returns of such surveys, as shall appear to him to have been faithfully and regularly made, from the said late deputy surveyors, their heirs or
legal representatives, for such further period, as to him shall
seem just and reasonable." After citing other acts passed in
1785, relating to surveys under the act of 1784, but showing
the sense of the legislature on the necessity of a return of survey in due time, and the evils incident on neglect in this par-

PAXTON v. GRISWOLD.
Opinion of the Court.

ticular, the judge proceeds: CCThen came the act of 4th
September, 1793, which provides that 'all, returns of surveys
which have been actually executed since the 4th July, 1776,
by deputy surveyors, while they acted under "legal appointments, shall be received in the land office, although the said
deputy surveyors may happen not to be in office at the time
of the return or returns being made: provided that izo retums
le admitted, that were mace by deyuty surveyors, who have been
more than vine years out of offlce.' This short law is in some
respects obscure when closely examined, but it"
further shows
strongly the sense of the legislature on the subject of keeping
titles in this uncertain and unfinished state. It lays down a
rule which is not easily gotten over by the courts. Independ
ent of this law, who will say that the act of 1782, which
allows returns to be received till such period as the Surveyor
General shall deem just and reasonable, would keep the office
open forever? I am aware that there are cases where plaintiffs
have recovered on surveys not returned since 1793. They will,
however, be found very special cases, where tle owner has
proved great exertions on his part to procure returns, and
fraud or accident in preventing them. I am also aware that
-the owners of many tracts, who have taken possession and
occupied them, or transmitted them to their descendants, have
found no returns in the office. In such cases the land officers
issue orders and have returns made yet, and rightly, for no
injury is done to any one. So, if land has been surveyed, and
no adverse claimant, as improver, or by warrant, has any
claim to the land, returns are received, and may be received,
from the present deputy surveyors; but where, as in the present case, a vague or removed warrant has been surveyed, and
then neglected thirty years, or even a less time, and no excuse
shown, it was not within a 'just and reasonable time' to
receive the return, after another had bought and paid for it,
as derelict." This case was decided in 1829.
The principles of this case were followied up in the subsequent cases of Addleman, v. 3fasterson, 1 Penn. (P. & W.)
454; Star v. Bradford, 2 Penn. (P. & W.) 38-4, 393; and
Strauth v. Shoemaker, 1 W. & S.166. In the last case a "just
voL. cxxl-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

and reasonable time" for the return of a survey was settled
at seven years, as had been suggested in the previous case of
Star v. Bradford.
We think thatthese authorities reach the present case, .notwithstanding the inception of title took place prior to the
year 1765, and that the decision of the Circuit Court whs
right; and it is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

ESTES v. GUNTER.
APPEAL FROM

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF EISSISSIPPI.
Submitted May 3, 1887.- Decided May 27,1887.

In Mississippi an insolvent debtor may make a general assignment of his
property for the benefit of his creditors, with preferences.
A deed by an insolvent debtor in Mississippi to secure sureties on his note
made in advance of, and in contemplation of, a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors Is valid under the laws of that state, although
containing a provision that the grantor shall remain in possession until
the maturity of the note.
A payment by an insolvent debtor of a debt due to his wife, in advance and
in contemplation of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
does not invalidate the subsequent assignment.
The taking of supplies and of money for family use from the store of an
insolvent trader by his wife does not invalidate a general assignment for
the benefit of *creditors, subsequently made.

IN March, 1882, one S. H. Gunter, a merchant who had been
for many years engaged in business at Sardis, in Mississippi,
was largely indebted to the complainants and others; and,
being unable to pay them in full, made a general assignment
of his property of every description, except such as was
exempt from execution, to one S. G. Spain, as trustee, for
their benefit, which was recorded the same day. The assignment preferred certain of the creditors, who were named in a
schedule annexed. Among them were the complainants,
Estes, Doan & Co., merchants at Memphis, in Tennessee. The

