CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

306
1817.
Liter
v.
Green.

(cODIMoIN LAW.

LITER

et al. v; GREEN.

In a writ of right, brotght under the statute of Kentucky, hero the
demandant described his land by metes and bounds, and oountc4
against the tenants jointly; it waS bold that this was matter plenda.,
ble in abatement only, and-that by pleading in bar, the tonants ad.
mitted their joint seisin, 4ipd lst the oppcrtunity of pleading a covO.!
ral tenan'cy.
The tenants cguld pot, in this case, severally plead, in addition to the
rpise, or general issue, that'neiherthe plaintiff,norhisqoceslor,nor
4gny other under or from whom he derived his title to the demanded
pr mises, w&e ever hctually seised or possessed Jterepf, ore( any
partthereof; because it amounted to the general issue, and was a4
applicatibn to the mere disrretion qf the court, which is pot oxtani.
nable upon a writ of error.
Quere, Whether the tenants could plead the miso everally, as to
the several tenements held by them, parcol of the demandaut's promises, withott. qnswering or pleading any thing as to the residue?
Under such pleas, and the replication pr toibed by the statute, the
mise was joined ; the parties proceeded to trial; and the follo lneg
1
o
general verdict was found, vix, "Th jury find that the demandaut
as he bath demanded,
tenenjent,
hold
the
right
to
bath more mere
than the tenants, or either of them, have to hold the respe0tive toneWnents set forth in their respective pleas, they being parcels of the
tenement in the count mentioned." It was held, that this'verdict,
sufficient to sustain 4
being certain to a common intent, w
judgment.
It vas also held that a joint judgment against the tenants for the ceosts,
as well as the land, was correct..

M.larch 8th.

THIs

cause was argued by Mr. Hughes, for the

plaintiffs in error, and by Mr..A.B. Hardin.and Mr,
.fones,.for the defodant in error

OF THE UNITED *STATES.

Mr. Justice

delivered the opinion of the

1817.

This is a writ of right for the recovery of lands
brought in the form prescribed by the statute of Keniucky, in which the demandant described his land by
metes and bounds, and counted against the tenants
jointly. To this count the tenants demurred, and
upon a joinder, the demurrer was overruled by the
court, and upon motion of the tenants, leave was
given to them to withdraw the demurrer, and plead
anew. A motion was then made to the court, by the
tenants, to compel the demandant to count against
them severally, upon the ground that they held separate and distinct tenements, parcels of the land
demanded, which motion was overruled -by the
court. And, in our judgment, this was very properly done, for the matter was pleadable in abatement
only; and by pleading in bar, the tenants admitted
their joint seisin of the freehold, and lost the opportunity to plead a several tenancy. Assuming that
at common law, a writ of right patent may be brought
against divers tenants-, who hold their lands severally, and that the demandant may count against them
severally, it does not follow, that this doctrine applies to a writ of right close; but, if it did, and the
demandant should, in such case, count against tile
tenants jointly, and the tenants should plead to the
merits, 'it would, for all the purposes of the suit, be
an aidmission of the joint tenancy. And the clause
in the statute of Kentucky, requiring, that where several tenements are demanded, the contents, situation, and boundaries of each shall be inserted in tie

Liter

STORY

Court.

V

Green.

308

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
Liter

v.

Green.

count, has not affected this rule. It supposes that
several tenements are held by the same tenants.
The tenants next moved the court to allow them severally to plead, in addition to the mise, or general

Sthe

issue, that neither the plaintiff, nor his ancestor, nor
any other under or from whom he derived his title
to the demanded premises, were ever actually seiscd
or possessed thereof, or of any part thereof; which motion the court refused to grant. And, in our judgment, this was very properly done. In the first place,
this plea was clearly bad, as amounting to the general issue, and, indeed, for other manifest defects : In
tlfe next place, it was an application to the mere discretion of the court, which is not a subject of examination upon a writ of error. The court then permitted the tenants to sever in pleading, and to plead
the mise severally as to several tenements hold
by them, parcel of the demanded premises, without
answering or pleading any thing as to the ,esidue.
Upon the pi opriety of this pleading, we give no o&in.
ion, as it is not assigned for error by the demandant,
and the error, if any, is in favour of the tenants. The
replication prescribed by the act of Kentucky, was
pleaded to the several pleas; and upon the mise so
joined, the parties proceeded to trial.. The court
being divided upon several points made at the trial,
the jury was discharged. At a subsequent term, the
tenants again moved the court for leave to withdraw
the mise joined, and to plead non-tenure as to some,
and several tenancy as to others, in abatement, which
was refused by the court; and in our judgment, for
,the reasons -already stated, was properly refused.

OP THE UNITED STATES,

The cause was then again tried by a jury, who returned a general
verdict for the demandant, which,
"
under the direction of the court, was amended by the
jury, and recorded as follows: "The jury find that
the demandant hath more mere right to hold the
tenement, as he hath demanded, than the tenants, or
either of them, have to hold the respective tenements
set forth in their respective pleas, they being parcels
of the tenement in the count mentioned."
It is objected by the tenants, that this verdict is
insufficient, because it does not contain a several
finding upon the several issues of the tenants, but is
a joint finding against them all; and only by inference and argument a finding of the several issues
for the plaintiff. This objection cannot be sustained.
The verdict expressly and directly affirms the right
of the demandant, and denies the right of the tenants to the land contained in their respective pleas,
the same being parcel of the land demanded. A
verdict, certain to a common intent, is sufficient to
sustain a judgment. At the trial, a bill of exceptions
was taken. The first point in the exceptions is, the refusal of the court, upon the prayer of the counsel for
the tenants, to direct the jury that. the demandant
was not entitled to recover in the suit, upon the proof
by the tenants, that they claimed their several tenements under distinct and several titles. This refusal was perfectly correct; for the matter did not go
to the merits, and could be taken advantage of
only, as. has been already stated, by a plea in abateanent.

1817.
Liter

V.

Green.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Liter

v!

The next exception is, that the court allowed a
copy of the survey of the land claimed by the demandant to go in evidence to the jury, for the purpose of identifying the same. No ground for this
objection has been stated; and it seems to be utterly
untenable.
Another exception is; that the court refused to
allow, as evidence to the jury, to prove that the domandant did not hold the legal title to 2,000 acres
parcel of the land demanded in this suit, the copies of
a certain record of a decree in chancery, in a suit between the demandant and third persons, (with wvhoni
the tenants had no "privity of title or estate,) and,
also, of a deed made in pursuance of such decree,
by which di ed 2.000 acres of the land demanded by
the writ appeared to be conveyed to third persons.
This exception is not now relied on, tnd is-certainly
open to voirious objections. Without adverting to the
objections, that neither the record nor the deed were
properly authenticated, and that it was an attempt
to set up an outstanding title in third persons having
no privity with the tenants; it is decisive againt the
admission, that the 2,000 acres, or any part thereof,
are not shown to be Within the boundaries of the
land claimed by any of the tenants, or put in issuc
between the parties.
The lat exception is, that the court refused to
instruct the jury, that if it should be proved that
divers of the tenants hadbo title to certain parcels
of the demanded premises, but that, they claimed the
same under a third person having the legal title
thereof, ihen, that they ought to find for the said

OF THE UNITED.STATES.

tenants, because they had no title. Thig exception
is, alto, not relied on, and certainly could not be
supported, for it could be given in evidence only on
the plea of non-tenure.
A motion was afterwards made for a new trial,
the proceedings on which, not being matters of error, need not be mentioned.
The only remaining objection, urged as a ground for
reversal, is, that the judgment is a joint judgment
against the tenants for the costs as well as the land.
We. are all of opinion that the judgment is right,
and that the tenants can take nothing by this objecis, therefore, affirmed with.
tion. TheI- judgment
a
costs,
Judgment affirmed?
a.A writ of right patent is al- 3 B1. Com. op. 1. This writ is
ways directed to the loM of the the sole authority for the lord to
mpnor, or his bailiff, and is a com- hold plea of the land in contromission unto them that they should versy; and without it no on9 is
do right. The form of the writ bound to answer in the' lord's
is, "we command you that, with- court. Glan'l , lib. L . ch. 2. ch.
out delay, you do fu rig* 25. It iscalled awrit of rightpa(plenum rectum teneatis) to A., of tent,'because it is an open letter of
B., of one messuage, &c., in L,'
which he claims to hold of you,by
the free service of one penny per
annum for all service, of which
W. of T. deforceth him, and unless you will do this let the sheriff
of, &c., do it, that we may hear
no more clamour thereupon for
want of right. Witness, &c."
-Fit-.XN.Brev. I G. Bracto, lib.
5. ch. 2. p. 328. B,-. Brev. 2.
Glanvillk lib. 12. ch. 3. ch. 4.

request, orcommand given to tho
plaintiff and exposed to full view,
in contradistinotion to writs closo,
which are always closed up and
sealed, or are supposed to be

closed up and sealed, and directed
to particular persons. 2 BL Com.
346. 3 B. Com. 195. 3 ecre'a
Hist. 45. Fit-. ,N. Brev. 1. F.
WVhen the writ of right patent
was brought to the lord's court,
an entry thereof was made in his

1817,
Liter
V.
Groo.

3.12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUrtT

1817.

Liter
V.

Grebn.

court by the steward, and the
Writ was then delivered back to
the plaintiff. Upon the entry a
summons issued from the lord's
court to the tenant, commanding
him to appear at the next court
to answer the plea; and this was
the first process by which the tenant had any knowledge of the
suit. Rast. Ent. 244. 6. Booth.
4. 83, 99. 92. Bracton, lib. 5. ch.
3. s.3. p. 329. Id. ch. 6. p. 333.
On the other hand, a writ of right
close is always directed to the sheriff, and was immediately return,able into the court of common
pleas. Booth, 91. The form of it is,
"The King, to the sheriff of Command A., that be justly, and
"without delay, render unto B. one
raessuage with the appurtenances
'which he claims to be his right
and inheritance, and whereof he
complains that the said A. unjust)y deforces him; and unless he
shall so do, and if the said B. shall
give yo security of prosecuting
his claim, then summon by good
suipmdners the said A., that he
appear before our justices at
Westminster, on, &c., to show
wherefore he hath not done it, and
have you there the summoners
and this writ. Witness, &c."(1)
Reg. Brr. 4. Fitz. J. B. 2 F.
Booth, 91. 3 Mils. 419.
This difference between a writ

of right patent and a writ of right
close, may well warrant a distinction in respect tb the causes of
action to be joined in it. A writ
of right patent, being a mere authority to the lord to take cognizance of the suit at the complaint
of the plaintiff, may well include,
divers tenements held by severul
tenants, whereof the plaintiff is
deforced. Nor are the rights of
the several tenants affected by
such joinder; for, as to them,
the subsequefitsummonsis thofirat
process, (Botho. 4. 99.;) and in
this they are severed, each tenfint
being summoned to answer only
for the tenements held by himself,
And, for this purposo, where the
land is severally hold by several
tenants, the writ alwayr specifien
the 4'uantity of land in the pos.
session of each. Beg. Brev. I b.
The po3ition, therefore, stated by
Fitzherbert, (Jrat. Brev. 2. D.,)
that a writ of right may be brought
against divers tenants who hold
their lands severally, may be good
law when applied (as he applies
it) to a writ of right patent. But
it is not thence to be inferred that'
the same doctrine is to be applied
to all the subsequent proceedings,
and that in the subsequent sum.
mons, process, and pleading, the
tenants are to be joined in the
same manner as if they were joint

(1) It has been very, ntly remarkod by Mr. Sorgesat Williams. In big learoed noto
to 2 Saund. R 43. a, note (1). that r orgeant Wilson is mistaken in sailing the wrlt
or right in Tysen v. Clarke, a Wiffs. 41%5 1, 558, a wrl of YIZbt psafcn, fo
i
ii,
wirit of rilbt doss.

OF THt ONITE1D STATES.
tenants. of the whole lanqd. In certa tes in: judicium deducaturi
fact, the summons in a. writ of de qua debeat tenens respondere,
Sight patent, is a several process ut tunc sciri potsit si totam rein
against each tenant f6r the land petitatwtenuerit, vol ejus partem,
held severally by him; and in this " vel etiam nihil, et sic fiat de pertirespect it is exactly what the nentiis, &c. &c. Et postmodum,
original precept is in a writ of * si qua competat ax ipsa rej ut si
nihil inde teneat vel non nisi ejus
right close.
When once the tenant is sum- partem, et idem de pertinentiis."
moned into court, either upon a Bracdon, ;b. 5., deExcept. c. 1,,
writ of right patent or a writ of fol. 400. "Item cadit breve, si
right close, the same exceptions tenens minus teneat, quam peteng
and pleadings in abatement or in petat, secus tamen si plus teneat."
bar, and the same defence upon Bractaon,fol. 414., bi Abd in anthe merits, equally applies in a sdit other place, speaking of the dbcupon the one as the other. Non- trine that when a vrit is bad in
tenure, joint tenancy, sole tenai- part, it is bad in the whole, he
cy, and sever'al tenancy, are good says,- el curl breve ita in so fuerpleas in abatement, wherever they it vitiosum in aliqua parte, in mul.
apply to any parcel of the land laparte valebit, quantum ad unam
demanded of any particular tenant actionen; secus esset, si plures
or tenants. Bracton, speaking on sint ibi actiones tatione plurium
this subject, says, "tune demum tenentium. Et si unus petat per
videndum an tebens totam rem te- unum breve feodum unius militis
neat quam -petitur, cuim certa in una villa et versus allie in
res dbeat in judicium deduci, vel eodem brevi feodum alterius milisi ejus partem, tune quotam, vel tis eadem villa vel in diversis,
si omnino nihil, et similiter si res quamvis cadat breve do frndn
petit& peftineat 6d jurisdictio- unius militis, nihilominus stabit
nem judicantis ; et ideo petitur de feodo alterius militis versus
visus rei petitm, quia ex hoc com- eundem,quia ibi sunt diversm actipetere poterit.exceptio tenenti, ones propter divorsitates tenemenme sit actio inanis cuin tenente, torum, quamvis breve unicurn.
cum rem restituere non possit vel Item eodem inodo erunt actiones
totan secundum quad petitur." plures.ratione diversarum persoBract. lib. 5. ch.7.foL 376. And narum et reram ubi pfures sunt
he again treats more fully on the tenentes." Bractoan,fol. 41.1., a.
subject in the book, de Excelt- Bracton here manifestly refers to
tionibus, "sunt etiam. quacdam a writ of right patent, where seveqpw visum sequuntur et de qui- ral tenements are demanded in
bus certificari poterit tenens ante- .The writ of several tenants sevequam petens ei visuin fecerit; et rally, and in such case he consit
R
Vor. I:

313
1317.
Liter

v.
Green.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Liter
V.
'Green.

ders, that the writ may abate as tenet inde tantum."
to one and remain as to the other,
not because they may be -joined
in the same action, but because
the suit against them is considered as several actions, (divers= actiones.) In a subsequent place,
the same subject is again mentioned, "Cum autem tenens vigum habuerit vel quodo tantundem
valet scire poterit utrum petenti
respondere teneatur et ad brave
secur vel non teneatur secundum
quod tenuerit totam rem nomino
proprio vel alieno vel nihil indo
tenuerit vel non nisi ejus partem;
quia si totam non tenuerit amittere non pctest quod non habet,
et ita cadit breve sed non actio nisi
ita sit quod petens ostendere pos6it quod tenens teneat in dominito et in servitio, nisi tenens docere possit confrarium, quod nec
in dominico nec in servitio &c.
&c. In hwo quidem actiones per
breve do recto sicut in qua libet
aliaw actione per quam petitur res
corporalis designare oportet petentem quae etqualis sit res quao
petitur, ut si sit res immobilis sicut tenementum designare oportet qualitatem et quaptitatem,
&c. Item utrum tota petatur an
ejus pars, et ne plus petatur u petente quam tenens teneat." Bracton, lib. 5. ch. 27., fol. 431., b.
432., a. Vide also, Id. p. 433., b.
Fleta, lib. 5., ch. s., a. 4., asserts
the same doctrine, 11Item continetur in brevi qui terrain illam
tenet, ad quod excipi poterit quod
fotum non tenet sed alius talis

These qud-

tations have been iho more largo-

ly made from these venerable
writers, with a view to show how
deeply and early these doctrines
are to be found in the rudiments
of tho common law.
It has been very justly observed by Booth (ch. 11. p. 31.) that
in real actions may be pleaded in
abatement of the writ, joint tenancy, solo tenancy, and several
tenancy. And although it is said

that in a writ of nuper obiit, in an
assize, or in any other action
where no land certain is demanded, several tenancy is not pleada-

able, (Bro. Sev. Tenancy, 18.
2 Leon. 8.) yet 'this is to be un-

derstood, that several tenancy is
not pleadable to the writ ; forafter
a plaint in an assize, several tenancy may well be pleaded in
abatement. Stepkin v. Wentworth, Dyer, 244. a. Booth, 34.
277. And several tenancy, if well
pleaded and found true, abates

the whole writ; and the cause as.
signed for this by Fincledon, Ch.
J.. in 41 E'dw. 3. 20. b. is because the tenants cannot answer
Fitzherbert laid
in common.
down the same rule in 27 H/en.
8. 30, and said "coo several tenancy va in aba(emont do tout lo
breve, et si il solt tried versus In
demandant donques tout son breve
abatera, et tous impoitious done
judgement pour lo demanddnt sur
un male breve." Brook's .brid.
Several Tenancy, 1. The same

rule is recognised in Theldall'a

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Dig. ib. 11. di. 31. s. 7. Nor is
there a single case in the books,
in which it has been argued or
held that several tenancy is not
a good plea in abatement to a writ
of right. On the contrary, the reasons for the plea as manifestly apply to this action; as any other
real, action, and the ancient writers who treat on the subject evidently presuppose its legal validity; and the more modern authorities Are conclusive on the point.
When, therefore, the court in the
above case, in allusion to the passage above quoted from Fitzherbert's Natura Brevium, (2. D.)
state that "assuming at common
law a writ of right patent may be
brought against several tenants
who hold their lands severally, and
that the demandant may count
against them severally, it does
not, therefore, follow that this doctrine applies to a writ of right
,cose, " it is manifest that the court
have reference to the different natures of the two writs in their original state; for upon a view and
after a count in a writ of right patent, if several tenements are
3ointly demanded' of several tenants, who are jointly-summoned,
they rmay plead several tenancy
in abatement ot the count or
lands put in view upon the writ.
-Andasa writof right close demands
the tenements directly of the tenants, they may plead several tenancy directly to the writ, for in
a prwcpe quad red,;a it ,sa good

plea to the irriL Coin. Di;. P.
12. Thel. Dig. lib. 5. ch. 3. s. 1.
ch. 4. s. 2. 27 Gen. 8. 20.
In the United Slates all writi of
right are returnable into the commoo law courts of the state, and
are directed to and returnable by
the sheriff or other public officers.
They are, therefore, writs of right
close, and subject to the general
doctrines of the common law alplicable to such writs; and it is
manifest that the doctrine ofFitzherbert, (even supposing it to be
law as to writs of right patent,)
cannot be adinitted to control
those general doctrines, or take
away the right of pleading joint tenancy, sole tenancy, or several tenancy, in abatement of such writs.
Writs of right, since the reign
of Queen Elizabeth, have gradtially become obsolete in England;
or of such rare occurrence, that
the learning respecting them i6
not as well known as it deserves
to be. Indeed, a modern treatise
upon the general nature and structure of real actions, and the proper leanings and evidence in
each, is a desideratum in the
science of jurisprutlence. We
may, however, respectfully refer
those who may be desirous of a
more thorough knowledge of the
writ of right to the title Droit, in
tue great abridgments of Brook.
Fitzherbert, Coinyns, and Viner;
to the learned note of AIr. Serjeant Williams, 2 Saund. Rep..
45. ; to Booth on Real Actions"

Liter
V.
Creep

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

to Reeies's -listory bf the Law;

all, to the venerable Braoton, lib.

to I Reeves'sHis- S., fol. 3 27q ct seq: whore he
tory, oh. 7.; p. 398. el seq: and'3 treats ofthe writ of right and its
Reeves's History, 45., and above incidents.

Sand particularly

Shipp
v.
Dl[iller'a
heirs,

(LOCAL LAW.)

SHIPP et aL v. MLLxR's

heirs.

An error in description is not fatal in an entry if it does not mislead
a subsequent locator. The following entry, "H. M. enters 1681
acres of land on a treasury warrani, No. 6168, adjoining Chapman Aston on the west side, and Israel Christian on the north, beginning at Christian's north west corner, running thence west 200
poles; thence north parallel with Asten's line until an east course
to Aston's linb will include the quantity," was hold valid, although
rio such entry as tl)at referred to could be found in the name of
Aston, 'but the particular description clearly, pointed out an entry
in the name of Chapman Austin, as the"one intended, and this, together with Christian's entry, satisfied the calls of H. M.'s entry.
It is a general rule that when all the calls of an entry cannot be coinplied with, because some are vugue, or, repugnant, the latter may
be rejected or controlled by other material calls, which are consist.
ent and cdrtain. Course and distance yield t6 known, visible, and
definite objects; but they do not yield, unless to calls more material and.equally certain. 'Chapman Austin's entry calling to lie "on
the dividing ridge between Hinkston's fork and the south fork of
Licking, beginning two miles north of Harrdd's lick, at a large buf.
falo road, and running about north ibr quantity," and there being
no buffalo road two miles nort/&of Harrod'slick, (a place of gone.
ral notoriety,) it was determined that a call for a large biTyalo road
might be rejected, and the entry supported by the definite call for
course and distance.
It is a settled rule that where no other ligure is called for in no enry,
it is to be surveyed in a square coincident with the cardinal pointo,

