CASES IN THE SUPREME COURTk
1817.
Beverly
V.
(COMMuON LAW-)

BEVERLY V. BROOKE.
Where the owner of certain slaves, and also part owner of a vessel,
hired the slaves to the master of the vessel to proceed as mariners

on board, on a voyage, at the usual wages, and without any spocial
contract of hiring; held, that the master, having acted with good

faith, was not responsible for the escape of the slaves in a foreign
port, which was one of the contingent termini of the voyage, and,
censequently, within the hazards to which the owner know his pro.
perty might be exposed; although it was doubtful whether tho
master had strictly pursued his orders in going to such port,

ERRoR to the circuit court for the district of Co-

lumbia.
This suit was instituted by the plaintiff in the
circuit court for the county of Alexandria, to reco.
yver thb value of three slaves hired by the plaintiff
to the defendant for a voyagd to some part of Europe in the brig S6phila, of, which the defendant
was master, which slaves escaped from the vessel,
and were lost to the owner. The claim was fbunded on the allegation that the master pursued a different voyage from that for which the slaves were
hi,'ed, and that to this cause was to be ascribed the
loss that had been sustained.
'A. lith,

The cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for tile

plaintiff, and by Mr. Taylor, for the defendant. The
latter cited Pothier on Obligations, part 1, c, 2, art. 3,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

show that the party was only responsible for the
.ordinary results of his fault, unaccompanied with
fraud," and contended that the loss of the slaves was
supnot a necessary consequence of the shipmaster's
-posed misconduct, but was remote and unforeseen.

-to

1817.
Bevcrly'

. Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion Feb.
of the court.
The declaration in this cause states, that the defendant "was master of the brig Sophila, then in the
county of Alexandria, and bound on a voyage from
thence to Savannah, in the state of Georgia, and
from Savannah to New-York, in the state of NewYork, and from thence to such other place or places
as he, the said defendant, might be directed to g6 to
by the owners of the said brig," of whom the plaintiff was one. That believing and expecting the
defendant would pursue the orders he should receive, as was his duty, he hired to him, for the voyage, the slaves in the declaration mentioned.
It appeared in evidence, that these slaves were
received on board the vessel as mariners on the
usual wages, and without any special contract.
.q. So, also, the Napoleon Code,

le cas mdme o& l'ineskution de

liv. 3. tit. 3. Des Contrats et Obligations Conventionnelles. "Le debiteur n'est tenu que des dommages et iotfrets qui ont t6 pr6vus
on qu'on a pu pr6voir lors du contrat, lorsque ce n'est point parson
dol que Pobligation n'est point

. la convention risulte du dol du
d6biteur, los dommages et intrts
no doivent comprendre, - l'dgard
de la perte 6prouvde par le creancier et du gain dont ila t priv6,
que ce qui est une suite inmdiate et directe do Vincxecution
de la convention." Arl. 1151.

zx6cut6e."

Art. 1150.

"Dans

V.

191h.

CASES 'IN THE SUPRABE COURT

102

On the 23d of May, 1809, after the Sophid had

1817.
''-?"

'

sailed from Alexandria to-Savannah, a letter of in-

y. structions was addressed to the master, which contains the following directions: "I hope this -will find

.1rooke.

you arrived at Savannah, and ready to proceed on
your voyage to Amsterdam, where you are to proceed with all despatch; and when you arrive off the
Texel, should you not have rieived information,
either from Messrs. Willinks, or from 'some source
that you can depend upon, that you can enter Holland with safety, you are,to proceed to Tonningen, and
from thence communicate with Jiessrs. Willnics,' and
follow their instrutiois. If they say they cannot get
you admitted to the continent, or can do nothing fot
you, you are then at liberty to take upon yourself
the disposal of the cargo in any'way that may be
practicable, and the ini estment of the proceeds in
any- German goods that may answer our market.'
Should no opportunity offer f6r a sale at Toni)ingen,
or on the coast of Holland, or Denmark, or in the
Baltic, you must then, as a last resort,' proceed to
Liverpool," &c.
'On the 6th.of July, 1809, a letter, containing additional instructions, was written, 6f which the fol,
lowing is an extract: "Nbthing decisive has yet
occurred whereby to judge of the ultimate result
of the pending negotiations between this country
and the powers of the 6ontinent. But hoping, by
the time you arrive in the British channel, all difficulties will be settled between us and the continent,
your owners are still 'desirous, and direct, that you
may prosecute your voyage, as before directed, for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Amsterdam. They are, however, desirous, that be-

fore you Attempt to enter he Texel, you inform

10
1817.

r

Beverl3

V.
y.urself whether the port be blockaded, and
Rache%
after
confiscation
of
danger
any
be
whether there
entering. And should you not be able to get satisfactorv information on these heads at sea, or going
upothe British channel, you will proceed, as.btfore directed, for Tonningen, and from thence communicate
with Messrs. Willinks, of dmsterdam, and JMessrs:
Parish& Co., Hamburgh, and abide by their instruc-"
tions. Should it so turn out th4at you cannot, with
safety, -proceed to Amsterdam, and that you can get
admittance at Tonningen or Iamburgh, you will deliver your cargo at either place to Messrs Parish &
Co. as they may instruct you," &c. "If no admittance
- can be had either at dmsterdam, Hamburgh, or Tonningen, you are then at liberty to do the best you can with
the cargo, as before directed."
Under these instructions the Sophila proceeded
en her voyage, till visited by one of the squadron
which blockaded Amsterdam. Information was
there received showing the danger, from the local
government, of efitering the Texel, and also, that
HIamburgh and Bremen were shut, and that Tonningen had been shut and opened to Americari vessels
several times. The Sophila continued to ply off
and on the mouth of the Texel for four or five days,
with her signals displayed, when the master concluded to run into the Texel, the blockade of which, it
would seem, was not. then intended to exclude neu'tral commerce. In executing this design he was
miet by the schooner Enterprise, an American man

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Beverly

V.

Brooke.

of war, beating out abreast the first buoy of the
The commander of -the schooner sent his
boat to the Sophila with a request that her master
would come on board the Enterprise. The defend-

SHacks.

ant went on board, and continued there near two
hours. On his return, the commander of the Enterprise sent on board the'Sophila a Captain Swaine,
master of an American vessel Which had been captured by a Danish cruizer on a voyage to St. Petersburg, and condemned. Captain Swaine gave to
Captain Brooke, the defendant, a written statement, containing all the information he possessed
respecting the dangers of those seas. He stated
that his vessel was captured on the 4th, and condemned on the 19th of June. That on the 20th,
himself and his men were turned on shore without
assigning to them any cause of capture or condemnation, and without making any provision for them.
His men were compelled to go on board Danish
privateers to avoid starving. He remained himself
at Albourg, until the 17th of July, when he travelled
by land to Amsterdam, and passed within four
miles of Tonningen. The information of Captain
Swaine showed that the seas about the mouths bf the
Eider, the Elbe, and the Weser, swarmed with Danish privateers, who respected no flag, and brought
in every American vessel they could capture. On
the 28th of July he passed through Hamburgh, and
waited on the American consul for a passport, where
he was informed by the chancellor that there were
several Amer'ican vessels at Tonningen pplitioning
for liberty to land their cargoes, which they could

OP .THE UNITED STAtEM.

,not obtain, nor was any attention paid to their peti- 1817.
tions. He received the same information afterwards , -'
Be,erly
v.
at Amsterdam. By the consulate at Hamburgh he
Brooho.
days
few
a
been,
had
was also informed that there
before, some American vessels at Cruxhaven, which
had been ordered by the consul to leave that place
immediately. After receiving this information the
Sophila proceeded to Liverpool, where the slaves
of the plaintiff escaped, and have been totally lost.
Upon this testimony the counsel f r the plaintiff
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they
.believed the evidence, the plaintiff was entitled to
* recover of the defendant the value of the slaves in
-the declaration mentioned. The court refused to
give this instruction, to which refusal the plaifitiff
excepted. A verdict was found for the defendant,
and a judgment rendered thereon by the court,
which judgment isnow before this court on writ of
eiror.
The plaintiff in. error contends, that the circuit
court 'ought to have given the instruction prayed
for, because, 1st. The defendant has violated the
instructions by which he was bound. 2d. Any violation of those instructions subjects him to every
loss sustained in consequence thereof.
Captain Brooke is supposed to have violated his
orders in not proceeding to Tonningen, and waiting
there for the directions of Mesrs. Willinks.
In 3onsidering the instructions given by the
owners of the Sophila, there are extrinsic circumstances which ought not to be entirely overlooked.
The state of the whole comrqrci, world was withVOL. If.

7106-

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817,
erly
Broke.

out example. The then emperor of Fraic exer
cised the most abso1ite despotispi over nearly the
whole- continent of Europe, and at his capricious
wvill destroyed the commerce and seized the proper.
ty of neutrals in the ports of those who were compelled to submit to his influence. Under such circumstances ii is reasonable to suppose that, in commercial expeditions planned from so distant'a placo
'as the United States, some confidenceis placed in
the master of the voyage, and that much must be
left to his discretion. Although this consideration
"will not excuse a disobedience of orders, it is entitled to weight in expounding orders not entirely
decisive. The primary object of the owners ,vas
obviously that the. Sophila should go to Amsterdam,:
Yet this primary object was to be relinquished, if
not to be attained with safety; and of this the mag
ter was the judge.
But the orders are said to direct the master abbolately to proceed to .Tonningen should he decline
entering the Texel.
In the first'letter of the 23d of May, this direction does appear to be positive, but it also appearb
to have been given in the expectation that the voyage from the mouth of the Texel to Tonningen
might be prosecuted without imminent danger, an
with the probability of entering some port on the
continent. Of this probability the Messrs. Willinks
were to judge, should if be in the power of Captain
Brooke to consult them.
The first paragraph of the letter of the 6th of
July repeaw the order to proceed, to Tonninzen,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

102

bhould it be unsafe. to enter the Texel, and thera
12"
f.to communicate with Messrs. Willinks o( Amster- Beverly
.dam, and Messrs. Parish & Co. of Hamburgh, and
v.
to fotlow iheir instructions." The letter then di- Drook.
r'ects the conduct of the master, should he be enabled
to- get admittance ibto Tonningen or Hamburgh,
and proceeds to say, "If no admittance can be had,
either at Amsterdam, Tonningen, or Ham'burgh, you
are then at liberty to do the best you can with the
cargo as before directed."
It is on this last clause in the letter that the diffi,
euliy arises.
The plaintiff contends that the master had uio
.igbt to determine at the mouth of the Texel the
practicability 'of getting into Tonningen or Hamburgh, but was bound to proceed for the former place,
and when there, to govern himself by the directions
.fMessrs. Willinks, or of Messrs. Parish & Co, If
jthis be/ not the true construction of the letter, ie'
-then contends, that the intelligence "received off, tie
mouth of the Texel"dd'not eXcuse the mastbr for
6ailing from that place for Liverpool.
As the first paragraph of that letter contains -an
unconditional order to proceed to Tonningen, should
it.be unsafe to go to Amsterdamn, it is probable that
the owners might found their subsequent orders on
the state of things which might be found to exist
wherithevessel-shbuld arrive at Tonningen, and on.
.the expectation that -the voyage would 'be prosecuted to that place. But' this expectation isnot so
cleearly.expressed as to be free'from doubt- The
writer does not say" it on arriving at Tonningei,

eASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
1817.

Vtance
Beverly.
v.

no admittance can be had," &c.; but, "If no admit

can be had,"&c, These expressions might well
be understood to apply to the- fact, although it
should be communicated before ai'riving at the placol
and to dispense with the necessity of a useless voyagq
to Tonningen. There is the more reason for coming
to this conclusion from the consideration that the
vessel could not arrive at-a place, admittance' into,
which was forbidden. Whether this be the true
construction of the letter or not, the phraseology is
deemed too ambiguous to subject the master to remote damages, not certainly produced by his omitting to proceed to Tonningen, if, in omitting so to
do, he aoted with good faith and a sincere desire to
obey his orders.
This brings us to the information under which he
acted, That information was that Hamburgh was
shut. That Tonningen had been occasionally shut,
and occasionally opened, to American vessels. That,
at the time, the cargoes of thoqe which had been ad.
mitfed, were not allowed to be sold; 'and that the
voyage to Tonningen would be attended with very
-erious hazards, which were probably not contemplated by his owners when they gave their instruc.
tions, If, in such a state of things, the mhster should
be thought to have misconstrued his instructions,
and should be deemed responsible for exercising his
own discretion, the action, founded on stich ulisconstruction, would certainly be a harsh one, The
court will not decide this question, because its decision is rendered unnecessary by the view taken of
he secondpoipt.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2d. Adinitting that the true construction of hia
orders re'quired the master'to proceed to Tonningen,
on finding it unsafe to go to Amsterdam, is he liable
in this action?
The court thinks be i%not. No special contract
is proved, and the slaves of the plaintiffs were put
on board the vessel generally as seamen. The court
is not satisfied that the danger of their escaping
might not be as great on the continent as in England.
But, at any rate, Liverpool was one of the contingent termini o the voyage, and was consequently
within the hazards to which the -plaintiff knew his
property might be exposed. The danger of losing
them, should the Sophila proceed to Liverpool, did
not deter him from placing the slaves on board the
vessel, nor from directing the master to go to Liverpool; or from giving full discretion respecting his
port, in an event which was far from being im.probable.
There is no error, and the judgment is to bo
-affirned, with costs.
Judgment affirm-de'
"b It will he perceived thatthe to which the owner knew his proabove case was detbrmined upon perty might bo exposed, was not
the ground that, whether the mas- liable for the loss. In general, as
ter misconstrued his orders or not, to his obligations to the elhipno special contract of hiring be- owner, the master being a lctter
ing proved, and the slaves being to hire of his care end attention,

put on board generally as,
6ari-

conductor operisfacieAd4 and tho
contract being reciprobally benewhich was one of the contingeni ficial to both parties, noth1bg more
tmini of the voyage, and was, is required of him than ordinarycpaequentdy, within thp hazard4 diligence; and he is only responners, having escaped at a port

Beverly
V.

Drookm.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Beverly
V.

Brooke

"sible "fbr ordinary 'neglect. But
this must be understood, with the
exception of his resnonsilhlity as
a common carrier, and also that
lie is respobsible like any other
condfuctor overis, or ,ven a mancatory, for a degree of skill in
his profession adequate to the per.
forinance of what he undertakes.:
Imparita culpec adnumeratur.
Straccha, de .Nautis, Part3, .No.
32. Casaregs, Disc.23, .No.65.
Disc. 122. .Nos. 1.and 12. Emer I
igon, tom. 1. p. 373. These prinCiples have been recognised by
the tribunate of our own country.
Yi the case of Purvianbe el al. v.
.qngus, the high court uf errors
an appeals of Pennsylvania said,
"*It is a wrong position that a master of a ship is notanswerable for
an error.in judg epnt, but only
-frthe fault of the heart, in civil
matters. Reasonable care, attention, prudence, and P.elity, are
expected froin the master o'a
ship, and if any misfortune or miscbief ensues from the want of
them, either in himself or his
mariners, he is responsible in a
civil action." Per Chief Justice
M'IKEAN. 1 Dall.184. But itis
difficult, if not impossible, to lay
down many eneral rules to enforce the performance, of all the
duties of the master. Targa,sarcasticalLy remarks that it is as
difficult to detect the misfeasance
of ship masters as that of physicians. Son uejti errori. com
quelli che commettono bene spesso i
mfdici, net curare lipoveri infer-

mi. Ch. 70. By the F'rch°d
de Commerce, it is providod that
the responsibility of the mastdr
shqll not be 4isuharged but by
proof of the iptorvention 'ofthe
vie major or irresistible f9y o La
recponsabiliMl du capitainene esra
,vao que par la preuve' d'obstalcles
de,fortie majeure. Liv. 2. fitt 4.
Du Capitaine,art.230. This pro.
vision may, at first sight, appear
to extend unduty the responsibil.
ity of ship mastors, which (except
in their capacity ol'common carriers) ought not to be enlarged
beyond that,of other persons who.
undertake, for a reiard, to perform any worpr. Its insertion in
the Code waq obiected to upon thin
ground by the tribunal of commerce of Paimpol, who renarked
that no-hip master would be found
willing" to incur a responsibility
so 'tremendous as that which a
rigorous application of the literat
expresslo-is of the law might incur. That many accidents happen in navigation which no'human skill can avert, but which
are not to bu considered as the
effects of ihe vis major, and inany
misfortunes which are not to be
attributed to the want of knowledge, the negligence, or the fault
of the master. The tribunal,
therefore, proposed, as an amend.
merit to the article, the addition
of the following words: ou par
Il'etet des aecirn.s oui tienncnt ati4
wsard et Vifraprlvoyance insdpa.
rabic de la navigation etdu eh&.
mage dans lesVor4. But tuip

OF THE UNITED STATES.
:iendment was rejected upon the prix'ciple-of which ought, there.
ground that it would be dangerous
to insert in the code a general
provision of this nature, which
though it might be required in
some cases, would, in others, be
perverted to the. protection of
fraud .an4 negligencer.and the

(coRM05

fore, to be applied bpy
judicial discretiou inevery particular case,
according to its own.peculiar circupntance** IRq ri 'du Code do
CommeUe, war J. G. LocrS. torh
3.,p. 1ei,

87
utc'cou
V.
L"Wp'

LAW~.)

i U'Codx v.Liu i's Administralriz
A. LA.brought an actionof assumpsit in the circuit court, and after Issue
joined, the plaintiff died, and the suit was revived by scirefacima in
the name of his administratrix. While the suit was stilldepending
ne administratrix intermarried with F. A., which marriage was
pleaded puis darrein continuance. Held that the ecirefacia was
-thereupln abated, and a 'new scire facias might be issued to revive
the original suit in the name of F. A. and wife, us the'personal representative of A. L., in ordesto enable her to prosecute the suit
until a final judgment under the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. sec. 31.
Where aWitness, a clerk to the plaintif, swore that the several articles of merchindize contained in the account annexed to his deposition, were sold to the defendant by the plaintiff, and were chmged
in the plaintiff's day-book by the deponent and another person who
is dead, and that the deponent delivered, and further swore, that ho
haa referred to the original entries in the day-book; held, that this
'-wassuScient evidence to prove the sale and delivery of the goodc,

'ERROR

to the circu:t. court for the district of Vir-

ginia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Lee, for the Feb.. 1,t2
plainif iaerror, and by Mr. Swann, for the defendant in error.

