CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Colson
V.

(CH ANCERY-)

Thompson.
CoLsoN v. THoMPsoN.
Bill for the specific- execution of an alleged agreement to convoy to
the plaintiff one third of a certain tract of land in Kontucky, belonging to the defendant, as a compensation for locating and surveying the same. Bill dismissed.
In order to obtain a specific performance of a contract, its terms should
be so precise as that neither party can reasonably misunderstand
them. If the contract be vague and uncertain, or tho'ovidonce to
establish it be insufficient, a court of equity will not enforce it, but
will leave the party to his legal remedy.
The plaintiff, who seeks for the specific performance of an ugreement,
must show that he has performed, or offered to perform, on his part,
the acts which formed the consideration of the alleged undertaking
on the part of the defendant.

APPEAL

from a decree of the circuit court for the

district of Kentucky.
The appellee filed his bill in that court, stating that,
in the year 1779, a number of persons..amongst whom
was the defendant below, who is the appellant in
this court, employed him, the complainant, to locate
lands for them, in the then district of Kentucky ;.that
he received from the defendant certain land warrants
to the amount of 25,000 acres, which he located for
him on the 20th of May, 1780. That the terms on
which he was to do the business were, that the owner
of the warrants should furnish all the money that
should be necessary for locating and's urveyi ng the said
lands. That the complainant -should direct the doing,thereof, and receive, for his compensation, what

OF THE UNITED STATPS.

should be given to other persons for similar services.
The bill then.avers, that the usual proportion which
was then generally given to locators for similar serVices was one third part of the land so located by
thdm. The complainant further alleges, 'that he
ivas prevented from surveying the above entry by
the Indians, who were very troublesome, and who
rendered the execution of such business difficult and
dangerous; that, during this time the defendant procured a survey to be executed of the entry made in
his name by the complainant, and obtained a patent for
the same. The bill admits that the complainant received a sum of money from the defendant, which, however, he charges as paid on account of the expenses
attending the locating and surveying the said entry,
and not as a compensation for his services. The
prayer of the bill is, for a conveyance of one-third part
of the above-mentioned tract of 25,000 acres of land.
It appears by the exhibits in the cause, that the above
entry was surveyed on the 28th October, 1786.
The defendant states in his answer, that previously to hi' employing the complainant to locate and
survey his warrants, he received offers from other
persons to do the business upon the terms stated in
the bill,which he rejected, and that he was induced
to authorize his friend, Mr. Webb, to place the warrants in the complainant's hands, in consequence of
hi .having understood that he would undertake the
business for a fair compensation in money. That
Mr. Peachy, the agent of the defendant, paid io the
complainant upwards of 7,000 pounds of tobacco,
-within a few months after the entry was made. TheVQL. IL

U u

1817.
Coison

V.
Thompson.

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

338

answer farther states, that the defendant freqtiently
to the complainant to, have the entry, which
Colson
he had caused to be made, surveyed; and thal,'after
V,
Thompson. repeated promises to comply with these demands,
made and broken, the complainant conibssed it wvas
not in his power to execute the bilsiness, and, after
claiming the tobacco, which he had received as a
compensation for his servifes, advised- the defendant
to apply to some other person to attend to the surveying of the entry. The defendant owns, that from
the year 1785, when' this advice was given, until
some time after he claimed his grant, he was frequ6ntly in company with the complainant, .who, to
the best of his recollection, never intimated that he
expected to receive any part of the lands', nor was
any such demand ever made by the complainant until the institution of this suit, in 1794.
There was an amended bill filed in this cause, and.
the above answer was, by the agreement of partied,
received as an answer to this bill. The amended
bill states, that the entry of the 2.5,000 acres-of land
was made by the intervention of a Mr. Shelby, al
particular friend of the complainant. Tha't the defendant caused the said entry to be suv'eyed without
consulting the complainant on the subject, although
he avers, that he was always ready and willing, when.
ever he might have been called upon for this purpose,
to show the beginning and other calls of, the entry,
and to give the necessary directions to the surveyor.
The depositions taken in the cause .prove, that at
the ,time when the entry was made, it was usual in
;Kentucky for the locators of lands to receive from
1817.,

Sapplied

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the owners, as a compensation fdr their services, a
proportion of the land •so located, beside the expenses which might be incurred in surveying the land,
which the locator received from the owner in money.
But what that proportion was, is not precisely ascertained by any of the witnesses. They state,
generally, that it was sometimes one-third and sometimes one-half. Mr. Peachy, the agent and attorney in fact of the defendant below, f1rom the year
1780, when.the defendant went to the West-Indies
until his return, 'states, that he had lands located in
Kentucky, for a part of which he alloyv'ed the locator one-fifth, and for the residue one-tenth, of the
land located, as a compensation fur his services, beside paying the expenses of surveying, &c. This
witness farther states, that he never heard or understood, in conversation with the complainint, the defendant, or Mr. Webb, with whom the defendant deposited his .warrants to be delivered to 'the complainant, that the defendant was to give any part of
the land in consideration of locating the same.
The circuit court decreed, that the defendant below should convey to the complairiant one third of
the said tract of 25,000.acres of land, according to
certain.boundaries which had been previously laid
down under an order of that court, from which
decree the defendant appealed.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion of
the court.
In deciding this case w are necessarily led to the
-examination of the following questions: 1. What

339
1817.
Colson

v.
Thompw.

March-l

t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

was the contract between-these parties, the specific

CoI"a"
Colson

execution of which is sought to be enforced by this

V._

bill, and how is it proved ? 2. Has the complainant

ThQUIpsOn, entitled himself to ask foran execution of the con.

tract, in case the same should-be sufficiently proved ?
The amended bill states that the complainant received certain land warrants from the defendant
with instructions to locate the same in Kentucky, but
that no particular stipulation was made respecting
the compensation which he was to receive for his
services, except that the general custom of the country in similar cases, and the general tenor of the coinplainant's contracts with other persons for such services were to furnish the rule of compensation to be
allowed to him. This rule is averred to be one-third
of the land located.
The defendant, in his answer, states, that no contract of any sort was entered into between the complainant and himsel lIe
even denies that he had
any cpnversation with the complainant on this. subject at any time previous to the entry being made.
iUe states that offers were made to him by other
persons to locat6 his warrants on the terms mentioned in the bill, which he rejected, and that, in donsequence of his having understood that the complainant
would do the business for a fair compensation in mo.
ney, lie deposited his warrants with his friend, Mi.
Webb, with, a request that he would engage the
complainant to )ocate them.
The allegations of the bill in relatipn to this con.
tract are wholly unsupported by the dvidence in the
cause; and, on the other hand, the answer, in relation
to this point, is atrongl 7 corroborated by the testi.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mony of Mr. Peachy; by the uncertainty -of the al- 1817.
leged usage as to the proportion of the land to be
V.
allowed to the locator; the improbability that so
Thompsoa.
year
the
as
early
so
made
be
would
contract
a
loos6
1779, when a usage, if any existed, must necessarily
have been recent and unknown, especially to persons
living reinote from Kentucky, at that time wild and
unsettled: and, above all, by the circumstance, that
from the year 1786, when the survey was made, under the direction of another agent, no demand of a
part of the land appears to have been made by the
complainant until the institution of this suit inr the
year 1794.

This defect in the proof would seem to be fatal to
the pretensions of the complainant. The contract
which is sought to be specifically executed ought
not only to be proved, but the terms of it should
be so precise as that neither party could reasonably
misunderstand them. If the contract be vague or
uncertain, or the evidence to establish it be insufficient, a court of equity will not exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to dnforce it, but will leave the
party to his legal remedy.a
a See, as to agreements, the
performance of which will not be
decreed by a court of equity for
want of- cirtairny, the following
eXesF-!Elliotv. Hele,1 Vern.406.,
1 Eq. Cat. A.br., 20. Bromley v.
Jefferies, 2 -Vern. 415. Emery v.
Wase, 5 Ves. 849. But the court
will, if practicable, execute an
uncertain agreementby rendering

ftcertain. Allen v.'l-arding, 2
Eq. Cas. Abr. 17. So an agreemeat to sell at a fair raluatiom,
may be enforced. Emery v.
Wase, 5 Vet. 846. Milnes v.
Gery, 14 Vet. 407. And if the
terms of an agreement are to be
ascertained by an award, being

so ascertained, that agreement
will be enforced in equity, if there

'342
1t817.
Colson
'v.

Thompson.

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT

But if these objections could be surmounted, that
which remains to be considered undner the second
head appears to the court to be conclusive against
the appellee.
. 2d. Has the complainant entitled' himself to ask
for an execution of'the contract if he bad proved it?
It is very obvious, from the complainant's own
showing, that the contract between himself atnd the
defendant, taken in connection with the alleged
usage, was, that the former should not only make the
entry, but should also cause the same to'be surveyed under his direction and superintendance. It was
the entry and the su'rvey which constituted the location. in the contemplation of the.parties, and formed
the rial consideration for which the allowance of a
part of the land to the locator was to be made.
Th,- complainant states, in his bill, that the owner of
the warrants was bound by the usage not only to
make this allowance, but was also to furnish all the
is any thing to be specifically performed; as estates to be conveyed, &c. : but where the parties
have contracted that the value of
their respective interests shall be
nscertained by arbitrators, or an
umpire, if the acts done by the
parties for the purpose of carrying
their agreement into effect by an
award, are not valid at law, as to
the time, manner, or other circBumstances, the agreement cannot be enforced in equity; unless .tbere has been acquiescence, notwithstanding the varl-

ation of circumstances; or the
agreement evidenced by such
award has been part performed.
Blundell v. Brettargh, 17 Ves.
232. And if on~a covenant to
build a house, the transaction is,
in its nature, loose and undefined,
and it is not expressed distinctly
what the building is, so that the
court could describe it as a sut.
ject for the report of the master,
a specific performance will not be
Mlosely v. Virgin, 3
decreed.
Ves. 185. Vide ante, p. 302,
note (d.)

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

tnoney necessaiy for locatihg and surveying the land,
and he endeavours to excuse himself for not having
caused a survey to be made. Now, if the mere
making of the entry amounted to a full performance
of the contract on the part of the locator, any stipulation with the same person for the expenses attending the survey would have been idle and unnecessary. But the evidence of Isaac Shelby, upon this
point, is conclusive. He states, that the usual compensation to a locator 'vas one-third of the land for
locating and directing the survey.
If this, then, be the contract, as alleged by the
complainant himself, in what manner has he performed his part of it? In the first place, the entry wvas
made, not by him, but by Isaac Shelby, under some
agreement which is not disclosed in the bill, nor
proved by. any testimony in the cause. In the next
place, it does not appear that, from the year 1780,
when this entry was made, the complainant made one.
effort to have the entry surveyed; but the defendant) after wasting about 6 years, was compelled to
employ another agent to have that service performed.
How does the complainant excuse himself for the
breach of his contract in this respect? He alleges,
that he was prevented, during all that time by Indian hostility, which rendered it troublesome and
dangerous to make surveys in the part of the country where this; entry was made. This assertion is
not proved by a single witness except Thomas Allen, who deposes, that from 1780 to 1789, he believes it was difficult to get any persons to risk their

1817.

v.
Thompson.

CASES IN THE SUPREMfE COURT

344
1817.
Colson

V.
Thompson.

lives in-making surveys on the Ohib, towards the
r
Bank, except for high
wages, as he has been
informed. Now, even if this witness had positively
proved the point for which he was examined, still

SYellow

his testimo'ny could not avail the complainant, since
he admits, that for high wages men could have been
procured-to perform the service; and those wages,
it was incumbent on the complainant, who claims no
less than between 8 and 9,000 acres of this land, to
pay. The difficulty and expense which would have
attended his endeavours to perform this part of his
contract, afford no excuse for his breach of it, even
if, in a case like this' any excuse could be admitted.
But what is conclusive as to this point is, that the entry was in fact surveyed in i 786, without any danger or difficulty, so far as the record informs us.
The complainant alleges, that he was always ready and willing, whenever he might have been called
upon for that purpose, to show the beginning and
other calls of the entry, and to give the necessary
directions to the surveyor. This allegation is positively denied in the answer, which states, that the
complainant declined making or attending to the
survey, and that he advised the defendant to employ
some other person to do the business.
Thus it appears, that the complainant has failed'
not only to prove the contract stated in the bill, but
also, his performance of those acts which.formed the
conrideration of the alleged promise on the part of
the defendant.

QF THE UNITED STATES.
The decree must therefore b. reversed, and the

bill dismissed with costs.

345
1817.
The

Eleanor.

Decree reversed;

(PRIZE.)

The ELEANOR.

Donnel, claimant.

A-libel against the commander of a squadion calling on him to proceed
to adjudication, or to make restitution in value, of a vessel and cargo, detained for search by the captain of a frigate belonging to the
squadron, and lost while in his possession. Libel dismissed.
The commander of a squadron is liable to individuals for the trespasses of those under his comroand, in case of positive or permissive
orders, or of actual presence and co-operation. But qu4Wre, how
far is he responsible in other caseb.
Where a capturehas actually taken place, with the assent, express or
implied, of the commander of a squadron, the prize master may be
considered as a bailee to the use of the whole squadron, who are
to share in the prize money, and thus the commander may be made
responsible; but not so as to mere trespasses, unattended with a
conversion to the use of the squadron.
The commander of a single ship is responsible for the acts of those
under his command; as are, likewise, the owners of privateers for.
the conduct of the commanders appointed by them.
To Iletain for examination, is a right which a belligerant may exercise over every vessel, except a national vessel, which he meets
with on the ocean.
The principal right necessarily carries with it all the means essential
to its exercise ; among these may, sometimes, be included the assumption of the disguise of a friend or an enemy, which is a lawful
stratagem of war. If, in consequence of the use of this stratagem,
the crew of the vessel detained abaudon their duty before they are
oL. IT.

Xx

