GI§ES IN THE- SUPREME COURT
1817.

Laidlaiv
V.

(LOCAL LAW.Y

Organ.
LAIDLAW

et a]. V. ORGAN.

ERROR to the district court for the Louisiana districf.
The defendant in error filed his petition, or libel,
in the court below, stating, that on the 18th day of
February, 1815, he purchased of the plaintiffs in error one hundred and eleven hogsheads of tobacco,
as appeared by the copy of a bill of parcels annexed, and that the same were delivered to him by the
said Laidlaw & Co., and that he was in the l]awful and
quiet possession of the said tobacco, when, on the 20th
day of the said month, the said Laidlaw & Co., by
force, and of their own wrbng, tok possession of the
same, and unlasfully withheld the same from the petitioner, notwithstanding he was at all times, and still
was, ready to do and perform all things on his part
stipulated to be done and performed in relation to
said purchase, and had actually tendered to the said
Laidlawv & Co. bills of' exchange for the amount of
the purchase money, agreeably to the said contract;
to his damage, &c., Wherefore the petition prayed
that the said Laidlaw & Co. might be cited to-appear
and answer to his plaint, and that judgment, might
be renderad against them for his damages; &c. And
inasmuch as the petitioner did verily believe that the
said one hundred and eleven hogsheads of tobacco
would be removed, concealed, or disposed of by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

saidLaidlaw & Co., he prayed that a writ of sequestration might'issue, and that the same might be sequestered in the hands of the marshal, to abide the
judgment of the court, and that the said one hundred
and eleven hogsheads of tobacco might be finally
adjudged to the petitioner, together with his damagbs, &c., and costs of suit, and that- the petitioner
might have such other and farther relief as to the
court should seem meet, &c.
The bill of parcels referred to in the petition was
in.the following words and figures, to wit:
"Mr. Organ Bo't of Peter Laidlaw & Co. I I I
hhds. Tobacco, weighing 120,715 pounds n't. fr.
$7,544 69.
"New-Orleans, 18th February, 1815."
On the 21st of February, 1815, a pitatiorl to the
said Laidlaw & Co. was issued, and a writ of sequestration, by order of the court, to the marshal, commanding him to sequester 11 hogsheads of tobacco
in their possession, and the same so sequestered to
take into his (the marshal's) possession, and safely
keep, until the farther order of tile court; which
was duly executed by the marshal. And on the 2d
of March, 1815, counsel having been heard in the
case, it was ordered, that the petitioner enter into a
bond or stipulation, with sufficient sureties in the
sum of 1,000 dollars, to the said Laidlaw & Co.,
to inde'pxnify them for the-damages which they might
sustain in consequence of prosecuting the writ of
sequestration granted in ihe case.a
a.Sequestration, in the practice of dicial custody of the res orpersana

thecivil law, is a process to takein- in controversy to abida the event of

1817

i
v.
organ

CASES IN THE SU'REMXE COURT

180
1817.
Laidlaw
v

Organ.

On the 22d of March, 1815, the plaintiffs in error
filed their. answer, stating that they had no property
in the said tobacco claimed by the said petitioner.
or ownership whatever in the same, nor had they
at any time previous to the bringing of' said suit;
but disclaimed all right, title, interest, and claim, to
the said tobacco, the subject of the suit. And on
the same day, Messrs. Boorman & Johnston filed
their bill of interpleader or intervention, stating that
the petitioner having brought his suit, and. filed his
petition, claiming' of the said 'Laidlaw & Co. 111
hogsheads of tobacco, for which he ha obtained a
writ of sequestration, when, in truth, the said tobacco belonged to the said Boorman & Johnston,
the suit. It may be applied to real
or personal property, the right to
which is litigated between the parties; oreven to persons,'as to a married woman,in a cause ofdivorce,in
order to preserve her from ill treatmenton the part of her husband, or
tea minor in order to secure him
from ill treatment by his parents.
Clerke's Prax. Tit. 48. Pothier,
de la PrqcldureCivile, Pattic I,
Chap 3. art. !2. § 1. Code .Ndvolon. Lit. 3. tit. I1., Des DtpOts
et du Seque, Ire. art. 1961. Digest
(f the CiiU laws of Louisiana,419.
The sequestration may be domanded, either in the original petition, or in the progre!s of the
cause at any time before it is set
down for heartby a petition
from the party demanding it,
with notice to the opposite party, on which the 'judge, after

hearing counsel, pronounces his
interlocutory sentence or decree. This sentence is to be provisionally executed notwithstandingan appeal. The sequestration
is usually ordered, in possessory
actions, where the prollmint~ry
proofs of the parties appear to be
nearly balanced ) where an iehoritance consisting of personal of,
fects of great value is in controversy ; where there is ground tI
apprehend that the parties may
resort to personal violence in con,
testing the enjoyment of the
memoo profits ; in actions of partition, where the property in litigation cannot be juictl) enjoyed
by the respective owners; ani
sometimes in cases whore the suit
is likely to be of long duratigo
Pothiar, lb. and § 2.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-and was not the property of the said Laidlaw & Co.,
1317.
and praying that
they,
the said Boorman & Johnston, -Laidlawr
"
might be admitted to defend their right, title, and
V.
claim, to the said tobacco, against the claim and pre- Organ.
tensions of the petitioner, the justice of whose claim,
under the sale as stated in his petition, was wholly
denied, and that the said tobacco might be restored
to them; &c.
On the 20th of April, 1815, the cause was tried
by a jury, who returned the following verdict, to
wit: "The jury find for the plaintiff, for the tobacco
named in the petition, without damages, payable
as per contract." Whereupon the court rendered
judgment "that the plaintiff recover' of the said defendants the said 111 hogsheads of tobacco, mentioned in the plaintiff's petition, and sequestered in
this suit, with his costs of suit to be taxed; and ordered, that the, marshal deliver the said tobacco to
the said plaintiff, and that he have execution for his
costs aforesaid, upon the said plaintiff's depositing
in this court his bills of exchange for the amount of
the "purchase money enlorsed, &c., for the use of
the defendants, agreeably to the verdict of the
jury."
On the 29th of April, 1815, the plaintiffs in error
filed the folloving bill of exceptions, to wit: "Be it
remembered, that on the 20th day of April, in the
year of our Lord, 1815, the above cause came on for
trial before a jury duly sworn and empannelied, the
said Peter Laidlaw & Co. having filed a disclaimer,
and Boorman and Johnston of the city of New-York,
having filed theie claim. And now the said Rector

CASES IN THE SUPRE14E COURT

181.7.
'.V'T'

Laidlaw

V.

Organ

M. Organ -having closed his testimony, the said
claimants, by their counsel, offered Francis Girault,
one of the above firm of Peter Laidlaw & Co., as their
witness; whereupon the counsel for the plaintiff ob.
jected to his being sworn, on the ground of his incompetency. The claimants proved that PeterLaidlaw &
Co., before named, were, ht the date of the transaction
which gave rise to the above suit, commission morchants, and were then known in the city of NewOrleans as such, find that it is invariably the course
of trade in said city -for commission merchants to
make purchases and sales in their own names for
the use of their employers; upon which the clairqants again urged thb propriety of suffering the said
Francis Girault to be sworn, it appearing in eVidence that the contract was made by Organ, the
plaintiff, with said Girault, one of the said firm of
Peter I aidlaw & Co. in their own name, and there
being evidence that factors and commission mherchants do business on their own account as well as
for others, and there being no evidence that the
plaintiff, at the time of the contract, had any knowledge of the existence of any other inteilest in the
said tobacco, except that of the defendants, Peter
Laidlaw & Co. The co.urt sustained the objection,
and rejected the said witness. To which decision
of the court the counsel for the claimants aforesaid
begged leaY6 to except, and prayed that rhis bill of
exceptions might be signed and allowed. 'An' it,
uppearing in evidence in the said cause, that on the
night of thd 18th of February, 1815, Messrs. Livingston, White, and Shepherd brought from the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

183

British fleet the news that a treaty of peace had 1817.
been signdd at Ghent
by the American and British "Laidiae
.6
v.
in a letter from Lord Bacontained
commissioners,
orgm.
in
published
London,
of
thurst to the Lord Mayor
the British newspapers, and that Mr. White caused
the same to be made public in a handbill on Sunday
morning, 8 o'clock, the 19th of February, 1815, and
that the brother of Mr. Shepherd, one of these gentlemen, and who was' interested in one-third of the
profits of the purchase set forth in said plaintiff's
petition, had, on Sunday morning, the 19th of February, 1815, communicated said news to the plaintiff; that the said plaintiff, on receiving said news,
called on Francis Girault, (with whom he had been
bargaining foi" th. tobacco mentioned in the 1etition, the evening previous,) said Francis Girault being one of the said house of trade of Peter Laidlaw
& Co., soon after sunrise on the morning of Sunday,
the 19th of February, 1815, before' he had heard
said news. Said Girault asked if there was any
news which was calculated to enhance the price or
value of the article about to be purchased; and that
the said purchase was then and there made, and the
bill of parcels annexed to the plaintiff's petition delivered to the plaintiff between 8 and 9 o'clock in
the morning of that day ; and' that in consequence
of said news the value of said'article had risen from
30 to 50 per cent. There. being no evidence that
the plaintiff had asserted ev suggested any thing to
the said Girault, calculated tb impose upon himnvith
respect to said news, and to induce him to think or
believe-that it did not exist; and it appearing that

•184

CASES IN THE SuPREME COURT.

the said Girault, when appliod to, on the next day,
1817..
"-a
Monday,
the 20th of February, 1815, on behalf of
Lailaw
for an invoice of said tobacco, did not
the
plaintiff,
V.
-orpan. then object to the said sale, but promised
to deliver
the invoice to the said plaintiff in the course of' the
forenoon of that day ; the court charged the jury to
find for the pf.aintiff. Wherefore, that justice, by
due course of law, may be done in this case, tho
counsel of said defendants, for them, and on their
behalf, prays the. court that this bill of exceptions be
filed, allowed, and certified as the law directs.
DOI,5INicK A. HALL,
(Signed,)
District Judge.
New-Orleans, this 3d day of May, 1815."
On the 29th of April, 1815, a writ of error was
allowed to this court, and on the 3d of May, 1815,
the defendant in error deposited in the court below,
for the use of the plaintiffs in error, the bills of exchange mentioned in the pleadings, according to the
verdict of the jury and the judgment of the court
thereon, which bills were thbreupon taken out of
court by the plaintiffs in error.
Peb. 2

Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the plaintiffs in error.
1. The first question is, whether the sal, under
the circumstances of the case, was a valid sale;
whether fraud, which vitiates every contract, must
be proved by the communication of positive misinformation, or by withholding information when
asked. Suppressiontof material circumstances within the knowledge of the vendee, and not accessible

OP THE UNITED-STA'fE&

to the vendor, is equivalent to frau ,.and .vitiates the
contract-. Pothier, in discussing this subject, adopts
the distinction of th6 forum of conscience, and the
forum of law; but he admits that fides est servanda.!
The parties treated on an unequal footing, as the one
b I'Comynon Coitr.s8. arid the
authorities there cited;
c Potkiir,De J-ente, Nos. 23
to 241. H6 considers this question under the four following
heads. 1st. Whether good faith
Qbliges the vendor, at least inforo
consciz, not only to refrain
front practising any deception,
but also from using any mental
reservation? 2d. What ieserva*
tion binds the paity in the civil
forum, and to what obligations ?
,3d. Whether the vendor is bound,
at least inforo co=cieni&, not to
conceal any circumstances, even
extrinsic, which the vendee has
an interest in knowing? 4th.
Whether the vendor may, inforo
toscienti, sometimes sell at a
price above the true value of the
article. As Pothier's discussion
throws great light on this subject,
a translation of- this part of his
admirable tieatise may not be unacceptable to the reader.
"AnTICLE 1. 233. Although,
in many transactions of civil society, the ries of good faith only
require us to refrain from false*loodand permit us to conceal
from others that which they have
in interest in Imowinar, if we have
Voi,. I.

an equal interest in concealing it
from them; yet, in interested contracts, among which is the contract of sale, good faith not only
forbids the assertion of falsehood, but also all reservation concerning that which the person
with whom we contract has an
interest in knowing, touching
the thing which is the object of
the couttact.
"The reason is that equity and
justice, in these contracts, consists
in equality. It is evident that
any reservation, by one of the
contracting parties, concerning
any circumstance which the other
has an interelt in knowing, touching the object of the contract, is
fatal to this equality: for the moment the one acquires a knowledge of this object superior to the.
other, he has an advantage over the
other in contracting; he knows
better what he is doing than the
other; and, consequently, equality
is no longer found in the contract.
"In applying these principles
to the contract of sale, it follows
that the vendor is obliged to disclose every circumstance within
his knowledge toucl in; the thing
which he vendee has an interastin

'183
1817.
.iaidlaw
V.

Organ.

1t6.,

CASES INTHE SUPREE COURT

1817.

party'had received inteligenci of the peace of Ghfnt#

'2
Laidlaw

at the time of the contract, and the other had nQtL
knoving, and that he sins against
that good faith which ought toreign.
in this contract, if he cbnceals
asy such circumstance from him.
- 'This iswhatFlorentinus teacles in the law 43. 2. Dig. "e con 1 ,
enpt. Dolum rnalum a se abeas
prmstare venditor debe, qua non
tantum
in eo est quifiall i caus
obqura-louir,
aed etiam qui in-

scindiuig of the contract. 1, 11,
§ 5.
de lit..
,235. This rule 'ought to bo
'applied, although the vendor, who
has cdncealed the dofects 'i the
thing sold, has not sold it for more
than its value With these defoat.
The- reason Is that he who salls
imo a thing has no right to requi'ro
that I should pay t*e highest prico
4dioi . obscur6 di&siu1a1,
for itr unless I consent to buy It
"234. A66rfingtotbesepfn- for that prico he hag no right to
cipl4s -O rendor is ohliged not to require of me a higher price than
aonceal any of the defectg of the thast which I voluntarily give, and
article sold, which are within lis'" he ought not to practise any artiknowledge, although these defects fice to induce me to consent to
may not be-such as fall within.an buy it at a higher price tain I
implied warranty, but even such should haVe been willing to givo
delfts as he vendee would have had I known the dfeot4 whichl he
:4o right to complaia of, if the yen- had maliciously concealed.
"236. Good faith obliges the
dor who had not dsPclosed them
was ignorant or-i'bir existence. vendor, not only not to cohcoat
C.m ex XII. tabulw, saysCicero, any of the intrinsic vices of the
(Lib. 1. dq0ff.) "sais esset cau- thing sold, bhut generally 'not t6
turn eaprcutarequm essent ling-d dissemble any circumsanco conu
ituncugoa1 ; i jriirconultis,etiam cerning itwbich might induce the
2'eticencim pw azconstituta, quid- vendee not to buy, or mdt to buy
quid enim ine t predio vitii id sta- at so high a ptice. For example,
luerunt, si venditor sciret,nisi nm , the vendee may have his aotio
inatim dictum esse, "prostare against tbe vendor if the'latter
oportere. - The vbndor," in this has concealed the existence of a
case, is held in id quanti (empto- bad nelghbotirhood to a real esis)'intere i
iss-. Dig. 1. 4. tate sold by him, which' might
De bl. emyot, and- this reservation have prevented the von46o from
moy sometimes authorize a re- .purehaping had he known' it: S

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

This news was Unexpected, even at Washington,
much more at New-Orleans, the receit scene of the

1317.
Laidlarv
Vo.

quis i vendendo preedio ronfmem the obligation of the vendor not
celarerit, queta emptor si audisset,
empturus non esset. Dig. L. 15.
§ 8. De contr. empt.
t"237. These principles of the
Roman jurisconsults, are more accurate and more conformable to
justice than the decision of St.
Thomas, which permits the vendor to conceal the vices of the
thing sold, except in two cases,
1. If the vice be of a nature to,
cause the vendee some injury ;
and 2. If the vendor availed himself. of his reservation in order to
sell the thing at a higher price
,than it was worth. This decision
appbars to me to be unjust, since,
as the vendor is perfectly at liberty
to sell or not to sell,, he ought to
leave the vendee perfectly at liberty to buy or not to buy, even
for a fair price, if that price does
not suit the buyer: it is, therefore, unjust to lay a snare for
this' liberty which the vendee
ought to enjoy, by concealing

from him the vice of the thing,
in order to induce him to buy that
"-which he would not have been
willing to buy for the price at
which it is sold 'to him, had he
known its defects.
"AnTrCLE If. 238. Although
it is with respect to the civil forum that the Roman jurisconsults
have established the principles
which we have stated, touching

to conceal from the vendee any
circumstance relative to the thing
sold, and although they ought to
be exactly followed, in foro conscientia, yet they are little ob.
served in our tribunals, and the
vendee is not easily listened to
irho complains of the conceal.
meat of some vice in the thing
sold, -unless it be such a defect as
falls within the doctrine of implied
warranty. The interest of commerce hot permitting parties to
set aside their contracts with too
much facility, they must impute
it to their-own faultin not having
better informed themselves of the
defects in the commodities they
have purchased.
"2A"39. There are, nevertheless, certain reservations touching
the thing sold which have been
thought worthy of the attention
of the law, and which are obligatory on the vendor in the civil forum; as for instance, when the
vendor knows that the thing
which he sells does not belong-to
him, or that it does not irrevocably belong to him, or that it is
subject to certain incumbrances,
and conceals these facts from the
vendee," &c.
"AnTiCLE 111. 241. Cicero,
in the third book of his Oflices.
has treated this question in the
case of a corn-merchant, who be,

Orgfan.

CASES IN THE SU.REMr COURT
1817.
Laidlaw
V.
Organ.

most sanguinary operations of the war. In answel
to the question, whether there was any news calcu.
ing arrived at Rhodes, in a time
of scarcity, before a great number
of other vessels loaded with corq,
exposes his own for sale: Cicero
proposes the question whether this
merchant is obliged to inform the
buyers that there are a great
number of other vessels on tleir
voyage, and near the port? le
states, upon this question, the sentiments of twQ stoic philosophers,
Diogenes and Antipater; Diogenes thought that the merchaot
mnight lawfully withhold the knowledge which he had of the vessels
on the point of arriving, and sell
his corn at the current price : Antipater, his disciple, whose decision Cicero appears to adopt,
thought, on the contrary, that this
dissimulation was contrary togood
faith. The reaspn on whiph le
grounds this opinion is that the
concord which ought to exist
.among men, the affection which
we ought to.bear to each other,
cannot permit us to prefer our
private intprest to the interest of
our neighbour, from whpnce it
followg that, though we may conceal some things from prudence,
we cannot conceal, for the sake
of profit, facts which those with
whom we contract have an inteI'est in knowing.

Hoc celandi

genus, says he, non aperli, non
simplicis, non ingenui ; non justi,
non virj 6oni: tverltgj potius, ob-

scuri, astut4, falles, malitosi,
callidi, teteratorls,vafri.
"This question only concerns
the forum of conscience; for therq
can be no doubt that in tho civil
forum, the demand of a vendee
cannot bo listened to who com-,
plains that the vendor has not disclosed to him all the oxtrinsic
circumstances relativo to tho
thing sold, whatever interest the
vendep might have in knowing
them. The decision of Cicero is
somewhat dilicult to maintain
even in the forum of conscionce.
The greater part of tho writers on'
natural law havo considered it as
unreasonable.
"These writers aro of opinion,
that the good faith which ought
to govern thp'contract of sale,
.Only requires that the vendor
should represent the thing sold as
it is, without dissimulating its de.
fects, and not to sell it above the
price which it bears at the time
of tle contract; that he commit5
no injustice in soiling it at this
price, althopgh he knows tlht thp
price must soon fall; that he is
not obliged to disclose to the vendee a knowledge which he may
have of the circumstances that
may produce a depression of the
price; the vendep having no more
right to demand that the vendor
should impart this *knowledge
than that ho should give away

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lated to enhance the price of the article, the vendee
was' silent. This reserve, when such a question was

1817.
Laidla7
V.

his property; that if he should do
it, it would be merely an act of
benevolence, which w6 are not
obliged to exercise except towards
those iwho are in distress, which
was not the case with the Rhodiais, who were only in want of
corn, but were not in want of
money to buy it. The profit
which the merchant makes in seling it for the price it is worth today, although he is conscious the
price will fall to-morrow, is not
iniquitdus ; it is a just recompense for his diligence in reaching
the market first, and for the risk
which he ran of losing upon his
commodities if any accident had
prevented his arriving so soon.,
It is no more forbidden to sell at
the cmrent price, without disclosing the circumstances which may
cau.se it to fal, than it is to buy
without communicating those
which may cause it to rise. And
Joseph was never accused of injustice for profiting of the knowledge which he alone had of the
years of famine to buy the -fifth
part of the corn of the Egyptians.
without warning them of the years
of famine that were to follow,
"Not withstanding thest roasons and authorities, I should have
some difficulty, in the forum of
conscience, in excus:ng the injustice of a profit which th vendor
might derive from concerting -

fact which would dause a fall in
the price of the commodity, when
thatfall mustbevery considerable,
and must certainly arrive in a very
short period of time, such as that
which the merchant knew of the
near approach-of - fleet to Rhodea
laden with corn. In the contract
of sale, as well as in other mutually beneficial contracts, equity
requires that what the one party
gives should be the equivalent of
what he receives, and that neither
party should wish to profit at the
expense of the other. But in the
case of the merchant, who, by dissembling the knowledge which he
has of this fact, sells his corn at
one hundred livres the cask, the
market price of the day, can he,
withtat illusion, persuade himself
that the article which, in two days,
will be worth no more than twenty livres, is the equivalent of one
hundred livres which he receives?
You will say that it is sufficient if
at the time it be worth the price
of one hundred livrcs for which he
sells it. I answer, that a thing,
which has a present and momentary v-due of one hundred livres, but
which he c.ertainly knows will be
reduced in two days to the value
of twenty, cannot be serivusly regarded by him as truly the cquiralent of thz. money which he receives, and which must always bp
worth one hundred. Does nothis

Or9 n.

CASES IN THPE SUPREME C6URT
181'?.

Laidlaw
V.

Organ.

asked, was equivalent to a' false answer, and. as
much calculated to deceive as the communication of
the most fabulous ihtelligence. Though the plaintiffs in error, after' they heard the news of peace,
still went on, in ignorance of their legal rights, to
complete the contract, equity will protect them.
conduct imply, that be wishes, by dee, may employ 'in order to inhis reservation, to profit and en- duce the vendbr to sell, or to sell
rich himself at the expense of the at a less price. 2d. Whore the
buyers, to induce them to'pur- vendee conceals from the vendor
cbape a commodity by which be'is the knowledge 'whiqh he may
certain they must lose in two days have, touching the thing sold, and
four fifths of the oriinal'cost?"
which the vendor may, not posThe merchant will smile at th6 sess. The former species of fraud,
rigid morality of this deservedly if sufficiently proved, he eonliders
celebrated writer, who' proceeds, will invalidate the contaot oven
in a fourth 'article, to considbr in the civil forum. But the latter
whethdr the vendor may, in foro he deems only obligatory in fore
,ccinsti% sometimes tell at a conscien ci, both because unduly
price above the true value of -the restricting the freedom of comeammodity. After laying down merde, and becaue 'the vendor.
some general rules on this subject, ought to know best the qualities
he remarks, that "they are not 'of the articles he sells, and if he
adopted in hd civil forum, where' does not, it is his own fault. No7,.
a vendee is not ordinarily admitted 294-299. In *theifth part, chap.
to complain thathe has psurchas~d 2., he considers the subject of the,
dearer than the.true value, it be- action which is given by the Code,
ing for the interest of commerce 7. 4. tit. 44. De rcecind. end., to%
fhat parties should not be allowed the vendor for rescinding the conto set aside their contracts with tract on account of onormou, le.
too touch facility." No. 242. In ;!on, or gross inadcqii tcy of price,
a subsequent part of his treatise which, however, does not extend
ie states what are the nature of to merchandise, or other personal
the frauds that may be conmitted piroperty, and, therefore, it is unby.the vendee, which he rei;olves necessary to trouble the reader
into two classes.
1st. The6'first by-extending this note to a greatconsist$ of any misrepreseptati6n er length.
or circumvehpfion which:th vda-

OF THE UNITE1N-STATgSi.

2. Mr. Girault wa- iniproperly rejetted. as a witness,

191

1n.

because, he and his partger.had .disclaimed, and

Messrs. Boorman & Johnston, the, real owners of
the toba6co, had intervened and taken the place of
the original defendants. Girault, was tiot obliged
to diselose.his character of agent, and, as such, he
was an admissible witness.d The tendency of the
modern decisions to let objections go to the credibility, and.not to the competency of witnesses, ought
to be encouraged as an-improven'ent in the jurispru.dence on this subject. i8esides, the proceedings are
Yessentially in'rem, according to the cofirse of the civil
law, adnd that consideration ip conclusive as to the
oadmissibility-of the witness.. 3. The court below
had fio right to charge the jury absolutely to find for
.the plaintifE -It was a mixed question of fa~t and
law, whidh ought to have been left to the jury to-deceide. 4. There is error in the judgment of the
court; in decreeing a deposit of the bills of exchange
by the vendee for the tobacco, no such agreement
being proved.
-Mr. Key contra, 1. Though there be no testimony in the record to show a contract for payment
in bills of exchange, still the court may infer that
such..was the contractfrom the petition of the plaintiff _bel0, .u'ported as it is by his bath, and uncontradicted, asto this fact, by the defendant's answer.
J D on V. Cooper,S wF'e. 40. 408.
r .A&t.248.

Benjamin v. Ppr-

Jones v. Hake, 2 Jos.

Cas. 60.

Burlingame v. Ilyer, 2

teWs, 2 H. -B.590. Mackay v. Johns. Rep. 189.
1hanelzudeiet aL j John Cs.

Orca

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1811.
Laidlaw
V.

Organ.

'the depcde was for a specific perfQrmance, and the
vi.ndors took the bills out of court. 2. The judge's
charge was right,,there being no ev'idence of fraud.
The 'veridee's silence was not legal evidence of fraud,
and, therefore, there was no conflict'of testimony on
this point: it was exclusively a question of law; the

law was with the plaintiff; and, cdnsequently, the
court did right to instruct the jury to find for the
plaintiff. 3. Mr. Girault was an inadmissible wittiess. He and his partners were general merchants
as well as factors. They sold in .their own nmes,
and might ball the article their own or the property
of their principals, as it suited them. But they
were parties to the suit, and the intervehition of
their principals did not abate the suit as to them.0
e ntervention Is a proceeding
by which a third person petitions
to be, received as a party in a
cause, eitherwith the plaintiff or
the defendant, and to prosecute
the suit jointly with the party
whose interests may be connected
with his own. Itmay take place
either before or after the cause
is at issue, and set down for hearing; either in the court below, or
upon appeal. But it cannot operate to retard the adjudication of
the principal cause; which may
tithei be determined separately,
or the whole controversy may be
decided by one and the same
judgment. Clerke's Prax. lit.
38, 3C Pothier, De la Procdure Civile, Partlie 1, chap. 2, art.
3. 5 3. Code'de Prwc4dure Civile,

Partie1. Liv. 2. lit. ,G. Do llIntervention, art. .339, 340. It may
take place where the -goods of
one person are attached us the
property or for the debt of another.
Clerke's Prax. lb. In actions of
warranty, Pothier, lb. ParLio 1.
chap. 2. art. 2. § 2. Codedo Procdure Civile, lere Partie, Liv. 2.
lit. 9. Des ExcepLions Dilatoires,
art. 103. So also in a suit for
separation of property betiveen
husband and wife, the creditors
of the husband may intervene for
the preservation of their rights.
lb. 2 Partic. Liv. 1. tit. 8. Des
Separatinsde Riens, art. 871.
Interest in the subject matter
of the suit is a fatal objection to
the competency of a witness by
the ciyil law ; (Pothler,Id. Par-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

On every ground, therefore, Mr. Girault was an in.
4. The only' real question in
the cause is, whether the sale was invalid because
the.vendee did not communicate information which
g .he received precisely as the vendor might have got
it had he been equally diligent or equally fortunate ?
And, surely, on this question there cah be no doubt.
Even if the vendor had been entitled to the disclosure, he waived it by not insisting on an answer to
his question; and the silence of the vendee might
as well have been interpreted into an qfirmative as a
admissible witiiess.

negative answer.

But, on principle, he was not

bound'to disclose. Even'admiitting that his conduct
was unlawful, in foro conscientice, does that prove
that it was so in the civil forum ? Human laws dre
imperfect in this respect, and the sphere. of morality
is more eitensive than the limits of civil jurisdiction.
The maxim of caveat emptorcould never havecrept into.
the law if the province of ethics had been co-extensive
with it. There was, in the present caseno circum'vention or manceuvre practised by the vendee, unless
rising earlier in the morning, and obtaining by supe.rior diligence and alertness that intelligence by
which the price of, bommodlties was regulated, be
-such. It is a romantic equality that is contended
for on the-other side. Parties never can be pteeisely equal in knowledge, either of facts or of the
tie 2. chap, 3. art. 4. § 3. ;) but ac still a party to the cause notwith.cording to the above authorities, standing the intervention of his
TrMr. Girault appears to have been
an inadmissible witness, 'bcause

V6.. IT.

principals.

B b

1817.

"€-'
Laidlaw

V.

organ.

194
1817.
Laidlaw
V.
0

Orga-

ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

inferences from such facts, and both must-concur ii
order to satisfy the rule contended for. The abEngland and the United
sence of all authority iri
States, both great commercial counties, speaks vo,
lumes against the reasonableness Ind practicability
of. such a rule.
Mr. C. J. Ifigersoll, in reply. Though the re.
cord may not show that any thing tending to mis-,
lead by positive assertion was s;id by the vendee,
in answer to the question proposed. by Mr. Girault,
yet it~is a case of manceuvre; of mental reservation;
of circumvention. The information was monopoli.
and not
zed by the messengers from the British &flet,
imparted to the public at large until it was too late
for the vendor'lo save.himself. The rule of law 'and
of ethics is the same. It, is not a romantic, .but a
practical and legal rule of equplity and good faith
that is.proposed' to be applied. The. answer of'
Boorman & Johnston denies thb, whole of the
petition, 4nd consequently denies that payment Was
to be in i bills of exchabge; and their taking the
bills out of court, ought not' to prejudice them,
There is 'nothing in the record to show that the
vendors were general 'ine'rchants, and they disclo-sed their principals when. they came to plead. Tho
judge undertook to decide from the testim'ony, that
there was no fraud; 'in so doing he invaded the proIvince of the jury; he should have left it to the juryq,
expressing his opinion'mereely,

OP. THE UNITED STATESV

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the court.
the intelliThe question in this case is, whether
•
gence of extrinsic cirdumstances, which might influence the price of the commodity, and which was exelusively within the knowledge- of the vendee, ought
to- have been, communicated by him to the vendor?
tfie-court isof opinion that he wis not bound to communicate it. It would be difficult.to circumscribe the
contrary dobtrine within proper 'limits, where the
means of intelligence are equally accessible to both
parties. But at the same time, each party must'tak
care nbt to say or do any thing- tending to impose
upon the other. The court thinks that the absolute
instruction of the judge was erroneous, and that the
question, whether any imposition was practised by
the vendee upon the Vendor ought to have been subitted to the jury. Eor-these reasons the judgment
must be reversed, and the caase'rematnded to the disw:
triet court of Louisiana, witli directions to award a
veniiefacidas do nolo.
Veni& td novo awarded.

1817.
Imidlaw¢

V.
Organ.
m

h.

