OF THE UNITED STATES.

no sufficient defence, and the court misconstrued no
act of congress, nor committed any error in sustaining the demurrer.

Judgment affiuned with costs.

GREE.N.LAF v. CooK.
Where a promissory note Was given for the purchase of real properly,
held that-the failure of consideration through defect of title mnustbe
te!, in order to constitute a good defence to an action on the note.
Quwre, Whether, after receiving a deed, the party could avail himself
even, of a total Maiure of consideration?
But where the note is given with full knowledge of the extent of the
incumbr-ince, and the party thus consents to receive the title, its
defect is no legal bar to an action on the note.
Anypartial defect in the title or the deed is not inquirable into by a
court of law in an action on the note; but the party most seek relief in chancery.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States,
for the district of Columbia.
James Greenleaf instituted a suit in that court on
g promissory note executed by the defendant,. who
pleaded the general issue. On the trial, the defendant gave in evidence a deed executed by.
,t4
Francis, and others, by James Greenleaf, their attor-

A3
3617.
''

Greenicaf
V.

CASE9 IN THE SUPREME COURT

ney, conveying to him a lot of ground in the, city of
1817.
'Grzenkda Washington, for the purchase of which the promisV.
sory note in the declaration mentioned was given.
COOk.
He also gave in evidence a deed from Moiris,
Nicholson, and others, to Thomas Law, purporting to
be a mortgage of a great number of squares ant) lots
in the city of Washington, and among others, of the
square comprehending the lot purchased by the
defendant, together with the proceedings in a suit
in chancery, instituted by the said Thomas Law,
against Pratt, Francis, and others, in which a decree
of foreclosure was pronounced. He then produced
a witness who proved, that at the time of the sale
the lot was not, in his .opinion, exclusive of improvements, worth more than the sum mentioned in
the note.Upon this testimony, the counsel for the'defendant moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they
believed the testimony, the law was. for the defendant, which instruction the court refused to give, the
judges being divided in opinion thereon. The counsel for the plaintiff then moved the court to'instruct
the jury that the.*Jaw was for the plaintiff, which
opinion the court. atso refused to give) being still
f
divided.
The counsel for the plaintiff then produced tes.timony to prove that the lot of ground, in payment
for which the promissory note mentioned in the declaration was given, had been sold to a certain John
Bickly, who took possession thereof, and resided
thereon during his life; that after his death, hi5
widow continued to reside thereon until she inter.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

married with the defendant, and that the defendant
still resides thereon. That previous to the execution of the promissory note, on which this suit is
instituted, he received full and complete information
of the deed of mortgage in the foregoing bill of exrceptions mentioned, and of the probable effect of
that deed. That with this knowledge, after consultation and mature consideration, he received the deed
ibr the lot, and gave his promissory note tor the purchase money. He then moved the court to inqtruct
the jury that, if they believed the facts thus stated on
testimony, the plaintiff was entitled to recover in
this action. But the court, being again divided, refused to give the opinion required.
The counsel for the plaintiff took Pnceptionm to
the proceedings of the court, in each point, in not
giving their opinions as asked: The' jury founcl a
verdict for the defendant, upon which judgment was
rendered, and the cause came before this court on a
writ of error.
Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff in error, argued, that
%vhere'aparty purchases real property, without fraud
on the part of the vendor, the Vendee takes it at his
own risk, unless he has a warranty against the acts
of all the world. That-there is no distinction between a direct action to recover back the purchase
money, and a defence for want of consideration. In
this case there is no eviction, but a mere contingent incumbrance only, proper for th 9 exclusire
cognizance of a court of equity, which .court may

1817
U~reenleaf
7.

reb. stb.

CASES IN THE SUPREME OOURT

18 17:
V.

Cook.

decree a specific performance, or compensation, as
'ts justice may require.,
Mr. Laweontra, contended, that if this were a case

of an express agreement. to take any or no title, the
doctrine cited from Sugden would apply; but that
here the vendor promised to give the vendee a cicar
and unincumbered title. A court of chancery will
never decree a specific performance without a perfectwtitle at law and in equity; and the defence on
account of defect of title is as available in the one,
forum as the other.'
Feb. Sth.

Mr. Ch. J. MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows ""
On the first exception .it has been argued, that
there is a failure of consideration, which constitutes
a good defence in this action.
Without deciding whether, after receiving a deed,
the defendant could avail himself of even a total
failure of consideration; the court is .of opinion,
that to make it a good defence, in any case, the
failui'b must be total. The prior mortgage o the
premises, and the decree of foreclosure, do not pro.
duce a total failure of consideration. The equity of
redemption may be worth sQmething: this court
cannot say how much; nor is the inquiry a proper
a Sugden'a Law of Vendors, 312. to 318. anud the aithorities tbero
cited.
b 2 Comyn on Coat. 52..

OF THR UNITED STATES.

.ee in a court of law in an action on the note. If

1817.

the defendant be entitled to any relief it is not in '-Greenleaf'
V,
this action.
Cook.
first.exceptions
the
on
exist
But if any doubt could
there is none on the second. The note was. given
with full knowledge of the case. Acquainted with
the extent of the incumbrance, and its probable consequences, the defendant consents to receive the

title which the plaintiff was able to make, and on
receiving it, executes his note for the purchase money. To the payment of a note given under such
circumstances, the existence of the incumbrance can

certainly furnish no legal objection.
It has been also said that the deed is defective.
If it be, the defendant may require" a proper deed,
and it is not impossible but there may be circumstan-

ces which Would induce a court of ecuity to enjoin
judgnlent until a proper deed be made. But
the objections to the deed -cannot be examined in
this action.
Judgment reversed.

-his,

e By the French law, the price
of the sale of real property cannot
be recovered by the vensor, if the
ve dee has been disturbed (Crou6M) in his possession, by prior incumbrances, or has just ground
for 4pprebension on that account,
until the litigation concerning
them is terminated; unless, indeed, the vendor gives sufficient
security to indemnify the vendee
in case of eviction. PotIhier de
V'ent, n. 280. Code ,Napolion.
VOL. It,

Liv. 3. fit. 6. chap. 5. n. 1653.
For the various distinctions in our
law as to where the vendee may
detain the purchase money, if in.
cumbrances are discovered previously to the payment of it, and
to what relief he iscentitled if
evicted after the money is actually paid, see Sugden's Law of
Vendors as above cited, which
contains a complete digest of thp
cases in equity on this subject

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

Otis
V.
Walter.

JUDG.MENT.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the circuit court of
the United States for the county. of Washington, and
wasargued by counsel. All which being
seen arid
considered, it is the opinion of this court that there
is'error in the proceedings of the said circuit court,
in this, that the said court refused to'instruct the jury
.on the application of.the counsel for the plaintiff,
that on the facts given in evidence to them, if believed, the plaintiff was entitled to recover in that
action; wherefore it is considered by this court, that
the said judgment of the said circuit court be reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded
to the said court to be proceeded in according to law.

(coMMoN LAW.)
OTIS V. WALTER.
Ii seizures under the embargo laws, the law itself is a sufficient justification to the seizing officer whero the discharge of duty is tho
rcal motive, and not the pretext for dotention, and it is not necessary -o show probable cause.
But the embargo act of the 25th of April, 1808, related only to vessels ostensibly bound to some port in the United States, and a seizure after the termination of the voyage is unjustifiable; and no
further detention of the cargo is lawful than what is necessarily dependent on the detention of the vessel.
It is not indispensable to the termination of a voyage that the vessel
should arrive at the terminus of her original destination; but'it may
be.produced by stranding, stress of weather, or any other cause in,

