CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Union Bank
(cHANcEaY.)

V.

The UNiON BANK of Georgetown v. LAIRD.
By the act of incorporation of the Union Bank of Georgetown, oh. 80.
sec. 11. the shares of any iddividual stockholder are transferrablo
only on the books of the bank, according to the rules (conformably
to law) established by the president and directors; and alldebts
due and payable to the bank, by a stockholder, must be satisfied before the transfer shall be made, unless the president and directors
should dirert to the contrary. Held, that no person could acquiro
a legal title to any shares, except under a regular transfer, according to the rules of the bank; and if any person takes an cquitablo
assignment, it must be sulject to the rights of the bank, under the
act of incorporation, of which he is bound to take notice.
A creditor may lawfully take and hold several securities for the same
debt, and cannot be compelled to yield up either until the debt is
paid; therefore, the bank has a right to take sccurity from one of
the parties to a bill or note discounted by it, and also to hold the
shares of another party as security for the same.

APPEAL

from the circuit court for the district ot

Columbia.
James Smith, on the 19th of March, 1811, drewa bill at sixty days sight, on James Patton, in favor
of Andre* Smith, for 1,800 dollars. This bill was
accepted by Patton, and was discounted in the Union
Bank of Georgetown, at the instance of Andrew
Smith, and when it became due, another bill of the
same tenor was drawn and accepted by Patton, and
discounted for the purpose of paying the preceding
acceptance. This last acceptance became due on
the 14th and 17th of July, and was protested for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

non-payment; and at the time that it became due,
Patton held 50 shares of stock in the Union Bank,
which the bank considered liable to the payment of
this acceptance, under their act of incorporation.
At this time, also, James Patton had another debt
pendink in the bank. Being one of the original subscribers to the bank, for the above-mentioned 50
shares of stock, he borrowed of the bank, in January, 1811, the sum of 1,500 dollars, and to enable
him to obtain the loan, procured Marsteller and
Young, and the defendant, Laird, to become his endorsers. This loan was renewed from time to time,
and was continued, without any default of payment,
ufitil about the 29th of July, 1811.
On the 26th of March, 1811, Patton obtained from
the officers of the bank a certificate of his 50 shares
of stock, and on that day delivered it to the defendant, Laird, to secure him, as it was alleged, against
his endoTsement for Patton.
On the 10th of July, 1811, Patton executed a
power of attorney, authorizing the defendant, Laird,
to make a transfer of his stock; and on the 22d of
August, 1811, he executed a deed of assignment to
the defendant, Laird, of his stock: but as this assignment was not made upon the books of the bank, it
was not considered a valid assignment, according to
the rules of the bank.
Laird, considering himself entitled to the benefit
of these shares, under the circumstances, applied to
the bank to transfer upon their books the shares
for his own benefit. But the bank, upon the ground
that the acceptance which Patton had failed to pay

181r.
Union Bank

,.
Lair.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

09
1817.
'
Union
Bank

V.
Lair&

operated as a lien upon those shares, refused to suffer the transfer to be made until that debt was paid.
Laird, some time after this refusal, t6 wit, on the
22d of February, 1812, paid the 1,500 dollars, for
which he was endorser for Patton, reserving, nevertheless, his equitable claim Upon the stock, and then
instituted this suit in chancery, against the Union
Bank, to compel them to suffer the transfer to be
.made on their books for his benefit, and to account
with him for the intermediate profits. He charged in
his bill, that when Patton obtained the certificate of
his shares of stock, it was with a view of pledging those shares with him for his indemnification, and
that the officers of the bank had a knowledgo of this
fact. Ee also alleged, that the power of attorney
was granted with the same view.
The directors of the bank filed their answer to this
bill, and denied any knowledge of the object 'for
which the certificate of shares was obtained; and
alleged, that they knew nothing of any claim of
Laird upon those shares, -until after the protest of
Patton's acceptance.
The court below made a decree in favor of Laird,
that the bank should suffer him to transfer the
shares for his own benefit, and have an account
for the intermediate profits.

-31arch 4th.

The cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for the appellants, and by Mr. Jones, for the respondent.

Mareh 15th.

Mr. Justice SToRy delivered the opinion of the
court.

OF THE UNITED

TEt' ,E3

The principal question is, whether, under the cir.
'cmstancesmsgi
of this case, Laird, the original plaintiffig
hap a right to a transfer from the bank,of the fifty
shares of its capital stock, standing in the name of
Patton, without paying the acceptande of Patton;
or, in other words, whether Laird has a priority of
len upon these shares. By the 1 Ith section of'the
act of- hncorponation, (act of 18th February, 1'811,
ch. 86.,) it is enacted, "That the shateg'df the capital stock, at any time owned by-any individual stockholder, shall be -trantferrable only on ihe books of'
the bank, accordng to' such rules as inhy, conforinably to law, be established ir'that behalf;by the pV'sidetit'and directors; but.all d-ebts actually due and
payable to the bank (days of grace for paynent 6eing passed) by a stockholder, requestirig a transfer
must be satisfied before such transfer shall be made,
unless the president and directors shall direct to the
6ntrary." The certificate, issued to Patton for the
50 shares-held by him, (which is in the usual forin:)
declares the shares to -be "transferrable at the said
bank, by the said Patton, or his attorney, on surrendering this certificate." No person, therefore, can
acquire a legal title to any shares, except under a
regular transfer, according to the rules of the bank';
and if any person takes*an equitable assignment, it
must be subject-to the rights of'the bank, under the
act of incorporation, of which he is bound to take
notice. The president and directors of the bank expressly deny that they have waived, or ever intended
to waive, the right of the bank to the lien, for debts
due to the bank, by the fortm of the certificate, and
VoL. H.

3D

393
1817.
Uniou Bankr

v.
L1IL

394

CASES' IN THE SUPREE COURT

that they -ever directed any transfer to be made, te
tPattonBaA
which should stipulate to the contrary. TinTUnion
V. der. such circumstances, it must be held, that the
Laird.
Ahares are responsible for the debts due to te bank.
1817.

The next inquiry is, whdiher the bhnk has done
any thing to , deprive itself of the lien upon the
shares for the acceptance of Patton, since the bame
became due, and to let in the equitable title of the
plaintiff. The acceptance is not yet paid; and nothing has been done by the bank affecting its righto,
unless the subsequent taking of security for the acceptance, from Smith, can be construed so to do.
Certainly the bank had a right to require additional
security from the endorser of the acceptance; and
it cannot be perceived upon what principles this can
be construed an extinguishment of its lien upon the
slares of the acceptor. A creditor may lawfully
take -and 'hold several securities for the samb debt
from his joint debtors; and he cannot be compellable.to yield up either until his debt is paid. And in
this case, there is no want of equity in holding the
shares of Pation, who is the immediate debtor' to,
the bank, liable in the first instance, rather than resorting to the security of an endorser, who is only
liable upon the default of the acceptor.
The decree of the circuit court must, thereforq,
be reversed, and the bill be dismissed.
Decree. accordingly.

