OF THE UNITED STATES.

a3
1817.
loglee

(FRACTICL.)

INGLEP. V. CooLIDGE.
No writ of error lies to the highest court of law or equity of a state
court, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, unless
there is something apparent on the record bringing the case within
the appellate'jurisdiction of this court.
The reportbf the judge who tries the cause at nisi priuscontaining a
statement of the facts, is not to be considored as a part of the record; the judgment being rendered upon a general verdict, and tho
report being mere matter in ;aisto regulate the discretion of the
court as to the propriety of granting a new trial, the writ of error,
in such a case, will be dismissed.

Tis was a writ of error upon a judgment of the
supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, rendered
in an action of assumpsit. The declaration contained three counts, to which the general issue was
pleaded, -and upon two of these chunts the jury
found a general verdict for the defendant, (the plaintiff in error,) and upon the third count a general verdict, with damages for the original plaintiff. The
cause was then continued, as the record states; "for
the opinion of the whole court upon the law of the
case, as reported by the judge who tried the same."
,At a subsequent term, judgment was rendered by
the whole colirt for the plaintif- upon the verdict
found in his favour. The report of the judge -who
tried the cause came up in the record annexed to.
the writ of error, with other proceedings and exhibits in the cause.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
'

Inglce
-

v.

Mr. G. Sullivan, for the plaintiff in error, argued,
thai, by the report of the judge,, in the court below,
it appeared that the chief question in this cause involved a constructive application of the act df congress of the 18th of June, 1812, declaring war
against Great'Britain; to the question whether the
purchase of a British license to-protect the property
of a citizen, was a lawful consideration for the proinissory n9te on which the a .tion -was brought. It
is contended', by the defendant in error, that however this may be, this court cannot sustain the writ
of error in the present case; because the report of
the judge is no part of the 'record. To determine
the question suggested by this objection, it becomea
necessary to inquire of what a'record consists. "A
record," says Brittona " is a memorial or remembrance, an authentic testimony in writing, contained
in rolls of parchment, and preserved in a court of
record." But a more particular definition is given
by. Lord Coke,b who defines it to be "a memorial of
the proceedings or acts of a court of Tecord." In
modern times, to avoid thie delay incident to the preparation of a special verdict at the trial, apractico
has grown up of reserving the cause for the whole
court, upon a'specidlcase,which is prepared by the
coufisel, or, as a substitute therefor, is made by the
judge, and thrown into the form of a port, under a
special agreement of the parties, that a nonsuit, a
default, or even a different verdict may be entered,
according to the decision of the court; such is the
aZ C. 27.

b Go. Liet. 117. a. 560. b,

OF, TIM UNITED ST4TES.

practice in the -supreme court of Masahusah

ts-

12

Where is the substantive difference between theq

"special case" and a report made under suoh .uderstanding and agreement? Error lies: upon a spe.
cial case. The judgment Qf the court beloW in th.
case of Hunter -v.
Martin was founded. on a statement of facts, as settled by a case agreed. But, tbe
report of the judge, in the present case, was a necessary proceeding or act of the court, upon.which
its decision on the merits was founded. Itascertained all the facts in the case; and what more does
a special case or verdict? The position assumed -n
the other side narrows the ground of'remedial process, in a manner inconsistbnt with a liberal application of the constitutional powers of this court.
Mr. Webster, for the defendant in error, contended,
that the points on which the plaintiff relied could not
be raised in this case. Nothing appears on the record of the judgment in Massachusetts by which the
court can pronounce that judgment to be erroneous.
The gefieral rule of law confines writs of error to
matters arising on the record,. and the statute expressly provides, that n cases where writs of errorare brought in this court to reverse judgments rendered in state courts, on the ground that. such judg
ments were rendered against the validity, or on.au.
erroneous construction of a statute of the Unite4
States, "no other eriror'shall be assigned or regardpd, as a ground of reversal in any such case, than
c 1 T"ka. 204.

v

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

366
1817.
'diately
Ingleo

V.
OQolidge.

su6h as appears on the face of the record, and, inmerespects the before-mentioned question of
validity or construction." The judge's report of the
evidence is, no part of the record. Still less are the
depositions of -witnesses. Nothing, therefore, appears on the face of this record which, in any way,
respects either the validity or construction of any.
statute of the United States. This is, in effect, an
attempt to reverse the judgment of a court for error
in refusing to grant a new trial. If a party be dissatisfied with the direction of a judge at Nisi Prius,
in matter of law, there are two modes, in either of
which he may ordinai'ily cause such direction to bo
reviewedb Without putting the question on the record, he may move for a new trial, on the report of
the judge in that court otut of which t~e record issues;. or he may tender his bill of exdeptions, the
objdet'of which'is to put the question on the record,
and then bring his writ of erroi'. But he cannot
pursue both courses. If he relies on his motion for
a new trial, then his objection does not appear on
the record, arid, of course, no writ of error lies. If
hfe tender his bill of exceptions, the court where tho
record is will not grant a newv trial on the ground
stated in the bill of exceptions, for the question is
then on the record, and the error, if any, may be
corrected by writ of error.8 . The discussion of questions of law on motions for new trials is attended
with the well-known consequence of giving up the
right of proceeding further with the cause. The
SFabrigs V.Motyn, 2 . BL. 99.

367

OF THE UNITED STATES6

eflfdet of this in England on the. jurisdiction of the
House of Lords has not esdaped the notice of Lord
Chancellor -Eldon. But this is for 'the considbration of the parties themselves. In this case the
plaintiff in error has made his election. He "haa
chosbn to trust to the success of .his notion for a
neW trial in the court of Massachusetts. -If that
has-failed, he can have no remedy here by writ-of
error.

1817.
V.

Mr. Justice 'STORY dilivered the opinion of the March 13t.
court, and after stating the case,.proceeded as follows:
e 2 Dow's .ep;480.

Smth d

aL v. Robertson e at. This was
.Zm insurance cause appealed from
the court of session in Scotland
tothe House of Lokds, havingb~en
originally brought in the.court of
admiralty in Scotland. In deliiering the judgment bf the house,
affirming the decree of the court
below, L6rd ELDON stated, that
"their Lordships were aware, and
'it wa§ due to the court of sessionn
to mark the fact, that these cases
were all heard there in such a
course, that there was no -obstacle
in point of form to prevent their
coming before their lordships.
By the old mode of proceeding in
Westminster Hall, forty yedrs-before he bad set footin it, the practice was, to have special verdicts
found, and then the case might

Lords. But this pratice had
been altered by Lord MANSFIELD,
upon the whole, with considerabW
\utility; and noy for'the
sake of
expedition, instead of entering the
matter at length upon the record
in a special verdict, special cases
were mLade fo' th dpinion of the
court; and nothing apkearing on
!be record but the general verdict, the subject might have no
door by which to come into that
house. But in the court of seasion, as he understood their pracice, the cases ivere heard in such
a form, that the subject could not
be prevented from coming txlleir
lordships' and, therefore, it was
no discredit to the court ofsesiorf
that so many of their decisiona
in these' insuranco cause, were
brought under the .roiew of thoa

come up on error to the House of lordships."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
Inglee

V.

oolidge.

A motion has been made to dismiss the writ of
error, upon the ground that there is nothing apparent upon the record which brings the case within

th appellate jurisdiction of ihis court, under tho
25th section of the judiciary act of 1789. It'is conceded, on all sides, that this is entirely correct, unless the report of the judge who tried the cause,
which contains a statement of the facts, is to be considered as a part of the record. And we are tmani-

Inously of opinion that it cannot be so considered.
It is'not like a special verdict or a statement of facts
agreed of record, upon which the court is to pronounce its judgment.' The judgment is, rendered
upon a general verdict, and the report is mere wat,
ter inpais, to regulate the discretion of the court as
to the propriety of granting relief, or sustaining a
motion for a new trial.
The writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed.
Mr. Wheaton, for the defendant in error, moved.
for costs.
"[Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALt.. The court .does
hot give costs where a cause is dismissed for want
ofjurisdiction.]
Writ of error dismissed without costs!
f Costa will be allowed upon origiial ddfendant be also defendthe dismission of a writ of error, ant ih error. Winchestorv. Jacltor wast of jurisdiction, if the son el as, 3 Cranch, 515,

