CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Leeds
(CHANCER.)

V.

Marine Ins.
Company.

LEEDS v.

The

MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY Of

Alexandria.
The answer of one defendant to a bill in chancery cannot be used as
evidence against his co-defendant; and the answer of an agent is
not evidence against his principal, nor are his admissiodis in pais,
unless where they are a part of the res gesta.
Where a cause is set down for hearing on the bill, answer, and exhibits, without other pleadings, the wholeof the answer must he
considered as true.
March 14th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Suann, for thb appellants, and by Mr. Lee for the respondents.

March 15th.

The opinion of the-court was delivered by Mr.
Justice WASHINGTON.
This is a bill filed on the equity side of the circuit
court of the district of Columbia, for the county of
Alexandria, by the Marine Insurance Company of
Alexandria against Jedeaiah Leeds, praying for an
injunction -to a judgment obtained at law in that
court against the said company by William Hodgson,
for the use of George F. Straas and the said Jedediah Leeds. The judgment was obtained by Hodgson 'on a policy of insurance, dated the 30th of September, 1799, efflected by him with the said company on the brig Hope, in his own name, foi George
F. Straas and others, of Richmond.
The bill states that, in the year 1810, the above
judgment was obtained for the use and benefit of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

38 1

George F. Straas, and the respondent Jedediah
1817.
Leeds. That, previous to the said insurance, the
said George F. Straas, and Jedediah Leeds, being Led5
owners of a vessel called the Sophia, did, through cowp:ny.
the agency of the said William Hodgson, effect an
insurance on the said vessel, the Sophia ;.for the premium on which, amounting to 2,754 dollars, Hodgson
gave his own note. That Straas paid 929 dollars
in part of the premium note; and claiming a return
of premium to the amount of the residue of the said
note, he obtained an injunction in the court of chancery of Virginia, which was finally dissolved.
The ground on which that injunction is prayed,
is, that the balance of the premium due upon the in-

surance of the Sophia ought to be offset, so far as
it goes, against the judgment at law upon the policy
of the Hope.
The answer of Leeds denies that he had any interest in the Sophia at the time the insurance mentioned in the bill was effected, or that he was in any
manner concerned in that insurance. He states that
within a few months after the insurance on the Hope
was effected, and long before the judgment in law
was obtained, he had acquired by purchase from
Straas and a Mr. Trouin, the other owner of the
Hope, all their interest in Ahat vessel, and in the
policy of insurance which had been effeL.ed upon
her. He, therefore, dcriies the allegation in the bill,
that the judgment upon that policy was obtained for
the use of Straas, or for that of any other person' than
himself. The answer refers to his agreements with

CASES IN THE SUPREJMR COURT

the other owners, which are annexed to the answer as
thereof.
n Ins.
n.
William Hodgson, who 'Vas made a defendant to
MIarine
cowialy, this bill; states, in his answer, that he received an
order, in November, 1799, to effect an insurance on
the Sophia and her cargo, for account o" Straas
and Leeds; in conformity with which order he effected the said insurance with the complainants, and gave
his own. note for the premium. He adds, that he
always understood from Leeds that he was interested with Straas in the said insurance.
A general replication was filed; but whether to
both the answers, or to the answer of Hodgson
alone, is not clear; and a dedimus was awarded to
take depositions. 'No depositions, however, were
taken; and the record states that the cause was set
down for hearing on the bill, answer, and exhibits,
and was heard on those proceedings The. exhibits
relieds'upon by the defendant below to prove his purchases from the other owners of the Hope of their interest in that -vessel, and in the insurance effected on
her, were rejected by, the circuit court. That cojirt
decreed a -perpetual injunction as to the sum cl~aimud
by the complainants; from which decree an appeal
was prayed, and allowed, to this court.
The facts relied upon by the appellant, to induce
a.reversal of t'his decree, are, 1. That the irterest
of Straas in the insurance of the' Hope was transferred to him, tile appellant, for a full consideration,
soon after the insurance Was effected, and before the
judgment at law was obtained. 2. That the appellant had no interest in the Sophia at the time when
1817.

Sparts

OF THE UNITED STATEM.

1817.
the insurance was effected upon her, the premium
,against
on which is claimed in this case as an offset
Leeb"
v.
the above judgment; and that the insurance of the
Sophia was not made for the account, or by the or- Comany.
ders, of the appellant.
The fact last mentioned must be considered as
fully established, because the answer, in which it is
asserted, is responsive to a direct allegation contained in the bill, and is not contradicted by any evidence in the cause.
The answer of Hodgson to this bill is not evidence against the appellant. The general rule
which prevails in chancery is that'the answer Qf one
defendant cannot be used as evidence against his
co-d'efindant; and it is the opinion of the court that
this case does not furnish an exception to that ruhl.
The answer of an agent is not evidence against his
principal, nor are his admissions inrpais,unless where
they are a part of the res gesta.
As to the other fact upon which the appellant
relies, there is more difficulty. The bill states that
the judgment was recovered for the benefit of Straas
and Leeds. This is denied in the answer, and
thus far we may consider that fact as established in
favour of the appellant. The answer goes farther,
and alleges that the recovery was for the sole bene.fit of the respondent. But this allegation is not proved, and there is. no charge in the bill in relation to
that fact which the answer contradicts.
After all, it is very difficult to understand, from this
record, by what rules this cause was tried and
decided in the circuit court. It is stated in the re-

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
Leeds

V.

Company.

cord, that %thecause was set down for hearing on the
Sbill, answer, and exhibits. Now, if this was the real
state of the cause, there can be no doibt but that
the whole of the answer must be considered as true.

But it appears on another part of the record that a
general replication was filed, and that a Uommissiork
was allowed for taking depositions. These entries
are totally 'inconsistent with each other, unless the
latter entry should have been made in reference to
Hodgson's answer, which it immediately follows.
Whether setting down the cause for hearing on
the bill and answer amounted to a waiver of the replication, in case it was put in by both defendants,
need not be decided in this case, because it is the
opinion of this court that the record exhibits the proieedings in a shape so irregular and equivocal, that
no final decr~e can be made which may not be productive of injustice to one or the other of the parties.
Thetdecree of the circuit court, therefore, inust
be' reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to that court'to allow the parties to amend
ihe pleadings.
Decree reversed,

