OF THE UNITED STATES.

287

Upon the whole, we are of opinion that it was a
1817.
case of collusive capture, and that the decree be- "

Th, krgd.

low should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.,

(PRACTICE.)

The ARGO.
The provision in the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20., section 30., us to
taking depositions de bene esce, does not apply to cases pending in
this court, but only to cases in the district and circuit courts. Testimony by depositions can be regularly taken for this court only undet a commission issuing according to its rules.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts..
*Thiswas an information for a violation of the nonimportation acts. On the part of the appellants it was
alleged, that the vessel, (which sailed from P~rtland,
in the District of Maine, in April, 1813, and returned
to that port, laden with a cargo of molasses, in the
month of August, of the same year,) instead of going
to Cumana, her ostensible port of destination, had
proceeded to Guadaloupe, then a British possession,
and there took in her cargo. This was the sole
question of fact in the cause; on which the court below decreed restitution to the claimant, from which
decree an appeal was entered on behalf of the United States to this court.

288
1817.
T
Mlarch 7th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Webster, for the claimants, objected to the
reading of the depositions taken de bene essc, in this

cause. He argu6d, that there is no provision in the
laivs, by which testimony in writing can be taken, to
be used here, without a commission issuing from thi8
court. The provisions of the judiciary act of 1789,
ch. 20., section 30., do not extend to the supremo
court; and the act of 1803, ch. 93., does not prescribe any new mode of taking testimony, but only
declares that new evidence may be used in prize and
instance causes. Ex parte testimony may be taken to
be used in the courts below, but here i'may not; because this is the tribunal of last resort, andthe othetl
party might be surprised by the production of such
proof to his irretrievable injury. It was to guard
against this consequence that the laws omitted any
provision for such testimony)to be used in this court.
The .Altorney-General, contra, stated, that it had
been the uniform practice to take testimony .to be
used in this court in the same manner as if taken for
the district and circuit courts; and that the practice
had been uniformly acquiesced in. He argued, that
this court, sitting as a court of admiralty, had a right
to receive ex parle affidavits, in the same mariner aN
the circuit and district courts, or thecourts of admiralty abroad, who received affidavits and permitted
them to be read, whether taken ex parle or under a
commission.

March 11th.

Mr. Chief Justice MA*RsHALL delivered the opinioni
of the court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

On considering the 30th section of the judiciary
act of 1789, the court is of opinion that the provision, as to taking depositions de bene esse, does not apply to cases pending in this court. In terms, the
provision refers to cases in the district and circuit
courts. Testimony, by depositions, can be regu.
larly taken for this court only under a commission
issuing according to its rules. A practice has hitherto prevailed to take depositions de bene esse in

causes pending here, and, as no objection has been
made at the bar, it has passed sub silentio. Under
such circumstances we cannot say that the United
States are in default in taking depositions according
to the usual practice. We shall, therefore, continue
this cause to the next term, to enable the parties,
if &-ey choose, to take testimony under commissiono
issued under the rules prescribed by this .court.
Cause continued. '
a See the rule of the present
term as to the mode of taking depositions, by commission, out of
this court, or the circuit courts,
in causes of admiralty and- maritimejurisliction. This rule applies
both to prize and instance causes. Farther proof is bamissible
in the latter as well as the former.
(The William Wells, 7 Cranch.
22. The, Clarissa Claiborne, lb.

VOL.

107.) But it must not be understood that instance or revenue
causes stand on the same footing
with prize causes, in respect to the
inadmissibility of farther proof until they are heard on the original
evidence. Farther proof miiy be

exhibited in these cases, in the
first instance, and ifthe court have
doubts on the hearing, still farthei
proof may be ordered.

-0 q

2_89
1817.
TbeArgo.

