OF THE UNITED STATES.

This opinion is consistent with the case of the United States v. Hooe, (3 Cranch, 73.) although from the
report of that case it would seem to be otherwise.
The record has been examined, from which it appears that that case came up upon an appeal, and
not upon a writ of error.
The writ of error, in this case, must therefore be
dismissed.a
a The cause was afterwards re- continued for farther proof, as if
entered, by consent ofparies, and it had been removed by appeal.

The ARIADNE.--Goddard et al. Claimants.
The sailing under the enemy's license constitutes, of itsel4 anact of
illegality, which subjects the property to confiscation, without'regard to the object of the voyage or the port of destination.

APP.AL from the circuit court for the district of

Pennsylvania.
This vessel, belonging to citizens of the United
States, and laden with a cargo of flour also.belonging to citizens of the same, was captured on the
15th day of October, 1812, on a voyage from Alexandria to Cadiz, with a license or passport of protection -from the British admiral, -Sawyer. The
vessel and cargo were restored in the district court;

1817.

The
Ario.

144

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

but on appeal, sentence of condemnation was proby the circuit court, from which sentence
-nounced
The
A"iadne. an appeal was entered to this court.
1817.

"

F'eb. 14th.

Mr. G. Sullivan, for the appellants and claimants, offered to read farther proof, taken under the standing
rule of the court, (25th rule, Feb. term, 18J 6.)
Mr. Woodward, and Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the
captors, denied the authority of the rule under which
the farther proof was taken. They argued that
the act of congress did not provide for taking depositions to be used as farther proof in prize .causes,
except where the course of prize practice authorizes
it; that farther proof is never admissible, until the
cau-e is hearl on the. original evidence.
[Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL called on the claimant's cohnsel to show what facts the farther proof
tended to establish, and stated, that if the case could
be distinguished from the former determinations respecting licenses, a foundation would be laid for the
admission of the depositions as farther proof.]
Mr. Webster, for the appellants and claimants,
contended, that this case could be distinguished from
those which had been decided. In the case of the
Julia,; the court had, saiUl, "We hold, that the sailing on a voyage under the license and passport
of protection of the enemy, in furtherance of hi4
a 9 Cranch, 181.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-views or interests, constitutes such an act of il-

1817.

legality
M as subjects the ship and cargo to confis-

The

cation as prize of war; and that the facts of the

iadat.

present case afford irrefragable evidence of such an
act.of illegality." This proposition, as a doctrine
of law, would be equally true, leaving out all that
it contains relative to a license. A'voyage prosecuted in furtherance of the enemy's interests is
undoubtedly illegal, and it was on this illegality of
the voyage itself that the judgment of the court proceeded'. The court say they are satisfied from the
facts that the voyage was illegal. In the case now
before the court the captors insist, that the t ou t
shall shut out the facts connected with the voyage,
and go merely on presumption. The Julia cannot
be an authority for such a decision. The. Auroral
was decided expressly. on the grounds which had
been hWfore stated in the Julia, and carribs the doc.
trine no farthe, In the case of the Hiram' no evidence was offered on the part of the claimants to repel the presumption arising from the license. That
case then only decides, that from the possession of
the license the court may presume, until the contra,'y appears, that the voyage was in furtherance
of the enemy's objects.
In all these cases the court seems to have Tested
its decision on the .giound that the voyages, in
illch 'the vessfals wdre engaged, were, of them.
selves, illegal voyages, undertaken and 1,rosecutcd
for the promotion of the enemy's interests ; and that
b 8 Cranch, 283.
VOL. II.

r 8 Cranch, 444.
T

1 Whcat. 440.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146.

this illegality was shown 'by the facts which the
cases disclosed. But it is not understood to have
T
"The
Ariadne. decided, that it would hear no proof Ao make out
the innocence of the voyage, notwithstanding the
unfavourable inferences which might be drawn
from the possession of the license. In the present
case such proof is offered, and the claimants are ready
to show that the voyage originated in no intention to
further, and from its nature could not further,
the objects of tbe enemy. It was a voyage fron
Baltimore to Cadiz, 3vith flour,'at a tifne when neithe:' the British nor the Spanish armies drew suppli.s from that city. They expect to prove it tohave been, in all respects, as innodent as a voyage
from Baltimore to Boston, with a similar cargo.
Upon this application for permission to give proof,
and until the court should hear the proof; the only
question will be, whbther, in the most innocent
voyage which. can be imagined, the having such a
license is, per se, cause of confiscation; -and canno
in any case, by any evidence,', admit of explanation
orexcuse. On this point, the claimant's counsel wish
to be heard, unless the court considers itself a§ having recently solemnly decided the precise question.
We will contend, that although the possession of
such a license might create a presumption of unlaw.
ful trade, yet, like presumptions in other cases. it is
tapable of being repelled by .proof; and that the
judgment of the court must rest, after all, dn the real
-pature.and ob~ject of the yoyage, as disclosed by the
facts connected with it, and Dot on the inere terms of
the passport. In a case of this sort," the court will
.

.

OF THE JNITD STATES.

1.17

not incline to hold itself bound by former decisions
beyond- their clear
extent. "The
No case
• add manifest
"

1817.

appears to have gone so far as to prevent the court
from hearing proof of the lawfulness of the voyage,
independent of the license, or to have decided that
such proof, when full and satisfactory, should not
avoid confiscation.

Ariadne.

Mr. Woodward' and Mr. Ingersoll, on the other
side, were stopped by the court.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the court.
The view of the court is, that this case cannot be
distinguished from those already decided. It is
alleged that the flour was not actually destined to
the use of the enemy; but whether ariy part of it
went to his use or not, is immaterial It is, indeed,
possible that Cadiz might have fallen without the
aid of, thes6 supplies; and therefore, in fact, Great
Britain and her ally may have been relieved, by these
supplies, from the pressure of the war in that quarter. The court, however in the cases alluded to,
proceeded on a broader ground: all the judges who
concurred in those decisions were of opinion, that
the mere sailing under an enemy's license, without
regard to the object of the voyage, or the port of
destinktion, constituted, of itself, an act of illegality
-ihich subjected the property to confiscation. It
was an attempt by one individual of a belligerant
country to clothe himself With a neutral character

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

148
1817.

by the license of the other belligerant, and thus to
himself from the common character of his

Sseparate
The William

,i.g.

own country.
Sentence affirmed,

6STANCE COURT.)

The

'WILLIAMi KING--Davis et al.

Claimanto.

Under the embargo act of the 22d December, 18Q7, the words aq
embargo shall be laid," not only imposed upon the public officors
the duty of preventing the departure of registered or sea-letter ves.
sels on a foreign voyage, but, consequently. rendered them liable to
forfeiture under the supplementary act of the 9th of January, 1800.
In such case, if the vessel be actually and bona #do carried by forco
to a foreign port, she is not liable to forfeiture.
The court being of opinion, under the facts and circunstaicos of tio
case, that the capture under which it was alleged the vessel was
compelled to go to a foreign port was fictitious and collusive; tho
decree of condemnation in the court below was affirmed.

APPEAL

from the circuit court for the districL of

New-York.
A libel was filed against this vessel in the district
court of New-York, March, 1809, fbr -a breach of
the act of the 22d of D6cember, 1807, laying an
embargo, and the several acts supplementary thereto, alleging, that she proceeded from Baltimorex
without any clearance or permit, bound on a voyag.

