OV THZ VNTED STAT23

385
1h 17.
Raborg
V.

et a!. V. PEYTON.
oAB0RG

,An action of debt

Peyton.

will He by the'payee or endorsee of a bill u" ex-

chage, ag-ainst the ateptor, where it is.expressed to be for value

received.
flebt will lie by the payee of a note against a maker, where the note
is expressed to be for value receitled.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Columbia.
This cause was Argued by Mr. Jones, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mi. Tay/lor, for the defendant
in error.

March 14th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Ararch 15th.
court.

This is-an action of debt brought against'tbe de•fendant-in error, as acceptor of a bill of exchange by
the plaintiffs in error as endorsees. The declaration
alleges that the bill was drawn, accepted, and endorsed, for value received. The only question is,
whether debt lies in such a case,
The general principle has been very correctly
stated by Lord Chief Baron Comyn, that debt lies
upon every express contract to pay a sum certain and he adds, also, that it lies though there be only
an implied contract. (Com. Dig. Debt, a. 8. a. 9.)
But it has been supposed that this principle does not
apply to an action on a bill of exchange, even where
the suit is brought by the payee against the acceptor.
Von. 7..

3 C

386
1817.

%Raborg
V.
Peyton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and afortiorinot, where it is brought by the endorsee. It is admitted that in Hardres, 485., the court
held that debt does not lie by the payee of a bill of
exchange against the acceptor. The reasons given
for this opinion were, first, that there is no privity of
contract between the parties; and, secondly, that an
acceptance is only in the nature of a collateral-promiuc - or engagement to pay the debt of another,
whicl- does not create a dt'ty. It is very difficult to
perceive how it can be correctly affirmed that there
is no privity of contract between the payee and acceptor. There is, in the very nature or the engagement, a direct and immediate contract between them,
The consideration may not always, although it frequently does, arise between them; but privity of
contract may exist if there be an express contract,
although the bonsideration of the contract originated
aliunde. Besides, if one person deliver money to
another for the use of a third person, it has been
settled that such a privity exists that the latter may
maintain an action of debt against the bailee. (Harris v. De Bervoir, Cro. Jac. 687.) And it is clear
that an acceptance is evidence of money had and received by the acceptor for the use of the holder.
(Tatlock v. Harrs, 3 T. R. 174. Vere v. Lewis,
3 T. R..182.) It is also evidence of money paid
by the bolder to the use of the acceptor. (Ibid, and
Bailey on Bills, 164., 3d edition.) A privity of contract, and a duty to pay, would seem, in such case,
to be completely established; and wherever the
common law raises a duty, debt lies. The other
reason would seem not better founded. An accept-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ance is not a collateral engagement to pay the debt
1817.
pay
the
to
absolute
engagement
of another: it is an
Maxborg
v.
money to the holder of the bill; and the engagements of all the other parties are merely collateral. * toa
Primafacie, every acceptance affords a presumption
of funds of the drawer in the hands of the acceptor;
and is, of itself, an express appropriation of those
funds for the use of the holder. The case may, indeed, be otherwise; and then the accepto, in fact,
pays the debt of the drawer; but as between himself
and the payee it is not a collateral, but an original
and direct undertaking. The payee accepts the acceptor as his debtor, and he cannot resort to the
drawer but upon a failure of due payment of the bill.
The engagement of the drawer, therefore, may more
properly be termed collateral. Yet it has been
held, that debt will lie in favour of a payee against
the drawer in case of non-payment by the acceptor.
(Hard's case, Salk. 23. Hodges v. Steward, Skinn.
36.; and see Bishop v. Young, 2 Bos. & P2ll. 78.)
The reasons, then, assigned for the decision in Hardres are not satisfactory; and it deserves considera-'
tion that it was made at a time when the principles
respecting mercantile contracts were not generally
understdod.
The old doctrine upon this subject has been very
considerably shaken in modern times. An indebilalus assumpsit will now lie in favour of the payee
against the acceptor; and it is 1reneraliv true that
where such an action lies, debt will lie. And a
still stronger case is, that an acceptance is good evidence on a count upon, an iminsI conzputassent

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

(Israel v. Douglas, 1 H. B1. 239.,) which can only

Raborg
v

he upon the footing of a pr;-,ity of contract.

Feyton.

But the most important case is that of Bishop v,

Young, 2 Bos. & Pull. 78

It was therb hold, in

opposition to what was supposed to have been the
doctrine of former cases, that debt would lie by the
payee of a note against the maker, whore the note
wa- .xpressed to be for value received. That de,.
cision was given with measured caution, and the
court expressly declined to give any opinion upon
any but the case in judgment. The case in Hardrcs
was there discussed, and althoigh its reasoning was
not impugned, an authoritative weight was not attempted to be given to it. In general, the legal
predicament of the maker of a note is like that
of the acceptor of a bill. Each is liable to the
payee for the payment of the note or bill in the first
ihstande; and after endorsement, each incurs the
same liabilities. And if an action of debt -will lio
in favour of the payee of a note against, the maker
it is not eas7 to perceive any sound principle upon
which it ought to be denied against an acceptor of
a bill. The acceptance of a bill is just as much an
admission of a debt between the immediate parties
as the drawing of a note.
The case has been thus far considered as if the ac.
tion were brought by the paree against the acceptor.
And this certainly presents the strongest view in
favour of the argument. But in point of law every
subsequent holder, in respect to the acceptor of a
bill, and the maker of a note, stands in the same

predicqipent as the payee.

An acceptance is P4

OF TIiE UNITEZ STATES.

389

much evidence of money had and received by the
acceptor to the use of such holder, and of money
paid by such holder for the use of the acceptor, as

Raborg

Id. 184.

Poyton.

if he were the payee. (3 T. R. 172.

Grant v. Vaughan, 3 Burr. 1515.)
Upon the whole, we do not think that the authority in Hardres can be sustained upon principle;
and we see no inconvenience in adopting a rule more
consonant to the just rights of the parties as recognised in modern times. In so doing, we apply
the well-settled doctrine that debt lies in every case
where the common law creates a duty for the payment of money, and in every case where there is an
express contract ior the payment of money. We are,
therefore, of opinion, that debt lips upon a bill of exchange by an endorsee of the bill against the acceptor, when it is expressed to be for value received.
The case at bar is somewhat stronger; for the declaration expressly avers that the' bill was drawn, endorsed, and accepted for v'ale received, and the demurrer admits the truth of the averment.
This opinion must be certified to the circuit court
of the district of Columbia.
From the view which has been taken of the case it.
is unnecessary to consider whether the statute of Virginia applies to it or not.
Certificate accordingly.

1817.

V.

