OF THE UNITED STATES.
1817.
(COhiSitll

1WIW.. LAW.)

IN'Cluny
V
Silliman.

M'CLU -Y v. SILLIDLN.
tehscourt has not jurisdiction to issue a writ of mand'mus to the register of a land-office of the United States, commanding him to en-

ter the application of a party for certain tracts of land, according
to the 7th section of the act of the loth Ktay, 1800, "providing for

the sale of the lands of the United States northwest of the Ohio.
iand above the mouth of Kentucky river ;" which mandamus had
been refused by the supreme court of the state of Ohio, upon a
submission by the register to the jurisdiction of that court, being

the highest court of law Pr equity in that state.

Mr. harper moved for a mandanimus in this cause, March 13th:
to the defendant, as register.of the land-offic6 of the
United States, at Zanesville, in the state of Ohio,
commanding him to enter the application of the
plaintiff,: for certain tracts of land according to the
provisions of the 9th section of the act of Congress,
of'the 10th May, 1800, entitled; "An act providing
for the sale of the lands of the United States, in the
territory of the United States, northwest of the Ohio,
and above the mouth of Kentucky river." A rule
to showcause had been obtained in the suprdme
court of tne state of Ohio, (being the highest court
of law or equity of that state;) whereupon the defendant appeared, and- excepted to the jurisdiction
of the court: but this plea was afterwards waived,
and a case agreed between the parties, on which the
court ordered the rule to be discharged. Mr. Tarper now moved for a mandamus to issue from this
VOL. IT

s A

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

370
1817.
M'Cluny
V.

Si~liman.

court, upon the ground, that the case was within the
appellate jurisdiction of 4the court under the equity
of the judiciary act of 1789; that, althotigh the court
.,ad determined that it had no originaljurisdiction to
issue writs of mandamus to persons holding offico under the authority of the United States, yet it might
have an appellate jurisdiction to issue a mandamti to
such persons, where it had been refused by the highest court of law or equity bf a state, in a case drdw.
ing in question the validity of a statute of, or an' authority exdrcised under, the United States.
The motion was denied by the court.
Motion denied.*
a In the case of Mlarbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch, 137., 'the
court determined,'that having, by
the constitution, only an appellate jurisdiction. (except in cases
of ambassadors, &c.;) and'it being aij essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction, that it revises
and corrects the proceedings in
a cause already instituted, and
does not create that cause : That,
although a mandamils may be directed to courts, yet to issue such
a writ to an officer for the delivery
of a paper, was, in effect, the same
as to sustain an original action
for that paper, and, therefore,
seemed not to belong to appellate,
but to original jurisdiction; and
that, consequently, the authority
given to this court by the 13th
qotion of tse. judiciary act of

1789, to issue writs of mandamima
to "persons holdfiig office undoie
the authority of' the Unitec
States," was not inrrantcd by
the constitution. In MVlntiro v..
Wood, 7 Granwh, 5o4., it was docioed, that the power of ,the Cir.
cuit courts to issue writs of mandamus, is confined by the judiciary act of 1789, exclujively, to
those cases in which it may be
necessary to the exercise of their
jurisdiction. "That case wa
broughi up from the circuit court
of' Ohio, upon a certificate, that
the judges bf that court were divided in opinion upon the question
whether that court had the power to issue a writ of mandamug
to the register of a Iand-offico in
Ohio, commninding him to is.suo a
final certilictte ofpurchase, to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.plaintif, of certain lands in that provision
state? In delivering the opinion
of tbe court, Mr. Justice Joxsso stated that, "Had the 11th
section of the judiciary Act covered the whole ground of the consti.
tution, there would be much reason for exercising this power in
many cases, wherein some minis..
terial act is necessary to the completion of-an individual right, ariging-under the laws of the United
States, andthe 14th section of the
same act would sanction the issuing of the writ for sueh a purpose.
'Wit, although the judicial power
of the United States extends to
cases arising under the laws of
the tUnted'States, the legislature
has not (bought proper to delegate
Ifeeercise of that power to-its
circuit courts. except in certain
specified cases. When questions
arise underthase laws in the state
courts, and the party who claims
.a rinht or privilege under them is
unsuccissful, an appeal'is given
,p the supreme court, and this

-The Log i

the legislature has
1817.
thought sufficient, at present, for
all the political purpuses intended
The
London
to be answered by the clause of
Packet.
the constitution which relates to
this subject." The power of tho
supreme court to issue writs of
mandhmus to the other courts of
the United States, has been fre.
quently exercised. The United
States v. Peters, 5 Cranc, 115.
Livingston
v. Dorgenois. 7
Cranch, 577. But in the case of
Hunter'v. Martin's lessee, are,
vol. 1, p. 304., the court, in pro.
nouncing its opinion upon its appellate jurisdiction in causes
brought from the highest court of
law or equity of a state, deemed
it unnecessary to give any.apinion
on the question, whether this
court has authority to enforce its
own judgments on appeal, by is.
suing a writ of mandamus to the
state court, as the 'question was
not thought necessarily involved
in the decision of that cause. lb.
36 .

-PACKET. $

fno,'C101im'nt

It is the practice of this court, in prize causes, to hear the cause, in
the first instance, upon the evidence transmitted from the circuit

