CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

148
1817.

by the license of the other belligerant, and thus to
himself from the common character of his

Sseparate
The William

,i.g.

own country.
Sentence affirmed,

6STANCE COURT.)

The

'WILLIAMi KING--Davis et al.

Claimanto.

Under the embargo act of the 22d December, 18Q7, the words aq
embargo shall be laid," not only imposed upon the public officors
the duty of preventing the departure of registered or sea-letter ves.
sels on a foreign voyage, but, consequently. rendered them liable to
forfeiture under the supplementary act of the 9th of January, 1800.
In such case, if the vessel be actually and bona #do carried by forco
to a foreign port, she is not liable to forfeiture.
The court being of opinion, under the facts and circunstaicos of tio
case, that the capture under which it was alleged the vessel was
compelled to go to a foreign port was fictitious and collusive; tho
decree of condemnation in the court below was affirmed.

APPEAL

from the circuit court for the districL of

New-York.
A libel was filed against this vessel in the district
court of New-York, March, 1809, fbr -a breach of
the act of the 22d of D6cember, 1807, laying an
embargo, and the several acts supplementary thereto, alleging, that she proceeded from Baltimorex
without any clearance or permit, bound on a voyag.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to Exuma, one of the Bahama islands, where she
took in a cargo of six thousand bushels of salt, with
which she returned to New-York. The claimants
admitted the fact of going to Exuma, and bringing
away the salt, but alleged that it was from necessity; that the brig was regularly bound to Bostonbut, being captured soon after she left Hampton
Roads, by a British privateer, was sent to Jamaica,
where she sold the cargo of flour which she had bn
'board, the government of that colony not allowing it to be brought off That she then went to
Exuma.

The testimony in the case exhibits the following
summary: About the middle of October, 1808, the
vessel arrived ait
Baltimore from Boston. At Baltimore she took on board a cargo of upwards of sixteen hundred barrels of flour, and sailed again,
ostensibly for Boston, abbut the first of November.
On reaching Hampton Roads, she stopped a few
flays, being, as was asserted, wind bound. While
there, a British privateer, of ten guns and twelve
men, called the Ino, arrived in the Roads. On the
eighth of the month the brig put to sea, the Ino following her. On the afternoon of the same day the
Ino captured her, within ten leagues of the shore,
putting 4 prize master and one man on board. The
yessels then proceeded for the West Indies. During
the voyage no attempt was made by the crew either
to retake the brig or ioescape, though favourable opportunities were not wanting. Her crew consisted of
nine persons. After a short separation from the
privateer, thp brig arrived, off St. Nichola Mole.

1817.
The

illiar

King..

CASES IN THE SUPREDIE COLUT

Here the privateeer joined her, and thence the tWo
The Wifliam went to Kingston. No prize proceedings were in-.
stituted -against the brig; but, on the contrary, the
Ki..
supposed captors relinquished all claim to, their
prize, on reaching Kingston. From Kingston she
1817.

went to E,~uma, as above stated.

The district

court, on the hearing, pronounced a sentence of condemnation. A decree of affirmance, proforma, was
enteked'in the circuit court, from wbich tne cause
was brought, by-appeal, to this court.
.artCh 4th.

Mr. Hofman, for the appellants and calmanti,
stated, that this case was governen oy the authority
of the Short Staple ;a the William, King having sailed
from Hampton roads in company with that vessel,
and both were seized by the British ,privateer Ino,
and compelled to go to theWest Indies. The two
cases are. perfectly coincident in their circumstances,
-and restituton having been deerded in the case of
the Short Staple; the same judgment must, connpquently, be pronounced in the present'case. He argued. that the -whole plan and system of the revenue
laws irdicated that it W'as no~t the legislative inten,
tion to cumulate a forbitu v of the ship (being a
registered vessel) upon tho penalty o" the bond,
which had been given for ri-.anding the c(*o in the
United States.
The .4ttorae-Generaland Mr. IRopkinson, vontra.

The court expressly overruled the poitit wAade as to
a 9 Cranch, 55.

OF THE UNITED STATEg.

the construction of the embargo lwsa, in the case of
-the

Short Staple,0

151
1817.

although that case was determined, TbeWillit

on its peculiar circumstances by a majority of the
cou't, in favour of the claimants. But the restitutionof the Short Staple, on tie facts of. her case,
rorms no ground for the acquittal .of the William
King, even should2the facts be precisely similar.
Principles of law form precedents. But an inference from evidence is not conclusive as to facts, in
,another cause, wh6ther the testimony be the same,
or djflerent certainly not if it be different.

Mr. Hofman, in reply, argued, that the court
could not, without judicial inconsistency, decide this
case differently from that of the Short Staple, utiless
there was"some.substantial and important difference
in the facts of the two cases; that the opinion of a
majority of the court was the opinion of the court,
and a rule of conduct, whether formed upon an abstract point of law, or upon a mixed question of fact
and law; and that to maintain the contrary position
would be to assent to an assertion, which ha been
hazarded in another place, that the decisions of thio
court are not binding as legal precedents on theinelves and on others.
b In delivering the opinion of
the court in that case. Mr. Chief
1Ustoe MAHALr. stated'that this
-point bhd "been pressed with
great earnestness by thecounsel
for the claipants; but the'court
is not convinced that his exposi-

tion of -the embargo acts i

sound one. On this point, however, it will, be unnecessary td
give an opinion; becauee we
think the necewsity under which
the clairunhts justify their goi
into St. Nichola Mole, issustained by the proofs in the cause."

a 9 Cranc/h 6M

W u.

CASES IN THE SUPREDIM

COURT

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the

1817.
Scourt.

The William

King.

Feb. 14th.

This case comes up on appeal from the circuit

court of New-York.

The vessel is the same which

makes her appearance in the case' of the Short
Staple, decided in this court at February term,
1815; and it has been bontended that the acquittal
in that case is conclusive upon this,

But we think otherwise. It might with more propriety be contended, that had0 the hearing of this
cause come on together 'with that of the Short Staple, the latter would have found much more difficulty in escaping. As it was, me division of the
court, and the acknowledgment of the judge who
delivered the opinion show, that the vessel in that
case was "hardly saved." In the present cause
there is very material evidence which did pot appear in, and could not affect the former. We shall,
therefore, dispose of this case altogether upon the
evidence that is peculiar to it.
It will be recollected that this vessel, as well as
the Short Staple, were libelled for a violation of the
embargo act of the 22d of December, 1807,' and the
supplementary act of the 9th of January, 1808, the
former of which enacts, "that an embargo shall belaid on all ships and vessels in the ports of the United States, bound-on a foreign voyage," and the hitter
forfeits the vessel that shall proceed to any foreign
port or place, "contrary to the provisions of this act,
or. of -the act to which this is a supplement." As
the majority of the court were of opinion that no offence was committed' in the case of the Short Staple,

OF TH. .UNITEDJ STArtS.

it was unnecesssar, to express any opinion on the 1917.
application of the law. They, therefore, waived it. "
But in this case it becomes necessary to lay down
Mirg.
-the following principles. There can be no doubt
that if the William King was carried off to Jamaica
by actual force, it was an act which wanted the
oncurrence of the will, and, therefore, innocent.
But, whatever is done in fraud of a law is done in
violation of it; and if a vessel, with an original-intention to go to a foreign port, complied with the requisition necessary -to obtain a clearance -on a voyage
coastwise, this is-but the device by which she eludes
the force that would otherwise have prevented her
departure fiom the port. .Wa's, then, the sailing to
'a foreign port-a prohibited act under the embafgo,
law to a registered or sea-letter vessel ? If so, the
commission of buch an act was a cause of forfeiture
under the act of January 9, 1808.' And here the only
doubt is, whether the words, "an embargo shall be
laid,," operate any further than. to impose, a duty
upon the public officers to prevent the departure.ol
a registered or sea-letter vessel on a foreign voyage.
Thelanguage of the act is certainly not very happily
chosen; but when we look into the definition of the
word, embargo we find it to mean "a prohibition to
sail." Substituting this periphrasis for the word
embargo, it.
reads "a prohibition to sail shall be imposed," &c. or, in other words, "such vessels shall
,be prohibited.to sail;" which. words, had they been
used in,
the act, would have leftno scope for doubt.
-The only facts which it will be necessary t9 no'VOL. 1j.

T.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tice in this case, in order to show the grounds of our
idecision, are these:
Tih Williaml
The Ino, the supposed capturing vessel, sailed
King.
from Guernsey for Boston in September, 1808.
She bore an English comnmission, and is commonly
called a British privateer. But as there exists no
distinction, that we know of, between a privateer
and letter of marque but what results from their
equipments and habits..; and as, although she mounted ten guns she had but twelve men, and confessedly came to Boston for a cargo, we are induced to
thifik that her habits were rather commercial than
roving. These three vessels lay in Boston harbour
some time together. The two brigs sailed within a few days. of each other, bound to BaltimorQ
for a cargo of flour, and the Ino sailed soon after.
As the embargo prevented her taking in a cargo,
as such, the master cleared out for the Cape of Good
Hope, and was permitted to take in a large stock of
provisions as for a long voyage. But the master admits that he was, in fact, bound to Jamaica, and sailed for that port, and afccted to be destined to the
Cape 'in order to get permission to take in a large
stock of provisions, because he knew provisions in
the West Indies to be dear. In the mean time, the
two brigs had taken in a cargo at Baltimore, and
cleared out for Boston. But, as they allege, on account of contrary winds, they put into Hampton
Roads, where they.re mained fi'om th.lst of November to the 8th of the same month. Whilst the two
brigs lay in Hampton Roads, the Ino also put into
the same port, and the reason alleged for doing so
1817.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

-is, that after leaving the port of*Boston she encoun-

1817.

tered .high Winds, which carried away her main-

boom, and finding herself in the latitude of the
Capes of Virginia, she put in to obtain a spar for a
boom. But it is not a little remarkable here, that
both Betts, the lieutenant of the Ino, and Southcote,
the owner, who was on board, agree that the prevailing winds were north and west. And how a vessel bound from Boston to Jamaica, a course nearly
south east, should, after several days under high
north-westerly winds find herself in the latitude of
the Capes of Virginia, seems unaccountable, unless
we suppose that she was beating up, with intent to
touch at Norfolk, instead of bearing away for her
port of destination.
Three days after the arrival of the Ino the two
brigs sailed; the fno immediately pursued, overhauled them before night, put a prize-master and one
man on board the William King, a prize-master and
two men in the other, and ordered tfiem for Jamaica, with instructions to rendezvous at St. Nicholas
Mole if separated. Being overhauled on this voyage by the Garland frigate, the Ino fled, and the
brigs were ,examined. But being liberated, they
proceeded to Cape Nicholas Mole, where the lno
joined them, and leaving the Short Staple there,
the Ino and this vessel proceeded off Jamaica. Off
that place the Ino restored a man which she had taken from the William King, and putting also the
owner, Southcote, into her, she bore away, whilst
the William King entered the harbour of Kingston.
There she was given up to the master, who, as it is

Muig.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
'heWilliam
IEinT.

alleged, was refused permission by the government
to sail with his cargo, was obliged tb sell it, and obrained about twenty dollars clear per barrel for
what had cost five or six dollars at Baltimore.
So far the evidence stands unimpeached; it constituted, in fact, the defence of the claimant. But,
at the trial below in this cause, a witness was produ.
ced in behalf of the prosecution, of the name of Gustaff Forsberg, who went out mate of the William
King, and who, among a variety of facts, testifies to
the following:
That when the William King sailed from Boston
she carried off a Vineyard pilot, not having been able
to land him; and that previous to her leaving Baltimore, this pilot was put on board the Federal George,
Captain Field, then taking in a cargo of flour for
Boston, with a request from the master of the William King, to return him to Boston, and the brit
then sailed without a Boston pilot.
That, after putting into Hampton Roads, the niasters of the two brigs went up to Norfolk, and did
not return until the eyeniig before they sailed; that
this was the true cause of their detention in that
port, as vessels went to sea whilst they lay there,
and the winds would haye admitted of their doing
the same.
That, after the capture by the Ino, this witness
intimated his intention to do no more duty, as he was
then a prisonrer; and was prevailed upon by the
master to return to duty, by having his wages raised
from nine to twenty dollars, which alteration wNs eny
tered on the shipping articles.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1817.
That the man put on board with the prize-master
Teia
seaman,
a
not
was
Kirkland,
Colonel
was called
and that Captain R. Daniel, of- the William King, Kin.
still navigated the vessel, the prize-master exercising
no authority, and this witness keeping the log-book,
under the directions of the captain.
That at sea, in calm weather, the master and
owner of the Ino, and the masters of the two brigs,
met and amused themselves in -each others vessels p
that, on their sailing from Jamaica, they 'took on
board a number of articles, some of which were
marked Ino; that Southcote, the owner of the no,
came out with them as passenger; that the day
after they left Kingston they fell in with the lno,
and put on- board of her her owner, and the articles
-taken on board at Kingston, with the exception of
certain parcels of bagging which they took out with
them to Exuma for the purpose of taking in salt.
And, lastly, that after their arrival in New-York,
the master decoyed him on board a packet, and
hurried him off, without his clothes, to Boston, and
particularly cautioned him to be on his guard to say
nothing to any one but what had been entered on the
log-book, and informing him that if he remained in
New-York he would be put in jail.
It is evident that these circumstances, taken together, afford very ample ground for condemnation.
There could be no reason urged for putting the
Vineyard pilot on board another vessel which was
not yet ready for sea, if the master of this vessel
bad really intended to return to Boston; and abandoning their vessels for five or six days in Hampton

158

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Roads, looks too much like waiting for the expected
whilst leaving the navigation of this vessel,
The William
King.
and. the keeping of the log-book, to the original
minster and mate, presents a state of confidence inconsistent with all' idea of hostility. And this confurther conspicuous in all the subsequent
fidence is,
occurrences to which this witness te'stifies. Independently of his testimony, the case is loaded with
suspicious circumstances, but his testimony leads to
,conviction.
Aware of this, the counsel for the claimants
have
contented themselves with attacking his credibility.
But, after duly weighing all the circumstances insist.
ed on in the argument, we are of opinion, that as to
several material facts, his testimony pointed out the
means of detection if it was not consistent with the,
truth. If the Vineyard pilot, for instance, was not
put on board the Federal'George, the pilot and the
•-master of the George might both have been resorted
to, to detect the falsehood. Or if the change of
wages, from 9 to 20 dollars, did not take place,
nothing was easier than lo refer to the shipping
articles themselves to disprove the fact. On settling
his account with the owners, (the present claimants,)
that document, or a copy of it, or a charge founded
on it, would necessarily have been put in their possession. If the brig was not converted from the
prize into the handmaid of the Ino, after leaving
Jamaica, the owner and officers of the Ino, who appear to have been "nothing loath" to appear in behalf of this claim, could have been resorted to to
deny it. And, if there was no" foundation for the
1817.

'convoy;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

charge of hurrying the witness off from New-York
in the manner he has sworn to, it would have been
easy for Captain Daniel to have resorted to witnesses to prove that he left that place under other, and
what, circumstances, or if in a packet, to prove, by
some one on board the packet, that there was no
foundation-for the story.
Admitting this last fact to be true, it capts suspicion over the whole conduct of Capt. Daniel, and
lessens the weight of his testimony so far as it stands
contradicted by this witness. This point was much
considered, and admitted by this court in the case of
the General Blake, which I find is omitted from the
Reports of the last term.
Yet it cannot be denied, that the claimants have
one very just ground for attacking the credibility of
Forsberg. We do not attach much importance to
his having omitted most of the facts sworn to on -his
ast examination, because it does not appear that he
was ever interrogated to them, and he might well
have been unconscious of their having any material
bearing on the case. But, both in the protest at
Jamaica, and on his examination in the district court,
he swears that the detention in Hampton Roads was
produced by contrary winds. Whatever objections
may be made to the protest in this case, that lie gave
this evidence in the district court there could be no
doubt. It is a feeble excuse for a witness to allege
that he swore incautiously, or under the influence or
instruction of any one, iawhatever relation they may
have stood to each other. The court, therefore.
have hesitated upon the question whether they should

i817.
Ki.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

aot, on this ground, reject altogether the testimony
of this witness. And nothing has induced them to
TheWilliamn
sustain it but' the consideration that, on all other
King
pdints, 'the testimony itself pointed to the means of
its own detection, and, on this point, it is not very
material if it be true, as he swears, that the master
was all the time at Norfolk, withot the ship's boat,
inDead of being on board to take advantage of the
first wind that oflred.
This circumstance shows but little anxiety on the
subject of the wind, and leads to the supposition,
that some other object sanctioned this detention in
the eyes of his owner. If this fact, also, had not
been true, although the course of the winds could
not, with much facility, have been proven, there could
have been but little difficulty in proving the falsehood of sucn a charge relative to a voyage which
was so much a sdbject of conversation at that time.
Upon the whole, the court are of opinion that the
capture was fictitious, and that the decision below
must be affirmed.
1817.
'w-IWia

Decree affirmed.

