259

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laid by law on the rectification of spirits, nor does it
appear that any was contemplated; and, if the process is confined to the rectification of spirits already
distilled, no penalty is incurred, although a license is
not previously obtained. It was evidently the intention of the legislature to exact one duty only on the
distillation of spirits.
It is the opinion of this court, that there is no error in the judgment of the circuit court.
This opinion is given on the request of the Attorney-General; it being probable that the same question may frequently occur. But, as this cause is
improperly brought before this court by ivrit of error, having been first carried from the district to
the circuit court by the same process, it is dismissed.
Writ of error dismissed.
a Vide 7 Cranch, 103.

The

does not lie to cafry to the su-

United States v. Goodwin. lb. preme court a civil cause which
-287. The United States v. Gor- has been carried from the district
don et at.; in which cases it was court by writ of error.
4etermined, that a writ of error

J. C. F.

CHIRAC

V. the Lessee of A.

F. Carn.zc et. aL

J. B. C., a native of France. migrated into the United States in 1793,

and became domiciled iu Maryland. On the 22d September, 1795,
he took the oaths of citizenship acconling to an act of Ascembly
9f Maryland, passed in 1779, and the next day received a convey.

1817.
Chirar

v

Chirac.

260

6
CASES IN THE SUPR EM E COURT

1817.

ance in fee of lands inthat State. On the 6ith July, 1790, he wan

,
Chirac
v.
Chirac,

naturalized under the laws of the United States; and, in July,
1799, died intestate, leaving no legitimate relations, other than the
plaintiffs in ejectment, who were natives and residents of Franco.
Upon the supposition that the lands were escheatable, he stale of
Maryland conveyed'them to his natural son J.C. F. C., with a saving of the rights of all persons claiming by devisok or descent from
the intestate; under which grant, J.C. F. C. took possession of
the lands, and remained in possession until the ejectment was
bre",ht. In March, 1809. the defendants in error, the heirs at law
of J. B C., French subjectsbrought an action of ejectment for the
lands i. question; and, in May 1815, obtained a verdict in their
favour, and a judgment thereon, which was affirmed.
Itwas held, that the power of naturalization is exclusively in congress ; but that the treaty of amity and commerce between the
Ujited States and France, of 1778, art. 11, enabled the subjects of
Fiance to purchase and hold lands in the United States.
Quxre, What was the effect of this treaty under the Confedera.
tion ?
J. B. C. having died, seized in fee of the lands in question; his heirs
being French subjects; the treaty of 1778 having boen abrogated'
and the act of Marylaiid, of 1789, permitting the lands of a French
subject, who had become a citizen bf Maryland, dying intestate,
to descend on the next of kin being non-naturalized Frenchmen,
with a proviso vesting the land in the State, if the French heirs.
should not, within ten years, become resident citizens of the State,
or convey the lands to a citizen: it was determined, that the timb
for the performance of this condition having expired before the action was brought, the estate was terminated, unless supported in
some other manner than by the act of M aryland.
But the convention of 1800, between the United States and France,
enabling the people of one country holding lands in the otlhor, to
dispose'of the same by testament, or otherwise, and to inherit lands
in the respective countries without being obliged to obtaini letters
of naturalization; it was held that it rendered the performance of
this condition a useless formality, and that the conventional rule
applied equally to the case of those who took by 'descent, under
the act, as to those who acquired by purchase, without its aid.
The further stipulation in the convention " that in caso the laws al
either of the two states should restrain strangers from the exercise
,f the rights of property with re3pect to real estate, such real estate may be sold, or otherwise disposed of, to citizens or inhabitantu

OF THE UNITED STATES.
of the country where it may be," was held not to affect the rights
of a French subject who takes, or holds, by the convention, so as
to deprive him of the power of selling to citizens of this country;
and was held to give to a French subject, who had acquired lands
by descent, or devise, (and, perhaps, in any other manner,) the
rigbt, during life, to sell, or otherwise dispose thereof, if lying in a
utate where lauds purchased by an alien, geperally, would be immediately escheatable.
Although the convention of '1800 has expired by its own limitation,
it was determined that the instant the descent was cast on a French
subject during its continuance, his rights became complete under
it, and could not be affected by its subsequent expiration.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Maryland.
John Baptiste Chirac, a native of France, migrated into the United States, in the year 1793, and
settled in Ma-ryland. On the 22d of Septenber,
1795, he took the oaths of citizenship, according to
the form prescribed\ by an act of Assembly of the
state of Maryland, passed in the year 1779, and the
next day received a conveyance in fee of land lying
within that state.
On the 6th of July, 1798, he was naturalized as
prescribed by the laws of the United States; and,
in July, 1799, he died intestate, leaving no legitimate relations other than the plaintiff s , who are natives and residents of France.
Supposing the lands of whioh he died seized to
be escheatable, the state of Maryland conveyed them
to John Charles Francis Chirac, his natural son,
with a saving of the rights of all persons claiming
by devise or descent from the intestate. Under this
act, John Charles Francis Chirac took possession of
the land of. his father, and has remained in possession ever since.

261
1817.
Chirac
v.
Chirac.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.,

IiMarch, 1809, the defendants in error,. who are

heirs at law ofJohn Baptiste Chirac, and subjects
of the king of France, brought their ejectment for
the land of which their ancestor died seised; and

Sthe

Chirac.
V.

Chirac.

inMay, 1815, under the instruction of the court, to
which exceptions wdre taken, obtained a verdict in
their favour, on which a judgment was renderod ;
which judgment is now before the court on')a writ
of error.
/
The act of Assembly of the state of Maryland,
on the construction of which the cause mainly turned,
was passed in 1780, and is entitled ' An act lo-de,
clare and ascertain the privileges of the subjects of
France residing within this state." The 1st seclion gives to Fr ncb subjects the capacity of hold.
ing lands within the state, on certain conditions.
The 2d section gives to those subjccts who may be
resident in the state, all the rights of free citizens
thereof. The 3d section contains a proviso restricting and limiting the privileges granted by the act,
and declaring that nothing therein contained "shall:
be construed to grint to those who shall continue
subjects of his most christian majesty,and not qualify
themselves as-citizens of this state, 'anyright to purchase or hold lands, or real estate, but for their r-..
spective lives, or for years." The 4th section enacts,
that if any French subject who shall become a citizen of Maryland "shall die intestate, the natural
kindred of such decedent, whether residing in France
or elsewhere, shall inherit his or her 'eal estate, in
like manner as if such decedent, and his kindred,
were the citizens of this state," with a proviso, that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

whenever any French-subject shall, by virtue of the 1817.
act, become seised in fee of any real estate, his or
Chime,
V.
hcr estate, "after the term of ten years be expired,
Chi,,1.
of
seised
person
the
unless
'shall vest in the state,
the same, shall, within that time, either come and
settle in, and become a citizen of this state, or enfeoff
thereof, some citizen of this or some other of the
United States of America."
Mr. Harper, for the plaintiff in error, and the de- March Sa.
. The act of congress
fendant in the court below.
in consequence of
the
French
treaties,
abrogating
the non-fulfilment of their stipulations by France,
and the second article of the convention of 1800,
stipulating for farther negotiation respecting" the
-claims of the United States for indemnities, and ifespectng the revival of the treaties, drew after them
a virtual repeal of the act of Maryland of 1780;
that act being founded on the repiprocity stipulated
-by the treaties. The intervention of the local legislat ures was deemed necessary to carry into
effect treaties made by the national government
under the confederation. The legislature of Maryland understood it to have been so, for their act is not
a literal transcript of the treaty of 1778; it limits
and controls the reciprocity stipulated by-the treaty.
As nobody at that period could conceive the possibility that we should ever case to maintain the relations of friendship and alliance with France, no time
for the duration of the act was limited; but when
the treaty was annulled the act fell with it. Consequently, the heirs of John Baptiste Chirac had no

264'"
1817.

""
Chimeo
Y.
ChrC.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

inheritable quality. 2. He acquired no capacity to
hold by his 'naturalization under the local law, since,
by the constitution, congress alone has the power
of prescribing uniform rules of naturalization; and
the act of Maryland is a general naturalization law,
not a special act authorizing aliens to hold lands, or
conferring other particular privileges. It the states
could make such a law, the constitution of the United States would be completely evaded; as the
citizens of one state are entitled to all the privileges
and immunities of citizens in every other state. 3.
The heirs of John Baptiste. Chirac have riot conformed to the provisions of the act of Maryland by
settling in the state and becoming citizens, nor by
enfeoffing some person of the lands within ten years
from the time when they became seised; and, consequently, their right was gone before the ejectment
was brought. The term seisin in the act means,
not a seisin in fact, a pedis possessio, but a legal
seisin; and the, ten years' limitation begins to run
after the seisin h6 law. The technical word enfcoff,
as here used, merely refers to the alienation of the
land, which may be by bargain and sale, or any other
usual mode of conveyance known in the state; and
it was not necessary that they should come into the
state in order to execute any of these conveyances,
or even to make a feoffment.
Mr. Winder and Mr. Xercer, contra. 1. The
constitution of the United States, and the laws'made
under it, do not, ipsojure, repeal a state law relativo
to the same matter, but on'y annul such paris of the
latter as are inconsistent with the former. The re-

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

spective states still preserve the right of making nataralization laws, giving certain civil rights to foreigners, without conferring universal'political citizenship. 2. The act of Maryland was not founded
on the treaty merely; the legislature had other objects of policy-in view, than 4 mere compliance with
Ihe stipulations of the treaty; the continuance of the
act was wholly independent of the treaty. It is a
part of the code of Maryland, abstracted from the
treaty, and would exist with or without the treaty.
It consequently remained in full force and "vigour
notwithstanding-the abrogation .of the French treaties in 1798. The time of limitation contained in
the act, within which the party is obliged to come
and reside in the state, or to enfeoff a citizen, d6es
not refer to a mere seisint in law. The term "seised,'"
if unconnected with otli& expressions, qualifying
its import, might, indeed, imply a legal seisin
only; but with the injunction to "enfeoff," it nccessarily imports a seisin in fact, because such a seisin
isnecessary to enable-the pa-ty to make a feoffment.
4. But the convention of 1800, which was concluded whilst the defendant in error held an estate
in fee simple ,under the act of Maryland, determinable by their failure to comply with one of the alternative conditions contai*ned in that act, is conclusive
of this cause. That convention enables the citizens
of both countries to dispose by testament, donation,
or otherwise, of their property, whether real or~personal, situate in the territories of either, to whonisa.

-everthey plase; and to succeed as heirs ab intestato,
VOL.

R-L

1817.
Chirac'

V.

Ch.c.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Chirac

v.

Chirac.

without being naturalized.a The first clause of the
'ives a new power to dispose of property
held by citizens of either- country in the dominions
of the other, viz. the power to dispose by testament,

Sarticle

or in any other manner. It, of course, repeals so
much of the act of Maryland as restricts the power
of disposing to the mode of feoffment only; and not
only does not prescribe any period of time 'vithin
which it is to be done, but necessarily gives the lifetime of the party, since it allows a disposition by
last will and testament, which can only take effect
after the death of the party. The second clause
places the citizens of both countries in the same predicament as to inheritances as if they were naturalized. The defendants in error were, by the laws of
the state, heirs to John Baptiste Chirac, subject to
a liability to have their estate defeated unless they
became naturalized. This clause superceded the
necessity of naturalization, or, rather, naturalized
thein fbr this particular purpose. The further stipulation "that in case the laws of either of the two
states should restraifi strangers from the exercise of
the rights of property with respect to real estate,
such real estate may be sold, or-otherwise disposed
of, to citizens or inhabitants of the country where it
may be," can only refer to the laws made by the
two contracting parties, i. e. France and the United
States'; not any particular state of our domestic confederacy: for the states of the union, as separate
and 'independent sovereignties are not.included.
a Art. 7th.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

267

N act of theirs could affect the donveqtion. It is
to them the supreme law;, and no state law incompatible with it can be valid: therefore, that part of
the act 'of Maryland which prescribes only one
mode of disposing of real property belonging to
Frenchmen, is void." The treaty secures the right
to dispose of it in any mode.
Mr. JiIartin, in reply. 1.It is a general rule
adopted by sovereign states, that the real property
within their dominions should not be owned by
aliens; not that.this universal rule is considered as
a deprival of property, the suffering a penalty, or
the incurring of a forfeiture, bt as an absolute disability to acquire, to hold, and to enjoy the prgpcrty, founded -upon reasons of public policy.' The
act of Maryland merely dispenses pith this rule to
a certain extent, and upon certain conditions: it does
not inflict any penalty or forfeiture on the kindr.d of
the decedent; nor create ip them any disabilities;
nor deprive them of any property; nor infringe any
of their rights whatsoever. Consequently, they
must show that they have strictly complied with
the terms on whichthis boon has been granted 2.
The moment the French subject, on whom the act
confers a capacity to hold, dies, his kindred innerit;
and the moment the kindred inherit,, they become
seised in fee; and the moment they become seised
in fee, the time of limitation begins to run, within
b 1 Bac. Abr. Alien. Leter c. 132.

Brown's Parl.Ca,. 91.

In .Notis, Parker,144.

The Attorney-General v. Duplessis.

5

1C17.
Chiiac

V.

Chirac.

268
1817.

%Chirac
V.
CbiraO.

CASES IN "THE $UPREI E COURT

which they must either come and settle in tbe'stat, 0
&c., or enfeoff a citizen. The policy of the legislature in prescribing.his limitation was, that not mbre.
than. ten years should, elapse from the decease of
the French proprietor, beforo the lands should again
be held and owned by a,citizen, whose, interest it
might' be to cultivate and improve the same for, the,
benefit of th e community. It was, therefore, per.
fectly immaterial b. what tchlcalit~odLeof.onveyance the property should be conveyed, atidwh0ther
the seisin of the -heirs should be a seisin in thotj.ora.
legal seisin. , The 'conveyance might be by:nny sufficient deed; and ,evna fiqfmnt might be'nido by
an ,att6tney, ,without obtaining "aetiiat pbssessiobrv
3. The stipulation in the convention of P'0 dosa
not; of itself, g! .to French'.citizens property which
they had not opfore, nor enlakge or altOr-their es.
"tates in the lands held by them. They must,have
been legally entitled to property when the conventiorn
took,placb,.or imust have leg'ally. acquired it tqfler,
war&s,.- The ancestor of the defendants in error had
in his lifetime Afee simpld, and died'seised thertof;:
but'of'this.estate' he was seiged, not as a Frenhi
citizen, but as'a citizen of Matyland;, and upon hid
dei,.h his heirs, being-aliens, could have had nolegal
claim to the'property, and it would have escheatod
to the stat, -had it not been for the act. of Maryland.
Under that act they became geis'd of an estate in
fee simple, but'conditional and liable to be defeated,'
unless they comiplied with the terms of the act.
Had they, within. the ten years; become citizens of
thq state, they would not have wanted the protec,

I OF' THE UNITED STATES.

6on of the treaty, for their -property would have
been protected as that- of "citizens. Had they, within the same time, enfeoffed a citizen, the estate would
have vested in him, and the protection of the treaty
would have been equally superfluous. As the heirs
performed neither-the one nor the other of these alternative conditions, their estate was-defeated at the
expiration of the term of ten years, and became
vbsted in the state. From that time the defendants
in error have not been seised of any estate to be
ope'rated on by the convention; and, consequently,
it can"give them no right to recover the lands
either from the stare; or from the plaintiff in error,
who claims under the state.

1s7:

Chime

.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion .arch 116t
of the court.. -"
The first point made by the plaintiff in error is,
that the estate of which John Bapti.te Chirac died
seised was, in his lifetime, escheatable, because it
was acquired before he became a citizen of the
United States; the law of the state of Maryland,
according to whic-h he took the oaths of citizenship,
being virtually repealed by the constitution of the
United States, and the act of naturalization enacted
by congress.
That the power of naturalization is txclusively in
congress does not seem to be, and certainly ought
not to be, controverted; but, it is contended, that
tie act of Maryland, passed inthe year 1780,," To
declare and ascertain the privileges of the subjects
of France residing within that state," gives to thoe

270

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

subjects the power of holding land on the perform%
ance of certain conditions prescribedin that act.
Chirac
The 2d section gives to the subjects of France
V.
who may reside within the state of Maryland, all
Chirac.
1817.

the rights of free citizens of that state. The 3d
section contains a proviso restricting the privileges
granted by the act, and declaring that nothing therein contained shall be construed to grant to those
who should continue subjects of his most christian
majesty, and not qualify themselves as citizens of
this state, any right to purchase or hold lands, or
real estate, but for their respective lives or for
years.
This act certainly requires that a French subject,
who would entitle himself, under it, to hold lands in
fee, should be a citizen according to the law which
might be in force at the time of acquiring the estate.
Otherwise he could only purchase or hold for life or
years. John Baptiste Chirac was not a citizen according to that law when he purchased the land in
controversy.
It is unnecessary to inquire into the consequences
of this state of things, because we are all of opinion
that the treaty between the United States and
France. ratified in 1778, enabled the subjects of
France to hold lands in the United States. That
treaty declared that "The subjects and inhabitants
of the United States, or any one of them, shall not
be reputed Aubains (that is aliens) in France."
"They may, by testament, donation, or otherwis.e,
.dispose of their goods, moveable and immoveable, in
favour of such persons as to them shall seem good;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and their heirs, subjects of the said United States,
whether residing in France or elsewhere, may succeed them a6 intestat, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturalization. The subjects of the
most christian king shall enjoy, on their part, in all
the dominions of the said states, an entire and perfect reciprocity relative to the stipulations contained
in the present articlec "
Upon every principle of fair construction, this article gave to the subjects of France a right to purchase and hold lands in the United States.
It is unnecessary to inquire into the effect of thig
treaty under the confederation, because, before John
Baptiste Chirac emigrated to the United States, the
,ionfederation had yielded to our present constitution, and this treaty had become the supreme law of
the land.
c Before the French revolution the active 'power of inheriting.
the droitd'aubaine (jus alinatus) This was, given to all foreigners,
was abolished, or rather modified, without distinction, and, indepenby the treaties between France dent of treaties, by .tlle national
and the greater part of the other assembly in 1789. But this concivilized powers of the world. cession was repealed by the civil
But, it seems, according to an ob- code, which again placed the mat.
servation of M. Tronchet, in the ter upon its original footingof rediscussions on the civil code, that ciprocity, by enacting that foreignthis conventional law only exclu- ers should enjoy in France the
ded the royal fisc from taking by same civil rights which are, or
escheat the property of foreigners shall be, conceded to'Frenchmen
deceased in France, but did not by the treaties with the nation to
exclude their French relations which such foreigners may belong.
from inheriting, in preference to Liv. 1. chap. 1, De la Jouisance
their foreign heirs in the same or des Droits Cirils, Sri. II. Dis.
a nearer degree of affinity; be- cussions du Code Ciril,par .M. .41
cause the foreign heirs had not Jouanneau,4c. Toni. I. p. 45.

1817.
Chirac
V.

Chime.

272

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The repeal of this treaty could not affect the real
estate acquired by John Baptiste Chirac, because he
Chimec
,,. was then a natuialized citizen, conformably to the
Chimre.
act of congress; and no longer required the protection given by treaty.
John Baptiste Chirac having died seised in fee of
the land in controversy; his heirs at law being subFrance; and there being, at that time, no
jectt dof
treaty in existence between the two nations: did his
land pass to these heirs, or did it become escheatnbhe?
This question depends on the law of Maryland.
The 4th section of the act already mentioned enacts,
among other things, that if any shbject of France
who shall become a citizen of Maryland, shall die
intestate, the natural kindred of such decedent,
whether residing in France or elsewhere, shall inherit his or her real estate, in like manner as if such
decedent, and his kindred, were the citizens of this
state.",
An attempt has been made to avoid the effect of
this claim in the act, by contending that it was passed for the sole purpose of enforcing the treaty, and
was repealed by implication when the treaty was repealed.
The cor t does not think so. The
enactment of
the law is positive, and in its terms perpetual. Its
provisions are not made dependent on the treaty;
and, although the peculiar state of things then existing might constitute the principal motive for the law,
the act remains in force from its words, however that
state. of things may change.
But, to this enacting clause is attached a proviso
1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES

that whenever any subject of France shall, by virtue
of this act, b~come seised in fee of any real esLae,
his or her estate," after the term of ten~Chirac.
years be qxpired, shall vest in the state, unless the person seised
of the same shall, within that time, either come and
settle in, and become a citizen of this state, or enfeoT
thereof some citizen of this or sonie other of the
United States of America."
The heirs of John Baptiste Chirac then, on his
death, became seised of his real estate in fee, liable
to be defeated by the non-performance of the condition in the proviso above recited. The time given
by'the act for the performance of this condition expired in July, 1809, four months after the institution
of this suit. It is admitted, that the condition has
not been performed; but it is contended, that the
non-performance is excused, because the heirs have
been Prevented from performing it by the act of
law and of the party. The defendant, in' the court
below, has kept the heirs out of possession, under
the act of the state of Maryland, so that they have
been incapable of enfeoffing any AmeriQan citizen;
and, having- been thus prevented from performing
one condition, they are excused for not performing
the other.
Whatever weight might be allowed to this argument, were it founded in fact, its effect cannot be admittedin this case. The heirs were not disabled from
enfeoffing an American citizen. They might have entered, and have executed a conveyance for the land.
Having failed to do so, their estate has terminated,
VIOL. II.

31 m

273
1817.

T.

VASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

-Chirac
V.

.Chirac.

unless it be supported in some other manner than by
the act of Maryland.
This brings the court to a material question in
the cause. While the defendants inerror were seised of an estate in fee simple, determinable by their
failure to perform the condition contained in the act.
of 1780, another treaty was entered into between
the United States and France, which provides for
the riLhts of French subjects claiming lands by inheritance in the UnitedStates. This treaty enables
the people of one country, holding lands' in the
other, to dispose of the same by testament ,or otherwis3, as they shall think proper. It also enables
them to inherit lands in the respective countries,
without being obliged to obtain letters of' naturalization.
Had John Baptiste Chirac, the person from whom
the land in controversy descended, lived till this
treaty became the law of the land, all will admit that
the provisions which have been stated would, if uurestrained by other limitations,'have vested the estate
of which he died seised in his heirs.
If no act had been passed on the subject, and the
appellees had purchased lands lying in the United
States, it is equally clear that the stipulations refer-

red to would have operated on these lands, so as to
do away that liability to forfeiture to which the real
estates of aliens are exposed.
Has it the same or any effect on the estate of
which the appellees were seized when it was entered into?
It has been argued that the treaty protects exist-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing estates, and gives to French subjects a capacity
to dispose aid to inherit; but does not enlarge
estateiV
This is true. But the estate of the defendants in
error requires no enlargement. It is already a fee,
although subject to be defeated by the non-performance of a condition. The question is, does this treaty dispense with the condition, or give a longer
time for its performance ? The condition is, that those
who hold the estate shall become citizens of the
United States, or shall enfeoff a citizen within ten
years. Does the treaty control or dispense with this
condition ?
The direct object of this stipulation is, to give
French subjects the rights of citizens, so far Rs respects property, and to dispense with the necessity
of obtaining letters of naturalization. It does away
the incapacity of alienage, and places the defendants in error in precisely the same situation, with respect to latids, as if they had become citizens. It
renders the performance of the condition a* useless
formality, and seems to the court to release the
rights of the state as entirely in this case as in the
case of one wh/o had purchased, instead of taking by
descent. The act of Maryland has no particular reference to the case of Chirac, but is a general rule
of state policy prescribing the terms on which
French subjects may take and hold lands. This
rule is changed by the treaty; and it seems to the
court that the new rule applies to all cases, as well
to those where the lands have descended by virtue
of the act, as to those where lands have been ac-

275
1817.
Chis

Chirl.

276

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

quired without its aid. The general power to dis,,
pose "without limitation," which is given by the treaty, controls the particular power to enfeoff within
Chirac. ten years,,which is given by the act of Maryland.
But the treaty proceeds to stipulate, "that in case
the laws of either of the two states should restrain
strangers from the exercise of the rights of property
witb respect to real estate, such real estate may be
sold, o otherwise disposed of, to citizens or inhabitants of the country where it may be."
In many of the state , perhaps in all of them, the
from the exercise of
laws do "restrain strangers
Z
0
the rights of property with respect to real estate :"
consequently, this provision limits, to a certain extent, the principles antecedently granted. What is
the extent of this limitation ?
It will probably prevent a French subject from inheriting or purchasing the estate.-of a French subject, who is not also a. citizen of the United States ;
but it Cannot affect the right of him wh6 takes or
holds by virtue of the treaty, so as to deprive him of
the"power to do that for which this clause stipulates;
,that is, "to sell or otherwise dispose of the property to citizens or inhabitants of this country." This
general power to sell, according td the principles of
our law, and, it is presumed, of that of France, endures for life. A subject of France, then, who had
acquired landsby descent or devise, (perhaps also by
any other mode of purchase,) from a citizen of the
United States, would have a right, during life, to sell
or otherwise dispose of those lands, if lying in a state,
where lauds purchased by an alien generally would
1817.

'OF THE UNITED StATES.

be immediately escheatable on account of alienage.
The courf can perceive no reason for restraining this
construction in the application of the treaty to.thb
state of Maryland, where the law, instead of subjecting the estate to immediate forfeiture, protects
it for ten years. - The treaty substitutes the term of
life for the term of ten years given by the act.
If, then, the treaty between the 'United States and
France still continued in force, the defendant would
certainly be entitled to recover the land for which
this suit is instituted. But the treaty is, by an article which has been added to it, limited to eight years,
which have long since expired. Hbw does this circtmstance affect the case ?
The treaty. was framed with a view to its being
perpetual. Consequently, its language is adapted
tothe §tate of things contemplated by the parties,
and no provision could be made for the event of its
expiring within a certain number of years. The
court must decide on the effect of this added article
in ,the -case which has ocurred. It will be aduiitted, that a right once vested does not require,
for its preservation, the continued existence of the
power by which it was acquired. Ifa treaty, or any
other law, has performed its office by giving a right,
the expiration of the treiaty or law cannot extinguish that iight. Let us, theninquire, whether this
temporary treaty gave rights which existed only for
eight years, or'gave rights during eight years whicl4
survived it.
The terms of this instrument leave no doubt on this
subject. Its whole effect is immediate. The instant

277
1817.
Clam

v.
birac.

278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

isi8:

the descent is cast, the right of the party becomes
as complete as it can afterwards be made. The
The Geoo. French subject who acquired lands
by descent the
day before its expiration, has precisely the same
rights under it as he who acquired them the day after its formation. He is seised of the same estate,
and has precisely the same power during life 'to dis2
pose of it.. This limitation of the compact between
the two nations, would act upon, and change all its
stipulations, if it 'could affect this case. But the
court is of opinion, that the treaty hld its full effect
the instant a right was acquired under it; that it had
nothing further to perform; and that its expiration
or continuance afterwards was unimportant.
Judgment affirmed.

(Pazr.)
The GEoroGE.
A question of collusive capture. The capture pronounced to be colltL
siVe, and the property condemned to the United States.

THIs is the same cause which is reported in the
first volume of these Reports, p. 408, and which was
ordered to farther proof upon the points there
stated.

