CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tion to such effects and goods of stipulation, that the flag and pass
an enemy. But, if the neutrality shall protect the cargo sailing unThe United were violated, congress have not der it. In the memorablo cago
1817.

States
V.
Tenbroek.

said, thatsuch a violatedneutrality of the Nereide, 9 Cranch, 388.,
shall give such protection: Nor it was contended by the counsel
could they have said so, without for the captors, that this stipulaconfounding all the distinctions tion in the Spanish treaty, taken
between right and wrong." The in connexion with the law of
Estern, 2 Dall. 36. The only Spain, necessarily implied the
treaties now subsisting between converse proposition, that cncrmy'g
the United States and foreign pow- ships make enemy's goods, which
ers, containingthe stipulation that is not expressed in the treaty.
free ships shall make, free goods, But this argument was overruled
are the above treaty with Spain, by the court, who hold that the
that of 1782 with the Netherlands, treaty did not contain, either ex(which, it is presumed, still sub- pressly or by implication, a stipusists, notwithstanding the clhanges lation that enemy's ships shall
in the political situation of that make enemy's goods. Id. 4111.
country,) and the treaties with the See Ward on the Relative Rights
Barbary states. The conventions and Duties of Belligerant and
between the latter and Chris- .NeutralPowers, 145.
tian powers always contain the

(COMUON

The

UNITED

LAW.)

STATES V. TENBROEK.

The act of Congress of the 24th July 1813, imposing a duty, according to the capacity of the still, on all stills employed in distilling
spirits from domestic or foreign materials, and inflicting a penalty
of 100 dollars, and double duties, for using any still or stills, or
other implements in distilling spirituous liquors without first obtaining a license, as required by the act does not extend to the rectification, or purification, of spirits already distilled.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the circuit court for* the district of
Pennsylvania.
This was an action .of debt commenced in the
district court in Pennsylvania, by the United States
against the defendant in error, to recover a penalty
alleged to have been incurred for using a still, and
'distilling spirituous liquors, without having a license
therefor, as required by an act of congress passed
on the 24th of July, 1813.
This act imposes a duty, according to the capacity of the still, on all stills employed in distilling
spirits from domestic or foreign materials, and inflicts
a penalty of 100 dollars, and double duties, on all
persons who, after the first day of January then ensuing,:should use any still, or stills, or other implements, in distilling spirituous liquors, without having
first obtained a license, as required by the provisions
of the act. For every license the act imposes a
duty of nine cents for each gallon of the capacity
of the still employed in distilling spirits from domestic materials for the term of two weeks, and in
proportion fora longer period. And, on all* stills
employed in distilling spirits from foreign materials,
a duty of 25 cents for each gallon of the capacity
of the still for the.time of one month.
To the declaration, which was in the usual form,
the 'defendant, in proper person, plead nil debet, on
which issue was joined. It was proved on the trial,
and admitted by the defendant, that he was the proprietor of a distillery within the district of Pennsylvania, which he used, and for which he had not
taken out a license, agreeably to the act of conERROR

Voy.. H.

ii

249
1817.

Nte

The UMted

states
V".
Tenbwoe.

250
1817.
Thee Umted
States

Tenbroek.

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

gress before recited. It was also proved, on the
part of the defendant, that his distillery was not
used in distilling spirits from domestic materials, but
in rectifying the said spirits after they had been distilled from domestic materials.; that he is not a digtiller, but a rectifier of spirits. He contended that
distillation and rectification of spirits are distinct
vocations; that rectifying such spirits is not 'a part
of the Orocess of distillation, but a mere purification of the spirits themselves from feculent or
useless matter; and that he was not liable to the
penalty of the act of congress. The attorney for
the United States contended, that rectification of
spirits in a distillery is nothing more than distillation
repeated, and in this repetition the spirits must be
deemed, and in fact are, domestic materials.
The court charged the jury that the act of congress, laying duties on licenses to distillers of spirituous liquors, did not apply unless when the still is
used for the porpose of distilling spirits from domestic' or foreign materials; and that if the still, or
other implement, he not employed in distilling spirits
from domestic or foreign materials, there can be no
penalty incurred for using a still for any other purpose, although no license be taken out; and that
spirits cannot be considered- as a domestic material.
That penal laws must be construed strictly, and
must not be amplified by intendment. That whether
rectification be part of the process of distillation,
was a fact to be left to the jury. The counsel for
-the United States excepted to this charge. Thqre
was a verdict and judgment for the defendant.

.OF THE UNITED STATES.

251

TPhe cause Was removed by writ of error to the
1817.
t
'- United
circuit court, when the judgment of the district The
States
court was affirmed with costs.

It was brought before this court by writ of error,

IV.

Teabwok.

and submitted on the observations of the AttorneyGeneral.
The Attorne-General now contended, for the
United States, that the district judge ought not to
have permitted witnesses to be examined. It was
no case for the application of the maxim, quilibet in
sua arte credendum est. If the witnesses knew nothing of the subject, their testimony could not enlighten others. If they did, it was plain that their
knowledge was derived from being engaged in'the
same line of business, which gave them an interest
in-the construction of the law. In the case of the
Cast-Plate Glass Company,a Chief Baron Eyre declares that, in explaining an act of parliament, no
evidence should be admitted; for that would be to
make ito a question of fact, in place of a question
of law. The judge alone must direct the jury on
the point of law. In doing this, he must form his
judgment of. the meaning of the legislature, in the
same manner as if the case had come before him by
demurrer,-where no evidence can be allowed. On
demurrer, a judge may well inform himself, from dictionaries or books, on the particular subject concerning the meaning of any word. Yet, if he does so at
a Ansr. 40.

March lit.

252

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Nisi Prius, and shows them to the jury, they are not
dto be considered as evidence, but only as the grounds
The United
States.
on which he has formed his opinion, in the same man.Tenbrek, ner as if he were to cite authorities for the point oflaw
he lays down. The single question, in the present case,
was, whether a person, using a still for the purpose of
rectifying spirits, is within its true meaning. It is
necessary to remark, that the duty under this nctt
was not upon the quantity of liquor distilled, nor upon its removal. This, inde ,1, had been tile case
with some parts, and at other times, with this part
of our excise system But under the present act,
the duty was upon the implement, or still itself. To
speak the language of the debates, it was upon tho
capacity, not the gallon; a distinction materially rel'.
rant to a right understanding of the point in controversy. By the first section of the act, a license
is required to be taken out for all stills used for tho
purpose of distilling spirituoui liquors. No exception
is made as to any particular kind of still. The term,
spirituous liquors, is so comprehensive, that it must
necessarily include all liquors that contain spirits,
without any reference to the proportion or quantity
which they may contain. By the second section, a
certain amount of duty is laid on stills employed in
distilling spirits from domestic materials, and a: different amount on those that work on foreign materials. It is evident, that no intention existed to define what was meant by materials, but barely to discriminate between foreign and domestic, with a view
to make the duty lighter on spirits p-roduced from
1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

253

1817.
the latter than on the former, according to the
Two points The"-"
common policy of our legislation.
Unitea
statm
will be made for the United States. 1. That
spirits are the materials upon which rectification Teubrock.
2. That rectification is a branch of
operates.
The first point is so
the process of distilling.
plaii, that the defendant himself must admit it. The
second alone opens a door to argument. The question lies outbf the ordinary track of legal discussion.
To understand it, we must have recourse to books
of art. It is these which will best fix the true meaning of the terms distillation and .rectification. We
shall then be enabled to determine, if there be any,
the difference between them. Doctor Black, in
his elements of chemistry, after speaking of fermentation, says, "The spirit is separated more or
less perfectly from these substances by distillation, it
being more volatile than most of them, especially the
- acid, mucilaginous and colouring matter. The water
is but imperfectly separated at first, on account of
the small differenee of volatility between it and the
spirit. To reduce the spirit to a state of purity, we
must perform several other operations, such as distilling it. again once or twice with a gentle heat,
which is called rectify/ing. By this we separate the
greater part of the water which had come over in
thefirst distillation."'b Fourcroy, in his elements,' defines rectification to be, "a second distillation, in
which substances are purified, by their most vola~ile
parts being raised by heat carefully managed. The
t B-ack's Chemisry., vol. 3. p. 24.

c Vol. 1. P. 170.

254

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
The United
States.
V.

Tenbroek.

Attorney-General next referred 'to Hall's distiliert
(which, he said, was agreed to be a very accurate
work upon this subject,) and to the Encyclopwdia,
where the definitions were substantially the same as
in Black and Fourcroy. Even the common dictionaries of the language, he said, defined rectification to
be the act of "improving by repeated distillations."
The poit appearing to stand thus upon the score of
authority, it was next to be inquired how it stood
upon that of reason. The duty, as the law so plainly makes known, is laid, in the broadest manner,
upon all stills used for distilling spirituous liquors,
It is neither graduated by the strength of the spirits
produced, nor by the simplicity or complexity of the
manufacture. The first process in distillation is understood to be, that in which the wash is put into
the still. From this low wines are drawn, or spirits
of an inferior quality. From a case in Anstruthor,
558., it, would seem that in England, the first duty
attaches on he wash before distillation. For a still
employed in the first process, it was on all hands admitted, that a license must be taken out. The inferior spirits so drawn do not constitute marketable
spirits. A second process is then used. This consists, for the most part, in putting them into a smaller still called a doubler. From the doubler they
come out, having the quality of common marketable
spirits. A license ought surely to be taken out for
a still so employed, call it a doubler or by any other
name. But the original matter, or material, is hero
clearly out of view, for it went into the first still.
Nothing but the spirits extracted from it were car

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ried over to the doubler. Does not this then establish the point, that iqferiorspirits may become domestic materialsunder the act ? It cannot, with any show
of reason, be pretended that they have lost the properties of matter merely by being separated from
substances with which they were primarily 'combined. Between the derivatives of matter and materials, it would be strange indeed to attempt any distinction, as applicable to the case under consideration. The spirits extracted by the doubler are understood to be generally about proof. For various
purposes it is necessary to increase their strength.
This is effected by a third or fourth distillation generally, though not necessarily, in the same stills. By
this process, not only is the strength raised, but the
purity is increased. Now, in what, may it be asked,
does this operation differ from the second process in
the doubler? Spirits of an inferior strength are the
materials of distillation in the one case and in tho
other. The last, and any similar .ubsequent operations, may be called rectifications. But they.are distillations too. They impart to the spirits more
strength as well as more purity. It is just so
with the second process in the doubler. It may,
perhaps, be said, that these subsequent processes. are all carried on by the rectifler, on spi:its
previously distilled. That it is done merely to fit
them for combination with other materials of which
mixtures are made by persons not distillers, and that
in such process extraneous matter is often introduced
with a view to greate purity. To this it may be
answered, first, that thes& prpcesses in nowise de-

255
1817.
'

-

The Unted
States
Tenbroele.

256

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1817.
The United
States

stroy the character of distillation, as they do not
necessarily
prevent an augmentation i the strength
a
of spirits. And, secondly, that the introduction of

V.

'Tenbroek. extraneous matter is not confined to the higher pro-

cess of distillation, as water, charcoal, and other ingredients" are not unfrequently used in the process
by which low wines are converted into proof spirits.
Supposea patent to be taken out for carrying on the
original process as well as rectification in'
the same
still? how can the duty be made to attach even in
- the case of the doubler, except on the hypqthesis
assumed for the United'States. It would be difficult, if not impracticable, to fall upon any other
mode. Again; the duty on stills is properly considered as a commutation for that which might have
been. laid upon the liquor. Is it not, therefore, as
just that the duty should be paid upon the still when
used to produce rectiffed spirits, as when it is used to
produce any other kind of spirits ? The English statutes in parimateria will be found, to countenance the
doctrine contended for on the part of the United
States; particularly that of 2. Geo. Il. ch. .5.from the
12th section of which it appears, that the rectifier who
distils spirits and the common distiller, are considered the same. Several of the other sections would
also show that rectification and distillation, when an
increase of s.rength was the object, were used as
equivalent terms. The system, in England, coniemplated the laying of a duty first on the low wines,
and then on the spirits distilled from them. So congress, with like equity, may have intended to impose

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2-57

a duty first upon the still when used in the original
*1817.
manufacture 6f spirits, and again on its use in the
' keUnited
manufacture of spirits of a higher proof. So far is states
such a principle from being at all repugnant to the Tenbrock.
general theory of American taxation, that it is sanctioned by the whole analogy of our impost revefmue.
Thus under the present tariff, iron:in bars, iron in
sheets, and iron in bolts, is each charged with a different duty. Leather in different forms, as in boots,
saddles, caps, slippers, pays differently. The duty
levied upon imported spirits is graduated according
to the degree ofproof. Brpwn sugars, white sugars,
.huMp sugars, powdered sugars, aie all subject to
different rates. Tobacco, under its different forms
of manufacture, is chargeable with different duities,
and the list might easily, if it were necessary, be extended. Other nations have refined somewhat more
upon the principle. Mr. Brougham, in his Colonial
Policy, mentions, that there was oncn a pirticular
sauce for fish used in Holland which was made to
pay no less than thirty different duties of excise!
a provident decree against 'theluxury of the palate,
.moug a people as renowned for frugality as riches.
Yt it may be that this sauce waz a less noxious superfluity than the liquor of the still. Revenue laws
are to be construed and applied with great exactness. .Thev are framed for the security of great
national interests, and the effect of such laws,founded on considerations of public policy, is not to be
weakened by a minute tenderness to hardships. real
or supposed, in particular instances. It is also a
VOL. H.

Kk

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

,-

.The United
States

Vr.

March 15th.

good rule, where doubts exist in a revenue case) to
lean in favour of the revenue.d
Mr. Justice DUVALL delivered the opinion of the
court, and afterstating the facts, proceeded as follows:
The court, jn considering this question, must be
governed by the language of the act of congress of,
thc -4th July, 1813. By this act, a specific duty is
laid o, licenses to stills; eniployed in distilling spirituous liquors from domestic or foreign materials, and a
penalty is inflicted for distilling without a license.
The distillation of spirituous liquors is perlbrmed
b) a double process: by the application of heat to
a still containing the material. The product of the
first process, after running through the still, is commonly called low wines, or singlings: th low winos undergo a second process of distillation, by which
spirits are.produced: they are to be p!oof of the first,

second, third, or fourth degree, as defined and ro.
quired by law. These are marketable; and hero
the process ends. The ma'terial from which the
spirits are extracted, appears to be the object of the
'law. The rectification or purification of spirits, after
their distillation has been compite, in order to fit
them for certain purposes of combination with other
materials, is no part of the process of distillation,

and is not a breach of the provisions of the act of.
congress. The distillation of spirits, and the rectifi-,
cation of them after they are distilled, appear to be
distindt and. separate acts. No duty is specifically
d The Betty Catheart, 1. Bob. 220.
edit.)

1. B1. Com. 324. (Christian's

259

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laid by law on the rectification of spirits, nor does it
appear that any was contemplated; and, if the process is confined to the rectification of spirits already
distilled, no penalty is incurred, although a license is
not previously obtained. It was evidently the intention of the legislature to exact one duty only on the
distillation of spirits.
It is the opinion of this court, that there is no error in the judgment of the circuit court.
This opinion is given on the request of the Attorney-General; it being probable that the same question may frequently occur. But, as this cause is
improperly brought before this court by ivrit of error, having been first carried from the district to
the circuit court by the same process, it is dismissed.
Writ of error dismissed.
a Vide 7 Cranch, 103.

The

does not lie to cafry to the su-

United States v. Goodwin. lb. preme court a civil cause which
-287. The United States v. Gor- has been carried from the district
don et at.; in which cases it was court by writ of error.
4etermined, that a writ of error

J. C. F.

CHIRAC

V. the Lessee of A.

F. Carn.zc et. aL

J. B. C., a native of France. migrated into the United States in 1793,

and became domiciled iu Maryland. On the 22d September, 1795,
he took the oaths of citizenship acconling to an act of Ascembly
9f Maryland, passed in 1779, and the next day received a convey.

1817.
Chirar

v

Chirac.

