206
1817.
%
Johnson
V.
Pannel's

bei.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and attached it to the land surveyed. , That his
rights are not impaired by the aes of 1783, and the
entry of the appellant, all of which ard'subsequent
to his survey; and that it is completed by the grant

which issued in pursuance of the act of 1784, and
which relates to the inception of his title. The decree of the circuit court, dismissing tiue bill of the
complainant, is affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed.

<LOCAL LAW.).

JoHNSONV. PANNEL's heirs.
It is essential to the validity of an entry, that the land intended to
be appropriated should be so described as to give notice of the appropriation to subsequent locators.
In taking the distance from one point to another on a largo river, the
measurement is to be with its meanders, and not in a direct line.
In ascertaining a place to be found by its distance from another
place, the vague words "about" or "nearly" and the like, aro to
be rejected, if there are no other words rendering it necessary to
retain them.: and the distance mentioned is to be taken positively.
Entries made in a wilderness, most generally referring to some prominent and notorious natural object, which may direct the attention
to the neighbourhood in which the land is placed, and then to some
particular object exactly describing it; the first of these is donouinated the general or de criptive call,and the last the particular
or loce'ive call of the entry, Reasonable certainty is required in
both : if tne descriptive call will not inform a subsequent locator in
vhit neighhnurhod he is to search for the land, the entry is de.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ftctive, unless the particuarobject is one of sufficient notoriety.
f,after having reached the neighbourhood, the locative object
cannotbe found within the limits of the descriptive calk:, the entry
is also defective. A single call may, at the same time, be of such
a nature (as. for example, a spring of general notoriety) as to constitute within itself both a call of description and of location; but,
'if this cal be accompanied with another, such as a marked trez aZ
the spritg, it seems to be required that both should be satisfied.
The call for an unmarked tree of a kind which is common in the
neighbourhood of a place sufficiently described by the other prts
of the entry to be fixed with certainty may be considered as an ir6Snaerial call.
Therefore, where the entry was in the following words, "D. P. enters 2,000 acres on a treasury warrant on the Ohio, about twelve
miles below the mouth of Licking. beginning at a hiccory and sugar tree on the river bank, running up the river from thence 1,060
poles, thence at right angles-to the same, and back for quantity,"
it was held that the call for a sugar tree might be declared immaterial, and the location be sustained on the other calls.
The entry was decreed to be surveyed, beginniog 12 miles below the
"mouth of Licking on the bank of the Ohio, and .runniog up that
river 1,060 poles; which line was to form the base of a rectangular
parallelogram to include 2,000 acres of land.

Tais cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for the

207
1817.
Johnsoa
V.
Pannel'o
heirs.

Feb. 2th

appellants, and Mr. X. B. Hardin, for the respondents.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHAT Ldelivered the opinion Marcli 6th.
of the court.
This case depends on the validity.and construction of an entry made in the state of Kentucky by
David Pannel, the ancestor of the appellees, in these
words: "'David Pannel enteri 2,000 acres on a treasury warrant on thp Ohio, about twelve -miles be-

Iow the moutth of Licking, beginning at a hiceory
-and sugar tree on the river bank, running up the

CASES IN THE 51URI5I0E COURT
1817.

Y.
heirs.

river froin thenbe 1,060 p6lbs, thence atright &ngleb
to the same and back for quantity."
The appellant having obtained an elde" Jatent
fobthe satae lAnd 'n A junior entry, the appbllibes
brought a bill in the circdit court for the district of
Kentucky, sitting inchaticory, praying that the defbndant, ii that c6urt, might be decrbbd tb cohVby
to them.' The circuit court directed the entry of
the complainant to be surveyed, beginhing twelve
iiies below the mouth of Licking, b the bank of thb
Ohio, and running up that river 1,060 poles; which
line was to form the base of a rectangular parallelgr'am, to include 2,000 acres of land. So much
of this land as was within Pannell's patent, and also
within Johnson's patent, the cdurt decreed the defendant tb con*ey to the plaintiffs. From this de,ure-e the defendant has appealed to this court.
He contends that the decree is erroneous, because,
1st. It affirms the validity of this entry, which i5
too uncertain and defective to be established.
2d. If the entry be established, it ought to be so
surveyed that the whole land should lie twelve miles
below the mouth of Licking.
First. It is undoubtedly essential to the validity
of an entry, that it shall be made so specially and
precisely that others may be enabled, with certainty,
to locate the adjacent residuum. Th9 land intended
to be app ropriated, must consequently be so described as to give notice of the appropriation to subsequent locaters. In obtaining this information, however, it would seem to be the plain dictate of co'mon sense, that the person about to take up adjoin-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ijig lands, would read the whole of a previous entry
Which he wished to avoid, compare together its di:.
ferent parts, and judge, from the entire description,
what land was appropriated. If with common attention5 and common intelligence, the lani could be
ascertained and avoided, the requisites of the law
would seem to be complied with.
Test Pannel's entry by this standard.
The mouth of Licking is a place of acknowledged
and universal notoriety, which no man in the country
could be at a loss to find. When placed there, he
is'informed by the entry that Pannel's land lies
twelve miles below him on the Ohio. He proceeds
down the river twelve miles, and is thcre informed
that the entry begins at a hiccory and sugal tree on
the river bank. He looks around him and sees hiccory and sugar trees. Here, then, he would say,
while oninformed of decisions which have since been
made, is the beginning of the entry. Id what direction does the land lie? The paper which is to
give his information says, "running up the river
from thence 1060 poles, thence at right angles to the
same, and back, for quantity." Would he say this
description is repugnant in itself, containing equal
and contradictory directions, neither of which is entitled to any preference over the other, and leaving
the judgment in such a state of doubt and perplexity as t 9 be incapable of deciding the real position
of this land ? Would he say the whole land must
lie twelve miles from the mouth of Licking ? This
is so clearly and definitely required, that the entry
will admit of no other construction? That the sub"voT.Ih

D .1

209
1817.
Johmoa

v.
Pannelgz
heim.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sequent words direoting him to run up the river
fromi that point 1,060 poles, and thus approach the
J~ohnsan
,..
'mouth
of Licking, are not explanatory but contraPannel's
heir1, dictory ? That the one or the other must be totally
1817.

discarded? Were this the real imprpssion which
would be made on the mind, it cannot be denied
that the state of qncertainty in which these equal
and irreconcilable descriptions would place a subsequent locator, ought. to vitiate the entry. But if,
on the contrary, the obvious and natural construction would be that; since every part bf the land cannot be placed precisely twelve miles below the
mouth of Licking, the distance is applicable to any
part of the tract, and this part of the description
may be so explained and controlled by other parts,
as to receive a meaning different from that which it
would have if standing alone; then the subsequent
locator would take the whole description together,
and if its different parts could, without difficulty, be
reconciled, he would reconcile them. He would
say the beginning must be twelve miles from the
mouth of Licking, but the residue 9f the land muqt
approach that place because the entry requires positively to run from the beginning up the river.
This would, it is thought, be the manner in which
this entry would be understood by a person guided
by no other light than is furnished by human reason. But the courts of Kentucky have congtructed
vast and complex system, on the entire preservatibf of which iheir property depends, and this court
will respect that system as much as the courts ofKezitucky themselves.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

I'll

1817.
-in applying the decisions of that country to this
cause, we find many points now settled which were 'o'nZo/
V.
In taking the
formerly controverted questions.
eir,.
distance from one point to inother on a large river,
the measurement is to be with its meanders, not in
*a direct line. And in ascertaining a place to be
found by its distance from another place, the vague
ly," and the like, are to be
words "about," or "1zcar
discarded, if there are no other words rendering it
necessary to retain them; and the distance mentioned is to be taken positively. A subsequent locator,
then, must look for the beginning called for in this
eritry twelve miles below the mouth of Licking, mea.
sured by the meanders of the Ohio.
In construing locations some other principles
have been established which seem to be considered
Entries made in a wilderness
as fundamental.
would most generally refer to some prominent and
notorious object which might direct the attention to
the neighbourhood in which the land. was placed;
and then to some particular object which should exactly describe it. The first of these has been denbminated the general or- descriptive call, and the
last the particular or locative call, of the entry.
Reasonable certainty has always been required in
both. "If the descriptive call will not inform a subsequent locator in what neigbourhood he is to search
for the land, the entry is defective, unless the particular object be one of sufficient notoriety. If, after
having reached the neighbourhood, the locative object cannot be found within the limits orthe descriptive call, the entry is equally defective. They must

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Johnson

V.
heirs,

PVannel's

both be found, and neither can be discarded unless
deemed immaterial. A single call may be, at the
same time, so notorious and so formed, as, for exampie, a spring of general notoriety, as to constitute
in itself a call both of description and location; but
if this call be accompanied with another, as a marked tree at the spring, it seems to be required that
botl: calls should be satisfied.
Tb -, in the case now under the consideration of
the court, the call for a beginning twelve miks below the mouth of Licking wolld be sufficiently descriptive, and is sufficiently precise to be locative,
It would be unquestionably good, were it not accompanied with the additional call for a hiccory and
sugar tree. Whether it is vitiated by this additional
call, is to be determined by a reference to the de.
cisions in Kentucky.
The case of Grutbset. l v. Rice, (2 Bibb, 107.)
depended on the validity of an entry made in these
words: "James Thomas enters 300 acres of lan ,
&c., on the south side of Kentucky, about two mile
below the mouth of Red River, beginning at a tree
marked I. S. on the bank of the river, and running
down the river for quantity."
No tree marked I. P. was found at or near the dis,
tance required. It was proved that a tree had been
marked I. S. by the person who afterwards made the
entry for Thomas, and that it stood on tie soutl
Pide of Kentucky; but instead of being two miles it
was three miles and a quarter, by the meanders of
the river, and two miles and two-tbirdi of a mile on
direct Povrse, below the mouth of R~d Riyvr,

OF THE UNITE) STATES.

213

The inferior court disregarded the call for the tree,
1817.
and fixed the beginning of the entry at'the terminav.
tion of two miles below the mouth of Red River.
On an appeal this decree was reversed, and Judge
heim.
Wallace, in delivering the opinion of the court, said,
"This rejection of the call for the tree marked I. S.
is certainly subversive of the well-established prin-.
ciple, that no part of an entry ought to be rejected,
unless what is evidently "heresurplusage, or absolutely repugnant to other expressions \vhich are
more important; because to do more would not be
construing entries, but making them. But the expression Iabout two miles below the mouth of Red
River,' is obviously only a general call, and to substitute this in the place of the expression ' beginning at
a tree marked I. S., &c.,' which is the only special or
locative call in the entry, is still more inadmissible."
The case of Kincaid v. Blythe and others, (2 Bibb,
479.) turned on the validity of an entry made" on a
branch of Silver Creek, about four miles from the
little fort on Boone's old trace, including a tree
marked D. B." In this case too the inferior court
disregarded the call for the tree, which could not be
proved to have existed when the location was made,
and directed the land to be surveyed at the termi.
nation of the distance of four miles from the little
Fort. On appeal, this decree also -was reversed,
and, in delivering the opinion of the court, Judge
Wallace said, "It is evident that when the entry
Was made, Boones" old trace, the little Fort, and
Silver Creek, were all well known by those names
to the geperalit7 of those who were conversant in

214
1817.
'

Johnson

V.I
rannel's
beirs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COORT

the vicinity. And it further appears, that about four
miles from the little Fort, on a southern diiection,
Boone's old trace struck Hayes' fork of Silver
Creek, which may be presumed to be the.branch of
Silver Creek intended; and, if the entry contained
no other calls, it would deserve serious consideration
whether the place where the trace crossed Hayes'
fork 'ofSilver Creek ought not to be assumed as
the centre of the survey to be made thereon. But
this entry calls. to include a tree marked D. B.,
which is obviously a locative and material call, and,
therefore, conformably.to the uniform decisions of
this court o" similar'entries, must be taken into con-$
sideration in deciding on this entry."
These cases are admitted to have settled the law
to be that' a nmaterial locative call, as for a marked
tree, cannot be disregarded; and that, if the existence of the tree cannot be proved, the entry cannot be sustained. The only distinction between
these cases and that under the consideration of the
court is that, in them, the entries call fbr a marked
tree; in this it calls for a sugar tree andhccory, not
stating them to be marked. For the importance of
this distinction we are-again referred to the decisions
of Kentucky.
The case of Greenup v. Lyn's heirs, turned on an
entry of land "lying on Kentucky river, opposite
to Leesburg, beginning at a beach tree and running
up the river and back, for quantity." The validity
of this entry was affirmed in the inferior court, and,
on an appeal, was also .affirmed in the superior court,

OF THE UNITED ,STATES.

215

I delivering the opinion of the superior court, 1817.
Judge Logan said, "Had the only call in the entry .Johmoa
been to lie on the river oppbsite to Leesburg, we
V.
h
should have concurred with the circuit court in the
manner of surveying it, by running up and down the
river equal distances from a point opposite the
centre of Leesburg; and if the call to'begin at "a
Beach Tree" had been the only other call, we
should still have thought that opinion correct, as the
common growth of the timber there is beech, and a
tree of the description could have been had at
almost any point within the limits of the claim.
This circumstances we conceive, ought not to affect the entry; for whether the call is regarded
or rejected, in the construction of the entry, is totally *immaterial; because, it seems to the court
that where an uncertainty arises from the number
of objects presented, answering the calls of an
entry, and it has other calls sufficiently precise to
sustain it, that, of the many doubtful objects, that
should be taken as intended, which will best preserve the consistency of the others; and in thi"
case it seems the call for the tree could be complied
with without changing in the least the, position given
by the first call, so that it is left as an immaterial call.
We are more confirmed in this opinion when we consider that the entry, from any other view, must be
invalid for uncertainty, although we believe no one
could doubt, from a liberal and just construction of
it, as to the general body and position of the land it
calls for."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT,

This case, if not overruledo certainly goes far ia
between a call for a marked tree, and
Sdistinguishing
r
Yonison
ior a tree not marked ; provided such trees as the
V.
1'annel's
call requires, are found about the place Where the
heir's.
entry must begin. It goes further, and
strongly indicates the opinion that an unmarked tree was an
object of less importanee in the mind of the locater
tbnn nne selected from all others by a mark peculiar to itself. While the latter must have been
deemed importa.nt, and have strongly fixed his attention, the former may have been thought not very
essential. Coming to the place whbre he Intended
to b zin5 looking around him when there, and seeing
trees of a particular kind from the common growth,
he might suppose it unimportant at which of these
trees he should commence and call for one of them.
In such a case, a court may well say "whet l ibr the call
is regarded or rejected in the construction of the
entry is totally immaterial." There is much reason
for this opinion. Certainty is required in entries for
the purpose of giving notice to subsequent locators,
The subsequent locator who comes to the place described in the entry, in order to find the land he
wishes to avoid, will, if a marked tree be called for,
search for that marked tree; and, if it cannot be
found, may well conclude that this is not the land
intended to be appropriated; but ff only a tree iq
called for, and trees stand all around him, he will
naturally supuose that the nearest may be taken as
a beginning; and that to him it is quite immaterial
whether the commencement be at the spot on which
lie stands, or within ten feet or ten yards of him,

OP THE UNITED STAXES.

The subsequent locator is not misled by this call;
1817.
nor is there any danger of hisM mistaking the position " Johnson
of the land. It is not without reason, therefore,
v.
that the call is pronounced immaterial, and one Prannel's
helr.
which may be regarded or rejected. The entry
may be sustained by. other calls which are sufficiently precise to sustain it.
If in the case at bar it had been proved that sugar
trdes and hiccories were as common at the termination of twelve miles from the mouth of. Licking, as
the beech tree opposite to Leesburg, the two
eases would, in this respect, be precisely alike. But
this is not proved. Only one witness has been examined to this point, and his testimony is that there
are pugar trees on the bank of the Ohio, in the neighbourhood, and that the maple or sugar tree might be
found for many miles above and below the corner,
standing within fifty yards of each other, on the second bank of the river. The report of the surveyor shows that three elms and a hiccory stood at the
termination of the twelve miles from the mouth of'
Licking.
There would certainly be much difficulty in supporting this as a locative call, although it is not absolutely certain that it might not be so supported.
The not less important question is, whether it may
-be considered as an immaterial call. No case has
been cited in which the call for an unmarked tree
has been thought material; and there are cases in
which a circumstance not important in itself, has
been dispensed with. The difference between calling for a marked and an unmarked tree has been
VoL.

II.

Ee

218

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUI T

already notided. It is difficult to suppose that thoqr
are
viewed as equally importpnt by the person
Johnson
V. making the entry, or by a subsequent locator. If
Pannel's
heirs. ' the person. making the entry designed to select for
the beginning a particular tree, in exclusion of all
others, it is in a high degree improbable that he
should omit to mark it. If he made .the entry from
memory, then the place only, and not the particular
tree, would be the objecl to which his mind would
attach importance. So with the subsequent locator,
The distance would bring him to the place, or sufficiently near to it for every beneficial purpose, and
whether a sugar tree and 'hiccory stood at the end
6f twelve miles as measured by his cbain,.or within
thirty, forty, or fifty yards, would not essentially
zVary his views with respect to adjacent lands. He
could not doubt, to use the expression of the court
in the case of Greenup'v. Lyn's heirs, "as to the
general body and position .of the land" described
in the entry. The opinion that the call for an unmarked tree of a kind which is common in the neigh,bourhood of a place suffibiently described by other
parts of the entry to be fixed with certainty, may
be considered as an immaterial call, is supported by
the decision of the court in the case which has been
last mentioned. Although iri. that case the judge
shows that a tree might be found to satisfy the call
at the place fixed as the beginning, yet it is apparent
that different places within a few yards of each
other would answer equally well for the beginning,
and that different trees might be selected fbr that
purpose. And the judge, after stating that this call
1817.

"19

OF THE UNITED STATES.

iaight either be considered as satisfied, or iu itself
immaterial, proceeds to show that he thought it im-

material. " Regarding," he proceedt to say, "1the
call'for a beech-tree as immaterial, we come to consider," &c.
Upon the authority of the case of Greenup v.
Lyne's heirs, then, and upon a view of the whole of
this entry, it would seem that the call for the sugar
-tree and biccory may be declared immaterial, and
the lbcation be sustained on its other calls.
The second queslion is, in what manner ought
tbis-'entry to be surveyed ?
It is admitted to be a general principle that,
where a location calls for land'to lie a given distance
from a given point, the whole land must be placed
at or beyond that distance, if there be no other
words in the location which control this construction,
But it is not admitted that this call can overrule
the plain meaning of the whole entry taken togethiet.
It is believed to be unquestionably decided that
every material part of the entry is to be c6nsidered,
and that such construction is to be put upon the
whole as is best adapted to all its material calls.
This principle was laid.-down in Greenup v.
Lyne's heirs, which, on this point, bears a strong
analogy to that under the -consideration of the court.
In Greenup v. Lyne's heirs, the entry, called for land
"lying on Kentucky river, opposite to Leesburg, beginning at a beech tree, and running up the river
and back for quantity."
It is perfectly settled in Kentucky, that on a call
for land lying opposite to Lesburg, the centre of the

1817.
Johnson

V.

Pannel'd

hcirs.

220
1817,
Johnson

V.
Pannpel's
heirs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT1

land would be placed opposite to thp centro of the
and a square would be formed on a base line
running up and down the river, to include the
quantity. The entry could not otherwise be sustained. The inferior court laid off this entry in that
manner; and the appellate court' declared that it
would be the proper manner, were there not other
words in it which controlled this general description
by one which was more particular. That more
particular description was "running up the river
and back for quantity."
These cases ar6 in principle the same. The one
calls for land twelve miles below the mouth of Licking, which description would require land the near-,
est part of which is at the given distance; the other
calls for land lying opposite Leesburg, which requires a tract the centre of which is opposite to the
centre of the town.. The one calls for a beginning
at a sugar tree and hiccory, without naming a place
for the beginning otherwise than by the description
of the position of the land; the other calls for a
beech tree under precisely the same circumstances.
In the case of Greenup v. Lyne's heirs, the words
"running up the river and back for quantity" have
changed the place of beginning from the centre to
the lower end of the town, and the position of the
land, so that instead of lying above and below Leesburg, in equal quantities, it lies entirely above that
place. Why shall not the same words influence in
the same manner, the position of Pannel's land ?
From the language of Pannel's entry, every man
would .xpect the survey to begin at the place called

Stown,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for, twelve miles below the mouth of Licking. If
that is not the beginning the location is unquestion•
it
beginning
the
is
that
If
void.
and
ably uncertain

1817:
Patteron

V.

is the plain mandate of the entry to run up the river Tbstate.d

1,060 poles and back for quantity.
It is the opinion of the majority of the court that
the decree ought to be affirmed, with costs.

Decree affirmed.

(coMMoN LAW.)

PATTERSON

v. the

UNITED STATES.-

A verdict is bad, if it varies from the issue in a substantial matter, or
if it find only a part of that which is in issue; and, though the court
may give form toageneral finding, so as to make it harmonize with
the issue, yet, if it appears thai the finding is different from the issue, or is confined to a part only of the matter in issue, io judgment
can he rendered upon the verdict.
In an action'of debt, upon a bond to the United States, with condition
that certain merchandise imported, and re-shipped for exportation,
should not be re-landed within the U. S., and that the certificate
and other proofs required by law, of the delivery of the same, without the limits of the U. S., should be produced at the collector's ofice within one year from the date of the bond; an issfe was formed
upon the defendant's plea, that the merchandise was not re-landed,
&c., and that the certiflcates and other proofs requited by law, of
the delivery of the same at Archangel, in Russia, were produced,
&c. within one year from the date of the bond. The jury found a
verdict, that, "the withie-mentioned writingobligatory is the deed
of the "within-namfed R. P., &c., and they find there is reallr and

