CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Coolidge
V.(CMOLA)

Payson.

COOLIDGE

et. al. v. PAYsoN et. al.

A letter, written within a reasonable time before or after the date of a
bill of exchange, describing it in terms not to be mistaken, and
promising to accept it, is, if shown to the person who afterward6
takes the bill on the credit df the letter, a virtual acceptance binding the person who makes the promise.

THIs cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for the plain.
tiff in error, and by Mr. Winder, for the defendant.
reb. 21st.

Mr. Ch. J. MARSHALL delivered the opinion of
the court.
This suit was instituted by Payson & Co., as endorsers of a bill of exchange, drawn by Cornthwaito
& Cary, payable to the order of John Randall,
against Coolidge & Co. as the acceptors.
At the trial the holders of the bill, on which the
name of John Randall was endorsed, offered, for the
purpose of proving the endorsement, an affidavit'made
by one of the defendants in the cause, in order to
obtain a continuance, in which he referred to the bill
in terms which, they supposed, implied a knowledge
on his part that the plaintiffs were the rightful holders. The defendants objected to the bill's going to
the jury without further proof of the endorsement;
but the court determined that it should go with the
affidavit to the-jury, who might b6 at liberty to infer
from thence that the endorsement was made by Ran-

dall.

To this opinion the counsel for the defendants

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in the circuit court excepted, and this court is di- 1817.
vided on the question whether the exception ought Coolidgo
V.
to be sustained.
Payson.
held
Co.
&
Coolidge
that
appeared
it
trial
On the
the proceeds of part of the cargo of the Hiram,
claimed by Cornthwaite & Cary, which had been captured and libelled as lawful prize. The cargo had
been acquitted in the district and circuit courts, but
from the sentence of acquittal, the captors had appealed to this court. Pending the appeal Corn.
thwaite &Co. transmitted to Coolidge &Co. a bond of
indemnity, executed at Baltimore with scrolls in the
place of seals, and drew on them for two thousand
seven hundred dollars. This bill was also payable
to the order of Randall, and endorsed by him to Payson & Co. It was presented to Coolidge & Co. and
protested for non-acceptance.
After its protest
Coolidge & Co. wrote to Cornthwaite,& Cary a letter,
in which, after acknowledging the receipt of a letter
from them, with the bond of indemnity, they say,
"This bond, coqformably to our laws, is not executed as it ought to be; but it may be otherwise in
your state. It will therefore be necessary to satisfy
us that the scroll is usual and legal with you instead
of a seal. We notice no seal to any of the signatures." "We shall write our friend Williams By
this mail, and will state to him our ideas respecting
the bond, which he will probably determine. If Mr.
W. feels satisfied on this point, he will inform you,
and in that case your draft for two thousand dollars
will be honoured."
On the same 4y Coolidge & Co. addressed a let-

CASES IN THE SUPREME 01URT
1817.

ter to Mr. Williams, in which, after referring to him

C"i'
Coolidge

the question respecting the-legal obligation of the

V.

scroll, they say, "You know the object of the bondi
and, of course, see the propriety of our having -one

Payson.

not only legal, but signed by sureties of unquestionable responsibilify. *'epecting which, we shall
wholly rely on ypur judgmrient. You mention the
last surety as being responsible; what think you of
the Others ?"

In his answer to this letter, Williams says, ".I amo
assured, that the bond transmitted in my ast is suffi.
cient for the purpose for which it was given, provi.
ded the parties possess the means; and of the last
igner, I have no hesitation in expressing my firm belief of his being able to meet the whole amount himself. Of the principals I cannot speak with so much
confidence,'not being well acquainted with their resoktrces. Under all circumstances, I'should hot feel
incliied to withhold from them any portion of thd
funds for which the bond was given."
On the day on which this letter was Wvritten,
Cornthwaitd & Cary 'called on Williams, to inquire
whether he had satisfied Coolidge & Co. respecting
the bond. Williams stated the subitance of the letter he lad written, and read to him a pait of it. One
of the firm of Payson & Co. also called-on him to
make the same in.quiry, to whom he gave the same
informnatiQn, qnd also read fron'hi letter-book the
letter Jle had written.
Two days after this, the bill 'in the declaration
mentioned, was drawn by Cornthwaite & C.ary, and
paid to Payson & Co. in part of the protested bill of

OF THE UTED -STE .

2,70D dollars, by whom it was presented to Coolidgg
" to accept it, on which it was pro& CQ., who refused
tested, and- this action brought by the holders.
On this testimony, the counsel for the defendants
insisted that the plaintiffs were not entitled to a verdict; but the court instructed .the jury, that if they
were satisfied that'Williams, on the application of the
plaintiffs, made after seeing the letter from Coolidge
& Co. to Cornthwaite & Cary, did decldre that he
was.satiqfied with the bond referred to in that letter,
as vell with iespect to its execution, as- to the sufficiency of the obligors to pay the same; and that the
plaintiffs, upon the faith and credit of the said de.
claration, and also of the letter to Cornthwaite &Caiy, and without having seen or known the zontents of-the letter from Coolidge & Co. to Williams
did receive and take the bill in the declaration mentioned, they were entitled to recover in the present
action; and that it was.no legal objection to such recovery that the promise to accept the present bill
was made to the drawers thereof, previous to the
existence of such bill, or that the bill had been
takep in part payment of a pre-existing debt, or that
the said Williams, in making the declarations aforesaid, did exceed the private instructions given to him
by Coolidge & Co., in their letter to him.
To this charge, the defendants excepted; a verdict was given for the plaintiffs, and judgment rendered thereon, which judgment is now before this
court on a writ of error.
The letter from Coolidge & Co. to Cornthwaite
4 Cary cotains, no reference to their letter to Wil-

1S17.
Goohdgo

V.
,

OASES IN" THE SUPREME COUIt.

liams which might suggest the necessity of seeing
that letter, or of obtaining information respecting its
Coolidge
T.
contents. They refer Cornthwaite & Cary to WitPay-. liams, not for the instructions they had given him,
1817.

''Ji'

but for his judgment and decision on the bond of indemnity. Under such circumstances, neither the
drawers nor the holders of the bill could bo required to know, or could be affected by, the private in"structions given to Williams. It was enough for
them, after seeiig the letter fiom Coolidge & Co. to
Cornthwaite & Cary, to know that Williams was
satisfied with the execution of the bond and the sufficiency of the obligors, and had informed Coolidge
& Co. that he was so satisfied.
This difficulty being removed, the question of law
rihich arises from the charge given by the court to
the jury is this: Does a promise to accept a bill
amount to an acceptance to a person who has taken
it on-the credit of that promise, although the promise
was made before the existence of the bill, and although it is drawn in favour of a person who takes
it for a pre-existing debt ?
In the case of Pillans & Rose v. Van Mierop &
Hopkins, (3 Burr, 1663,) the credit on which the
bill was drawn was given before the promise to accept was made, and the promise was made previous
to the existence of the bill. Yet in that case, after,
two arguments, and much consideration, the court of
king's bench, (all. the judges being present and concurring in opinion,) considered the promise to accept
as an acceptance.
Between this case and that under the considera-

OF THE UNITED STATtS.

tion of the court, no essential distinction is perceived. 1817.
But it is contended, that the authority of the case of
Pillans & Rose v. Van Mierop & Hopkins is impaired
V.
Paysonby subsequent decisions.
In the case of Pierson v. Dunlop el d. (Cowp. 57 1.)
the bill was drawn and presented before the conditional promise was made on which the suit was instituted. Although, in that case, the holder of the bill
recovered as on an acceptance, it is supposbd that the
principles laid down by Lord Mansfield, in delivering
his opinion, contradict those laid down in Pillans
& Rose v. Van Mierop & Hopkins. His lordship ob.
serves, "It has been truly said, as a general rule,
that the mere answer of a merchant to the drawer of a
bill, saying, "he will duly honor it," is no acceptance,
unless accompanied- with circumstances which may
induce a third person to take the bill by endorsement;
but if there are any such circumstances, it may
amount to an acceptance, though the answer be contained in a letter to the drawer."
If the case of Pillans & Rose v. Van Mierop &
Hopkins had been understood to lay down the broad
principle that a naked promise to accept amounts to
an acceptance, the case of Pierson v. Dunlop certainly narrows that principle so far as to require additional circumstances proving that the person- on
whom the bill'was drawn, was bound by his promise,
either because he had funds of the drawer in his
hands, or because his letter had given credit to the
bill, and induced a third person to take it.
It has been argued, that those circumstances to
which Lord Mansfield alludes, must be apparent on

CASES IN THE SUPREUE COYRT
1817.
Coolidge

V.

Payson.

the (ace of the letter. But the court pan perceiveno reason for this'opinion. It is -neither warranted
by the words of Lord Mansfield, nor by the circumstances of the case in which he used them. "The
mere answer of a merchant to the drawer of a bill,
saying he will duly honor it, is no acceptance unlesd
accompanied with circumstapces," &c. The answer
must be "accompanied with circumstances ;" but it is
not said that the, answer must cQntain those circumstances. In the case of -Pierson v. Dunlop, the answer did not contain thosd circumstances. They were
not found in the letter, but were entirely extrinsic,
Nor can the court perceive any reason for distinguishing between circumstances which appear in the letter
containing the promise., and those which are derived
from other sources. The great motive for construing a promise to accept, as an acceptance, is, that it
gives credit to the bill; and may induce a third person
to take it. .It the letter be not shown, its contentsi
whatever they may be,, can give no credit to the bill;
and if it be shown, an absolute promise to accept will
give all the credit to the bill which a full confidence
that it will be accepted can give it. A conditional
promise becomes absolute when the condition is perfo rmed.
In the case of Mason v. Hunt, (Doug. 296,,) Lord
Mansfield said, " there isno doubt but an agreument
to accept may ampunt to an acceptance; and it may
be couched in such words as to put a third person
in a better condition than the drawee. If qnq man,
to give credit to another, makes an absolute promise
to accept his bill, the drawee, or any oiner, proon,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

may show such propiise upon-the exchange, to get
credit, and a -third person, who should advance his
money upon it, would have nothing tio
do with the
equitable dircumstances which might subsist between
the drawer and acceptor."
What is it that ".the drawer, or any other person,
may show upon the exchange ?" It is the promise
to accept-the naked promise. The motive to this
promise-need not, and cannot be examined. The
promise itself, when shown, gives the credit; and
the merchant who makes it is bound by it.
The cases cited from CoWper augl Douglass are,
it is admitted, cases' in which the bill is not taken for
a pre-existing debt, but is purchased on the credit
of the promise to accept. But in the case of Piltans
v. Van Mierop, the credit was given before the promise was received or the bill drawn; and in -ll cases
the person who receives such a bill in payment zf a
d'ebt, will be prevented thereby from taking other
means to obtain the money due to him, Any ingredient of fraud woiuld, unquestionably, affect the
whole transaction; but the mere circumstance, that
the bill was taken for a pre-existing. debt has not
been thought sufficient to do away the effect of a
promise to accept.
In.the case of Johnson and another v. Collins,
(I East, 98.,) Lord Kenyon shows much dissatisfaction with the previous, decisions on this subject; but
it is not believed, that the judgment given in that
case would, even in Erigland, change the law as
previously established. In the case of Johnson v.
VOL. I.

K

1817.
Coolidge

Paywn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

74
1817.
g
'C
Coolidge

V.

Payao.

Collins, the promise to accept was in a letter to the
drawer, and is not stated to have been shown to the

endorser. Consequently, the bill does not appear
to have been taken on the credit of that promise.
It was a mere naked promipe, unaccompanied with
circumstances which might give credit to the bill.
The counsel contended, that this naked promise
amounted to an acceptance; but the court determined otherwise. In giving his opinion, Le Blanc, J.,
lays down the rule in the words used by Lord
Mansfield, in the case of Pierson v. Dunlop; and
Lord Kenyon said, that "this was carrying the doctrine of implied acceptances to the utmost verge of
the law; and he doubted whether it did not even go
beyond it." In Clarke and others v. Cock, (4 East
57.,) the judges again express their dissatisfaction with
the law as established, and their regret that any other
act than a Written acceptance on the bill had ever
been deemed an acceptance. Yet they do not undertake to overrule the decisions which they disapprove. On the contrary, in that case, they unanimously declared a letter-to the drawer promising
to accept the bill, which was shown to the person
who held it, and took it on the credit of that letter,
to be a virtual acceptance. It is true,-in the case
of Clark v. Cock, the bill was made before the
promise was given, and the judges, in' theii opinions, use some expressions which indicate a
distinction between bills drawn before and after
the date of. the promise; but no case has been
decided -on this distinction; and in Pillans and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Rose v. Van Mierop and HQpkins, the letter was
written before the bill was drawn.
The court can perceive no substantial reason for
for conthis distinttion. The prevailing inducement
sidering a promise to accept, as-an acceptance, is that
credit is thereby given to the bill. Now, this credit
'is given as entirely by'a letter written before the
date of thebill as by one written afterwards.
It is of much importance to merchant- that this
question should be at rest. Upon a review of the
cases which are reported, this court is of opinion,
that a letter written within a reasonable time before

or after the date of a bill of exchange, describing it
in terms not to be mistaken, and promising to accept
it, is, if shown to the person who afterwards tAkes
the bill on the credit of the letter, a virtual accept,ance binding the person who makes the promise.
This is such a case. There is, therefore, no error
in the judgment of the circuit court, and it is affirmed
with costs.
Judgment affirmed
a By the FrPnch law, the acceptance of a bill of exchnnge
must be in writing, and signed by
the party accepting it. Ordonance de 1673, tit.
5. art. 2. Code'
de Commerce, liv. 1. I. 8. art.
122. It appears by the discussions in the council of state in
drawing up the new Commercial
Code, that no provision requirifig
the acceptance to be written on
the bill itself was inserted, in ordpr to avoid a mistaken inference

which might be drawn from it
that the law meant to prohibit the
acceptance of a bill by a letter
promising to accept (pr
cktre
missive.) "L'acceptation e4 ordinairement donn sur la ilkre de
change mime'; muis benucoup d'auteurs etrangcrs, elsinrtout les doeteurs flolladair, llemnand, et Espagnols, pensent qu'dle pet aussi
6tredonnA parIdIre missire. Cetc
opinion a a6tadepte parle conseil
d'itat, et se trauve consacric par

1817.
Coolidge

V.

CASES IN THE SUPRE5ME COURT
l'iticle qui nous occupe. En effer, more limited application of the
d'un c6ti, it a evit6 de dire dans cet principle may'seem to be indica'Tee Dos
article'que l'aepteation seraitdon- ted. Btit upon an inspection of
Hermanos. ne6 sur la lettre de change, de peur that case, it will be found that the
de paroitreitablir une rigle abso- supreme couit of Now-York de,
lue de laquelle on se seraitfaitune clined expressing any opinion upfin non-recevoircontre I'acceptation tffi the question whether a propar lettre missives. D'un autre mise to accept a bill not in easo
c6ti, le conseila pens que, puisque would amount to an accoptaswo,
la loin'exclut pas l'aceptation and whether an endorsee could
par lettre missive, on en onclueroit avail himself of such promise and
naturllement qu'elle la perme?." maintain an action on the bill
The suEsprit du Code de Commerce, par against the drawee.
preme court of Massachusetto
J. G. Locr6, tom. 2. p. 89.
Such is the law of France on also, in the case of Wilsen v. Clethi; subject. That of England is ments, (3 .Mass. Rep. 1.,) avoidfully analyzed in the above opi- ed a determination of the question
nion. In the tribunals of our own whether a promise to accept be-'
country, the first case which oc- fore the bill was drawn, amounted
curs on the subject, 'is that of to an acceptance, because the bill
M'Kim v. Smith et al. (1 Hall's was not drawn in due season after
Law Journal,486.,) in which the the promise was made. But the
doctrine of the *above opinion is above decision in the text may to
fully recognised.
The next is considered as settling the law of
that of M'Evers v. Mason, (10 the country on this subjc.ct.
Johns. Rep. 207.,) in which a
1817.

(PRIZE.)

The Dos HXr*MANqos---Grem, Claimant.
In prize causes, the evidence to acquit, or condemn, must come, in tho
first instance, from the papers and crew of the captured ship.
It is the duty of the captors to bring the ship's papers into the registry of the district court, and to have the examiua4ions of the principal offers and seamen of the captured ship taken on the standior
interrogatores.

