1F THE UNITED STATIM
1817.
Tho
(ortuna.

The

FORTUNA-K-ause,

ef A Claimants.

A question of proprietary interest and con'cealmont of papers.
ther proof ordered, open to both parties.
APPEAL

Far-

from the circuit court fok the district of

North Carolina.
This .ship, sailing under Russian colours, left Riga
on the 2d of September, 1813, for London, where
she arrived; ,nd from thence sailed on the 18th of
November, 1813, in ballIt, on a. voyage to the
West-Indies; took a British convoy at- Potsniouth,
in England, and proceeded with it to Barbadoes, and
thence to Jamaica. From thence she sailed to the
Havarina, where she -arrived on the 12th of Februa-,
ry, 18U'; took in a cargo of the produce of Cuba,

and left the port of the Havanna on the 25th March,
1814, under protection of a British convoy bound
to Bermuda. After parting with the convoy, she
was captured on the 19th of April, 1814, in N. lat.
*38, W. long. 60, by the private armed schooner Roger, add brought into Wilmington) N. C., for adjudication. The master and all the crew, except the
mate and two seamen, were taken out and kept on
board the privateer until the 14th of August, when
they were sent in to be examined.
A claim was interposed by the master, for the ship,
as the property of Martin Krause, of Riga, one of
the house of trade of M. & I. Krause, of that place.
VOL.1,

X

CASES I4 THE SUPREME COURT

for 1520 boxes of sugar and 144 quintals ,of Cam.
peachy wood, as the property of M. & I. Krause.
The
F r una. For 160 boxes of suga1, as the property of J. F.
Muhlenbruck, as the master understood, "a native
of Germany, and of late usual abode at Hamburg,"
and who went out in the vessel, and purchased and
shipped the whole of the cargo. And for small pertion- of the cargo, as the property of the master,
and of a Swedish captain, Steinmeitz.
There were found on board a certificate of the built
of the ship in Finland; a passport or .sea-brief to
proceed to London granted at Riga by the harbour,
master and commander of that plce; a bill of sale
of the ship from P. A. Severnon & Son, of Riga, to
Martin Krause; and certificates of naturalization of
the crew. The cargo was. documented in the usual
formal manner.
The prize-master, in his affidavit on delivering
up the ship's*papers, sworn to on the 7th of July,
1814, states, "that the said papers were found in
said ship at three different periods, and that on coming into his possession, or on' discovery thereof, he
proceeded with them forthwith, and without delay, to
the admiralty office, &c., and that the last parcel of
papers were, on the 8th of June last, being a considerable time after the arrival of the said ship, found
concealed in a tin box, carefully let into an old piece
of timber, to wit, part -f the frame or belfrey of a
vessel, by means of a mortice hole, which said mortice hole was covered with a piece of wood, in a way
calculated to elude observation, and which said piece
of timber was stowed away among the ship's fire1817.

'1

'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

w'od," &c. Certain papers were also found in the
master's trunk' after the ship's arrival.
In his examination, on the standing interrogatories,
the master swore that he was employed and appointed by a Mr. Hoffengartner, who gave him possession of the vessel in London, in 1812; that the said
Hoffengartner was then travelling; and died about
March, 1813; but his place of abode, birth, and
country, the master did not know. That Messrs.
Bennet & Co., of London, gave him his instructions, and informed him that Martin Krause had
directed them to fit out the ship and order her to
the Havanna. That the ship had before gone
by some other name, which he did not recollect.
That a bill of sale of the ship was made to Martin Krause, by the person from whom the said
Krause purchased, but whose name he did not recollect, nor the time when it was made, nor in the presence of what witnesses; and there was no engagement different from, or in addition to, the bill of sale.
He assigned as his reasons for placing the papers in
the piece of wood, that they were partly papers not
belonging to the vessel, and partly private letters,
and he did'not wish to have them mixed with the
ship's papers, as it might possibly create confusion,
and that they might be put aside when boarded by
any private armed vessels, and, if there should be
a necessity, produced when called for.
The ship and cargo were condemned in the courts
below, and the cause was brought by appeal to this
court.

1817.
The
Fortuna.

i64
1817.

%-Thet
Fprtuna.
Feb. Eth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Gaston, for the appellants and claimant9, artgued, that the character of the vessel and cargo, as
manifested by the original evidence, apart from the
papers found concealed on board, was strictly fieu.,
traf, and entitled the claimants to'restitution; and
that the national character was not altered by the
papers thus found. That a concealment of papers
is not cause of condemnation, when accounted for
on reasonable grounds; and that even actual spolicttion of papers is not conclusive, but only presumptive
evidence of hostile interests. Presunptio slabitu7
donee contrariapiobetar, 1. e. until the concealed papeis are produced; the case of ihe Concordia" shows"
in what light the wise man, who presides in the English court of admiralty (although in general, sufliciently austere towards neutrals) considered a f,-porary concealment even ofmaterialpapers; that he
viewed it not as authorizing farther proof merely,
but as entitling the party to immediate restitution.
Still less is the master's fault, inthis respect, to be
visited, vindictively, on the owners, where there has
been such gross misconduct on the part of the captors as in the present instance, They have violated
the positive text of the president's instructions in
taking the master, and a great majority of the crew
out of the -captured vessel, and keeping them on
board, the privateer, and in not delivering up the
papers found on board until long after the vessel had
reached the port where qhe was carried for adjudication.' The court can only animadvert upon such
a 1 .Bob. 102, 103.
& See the President's Instructions. ApPnziwx, Note IL

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Irsconduct by depriving the captors of their spoil:
at all events, this, together with the other circumstances of the case, entitles the claimants to the
privilegie of farther proof.
Mr. Wirt, contra, accounted for taking out thG
captured crew by the circumstance of the weakness
of the privateer. The instructions require, not
merely that the captors should send in the master
and one or more of the principal persons belonging
to the captured vessel for examination on the standing interrogatories, but they imply that the master
should deliver up all papers; and his failing, in this
case, to deliver up all the documents which were
necessary to support the national character of the
vessel and cargo, is sufficient to excuse the captors
for a slight departure from the letter of instructions,
whose spirit they have obeyed. But supposing it
to be an irregularity, itis now become immaterial;
and the only questions are, whether the property
appears to be hostile on the original evidence; or, if
its character be doubtful, whether the claimants.have
forfeited their privilege of farther proof. The rules
of prize practice are, that if the captured property
appears to be hostile, condemnation follows; but if it
does5 not appear to be clearly neutral, restitution
does not follow of course, hut the burthen of proof
is thrown upon the claimants to show it to be entitled to restitution: if they are unable to do this
from the original evidence, farther proof may be ordered, unless excluded by the misconduct of the
daimants. It is not sufficient that the ship and caiz-

165
1817.
The

Fortun.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
T
The
Fortuna.

go are documented by formal papers; the other circumstances, and the nature of the case, may show
that these are merely the cloaks of fraud; and the
necessary iimplicity of the prize proceedings forbids
the court from seeking for evidence "aiunde,unless
there be reasonable grounds for doubt. Still less
can a resort be had to extraneous tedtimony where
the documents are neither regular nor supported
by the examinations in preparalorio. Nor is a formal
support of the documents by oaths sufficient, if the
oral testimony is outweighed by the' circumstances
of the transaction.' A fraudulent concealment of
papers is a substantive ground of condemnation.
Neutrals are bjound to show belligerant cruisers all
their papers; and a court of prize is authorized to
presumjp the worst, if there be two constructions,
iel of Vigh 'accounts for the concealment, and the
other does not. The case is deficient in nearly
every one of 'the documents which the writers on
public law, and the law of insurance require to show
the neutral character of the ship and cargo." Mere
formal papers are a dead letter, unless supported by
,oral testimony.", But the master is an insufficient
witness to support even the imperfect documents
found on board this ship, as his testimony is falsified,
and is nullified by his fraudulent concealment of the
.papers. Nor,is this a case of farther proof, which is
c The Eenroom, 2 Rob. 1. The Calypso, lb. 164. T6e Rosalic
and Betty, lb. 343.
The Odin, 1 Rob. 240.
The Vigilantia,
1b. 6, 7.
d 1 .Marshallon Ins. 406. a. Condy's ed.
e The Juno, 2 Rob. 101. The Odin, 1 Rob. 248.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the privilege of honest ignorance, mistake, or negli- 1817.
gencef In such a case of concealment as the present, where the papers are extracted trom the late- Fortuna.
brw of the ship, there can be no certainty but what
some of the documents are still suppressed, or have
been spoliated; and the reason of the rule which refuses farther proof applies with full force where the
parties have shown themselves, by their misconduct$
unfit to be trusted with an order for farther proof.
The case is infected throughout with falsehqod, and
is analogous to that of the St. NYicholas, in all the
machinery of fraud.F
Mr. Hopkinson, in reply. The instructions are
imperative, and cannot be dispensed with by the
captors. The excuse for the depriving the captured
vessel of her crew is unfounded in fact; and, if true,
is not sufficient to justify the captors, because the
master might have been left, and there is no authority to support the supposed discretion of the
captors in this particular. The dictum of Marshall,
as to the papers which ought to be found on board
a neutral ship, is not in point; he shows, in a treatise on a branch of municipal law, what papers the
insured are bound to have on board, to prevent not
merely condemnation but even detention, capture, or
carrying in for adjudication - all Qf which are perils
within the policy, and, under some circumstances.
f 1 W7eat. Appendix, Note II, p. 504., and the authorities tberE
cited. Livingston d aL. v. The Maryland Ins. Co., 7 Cranch, S45.
g I Wheat. 417.

CASES IN

1817.

%

The

Fortuna.

March 17th.

THE SUPREME COURT

may entitle the insured to abandbn. But the law ok
nations only requires a neutral ship to be navigated
with such documents as are required by the lbcal
law of the country to which she belongs, and the
property of the cargo to be proved by the usual papers which the general usage of the commercial
world has made necessary: even the want of these
is not a substantive ground of-con'demnation, but
knay be explained by the claimants, if sdsceptible of
explanation. But the burthen of proof is not throwa
on theta in the case of a lawihl voyage i9 a ship,
and with a cargo, documented as neutral. In such
a case every favourable presumption is to be indulged; and even the unfavourable presumption arising
from spoliation, or concealment of papers, ceases
when the nature of the documents destroyed or concealed is made to appear. There may be a concealment in fact, which is-not a concealment in law.
There may be an innocent concealment; and here
is no evidence of a fraudulent concealment, or'of
spoliation. The papers, when discovered, must afswer for themselves. If an immoral.play, or a me.
retricious novel had been found concealed on board,
it would indeed have argued bad taste and 'want of
morals in the master, but could no more enure to
condemnation than a volume of Plutarck or the.
",Brtish'Spy."
Mr. Justice Joirmsori delivered the opinion of 'the
court, ordering this cause to farther proof, open to
both parties.
ORDER.-It is ordered, in this cause, that both

OF THE UNITED STATES.

parties have liberty to produce farther proof; that

1817.

all examinations of witnesses be taken under cornfie
mission according to the rule of this court; that Bothneaana

original letters and documents be, in all cases, produced, or a sufficient reason assigned for not producing such originals. And Ihat the captors have
lea~ve to inspect letter books and books of account
relative to this adventure wherever they requiae it.

(rnZE.)

The BoTHNEA and the JAHNSTOFF.
A question of collusive capture.

Condemnation to the captort,

from the circuit court for -the district of
TMassachusetts,
From the papers found on board these vessels, and
the preparatory examinations in the court below, it
appeared that they were foreign vessels, having on
board, as was admitted on all sides, false and simulated Swedish papers. They both sailed from Halifax, N. S., about the 24th of November, 1813, laden
with cargoes of British manufactured goods, destined
for the United States; and, on the same day, were
captured near the Ragged Islands, either really or
collusively, by the privateer Washington, of 242
tons, one gun and fifteen men, belonging to Portland,
APPEAL

VOL. i].

Y

