OF THE UNITED STATE9S.
1817.

The Mary.

The MARY.
WVhere an enemy's vessen was captured by a private armed vessel of
the United States, and subsequently dispossessed by the force or
terror of another; the prize was, under the circumstances of the
ase, adjudged to the first captor, with costs and damages.

APPEAL

from the circuit court foi the district of

Massachusetts.
The British schooner Mary, whereof Charles
Thomas, jr. a British subject, domiciled at St. Johns,
-New Brunswick, was late owner and master, sailed
under convoy from St. Johns, New Brunswick, bound
to Castine, then in the military occupation of the
British, laden with a cargo, the growth, produce,
and manufacture of British possessions, shipped by
British merchants domiciled in St. Johns, N. B. to
inerchants resident in Castine.
The schooner Mary was captured by the private
armed schooner Cadet, between Duck Island and
Mount Desert, on the night of the 25th of December, 1814, between the hours of 11 and 12;
the convoy under which the Mary sailed, was in
sight of the Mary at the time of her capture; but no
other vessel was in sight at that time. The Cadet
came up with. the Mary so suddenly, that she had'
no opportunity to make resistance, .or give notice to
the convoy of her, datiger.
After the capture of the Mary, the principal part

124

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18-17.
"

'

TheWary.

of her cargo was taken on board the Cadet, carried
into the district of Massachusetts, and, in the district

court of said district, condemned to the Cadet
a'G
prize of war.
On the morning of the 2Rth of December, after
sun-rise, the Cadet and Mary being then in company,
an armed brig, the PaulJones, was discovered, by
them, under such suspicious circumstances, as to induce them t6 believe her to be a British cruiser, and,
in consequence, to part, and steer different courses,
The sails of the PaulJones were of English canvass.
$he pursued the Mary, firing at her, until between
4 and 5 o'clodk, r. i. of the 26th of December;
the Mary had then arrived in a bay of the United
States, to wit, Wheeler's bay, a bay frequented by
American vessels. The Mary being within half a
mile of the shore, and within the same distance of
the Paul Jones, and being in such a situation as
rendered it certain that she must be intercepted by
the Paul Jones, the prize master and crew, considering i't certain, from her appearance and aetions, that
the Paul Jones was an English cruiser, left' the
Mary for the shore, after haiing thrown over.her
anchor, and ordered the British captain, and his son
of twelve years of age, who were left on board, to
pay'away the cable.
After the prize crew left the-Mary, the British
master hoisted English colours, and steered the
schooner towards the PaulJones.
Ten minutes after the prize crew left the Mary,
she was boarded by a boat from the Paul 'Jones
when the English captain informed them that thq

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mary was an English vessel, prize to the Cadet,
when the PaulJones immediately stood off from the

with English colours
land with the Mary in company,
still flying.
A boat, then out to the windward of the Mary,
and within musket shot, or a quarter of a mile distant from her, (the crew then lying on their oars,
the sea smooth, and the wind light,) repeatedly
,hailed the Mary, both before and after she was
boarded by the eaul Jones, and received no answer.
The prize waster of the Mary, immediately on
his getting on shore, despatched a -boat on board her
to ascertain the national character of the vessel by
whom she was boarded, and claim her if the boarding vessel should prove American; but, before the
boat could get off, the Paul Jones had sailed with
the Mary in company.
Libels against the Mary and 'cargo were filed in
the district court for the district of Maine,. by
David Elwellt in behalf of himself, and the owners,
officers, and -crew, of the private armed schooner
Cadet, 'and by John Thomson Hilton, in behalf of
himself, and the owners, officers, and crew, of the
-private armed brigantine Paul Jones. The Mary
and cargo were condemned in the district court for
the district of Maine, to John Thomson Hilton,
and the owners, officers, and crew, of'the Pdul Jones.
An appeal was entered from said decree by David
Elwell, and the owne's, officers, and crew, of the
Cadet, in the circuit court of Massachusetts. In. consequence of the affinity of the judges to the parties, the decree of the district court of Maine was,

1817.

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT
T 1817.
The Mary.

Feb. 12th.

by consent of parties, affirmed pro forma, and the
cause brought, by aVpcal, to this court.
Mr. Jones, for the appellants. This is a case of
novel impression as to the circumstances, but long
since settled in principle. The prize crew of the
Cadet were driven out of the Mary by the terror or
the force of the Paul Jones. It is not the case of a
prize abandoned and taken as res nullius, nor retaken
by the original British crew, and renaptured by the
Paul Jones. 'The prize was, in a place of salbty, infraprrsidia; not constructively, as of a fleet, or a
neutral port, but of a port ot the captor's country.
Ln order to constitute a dereliction of the property
acquired in the thing captured, the abandonment
must be voluntary, and with intent to relinquish the
right acquired. The origin of this principle is to be
found in the Roman code, which distinguishes between a voluntary and compulsory abandonment of possession; the first chariging the right of property,
whilst the latter his no such effect.a It is applied to
a Just.Inst. L. 2. t. 1, sec. 46. 47.
Alia sane causa est earum rerum,
qum in tempestate levandea navis
bausa ejiciuntur. lice enim dominorum permanent: quia palam
est, eas non eo anime ejici, quod
quis eas habere nolit, sed quo magis cum ipsa navi maris pericuitm
effugiat. Qua de causa, si quis
eas fluctibus expulsas, V'el etian, in
ipso marl nactus, lucrandi animo
abstulerit, furtum committit. So
alo,D'Habreu, in commenting on

the 9th article of the Fronch
prize ordinance, (whigh prescribes
that, if a captured vessel, not having been recaptured, is abandon.

ed by the enemy, or if by storms
or other accidents, it return$ Into
the possession of French subjects,
before having been carried into
any enemy's port, it shall be ro.
stored to the former owner, if
claimed withinma year nnd a day.
although tie possession of the enemy may have continued more than,

OF THE UNITEI STATER.

the law of prize by the different elementary writersO
It was practically enforced in the case of the Lord
'Nelson,cand by this court in the case of then Mary
Ford." Striking the colours is to be deemed the
real deditio, and the consummation of the capture.
So, also, the capture is held to be consummated
where the prize is completely under the dominion, of
the capfor, has no ability to resist, and no prospect
of escapef -ere
was no recapture by the enemy
twenty-four hours,) makes the fol- this subject is alluded to by Lord
lowing observation, "Quoique
Mnsield. that by whatever
Particle de l'orduuuance ne pa- length of ume, or other czrcubr
roisse pas faire la difference en- stance the property in prizes is
-mun vaisseau abandonn& par les vested, so as to hz- the former
ennemis, et celni qui V'a 6t6 par ownerin case of recapture or sale,
P'effet d'une'ternpdte on de quel- " the iitant the captor has got
que antre iccident imprvu ; il passession, no friend, no .fellow.
est nanmoins ,'ertain qu'il y soldier, or ally, can take it from
en & quelqu'une. Nous n'entre- him; because it would be a violaprendrons point ici de la faire sen- tion of hispropery." And it is in
tir: ontre que cela nous 6carte- this sense must be understood
mit de notre objet, il.n'est per- what is repeated by so many wrisonne, taut soit peu vers6 dans la ters from .the civiL jaw, Quinex
jurisprudence, qui ignore que l'a- hostibus capiuntur, sTAVrIaM capiLandon volontaire fait perdre la entiurn fiunt. An inchoate tiUe
proprhet6, tout an contrhaire de ce- immediately accrues as against
lui qui est forcde." D'Hareu any cruiser of the same nation or
on Prizeu, ch. 5. ยง10. tom. 2. p. its allies in the war, which title
95. of D. Bounemant's Transla- cannot be devested hut by a roluntary abandonment on the part of
tion.

SBynkershoek, Q. J.Pub. dc. the first captor. 2 Woodewon, 455.
c Edwards,79.
d 3 Dall. 198.
e I Bob. 195. The Rebeckah.
f 3 Rob. 246. The Edward

4. p. S5 of Du Poncean's Translation, Id. ch. 5. p. 36. 2 Atzu4
7.
Part 2.ch.. 4 art.. .I.S.
2 Woodeson, 454. See also2 Burr.
693. Gos et at. v. Withers. In
that, case the.true distinction oa

and Mary.

1817.
Txom Mary.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
The Mary

crew, because no resistance nor escape; and the British master could clearly not have maintained a claim
for salvage in the'courts of his own country had the'
P.ul Jones turned out to be a British privateer.
Mr. ,Webster, contra. This is a case of voluntary
relinquishment of the prize; aid even if it was produced by terror of a supposed enemy, that will not
make it involuntary. The case of the Lord Nelson
does not determine the present case; but Sir William Scott there puts the very case now before the
court, and decides it by asking, "Suppose, therefore,
that after this voluntary abandonment, the ship 'had
been met with, by some French cruiser, and that by
means of jury-masts, they had succeeded in'carrying he into a French port; can there be any doubt
that she would have been prize to the second captor?" In the case of the Ann, which was a question of jurisdiction in a revenue cause, the seizure
being abandoned before adjudication, this court
illustrate their opinion by' analogy to the prize
law, holding, that capture gives no authority to
proceed to adjudication, if abandoned before judicial proceedings are commenced.F So, also, in the
case of the Astrea, it was determined, that an interest acquired by possession is devested by the lost
of possession, from the ve'!y nature of a title acquired
in warP The case of the Adventure is likewise in
pointO There was no fraud on the part of the Paul
Jones. She had a right to chase under any colours;
C 9 Cranch, 289.

h 1 Whcat. 125.

i 1b. naote Vf)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'but she neither chased tior fired under enemy's
colours: .whilSt the prize showed n colours, and
therefore invited. pursuit; and was found in the possession of her originl British master, and therefore
aufhorized detention. "She was not hifra prwsidia
whilst lying in Wheeler's Bay; but even supposing
she had been, if she was afterwards abandoned by
her original captor, the Paul Jones had a right to
take possession. The prize master did not thijik it
worth while to risk being taken prisoner, and therefore abandoned his prize.
Mr. Jones in reply. The case apposed by Sir
William Scott, in delivering his jt,-',ment in the Lord
Nelsen,is of a voluntary abandonment, and not one
produced by the application of iorce or terror. In
the case of the Ann, this court, though incidentally describin the general doctrine, adhere to their accustomed accuracy and precision of language. "A
voluntary abandonment" is the phrase used by the.
learned judge, who delivered the opinion of the
court; and he proceeds to state, "It is not meant to
assert that a tortious ouster of possession, or fraudulent rescue or relinquishment after seizure, will devest
the jurisdiction." The precedent of the Astrea does
not apply. In that case there was a capture and recapture, and a second recapture; but no question
whether the abandonment by the first captors was
voluntarv or not. The case of the Adventure was
not a question of derelict; but whether the belligerant may invest a neutral with his rights at sea, in
fraud of the contingent right of recapture by the
VOL. II.

R

18.17.

130

1817.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

otherbelligerant.

The question here is not whether

VThe Mary. fraud was 'Used, but whether force vas used.

The

prize crew supposed they were surrendering to British captors : but the Mary was not in a situation to

be captured by a cruiser of the United States; she
was not derelict, but lying in a rqadktead, which is a
praesidium, though not guarded by forts and castles.
leh. 14th.

Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the

court.
We are of opinion that the*facts stated, in this
appeal, maxe a clear case of tortious dispossession
on the part of the Paul Jones, The privateer Cadet had, with great gallantry, captured the Mary,
and been in possession of her part of a night and
day. The prize was close in upon the American
coast, and making for a port which was open before her. It was not until the superior sailing of
the Paul Jones made it manifest that the prize must
be cut off fi'om this port, and until she had been rppeatedly fired upon, th.t'the prize crew abandoned
her. There exists not a pretext in the case that
this abandonrnefit was voluntary, or would have taken place but for the hostile approach of the Paul
Jones. Whether the vis major acted upon the
force or the fears of the prize crew is immaterial,
since actual dispossession ensued.
But it is argued that the Paul Jones showed
American colours; the Mary ought not th erefore to
have feared her: the Mary showed no colours, she,
therefore, invited pursuit; and, finally, that the Paul
Jones found her in -the actual possession of her

OF THE UNITED S'_TATES.

131

original master, and, therefore, could not have done 1817.
Thev-.y
otherwise thafi detain her.
probable that
We think otherwise. It was more
an enemy would show false than true colours; The
circumstance of the Mary standing in for a friendly
shore, was less equivocal evidence of her character
than the exhibition of colours ; and,- after boarding
the Mary, and learning that she was a prize to the
Cadet, it was the duty of the captor to have repaired
the injury he had done, and, either by making sig-nals, sending a boat on shore, or a message by the
boat that did come off, to have recalled the prize
crew of the Cadet. But, instead of this, she instantly mans the prize, beiars away from the harbour, which was close under their lee,'aiid, k. carrying English colours until out of sight, completes
the conviction of the prize crew th.t the re-capture
was by an enemy.
We are of opinion that the decision of'the circuit
and district courts should be reversed; that the
prize should be adjudged to the Cadet;. and the
'case remanded for the assessment of reasonable damages in favour of the Cadet. But, considering
that the prize arriv'ed in safety, and probably in a
more secure harboutr than that for which she was
sailing, when seized by the Paul Jones, (althqugh it
is ceriainly a case for damages,) we are of opinion
the damages should be moderate.
Sentence reversed.
a Mr Justioe STor did not sit in this cause.

