JANUARY TERM, 1847.

91

Bridges et aL. v. Armour et'al.

argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby afflirmed, with
costs and damages at the rate of six per bent per annum.

D. BRDEs, JOHN K. MlAaa&Y, JArsr N. HARPER, AND STERN
SIMMONDS, LATE MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS IN TRADE,, UNDER TE

HENRY

NA=E, FIRM, AND STYLE OF BRiDGs, MABRAY, AND COmPANY,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. WILLIA1 Aumoun, HENRY LAKE, AND
ftLIx WALKER, LATE MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS IN TRADE, UNDER
THMENAME, FIRml AND STYLE OF ARmoUR, LAKE, AM WALKER,
DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Aparty upon the record, although divested of all interest in the event of the suit,
is not a competent witness m a cause.
If a person be declared a bankrupt at ,a time when a suit is pending to which he
is a party, his discharge would not be a bar to his liability for costs upon a judgment obtained subsequently to his discharge. His liability for costs, thercfore,
excludes him as a witness upon the ground f interest.
Ifthe event of the suit may increase the effects of the bankrupt in the hands of the
assignee, and thus increase the surplus which would belong to ii, he is an incompetent witness.

THis caSe was brought up, by *rit of error, from the DiStrict
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
On the 26th of September, 1840, Bridges, Mabray, & Co., gave
their promissory note to Armour, Lake, '& W lker,* or order,
payable one, day after date, for $3,158.69, being balance of bookaqcount, bearing interest at eight per cent per annum, from the ist
day of August, 1840, until paid.
The note not being paid, a suit was commenced on the 12th
of November following. As no question arises upon the pleadings,
it will be unnecessary to refer to them. They resulted in several
issues of fact.
On the trial, in June term, 1844, the plaintiffs offered in evidence
the deposition of Walker, a coplaintiff on the record, taken in answer to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories before a commissioner in New Orleans, in pursuance of a stipulation between the
attorneys ; and in which the attorney for the defendants agreed to
waive any exception for want of issuing a commission, ini due form,
to take the testimony, or for want of notice of its execution to the
defendants.
It appeared on the trial that Walker had obtained a discharge
under the bankrupt act, by which be was discharged from all his
-debts owing by.bim at the tinie of presenting his petition, to wit, on

92

SUPREME COURT.
Bridges et al. v. Armour et al.

the 30th of December, 1842. The discharge was granted on the
'12th of May, 1843.
In one of the interrogatories in chief the question was, put to the
witness Whether 'or not he had any interest in the event of the suit,
and, if none, in what manner his interest had ceased. To which
he answered, that he had none, and that his interest ceased on obtaining his discharge.
. The counsel for the defendants objected- to the admission of the
deposition, on the ground that Walker was a party to the record,
one of the plaintiffs in the suit ; but the objection was overruled, and
the evidenc& admitted, to which the.counsel exdepted. The plaintiffs had a verdict.
The cause wad argued by ,fr. Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by Mr. Cuhalmers, for the defendfnts in error.
-Mr. 'oxe contended,
1. That the deposition of Walker, then and still a party plaintiff
on the record, was inadmissible.
2. That. even if. his discharge, under the bankrupt act, could
make him a eompetent .witness, it was necessary to establish that
fact, as preliminary to 'the reading of his deposition, and by independent proof. "
Walker's name is still upon the record, and he is one of the
defendants in error in this court. The general rule upon the subject is clear, and the exceptions are fewr. The plaintiff in error
must bring himself within one of the exceptions. 1 "Peters, 596.
The case in 1 Peters, G. C. R. 307, was overruled by this court
in 12 Pqters, 145, where it is said that the circuit decision is not to
be sustained upon any ground.'
The only exception to the general rule is in cases of tort where,
there are -several defensdants. The court will direct one to be acquitted, if justice requires it, in' order that he may be a witness.
10 Pick. 18 ; 4 Wend. 453; 1 Bayly, S. C. 308 ; 10 Pick. 57 ;
2 Bayly,. 427. As to the. extinguishment of his'interest by the
bankruptcy, see 10 Wheaton, 367, 375,,384.
An insolvefit party cannot be a witness, but a certificated bankrupt may, provided his name be struck out of the record. 9 Cranch,
4153, 158.
JfMr. Chalmers, for defendants in error.
The only question presented upo.n fhe record in this case is the
competency of Felix Walker, a party to the record, whose deposition had been taken upon interrogatories, by consent, after his discbargh'under the bankrupt act qf Congress, of the lth of August,
1841. "The suit was comraenced 20th of November, 1840, by'
Armour, Lake, & Walker (the witness) against plaintiffs in errr;
on the 12th of May, 1843, Walker vas discharged ; and on the 24th

JANUARY TERMi 1847.

93

Bridges et at. v. Armour et al.'

of M'1ay, 1843, his deposition was taken, which upon the trial plahitiffs in error objected to being read, upon the ground "that the saidFelix Walker is a party to the record," which objection was overruled by the court, and the deposition was read ; to which opinion
of the court a bill of exception was taken, and upon it the casd is
before' this court.
It will not 'be seriously urged that Walker, the witness, was incompetent on'the ground of interest, he having received his discharge
under the bankrupt act, by which his interest was extinguisfied and
so far his competency restored. For whatever interest he may have
had, it was extinguished when 'he was sworn, and could form no
objection to his competency. 1 Phillips on Ev. 133, by Cow. & Hill;
Tennant -. Strachan, 4 Carr & Payne, 31 ; 1 Mood. & Malk. 377.
Indeed, if it did, plaintiffs in error waived the objection by failing
to make it when the deposition was taken, - it being known to them
atthe time. United States v. One Case of Hair-pencils, Pain's C.'
C. R. 400. So when a witness has been cross-examined by a
party with a full knowledge of an objection .to his competency, a
court of equity will not allow the objection. Flagg v. Mann,
2 Sumner's C. C. R. 486. But the objection was to the competency of Walker as a party to the record.
It is a general rule'in all commoh law courts, that a party on the
record cannot be admitted to testify ; the reason of this rule is the
interest of the party called, and wherever that Qan be extinguished
the rule ceases. In New York the rule, it seems , excludes the part"
without regard t6 the question of whether he be interested or 4tot ;
but see Stein v. Bowman, 13 Peters, 209, 219 ; Worrall vt. Jones,
7 Bing. 395 ; Aflalo v. Fourdrinier, 6 Bing. 306 ; Bate v. Russell,
1 Mood. & Malk. 332 ; Hart v. Heilner, 3 Rawle, 407 ; Scott v.
'Lloyd, 12 Peters, 145, 149 ; Henderson v. Anderson, 3 Howard,
73 ; Smyth t. Str~der, 4 Howard, 404.
In the case of Willings v. Consequa, I P~ters's C. C. Rep. 307,
Washington, J., says "the general rulc of law certainly is, that a
party to a suit cannot be a competent witness. -But it is equally so,
that the interest which that party has in the event of the suit, both as
to costs and the subject in dispute, lies at the foundation of the rule,
"and when that interest is removed the objection ceases to exist."
Mills,' J., in Lampton v. Lampton's Executors, 6 Monroe, 617,
618. Upon a fill view of all the cases,* the counsel for defendants in error respectfully contends, that the District Court did
not err in permitting the deposition of the party, Walker, to be read
* See those collected in 2 Phillips on Ev. by CQwen & Hill, notes, pages 134136, 260-266; Haswell a. Bussing, 10 Johns. 128; Scheruerho~n a. Schermerhornm,
1 Wend. 12M, citing 3 Esp. & 3 Campbell; Supervisors of' Chenango v. Birdsall,
4 Wend. 453; Duncan v. Vatson, 2 Smedes & MIarshall, 121; 1 Bing. 444 6 Bin.
16;&4 McH.
NewYork,24;
2 Day,on404;
Mass.note
R. 527;
3neHar.
152; 3 Starkie
Ev.111061,
g. 12 Ibid. 258; 16 Ibid. 118;

S.UPREME COURT.

,94

Bridges et al. v. Armour et al.

to the jury, upon the ground of interest, or being a party, and that
if incompetent for either cause the objection was waived by not
having been made at the taking of the deposition.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether a party on the record, divested of all interest in the
result of the suit, and therefore unexceptionable 'on that ground,
is a competent witness or not in the cause, can scarcely be regarded as an open question in this court, after what has already
fallen from it.
It is true, as stated by the counsel in the argument, that in all
the cases in which the question has arisen, the party was liable for
the costs of suit, and therefore interested ; but whenever the
question has been presented, the language of the court has bpen
uniform, that the witness was incompetent on the ground of his
being a party on the record; De Wolf v. Johnson, 10 Wheaton,
367, 384 ; Scott v. Lloyd, 12 Peters, 145; Stein v. Bowman et
al., 13 Peters, 209.
In Scott v. Lloyd the court referred to a case in I Peters's C. C.
R. 301, wheie it had been held, that a party named on the record
might be made a competent witnessi by a release of his interest,
and expressed its unqualified dissent; and in Stein v. Bowman et
al. (13 Peters, g09), in which Bowman, a palty, hail been admitted, the court, after noticing his liability for costs, remarked,
that if he had been released, qr a sum of money sufficient to cover
the costs of suit brought into court, his competency would not have
been restored.
The exclusion is placed on the ground of policy, which forbids a
party from being a witness in his own cause, and that this would be
the practical effect and operation of a rule of evidence, which would
enable a party
qualifytohimself for a witness by releasing his interest in the suit. Thugh nominally discharged by the, release, he
wduldyusually, be the real and substantial party to the suit in feeling,
if not in interest ; thereby holding out to litigants temptations to
perjury, and to the manufacturing of witnesses, in the administration of justice.
The question is one in respect to which different courts have entertained different opinions, and we admit that.the argument in favor
of the admission of the party, upon the general principles of evi-"
dence governing the competency of witnesses, is plausible, and not
without force. But the tribunals which maintain the competency
of the party, if divested" of interest, still hold that he cannot be
compelled to testify, and, also, that he cannot be- gompelled to
testify when called against his interest ; which, upon general principlps, if consistently carried out and allowed to .govern the question
in the admission of the party, 'would lead them to an opposite result.
They -should be compelled to testfy ; for if the admission is

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

95

Bridges et al. v. Arm'our et al.

pla6ed, as it undoubtedly is, upon principles applicable to- the ad-mission and rejection of witnesses generally, "i the cause, and the
party to be regarded as competent when without interest, or indifferent, or when called against his interest, then, like all other witnesses,
he should be subject to the writ of subpoena, and to the compulsory
process of the court ; and not left at liberty to withhold or bestow
his testimony at will.
There can be no distinction in principle, in this respect, in favor
of a party to the record, if allowed as a witness at all ; and the only
ground upon which the court can stop short of going the length indi-cated, is, by giving. up general principles, and placing itself upon
policy and expediency,.as upon the whole best subservng, in the
instances mentioned, the interests of justice, and of all concerned in
its administration,'- a ground which has been supposed, by those
holding a different opinion upon the question, quite suflicient to
justify the entire excrusion of the party.
But the witness in this case is also liable .to objection on the
ground of interest. This suit was pending at the time he was declared a bankrupt and obtained his discharge ; and it is quite clear,
if the defendants had eventually succeeded, the discharge would
n6t have been a bar to his liability for the costs of the suit. -The
judgment would have been a debt accruing subsequent to ' the- discharge, which could not have been proved under the act. Act of
Congress, August 19, 1841, § 4 (5 Statutes at Large, 443);
Haswell v. Thorogood, 7 Barn. and Cr. 705 ; Brough v. Adcock,
7 Bing. 650. His future effects, therefore, wbuld-have been liable.
And even if the discharge could have operated in bar of his liability for the costs, the witness was still interested to procure a
recovery in favor of the plaintiffs, as it would to .ilcrease the effects
of his estate in the hands of the assignee, to he extent of his interest in the demand in suit, and to increase the urplus, if any, which
would belong to him.
For this reason, a defendant, who-has pleaded his certificate, upon
which a nolle prosequi has been entered by the plaintiff, is not a
competent witness for his codefendant, without first releasing his
interest in this fund. He would otherwise be interested in defeating
a recovery of the demand.in suit, as he wQuld thereby diminish the
claims upon his joint and separate property, and thus increase the
surplus, if any, in winding up the estate. Butcher v. Forman,
6 Hill, 583 ; Aflalo v. Fourdriniet, 6 Bing. 306.
On all these orounds we think the witness was incompetent, and
that the deposition should have been rejected.
It has been suggested that the objection to the.witness came too
late, and should have been made before the commissioner and be-

fore the cross-examination. 'But the case shows that both parties
were aware of the'legal objections.to his competency, and that the
testimony was taken by an arrangement between them, for the pur-

96

SUPREME COURT.
Hall -. Smith.

pose of presenting the question to the court. The counsel for the
plaintiffs assumed, as is apparent from his interrogatories in chief,
that the witness was incompetent on the ground of his being a
party in interest and took upon himself the burden of removing the
objections. For this. purpose, he produced his discharge in bankruptcy, and on the 14thi inst., put the question to himWhether he
had any interest in the suit; and if not to tell how it had ceased.
The question suggested does not arise in the case, and therefore
it is unnecessary to examine it.
For the above reasons, we think the court below erred, and that
the judgment must be reversed, with a venire de novo.
, Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the, District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
-whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said District Court, in this cause, be and the
saine.is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the said District Court, with directions
to award. a venire faoias de novo.

HENRI; .A. H.11,

PLAINTXFF, V,~ WILLIM~ 9XITrH.

Where there are privies in a contract with the knowledge ofa debtor to secure to
his creditor the payment ofif debt, the payment of it by any one of them other
than the 4dobtoi, is a payment at his request, Lnd is an express assumpsit td reim•burse the amount.
Where the surety ofa surety pays the debt ofa principal, under a legal obligation,
from which the principal was bound to relieve him, such a payment is a sufficient consideration to raise an implied assumpsit to repay the amount, although
the pyment was made without a request from the principal.

THIs case came up on a cartificate of division from the Circuit
Codurt of the United States for the District of Maryland.
The United States of America, District of Maiyland, to wit:
At a Circuit Court of the United. States for the Fourth Circuit,
in alad for the Maryland District, begun and held at the city of Baltimbie, on the first Monday in April, in the 'year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and forty-four.
Present, the' Honorable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the
Supfeme Court of the United States ; the. Honorable Upton S.
Heath, Judge of Maryland- District; Z. Collins Lee, Esquire,
Attorney-; Thofhas B. Pottenger, Esquire, Maishall; Thomas
Spicer, Clerk...
Among other, were the following proceedings, to wit:

