THE DECISION-S
OF TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AlT

JANUARY

TERM, 1847

JiMs WooD, PLAR TIFF IN ERROR, V.'WILLLM
ASCHEL

H. - GEndw,

A.

UNDEIMILL AND

DErENDANTS.

In order to obtain a patent, the specification must- be in such fill,
clear, and exact
terms as to enable any one skilled in the art to which it appertains to compound
and use the invention, without making any experiments of his own.
If the patent be for a new composition of matter, and no relative proportions of the
ingredients are given, or they are stated so ambiguously and vaguely that no one
could use the invention without first ascertaining, by experiment, the exact proportion required to produce the result, it would be the duty of the court to declare the patent voiu. d
i
But the sufficiency of the description in patents for machines, ortor a new composition of matter, where any of the ingredients do not always possess exactly
the same properties in the same degree, is, generally, a question of fact to be
determined by the jury.
Where a patent was obtained for a new improvement in the mode of making brick,
tile, and other clay ware, and the process described in the specification was, to
mix pulverized anthracite coal with the clay lefore moulding it, in the proportion
of three fourths of a bushel of coal-dust to one thousand brick, some clay requiring o~e-eighth more, and some not exceeding half a bushel, this degree of
vagueness and uncertainty was not sufficient to justify the court below' in declaring the patent void.
The court should have let it to the jury to say, from the evidence of persons skilled
in the art, whether the description was clear and exact enough to enable such
persons to compound and use the invention.

Tis case was'brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Coftrt of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
rt appeared that, in the-year 1836, Wood took out amended
letters patent for a:nejv- and useful improvement in- the mode of
making brick, tile, and other clay ware," and filed the following
specification of his invention :- .
" Be it known that I, the said James Wood, have invented a new
and useful improvement in the art of manufacturing bricks and tiles.
The process is as follows: Take of common anthracite coal, unvOL.V.

1I

SUPREME. COURT;
Wood v. Underhill et al.

burnt, such quantity as will best suit the kind of clay to be made
into brick or tile, and mix the same, when well pulverized, with the
clay before [it] is moulded ; that clay which requires the most
burning will require the greatest proportion of coal-dust ; the exact
proportion, therefore, cannot be specified ; but, in general, three
fourths of 'a bushel of coal-dust to one thousand brick will be correct. Some clay may require one eighth more, and some not
exceeding a half-bushel. The benefits resulting from' this composition are the saving of fuel, and the more general diffusion of
heat through the kiln, by which the whole cpntents are more equally
burned. If the heat is raised too high, the brick will swell, and be
injured in their form. If the heat is too moderate, the coal-dust
will be consumed before- the desired effect is produced. Extremes
are therefore to be avoided. I claim as my invention the using of
fine, anthracite coal, or coal-dust, with- clay, for the purpose of
making brick and tile as aforesaid, and for that only claim letters
patent from the United States.
JAMES WOOD."

Dated 9th November, 1836.
in July, 1842, he brought a suit against the defendants in error,
for a violation of this patent.
And at the trial the defendant objected -to the sufficiency of the
specification, ."because no certain proportion for the mixture is
pointed out, but only that such quantity of coal must be taken as
will best suit the kind of clay to be made into brick or tile ; but
,that clay which requires most burning will require the greatest*
quantity of coal-dust ; the exact proportion cannot, therefore, be
specified ; but, in general, three fourths of a bushel of coal-dust to
one thousand brick will be correct. Some clay may require, one
eighth more, and some not exceeding half a bushel ; 'so that there
is no fixed rule by which the manufacturer can make the mixture,
but that must be ascertained by exp6riments upon the clay ; and
the claiming clause in the specification is only for the abstract
general principle-of mixing anthracite coal-dust with clay, for the
purpose of making brick, without any practical rule as to the proportions, which is too vague and uncertain to sustain a patent"
which objection was sustained by the court. The plaintiff excepted. And the verdict and judgment being against him, the case
was brought here upon this exception.
The cause was argued by 0r. Silliman, for the plaintiff in error,
and ,Mr.
Rowley, for the defendans.
,Mr. Silliman, for the plaintiff in error, made the following points:
The plaintiff insists, 1. That he has in his specification given a general rule by which

JANUARY TERM, 184j7.

3

Wood v. Underhill et al.

every kind of clay may be much better burned than by any previous
process. "And that the general proportions specified are, with-some
exceptions, the very best that can be used.
That a patent may properly be granted for a beneficial general
rule, although there might be some exceptions to it not provided for.'
2. That if it is necessary to entitle the plaintiff to -a patent for a
most beneficial invention for burning clay of the -qualities usually
found, that he should also discover the means of! burning, to best
advantage, cinys of qualities not usually found; that his patent
should not therefore be deemed void on its face, but he shou'd be
permitted to prove, by persons conversant with the business, that
they could instantly determine, on inspection of clays of uncommon
qualities, whether they required more or less than the usual burning,
and how much more or less, so as to regulate the variation of proportions in such manner as to burn to the best advantage.
3. The plaintiff should have been permitted to show, under his
specification by experts, that any kind- of clay of which bricks can
be made, hbwever varied the qualities, can be better burnt under
his general rule than by any previous process ; and if such is the
fact, the plaintiff should be entided to a patent for the discovery, if
he had given the general rule only, and had taken no notice of
those exceptions, in which some uncommon kinds of clay can be
best burned with a greater or less proportion of coal than that
specified in the general rule.
4. The judge in his decision adopts all the errors of the defendants' objection, which states that there is no 'fixed rule by
which the manufacturer. can make the mixture, hut. that must be
ascertained by experiments upon the clay. Suppose this to be so,
and that the inventor has only furnished a guide b which. such experiments can be successfully made, and that'the subject, on
account of the variable qualities of the materials, does not admit of'
greater certainty, and that by the simplest and cheapest experiments the manufacturer, in consequence of the plaintiff's invention,
will be able to burn his bricks much better in less than half the
time, and at less than half the cost of burning, by any other process,
is not the inventor entitled to a patent for an invention practically
so useful ?
The fact that not a "single brick has for some years past been
burned, except according to the plaintiff's specification, is pretty
good evidence that the manufacturers have been able to discover
something from plaintiff's specification.
5. The objection, fs adopted by the court, declares, that the
claiming clause in the specification is only for the abstract general
principle of mixing anthracite coal-dust with clay, for the purpose
of making bricks and tiles, without any practical rule as to the proportions, which is too vague and uncertain to sustain a patent. Suppose this objection true in point of fact, and' that no information had

4

SUPREME COURT.
Wood r. Underhill et al.

been intentionally suppressed, and that the qualities of clay varied so
much that the proportions most useful could only be ascertained by
an experiment on each bed of clay, it might, nevertheless, be a very
useful invention, for which the inventor should be, in some measure,
compensated by a patent. But this part of the objection is not
true in fact, for the claiming clause - is of the invention of using
fine anthracite coal, or coal-dust, with clay for the purpose of
making brick and iile "!as aforesaid." These words, 4' as aforesaid," refer to the general rule of three fourths of a bushel of coal
for a thousand bricks, with the 'exceptionsor variations previously
_expressed.
6. The judgnient should be reversed, with costs, including the
costs in the Circuit Coirt.
.Mr. Rowey, for the defendant in error.
The-patentee's specification is uncertain and insufficient. It
furnishes no rule for making bricks, without the manufacturer's first
making a series of experiments. The niost it does is to prescribe
in about wha.t manner the trials are to be conducted; which is not
enough to sustain his patent. The King v. Arkwright, Day. Pat.
Cases,'106 (per Buller, J.); Turner v. Winter, 1 Term R. 606
(per Ashurst, J.); Boulton v. Bull, 2 H. Bi. 484 (Buller, .. );
Harmer v. Playne, 1f East. 101 (Lord Ellenborough); The King
v..Wheeler, 2 Barn. & Ald. 345 (Abbott, Ch. J.); Godson on
Patents, 85 ; Lowell v. Lewis, 1 Mason's R. 182 (Story, J.);
Langdon v. De Groot, 1 Paine's R. 203 ; Phillips on'Patents,
83, 267, 268, 283, 284, 289.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented in this cas is a narrow one, and may be
disposed of in a few words.
The plaintiff clains thathe has invented a new and useful improvement in the art of manufacturing bricks and tiles; and states
his invention to consist in using fine anthracite coal, or coal-dust,
with clay, for the purpose of making brick or tile ; - and for that
only he claims a.patent. And the only question presented by the
record is, whether his description of the relative proportions of'
coal-dust ind clay, as given in his specification, is upon the fa-e of
it too vague and uncertain to support a patent.
The'degree of certainty which the law requires is set forth in
the act of Congress. The specification must be. in such full, clear,
and exact terms as to enable any one skilled in the art to which it
appertains to compound and use the invention; that is say, to
compound and use it without making any experiments of his own.
In patents for machines the sufficiency of the description must, in
general, be a question of fact to be determined by the jury. And
this must also be the case in compositions of matter, where any of

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

5

Wopd v. Uniderhill et al.

the ingredients mentioned in the specific'ation do not always possess exactly the same properties in the same degree.
But when the specification of a new composition of matter gives
only the names of the substances which are to be mixed together,
without stating any relative proportion, undoubtedly it would -be
the duty of the court to declare the patent to be void. . And the
same rule would prevail where it was apparent that the proportions
were stated ambiguously and vaguely. For in such cases it would
be evident, on the face of the specificatibn, that no-one could use
the invention without first ascertaining by experiment the exact.
proportion of the different ingredients required to produce the resuh intended to he obtained. And if the specification before us
was liable to either of these objections the patent would be void,
and the instruction given 1Vy the Circuit Court undoubtedly'right.
But we do not think this degree of vagueness and uncertainty
exists.: The patentee gives a certain proportion as a general rule ;
that is, three -fourths of a bushel of coal-dust td one thousand
bricks. " It is true he also states that clay which requires the most
burning wilt require the greatest proportion of coal-dust; and that
some-clay may require one eighth more than the proportions, given,
and some not more than half a bushel instead of three fourths.
The two last-mentioned proportions may, however, be justly considered as exceptions to the rule he has stated; and as applicable
to those cases only where the clay has some peculiarity, and differs
in quality from that ordinarily employed in making bricks. - Indeed,
in most compositions of matter, some small difference in the proportions must occasionally be required, since the ingredients proposed to be compounded must sometimes be in some degree
superior or inferior to those most commonly used. In this case,
howeve, the general rule is giveh with entire exactness in its
terms; and the notide of the variations, mentioned in the specification, would seem to be designed to guard the brick-maker against
mistakes, into which he might fall if- his *clay was more or less bard
to bum than the kind ordinarily employed in the manufacture.
It may be, indeed, that the qualities of clay generally differ so
widely that'the specification of the proportions stated in this case is
of no value; and that the improvement canno be used with advantage in any case, or with any clay, without irst ascertaining by
experiment the proportion to he employed. If that be the case,
then the invention is not patentable. Because, by the terms.of the
act of Congress, the inventor is not entitled to a patent unless his
description is so full, clear, and exact as to enable any one skilled
in the art to compound and use it. And if, from the nature and
character of the ingredients to be used, they are not susceiitible of
such exact description, the inventor is not entitled to. a patent.
But this does not appear to be the case on the face of this specification. And whether the fact is so or not is a question to be decided

6

SUPREME COURT.
Sewall v. Chamberlain.

by a jury, upon the evidence of persons skilled in the art to which
the patent appertains. The Circuit Court therefore erred in instructing the jury that the specification was too vague and uncertain to support the p.tent, - and its judgment must be reversed.
Order.
This,cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by, counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjtidged by.'this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo

STEPHEN SEWALL, APPELLANT, V. HENRY

V.

CHAMBERLAIN.

Where the prayer of v bill in equity shows that the demand of the complainant is
susceptible of definite computation, and that there can be no recovery over the
sum of two thousand dollars, the appeal to this court will be dismissed, on motion, for want ofjurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama, sitting as a court
of equity.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of
the court.
Jifr. Darganmoved to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction..
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
'This cause having been regularly docketed, the appellee now
moves the court to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that the
amount in controversy is not large enough to bring the case within
the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
We have examined the record and find it to be so. By
the averments in the complainant's bill, it seems that the subjectmatter in controversy between himself and the defendant relates to
the foreclosure of a mortgage given to the complainant by one
Stephen Chandler, upon a lot of land in the city of Mobile, to secure the payment of a promissory note made by Chandler in his favor, bearing date 6th August, 1824, for $ 485, payable on the 1st of
March thereafter, which was not paid at maturity, for the collection
of which the complainant made the defendant his attorney and
agent ; also to the purchase of the premises, under a decree for

