JANUARY TERM, 1847.

343

Scott at a]. v. Jones.

whether the Supreme Court of Ohio has erred in its construction
of them. It is the peculiar province and privilege of the State
courts to construe their own statutes ; and it is no part of the functions of this court to review their decisions, or assume jurisdicti6n
over them on the pretence that their judgments have' impaired the
obligation of contracts. The power delegated to us is for the restraint of unconstitutional legislation by the States, and not for the
correction of alleged errors committed by their judiciary.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this case must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

'from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

JoHN SCOTT AND CARL BOLAND, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN JONES,
LESSEE OF THE DETROIT YOUNG MEN'S SOCIETY, DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.

An objection to the validity of a statute, founded upon the ground that the legislature which passed it were not competent or duly organized, under acts of Congress
and the constitution, so as to pass valid statutes, is not within thd cased enumerated in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and therefore this court has
no jurisdiction over the subject.
It order to give this court jurisdiction, the statute the validity ofwhich is drawn in

question must be passed by a State, a member of the Union, and a public body
andduly
conormity"
to its
and laws.
If owin
public obedience
bodies, not
organized
orconstitution
admitted into
the Union, undertake, as
such
conduct
would
have
be reached,
either
States, to pass laws which tomight
encroach
power
on by
thethe
Union
or of
itgranted
the Unionpowers,
to put

within insurrections,
which these bodies
down
or hy are
thesituated
aidinaryand
penal
laws of the States or Territories
acting.
But their measures are not exdiminabe by this court on a writ of error. They are
not a State, and cannot pas bstatutes
cithin the meaning of the Judiciary Ant.

THIS case was brought up by a writ of.error, issued under me
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan.
It was ae ejetnoent brought in the Circuit Court for the county of

Wayne, State of Michigtau (State court), by the Detroit Young
Men's Society against the plaintiffs in error, to recover lot No. 56,
in section one, in the city of Detroit.
On-the trial of the cause, in December, 1841, the plaintiffs below
offered in evidence, -

344

SUPREME

COURT.

Scott et g1. v. Jones.

1. An act of incorporation by the legislature of the State of
Michigan, passed on the 26th of March, 1836, entitled "An act to
incorporate the members of the Detroit Young Men's Society."
To the admission of this act in evidence the defendants objected,
but the court overruled the objection, and allowed it to be read to
the jury ; whereupon the defendants excepted.
2. A deed, bearing date on the 1st of July, 1836, executed by
Solomon Sibley, judge, George Morell, and Ross Wilkins, judge,
pprporting to convey lot No. 56 to the Detroit Young Men's Socity, the plaintiffs having first proved, by the witnesses to the deed,
that, on or before that day, the said Sibley, Morell, and Wilkins
were reputed to be, and acted as, judges of the Territory of Michigan, appointed by the authority of the United States.
The act of Congress under which they acted was that of list
April, 1806, ch. 43 (2 Statutes at'Large, 398).
To the admission of this deed as evidence, the defendants objected,
upon five grounds. But the court overruled the objections, and allowed the instrument to be read to the jury ; whereupo i the defendants excepted.
The defendants then offered in evidence the following 'I. A deed from the treasurer of the county of Wayne to John
Scott, dated 10th October, 1833, conveying the title for taxes
-which deed the court refused to' permit to be read in evidence, unless it were first shown that the title had passed out of the United
States, and that the same had been regularly assessed and returned;
to' which refusal of the court the, defendants excepted.
2. A resolution of the governor and judges of the -Territory of
Michigan, dated on the 8th of September, 1806, that .the basis of
the iown should be an. equilateral triangle, having every angle bisected by a perpendicular line on the opposite side,, and then proved,
by a mathematical calculation, that lot No. 56 was the same as that
which was known as lot No. 52 prior to 27th April, 1807 ; and
then offered a resolution of the governor and judges, dated on 13th
March, 1807, conveying said lot No. .52to Elijah Brush.
To all which evidence the plaintiff objected, and the court sbs-'
tained the objection ; whereupon the defendants excepted.
The defendants then offered a witness, to prove that he bad anplied to the governor and judges for information as to what lots were
taxable, and that they had informed him that the lot in question was
taxable in 1828 ; to the admission of which evidence the plaintiff
objected, and the court sustained the objection ; whereupon the defendants excepted.
The defendants further offered parol evidence relative to the
conduct and declaratiofis of the govemor and judges, to which the
plaintiff objected, and the court sustained the objection ; whereupon
the defendants excepted.
And on the trial of said issue, it further appeared in evidence,

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

345

Scott et al. v. Jones.

from the records of the Secretary of Slate, that a legislature of the
State of Michigan, duly elected and returned, was -organized and
duly qualified, under the constitution of said State, on the third day
of November, A. D. 1835, and that Stevens T. Mason, having
been duly elected and returned, was -on the same day duly qualified,
and took upon himself the execution of the office of governor.under
the constitution of the said State of Michigan ; that the aforesaid act,
entitled " An act to incorporate the members of the Detroit Young
Men's Society," was approved by the said Stevens T. Mason on'
the 26th of March, in the year 1836, and who was at that time g9vernor, acting under the constitution of the State of Michigan ; that
John S. Homer was Secretary of the late Territor# of Michigan,
and in the month of July, 1835, acted as governor of said Territory ;
that he-was the last person who exercised the functions of territorial
governor of the Territory of Michigan ; that the last dfficial act of
said Horner, as governor of the Territory of Michigan, in the office
of the Secretary of State, js a proclamation, dated in the month of
July, in the year 1835, but by reputation it appeared, that the said
Homer purported to act'as territorial governor of Michigan until
some time in the year 1836. It further appeared, by the records
produced by the late clerk of the late Supreme Court of the Territory
of Michigan, that a session of said court purported to have been
holden by George Morell and Ross Wilkins, as territorial judges, in
the month of June, 1836, and adjourned the SOth of said month.
And it further appeared, on the trial of said issue, that Solomon
Sibley, George Morelln, and Ross Wilkins purported to act as
judges of the Territory of Michigan on the I st of July, in the year
1836. And on the trial of said issun the defendants offered a witness, who was present at the time, to prove to the jury that Solomon Sibley and Ross Wilkins, acting as judges of the Territory of
Michigan, held a session of the Supreme Court of said Territory on
the first Monday of January, in the year 1837, and of which the
clerk of said Supreme Court made no record ; to the admission of
which the plaintiff, by his attorney, objected, and the court sustained the objection, and rejected said evidence, and the defendants,
by their attorney, duly excepted thereto.
And the testimony on both sides being closed and commented
upon, and the said court being about to charge the said jury, and to
commit to them the said cause, the said defendants, by their attorney, moved the said court, and requested them to charge the said
jury, in the word9 or effect following, to wit:
First. That the act herein before mentioned, entitled, " An act
to incorporate the members of the Detroit Young Men's Society,"
was not of force, or in any wise sufficient in the law to create and
constitute of the lessors of the plaintiff a corporition or body politic, in the law, capable to take or hold said lot or premises, nor the
title thereof, nor to exercise any corporate rights or powers in virtue

340

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

or under color of said act, unless the jury should find that the State
government of the State of Michigan was, at the time of the passing
and approval of said act, established, and in full and legal force and
.operation.
Second.. That from and after the establishment and coming
into force and operation of said State government, and of the legislature thefeof, the territorial government established by the United
Statei, and previously in full force in and over the Territory of
Michigan, ceased, ind.in law and in fact became abrogated, superseded,
and annulled.
.:Third.
That from and after the coming into effect and operation
of 'said State government, the powers, duties, and office of judges of
said territory ceased, and became in like manner abrogated and
abolished, ind by consequence the said Solomon Sibley, George
Morelli and Ross Wilkins, as said supposed judges of said Territory,
were no longer, after the-said establishment and coming into operation of said government, competent in the law, as such judges of the
Territory of Michigan, by said supposed deed by them executed, to
convey any right or title in, to, or of said lot No. 56, or the premises in question, to the said lessors of the plaintiff, nor to perform
any other of the functions, nor exercise the powers, previously conferred by any act or acts of Congress upon the territorial judges of
said Territory of Michigan.
Fourth. But if the said jury should find that the said Solomon
Sibley, George Morell, and Ross Wilkins were, on the said first day
if July, in the year 1836, seierall
in the legal exercise of the
office of judge. of aid Territory of Michigan, duly appointed by -the
United States, and holding office under such appointment, and that
they severally signed and sealed said paper, writing, or deed, in the
execution of their said offices, according to the act of Congress entitledi "1An act to provide for the adjustment of titles to laud in the
town. of Detroit and Terriiory of Michigan, and for other purposes," approved April 21st, A: D. 1806, then that by consequence it followed and resulted that the said act, entitled, " An act
to incorporate the members-of the Detroit Young Men's Society,"
was without authority, and in contemplation of law did not create nor
constitute the lessors of the plaintiff on the 26th day pf March, A.
D.. 1836, nor on any other day, a corporation or body politic, and
corporation competent to purchase, acquire, or hold. thd lot in queston, or any real, estate whatever.
Fifth. - That a territorial and State government cannot coexist in
any of their respective departments ; that if the lessors of the plaintiff were wellincorpqrated, and competent, in virtue of said act of
incorporation of the: legislaturq of the State of Michigan, to take
and hold tho.lot ot Premises in question, then the territorial govern-.
ment"6f the Teiritory of Michigan wai, at the date of said paper,
writing, .or deed, under which the lessors of the plaintiff claim title,

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

347

Scott et al. -v. Jones.

abrogated and at an bnd, and the governor and judges of said Territory had no legal existence, and said deed is therefore void, and
can -convey no tide in any event ; therefore the plaintiff cannot
recover.
Sixth. That the paper, writing, or deed under which the lessors
of the plaintiff make title- to the lot or premises in question, being a
deed of bargain and sale, and not a donation, is void, and can in no
manner ba the foundation of any tide, not being executed by ibe
governor of the Territory of Michigan, as required by the act of
Congress, in virtue of which it purports to have been made and executed ; and therefore the plaintiff cannot recover. All which
charges the court refused to give to the said jury, and to which refusal the defendants, by their attorney, then duly excepted ; and, on
the contrary, the court charged the jury that the lessors of the plaintiff were well incorporated by the legislature of the State of Michigan, and by a body competent so to do, and that the aforesaid deed,
under which the lessor of the plaintiff, makes title, was well executed in the law, and by those competent in the law to convey title
to the lot or premises in question ; and that, on the 1st day of July,
1836, there was a governor and judges of the Territory of Mvichigan, competent to convey tide to the premises in question, under
the act of Congress referred to in said paper, writing, or deed ; and
that) under said act of Congress, the said paper, writing, or deed was
well and sufficiently executed without being executed by the governor of the Territory of Michigan, or being acknowledged or
proved, as required by the law of the time when the same was
made, in relation to all the conveyances affecting real estate ; to
which charges of the court the defendants excepted.
The Supreme Court of MXlichigan, in March, 1843, affirmed the
judgment of the court below (1 Dougl. Mich. R. 119), and the cause
was brought before this court by a writ of error, issued under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It wjas argued by 'Ir. Woodbridge, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by MlIr. gfoward and Mlfr. Hand (in a printed argument), for
the defendants in error.
Jlfr. Woodbridge, for the plaintiffs in error, enumerated the following causes of error in the decision of the court below, viz. :That the evidence tendered artd offered to be introduced at the
trial-of said cause bv the said plaintiffs in error, in support of the
right and title specially set up and claimed by them, under the act.
of Congress in said record mentioned, as by the said record appears, was rejected, and not permitted to be read and heard on thetrial of said cause ; whereas, by the law of the land and a just
construction of said act of Congress, the same, or some of it, ought
to have been admitted and received in evidence on said trial.

848

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. J-ones.

That the matters and things which the said plaintiffs in error
moved and prayed the court to give in charge to the jury, as the
same in.
said record are stated -and set forth, were not so giv en in
"charge to said jury ; whereas the same, or some part thereof, ought
to have been so by the court given in.charge, and the jurors who
'tried the said cause so therein instructed.
That the matters and things given in charge to the said jurors at
the trial of said cause, and as the same in said record appear, ought
not, according to the law of the land, to have been so given in
charge, nor the said jurors to have been so instructed.
That, on the face of the record and proceedings aforesaid, it
appears that the certain legislative act in said record mentioned, the
.validity whereof was drawn in question in said cause on the ground
of its repugnancy to the constitution and laws of the United States,
was decided and pronounced to be valid ; whereas, by the laws of
the land, the decision in the premises ought to have been against the
validity thereof.
This is an action of ejectment brought by defendants in error, in
the Circuit Court for the circuit of Wayne county, in the. State
of Michigan, against the plaintiffs in error, for a lot of ground in the
city of Detroit. Exceptions being taken during the trial to sundry
decisions of the court, the cause was removed on error to the Supreme Court, the highest judicial tribunal of the State. The several points made were there decided against the plaintiffs in error,
and the judgment below (in favor of defendants in error) affirmed.
That judgment of affirmance and the whole record is brought by
error to this court.
The first testimony sought to be introduced by defendants in
error (plaintiffs below) was a private act, appearing to have been
passed by the legislature of the State of Michigan, on the 26th day
of March, 1836. It purports to in eorporate the defendants in error by the name of " The Detroit Young Men's Society" ; to
vest them with the capacity to acquire and hold real estdte, to sue
and be sued, &c. The introduction of this private act was resisted,
on the ground that this pseudo legislature had no legal existence at
the time of passing the act. That at that period, and both before
and after, the territorial government established by the United States
was in full and legal force throughout the District of Michigan, and
*that Michigan did not become a ""State "-until the 27th of January, 1837, some ten months after the date of the act objected to ;
and conseituently that the act was repugnant to the sovereignty,
constitution, and laws of the United States,-and, as such, of no
force and null.
'The act was permitted to be introduced and read, and was decided by the State courts to be a good and valid act to incorporate
he defendants. To that decision due exception was taken.
Having thus, by the decision of the court, established their title

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

349

Scott et al. v. Jones.

to sue, the defendants in error next offered in evidence the paner
purporting to be a deed from the territorial judges, appointed -by
the, President and Senate of the United States, which is set out in
the record. Its admission was objected to, on the ground,'that,
upon a just constrction of the act of Congress of April 21, 1806
(which constitutes the territorial governor and judges ex officio commissioners or trustees, with power, in the manner and for the purposes it indicates, to convey thetitle of the United States to those
lots, and also to ten thousand acres of land adjacent to the city of
Detroit), the joint concurrence of the governor of the Territory in
the execution of the deed was indispensable.
Its admission was also objected to, on the ground that the lot in
question was not a part of the ten thousand acres mentioned in the
act of Congress, which alone the trustees were authorized to sell
for money ; but a lot within the limits of the town, with respect to
which the trustees could dispose of it only by a deed of confirmation to a previous proprietor, or by way of donation to some citizen
of the United Slates who had been resident in the old town at the
time of the fire, and who bad suffered by the conflagration. There
could be no pretence that defendants in error came within that description of persons.
It was objected, also, that the instrument sought to be introduced
as a deed was not executed nor authenticated according to the-provisions of the ordinance of 1787, nor according to the general law
of the .Territory. But more especially it was objected, that it-appears upon the face of it to have been executed by the United
States judges of the Territory on the first day of July, 1836, many
months after the State government was, by the same State judges,
decided to have come into full operation ; and some four months
after the defendants in error had caused themselves to be incorporated by a body which assumed to be the legislature of a sovereign
State. .Assuming that the court-would adhere to its own decision,
and that, according to that, decision, the State government had be-come fully and constitutionally established on a tay prior to the
incorporation of defendants in error, it was insisted that the territorial government must eo instanti have become abrogated ; that
the two governments could not exist together ; that if "the State
government had become established, the office of territorial judge,
as a conseauence, must have ceased ; -that whensoever their office
ceased, therr power as ex officio commissioners or trustees ceased
also with it ; and that consequently their deed was void, as being
no longer authorized by the law. These objections were all overruled. The document was received in evidence as a valid instrument to convey the land, and the decisions of the court severally
excepted to.
*The defendants in error having here rested their case, the plaintiffs in error, whose peaceable possession of the premises had been
VOL. V.

30

350

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

sufficiently established, then undertook to prove that the 'same lot
had been confirmed and conveyed by the governor and judges of the
Territory, in 1807, to ", Tod & McGill," inhabitants, merchants,
and proprietors of lots in the old town of Detroit before its destruction by fire. That, -having thus become the property of individual
proprietors, it became subject-to be assessed and taxed, and, the tax
remaining unpaid, to be gold for the payment of it. That it was so
taxed, and according to the law of the land offered at public auction ; and that plaintiffs in error became the purchasers, and received
a deed for it executed by the officer to that end appointed by the
law.
In order to establish the important fact, that the title of the lot
had passed out of the United States, plaintiffs in error offered and
moved tb introduce the journals and records of the governor and
judges as a board of commissioners or trustees (under the act' of
21st April, 1806). Which journals and records purported to show
that the " claims of Tod & McGill" had been duly " adjusted,"
and the lot in question (with others) con irmed to them as proprietors, of lots in " the old town." And, also, plaintiffs moved and
tefidered to introduce proof of the declarations of the board (the
governor and judges), formally and officially made in 1828, in answer to the official application of the assessor of taxes for that year
(made with the view of obtaining that information which was necessary to enable him to perform his duty as assessor) ; that the lot in
question had been onveyed by them, had become individual property, and was therefore liable to taxation. Plaintiffs in error also
moved and tendered to introduce the deed from the officer appointed by the law to conduct the sales of lands for unpaid taxes ; the
territorial law providing that the deed itself should be evidence of
the regularity of the ass'essment and sale (Laws of Michigan, 1827,
p. 378). All the above-mentioned evidence, as from time to time
during the tiial it was offered, was objected to by.the defendants
in error, overruled by the court, and those several decisions excepted to. Plaintiffs in errok'then moved the court to instruct the
jury on the law as is set out in the record, which motion was in
like manner overruled ; and the court then proceeded to instruct the
jury to the effect stated in the record, to which decisions and charge
plaintiflq in error excepted ; and upon these exceptions, and in this
aspect, the case comes before this court for revision and judgment.
Before commenting more specifically upon the points made in
this case, it may be proper to advert briefly to the history and gbneral character of the land-titles at Detroit, as they existed prior to
the passing of the act of 1806.
It was about the year 1720, that the French constructed a
permanent fortificatiobn at Detroit. It was made to constitute one
of a line of military posts extending from Quebec, through the
country of the lakes, to New Orleans. The population had already

JANUARY TERIL 1847.

'351

Scdtt et al. v. Jones.

become considerable,, but no.grants of land had yet been issfed
there. After it became a garrison town, other considerations prevented the issue of such grants. The general policy of the government was to retain the proprietary title to lands in the immeo.iate
vicinity of their forts. It was customary, however, for the commanding officers of the garrison to grant possessory rights to occupants of houses and lots ; subject always, in any pressing exigency,
to be revoked. " These permits ultimately came to be considered
as substitutes, practically as equivalents, for actual grants. They
were bought aid sold, and passed by descent. And the instances
were rare, if any such ever occurred, in which the occupants.were
disturbed in their possessions.
Such was the tenure by which lots, houses, and stores were
holden in Detroit, when the sovereignty of the country passed successively from the French to the British governmant, and from that
to the United States ; and it continued unchanged until the act of
April, 1806 ; upon which act both the parties rest their respective
claims of title.
From the time General Wayne (in 1796) received, possession
of the military post at Detroit, Michigan became a component part
of the old Northwest Territory-. When that Territory was dividdd
in 18061, it was made to constitute a part of the western division,.
And in January,
or Indiana. Territory (2 "Stat. at Large, 58).
1805, it was erected into a separate Territoty, and its seat of
government established at Detroit (2 Stat. at Large, 309). A fewdays before the new government provided by Congress for the Territory was to go into operation, the town was totally destroyed by
fire. This event, together with the peculiar and unsettled condition of its land-titles, led to the enactmefit of th6 act alluded to, of
April 21, 1806, ch. 43 (2 Stat. at Ldrge, -398).'
. Reversing the order in which the decisions objected to were made
in the State courti it is proposed, first, to consider the titles of the
plaintiffs in error to the lot in question, and the correctness of 'the
decision by which our proof was excluded. 2d. The validity of the
deed read in evidence by defendants in error, in support of their
claim of title, and the correctness of the decision by which it was
admitted as evidence. And, 3d. The validity of that legislative act,
in virtue of which the defendants in error claim to have been incorporated, rendered competent to sue, and to acquire and hold real
estate in their corporate capacity.
The character of the title of'plaintiffs in error has already been
alluded to. It is " set up" under the act of Congress of 1806
(2 Stat. at Large) 398). The decision of the State court, in effect,
is against it.
Having shown the identity of the lot, the plaintiffs in error ten-dered in evidence their deed for the premises, executed by the
officer appointed by the law, and in respect to which, the territorial

352

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

statute provides, that the deed itself shall nct only be evidence of
the sale, but of the regularity of the proceedings which terminated
in that sale (Terr. L. of 1827., p. 378). This testimony was rejected until plaintiffs in error should first have shown, by competent
evidence, that the title had passed out of the United States. Plaintiffs in error then offered in evidence the journals and records of
the board (the governor and judges), for the purpose of proving the
confirmation and conveyance of the premises to " Tod & McGill,"
,according to the provisions of the first section of the act of the 21st
April, 1806.
They further tendered to prove, by the oral testimony of the assesor by whom the tax (in 1828) was assessed, for the non-payment of which the lot was sold, that, in his character of assessor, he
had applied himself to the governor and judges for a designation of
the lots they had conveyed, for the purpose of enabling him to execute his sworn duties ; that the board, without qualification, declared
-to him that the lot in question, among others, had been by them so
conveyed, and that the lot was accordingly assessed for taxation.
I The whole of this testimony, being objected to by the defendants
in error, was rejected and excluded by the court. The State
court probably considered that the deed to " Tod & McGill," was
of a higher grade of testimony ; and, it is presumed, rested their
decision upon that cardinal maxim, that " the best evidence must be,
given of which the nature of the thing is capable."
But it is the reason of the rule which constitutes the rule. And
I have seen that reason nowhere better stated than by this court, in
the case of Tayloe v. Riggs, 1 Pet. 596. After stating the rule
as above, the court proceeds to say, - " That is, no evidence shall
be received which presupposes greater evidence behind in the
party's possession or power. The withholding of that better evidence, raises a presumption that, if produced, it might not operate
in his favor. For this reason, a party who is in possession of an
original paper, or who has it in his power, is not permitfed to give
a copy in evidence, or to prove its contents." 1 Pet. 596.
In England all title-deeds, upon alienation, pass into the hands
of the purchaser. This is the long established; and, it is believed,
the universal custom, especially in the non-registering counties.'
Upon descent they go also to the- heir, who'may coerce their
deliveiy if withholden. The law.presumes,:therefore, in England,
that all title-deeds are in -thehands of the proprietor ; and if a question occur as to their contents, he, being a party, must produce
them, unless he show that they are no longer in his possession or
power. In such a case the rule is legitimately applied. But it
will be perdeived, that the reason of that rule does not apply -to this
case. There may be something like privity of estate, but there is
no privity of contract, between plaintiffs in error and " Tod &
.McGiMl."
Theirestate may be our estate, but it passed from them,

JANUARY TERM

1847.

353

Scott et al. v, Jones.

in invilum, by mere operation of law; and the law cannot presume
that those gentlemen shiould voluntarily have given to us their titledeeds. The deed, then, not being presumed to be in our possession nor power, we will be permitted by the rules, as well as by
the philosophy of the law, to produce secondary evidence of the
fact, which the deeds would verify. Thus, in a suit by a widow
for .her dower, it was holden by Kent that she need not produce
the title-deeds, for the law presumes it not to be in her power..
Bancroft v. White, 1 Caines's Rep. 190. Nor in such a case is it
necessary for her to coerce their production.
5 Cowen, 299;
Adams oil Ejectment, 68, note.
But it is not admitted that the journals and records of the governor and judges, in reference to the public trust confided to them.by
the act of 1806, ch. 43, can he justly deemed as secondary evidetice
of their public acts. On the contrary, it is respectfully insisted, that
they should be deemed primary, and of the highest grade of evidence
as to those acts.
. Thus, the 6riginal book of acts of a surrogate, containing an order
or,." fiat" for administration to be granted, is evidence of the issue
of letters of administration. 8 East, 188 ; 13 East, 234-237.
So in a note (Day's edition), 238.
Books of the steward, containing brief minutes of a surrender and
admittance (of copyhold estate) are evidence to prove transfer,
without producing original conveyance, &c. 16 East, 208.
But a far more authoritative exposition of the law on this point is
to be found in 5 Wheat. 424 ; 4 Cond. R. 714. The Bardstown
trustees were appointed to lay out a town, dispose of lots, &c.
The journals of their proceedings were offered in evidence. The
court says, - " The trustees were established by the legislature for
public purposes. The bcoks of. such a body are the best evidence
of their acts, and ought to be admitted whenever those acts are to
be proved." So in 4 Pet. 342 ; 16 Pet. 55, 56. This dobtrine
seems abundantly sustained by other authorities. 3 Dane, 510;
Swift on Ev. 23 ; Esp. 423 ; Bull. N. P. 249 ; 4 Burr. 2057.
And even. as between individuals, where there is no public trust,
nor official oath, proof of an agreement to convey, united with
long possession, will authorize a jury to presume a conveyance.
7 Johns. 5.
And in this connection it may be proper to remark, that all that
it was incumbent upon plaintiffs in error to establish was the
abstract fact, that the title to the lot had passed out of the United'
States ; it .is immaterial to whom ; and no question could be made
as to the terms of the deed. By passing out of the United States
it became private property, and as such subject to tax, and to sale
if the tax was not paid.
Our whole testimony was excluded by the State court ; and that
decision, we insist, is equivalent to a decision against the title we set
30*

354

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

up under the act of Congress ; for it admits the truth not only of
what prima facie appears on the proofs like a demurrer .to evidence, but also of ll that the jury might justly infer from them.
Consequently it, is insisted, that the question upon this point is
brought clearly within the scope of the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, and therefore within the jurisdiction of this court upon error.
2d point. The defendants in error were plaintiffs in ejectment in
the State court. Did they, by legal evidence, show their right to
possession ? It is insisted that they did not ; that the'deed introduced by them was not "sanctioned by the~act of Congress, under
color of which it was obtained ; that the act of Congress was misconstrued, and the deed itself a nullity ; and that any gross misconstructioii of thb land laws of -the United States it is competent for
this court upon error to correct. It has been deemed very necessary. that a uniform construction should be put upon the revenue
laws." .1; can hardly be deemed less important, that the same uniJformityi should prevail in regard to your system of land laws.
Nothing, perhaps, more nearly affects the peace, happiness, and
prosperity'tf, any country, than that its land-titles should be placed
upon a footing of permanency, certainty, and simplicity. There is a
strong moral obligati6n resting upon Congress, and upon those who
administer the land laws, that they should cause to be preserved the
permanency and the certainty of a system which forms the basis of
the titles of the millions of people whose rights to their own domiciles
rest upon the action of this government. Besides, the public
domain, too, constitutes one bf the sources of the revenue of the
nation, and its uniform cofistruction should not be less rigorously
enforced. I have not been able to. discover that the decision in
Mathews v. Zane (4 Cranch,. 382) has been overruled or shaken.
In that case the court say, -"
'IT is supposed that its object (i. e.
of the Judicary Act) is to give a uniform construction to all the
acts of Congress," &c.
What is said in Buel v. Van Ness (8 Wheat. 319) strongly corroborates the doctrine advanced in Mqth~ws v. Zane ; and the
rinciple which forms the basis of the decision in Durousseau v.
The United States, seems fully to justify and amply to establish it.
.6 Cranch, 318.
In Willcox v. Jackson (13 Pet. 516, 517, &c., B eaubieu's
case), the defendant in error, being plaintiff in the State court, had
set up a title under the acts of Congress, and the decision was.in
favor of that title ; the law of the court authorizing the admission as
prima facie evidence of the final certificate of purchase. The
court says,, that this rule of evidence, rightly construed, is not repugnant to the laws of the United States ; but that the decision :of
the State court was founded in a manifest misconstruction of the
land laws. This court then sustained its jurisdiction upon error ;
and; although the defendant set up no tilde in himself, proceeded to

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

355

Scott et a]. v. Jones.

correct the misconstruction of the State court, and reversed its
If this case do not, in direct terms, reaffirm the
judgment.
doctrine of Mathews v. Zane, it at least strongly illustrates its correctness and wisdom. But in the case before the court, both
parties claim title under the same act; the decision must necessarily
be in favor of the one, and against the other ; and, as in the analogous cases of Ross v. Barland, 1 Pet. 655, 662, and of Pollard's
Heirs -v. Kibbe, 14 Pet. 353, the plaintiff in error, against whose
title the State court decided, having brought the case here, the
whole case may properly become the subject of cognizance ; the
more especially as it seems to be the law of this court, "that a
plaintiff in ejectment must show the right of possession to be in himself positively, and it is immaterial as to his right of recovery
whether it be out of the tenant or not, if it be not in himself." "°9
Wheat. 524. Assuming, then, that " a case consists of rights and
claims of both parties," and that the whole case is here, it is proposed next to show that the instrument in writing, purporting to be
a deed, and given in evidence against our objection, was not competent to be introduced as evidence of title.
First. Because it was not executed by the governor of the Territory.
Second. Because, on the face of it, it does not purport to convey
the lot to any of the persons provided for in the first section of the
act of 1806 ; nor to convey any of that land which the governor and
judges were authorized by the second section of the adt to sell and
convey. As to the first point : whether any power or trust can be
properly executed by a bare majority of those upon whom such
power is conferred, is sometimes a complicated question not readily
solved.
If the power relate to an individual and private act merely, all
must concur in the act, unless the instrument conferring the power
provide otherwise, as in the case of awards.
If the act to be done be a public act, and merely ministerial, a
majority, as a general rule, may be competent to perform it.
If it be a public act, but yet one requiring the exercise of discretion, deliberation, and judgment, and not merely ministerial, all
the trustees should be present, that they" may respectively interchange their views, reasons, and opinions ; and, all being present,
though a majority may decide, yet -A should join in the execution
of the act.
I do not propose to bonsume time by commenting upon the'principles and the authorities which illustrate these distinctions. Such
is supposed to be their general spirit, where no variant course is
prescribed by the law or instrument conferring the power. 4 Dane,
805, 806 ; 1 Bac. (Wilson's ed.) 319 ; 3 T. R. 40, 380 ; 8 East,
326-328 ; 2 East, 244-247 ; 1 Bos. & Pul. 229, 241, note ;
8 T. R. 454. The difference of construction put upon grants of

356

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

power in these different classes of cases can hardly be sought for
in any difference of terms, because the same terms are construed
differently, according to the character of the power. A literal interpretation of the words used would seem to require the universal
concurrence of all the trustees. In cases of public trusts, considerations having reference to public convenience probably induced a
relaxation of the more literally exact interpretation. But if, in particular cases, from any peculiarity in the terms used to c6nfer the
power, or from other considerations suggested- by the nature and
objects of the power, an intent may be inferred to require such'
unanimity, the courts would, no doubt, fall back upon the literal
construction.
The act of 1806 exhibits, it is believed, a case for the application of these remarks, and prescribes on the face of it its own rule
of construction.
The first section of that act points to three distinct objects. 1st.
The laying out of the new town. 2d. The adjustment of the claims
and pqssessory rights of resident proprietors, and the execution of
deeds to them ; and, 3d. The grant of donation lots to that class
'of resident citizens designated in the section. The proper execution of these powers -implied the necessity of vigilance and patient
examination, of discretion, and of judgment. But it held out no
temptations to avarice, nor called into action any peculiarly elevated
sense -of moral integrity ; and therefore the law says, that "the
governor and the judges, or any three of them, may execute those
trusts.1
But the trust specified in the second section is of a very different
character. That section authorizes those gentlemen to sell for
money a very valuable property, and to apply the proceeds of those
sales, in their discretion, to the purpose of constructig a court-house
and jail for the county, in the place of those which had been destroyed by the fire ; and all this without the probability of being
called to any, or to a very strict, account. The proper exercise of
such a trust implied the necessity of the firmest integrity, - of moral
attributes so pure as to elevate them above all imputation of sordid
or unworthy influences ; it implied, too, the necessity of peculiar
caution on the part of those conferring it. In the execution of it,
the presence, the deliberation, the concurrence of all were important. It will be observed, accordingly, that this power is made the
subject 3f a separate section, and of distinct provision. It will be
observed, that the qualifying expression "or any three of them,"
twice and emphatically repeated, when providing for the trusts specified in the first section, is altogether and ex industria omitted in the
second. And why is this, unless it be that Congress intended to
vary the rule, and to adopt the more rigid, literal, and:better-guarded
construction ? It is contended, then, that no act of sale - no deed
of conveyance, unless it be for some purpose provided for in the

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

357

Scott et al. v. Jones.

first section -can be of any validity, unless concurred in and executed by all the members of the board.
This view is strengthened by what has always been the practical
construction, as is contended, put upon the statute before the period
when the deed objected to was executed. Not an instance before
can, it is believed, be found, where any deed, granted in execution
of any of the powers defined in either section of the statute, ever before emanated without the signature of the' governor or of the acting
governor of the territory.
The governor and the judges were the heads, respectively, of two
great departments of the territorial government. In the conferring
upon those officers, jointly, the power of adopting laws for the territory, the ordinance of 1787 uses words of similar qualification.
That high power is granted to the governor and judges, "1or a majority of them." Butit has always been deemed indispensable, that,
in order to give validity to such laws, the governor must have concurred in their adoption; the qualification, "or a majority of them,"
having always been construed as having reference-to the judges only,
-the last antecedent. And in the grant of the powers specified in
the first section of the act of 1806, ch. 43, it seems probable that
Congress had reference to the devolution and the limitations of the
powers conferred upon the si-ne classes of officers, acting in the
same territory, as defined in the ordinance of 1787.
But however this may be, it is respectfully insisted, that the deed
objected to -being a deed of sale, and not a deed of confirmation
nor of donation - is fatally defective, being without the signature of
the governor.
But, secondly, the deed is objected to, because it does not purport to convey said lot to any of the persons provided for in the first
section of the act of April 21, 1806, ch. 43 ; nor does it purport
to sell and convey any of the land which the governor and judges
were authorized to sell and convey by the -second section of the act.
It is manifestly clear, that the defendants in error do not come
within the description of either of the classes of pers-'ns mentioned
and provided for in the first section of the act. The only power
conferred by the secbnd section is that of disposing of the'lands
comprised within the " 10,000 acres adjacent to said town," by
sale, and of applying the proceeds as in that section is provided.
Now, the lot in dispue is not a part of the 10,000, but is in nerly
the middle of the town (see map of the city of Detroit, in 5th vol.
of State Papers, p. 494), and consitutes, beyond a doubt, one of
those lots which should have been confirmed to its ancient proprietor ; and if not claimed by such propriet r, then it could only have
been conveyed as a donation lot, in conformity with the act. And
if it be said thatthes*e things do not sufficiently appear on tne fa6e
of the deed, then it may be replied, that !hat very omission constitutes a defect in the deed, which should be esteemed fatal. The

858

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

authority conferred upon the governor and judges was an authority
not coupled with an interest. Such an authority must not only be
strictly pursued, but it must appear on the very face of the transaction to have been strictly followed. Under the first section no
deed is competent, except it be a deed of confirmation or of donation. Under the second section no deed is competent, except it be
for a part or the whole of the 10,000 acres ; such deed must be
executed-by the governor and by the judges. It must, in either
case, purport to convey the right and title of the United States, and
not the title of the governor and judges ; or of the judges, as this
does. If it be for a part of the 10,000 acres, it should state that
fact., The deed is not for a defined tract, but for so much of said
lot as bad not been previously conveyed by their predecessors.
It is not acknowledged ; it is, not authenticated according to the
ordinance of 1787, nor according to the lex temporis. It bears
evident marks of imperfection, haste, and crudity. " It lacks
substance, and' wants form," and ought not to have been read in
evidence.
But, thirdly, it is most of all and signally defective, in that it
purports to convey the lot to such as are not in the law competent to
acquire, nor to hold real estate, and to such as have no title to sue.
That there must be a grantee, in order to constitute a grant, is a
proposition not likely to be contested here. " That a patent thus
made" (after the death of the supposed patentee) "1passes no title,"
says Mr. Justice Catron" (12 Peters, 298), "is true in the nature
of things ; there must be a grantee before a grant can take effect ;
and so this court held in Galt v. Galloway" (4 Peters, 345), "and
McDonald v. Smalley" (6 Peters, 261).
Was there, then, a grantee, capable of taking under the deed read
in evidence in.the State court?
In order to establish the affirmative of this proposition, the defendants in error introduced what purported to be an act of the
legislature of the State of Michigan, of the date of March 26, 1836
(Laws of/Mich. for 1836, p. 165), constituting then a body politic
and corporate, &c., as stated in the record. If defendants in error
were by that act duly incorporated by the name they assume, they
were competent to acquire real estate ; if not so incorporated, they
were incapable of receiving it, and their deed is void. If they were
thus duly incorporated, they were competent'to sue ; if 'not so incorporated, they bad no title to sue. The validity of that act was
therefore necessarily drawn into question.
To the introduction of this document, as a private legislative act,
to suffer it to be read as the law of the land, it was objected that it
was not passed by any competent authority, and that it was repugnant to the c6nstitution and laws of the United States. It was,
nevertheless, admitted to be read in evide'nce, and the defendants in
error were, by the same State court, declared to have been duly in-

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

359

Scott et al.v. Jones.

corporated, &c. ; to which decisions exceptions were taken. The
whole matter resolves itself into the single question, whether on the
26th of March, 1836, Michigan was an independent State, and an
admitted member of the Union ? If, by her own spontaneous
movement ; if, by assuming that' name and character, she were capable of constituting herself such, without any action on the part of
the national government, then she undoubtedly constituted at that
period one of these United States. But if the action of Congress
were necessary in the matter ; if it appertain to Congress ; if it'be
the exclusive prerogative of that body to admit new States into this
Union, then we have a right to insist that she did not become an
independent State, nor an admitted member of the Union, until, by
the act of Congress of the 26th January, 1837, she was formally
declared to be such. (See 5 Statutes at Large, 144.)
It cannot be necessary here to refer specifically to that clause in
the constitution which vests this power in Congress. But it is understood to be assumed, on the part of the defendants in error, that
in virtue of the stipulations contained in the fifth of the articles of
compact, set out in the ordinance of July 13, 1787 (1 Statutes at
Large, &1), Michigan became an admitted member of the Union from
the time her population amounted to 60,000, and had formed a permanent constitution and State government. The terms of the ordinadee provide, that whdn these contingencies shall have happened,
the new States there spoken of "1shall be admitted by their delegates into the Congress of the United States on an equal footing,"
&c. It will not escape notice, however, that before such admission
can be effected, other and preliminary measures.must be determined
upon by Congress.
The boundaries of three of those new States are defined, but
subject to be varied, if Congress shiould deem it expedient to constitute more than three. In the event of there being more than
three, the northern boundaries of the three are defined. But
whether north of the three,' there shall be established one jor. two
additional States, and what shall be their boundaries respectively,
are questions left open for the subsequent and future determination
of Congress. The further dction 'of Congress on those points,
therefore, seemed not only competent, but indispensable, before it
could become possible that Mic~higan should be admitted.
The leading purpose of these-" articles of compact" unquestionably was, to establish on a permanent footing over those extensive regions the great principles of freedom and well regulated
liberty. How far that purpose will have been attained, future ages
will decide. But another and a less disinterested purpose was also
had in view ; and that was, to induce the more early settlement of
the country, and of course to make it a more ample and immediate
source of revenue. To. that end, the -promises contained ia the
ordinance were holden out as inducing and stimulating motives to all
who- might be disposed to remove and buy there.

260

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

But afterwards it pleased the whole people of the United States
to abolish their government, and to abrogate the old articles of confederation. A new constitution was adopted, an entirely new form
of government was established, which took the place of the old one.
A literal conformity with the stipulations alluded to became, therefore, neither desirable nor possible. The Congress of the confederation consisted of but one chamber. The votes taken in it
were by States. , It possessed little power, except that which was
merely advisory. It was rather a hall of ambassadors, than a legislative body. Such was the body into whicb, "by its delegates," the
new State was promised admittance ; and that body has cea ed to
exist. But those who framed the new government were too wise
and too just to disregard the stipulations and engagements the old
government had entered into. They provided, therefore, for meeting those engagements, and fulfilling those stipulations, so far as that
could be properly done, consistently with the plan and with the
leading principles of the new constitution. They deemed it expedient and wise to vest in Congress exclusively the power to admit those new States into the Union, whenever, in the exercise of a
wise and just discretion, the exigency might seem to demand it ;
and they imposed upon the Congress the- moral obligation of conforming to all the bond fide engagements of the old government, so
far as it might be done consistently with the public good, and the
paramount obligations of the new constitution. To have gone further
might not have been wise. Flow far the provisions of the ordinance
of 1787 would have executed themselves, if the government of the
confederation had continued ; and, if Congress had determined the
number of the new States, and defined their boundaries, how far,
by the mere force of the stipulations in question, each new State,
as it should successively have acquired the requisite population,
would have become a member of the Union without the further
action of Congress, it is, perhaps, unnecessary to inquire. It may
be remarked, however, that to admit a State into the Union implies
the performance of some political act ; that political act could be executed by Congress only. The form of expression used implies
.that at soine future time that act shall be done ; and can any more
conclusive inference be drawn from the whole matter, than that an
imperious moral obligation is devolved upon Congress to perform
the act ? But whatever speculations may be indulged as to the
effect of the stipulation, had the government continued unchanged,
it would seem most unreasonable t3 suppose, that, under the new
constitution, it can by its own force operate as an actual admission
of the State without the further antion of Congress. That body,
with whQm the exclusive power remained, had not yet determined
whether there should be one or two States north of the southern
extremity of Lake Michigan. - It had not yet acted upon the subject
of the boundaries of such State or States, and without such previ-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

361

Scott et al. v. Joites.

ous action, how is it possible, without a gross encroachment upon
the acknowledged prerogatives of Congress to constituie, by the
gratuitous movement of the people of the Territory, such. State or
States ? Nor is it difficult to suppose that considerations other
than those already alluded to might exist, which would render it just
and expedient to suspend for a time the exercise of its power to
admit a new State, which, having its sixty thousand inhabitants,
should apply for admiaission. There may exist a difficulty with a
foreign power in relation to boundary, which prudence may require
the previous adjustment of. The constitution requires that the
representation in the House shall be in proportion to they population
of the different States, and be regulated by a uniform ratio. (The
exception to this rule having reference manifestly to two of the
original thirteen.) The ratio of representation being fixed then at a
larger nutaber than sixty thousand, how, without'violating this most
essential and vital principle, and thus doing great injustice to the'
older States, can Congress admit such new State, while its population falls short of that required to constitute one election district ?
The true principle would seem to be, that every ordinance, law,
stipulation, and contract made prior to the constitution must
thenceforward be construed and taken in subordination to it.
That constitution is the paramount law, and must prevail over
every law or contract which conflicts- with it. -By that constitution,
the power to admit ndw' States is vested exclusively in Congress.
It is altogether a political power; and for its proper exercise there
is no other guaranty than will be found in the honor, wisdom, and
moral sense of that body. That power has been exercised. By
the act above referred to, of 26th- January, 1837 (5 Statutes at
Large, 144), Congress,- by solemn declaration, announced that
Michigan was admitted as one of the sovereign and indep~endent
States of the Union. The authority for performing this political
act, - for making this legislative declaration, - is to be found in
the third section of the fourth article of the constitution. Congress
may "make all needful rules and regulations " respecting the Territories, and Congress may establish and admit into the Union "new
States " ; and having thus the power, their execution of it is beyond
the control as well of the Territories as of all other departments
of the government. The history of each of the Territories, and
long continued practical construction, sufficiently sanction this proposition.
lichigan was originally a part of the old Northwest Territory.
Without its consent, it was severed from that Territory, and made
to constitute a part of that of Indiana. (2. Statutes-at Large, 58.)
In like manner, and without being consulted, it was, in 1805, erected
into a new Territory (2 Statutes at Large, 309), and its political
organization and government totally changed ; bding thrown back
from the second to the first grade of colonial government under the
31
VOL. V.

362

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v\Jones.

ordinance of 1787. Many successive changes in its fundamentOl
law were afterwards, in a spirit of great kindness, but in the exercise of a power unqualifiedly dictatorial, made by Congress. (3
Statutes at Large, 482, 722, 769.) Nor is it known that the competency+ of such arbitrary legislation was ever questioned. Its
civil, its criminal, and its -political codes were all alike the subjects
of frequent and habitual legislation by Congress. And insomuch
as it would seem manifest that the ordinance of the confederation
of July 13, 1787, cannot have the effect, proprio. vigore, to constitute of Michigan an independent State of the Union, and as, from
the foundation of the government, Congress has habitually exercised a .sovereign control over the destinies of its Territories, upon
what basis can rest the pretension that Michigan could, of her own
free will, throw off the colonial government established for her by
Congress, erect herself into an independent and sovereign State,
and nolens volens force herself into the Union ?
The Legislative Council of Michigan, as it existed in 1834- 35,
was constituted by Congress. All the power it possessed was
derived exclusively from the grant of Congress. It was appointed
to uphold, and, within the sphere prescribed by Congress, to
administer, the colonial government Congress had established ; and
to that end the official oaths of its me'mbers were administered to
them. This same Legislative Council, under the lead of the youthful and ardent-tempered Secretary, who then, in the absence of a
commissioned governor, personated the sovereignty of the Union
in the executive branch of ou'r 'territorial government, commenced
a course of measures, with a view to subvert and abolish that very
government which they had been appointed and sworn to administer,
and on the 26th January, 1835, passed an act providing for the
election an'd assembling of delegates to form a constitution and
State government; and in the same act prescribed the boundaries
within and over which their new State should extend. How far it
consisted with good faith, with their own official power and duty,
and their oaths of office, thus to undermine the very basis of their
political power, - thus to subvert a government to which alone
they could look for whatsoever political power they possessed or
could exercise, - it would be useless, perhaps, now to inquire.
The act has subserved its purpose, and has become extinct ; and
whatsoever has followed in no wise rests on a foundation so frail.
The delegates invoked assembled in May, 1835. They devised
the form of a constitution and State government. They defined
the boundaries within which it should extend. They demanded of
Congress, in proper and set phrase, that their proceedings should
be sanctioned and confirmed ; dnd that Michigan, thus constituted,
should take her place as a recognized member of the Union. In
the mean time, and without waiting for the action of Congress in the
matter, a majority of those delegates determined to carry their new

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

363

Scott et al. v. Jones.

goverhment into immediate effect.
Elections, therefore, were
holden, thinly attended to be sure, but they were holden, and a
nominal governor and legislature were declared to be duly elected.
In the month of November, 1835, these functionaries were assembled. If Congress were to accede to the demands of the convention, it was expedient that the legislature should be ready to act ;
they therefore continued in session during the winter. In this
period of uncertainty and solicitude, they p:udently avoided definitive action in all very important matters ; but having a due regard
to the importance of an outward show of confidence in their position, they busied themselves in passing acts for laying out new
roads, organizing new townships, creating new corporations, and in
operations like- those. It was at this period that they amused
themselves by settling the details of the law to incorporate the
defendants in error, the validity of which is now brought into
question.
In the mean time, were the demands of the convention acceded
to ? Far from it ! Considering the admission of new States, and
by consequence the adjustment of their boundaries as political matters altogether referable to itself, the Congress deemed it proper to
exercise its own judgment upon them ; and having regard to its own
construction of the Constitution of the United States, and of the
obligation and meaning of the articles bf compact of 1787, rejected,
wrongfully perhaps, but rejected, the demands of the Mlichigan convention. What remained to be done ? Why, if the politicians of
Michigan bad no right to cast off the government Congress had
prescribed for them at pleasure, and erect themselves into an independent and sovereign community, nothing remained for them
but to submit, with what grace they might, to the authoritative
decision that their movements were not sanctioned, and that their
acts were without authority. To continue, in short, as they had
continued, under the territorial goverhment of the United States,
until, moved by its own sense of right, policy, and justice, Congress
should choose to admit the Territory into the Union as an independent State, with such dimensions and boundaries as it might prescribe.
The State boundaries, as the same are prescribed by the Legislative Council by its act calling the convention (of January 26,
1835), as well as those adopted by convention, comprise a strip of
country several miles in breadth, extending along the whole base of
the peninsula. It comprehends towns, villages, and cities. It
contains a country of unsurpassed beauty. It contains points
having commercial advantages unequalled, except by those of
Buffalo, by any throughout the whole region of the Northwest.
That strip of country Congress has annexed to Ohio and Indiana
respectively. On the other side, Congress has deemed it proper to
add an extensive region, having an area of land and water far

364

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. r. Jones.

Freate ,than is contained in the whofe of the peninsula ! And thus
°ch'nged in her geographical position, dimensions, and people too,
thousands of those who assisted in forming her organic law having'
been cut off on one side, and unknown numbers of such as did not
so participate added on the other, with her identity gone, but with
hername preserved, the new State is declared by Congress, on the
26th of-January, 1837, to be admitted as one of the States of the
Union. (5 Statutes at Large, 144.)
If the people of Mkichigan, through the means of its convention
and the Legislative Council accorded to them by Congress, had the
right to throw off the laws of the United States, organizing its
government at pleasure, and'erect themselves into an independent
government, then Michigan, with the dimensions her convention
prescribed for her, became aq independent State in November, 1835.
If the sovereign power of legislating for that Territory, and of
admitting it as a new State, rested alone in Congress, then Michigan, with dimensions totally variant, became an independept State
and a member of the Union on the 26th day of January, 1837, and
not before.
Will it be said that.her recognition by Congress, in 1837, as a
State, will have relation back to the period when she declared herself an independent community, and constitute of her a member of
the Union as from November 2d, 1835 ? What, then, will be the
condition of those officers who, deriving their authority directly or
indirectly from the general government, executed in the mean time
those laws which, by express enactment, or by the sanction of Congress, had become the laws of the district ? Were they all'usurpers, all trespassers ? And the judges, too, appointed by this government, -1 will all their adjudications and decrees have become Void,
and those who executed as well as those who pronounced them
become liable, both civilly and criminally, for an usurpation which
is against the peace and dignity of the new-born State ?
The right of the United States to the " Western posts" accrued
from the treaty of 17b3. They were not delivered until 1796.
Shall that delivery have relation to the period when the right acerued ? What, then, wil become of the contracts made, the rights
accrued, the descents cast, judgments rendered in the interim ?
Are all void, and those who exercised authority trespassers by
relation ?
Relation is one of those -fictitious devices in the law which never
shall be permitted to work a wrong to strangers ; 3-Caines's Rep.
261 ; 4 Johns. 230 ; and it illy accords with the nature and purposes of that device that it should be so applied. Butler & Baker's
case, 3 Co. 29. The explicit declaration of Congress can hardly
be carried back by relation.
In the case of Owings v. Speed et al., 5 Wheat. 420 ; 4 Con.
Rep. 714, it became propek to decide when the present national

JANUARY TERM,, 1847.

365

Scott et al. v. Jones.

government took the place of that of the confederation ? Tis
court on that occasion say, that " both governments could not be
understood to exist at the same time ; the new government did not
commence until the old one had expired." Referring, then, to the
action of other departments of government, - to journals, records,
Qfficial reports, and. to contemporaneous history, - the court determines that the old Congress continued until November, 1788 ;
the old government potentially until March 2, 1789 ; and that the
new government then commenced. Although it is not admitted,
especially in view of the clauses in the constitution referred to, that
any other than the legislative department of the government can
control, or in the smallest degree affect, the action of Congress in
this matter, yet it is with much satisfaction that reference is made to
the clear and admirably expressed views which were taken on this
subject by the executive department of this government ; I allude
to a communication from the State Department of the 8th of October, 1835, and to be found in House Doc. No. 7 of the First
Sess. 24th Congress, pp. 92, 93.
From the views thus presented to the court, it will have appeared
very manifestly that the validity of the act incorporating the defendants in error must necessarily have been brought into question
on the score of its repugnancy to the constitution and laws of the
United States. At the threshold of their case it was incumbent
upon them to establish their right to sue by the name they assumed.
This could be done only by showing a valid act of incorporation.
The decision of the State court was in favor of the validity of that
act, and thus the case is brought within the words, and the spirit
too,' of the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
If the legislature of a State should pass any act violating the
constitution or the laws of the United States, this court would pronounce such act to he void ; and that, in passing it, such legislature
bad transcended thdse limits, which all the States, by the constitution of the United States, had prescribed for it ; that in respect
to such excess of authority, the legislature was as no legislature,
and its proceeding co) am nonjudice. If the positions assumed in
this case be warranted by the constitution of the United States, can
the court f4,il to pronounce a similar judgment ?
Xir. Hand;
"ir the defendants in error.
That part of Jr.Hand's argunent which related to the question
of jurisdiction was as follows.
This cause comes into this court from the Supreme Court of the
State of Michigan, to which court it had been carried by a writ of
error from the Circuit Court of said State for The connty of Wayne.
It was an action of ejectment for a lot in the city of Detroit. The
defendants pleaded the general issue : verdict and judgment for the
plaintiffs, the present defendants in error.
31 *

366

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

At the trial, numerous exceptions were taken by the defendants,
and a bill containing said exceptions, duly sealed, which bill of exceptions is embodied in the record, sent up to this court. The
Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court for the county of Wayne. The defendants in error allege
and insist that there is nothing upon the record sent up whereby this
court can entertain jurisdiction in this cause ; which it is believed
can be conclusively shown. By reference to the abstract of the
cause presented by the defendants in error, and the record in this
cause, it will appear that at the trial of this cause the defendants in
error, the Detroit Young Men's Society, claimed to have been
incorporated by an act of the legislature of the State of Michigan,
approved March 26th, 1836, entitled, " An act to incorporate the
members of the Detroit Young Men's Society" (Session Laws
of Michigan, 1836, page 165). To the admission of this act in
e7idence, the plaintiffs in error (then defendants) objected, denying
the existence of the State of Michigan at the date of the law, and
thus denying the valid existence of the act of incorporation itself.
The court overruled the objection, and the party excepted. The
subject-matter of said exception does not come within the provisions
of section 25, ch. 20, of the Judiciary Act of 1789, An attempt
may be made to bring it under the second clause of said section.
Under that clause, there must be "drwn in question the validity of
a statute of, or authority exercised under, any State, on the ground
of their being reptgnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United. States." Here was produced an act of the legislature of
the State of Michigan. The defendants in the court below objected,
notthat this statute of the State of Michigan was repugnant to the
constitution, laws, or. treaties of the United States, but that it was
not a law of a State. It was the existence of the Stat6 that passed
the law which was denied, and not the authority or power of a State
to enact such a law. The objection was, that the act produced had
not the sanction or authority of a law of.a State, and not that, being
a statute of a State, it was repugnant to the laws, -&c., of the
United States. Certainly this is not within the second clause of
section 25.
Mark what is explicitly required by the clause to give the court
jurisdiction. First, there must be a statute of a State. Secondly,
the authority of such statute must be dra vn in question on the
ground that it' is reliugnant to the constitution, &c., of the United
States. To any thing but a statute of a State, or to any objection
to such statute but that of repugnancy to the constitution, &c., of
the United States the-clause does not-apply.
The act of 26th March, 1836, incorporating the Detroit Young
Men's Society, was or Was not a statute of a State. If it was not
a statute of a State, then by no possibility could the second clause
of section 25 have any bearing upon it. If it was a statute of a

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

367

Scott et al. v. Jones.

State, then Michigan at the time of its enactment was a Stte-,
and the only objection made at the trial, to wit, that Michigan was
not at the time of the enactment of said act a State, is summarily
disposed of.
Agani if said act was a statute of the State of Michigan, then at
the trial in the court below its validity was or was not questioned on
the ground of its being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States. If its validity was not questioned on that
ground, then it is not within the provisions of section 25. If its
validity was questioned on that ground, then it is within said section.
But the validity of said act was not questioned on the ground that
said statute was repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States ; therefore this court has no jurisdiction, by virtue of
the matters premised. It may be remarked, that the term repugnant is a technical term,-of a peculiar, ascertained, and known signification, which signification it bears as it occurs in section 25 of
the Judiciary Act. A statute is repugnant to the constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States, when its subject-matter,
terms, and provisions "are opposed to,, and, inconsistent with, the
subject-matter, terms, and provisions of such constitutions, treaties,
or laws, so that they cannot both stand together. Said act (sectibn
1) incorporates the defendants, " for the purpose of moral and intellectual improvement." It confers a common name, a c6mmon
seal, perpetual-succession, capacity to sue and be sued, and the
right to acquire and bold property to the'amount of $25,000.
Section fifth reserves to the legislature a right to alter, amend, or
repeal the said act, by a two-thirds vote. Such are the simple and
ordinary powers and franchises conferred by said act. The utmost
captiousness could find nothing in it in the smallest degree iepugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States.
The exception taken, -that Michigan was not a State on'the 26th
March, 1836, ergo, the said act not valid, - might peradventure
have been well taken, but could not be a ground of jurisdiction in
this court, for so far from showing a statute of o State repugnafit,
&c., it wholly denies said act to be a statute of a State. If it
were not a statute, it is not within the provisions of the twenty-fifth
section to give this court jurisdiction. If said act be a statute of
a State, then no exception was taken that it was repugnant, &c.,
and the indispensable prerequisites to jurisdiction again wholly fail.
See Weston v. City Council ofCharleston, I Peters, 463, 464 ;
Satterlee v. Matthewson, ibid. 409 ; Wilson v., Blackbird Creek'
Co., ibid. 245 ; Craig v. State of Missouri, 4 ibid. 410; Crowell
v. Randall, 10 ibid. 368; 5 Crnch, S44. It is clear, therefore,
that this is not a case where is "drawn in question'the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the ground,
of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States." And this court can entertain no juriidiction on
this ground, it not being a case contemplated by said section.

368

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

From the said case and the record it further appears, that, on the
trial of the issue in the court below, the Detroit Young Men's Society, plaintiffs in that court, claimed title to said lot as grantees
thereof from the United States, tbrough the 'governor and judges
of the Territory of Michigan, under an act of Congress, approved
April 21st, 1806, entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment
of titles of land in the town of. Detroit, Territory of Michigan,
and for other purposes" (2 Statutes at Large, 398), and produced
and proved a deed of said lot, executed by said governor and
judges, bearing date July Ist, 1836. The defendants made several objections to said deed, all of which were overruled, and
the title so claimed under the act of Congress was fully sustained
by ihe State court. Do these facts furnish ground of jurisdiction
to this court ? I think not. To give this court jurisdiction under
the first clause of section 25 of the Judiciary Act, where the validity of an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in
question, the decision of the State court must be against its validity. Here the decision of the State court was in favor of the authority exercised under the United States, so there can be no pretence of jurisdiction on that ground. Gordon v. Caldoleugh, 3
Cranch, 268. It was perfectly competent for the court below to
take cognizance of the title to said lot, there claimed by the plaintiffs bnder the United States ; its decision sustained the title claimed under the United States ; it is now res adjudicafa by a competent tribunal, and this court has no power to revise or disturb the
decision of the State tribunal upon that point.
Upon the plaintiff's case as presented in the court below, and
the questions raised thereon, nothing appears upon the record to
give this court jurisdiction,
Mr. Howard, for the defendants in error, -said that his first duty
was to disentangle the case from the matters which did not properly
belong-to it. The entire record has been brought here, just as it
was exhibited to the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, and
although all the points raised in it were very proper for the consideration of that tribunal, yet they must nearly all. be laid aside under
this writ of error. 10 Peters; 268.
The plaintiffs below offered onlytwo pieces of evidence, and
then rested their case. These two were, - 1. An act of incorporation ; 2. A deedfrom the judges of the*United States for the
lot in question.
1. The act of incorporation is the hinge upon which the whole
controversy turns. It will be considered as properly before this
court for examination, and the objections to its admission as evidence will be reserved for discussion hereafter. At present, I ai
getting rid of superfluous matter.
2. The deed from the judges was also obji.cted to in the State

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

369

Scott et al. v. Jones.

court. But that objection can find no place here. The Judiciary
Act is very explicit in conferring upon this court an appellate power
only where a State court decides against the validity of an. authority
exercised under the United States. But the authority claimed
here was, that the judges of the United States bad the legal right to
execute this deed, and the decision was in favor of its validity.
Jurisdiction over this question is therefore excluded by the terms
of the act. It is very clear that the framers of the act of 1789
thought that, as long as the Staie courts decided in favor of any
power claimed to be exercised under the United States, or against
a power claimed under a State law, there was no necessity of a
revising power in this court ; because the feelings of State pride
and State interest would not probably allow of such decisions unless they were correct. At all events, there was no danger of -an
encroachment upon the powers of the federal government by the
States as long as the State, tribunals themselves prevented it by
their decisions. All this is so clear, that it is deemed unnecessary
to consume any more time upon the question of the admission of
this deed. If the decision below was erroneous, this court has no
power to review it.
Many questions arose in'the court below upon the evidence offered by the defendants, but, with the exception of the point reviewed above, none of them can be 'considered as properly before
this court.
1. The.defendants below offered a deed from the treasurer of
Wayne county to them, which deed the court refused until it was
first shown that the lot was assessable for taxes, and that the title
had passed out of the United States. It is not perceived under
what head of jurisdiction the reviewing power over this decision
can be placed. The authority to tax and sell did rqot begin until
the title passed out of 1he United States. Consequently the decision is in favor of the exemption from taxation, and not within
the twenty-fifth section.
2. The defendants below then offered in evidence a resolution
of the governor and judges, that the basis of the town should be an
equilateral triangle, &c., &c., and then proved, by a mathematical
calculation, that lot No. 56 was the same as lot No. 52. It is evident that the point ruled by the court was, not the invalidity of the
deed from the judges, but the insuffi--- cy of the evidence to
prove the identity of the two lots. The deed conveyed lot
No. 52. But the lot in dispute was lot No. 56, and the first
step for the defendants below to take was to establish the identity
of the two lots. But the court decided, as a questioi of general
evidence, that these mathematical calculations were not sufficient to
prove it.. As a questicin of general evidence, it can, by no possibility, be before this courz.
3. The defendants further offered certain parol evidence, which
the court rejected. With this, we have nothing to do.

370

SUPREME

COURT.

Scott-et al. v. Jones.

The instructions given by the court below were four,, viz. 1. That the lessors of the plaintiff were well incorporated.
2. That the deed of the judges was well executed.
3. That on the 1st of July, 1836, there were a governor and
judges competent to convey title.
4. That the governor need not have signed the deed.
The first point is the one reserved, to which the attention of the
court will be called presently. Upon the other three, the decision
is in favor of the validity of the commission under the United
States, and affords no ground for the jurisdiction of this court.
So with the instructions asked for and refused.. Those which
are cognizable by this court are only a repetition, in different
phraseology, of the same question, viz. whether or not there was in
Michigan, at the time of passing the act of incorporation, a legislature capable of enacting valid laws.
With respect to the question of jurisdiction, it is not necessary
to say much, because my colleague has placed that point in an attitude of great strength. But the opposite counsel is endeavouring'
to maintain two .contradictory propositions, which cannot both be
correct, viz.: - That Michigan was not a State, because the territorial judges were 'found to be there in the exercise of te ritorial
authority ; and, 2d. That the judges had no right to execute the
deed, because the establishment of a State government had annulled
their authority. Both of these positions could not be sound. The
counsel must choose one of them, and maintain only that one. If,
with a view to destroy the deed, he set up a State government, be
it so. He could then no longer call into question the legality of the
charter. But if, with a view to destroy the State government, he
set up a territorial authority, be it so. He must then admit the validity of the deed. It was remarkable, too, that the learned counsel was compelled, in order to maintain his argument, to sweep
away the very ground upon which he stood in this court. He came
here to complain of the statute of a State, ir'the language of the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act; and his first blow was
against the existence of the State herself. But if Michigan was
not a State when the act was passed of which he complains, then
he destroyed his own standing here, because it was only the statute
of a State which was cognizable. And thus, the more effectively the
learned counsel sustained his position, by just so much did he make
it more apparent that this court had no jurisdiction over the case.
Passing on to another branch of the case, Mr. Howard said he
would endeavour to maintain the three following points, viz. :1. That the power to admit new States is a political power to
be exercised by Congress alone, and that all questions touching its
exercise are political questions, not confided to the- judicial power
by the constitution and laws.
2. That the admission of Michigan into the Union was a corn-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

371

Scott et al. v. Jones.

plete exercise of the political power vested in Congress. It ratified the previous proceedings of the people of Michigan, and thereby excludes all inquiry into their correctness by the judicial power.
3. If the. objection to the jurisdiction fails, then, - That the
people of Michigan had a right to proceed to establish a government whenever the contingency happened, as provided for in the
ordinance of 1787.
1st Point. The existence of two classes of questions, viz. judicial and political, has been more than once recognized by this
court, over one of which jurisdiction reaches, but over the other
it does not. The line which divides these two classes has never
been traced, but the court has wisely contented itself with deciding,
in each case, whether it lay on one side of the line or the bther.
When these decisions shall have become more numerous, it will'be
time enough to run the line throughout its whole extent, and frame
a theory. For example, this court has considered the question of
a disputed boundary, such as that of the Rio Perdido, as a political
question, into the merits of which it would not look. Perhaps it
might be laid down as one of the governing principles on this sub-.
ject, that when a question, from its nature, belongs to the consideration of either the executive or legislative branches of the government, the judicial power will abstain from exercising any jurisdiction
over it. See, on this subject, 12 Peters, 517, 657, 731, 736738 ; 5 Peters, 20.
No stronger illustration can be given of the nature of the question
now before us than to. refer to an actual occurrence in our history.
The question is, whether Michigan was a State in March, 1S36.
In the fall of 1836, she cast her vote, as a State, for President
and Vice-President of the United States. When the votes were
counted, in February, 1837, in the presence of the Senate and
House of Representatives, the late attorney-general, Mr. Grundy,
then a member of the Senate, was chairman of the joint committee,
and announced the result of the count in this manner : -- " If the
vote of Michigan be counted, Mr. Van Buren hasp' (naning the
number). "If the vote of Michigan be ndt counted, he has"
(naming that number). " But in either event he has received a
constitutional majority, and is therefore elected President of the
United States."
Now, the question which was thus left unsettled, and which would
have distracted the country if it had been necessary to settle, is the
precise question which the learned counsel now calls upon ihis
court to decide. Time has not varied it. Suppose that the vote
of Michigan had been necessary to make a majority, and this court
had then been appealed to to decide whether Michigan had a right
to vote or not. Would not the answer have been, "1Non ilostrum"
tantas componere lites " ? It is not necessary to pursue this train
of reflections any further.

372

SUPREME

COURT.

Scott er al. v. Jones.

The government which existed in Michigan during the year 1836
was recognized by the executive of the United States as existing
defacto, if not de jure. It was not denounced and treated as an
insurrectionary, disorganizing body. No proclamation was issued,
calling upon the insurgents to disperse ; no militia of the neighbouring States were called out to suppress the insurrectidn.
But,
on the contrary, Congress and the President remained tranquil spectators of what was doing. If this court follows the lead of the
executive in recognizing foreign governments de facto, why not in
this case -also ?
2d Point. It is necessary to recur to dates 1835, May 1I.
Convention met to frame a constitution.
1835, November 3. Legislature met and organized.
1836, March 26. Act of incorporation.
1836, April 1. Society went into operation.
1836, June 15. Act of Congress (5 Stat. at Large, 49)
"An act to establish the northern boundary-line of the State of
Ohio, and to provide for the admission'.of the State of Michigan
into the Union upon the conditions therein expressed."
1836, June 23. Supplementary act (5 Stat. at Large, 199).
1836, June 30. Sessibn of United States court and judges.
1836, July 1. Sibley, Morell, and Wilkins acted as judges.
1836, July 1. Deed from the judges.
1837, January 26. Michigan finally admitted (5 Stat. at Large,
144).
In these acts of Congress, and especially that of June 23; 1836,
the proceedings of the-people of Michigan are spoken of as valid.
The constitution is mentioned as one " which the people have
formed," and propositions are submitted to the "legislature of
the State of Michigan," &c., &c.
These ratifications by Congress, acting under its express power
to admit new States, preclude this court from a re.xamination of
the subject. The power in Congress is a political one, and has
been fully exercised under its -own responsibility. Will this court
ever consent to hear an argument whether Texas was constitutionally admitted or not ?
3d Point, The people of Michigan had a right to do what they
did under the ordinance of 1797. This ordinance is reprinted in
1 Stat. at Large, 51, note. The fifth article says, when there are
sixty thousand persons, it shall be admitted 'by iti delegates into
the Congress of the United States ; and shall be at liberty to form
a permanent constitution and State government.
The act of Congress of August 7, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 50),
makes this ordinance " continue to have full effect."
The-only difference between the learned counsel and us -is,'
that he thinks there must be a preliminary act of Congress, authorizing a census under federal authority, and the sitting of a conven-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

373

Scott et al. v. Jones.

tion ; whilst we contend that it is competent for the people to number themselves, and to assemble in convention, if the number shall
be fouud sufficient.
These rights under the ordinance are political vested rights,
which no authority can take away or lessen. But if, by an interpolation into the constitution, a previous act is held to be necessary
by Congress, these rights no longer depend upon the happening of
the contingency provided for, but upon, the pleasure of Congress.
Very many circumstances might arise to prevent Congress from
passing a preliminary law. Want of time, pressure of other business, party intrigue, a difference of opinion between the Houses,
and all the ills that legislation is heir to, might occur to "prevent
such an act. These dangers were not contemplated by the ordinance. The grant of power was full, direct, unequivocal, and
positive ; as much so as the right of uffrage in an individual when
he attains the necessary age. When the fact happens, the right
accrues and becomes active.
There is nothing in the nature of the power in Congress which
demands the preliminary act, for the people can just as well number themselves, and assemble spontaneously in convention. For
the rule, see 16 Peters, 622.
Again; this course of proceeding is sanctioned by long established practice since the foundation of the government.
1791, Feb. 4. Kentucky was admitted without a previous
law for a convention. k Stat. at Large, 189.
1791, Feb. 18. Vermont was admitted in the same way. 1
Stat. at Large, 191.
In this case, Vermont had been passing laws, by~her own independent authority, ever since March, 1789. Any one of these
laws might have been questioned on the same ground on which this
act of incorporati6n is now disputed. What would have been the
reply of this court ? It is furnished in 12 Peters, 724, where the
court say, speaking of Vermont, - The people assumed by their
own power the position of a State, and settled the controversy by
taking to themselves the disputed territory as the rightful sovereigns
thereof." 12 Peters, 724.
1796, June 1st. Tennessee admitted. 1 Stat. at Large, 491.
But these had no Act of Congress to authorize a convention,
and this point was distinctly brought before both Houses of Congress. The whol of the discussion is 'an interesting chapter of
American history
The committee of the Senate reported
against the admissior, on the very ground now taken by the opposite counsel, whilst the committee of the House of Representatives assumed the doctrine for which we are contending.
The result was, that the Senate yielded, and the precise question now at issue was settled by Congress, as far as the legislative branch of the government could settle it, fifty years ago.
VOL. V.
32

374

ZUPREME COURT.
Scott

ot al. v. Jones.

The legislature of Tennessee met on the 28th of March, 1796,
and sat until the last of April, in which time the whole State government was organized. The case is exactly parallel with that of
Michigan.
For the proceedings, se& Senate Journal for 1796, from April
I1th, p. 236, to June 1st, and also December 6, 1836 ; American
State Papers, Gales & Seaton, tit. .Miscellaneous, vol. 1, p. 147.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the o.pinion of the court.
I am instructed by the court to say its opinion in this case is, that
it possesses no jurisdiction over the questions submitted. No other
point is decided by us, though others of much interest are involved
in the merits respecting the due organization of States, under our
political system, and the effect which their admission into the Union
by Congress has on the validity of their previous proceedings.
Some contend, that when these matters properly arise in a cause,
they are mere political questions, - to be settled by the action of
the other departments of the government, and nof to be reexamined
here, Barclay v. Russel, 3 Ves. 429 ; The Nabob of Arcot's
case, 2 Bro. Ch. 6 ; Foster et al..v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 309 ; The
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 20 ; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 ibid. 730, 726,738 ; Garcia v. Lee, ibid. 517, 518.
And it is argued that the acknowledgment of a domestic State
is like the recognition of- the independence or existence of a foreign
State ; and the latter is well known to preclude any further inquiry
by the judicial tribunals into the fact of their due organization. See,
on this, 5 Peters, 50, 59 ; 2 Cranch, 241 ; 3 Wheat. 634 ; 4
ibid. 64.
It is further contended, that if a State be recognized or admitted
into the Union under a particular form of government or constituiion, this, of necessity, implies that such organic arrangement is to
be treated as valid from its creation, and the previous legislation
under it is to be considered as done or performed by a competent
authority.
But we do not find it a duty to decicie any of these delicate and
important questions, considering the situation of the record in this
action and the preliminary points which arise on it, and which must
first be disposed of.
This being a writ of error to a State court, sued out with a view
to reverse its decision in a casp of ejectment between these parties,
the only authority and the only ground for our interference with the
decisions of the State tribunals ,is, in substance, that they have
overruled some right or defence 'set up under an act of Congress,
or treaty, or constitution of the United States. 14 Peters, 46,
353 ; 12 Peters, 66 ; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 124.
The'principle under which the Judiciary Act of 1789 allows this
interference of ours in the relations between the two governments,

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

375

Scott et al. r. Jones.

always of so sensitive and responsible a character, is, that no government can" be efficient or just without the means of self-protection ; and hence, that those who act under it or claim rights beneath
the shield of its lawi should, within its own territory, be able to appeal to its own tribunals for relief whenever their claims under
it are decided against in the courts of the States. But prejudices
here are to be guarded against as well as there ; and hence the paramount rule of construction, in all cases of this kind, ought to be,
not to interfere at all unless the decision is shown to come clearly
within the letter and spirit of the act of Congress permitting an
appeal ; and, when interfering, not to overrule the judgment of the
State court unless clearly erroneous.
Firstly, then, is there a proper case presented here for'our interference at all ? Three instances are enumerated in the Judiciary
Act, in which a writ of error lies to a State court, e. g. (1.)
"1Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of,
or an authority exercised under, the United States, and the decisioh
is against their validity ; (2.) or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any State on the
ground of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such their validity ; (3.) or where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the decision- is against the
title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up or claimed by
.either party under iuch Iause of said constitution, .treaty, statute, or
commission." 1 Stat. at Large, 85, § 25.
A claim is made to sustain this writ and our jurisdiction under the
first specification, because an authority was set up by the original
plaintiffs, that the deed to the Young Men's Society was good under
the acts of Congress, and this was excepted to by the defendant.
But that cannot be made the subject of a writ of error, because the
State court decided in favor of its validity. Gordon v. Caldcleugh
et al., 3 Craneh, 268 ; Walker v. Taylor et al., 5 Howard, 64.
Another decision, which was made by the state court against the
right set up by the original defendant under acts of Congress in respect to his title, is attempted to be made a subject for regxamination under this writ. But it cannot he, for two reasons. One is,
it does not appear-what acts of Congress are referxed to; and the
other is the probability, on the face of the record, not that such
acts were decided against, but only that the evidence adduced in
relation to the right set up under them was overruled. Consequently, nothing remains under which to claim jurisdiction, except
the second specification in the Judiciary Act. It is contended
that the objection, which was made in this case to the validity of a
statute of the State, on the" ground that the legislature were not com-petent or duly organized, under acts of 'Congress and the constitution,

376

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

so as to pass valid statutes, and which was overruled, comes within
that specification.
The first difficulty interposed against this point is, that the plaintiffs in error do not in the record specify what parts of the constitution or act of Congress they consider to have been overruled by the
State court, nor in terms that any parts of either were so overruled.
The course pursued here is a looser mode of stating exceptions than
is customary, and could hardly be sustained if it did not appear on the
record that the competency of the legislature of.the State of Michigan to pass certain laws was in fact called directly in question, and
the validity of them contested, on the ground that, when the laws
passed, the territorial government over Michigan was still in force,
and the new State government had not been duly organized. And
it seems to have been admitted on both sides that this objection was
urged, - and it is difficult to conjecture any other ground for such
an objection to the competency and power of the 'new State government, unless founded on its non-conformity to the existing acts
of Congress as to the Territory, and the clause in the constitution
for the admission of new States. The argument was a fair one,
that, as the territorial government was still-in operation in Michigan
for some purposes, no new political organization could take place
within its limits which was capable of passing valid laws or charters
of incorporation, without '. previous sanction by Congress, under
the third article of the constitution.
There probably is enough in this record to show that such questions were raised, and that the State court decided against the validity of the objection, and under this view and the authorities of the
following cases we shall then treat this exception a, sufficiently set
out in the record. Coons et al. v. Gallager, 15 Peters, 18 ; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117 ; McBride v. Hoey, 11 Peters,
167 ; Crowell v. Randell,. 10 ibid. 368 ; M'Kinney v. Carroll,
12 Peters, 70 ; 5 ibid. 248.
But the exception, if well stated, applies to nothing except the
validity of the particular statute that incorporated the Young Men's
Society, under which Jones, the original plaintiff, claims. Nor does
it question the validity of that statute on account either of its terms
or subject-matter, but the inability or incompetency of its makers as
a political body to pass any statute whatever. Now to ascertain
whether such an objection can come within the true meaning of the
Judiciary Act, it will be necessary to look at the language as well
as obvious design of the latter in conferring this searching and overshadowing power of revision over the State tribunals. As before
suggested, it was to prevent partiality in them against the authority
and agents of the general government ; to hold the protecting supervision in respect to its own constitution, treaties, and acts of Congress, for purposes of self-preservation and self-defence, and finally
to insure uniformity in the construction and operation of them over
the whole Union.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

377

Scott et aL v. Jones.

Hence, two things must unite, in order to justify it. There must
be an act of solemnity and importance, such as a statute, and that
statute must be by a State, a member of the Union and a public
body, owing obedience and conformity to its constitution and laws.'
This seems to have been settled by this court as to the meaning of
the word " State," where empowering one to bring an action. It
must be a member of the Union. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia; 5
Peters, 18. And it is not enough for it to be an organized political
body within the limits of the Union.
In conformity with this, where it is required that a party should
be a citizen of a different "State" in order to give a Circuit Court
jurisdiction, it has been held it is not sufficient to be a citizen of the
District of Columbia (Hartshorn v. Wright et al., Peters's C. C.
64 ; Hepburn eE al. v. ElIzey, 2 Cranch, 445), or citizen of. a Territory (New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 90), but the party must
belong to a State in the Union, one of the members of the confederacy. Chief Justice Marshall, in Hepburn et al. v. Elizey.
Indeed, it has been settled also, that a law passed by Virginia,
before the government of the Union took effect, cannot be examined
and decided upon under this clause of the Judiciary Act. Owings
-v. Speed et al., 5 Wheat. 420.
The words of this clause also appear to be such, as to admit of
no other construction than that the statute is a measure by a body
confessedly a State. They are, -" where is drawn in question
the validity of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any
State," &c.
Beside this apparent recognition, that nothing is to be examined
which does not apply to what is contained in a statute, and that
passed by a State, the evil to be remedied and guarded against
was connected merely with the subject-matter of. statutes, and not
with the political competency of their makers.
The fears were, from the reasons just enumerated, that through
some inadvertence, if not design, a State might legislate against
some part of the constitution, or a treaty, or an act of Congress,
and might trench upon matters not within its province nor belonging
to its internal concerns, but belonging to Congress, and which, by
express terms or necessary implication, were forbidden to be acted.
on by the State governments.
Such being the evil or danger, it precludes the idea -that this
clause in the Judiciary Act had any reference to the fact, that public bodies which had not been duly organized, and not been admitted
into the Union, would, as States, undertake to pass laws, without
being empowered to do it, which might encroach on the Union or
its granted powers, and hence should be thus guarded against,
Such conduct by such bodies; if not situated within the territory
of the Union, would be a foreign affair, and not within the cognizance of any of the departments of this government, unless so inter82*

378

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

fering with its rights as to call for the political exercise of the executive and legislative authority over our foreign relations.
Again, such conduct by bodies situated within our limits, unless
.by States duly admitted into the Union, would have tQ be reached
either by the power- of the Union to put down insurrections, or
by the ordinary penal laws of the States or Territories within
which these bodies unlawfully organized are situated and acting.
While in that condition, their measures are not examinable at all
by a writ of erroi to this court, as not being statutes by a State,
or a member of the Union. And after such bodies are recognized
as having been duly organized, and are admitted into the Union,
if they ever be, the judicial tribunals of the general government,
which- acquiesces in the political organization that has been professing to pass statutes, and which admits it as a legal and competent State, must treat its statutes passed under that organization as
they would the statutes of any other State, within the meaning and
spirit of the Judiciary Act. And, if so, we must inquire only into
the validity of their subject-matter, and not as to the new, any more
than the old, States, ever suppose that the question of their .political competency or power to pass statutes at all was an inquiry intended to be placed under our consideration and decision by the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It follows, then, that a statute, passed by a political body before
its admission into the Union, seems either not to be one, under the
cognizance of the Union or its judicial tribunals, by means of § 25
of the Judiciary Act, unless reenacted or adopted after becoming. a State (3 Howard, 482) ; then it is treated like the statute
of any State ; or the admission of the State into the Union by
Vongress, subsequently with the constitution and political organization under which the statute was passed, must bring it under our
consideration as a statute passed by the State,- a competent State,
- leaving, as in other cases, merely its subject-matfter to be examined in order to see if it. violates or not any acts or provisions of
the general government,
-The question of their competency is not, however, thus made a
closed one, but may be discussed before the proper political tribunals.
And where, under particular laws, their competency is not conceded,
it may come under the consideration and decision of the State courts,
and probably of those of the .United States. All we decide'in this
instance is, that it is not one of the grounds for our reexamination of
decisions on it, under the Judiciary Act. And it is no more objectionable to shut out such a question from revision in that way, than
numerous others which are not included either in the words or
objects of that act. Indeed, there were, and still are, some of the
highest "motives of expediency and sound puklic policy not to
entangle this court with the reconsideration in this way of a matter
so purely political and often so full of party -agitation. It is pretty

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

379

Scott et al. v. Jones.

strong evidence that this view of the Judiciary Act, and our duties
under it, must be the correct one, when, on full examination of the
precedents, no case can be found where an objection of this character to a statute of a State has ever been sustained, or deemed even
a proper ground for exception below, and afterwards brought under
the revision of this court by a writ of error. The case of Owings
v. Speed et al., 5 Wheat. 421, before cited, comes" nearest to this.
Taking it for granted, then, we have shown that the revision in a
case like this must be of a " statute " and a statute of a ", State,"
and not of a Territory, or corporation,-tollege, or unacknowledged
political body, and considering these as concessions, or admitted
data,,before the jurisdiction arises to issue a writ of error, and look
into the subject-matter of such statute in order to ascertain whether
in its terms or operation it runs counter. to the powers of the
general government, and that it is acknowledged on both sides there
is nothing exceptionable in the subject-matter of this statute, it follows that there is nothing to revise or correct, which is within the
purview of the judicial functions of the 'general goveriiinent under
the Judiciary Act.
Let the writ of error be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice McLEAN..
I think there is jurisdiction in this case. The Detroit Young
Men's Society, in their corporate capacity, brought an action of
ejectment against Scott and Boland to recover possession of the lot
in question.
The deed under which the lessors of the 'plaintiff claimed was
dated the 1st July, 1836, and was signed by three judges of the
Territory of Michigan. In making the conveyance, the judges acted
unde; a law of Congress of the 21st April, 1806. As regards this
question, it is not important to examine the execution of this trust.
On the trial it was proved " that a legislature of the State of
Michigan, duly elected and returned, was organized and duly qualified under the constitution of the State of Michigan on the 3d
November, 1835 ; and that Stevens T. Mason, having been duly
elected and returned, was on the same day qualified as governor, &c.
That the act entitled I An act to incorporate the members of the"
Detroit Young Men's Society' was approved 26th March, 1836."
It was proved, by reputation, that John S. Homer purported to
act as territorial governor of Michigan until some time in the year'
1836, and that George Morell and Ross Wilkins actAd as judges
until June .of that year. That a session of the territorial court
was held on th first Monday of January, 1837.
The State of Michigan was admitted into the Union by the act
of the 26th January, 1837.
On the trial, the counsel moved the court to instruct the jury,
that the act " to incorporate the members of the Detroit Young

380

SUPREME COURT.
Scott et al. v. Jones.

Men's Society" was not of binding force, "unless the jury should.
find that the State government of the State of Michigan was, at the
time of the passing and approval of said act, established, and in full
and legal force and operation."
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary. Act of 1789 provides,
"that a final judgment or decree in any suit, in. the highest court
of law or equity of a State in which a decision in the suit could be
had, where is drawn in question" "the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised'under, any State, on the ground of their being
repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States,
and the decision is in favor of such their validity," may be reexamined in this court by a writ of error.
This act of incorporation was given in evidence, as a part of the
plaintiff's title; and on the validity of the act his right to a recovery
depended. The deed having been made tothe lessors of the plaintifr as corporators, they. could recover only .in that capacity. The
validity of this statute was questioned, as appears from the record,
on the ground that it was passed before the State was admitted into
the Union ; and the court held that the statute was valid. By the
constitution, Congress has power to admit into the Union "new
States." The time of*admission is a questioi of law, and not a
political. question., At the present term we have had occasion to
decide the date of the admission into the Union of the States of
Florida and Iowa.
The above facts present the very case provided by the statute
for the exercise of jurisdiction by this court. A right 'as set up
under the statute of a State, and that statute was alleged to be repugnant to the constitution and laws of the United States ; and the
decision of the State court was in favor of the validity of such
statute. No case, it would seem, could arise, more completely
within the letter and spirit of the twenty-fifth section.
It is said that the act upon its face does not purport to be repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United States. If this
be admitted, it by no means follows that the act is constitutional.
Whether constitutional or not must be determined by the effect of
the act. But in my judgment this act is repugnant to the constitution and laws of the Union.
Michigan was an organized Territory of the United States. Its
governor, judges, and all other territorial officers, were in the discharge of their various functions. The sovereignty of the Union
extended-to it. .Uuder these circumstances, the people of Michigan
assembled by delegates in conventio, and adopted a constitution,
and under it elected members of both branches of their legislature,
governor, and judges, and organized the State government. N6
serious objection need be iade, in my judgment, to the assemblage
of the-people in convention to form a constitution, although it is the
.more regular and customary. mode to proceed under the sanetion of

JANUARY TERM,, 1847.
Scott et al. v.

381

Jones..

an act of Congress. But until the-State shall be admitted into the
'Union by act of Congress, the territorial government remains unimpaired.
No act of the people of a Territory, without the sanction of
Congress, can change the territorial into a State government. The
constitution requires the assent of Congress for the admission of a
State into the Union ; and "the United States guaranty to every
State in the Union a republican form of government." Hence
the necessity, in admitting a State, for Congress to exarmne its constitution.
The act "to incorpdrate the members of the Detroit Young
Men's Society," was the exercise of sovereign power, - a power
totally repugnant to the sovereignty of the Union, in its territorial
form. Until the 26th of January,-1837, Michigan was not admitted
into the Union and -recognized as a State. Whatever effect this
admission may have, by way of relation, 6n the exercise of the political powers of the Stateprior to that time, is not nowa question.
The question of jurisdidtion relates to the time the act was passed,
and its validity.
This mct of incorporation was repugnant to ihe constitution of
the' United States, -under which .the territorial government was oganized. It was repugnant to the laws of Congress which formed
that organization. It was an exercise of sovereignty incompatible
with the sovereigntyof the Union, in all its'legal forms. And this
act was declared by the Supreme Court of Michigan to be valid.
I cannot conceive of a clearer case for jurisdiction.
In Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters, 540,'the governor, in the exercise of a supposed power in the State, directed a fugitive from
justice, claimed by the Canadian government, to be delivered up ;
and the Supreme Court of that State, having brought the accused before it by a habeas corpus, remanded him to custody. This court,
under the twenty-fifth section, took jurisdiction of the case, on the
ground, in the language of the chief justice, "that the 'exercise of
the power in question by the States is totally coIltradietory and repugnant to the power granted tothe United States." And again he
says, - "All the powers which relate to our foreign intercourse are
"If there was no prohibiconfided to the general government."
tion to the States, yet the exercise of such a power on their part is
inconsistent with the power upon the same subject conferred on the
United States."
Now, in the case of Holmes, there was no power to surrender
the fugitive in the federal government, as such power was not conferred by the laws of nations, but must be given by a treaty, or by
reciprocal legislation. Still, as the foreign intercourse was vested
in"the general government, no part of it could be exercised by the
States without conflicting with the federal power. Now the conflict of power, in the case under consideration, is clear and direct.

382

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

The two sovereignties of the State and the territorial government
cannot exist at the same time within the same limits. The territorial government exists in full vigor until it is abolished by the admission of the State. There was, then, a direct and irreconcilable
repugnance in the exercise of the sovereign power by the State, so
long as the federal authority was exercised in the Territory.
Mr. Justice WAYNE concurred, that this court had not jurisdiction in this case, but did not assent to any conclusions in the
opinion on the merits in this controversy involving the political relations of Micligan with the United States before Michigan was
admitted into the Union.
Mr. Justice NELSON concurred with the opinion of Mr.
Justice McLean.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the'State of Michigan, and was argued
by counsel. On-consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by. this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

Tm

UNITED STTS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE BANK OF THE
UNITED STATES.

In the case of The United States v. The Bank of the United States (2 Howard, 711),
the court is of opinion that the question on the structure of the bill is an open
question, and for the first time presented to this court for decision.
The statute of Maryland of 1785, in its terms, does not embrace a bill of exchange
drawn on a foreign government.
A bill of exchange in form, drawn by one 'government on another, as this was, is
not and cannot be governed by the law merchant, and thereforeis not subject to
protest and consequential damages..

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court bf the United States for the Eastern iDistrict of Pennsylvania, and Was a continuation of the same case, between the game
parties, which was reported'in 2 Howard, 711.
Being sent back to the Circuit Court, it came up for trial in- No,
vember, 1844,,when .the "ury, under the instructions of the court,
found a verdict for the defendants below, viz. the bank.
At the trial, the following bill of exceptions was filed, which
brought the case again to this court.
Bill of Exception.
Be it remembered, that tt the sessions of April, A. D. 1838,
came the United Stites of America into the Circuit Court of the

