208

SUPREME COURT.
The' United .Statqs v. Briggs.

cipal debtor for delay, or otherwise -changing the nature of the
tontract, in order to dischraige the surety, must be an agreement
having a sufficient consideration to support it and be binding upon
the parties.- There is not one of the authorities above cited which
does not more than cover the predicament presented by the case
under consideration. Those authorities furnish examples of agreements, - arrangements between creditor and debtor, - situations
from which something like hardship might possibly spring. In the
present case, there is neither contract, arrrangement, nor even'a
scintilla of right, on which either law. or equity can lay hold. The
complainant, after permitting a judgment on the note, without at-tempting a defence at law, and after execution was levied upon
the judgment, voluntarily united in withdrawing the effects of his
associate from the operation of that process, and by this very act
bound himself with the force of a second judgment for the'validity
and for the satisfaction of the demand. After this course of conduct, he addresses himself to a court of equity, praying that court to
undo all that he has voluntarily and deliberately performed, and inorder to accomplish this end, he seeks to stamp his own acts with
illegality from their very inception. For such purposes he surely
would have no standing and receive no countenance inca court of
equity, upon any of its known Trinciples: We h6ld the decrep,
therefore, of the Circuit Court, dissolving the injunction awarded
the complainant below, and dismissing his bill with costs, to be correct; and that decree is accordingly affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby-affirmed with costs.

TnE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF, v. EPmRAim BRcIGs.
When a case is brought up to tiis court on a certificate of division in opinion, the
point upon which the difference occurs must be distinctly stated.
Where there was a demurrer, upori three grounds, to an indictment, it is not
enough to certify that the court was divided in apinion whether or not the demurrer should be sustained.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Michigan, on a certificate of division in opinion.
The circumstances of the case are thus stated by the Chief Justice, as introductory to the opinion of the court.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

209

The United States v. Briggs.

This case comes before the court upon a certificate of. division
from the Circuit Court of"the United States for the District of
Michigan.
The defendant was indicted under the act of Congress of March
2, 1831, ch. 66 (4 Statutes at Large, 472), for unlawfully cutting
timber upon certain -lands of the United States, called the Wyandotte reserve. He demurred to the indictment upon the following
grounds :First. Because the offence stated and set forth in the indict-

mentia not an offence under the statute of the United States, punishable criminally by indictment.
Second. Because, under the statutes of the United States, trespass on the public lands of the United States is, in no case, an offence punishable criminally by indictment ; but is either a mdfe
trespass, punishable by action of trespass at common law, or by action of debt in the statute.
Third. For that the said indictment is in other respects informal,
insufficient, and defective.
The United States joined in demurrer ; and the record states,
that the demurrer coming on to be heard,'and, having been argued
by counsel on either side, the opinions of the court were opposed
as to the point whether said demurrer should be sustained ; .and
thereupon it was ordered that the cause be certified to this court on
the indictment, demurrer, and joinder thereto.
The cause was argued by Mr. Clifford (Attorney-General)
and Air. .Norvell, on behalf of the United States.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, after stating the case as above, proceeded to deliver-the opinion of the court.
The act of Congress of April 29, 1802, ch. S1, ยง 6, provides,
that whenever a question shall occur before a Circuit Court, upon
which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed the point on
which the disagreement shall happen, upon the request of either
party, shall be stated, and certified to this court, to be finally decided. It is this act alone that gives jurisdiction to the Supreme
Court in cases of division of opinion in the Circuit Court,. and the
jurisdiction thus given must of course be exercised in the manner
pointed out in the law. Consequently, we are not authorized to
decide in such cases, unless the particular point upon which the
judges differed is stated and certified. United States v. Bailey, 9
Pet. 272 ; Adams v. Jones, 12 Pet. 213; White v. Turk and
others, 12 Pet. 238.
Now in the case before us, the question upon which the digagreement took place is not certified. The difference of opinion is-indeed stated to havre been'on the point whether the demurrer should
be sustained. But such a question can hardly be called a point in
18*

210

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

the case, within the meaning of the act of Congress ; for it does not
show whether the difficulty arose upon the construction of the act
of Congress on which the indictment was founded, - or upon the
form of proceeding adopted to inflict the punishment,.- or upon
any supposed defect in the counts in the indictment. On the coitrary, the whole case 'is ordered to be certified upon the indictment, demurrer, and joinder, leaving, this court to look into the
record, and determine for itself whether any sufficient objection can
be made in bar of the prosecution ; and without informing us what.
questions had been raised in the Circuit Court, upon which they
differed.
Neither can this omission in the certificate be supplied by the
causes of demurrer assigned by the defendant. The judges do not
certify that they differed on the points there stated, or on either of
them, and indeed the third ground there taken is as vague and indefinite as the certificate itself, and could not therefore help it, even
if it could be invoked in its aid.
But we are bound to look to the certificate of the court alone for
tho question which occurred, and for the point on which they differed, and as -this does not appear, we have no jurisdiction in the
case, and it must be ,remanded to the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United' States for the Districi of
Michigan, and on the point and question on which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress
in such case made and providdd, and was argued by counsel ;
and it appearing to this court, upon an inspection of the said transgript, that no point in the case, within the meaning of the act of
Congress, has been certified to this cotirt, it is thereupon now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same
is hereby dismissed, and that this cause be- and the .same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law.

JOHN C. SHEPPARD AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN
WILsON.
"Where a writ of error was allowed, the citation signed, and the bond approved, by
the chief justice of the -Territorial court of Iowa, it-was a sufficient compliance
with the statutes of the United States,Under the acts of 1789 and 1792, the clerk of the Circuit Court where the judg-.
ment was rendered may issue a writ of error, and a judge of that court may sign
the citation, and approve the bond.

