192

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

before the District or Circuit Court; consequently it cannot, in the
nature of an appeal, be brought before this court. The exercise
of an original jurisdiction only could reach such a proceeding, and
this has not been given by Congress, if they have the power to
confer it.
Upon the whole, the motion for the writ of habeas corpus in this
case is overruled.
"Order.
Mr. Coxe, of counsel for the petitioner, having filed, and read"
in open court the petition of the 'aforesaid Nicholas Lucien
Metzger, and moved the court for a writ of habeas corpus, as prayed
for in the aforesaid petition, to be directed to the marshal of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, commanding,
him forthwith to produce before this honorable court the body of
the petitioner, with the cause of his detention,- on consideration
whereof, and of the argument, "of counsel thereupon'had, as well
against as in support of the said motion, and after mature deliberation thereupon had, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the prayer of the petition be denied, and that the said
motion be and the same is Jiereby ovenuled.

ALBERT G. CREATH'S ADmINISTRATOR, COIPLAINANT AND APELT.ANT,
v. WILLIAM-D. Sims.
The following principles of equity jurisprudence may be affirmed to be without
exception; namely, that whosoever would seek admission into a court of equity
must come with clean hands; that such a court will never interfere in opposition to conscience or good faith; that it will never'be called into activity to
remedy the consequences of ]aches 'or neglect, or the want of reasonable diligenv'_
'Therefore, where a com plainant prays to be relieved from the fulfilment of a conl tract, which was intbntionally made in fraud of the- law, the answer is, that
however unworthyInay have been- the conduct of his opponent, the parties are
in pari delicto.
The complainant cannot be admitted to plead his own demerits.
Nor is it any ground of interference when a complainant applies to be relieved
from the.payment of a promissory note given under the above circumstances,
upon which judgment had been recovered at law. The consideration upon
which the note was given was then open to inquiry, and it is a sufficient indul* gence to have been permitted once to set up such a defence.
The cases examined, showing how farand under what circumstances the liability
of a surety becomes fixed upon him as a principal deb.tor.
Where the plaintiff in a suit voluntaily abstains from pressing the principal debtor,
but receives no consideration for such indulgence, nor putsany limitation upon
his right to proceed upon his execution, whenever it may be his pleasure to do
so, this- conduct furnishes no reason for the exemption of the surety fr6m liability,
and especially where the surety had united with his principal in a forthcoming
bond.
The authorities upon this point examined.

THE reporter finds the following statement of the case prefixed

to the opinion. of the, court, as delivered by Mr. Justice Daniel.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

193

Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the 9th Circuit and Southern District of Mississippi. The facts of this case, so far as it is necessary to set them
forth, are as follows :- On the 25th of June, 1838, A. G. Creath,
together with William N. Pinkard (who signed himself as principal), John 1. Guion, and Samuel Mason, executed their promissory
note to the appellee, as administrator of John C. Ridley, for the
sum of $ 10,3921,, payable on the 1st day of October following,
at the branch of the Planters' Bank at Vicksburg in Mississippi.
Upon failure to pay this note, an action was instituted thereupon,
in the Circuit Court above mentioned ; a judgment was recovered
for the amount at the May term of the court, 1839 ; and upon a
fiei facias sued out upon this judgment, the marshal having returned, on the 2d of October, that he had levied upon certain slaves
enumerated in his return, the parties to the promissory note, the
defendants in the judgment, together with a certain T. L. Arnold,
on the 2d day of October, 183.9, executed to the plaintiff in the
action a forthcoming or delivery bond, which has the force of a
judgment, by virtue of which the property levied upon was released.
he condition of this forth.coming bond not having been complied
with, afierifacias was, on the 16th of December, 1839, sued out
tfereupon, and on this process the marshal, on the 24th of March,
made a return that it had been levied on several lots and parts of
lots in the town of Vicksburg, which were not sold by order of the
plaintiff's attorney. A copy of the order referred te ,bythe marshal is made a part of the record, and is in the following words :" The marshal is authorized to levy on property enough of the defendants to pay the plaintiff's execution, and return the levy to court
without selling or advertising for sale, unless other judgments
younger than this are pressed to an' amount to endanger this debt ;
if so, the property will have to be sold, March 24th, 1840." On
the 2Ist of May, 1840, a venditioni exponas was sued out, ordering
the sale of the property which had been levied..upon, and on that
process there was a return that there had been no sple for the want
of bidders. A second venditioni exponas was next sued in November, 1840, and on this the marshal returned that the property had
been-sold on the 2d of March, 1841, and the proceeds applied to
the execution. The amount made by this sale does not appear by
the return of the officer, but it is stated, in the answer of the respondent, to have been $101 only. In consequence of the insufficiency of the- sale, under the last venditioni exponas, to satisfy the
judgment, process of fieri facies, aliasfieri facias, pluriee and alias
pluries firifacias was sued out, until the autumn of the year 1842,
when the marshal, having levied upon certain real and personal estate
of the said A. G. Creath, as set forth in the return of that officer,
and in his advertisement.for the sale thereof, the complainant, on
the 25th day of November, 1842, obtained from the district judge
VOL. V.
17

194

SUPREME COURT,
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

of the Southern ]nistrict of Mississippi an injunction to stay all
proceedings upon the judgment recovered against him and others at
law. The grounds set forth in the bill, and on which relief is
prayed, are the following : - 1st. That the complainant was a mere
surety in the note on which the actionwas instituted, and that the
indulgence granted by the direction to the marshal after judgment
obtained was in fraud of defendant's rights as a surety ; was in its
operation, in fact, injurious to him, from the deterioration of the
property of Pinkard the principal during the. interval of that indulgence ; was an infraction of the undertaking of the surety, and
therefore absolved him from all responsibility. 2dly. That the instrument oni which the judgment was obtained was one of several
notes given for the purchase of a number of slaves sold by the intestate of the plaintiff to Pinkard, several of whom were unsound,
although, as the plaintiff charges, they were (as he believes) warranted to be sound and healthy. 3dly. That although the slaves
for which the notes were -given were delivered in the State of Tennessee, yet the contract for them was in fact made at Vicksburg, in
Mississippi, and was designed to be, and was in reality, a fraud
upon the constitution and laws of Misgissippi, forbidding the introduction of slaves,,as merchandise, within that State.
The respondent denies that the complainant, Creath, could properly be regarded as a surety, either in the note on which the action
at law was instituted, or .in the forthcoming bond executed posterior
to the judgment.; but insists that in both the complainant must,
with respect to the respondent, be considered as a principal, equally
with the other makers of the note, or obligors in the forthcoming
bond. But even could Creath be viewed as a -surety, it is further
insisted that he could have no just cause of complaint, because, in
the short space of five weeks, during which the execution was held
up, there could be no material depreciation in property of any intrifisic value ; and because, moreover,. the forbearance was merely
voluntary on the part of counsel of the respondent, was wholly
without consideration, and without any agreement for delay with
either of the parties, and might have been terminated at any moment, at the will of the respondent, or at the request of either of the
defendants, had this been desired-by them. -The allegations in the
bill of a warranty of the soundness of the said slaves, and 6f the
making of the contract of sale within the State of Mississippi, and
in fraud of the constitution and laws of that State, are, in. the first
instance, directly denied ; and it is next insisted by the respondent,
that these are objections which, if they ever had any validity, should
have been urged as grounds of defence to the action at law. . A
copy of the bill of sale from Ridley to Pinkard and others, conveying the slaves, is made an exhibit in the cause, and upon the face
of that instrument there is no warranty of any thing except of the
title to the property conveyed. Several depositions were taken on

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

195

Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

behalf of the complainant, and some exhibits filed by the respondent, but as these are deemed immaterial to the questions on which
the decision of this cause properly depends, they will not be made
subjects of comment. Upon a final hearing before the circuit
judge, on the 15th of May, 1844, it was' decreed, that the injunction awarded by the district judge on the 25th of October, 1842;
should be dissolved, and the bill of the complainant dismissed with
costs.
From this decree, an appeal was taken to this court.
The cause was argued by JMr. Crittenden, for the appellant, and
by Mr Coze and XMr. Chalmers, for the appellee.
• Mr. Crittendea, after stating the case, proceedea" with the argu- ment.
The question arising 'upon the case thus presented is, whether
the complainant, as the surety of Pinkard, is discharged, in equity,
from his liability as such ?
The proof in the cause leaves no room to doubt that he was a
'surety. Being such, it is contended that the successive suspensions,
of the executions of the 16th of' bcember, 1839, and of the 15th
of March, 1841, discharge the plaintiff as a surety. The former
execution was levied on the 24th of March, 1840, and the real estate levied on was not sold dntil the 2d of March, 1841, being an
inter-val of eleven months and a few days. Contemporaneously
with the date of the execution, the marshal was. directed by the
plaintiff's attorney "to return .the- !, vy to court without selling or
advertising for sale," unless od-'^r judgments were pressed to an
amount endangering the debt. The marshal returned on the execution, -" Levied thisfierifaciason lots No. 93, &c., and not sold
by order of attorney."
Another execution did not issue on the judgment until the 21st.
of May, 1840, that being the date of the venditioni exponas.
It is clear that the stay of the execution was produced by an
agreement between Pinkard, the principal, and the attorney of the
plaintiff. The answer of the defendant does not deny this. On
the contrary, it would seem to be admitted. For it says, - " This
respondent is informed, and believes, that the .only reason which
influenced the attorney of record to consent to one day's time in the
sale, and the only reason assigned to him by Pinkard when asking*
such time, was to enable Pinkard, if possible, to complete some
negotiations that he had then going on, to relieve his property,"
&c. " And this respondent believes he (the complainant) well
knew that said Pinkard and the attorneys of record in this and other
cases were trying to aid him, Pinkard, to get through his difficulties," &c.
Proof to the same point is- contained in the deposition of Pinkard.

196

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

He says,-" The stay of execution was granted at my request,
and the only consideration that I kndw for granting it. was, that the
attorney, F. Norcom, who granted it believed I would be able to
pay it in a short time, as he knew it was the first levy that had ever
been made on my.property, and that he considered it ample to pay
every dollar against me under any circumstances."
If, however, it should be supposed that the evidence does not
establish an agreement for the delay, the foregoing statement of the
witness, together With other proof to which the attention of the
court will be called, sufficiently raintains the position, that, by the
postponement ofLthe sale, the risk of the surety was materially increased, and the property levied on, which he had a right to rely on
for his indemnity, was greatly depreciated in value.
The bill charges, that "'the property on which the execution was
levied, together with other property of Pinkard's not levied on,
was, at the time of the levy, and until after the return term of-the
execution, amply sufficient to pay, not only this judgment, but all
other judgments and liens of prior date to the time when the lien of
this judgment took effect ; and had said sale been made, said judgment would have been satisfied out of the property of said Pinkard."
It also charges, ",that after the return term of the execution
by which said property was levied on, it became (as indeed all real
property had) greatly depreciated in value, in consequence of commercial embarrassments and other causes, and there being other
judgments, of youngei date, against said Pinkard, the effect of the
suspension of said sale was thought by many to give those younger
judgments the preference, - at least the doubt which this suspension created on this point caused said property, which was sufficient at the time of the levy to have twice paid the judgment, to
sell for little or nothling."
In support of these allegations of the bill, the undersigned refer
the court to the deposition of Pinkard. The deponent states, " There were two stays given on the execution by F. Norcom, attorney for Wir. D. Sims, administrator of John C. Ridley's estate,
at my request, without the knowledge or consent 6f Creath, and the
sureties in the case. The first was given in writing on the execution at the marshal's. office, in Vicksburg, on the 4th of March,
1840, erased,"-" the second was given between the 15th of
March and the first Monday of May, 1841." " I had sufficient
property dt the time the stay was given to pay five times the amount
of judgments, then against me; and I could, if the execution had
been pressei, at any time within two weeks of the time the suspension was .granted, have raised the money to pay it, as the counsel granting th6 stay was perfectly satisfied at the time."
. " The effect of the stay was to cloud the title to the property
levied on in this case, and cause doubts in the minds of the best

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

197

Creath's Administrator- v. Sims.

attorneys, whether the executions which had taken their regular
efourse had not a preference lien in every instance where they had
not been paid, which would not have been the case if the suspension
had never taken place. These doubts in the minds of purchasers
opetated seriously against the sale of the property when it was finally
offered."
Again,. the same deponent says, -If said stay had not been
granted, I would and could have paid the money rather than the
property should have been sold, but the stay operated so seriously
against me, that when the property was sold it was impossible for
me to protect it."
",At the time the sale was made, Major Milkie was anxious to
purchase the property" (one half at $ 16,000, and General Vick
was in treaty for lots 93 and 94 at $ 32,000, one half in Planters'
Bank money, the balance in good funds); " and was deterred from
doing so owing to the advice of Mr. Yerger, who gave as his opinion that he could not get a title, owing to the stay given on said
execution."
This evidence, connected with the additional statement of the
deponent, that, " at the time the stay was granted, the amount of
liens older than this judgment was comparatively small, not exceeding $20,000," shows very clearly that the interests of the complainant were materially affected by the suspension of the execution ; and that if the property had been regularly sold, it would have
brought much more than it produced on the final sale. The court
will not inquire into the degree of the injury received by the surety,
for that would lead, in the language of Lord Loughborough (Rees
v. Berrington, 2 Ves. jr. 543), "1into a vast variety of speculation, upon which no sound principle could be built." Nor will the
court, it is contended, look into the, encumbrances upon the property, alluded to in the defendant's answer, with a view of determining the liability of the surety. Pinkard's testimony is ample to
show' that at all events, if the sale had taken, place, the debt for
which the complainant was bound could have been made ; not only
was the property itself sufficient, but Pinkard asserts he would have
paid the money rather than it should have been then sold. The
complainant was entitled to the benefit of these chances. The creditor, with an execution levied, was a trustee for all the parties interested in the subject-matter concerning which such execution was
taken out. Pitman on Principal and Surety, 177 ; Mayhew v.
Crickett, 2 Swanston, 185.
. Upon the proof in the cause, therefore, it is contended, that the
complainant is released from his obligation as surety. The authorities are fully to the point.
The rule was distinctly recognized in Rees v. Berrington, 2 Ves.
jr. 540. Lord Loughborough said in that case,:--,' It is the
clearest and most evident equity, not to carry on any transaction
17*

198

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

without the privity of him (meaning the surety) who must necessarily have a concern in every tra'nsaction with the principal debtor.
You cannot keep him bound, and transact his affairs (for they are
as much his as your own), without consulting him."
"The authorities fully warrant me in this ; though I should have granted the injunction, even without that strong authority before Lord Thurlow."
" There the creditor," "thinking that by leaving the debtor at large,
and taking a judgment against him, which affected all his property,
he pursued a better mode, Using his discretion, and acting upon his
own account, he thought it better to give stay of execution than to
have confounded the affairs of the man by destroying his credit, and
holding him in prison. But he did it without consulting the surety ;
and therefore Lord Thurlow held, and very rightly, that the surety
was.discharged. The transaction in this case was much more mischievous ; after circumstances of communication, that showed great
embarrassment, great difficulty, and great distress, indulgence was
from time to time given, under circumstances apparently very hazardous, without any communication with this man who had so great
an interest."
A question, similar in principle, arose in the case of Mayhew v.
Crickett, 2 Swanston, 193, in which the Lord Chancellor said, " I always understood that, if a creditor takes out execution against
the principal debtor, and waives it, he destroys the surety, on an
obvious principle which -prevails both in courts of law and in courts
of equity," for 1 the principle is," he'observed in another place,
" that he is a trustee of his execution for all the parties interested."
In the case of Bullitt's Executors v. Winstons, 1 Munf. 269,
the Court of Appeals of Virginia had occasion -to allude to the
question now before us ; and Judge Tucker held, that a plaintiff,
by directing the sheriff to put off the sale of property taken in exe-"
cution to a day after the return day, and to suffer it to remain in
the possession of the principal, releases the sureties altogether from
that or any subsequent executions, such direction being given without their concurrence.'
The case of Jones v. Bullock, 3 Bibb, 467, is directly io the
same effect. There the party interested in an execution directed
it to be stayed after it had been levied. The codrt say, -" 1 The
execution Wihich was levied upon the property of the principal
debtors was postponed by the creditor without the privity or consent
of the corhplainints. This course of proceeding evidently tends to
their prejudice as securities ; and it is a principle -recognized by
courts of chancery, and perfectly,.consonant to the dictates of natural justice, that any arrangement between the creditor and principal
debtor, for the easement -of the latter, and to the prejudice of the
securities, will, if the securities are not privy to or approve of such
arrangement, operate in equity to release them from their responsibility."
And the court. directed a decree, making the injunction
of the surety to the judgment perpeliial.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

199

Cyeath's Administrator v. Sims.

In the Bank of Steubenville v. Carroll, 5 Ohio, 207 ; S. P.
Bank of Steubenville v. Hoge, 6 Ohio, 17, the court held, that if
the principal at the instance of the creditor confess a judgment with
a stay of execution, the sureties are discharged.
I will merely direct the attention of the court, without comment,
to the question presented by. the record as to the consideration of
the note on which the judgment was rendered.
On the whole, it is submitted that the decree of the Circuit Court
is erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
.JXr. Coxe, and .Mr. Chalmers, for the appellee.
The trrors alleged in the decree, so far as we can learn them
fron, the record, are supposed to be three,
1. That complainant Creath was exonerated from his responsibility by the postponement of the sale of Pinkard's property, Wvhich
had been levied upon under the execution issued upon the judgment
obtained upon the forthcoming bond.
2. That the" original contract for the sale of the negroes made by
.Colonel Ridley, and for part of the purchase money of which the
note in which this suit originated was given, was null and void, on the
ground of fraud in the vendor in making the sale, either because of
his false representations as to the soundness of the slaves when sold,
or because of his having made an actual warranty of such soundness,
which was broken.
3. That the original contract as aforesaid was void, because of
the violation of the provision of the constitution of Mississippi, prohibiting the importation of slaves.
The decree of the Circuit Court does not show upon its face
whether these grounds were overruled, because not supported in
point of fact, or because under the circumstances they were not
deemed to constitute a legal defence to the action. In vindicating
the correctness of this decree, the counsel for the appellee feel
themselves fully authorized to sustain it as well upon the law as the
facts. They therefore insist, that neither of these grounds of defence is established by the proof in the cause ; and, secondly, not
under circumstances which justify the interposition of a court of
equity to prevent a party who has obtained a judgment at law from
having the full benefit and effect of such judgment.
I. The alleged suspension of ihe execution which had been
levied upon the property of Pinkard.
I. It appears from the record, that Simq brought his action in
the Circuit Court at the May terrih, 1838, against sundry defendants
upon the same promissory note. The declaration in this case sets
forth a joint promise by Pinkard, as principal, Creath, Guion, and
Mason, as sureties, on the 25th June, 1838, to pay on the 1st
Octob~er, 1838, to the plaintiff, or order, the sum of $ 10,392.57,
and it avers a*joint responsibility .on all the parties defendants.

200

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

The defendants all united in the plea of the general issue, and upon
the trial the jury found a general verdict against all, upon which
judgment was entered.
Upon this judgment a writ offierifacias issued against all the
defendants jointly. Upon this writ the marsha returned a levy
upon sundry slaves, and that he had taken a forthcoming bond, with
Thomas L. Arnold as surety, which bond is set forth in the record.
This bond having been forfeited, another fieri facias issued
against all the parties, including all the defendants .in the original
suit, together with Arnold, the security, but without designating him
as such. The marshal returned, that he had levied ipon crtain real
estate, designated, " not sold by order of attorney.",' The levy does
not indicate to which of the defendants the propery levied on belonged, and the order of plaintiff's attorney, set forth m the bill, and in
the transcript of record, does not name any one of the defendants to
whom indulgence was to be granted. Whatever favor was granted
would seem to have been extended equally to all. This order, as
well as the levy, bears date 24th.March, 1840. May 21, 1840,
a venditioni exponas issued in like manner, without distinction of
parties, which was returned, - "Not sold for want of bidders." An
alias issued on the .3d Decerhber, 1841, which was returned, "Sold to S. S. Prentiss, and proceeds applied." March 15th, 1841,
a pluries issued, which was tayed as against the other defendants.
June 8, 184 1, an aliaspluries issued, to which the marshal returned
a levy on certain specified property of Pinkard. Subsequent
process was issued, bpmt the fieri facias.which was enjoined does not
appear in the record.
The only act complained of Ps ap undue act of forbearance, or
giving of time, is that of March 22d, 1840 ; quire, if not March 2.4,
1840. This, obviously was in no respect detrimental to complainant. It was an indulgence, if any, equally extended to all the
defendants ; and if any contracr of forbearance is to be inferred
from it, all were parties ; neither has cause of complaint.
. But what was then the position of the parties ? ! A judgrment at
law had been obtained against all jointly. The responsibility of
each was then fixed. The plaintiff was at perfect liberty to issue
an execution, or to withhold it, to issue against all or any, to
compel payment .of his debt from any or either.
Even if the engagement of Creath was a subsidiary one at any
time, which is denied, it had become absolute and primary by the
rendition of the first judgment against him. The right of tho plaintiff was perfected. He might now pursue his remedy against either
or all, and the 6mission to proceed against one, or even a positive
indulgence-granted to one, would in no degree impair his rights as
against any other.
But tle'strength of the appellee's case does not rest here. He
did take out execution ; he caused a levy to be made ; and com-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

201

Creath's Administrator r. Sims.

plainant again, witi his associates, enters into a new and solemn
instrument, under hand and seal, in the shape of a forthcoming bond.
This bond created a new and substantive contract ; and, being forfeited, gave rise to another judgment, comprehending all the parties
to it. Again, plaintiff had a perfect right to proceed against one or
all ; to direct the marshal to levy upon any property of any one of
the defendants. He did issue execution, a levy was made, a sale
advertised, when complainant resorted to equity, and obtained an
injunction. The first question arising in the case is, whether the
original direction given to the marshal, prior to the forthcoming
bond, to the forfeiture of that l ond, the judgment upon it, and the
issue of thefierifacias, invalidate all these subsequent proceedings,
and discharge complainant's liability.
For the app6l1ee it is contended, that no such legal or equitable
consequences result.
1. Because, by the terms of the original note, all the par'ties
were equally bound, jointly and severally. Tphere was no primary
responsibility in one, or a contingent and subordinate responsibilityi
in the other.
2. Because,. even had such been the case, by the judgment all
became principals. Even in the case of indorsers) whose contract
is confessedly conditional and contingent, such is the law. Lenox
v. Pavert, 3 Wheat. 525, is express upon this point. It was there
held, that, when judgment has been obtained against the drawer and
indorser, both become priiicipals ; and the creditor ought not to be
restrained by any fear of exonerating the indorser from countermanding the service of any execution he may have issued, and proceeding immediately, if he chooses, on the judgment against the
indorser. But it is obvious, that in this case the designation in the
original'note- of one of the parties does not have this effect. 5
Johns. Ch. R. 315. In the case of Bay v. Tallmadge, which
was, in many particulars, analogous to the present, but in which
bail, who are always especially favored, sought to be exonerated in
consequence of the postponement of proceedings against their principal, Chancellor Keiit says, " that even an express dissent by
the bail will not discharge them from their obligation to pay the
judgment against them. Their privileges as bail were lost, and
they had become fixed as principal debtors." I am not aware of
any case that has ever imposed upon the creditor the necessity of
peculiar diligence against the principal, on the ground of the still
subsisting relation of principal and surety, after judgment and execution against the bail or surety. It becomes, then, too late to
inquire into the antecedent relations of the parties. Those relations
become merged in the judgment..
The case of Rees v. Berrington, 2 Ves. jr. 5.40, is a leading
case upon this point, an.d the cases cited in the note to that case
(Phil. ed.) fully illustrate the distinctions which exist.

202

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

3. The act complained of was not one which, in any case, and
with the most rigid application of the most favorable decisions in
favor of sureties, would operate a discharge. No peculiar benefit is
granted to the so-called principal. No especial forbearance as
regards him. Tfie order is general as to all the defendants in the
execution.
Nor was there any agreemeht obligatory on the parties to grant
indulgence to the principal debtor. In Reynolds v. Ward, 5
Wend. 501, it was held that an agreement, without consideration,
by a creditor with a principal debtor, enlarging the time for the
payment of a note, does not discharge the surety.
Bank of Utica v. Ives, '17 Wend. 501. Indulgence to the
maker of a note, on receipt of security from him, does not discharge
the indorser, where there is no valid agreement extending the time
for payment.for.a definite period. Nelson, C. J., in this case, distinctly says,- " Mere indulgence at the will of the creditor, ex
tended to the debtor, in no way impairs the obligation of the surety.
If it did, it would be a most inconvenient and oppressive rule, as
then suits must immediately follow the maturity of paper. It is
well settled, there must:be a valid common law agreement to give
tinde, fqunded-of course upon a good consideration, to have this
effect.",
In M'Lemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat. 554, this court, after a
review of the authorities in the case of an indorser while holding
merely that character, held.that a mere agreement with the drawers
for delay, without any consideration for it, and without any communication with, or assent of, the indorser, is no discharge of the latter,
after he has been fixed in his responsibility by the refusal of the
drawer and due notice to himself.
If such be the law, as thus laid down by the unanimous voice of
this court, and the authority of this decision has never been questioned, afortiori the complainant in this case was not discharged
by the facts which he avers in his bill ; as between himself and the
creditor he never oqcupied the position of a surety. The designation of the relative cbaracters of the parties to the note was simply
to indicate their relative rights and obligations as among themselves,
to confer upon the sureties the wi ht of completeindeinification as
against their principal, and of contribution among themselves. The
order of the attorney to the marshal, upon which oomplainant relies,
is destitute of .everyofeature and character which has hitherto been
regarded by courts as requisite to operate the results sought to be
deduced from it.
If further answer be required upon this point, it will be found in
the-fact that the objection comes too late. If ever available, it
should have been urged before the issue of the execution upon
which the forthcoming bond was given, before judgment had upon
that bond, - the forfeiture ofwhich was a satisfaction and extinguish-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

203

Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

ment of the original judgment ; King v. Terry, 6 Howard's Miss.
Rep. 513 ; The United States Bank v. Patton, 5 How. Miss.
Rep. 200, -before the execution against which the injunction- was
prayed. With full knowl edge, complainant omitted to avail himself of a defence, which was equally effective at law as in equity,
and he is concluded. 2 Story's Eq. 179; 1 Johns. Ch.,R. 465;
9 Wheat. 552.
II. The next ground is, that Redley, Sims's intestate, perpetrated a fraud in the sale of the negroes, for whose payment this
debt was originally incurred.
The particular point of this objection is not very apparent. The.
bill says that Redley represented fraudulently, as complainant has
been informed and believes, all said slaves to be perfectly sound
and healthy, and warranted them, as he has been informed, to be
sound and healthy. Whether the sale is sought to be avoided on
account of the alleged false and fraudulent representation, or on the
ground of the breach of an express warranty of soundness, is not
made distinctly to appear.
It is manifest that the purchaser never rescinded, or sought to
rescind, the sale, on any pretence that it was vitiated by fraud ; he
holds on to the property purchased, pays through the enforcement
of the law a part of the purchase money, and now, after six years
of acquiescence, this ground is brought forward in a court of equity.
The bill of sale of the negroes contains no covenant of warranty,
and completely falsifies the pretence that one was' given ; nor was
the appropriate remedy, by action for breach of such covenant,
ever resorted $o.
2. It is wholly unsupported by any.evidence in the cause.
3. It appears by the record of,the suit, that the then defendants,
in an action at law upon one of these notes, endeavoured to avail
themselves of the same defence, but wholly failed, and a verdict
and judgment were rendered against them. See Groves v.
Slaughter, 15 Pet. 449, which has been again affirmed during the
present term.
4. In regard to this particular note, the parties when sued at law
omitted to avail themselves of this defence, and are now precluded
from making this the ground of invoking the aid of chancery. See
authorities before cited, and see the case of Green v. Robinson,
5 How. Miss. Rep. 80, on the exact point, and Cowen v. Boyce,
ibid. 769.
. III. The last objection is, that Redley made this contract in violation or evasion of the provision in the constitution of Mississippi.
. This ground of appeal to chancery comes with a bad grace from
parties who have continued to hold the property purchased for a period of six years, without their title being questioned on the ground
of an illegal importation. But this point admits of the same ansiver
which has just been given to the former point. It has been once

204

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administiator v. Sims;

tried at law. and overruled, It was not urged in this case on the
trial at law, and it is now too late-to make it a ground for equitable
relief.
In brief, the whole of these objections involve a palpable rpistake
of the grounds of equitable relief. Chancery will relieve from the
effect of a judgment at law which has been obtained by fraud ; but
it is believed no case can be' found in which, after judgment has
-been obtained at law, which judgment is unimpeachable for fraud, a
court of equity has gone behind the judgment, and looked into the
character of the contract in which that suit originated.
Upon the whole, and on every ground upon which equitable relief
is sought, it is confidently submitted that the decree of the Circuit
Court ought to be affirmed, with ten per cent. damages.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, after having read the tstatement of the
case prefixed to. this report, proceeded to deliver the opinion of the
c6urt.
In- reviewing the grounds relied on by the complainant as the
foundation of his claim to relief, the second and third, being coincident with the order and progress of the transactions between the
parties as stated in the bill, and evincing especially the circumstances
and the attitude under which this approach to a court of equity his
been made, will be first considered, and this examination will be
premised by, stating the following principles of equity jurisprudence,
which may be affirmed to be without exception ;- that whosoever
would seek admission into a court of equity must come with clean
hands that such a court will never interfere in opposition to
conscience ot good faith ; and again, and in intimate connection
with the principles just stated, that it will never be called into activity to remedy the consequences of laches or neglect, or the want
of reasonable diligence. Whenever, therefore, a competent remedy or defence shall have existed at law, the party who may have
neglected to use it will never be permitted here to supply the omission, to the encouragement of useless and expensive litigation, and
perhaps to the subversion of justice. The effect of these principles
upon the statements of the complainant is obvious upon the slightest
inspection. The complainant alleges, that the obligation to which
he had voluntarily become a party was intentionally made in fraud
of the law, and for this reason he prays to be relieved from its fulfilment. This prayer, too, is preferred to a court of conscience, to
a court which touches nothing that is impure. The condign and
appropriate answer to such a prayer from such a tribunal is this;.that, however unworthy may have been the conduct of your opponent, you are confessedly in pari delicto; you cannot be admitted
here to plead your own demerits ; precisely, therefore, in the position in which you have placed yourself, in that position we must
leave you. And so with respect to the omission by the complain-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

205

Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

ant to set up at law either the failure or the illegality of the consid.
eration for which the note was given; no reason is perceived why
such a defence should not have been made or attempted. The aqtion at law was founded upon a simple promissory'note, a parol
contract iAlegal intendment, and not upon a specialty ; the consideration was fully open to investigation, and it was surely a suflicient
indulgence to the payees of that note to have been permitted once
to set up a defence by which payment may have been resisted,
whilst the whole consideration received by them for their undertaking would have been withheld, and absolutely possessed.and enjoyed by them. But these payees of the note did not stop even
here. After the first judgment recoyered against them, and after
the levy of an execution sued out on'that judgment, they voluntarily"
go forward, the complainant, amongst thenm, execute to the respondent their forthcoming .bond, equivalent in effect to a confession of
a second judgment,-and after these repeated-and conclusive recognitions of their liability, they invoke the aid of a courf which repels
whatever is unfair, or even illiberal, to declare that these proceedings,
thus soleihnly had and evidenced of record, shall be utterly null ;
that the respondent shall be stripped of his property without the
promised equivalent, and that -property be secured, if not to the
complainant, to one with whom he was associated in effecting its re-:
linquishment by the owner.
Recurring now to the first ground for relief set up in the bill, being that on which greatest stress is laid, - viz., the suretyship of the
complainant, hnd the'wrong alleged to have been done him by a
change of his position-and responsibility, by the indulgence extended
to his codefendant Pinkard, - let- us test this giound, first, by the
proofs upon the record, and next, by trying the accuracy of the deductions attempted to be drawn from them. The promissory note,
on which the action at law was founded, is made an exhibit, and it
appears that to the name of Pinkard, the first signer of that note,
there is added the word " principal," and to the 'ame of each bf the
other makers is added the word '" surety2' .It is insisted by the respondent, that these designations upon the note had no effect upon
the obligations of these parties to hin, however it might be supposedto operate upon their relations with 6ach other ; that with respect to the respondent all the makers of the note were from the
beginning principals, but that at any rate, after their liability was
fixed by judgment upon the note; and still more after their uniting
in the forthcoming bond, in the nature of a second judgment, their
equal responsibility as principals was irrevocably settled. In connection with this view of the case it may not be irrelevant here to
remark, that by the statute of the State of Mississippi, promissory
notes, though it be not so expressed upon the face of them, are declared in.their legal effect to be joint and several. See Howard
& Hutchinson's Statutes of 'liss. 578. The proposition contended
VOL. V.

i8

206

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

for by the respondent, were it necessary.here to pass upon it, would
not be found without support from decided cases. Thus, for instance, it was ruled by Chancellor Kent in. Bay and others v. Tallmadge, 5 Johnson's Chancery Reports, 305, that where bail becolme
fixed with the payment of the debt of the defendant, their character
of bail ceases ; that after judgment and execution against bail and
sureties, there is an end of the relation of principal and surety, and
the bail cannot claim any advantage against the creditor on the
ground of want of diligence in prosecuting the principal debtor. In
Prout v. Lennox, 3 Wheat. 520, it is laid, down by Livingston,
Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, that I the indorser of
a note, who has been charged by due notice of the maker's default,
is riot entitled to the aid of a court of equity as a surety. But without pushing further an investigation which is unnecessary to the decision of the case before us, let it be conceded that the complainant was
strictly a surety in the note on which the judgment was obtained at
law; have any of his rights been- impaired, or have any new rights
grown up to him, springing from the conduct of the respondent or
his agents in reference to that judgm 'nt and the proceedings had
thereupon ? The directions given by the attorney for the plaintiff
in the judgment have been set out in extenso. These, directions
express upon their face no consideration received or promised for
the forbearance, - no limitation upon the right of the plaintiff at law
to proceed upon his execution, - no condition or stipulation of any
kind; .or is there a fittle of proof as to the 'existence of any such
consideration, limitation, or agreement, expressed or understood.
We see nothing in the case but a voluntary forbearance, which the
plaintiff was at perfect liberty to terminate at his pleasure. What
say the authorities in relation to a proceeding of this character ? In
the case of Rees v. Berrington, 2 Ves. jr., cited and pressed in the
argument, .the interposition of the chaficellor was founded up6n the
ground of an actual and stibstantlve change of the relation and
responsibility of the surety, and in such a case his lordship very
justly observed, that lie would not undertake to calculate the degree
of injury which might have flowed from it ; that if the situation had
in fact been changed, that. was sufficient to release the-sArety altogether, for it was an attempt to impose on him a responsibility he had
never assumed ; but in the case before us was there any such change
wrought by a mere voluntary forbearance, creating no obligation
anywhere, -contracting with nothing, nor with any person? A few
of the numerous cases, both at law anduin equity, which are appllz
cable to this question will be adduced.
Reynolds v. Ward, 5 Wend. 501. It was ruled, that an agreement without consideration, enlarging the time of payment, was
not a discharge of the surety to the note. So held on demurrer
to a plea by surety, averring that at the time when the note became
due the preijal was able to pay, and would have paid had not the

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

207

Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

time been extended, and that after the note fell due the principal
became insolvent. Held also, in that case, that a promise to payinterest during the time of forbearance was no consideration- for
such agreement.
Bank of Utica v. Ives, 17 Wend. 501. Indulgence to the maker
of a note, on receiving securities from him, does not discharge the
indorser, where there is no valid agreement for giving time of payment for a definite period; and per Nelson, Chief Justice, in this
case, -" 1Mere indulgence at .the will of the creditor, extended
to the debtor, in no way discharges the obligation of the surety ; if
it did, it would be a most inconvenient and oppressive rule, as then
suits must immediately follow the maturity of paper. -It is a settled
rule, that there must be a valid common law agreement to give
time, founded of course on a good consideration, Lo have this
effect."
Norris v. Crummie, 2 Randolph, 328. It is ruled, that indulgence
granted by a creditor to the principal debtor will not discharge the
sureties of such debtor, unless the creditor shall have bound himself
in law or in equity not to pursue his remedy against the principal
for a definite length of- time.
Hunter's Administrators v. Jett, 4 Randolph, 104. A surety
will not be discharged by indulgence granted by the creditor to the
principal debtor, unless such indulgence ties up the hands. of the
creditor from pursuing the debtor at law ; nor will the surety be
discharged even then, if the indulgence shall have been given with
his knowledge and assent.
McKinney's Executors v. Waller, I Leigh, 434. A mere indulgence to a principal debtor by a creditor, not binding him to suspend his proceedings for any time, though such indulgence be given
at the very time the sheriff is about to levy execution on the property of the principal, and although, in consequence of that indulgence the principal debtor has been enabled to remove his property
out of the reach of future process, was not, even in equity, a discharge of the surety.
Alcock v. Hill, 4 Leigh, 622. A creditor suspends execution on
a forthcoming bond for several years, but he does so without consideration, and he no wise binds himself to suspend execution for any
definite time ; the principal and all the sureties but one become insolvent ; and then the creditor sues out execution against the solvent surety. Held that the surety is not ehitiled to relief in
equity. The requisites in that case stated as indispensable for
absolving the surety are, first, a consideration ; second, a promise to
indulge ; third, the definite nature of such a promise ; and, fourth,
the absence of assent by the surety.
The last case which will be cited on this point is that of
M'Lemore v. PoNell et al., 12 Wheaton, 554, in which it was ruiled
by this court, that an agreement between a creditor and. the prin-.

208

SUPREME COURT.
The' United .Statqs v. Briggs.

cipal debtor for delay, or otherwise -changing the nature of the
tontract, in order to dischraige the surety, must be an agreement
having a sufficient consideration to support it and be binding upon
the parties.- There is not one of the authorities above cited which
does not more than cover the predicament presented by the case
under consideration. Those authorities furnish examples of agreements, - arrangements between creditor and debtor, - situations
from which something like hardship might possibly spring. In the
present case, there is neither contract, arrrangement, nor even'a
scintilla of right, on which either law. or equity can lay hold. The
complainant, after permitting a judgment on the note, without at-tempting a defence at law, and after execution was levied upon
the judgment, voluntarily united in withdrawing the effects of his
associate from the operation of that process, and by this very act
bound himself with the force of a second judgment for the'validity
and for the satisfaction of the demand. After this course of conduct, he addresses himself to a court of equity, praying that court to
undo all that he has voluntarily and deliberately performed, and inorder to accomplish this end, he seeks to stamp his own acts with
illegality from their very inception. For such purposes he surely
would have no standing and receive no countenance inca court of
equity, upon any of its known Trinciples: We h6ld the decrep,
therefore, of the Circuit Court, dissolving the injunction awarded
the complainant below, and dismissing his bill with costs, to be correct; and that decree is accordingly affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby-affirmed with costs.

TnE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF, v. EPmRAim BRcIGs.
When a case is brought up to tiis court on a certificate of division in opinion, the
point upon which the difference occurs must be distinctly stated.
Where there was a demurrer, upori three grounds, to an indictment, it is not
enough to certify that the court was divided in apinion whether or not the demurrer should be sustained.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Michigan, on a certificate of division in opinion.
The circumstances of the case are thus stated by the Chief Justice, as introductory to the opinion of the court.

