JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

215

Jones v. Van Zandt.

ceed to final judgment, the Supreme Court having no power to
give a judgment of ouster, in the shape in which the case came before it.
Inasmuch, therefore, as there has been no final judgment, the
writ of error from this court must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. And being dismissed on this ground, it is unnecessary to
examine the other objections which have been taken in support of
the motion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the
court here upon an inspection of said transcript that 'the judgment of the said Supreme Court is not a final one in the case, it
is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
writ of error be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

.WHARTON JONES, PLAINTIFF, V. JOHN VAN
ZANDT.
Under the fourth section of the -ct of 12th February, 1793, respecting fugitives
from justice, and persons escar,.ig from the service of their master, on a charge
for barbouring and concealing fugitives from labor, the notice need not be in
writing by the claimant or his agent, stating that such person is a fugitive from
labor under the third section of the above act, and served on the person harbouring or concealing such fugitive, to make him liable to the penalty of five hundred
dollars under the act.
Such notice, if not in writing and served as aforesaid, may be given verbally by
the claimant or his agent to the person who harbours or conceals the fugitive;
and to charge him under the statute a general notice to the public in a newspaper
is not necessary.
Clear proof of the knowledge of the defendant, by his own confession or otherwise,
that he knew the colored person was a slave and fugitive from labor, though he
may have acquired such knowledge from the slave himself, or otherwise, is sufficient to charge him with notice.
Receiving the fugitive from labor at three o'clock in the morning, at a place in
the State of Ohio about twelve miles distant from the place in Kentucky where
the fugitive was held to labor, from a certain individual, and transporting him in
a closely covered wagon twelve, or fourteen miles, so that the boy thereby escaped pursuit. and his services were thereby lost to his master, is a harbouring or
concealing of the fugitive within the statute.
A transportation unde' the above circumstances, though the boy should be recaptured by his master, is a harbouring or concealing of him within the statute.
Such a transportation, in such a wagon, whereby the services of the boy were entirbly lost to his master, is a harbouring of him within the statute.
A claim of the fugitive from the person harbouring or concealing him need not precede or accompany the notice.
Any overt act so marked in its character as to show an intention to elude the vigilance of the master or his agent, and which is calculated to attain such an object,
is a harbouring of the fugitive within the statute.
In this particularcase, the first and second'counts contain the necessary averments,
that Andrew, the colored man, escaped from tne State of Kentucky into the State
of Ohio.

216

.SUPREME "COURT.
Jones-v. Van* Zandt..

They also contain the necessary averments of notice that said Andrew was a fugitive from labor, within the description of the act of Congress.
The averments in the said counts, that the defendant harboured said Andrew, are
sufficient.
Said counts are otherwise sufficient.,
The act of Congress, approved February 12,1793, is not tepugnant to the constitution of the United States.
The said act is not repugnant to the ordinance of Congress, adopted July, 1787,
entitled, "An Ordinance for the Government of the- Territory of the United
States northwest of the River Ohio."

.THIs case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for- the District of Ohio, on a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action of debt, brought by Jones, a citizen of Ientucky, against Van Zandt, a citizen of Ohio, for a penalty of five
-hundred- dollars, under the act of Congress passed on the 12th of
February, 1793, for concealing and harbouring a fugitive slave belonging to the plaintiff. The act is found in 1 Statutes at Large,
302.
The 3d and 4th sections, which were the only ones involved in
this case, are as follows :-" § 3. Be it enacted, that when a person held to labor in any
of the United States, or in either of the Territories on the northwest or south of the river Ohio, under the lairs thereof, shall escape
into any other-of the said States or Territory, the person to whom
such labor or service may be due, his agent or attorney, is hereby
empowered to seize oi arrest such fugitive from labor, and to take
him or her before any judge of the Circuit or District Courts of the
United States, residing or being within the State, or before any
magistrate of a county, city, or town corpdrate, wherein such arrest
or.seizure shall be made ; and,- upon proof to the satisfaction of such
judge or magistrate, either by oral testimony or iffidavit taken 'before
and certified by a magistrate of any such State or Territory, that
the person so seized or arrested doth, under the laws of the State
or Territory from which he or she fled, owe service or labor to the
person claiming him or her, it shall be the duty of such judge or
magistrate to give a certificate thereof to such claimant, his agent or
attorney, which shall be a sufficient warrant for removing the said
fugitive from labor to the State or Territory from which he or she
fled.
"§ 4. That any person who shall knowingly and villingly obstruct or hinder such claimant, his agent or attorney, in so seizing
or arresting such fugitive from labor, or shall rescue such fugitive
from such claimant, his agent or attorney, wh'en so arrested, pursuant to the authority herein given or declared, or shall harbour
or conceal such person, after notice that he or she was a fugitive from labor as aforesaid, shall, fpr either of the said offences,
forfeit and-pay, the sum of five hundred dollars -;which penalty may
be recovered by and for the benefit of such claimant, by action of

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

21'7

Jones v. Van Zandt.

debt, in any-court proper to try. the same ; saving, moreover, to
the person claiming such labor or service his right of action for or
on account of the said injuries, or either of them."
The suit was brought in the Circuit Court of Ohio, in June,
1842. The declaration consisted of four counts, the two last of
which were abandoned in the progress of the cause. -As the remaining two - viz, the first and the second - are commented upon
by the court, it is deemed- proper to insert them. They are as
follows
"First Count. - Concealing.
"Wharton Jonds, a citizen of, and resident in Kentucky, by
Charles Fox, his attorney, complains of John Van Zandt, a citizen
of, and resident in Ohio, was summoned to answer unto the plaintiff in a plea of debt ; for that, whereas, a certain person, to wit,
Andrew, aged about thirty years, Letta, aged about thirty years,. on
the 23d day of May, in the year eighteen hundred and forty-two,
at Boone county, in the State of Kentucky, was the slave of, and
in possession of the plaintiff, and his property, and owed service
and was held to labor to the plaintiff by the laws of Kentucky, unlawfully, wrongfully, and unjustly, without thq license or consent.
and against the will of the plaintiff, departed and -went away from,
and out of the service of the plaintiff, at said Boone county, and
came to the defendant at Hamilton county, in the State and district
of Ohio, and was there a fugitive from labor ; and the defendant,
well knowing that said Andrew was the slave of the plaintiff, and a
fugitive from labor, yet afterwards, to wit, on the day and year
aforesaid, at said district, contriving, and unlawfully and unjustly intending to injure the plaintiff, and to deprive him of said slave, and
of his service, and of the profits, benefits, and advantages that might
and would otherwise have arisen and accrued to him' from.said slave
and his service, did then and there, and there knowingly and willingly, wrongfully, unjustly, and unlawfully receive the said slave of
the plaintiff into his service, and knowingly and willingly harbour,
detain, conceal, and keep the said slave, in consequence of which
- the plaintiff lost said slave, and was deprived of his services and of
all benefits, profits, and advantages which might and would have
arisen and accrued to him from such slave and his service, contrary to the statute of the United States in sclh case made and
provided, whereby the aefenflant forfeited the sum of five hundred
dollars to and for.the use of the plaintiff ; yet the defendant, though
often requested, has not paid the same, nor any part thereof."
1 Second. -

Concealing.

"And also for that, whereas, on the day and year aforesaid, at
said Boone -county, a certain person, to wit, Andrew'v, aged about
thirty years, was the slave of, and in the possession of the plaintiff,
19
voL. v.

218

SUPREME COURT.
Jones

v.

Van Zandt.

and his property, and owed service, and was held to labor to the
plaintiff by the laws of the State of Kentucky, did unlawfully,
wrongfully, and unjustly, without the license or consent and against
the will of the plaintiff, depart and go away from and out of his
service, to wit, at Boone county aforesaid, and came to Hamilton
county in the State and district of Ohio, to the defendant ; and the
defendant had notice that the said Andrew was the slave of the
plaintiff, and a fugitive from labor ; yet afterwards, to wit, on the
day and year aforesaid, at the district aforesaid, contriving, and
wrongfully and unjustly intending to injure the plaintiff, and deprive
him of the said slave, and of his service, then and there, on the day
and year aforesaid, at the district aforesaid, knowingly and willingly,
unjustly, wrongfully, and unlawfully conceal the said slave from the
plaintiff, in conseqfience of which the plaintiff lost said slave, and
was deprived of his service, and of all profits, benefits, and advantages which might and otherwise would have arisen and accrued to
the plaintiff from such slave and his service, contrary to the statute
of the United States in such cases made and provided, whereby the
defendant forfeited the sum of five hundred dollars, to and for the
use of the plaintiff. Yet, though often requested, he has not paid
the same, nor any part thereof."
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and in July, 1843, thQ
cause came on for trial. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff. The substance of the evidence given upon the trial was agreed
upon by.the counsel who argued the cause in this court, as will be
seen by the following, viz. : " The undersigned, of counsel respectively for Jones and Van
Zandt, now under submission to the court, agre that the statement
of the evidence as contained in the opinicn of his Honor, the
circuit judge, on the trial below, shall be ixen and considered by
the court in the same manner as if it wereia part of the record, and
certified by the. Circuit Court.

J. H.

M OREHEAD,

"26th February, 1847.

Of counsel for Jones.
WILLIAM

H.

SEWARD,

Of counsel for defenddtt, Van Zandt."
Te evidence thus adopted by agreement was stated by Mr.
Justice McLean, in the trial below, as follows. See 2 McLean's
Reports, 697.
"IJones, a witness called by the plaintiff, stated that the plaintiff
owned nine negroes (naming them), and resided in Boone county,
Kentucky. That the greater part of them were born his, and that
he purchased the others. That on Saturday evcning, the 23d of
April, 1842, about nine o'clock, he was at the house of the plaintiff,
and saw the negroes ; the n6xt day, at about 12 o'clock, he saw the

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

219

Jones v. Van Zandt.

same negroes, with the exception of two of them,. in the jail at
Covington. The plaintiff lives .ten miles below Covington. Jackson, one of the absent negroes, returned in a few days ; but Andrew remained absent, and has not been reclaimed.
" The plaintiff paid a reward to the persons who returned the negroes, of four hundred and fifty dollars, and other expenses which
were incurred, amounting in the whole to about the sum of six hundred dollars. Andrew was about thirty years old, and his services
were worth to the plaintiff six hundred dollars. That he could be
sold in Kentucky for that sum.
" Several other witnesses corroborated the statements of this witness, as to the ownership of the negroes, the reward paid, and the
value of the services of Andrew.
"lHefferman, a witness, stated, that he lives in Sharon, thirteen
miles north of Cincinuati, on the road to Lebanon.
That on Sunday morning, a little after daylight, he saw a wagon which was rapidly passing through Sharon. It was covered, and both the hind
and fore part of the wagon were closed ;. a colored man was driving
it. He knew the wagon belonged to the defendant, and his suspicion was excited. The witness, and one Hargrave, another witness, started, in a short time, in pursuit of the wagon. They overtook it near Bates's, about six miles from Sharon. The-defendant
lives near Sharon. On coming up with the wagon, the boy driving
it was ordered by Hargrave to stop ; he checked the horses, but a
voice from within the wagon directed the boy to drive over him.
The wagon horses were then whipped, running against Hargrave's
horse, which threw him off. The horses were driven in a run
some two hundred yards; but at length were overtaken by the witness, 'who, seizing the reins of the horses,. drew them up into a
corner of a fence. The driver jumped off and ran some distance;
Van Zandt, the defendant, then came out of the wagon, and took
the lines, but the witness refused to let the horses proceed. Eight
negroes were in the wagon; one of them, called Jackson, and Andrew, the driver, escaped; the other seven were brought back to
Covington, and lodged in jail.
"Hargrave, - accompanied the above, witness in pursuit of the
wagon, which he knew to belong to the defendant. Being acquainted with the defendant, he knew it to be his voice which
directed the colored boy to drive over the witness. That the wagon tongue being driven against the horse of the witness, he was
thrown, and the wagon horses vere driven on the run, until overtaken and stopped. Seeing the defendant- in the wagon, with the
negroes, the witness asked him if he did not know they were slaves.
The defendant replied, that he knew they were slaves, but that they
were born free. He said be was going to Springboro', a village in
Warren county. This witness, and also Hefferman, stated the
amount paid as a reward, for bringing the negroes to Covington, as
above.

220

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Van Zandt.

early on Sunday morning saw the wagon moving very rapidly, and two men on horseback pursuing it, near
Bates's. Looked into the wagon, after it was stopped, and saw
the defendant in it, with the negroes. He was asked if he did not
know that they were slaves, and he replied, that by nature they
were as free as any one. Witness took the negroes to Covington
in a wagon. Some time after this, he saw the defendant, who said
to him, 'If you had let me alone, the negroes would have been
free, but now they are in bondage.' And the defendant said it
was a Christian act to take slaves and set them at liberty.
" Bates, a witness, states that he went to the wagon after it had
been stopped, looked into it, and saw the defendant with the negroes. The witness said, ' Van Zandt, is that you ? have you
a load of runaways ?' The defendant replied, ' They are, by
nature, as free.as you and I. The witness heard the defendant
say that, having been at market in the city of Cincinnati, he returned to Lane Seminary, a distance of two or three miles, to spend
the night with Mr. Moore. That he left his wagon standing in the
road, and when he came to it, about three o'clock the next morning, he found. the negroes standing near it ; that he did not know
how they came there, or where they wished to go. He had no
conversation with them. He geared his horses, hitched them to
the wagon, and the negroes got into it. He afterwards said that
he had received the blacks from Mr. Alley.
" McDonald, a witness, stated that he heard the defendant say
he received the negroes on Walnut Hills, the same place as Lane
Seminary. That, at three o'clock on Sunday morning, he found
the negroes standing nedr his wagon, in the road ; they got into it;
and he started for home. That he rose early to have the cool of
the morning. Defendant said he had done right. That he would
at all times help his fellow-man out of bondage ; and that what he
had done he would do again.
" Thurman, a.witness, stated that he saw the defendant in the
wagon *ith the negroes, the cover closed behind and before. The
defendant said to Hefferman, the negroes ought to be free, but he
knew they were not. The defendant lives at Sharon, and this was
six or seven miles beyond, on the road to Lebanon."
After the rendition of the verdict in the court below, the counsel
for the 'defendaht filed reasons in support of a motion for a neyv trial,
and also reasons in support of a motio for arrest of judgment,
which were, respectively, as follows, vL.
.41 Hume,

-very

-:

JOHN VANZANPT ads. WHARTON JONES.

Circuit ,Courtof United States, 7th Circuit and District of
Ohio.

-

In Debt. -

Verdict $ 500.

The defendant, John Van Zandt, by his counsel, moves the
court for a new trial, and assigns the following reasons :-

JANUARY

TERM, 1&47.

221

Jones v. Van Zandt

1. The court erred in chargingthejury that it was not necessary
to prove that the defendant intentionally placed the colored persons
in question out of view, for the .purpose of eluding the search of the.
master or his agent, in order to establish the fact of concealment, orto prove that he received, sheltered, and placed them out of view
for said purpose, in order to establish the, fact of harbouring ; but
charged that it was sufficient, if the jury believed, from the evidence,
that the defendant reeeived the colored persons into his wagon, and
transported them to Bates's from Walnut Hills, with intent to facilitate their escape from their master.
2. The codrt erred in charging the jury that it was not necessary,
in order to establish the plaintiff's right to recover, to prove actual
notice to the defendant from the claimant, or some one acting in his
behalf, that the persons alleged to, be harboured or concealed by him
were fugitives from labor, within the meaning of the adt of Congress ; but charged, that it was sufficient if the jury should be satisfied, from the evidence, that the defendant knew that such persons
were fugitives from labor.
3. The verdict is against evidence.
4. The verdict is against law.
CHASE & BALL, Attorntysfor .?ef!t,
JOHN VAN ZANDT ads. WHARTON JONEs.

Circuit Court of United Stateg, .7th Circuit and District of
OAio. -

In Delt.

The defendant, by his counsel, moves the court to arrest judgment
on the verdict rendered in this cause for the following reasons :I. Because the plaintiff's declaration, and the allegations therein contained, are insufficient in law to warrani said judgment. 1. In this, that in no count of said declaration has the plaintiff
averred that the person or persons therein described as fugitives
from labor were held to service under the laws of the State of
Kentucky, and, being so held, escaped from that State into the
State of Ohio.
2. In this, that the act of Congress referred to in said declaration is unwarranted by, or repugnant to, the constitution of the
United States, and therefore null and void.
3. That the said act, so far as-it applies to the case made in the
plaintiff's declaration, is repugnant to the sixth article of the ordinance for the government of the territory of the United. States
northwest of the river Ohio, and therefore, so far, null and void.
4. In other respects.
II. Because" the verdict rendered by the jury is general, whereas
it ought to have been confined to the good count, or counts, in said
declaration.
CHASE & BALL, .Atorneysfor Def' ,

222

SUPREME

COURT.

Jones v. Van Zandt.

In order to bring-these questions before the Supreme -Court,
the judges below differed pro forma, and a certificate was made
out, showing that their opinions were opposed on the folfowing
points :First. Whether, under the 4th section of the act of 12th February, 1793, "respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters, on a charge for harbouring
and conbealing a fugitive from labor," the notice must be in writing
by the claimant, or his agent, stating that such person is a fugitive
from -labor, under the 3d section of the above act,'and served on
the person harbouring or concealing such fugitive, to makd him liable
to the penalty of five hundred dollars under the.act.
Secondly. Whether such notice, if not in writing and served as
aforesaid, must be given 'verbally by the claimant or his agent to
the person who harbours or conceals the fugitive ; or whether, to
charge him under the statute, a general notice to the public in a
newspaper is nece.ssary.
Thirdly. Whether clear proof of the nowledge of the defendant,
by his own confession or otherwise, that he knew the colored person was a slave and fugitive from labor, though he may have acquired such knowledge from the slave himself, or otherwise, is not
sufficient to charge him with notice.
Fourthly. Whether receiving the fugitive from labor at three
o'clock in the morning, at a place in the State of Ohio about twelve
miles distant from the place in Kentucky where the fugitive was
held to labor, from a certain individual' and transporting him in a
closely covered wagon twelve or fourteen miles, so that the boy
thereby escaped pursuit, and his services were thereby lost to his
master, is not a barbouring or concealing of the fugitive within the
statute.
Fifthly. Whether a transportation, under the above circumstances, though the boy should be recaptured by his master, is not a
harbouring or concealing of him within the statute.
Sixthly. Whether such a transportation, in an open wagon,
whereby the services of the boy were entirely lost to his master is
not a harbouring of him within the statute.
Seventhly. Whether a claim of the fugitive from the person harbouring or concealing him must precede or accompany the notice.
Eighthly. Whether any overt act, so marked in its character as
to show an inte1ntion to elude the vigilance of the master or his
agent, and which is calculated to attain such an object, is a bar•bouring of the fugitive within the statute.
The cause having progressed, and the jury brought in their ver-.
- dict, the defendant moved in arrest of judgment, and assigned sun..
dry reasons in support of his motion, on some of which points the
opinions of the judges were opposed, to wit First. Whetlar the first and second counts contain the necessary

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

223

Jones v. Van Zandt.

averments, that Andew, the colored man, escaped from the State
of Kentucky into the State of Ohio.
Secondly. Whether said counts contain the necessary averments of notice that said Andrew was a fugitive from labor, within
the description of the act of Congress.
Thirdly. Whether the aveiments in said counts, that the defendant harboured said Andrew, are sufficient.
Fourthly. Whether said counts are otherwise sufficient.
Fifthly. Whether the act of Congress, approved February 12th,
1793, be repugnant to the constitution of the United States.
Sixthly. Whether said act be repugnant to the ordinance of
Congress, adopted July, 1787, entitled, "An ordinance for the
government of the territory of the United States northwest of the
river Ohio."
The case was submitted on printed argument, by.TlIr. Morehead,
for the plaintiff, and .11r. Chase and ,Mr. Seward, for the defendant.
It is impossible to insert the whole of thesO arguments, as that of
Mr. Chase is upwards of 6ne hundred pages, and that of Mr. Seward forty pages, in length.
The points stated and argued by ltr. Chase were the following :1. Whether the plaintiff's declaration be sufficient; and, under
this head, what are the requisites of notice under the act of 1793 ?
2. What acts constitute the offence of harbouring or concealing,
under the statute ?
3. Whether the act of 1793 be consistent with the provisions of
the ordinance of July 13, 1787 ?
4. Whether the act of 1793 be not repugnant to the constitution
of the United States ?
Mr. Seward stated his points as follows 1. The declaration is insufficient.
2. The evidence was improper and insufficient.
3. The act of 1793, so far as the present subject is involved,
is void, because it violates the ordinance of 1787.
4. The act of 1793 conflicts with the constitution of the United
States, and is therefore void.
Mr. Justibe WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here on a division of opinion in the Circuit
Court of Ohio.
The subject-matter of the original 'suit was debt for a penalty of
500, under the act of Congress of February 12th, 1793, for concealing and harbouring a fugitive slave belonging, to the pilaintiff.
The certificate of the division of opinion, as will be seen in the
record, relates to various questions, arising under two.heads.

224

SUPREME

COURT.

Jones v. Van Zandt.

First, on rulings made at the trial, and, secondly, on a motion in
arrest of judgment.
These questions extend to the unusual number of fourteen. Not,
however, that the presiding judge in the circuit and his associate entertained strong doubts concerning, the general principles
involved in them all, as may be seen in the report of the case,
(2 McLean, C. C. 615), but because the questions involved could
not otherwise be brought here ; and they possessed so wide and
deep an interest, as to render it desirable they should come under
the revision 'of this court.
For that purpose, in conformity to what is understood to have
been the usage in the circuits, they accommodated the parties by
letting a division proforma be entered on all the points presented.
It is not understood that any of them embrace things urged merely
as reasons for a a new trial. For if they did, - as such a trial rests
in the discretion of the court, and is not a matter of strict right, - a
division of opinion in lelation to it furnishes no cause for bringing
the case here for our decision on questions certified. United States
v. Daniel], 6 Wheat. 542 ; 4 Wheat. 213; 5 Cranch, 11,187;
.4 Wash. C. C. 333.
Before entering on the exanination of the points, ii ill make
several of them more intelligible, if we advert to the clause in the
constitution bearing on this subject, and the act of Congress under
which the action was instituted.
The former is, that "1No person held to serv:ce or labor in one
State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such
service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to
whom such service or labor may be due." - Art. IV., § 2.
In respect to the statute, it wilt not be necessary to repeat here
any of it, except portions of the 3d and 4th sections :§ 3. " And be it also enacted, That when a person, held to
labor in any of the United States or in either of the territories on
the northivest or south of the river Ohio, under the laws thereof,
shall escape into any other of the said States or Territory, the person to whom- such labor or service may be due, his agent or attorney, is hereby empowered to seize or arrest su6h fugitive from"
labor."
§ 4.-" And be it further enacted, -that any person who shall
knowingly and willingly obstruct or hinder such claimant, his agent
or attorney, in so seizing or arresting such fugitive from labor, or
shall rescue such fugitive from such claimant, his agent or attorney,
when so arrested pursuant to the authority herein given or declared,
or shall harbour or conceal s'uch person, after notice that he. or she
was a fugitive from labor, as aforesaid, shall, for either of te said
offences, forfeit and pay the sum of 6ve hundred dollars:"
1
Statutes dt Large, 303, 305, Act of Feb. 12, 1793.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

225

Jones v. Van Zandt.

The first question at the trial on which a division arose was, in
substance, whether the 11 notice "I referred to in the 4th section-must
be in writing.
No doubt exists with this court that it may be otherwise than in
writing, if it only bring home clearly .to the defendant knowledge
that the person he concealed was " a fugitive from labor."
The offence consists in continuing to secrete from the owner
what the acts of Congress and the constitfition, as well as the laws
of several of the States, treat, forcertain purposes, as property, after
knowing that claims of property exist in respect to the fugitive.
Now the act of Congress does not, in terms, require the notice
to be in writing, nor does the reason of theprovision, nor the evil to
be guarded against, nor any sound analogy.
The reason of the provision is merely, that the party shall have
notice or information sufficient to put him on inquiry, whether he
is not intermeddling with what belongs to another..
If the information gi-'en to him, orally or in writing, is such as
ought to satisfyr a fair-minded man that he is concealing the property
of another, it is his duty under the. constitution and laws-to cease
to do it longer. Eades v. Vandeput, 5 East, 39, note ; Blake v.
Lanyon, 6 D. & E. 221.
Such a notice is sufficient also by way of analogy ; as, for instance, notice in relation to a prior claim on property purchased.
The Ploughboy, I Gall. 41 ; 9 Jurist, 649 ; 1 Sumner, C. C. 173 ;
1 Cranch, 45. Or of a prior defence or set-off against a demand
assigned to him. Humphries. v. Blight's Assignees, 4 lDall. 370.
Or even' in crimes, that the notes or coin one is passing away are
counterfeit.
Any other construction would go, likewise, beyond the evil to be
avoided by the notice, which was 'the punishment of an individual
for harbouring or concealing a person, without having reasonable
grounds to believe he was thereby injuring another.
Any other construction, too, would be suicidal to the law itself,
as before a notice in writing could be prepared and served on the
defendant, the fugitives would be -carried beyond the reach of
recovery in many cases, and in others would have passed into unknown hands.
This is not a case like some cited in the argument, where the
party prosecuted was not concerned in getting away the apprentice
or person harboured, but merely entertained him afterwards from
hospitality, oi in ignorance of his true character and condition.Then a more formal notice and demand of restoration may be
proper, before suit, in order to remove any doubts as to the condition of the fugitive who is thus entertained, or'the intent of the
master to enforce his rights and reclaim his property. 1 Chit. Gen.
Prac. 449. But verbal notice is enough then. See the. cases in
East and Durnford & East, just 'cited.

226

SUPREME

I

COURT.

Jones v. Van Zandt.

Besides this, the present is a case where the defendant was a
partaker in accomplishing the escape itself, like a particeps criminis,
and where the concealment and harbouring wer. not after the escape
was over, but during its progress, while the slaves were in transitu ;
and where the notice is not exclusively with a view to procure their
restoration, but is also an element in the case to show whether
the party was, knowingly or ignorantly as to their condition, rendering them assistance to escape by temporarily harbouring or secreting them. So far as regards this point, it is a question merely
of scienter. No matter how or whence the kn6wledge came, if it
only existed. The concealment here was practised during fresh pursuit to retake the slaves ; and hence, without any formal notice or
demand, no doubt could exist as to the wish to reclaim them, as
well as the fact of their being slaves. See Hart v. Aldridge,
Cowp. 54.
Furthermore, that the defendant has not suffered by the charge
to the jury on this point is manifest from his own decla'rations at
the time, that he knew the fugitives to he slaves (Jones v. Van
Zandt, 2 McLean, C. C. 599), and from the instruction to the jury
that this fact must be clearly proved before they ought to convict
him (p. 607).
This view of the subject disposes of several other points of division connected with it. Because -very purpose contemplated by
the notice is accomplished, without a publication of it previously
in a newspaper, which is the second question.
To require such a publication would he entirely arbitrary, and
would still more surely defeat the whole law than to hold the notice must be in writing, and served on the defendant, before he is
liable.
So, as to the third question, whether the information be sufficient
if acquired from the slave himself, - it is manifest that such a source
of information for that fact is one of the most satisfactory, as he has
good means of knowing it, and is not likely to admit his want of
freedom, unless .it actually exist.
The next question relates to what constitutes concealment or
harbouring of a slave, within the meaning of this statute.
It seems from the facts, which by agreement are all those reported in the printed case as tried in the court below (2 McLean,
596), as well as those inserted in this record, that several slaves,
owned by the plaintiff in Kentucky, escaped from him and fled
to Ohio, adjoining, and, aided by some person not named," and
when about twelve miles distant from their master's residence, were
taken into a covered wagon by the defendant in the night, and
driven with speed twelve or fourteen miles, so that one was neyer
retaken, though fresh suit was made for the whole.
Now, whatever technical definition may exist of the word conceal or harbour, as applied to apprentices or other subjects, no

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

227

Jones v. Van Zandt.

doubt can exist, that these words and their derivatives must here be
construed in reference to the matter of the. statute, and the nature
of the offence to be punished.
These show this offence to consist often in assistance to escape,
and reach speedily some distant place, where the master cannot
find or reclaim such fugitives, rather than in detaining them long in
the neighbourhood, or secreting them about one's premises.
We see ntohing, then, in the facts here, or in the instruction of
the judge on them, secundum subjectam materiam, which shows
this case not to have been, as the jury found it to be, one .vithin
the manifest design of the statute against harbouring and concealing
persons who were fugitives from labor, after notice, or full knowledge of their character.
Indeed, the general definition of the word harbourin 1 Bouvier,
460, as quoted by the defendant's counsel, - saying nothing as to
the authority of that work, - is such as to be fully covered by the
facts in this case, as stated in the record, and as found by the jury.
It is, - ' to receive clandestinely, and without lawful authority, a
person for the purpose of concealing him, so that another, having
the right to the lawful custody of such person, shall be deprived of
the same."
There was a clandestine reception of the slaves, and without
lawful ,authority, and a concealment of them in a covered wagon,
and carrying them onward and away, so as to deprive the owner of
their custody. " To harbour" is also admitted in the argument
often to mean" to-secrete."
Such is one of the established definitions by the best lexicographers. Yet here they were secreted,
not only, as just stated, by being placed in a covered wagon, and
carried to a greater distance from their master, but it was done rapidly, and in part under the shades of night.
That no mistake on this p6int occurred at the trial is likewise manifest from the fact, that the 'judge charged the jury, the defendant
must not be considered as harbouring or concealing the slaves, unless his conduct was such, ".as not only to show an intention to
elude the vigilance of the master, but such as is calculated to attain
that object."
2 McLean, C. C. 615.
Nor can the recovery of one of the slaves afterwards, who was
thus concealed and transported, vary the previous fact of secreting
and harbouring him. That is the fifth inquiry. The ansxwer to the
sixth is involved in that to the fourth and fifth ; as is an answer to
the seventh in that 'to the first question. Because, if the notice
need not come from the claimant himself, nor be in writing, it need
not be preceded or accompanied by a claim, which is the seventh
inquiry. A claim subsequently made must be equally valid with
one before the notice, whether looking to the reason of the case, or
the language of the statute.
The gist of the offence consists in the concealment of another's

228

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Van Zandt.

property, under knowledge that it belongs to another, and not in a
claim being previously made and refused. That refusal might constitute a separate wrong, or be another species of evidence to prove
a harbouring of the slave, but it is not the offence itself, for which
the penalty now sued for is imposed.
The eighth and last question under this bead seems to be an abstract proposition, and does not refer to any particular facts in the
case. But if it-,was laid down in relation to some of them, as it must
be presumed to have been in order to make it a proper subject for
a division of opinion, to be reconsidered her6, we are not aware
of any thing objectionable in it. The "1overt act" spoken of was
required to be one both intended and calculated to elude the master's
vigilance. If so, it showed acts and designs of the defendant,
which in the words and spirit of the statute amount or tend directly
to "harbour or conceal"' the fugitive from labor.
We shall now proceed to the points of division in respect.to the
motion in arrest. They are, firstly, whether the counts contain the
necessary averments, that the slave Andrew escaped from Kentucky to Ohio.
. It is admitted that, this prosecution being a penal one, the declaration niust bring it within the statute clearly, whether looking to its
language or spirit. Dwarri§on Statutes, 736 ; .5 Dane's Abr. 244,
§ 8 ; Simmons's case, 4 Wash. C. C. 397. It is not necessary
to multiply authorities on so elementary a proposition.
On turning to the counts, however, it will be seen that they
allege the residence of the plaintiff in Kentucky, - the ownership
by him of these slaves, held to labor there, - and their "unlawfully," and "1withoat his consent," going from'that place to Ohio,
as " fugitives from labor." All -these allegations combined, and
not merely the going away, are a clear and sufficient averment of
an escape of the slave Andrew under the first objection in arrest.
If they contain sufficient matter to show an escape, it need not be
alleged in the very words, ipsissimis verbis, of the statute. 1 Chit.
P1. 357; The King v. Stevens et al., 5 East, 244.
The ungrammatical use of the word " was "-for "were," in
speaking of both slaves, is'urged as an uncertainty which vitiates
this part of the declaration. But no one can doubt that both are
referred to, and the moreespecially after a verdict: As to what is
thus covered by a verdict, see Garland v. Davies, 4 How. 131,
and the cases there cited, and 11 Wend. 374.
The second point certified under the motion in arrest is, whether
the 1,counts contain the necessary averments of notice that said
Andrew was a fugitive from labor within'the description of the act
of Congress."
We cannot doubt that they do, when the first count alleges that
said Andrew was in Ohio, " a fugitive from labor, and the defendant, well knowing that said Andrew was the slave of the plaintiff,
and a fugitive from labor," &e., did harbour and conceal him.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

229

Jones v. Van Zandt.

So in respect to the -third question connected with the arrest of
judgment, which is, whether the averments are sufficient under the
statute as to harbouring the slave Andrew, the answer can be but
one way. However strict the construction should be, yet the count
alleges, in so many words, that the defendant did "knowingly and
wilfully harbour, detain, conceal, and keep said slave."
Under the fourth general objection of insufficiency in the -declarasion, no specific point, not otherwise designated, has been.called to
our attention, except that all the. acts alleged in the d~claration are
not said to be "contrary to the statute." This last expression
follows the concluding portion of the count, and this expression
may be necessary in a penal declaration. Lee v. Clark, 2 East,
33 ; 1 Gall. 259, 265, 271 ; 1 Chit. P1. 358.
But all know, that where it is inserted at the end of a declaration
or indictment, it does not, as a general rile, relate to the last preceding averments alone, but the whole subject-matter before alleged
to constitute an offence. It is all' that misconduct which is contrary
to the statute, and not the concluding part of it only.
It remains to consider the fifth and sixth divisions of opinion~under
this head. They are, whether the act of Congress, under which
the action is brought, is repugnant either to the constitution, or the
ordinance "for the government of the territory northwest of the
river Ohio."
This court has already, after much deliberation, decided that the
act of February 12th, 1793, was not repugnant to the constitution.
The reasons. for their opinion are fully explained by Justice Story
in Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 611.
In .coming to that conclusion they were fortified by the idea, that
the const:tution itself, in the clause before cited, fiung its shield, for
security, over- such property as is in controversy in the present
case, and the right to pursue and reclaim it within the limits of
another State.
This was only carrying out, in our confederate form of government, die clear right of every man at common law to make fresh
suit and recapture of his own property within the realm. 3 Black.
Com. 4.
But the power by national law to pursue and regain most kinds
of property, in the limits of a foreign government, is rather an act of
comity than strict right ; and hence, as the property in persons
might not thus be recognized in some of the States in the Unior,
and its reclmation not be allowed through either courtesy or fight,
this clause was undoubtedly introduced into the constitution, as one
of its compromises, for the safety bf that portion of the Union which
did permit such property, and which other'wise might often be deprived of it entirely by its merely crossing the line of an adjoining
State. 3 Madison Papers, 1569, 1589.
This was thought to be too harsh a doctrine in respect to any
VOL. V.
20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Van Zandt.

title to property, - of a friendly neighbour, not brought nor placed
in another State, under its laws, by the owner -himself, but escaping
there against his consent, and often forthwith pursued in order to be
reclaimed.
The act of Congress, passed only four years after the constitution
was adopted, was therefore designed merely to render'effective
the guaranty of the constitution itself; and a course of decisions
since, in the courts of the States and general government, has for
half a century exhibited great uniformity in favor of the validity as
well'as expediency of the act. 5 Serg. & R. 62 ; 9 Johns. 67 ;
12 Wend. 311, 507 ; 2 Pick. 11 ; Baldw. C. C. 326 ;.4 Wash.
C. C 326 ; 18 Pick. 215.
While the compromises of the constitution exist, itisnnpossible
the duty incumbent on
to do justice to their requirements, or fulfil
us towards all the members of the Union, under itsprovisions, without sustaining such enactmenits as those of the statute of 1793.
We do not now propose to review at length the reasoning on
which this act has been pronounced constitutional. All of its provisions have been found necessary to protect private rights, under
the clause in the constitution relating to this subject, and to execute
the duties imposed on the general government to aid by legislation in enforcing every constitutional provision, whether in favor of
itself or others. This grows out of the position and nature of such
a governient, and is as, imperative on it in cases not enumerated
specially, in respect to such legislation, as in others.
That this act of Congress, then, is not repugnant to the constitution, must be considered as among the settled adjudications of this
court.
The last question on which a division is certified relates to the
ordinance of 1787, and the supposed repugnancy to it of the act of
Congress of 1793.
The ordinance prohibited the existence of slavery in the territory
northwest of the river Ohio among only its own people. Similar
prohibitions have from time to time been introduced into many of
the old States. But this circumstance does not affect the domestic institution of slavery, as other States may choose to allow it
among their people, nor impair their rights of property under it,
when their slaves happen to escape to other States. These other
States, whether northwest of the river Ohio, or on the eastern side
of the Alleghanies, if out of the Union, would not be bound to surrender fugitives, even for crimes, itbeing, as before remarked, an act
of comity, or imperfect obligatiop: Holmes v. Jennison et al., 14
Pet. 540. But while within the Union, and under the obligations
of the constitution and laws of the Union, requiring that this kind
of property in citizens of other States - the right to "service or
-labor" - be not discharged or destroyed; they must not interfere
tq impair or destroy it, but, if one so held to labor escape into

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

231

Jones v. Van Zandt.

their limits, should allow him to be retaken and returned to the
place where he belongs. In all this there is no repugnance to the
ordiiiance. Wherever that existed, States still maintain their own
laws, as well, as the ordinance, by not allowing slavery to exist
But in relation
among' their own citizens (4 Martin's R. 385).
to inihabitants of' other States, if they escape into the limits of
States within the ordinance, and if the constitution allow them,
when fugitives from labor, to be reclaimed, this does not interfere
with their own laws as to their own. people, nor do acts of Congress
interfere with them, which are rightfully passed to carry these constitutional rights into effect there, as fully as in other portions of the
Union.
Before concluding, it may be expected by the defendant that
some notice should be taken of the argument, urging on us a disregard of the constitution and'the act of Congress in respect to this
subject, on account of the supposed inexpediency and invalidity of
all laws recognizing slavery or -any right of property in man. But
that is a political question, settled by each State for itself; and the
federal power over it is limited and regulated by the people of the
States in the constitution itself, as one of its sacred compromises,
and which we possess no authority as a judicial body to modify or
overrule.
Whatever may be the theoretical opinions of any as to the expe-.
diency of some of those compromises, or of the right of property in
persons which they recngnize, this court has no alternative, while
they exist, but to stand by the constitution and laws with fidelity
to their duties and their oaths. Their path- is a strait and narrow
one, to go where that constitution and the laws lead,* and not to
break both, by travelling without or beyond them.
Let our opinion on the several Voints raised be certified to the
Circuit Court of Ohio in conformity to these views.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Ohio, and on the points and questions on which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in
such case made and provided, and-was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, 1st. That, under the fourth section of the act of 12th February,
1793, respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from
the service of their master, on a charge for harbouring and concealing fugitives from labor, the notice need not be in writing by the
claimant or hi3 agent, stating that such person is a fugitive from
labor, under the third section of the above act, and served on the
person harbouring or concealing such fugitive, to make him liable to
the penalty of five hundred dollars under the act.

232

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Van Zandt.

2d. That such notice, if not in writing and served as aforesaid,
may be given verbally by-the claimant or his agent, to the person
who harbours or conceals the fugitive, and that to charge him under
the statute, a general notice to the public in a newspaper is not
necessary.
3d. That clear proof of the knowledge of the defendant, by his
6wn confession or otherwise, that he knew the colored person was a
slave and fugitive from labor, though he may have acquired such
knowledge from the slave himself, or otherwise, is sufficient tor
charge him with notice.
4th. That receiving the fugitive from labor at three o'clock ih the
morning, at a place in the State of Ohio, about twelve miles distant
from the place in Kentucky where the fugitive was held to labor,
from a certain individual, and transporting him in a closely covered
wagon twelve or fourteen miles, so that the boy thereby escaped
pursuit, and his services weie thereby lost to his master, is a harbouring or concealing of the fugitive within the statute.
•5th. That a transportation under the above circumstances, though
the boy should be recaptured by his master, is a harbouring or concealing of him within the statute.
6th. - That such a transportation, in such a wagon, whereby the
services of the boy were entirely lost to his master, is"
a harbouring
of him within the statute.
7th. That a claim of the fugitive from the person hdrbouring or
concealing him need'not precede or accompany the notice.
8th. That any overt act, so marked in its character as to show
an intention to elude the vigilance of the master or his agent, and
which is calculated toattain such an object, is a h' rbouring of the
fugitive within the statute.
* 9th. That the first and second counts contain the necessary
averments, that Andrew, the colored man, escaped from the State
of Kentucky into the State of Ohio.
10th. That said counts contain the necessary averments of notice
that said Andrew was a fugitive from labor within the description
of the act of Congress.
11th. That the averments in said counts, that the defendant
harboured said Andrew, are sufficient.
"12th. That said counts are otherwise sufficient.
13th. That the act of Congress approved February 12th, 1793,
is not repugnant to the constitution of the United States. And,
Lastly. That the said act is not repugnant to the ordinance of
Congress adopted July, 1.787, entitled, "An ordinance for the
government of the territory of the United States northwest of the
river Ohio."
It is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court,.
that it be so' certified to the-said Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio.

