JANUARY TERM, 1847.

127

Nelson et al. v. Hill et al.

JoHN. G. NELSON, CHARLES G. CARLETON, WILLIAM I.' STEWART
(PARTNERS IN TRADn UNDER THE NAx oF NELSON, CAELETO, &

Co.), HENRY PARISH, DANIEL PARISH, JOHN R. MARSHALL, JOHN B.
SEwt, THoxAs PARI H, LEROY M. WILEY (PARTNERS m T"tIn

UNDER THE NAx

OF -PARISH, MARSHALL, & Co.), ArPELLANTS,

v. JOHN J. HILL, JOHN P. LirscomB, ABSALOx HARDIN, LORENZO
I. SrTrON 'AND ANN R. SExToN (HIs WIFE), AND JAx s GRAY,
DEFENDANTS.

It is not irregular for two mercantile firms to unite as complainants in equity in a
creditor's bill.

An objection that a bill is multifarious must be made before answer, and can be tested only by the struc.ure of the bill itself.
The creditor of a partrership may, at his oltion, proceed at law against the surviving partner or go, in the first instance, into equity against the representatives
df the deceased partner. It is not necessary for him to exhaust his remedy at
law against the surviving partner be'ore proceeding in equity against the estate, ofthe deceased.
Where there were twomnercantile fins and some of the members common to both,
a creditor's bill was not multifarious when filed against the personal representatives of two ofthe deceased partners of the two fr-ms and also against the surviving partner of one of the firms.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Alabama.
The suit originated in the District Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama, from which it was carried,
by appeal, to the Circuit Court, and thence was brought to this
court.
In 1834, thL appellanta, consisting of two mercantile houses in
New York, became the creditors of two firms in the State of Alabama, namely, the firns of Whitsett, Gray, &,Co. and of Whitsett
& Gray ; thib former composed of William H. Whitsett, Thomas
Gray, John J. Hill, the latter of William H, Whitsett and Thomas Gray.
The debts of these Alabama 'houses to their New York creditors set forth as follows :Whitsett, Gray, & Co., to Nelson, Carleton, &Co., a note dated
May 17th, 1834, for'$1;061.36, at 9 months, Whitsett, Gray,
& Co, to Parish, Marshall, & Co-. two notes, one dated 'ay
10th, 1834, for $1,470.95, at 9 months, and one, same date, for
$1,470.95, at 11 months ; a bill of exchange drawn by Whitsett,
Gray, & Co. on John C. Sims & Co. for 61,901.56, at 4. months;
and a note to White, Brothers. & Co., by Whitsett, Gray, &*Co.,
for $5331.46, at 12 months.
Of the individuals composmg the two Alabama firms, William
H. Whitsett died in October, 1835, and administration of his estate
was committed to Lipscomb & Hardin. Thomas Gray died in
1835, and administration of his estate was granted to James Gray
and Ann R. Gray, the widow of Thomas, who afterwards intermarried with Lorenzo Sexton.

128

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson

et al. v. Hill et al.

Upon three of the above notes, judgments were obtained in December, 1835, against Hill, as surviving partner of Whitsett, Gray,
& Co. In January, 1840, a bill was filed on the equity side of the
District Court of the United- States for the Middle District of Alabama by the New York firms, which, in August, 1841, was amended. "The amended bill included, as defendants, James Gray,
Lorenz6 Sexton and Ann R. Sexton. (formerly Ann Gray), administrators of Thomas Gray, deceased, Absalom Hardin, John P.
Lipscomb, and Joseph J. Hill, administrators of William H. Whitsett, deceased.
The bills recited the above fact; stated that execution.bad been
sued out against Hill, but that no property could be found ; that.the
estate of Whitseft had been reported to the County Court as insolvent, but that the estate of Gray was fully able to pay the debts of
the partnerships ; praying for a discovery and payment, &c. Lipscomb and Hardin answered the bills, danying generally the
merits of the claim.
Hill answered separately, and concluded his answer with denying
the right of the complainants to unite their claims in one suit.
Gray filed a separate demurrer, assigning therefore the following
causes : -

I. That the said complainants have not by their said bill and
amended bill made such a case as entitles them in a court of equity'
to any discovery from this defendant or any relief against him as to
matter contained in the said bill and amended bill, &c.
II. That the complainants have joined in their bill and amended
bill distinct matters which, according to law and the practice of
this court, ought not to be joined, &c.; that is to say, have joined
matters against the late firm of Whitsett & Gray, composed of Win.
H. Whitsett, deceased, and Thomas Gray, deceased, with matters
against the late firm of Whitsett, Gray, & Co., composed of the
said Whitsett & .Grayand one John J. Hill, the said John J. Fill
having no interest in the matter against the said late firm of Whitsett & Gray. They have joined matters of debt against said late
-firm, Whitsett & Gray, created by note, payable to certain persons using the name and style of White, Brothers, & Co,, to which
deb' -the said complainants, or either of them, have not any interest,
as far as appears by their said bill or amended bill, and in which
the said defendant, Hill, is in no wise interested, nor in any wise
liable, &c.
Ill. The complainants' bill and amended, bill do not show that
complainants had exhausted their remedy at law before coming into
this court in such manner as to entitle them to the aid of this honorable court as 4 court of chancery, &c. Wherefore, for the foregoing causes, and for-divers other causes of demurrer appearing in
the said bill and amended bill, this defendant doth demur thereto;
and he prays the judgment of this honorable court vhether he shall

JANUARY
Nelson

TERM, 1847.

129

et al. v. Hill et al.

be compelled to make further and other answers to the said bill;
and he hunbly prays to be dismissed from hence with his reasonable
cost in this behalf sustained.
In December, 1841, the cause came before the District Court,
which sustained the demurrer.
The complainants appealed to the Circuit Court, which in March,
1843, affirmed the decree of the District Court. From the decision of the Circuit Court the complainants appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. .Dargan,for the appellants; and
AIr. Crittenden, for the appellees.
Mr. Dargan.
The decree, rendered off the demurrer of James Gray, dismissed
the bill as to all the defendants, and they were adjudged to recover
their costs. This-was the necessary result upon sustaining the demurrer of James Gray, for he being a joint administrator with
Sexton and wife, the suit could not-proceed without him. The appeal was taken against all the defendants, and the cause was pending properly in this court, when Gray died; his death did not
abate the suit or render it defective, for his entire interest survived
to Sexton and wife, and the administrator of James Gray has no
interest in the suit. Therefore the cause is not out of court or
abated by the death of James Gray, nor is it necessary to make his
representatives parties.
The only question that can be raised
against the bill is, that it is multifarious.
The bill is not mWltifarious because it is filed in the name of
Parish, AMarshgll, & Co. and Nelson, Carleton, & Co., two distinct firms.
It is well settled that when a creditor seeks the aid of a court of
equity to subject the assets of a deceased debtor to the payment
of his debt, he may sue for himself and all other creditors who will
make themselves parties to the suit, unless his application to a court
of equity be founded on a specific lien on a specific chattel, or on
particular real estate, as a mortgagee. But in the absence of any
specific lien, that would give him an exclusive right as against the
thing bound by the lien, he may sue for himself and all other creditors. Story's Equity Pleadings, §§ 99, 100, and the cases cited.
Indeed, if the bill seeks to subject the real estate of the decedent, it is said the creditor must sue in behalf of all ; here two firms
sue for themselves and all other creditors who will join in the 'suit.
The bill is not multifarious because it seeks to obtain satisfaction
of debts due Nelson, Carleton, & Co. and Parish, Marshall, & Co.
by Whitsett, Gray, & Co., and also debts due Parish, Marshall, &
Co. by Whitsett & Gray alone. The debts due the complainants
by Whitsett, Gray, & Co. bad been sued at law against Hill, the
surviving partner, and executions have been returned, - Ic no prop-

180

S.UPREME COURT.
Nelson et al. v. Hill et al.

erty"; of course the complainants can. come into equity against the
assets of the deceased partners on those debts, for they have done
all at law they can-do. Now, if it be-true that, as to the two debts
due by Whitsett & Gray alone to Parish, Marshall, & Co., they
have a perfect remedy at law, or if they have as yetno equity, because they must proceed at law first -against the adrqinistrators of
Whitsett, the question. will then be raised, - if complainants seek to
enforce an equitable right, and in the same bill state a different and
legal right, as to which equity will afford no relief, and this is
apparent on the bill, will the statement of this legal right and prayer
for relief, which by possibility cannot be granted, render the bill defective as to the equitable right ? To hold that a bill thus framed
would be defective, would be a rigid rule, not perhaps productive of
benefit or convenience; would it not go to the full extent, that a
complainant must recover on all causes of actions or suits stated in
his bill, or he could not recover at all ? I have not found a case
that goes thus far, and I submit that no case can be found where a
bill is held to be'multifarious because it states and seeks relief as to
a clear equitable right, and also states and seeks relief as to a
different and distinct legal right ; but relief would be granted as to
the equiable right ; aid so far as it .sought relief on a legal title -the
bill would be dismissed at the hearing. If I am right in this view,
the demurrer should not have been sustained, even if the debts due
by Whitsett & Gray alone to Parish, Marshall, & Co. cannot be
enforced in equity against the representatives of Gray, or if their
remedy on these two debts is at law. As to the doctrine of multifariousness, see Gaines v. Chew et- al.,
2 Howard, 619 ; Story
on Eq. Pleadings, 515-517.
This view is submitted on the supposition, that the court may

hold that Parish, Marshall, & Co. have a perfect right at law on the
two debts not sued at law, and due by Whitsett & Gray alone to
them. But I think the rule is now. well established, ihat a creditor
may file his bill in the first instance against the assets of a deceased
partner, notwithstanding the. urviving partner may even be solvent.
See 1 Mylne & Keen, 582. This seems to be a well considered
case, and niaintains this position ; also Story on Partnership, § 362,
p . 513, 514; also the case of Devaynes v.Noble, 1 Merivale, 589.
1 admit that formerly the reverse was held -to be the law ; but since
the decision in the case of Devaynes v. Noble, the rule seems to
be settled, that a creditor my go into equity in the first instance
against the assets of a deceased partner, although the surviving partner may be solvent. The text writers have-adopted this rule without objection. If the court should hold this to be the rule, then
Parish, Marshall, & Co. would be entitled to relief against The administrat6rs of Thomas Gray, although no suit was brought against
Whitsett's representatives who, had survived Gray ; and in that
aspect of the case, could Thomas Gray, administrator, demur, be-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

131

Nelson et al. -v. Hill et al.

cause Parish, Marshall, & Co. sought to enforce debts chargeable
on the estate, because the deceased was liable on them, - on one
jointly with A., the other jointly with B. The estate is .bound for
both, they are both merely debts, and due to the same complainant.
The same authorities show that when a bill is thus filed against the
representatives of. the deceased partner, the surviving partner,,
whether solvent or insolvent, is a necessary party to the bill, although no decree cari be -rendered -against him, for the remedy as
against him is at law.
In conclusion, if the remedy on the bill and note to Parish, Marshall, & Co., due by Whitsett & Gray, is at law exclusively; or if,
as yet, Parish, Marshall, & Co. are not entitl~d to equitable relief
as .to these two debts, then the demurrer is too broad, and should
not have been sustained. But if they can go into equity in the first
instance against the assets of Gray, these two debts are merely debts
due by Gray ; and what inconvenience will result from uniting them
with other debts due the same complainant by Gray ? For the
reasons above stated, the court erred in sustaining the demurrer.
XIr. rittenden referred to the complicated nature of the suit,
brought by two firms against two other firms, and contended that it
was objectionable, on account of multifariousness, misjoinder of
,parties, and causes of action. That a judgment should have been
obtained against the surviving partner at law, before resorting to
equity. For these principles, he cited 2 Madd. Ct~anc. 294; 2
Anstruther, 447 ; Hardress, 337 ;. 2 Veseyi jun. 323 ;. 1 Story
on Partnership, 512- 514.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
Amongst the causes assigned for the demurrer i this case no objection is urged as founded upon te joinder of the different comobjection
may
plainants in
thebe
billimplied
aid amended
inthe general
bill, unless
it be ofsupposed
language
an
the first that.
assignment, namely
the complainants had not
u by their. bills made
such a case as entited them to. relief.
vague and

a statement
indeiite it would be difcult From
to deduce any one thus
ob-

jection rather than another ; but could this assignment be understood
as pointing specifically

to the structure of the bills as multarious,

from the number or relative position of the complainants, it is certain that no valid exception could on either of those grounds be

sustained.
These bills are formally, as well as substantilly, creditors' bills,
i
by which the complainantsare regularly and properly un'ited in seektg satisfaction from subjects against which, as creditors of the defendants, they can properly claim. As to the nature and regularity of such a proceeding see Mitford's Equity Pleadings, 166,
167; Stor's Equity Pleadings §§ 99 10f0, and the authorities
there cited.

132

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson et al. v. Hill et al.

From a want of perspicuity in the statements contained in the
bill and amended bill, in the former especially, there might seem at
frst view some plausibility in the second cause assigned for the demurrer, namely, the multifariousness of the bills from thejoinder of
parties as defendants, who are supposed to be unconnected in interest and in liability. The objection of multifariousness is one of
which it is said by the authorities a defendant can avail himself by
demurrer or exception taken to the pleading only. That being
designed for his protection against the vexation and expense of
answering to matters irrelevant to the true controversy existing between him and the complainmt, if instead of arresting the irregularity at the commencement and claiming the exemption intended
for him, he will go on and answer the bill, the reason for the exemption designed by the rule no longer exists j and although at the
hearing the court may, sponte sua, make an objection for multifariousness, it is no longer in the power of a party, after answer, to
do so. See Whaley v. Dawson, 2 Seho. & Lef. 370, and, Ward
v.. Cooke, 5 Madd. 80. From the character of this objection,
then, and from the established requisition as to the time and mode
of making it by a defendant, it must of course be tested and determined by the structure of the bill alone, and cannot be enforced,
explained, or removed by proceedings posterior to the bill and demurrer, nor by the evidence. From some obscurity in the bill and
amended bill, as has already been observed, there might seem to
be a want of connection in interest and in liability between the defendants, such as would not warrant their being joined in the same
suit. This objection, however, will entirely vanish upon a closer
examination of the relative positions of the parties.
The complainants consist of two sets of creditors. First, the
firm of Nelson, Carleton, & Co.; secondly, the firm of Parish, Marshall, & Co., To each of these firms the copartnership of Whitsett,
Gray, & Co. became-indebted. The debt contracted to the former
house was evidenced by the note of Whitsett, Gray, & Co. The
debts (for there were several in the second instance) due to Parish,
Marshall, & Co. were evidenced by two notes of Whitsett, Gray,
& Co.; by a bill drawn by Whitsett, Gray, & Co. on Sims & Co.
(which it is alleged was not accepted), and by a note of Whitsvtt
& Gray, payable to White, Brothers, & Co., and passed in some
mode not distinctly set forth by Whitsett, Gray, & Co. to Parish,
Marshall, & Co. The firm of Whitsett, Gray, & Co. was composed of William H. Whitsett, Thomas Gray, and John J. Hill;
that of Whitsett & Gray was composed of William H. Whitsett
and Thomas Gray. Thus it appears that Thomas Gray was a
member of both firms. The complainants allege the deaths of-both
Whitsett & Gray, leaving Hill as surviving partner of the firm of
Whitsett, Gray, & Co. They aver that Lipscomb & Haidin administered upon the estate of Whitsett, and had reported that estate

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
Nelson

133

et al. v. Hill et al.

to the County Court to be insolvent ; that Ann R. Gray, widow
of Thomas Gray, and who had intermarried with L. Sexton, bad,
conjointly with James Gray, taken administration of the estatd of
Thomas ; that upon judgments obtained on*the notes of Whitsett,
Gray, & Co., against Hill, the surviving partner, executions had
been sued out and returned nulla bona. There is, in the next
place, charged a belief of frauds and concealment on the part of
Hill, and of the administrators of Whitsett, and also the perfect'
solvency of the estate of Thomas Gray ; the whole.concluding with
a prayer for accounts of the effects of Whitsett, Gray, & Co., of
William H. Whitsett, and of Thomas Gray, in the hands of their
representatives, and for satisfaction.
It is now a rule of law too well settled to be shaken, that 'the
creditor of a partnership may, at-his option, proceed at law against
the surviving partner, or go in the first instance into equity against
the representatives of the deceased partner. See the several cases
on this point collected in Story on Partnership, § 362, note 3.
This being conceded, there can be no valid exception to the prosecution of this suit immediately against the representatives of Thomas
Gray, and it is to the advantage of his estate, that the representatives of Whitsett, and the surviving partner, Hill, shodld both be
called in, that they may be required to contribute from any appropriate means in their possession towards the discharge of their joint
and several obligations. Here, then, will be-perceived the answer
to the third cause assigned for the demurrer, namely, that the complainants had not exhausted their remedy at law before going into a
court of equity. It is the right also of the representatives of the
deceased partner, Whitsett, and that of the surviving partner, Hill,
to participate in settlements in which their interests are directly
involved ; arid an omission in the bills to convene these joint parties
in interest for this purpose, with the representatives of the other
deceased partner, Gray, would have exhibited a palpable and material defect in the proceedings of the complainants.
According to the case made in the bill and amended bill, there
are no visible partnership effects, and it may be the fact, that thesurviving partner,' Hill, and the estate of the deceased partner,
Whitsett, are both insolvent. Should this turn out to be true, then
the separate estate of the partner, Gray, said to be sblvent, must be
responsible to the creditors of each of the firms of which he was a
member. In order to ascertain the precise extent of Gray's responsibility, accounts would be proper, not only between the, two
firms and their respective creditors, but also between these firms
themselveE
Accomts would likewise be proper of the separate
effects of the deceased partners. This view of the case removes
the ground set forth in the second assignment of causes of demurrer..
We are of opiuion that the court could, in equity, properly take
cognizance of this cause without the necessity for further previous
VOL. V.

12

134

SUPREME COURT.
Rowan et al. v. Runnels.

proceedings at law ; that the bill and amended bill of the complainants were not exceptionable for multifariousness ; that the
decree of the Circuit Court dismissing those bills for either of the
causes assiijed for the demurrer is erroneous. The decree is
therefore reversed, and this cause is remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to be there proceeded in, conformably with the principles here established.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counjel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court that the decree of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the. same is hereby reversed, with costs' and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to proceed
therein conformably to the opinion of this court.

XOHN A. RowAN AND JOHN L. EMIs, COPATNERS IN TRADE UNDER
THE NAIE AND STYLE OF RowAN AND HARRIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. HIRAMi G, RUNNELS, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
SADIEv. SAME.
In the case of Groves v. Slaughter (15 Peters, 449) this court decided that the constitution of Mississippi did not, of itself, and without any legislative enaciment,
prohibit the introductioh of slaves as merchandise and for sale.
This constitution went into operation on the 1st of M'Jay, 1833, and on the 13th of
May, 1837, a law was passed to provide for the case.
This court adheres to the construction of the constitution which was given in the
case of Groves v. Slaughter, and enforces contracts made between the two days
above mentioned, although the courts of the State of Mississippi have, since the
decision in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, declared such contracts to be void.

THESE cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Rowan and Harris were citizens of Virginia, and Runnels was a
citizen of Mississippi.'
Both cases depended upon the same principle, and differed only
in this, that, in one, Runnels executed to Rowan & Harris his own
note, and, in the other, indorsed over to them a promissory note
executed by George W. Adams. Both notes were due on the
1st of March, 1840, one being fbr $ 2,950.70, and the other for
$8,671.33.
At maturity the notes were protestd for notipayment, and suits brought upon them.
At the -trial, the defendant offered in evidence a transcript of the
record of a suit pending in the Supreine Court of Chancery of the

