JANUARY TERMr 1847.

317

Commercial Bank .of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

THE PRESIDENTj DIRECTORS, AND COITANY OF THE COMaIERCIAL BANK
OF CINCINNATI, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. EUNICE BuCKINGRA.IeS
EXECUTORS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
To bring a case to this court from the highest court of a State, under the twenty.
fifth section of the Judiciary Act, it mtft appear on the face of the record;-lst
That some of the questions stated in that section did arise in the State court.
and, 2d. That the question was decided in the State court, as required in the
section.
It is not enough that the record' shows that the plaintiff in error contended and
claimed that the judgment of the court impaired the obligation of a contract, and
violated the provisions of the constitution of the United States, and that this claim
was overruletf by the court, but it must appear, by clear and -necessary intendment, that the question must have been raited, and must have been decided, in
order to induce the judgment.
Hence, where the legislature of Ohio, in the year 1824, passed a general law relating to banks, and afterwards, in 1829, chartered another bank; and the question before the State court was, whether or not some of the provisions of the act
of 1824 applied to the bank subsequently chartered, the question was one of construction of the State statutes, and not of their validity.
This court has no jurisdiction ov~r such a case.

THIS case was brought up, by a writ of error issued under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme 'ourt
of the State of Ohio.
The Reporter fiids the following statement of the case prepared
by Mr. Justice Grier, and prefixed to the opinion of the court,
as pronotinced by him.
Einice Buckingham, the plaintiff below, brought an action of
assumpsit against the plaintiffs in error in the Court of Common
Pleas of Hamilton county, and filed her declaration claiming to recover twenty thousand dollars for bills or bank-notes of the Commercial Bank, of which she was owner, and of which demand had
been made of the officers of the bank and payment refused, and
claiming interest thereon at six per cent. from the suspension of
specie payments, and also twelve per cent. additional damages from
the time of demand and refusal. The cause was afterwards removed to the Supreme Court of Ohio, who gave judgment in her
favor ; and thereupon the defendant removed the case by writ of
err(r to the Supreme Court in bank, by whom, the judgment was
affirmed, and thp plaintiffs in error afterwards sued out a writ of.
error to this court.
The Supreme Court entered on their record the following certificate, which contains a sufficient statement of the points arising in
the case :-1' And upon the application of said plaintiffs in error, it is certified
by the court here, that. th said plaintiffs in error, on. the trial arid
hearing of this case in said Supreme Cotirt for Hamilton county,
and also in this court, set up and relied upon the charter granted to
them by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio, on the 11th day
of February, A. D. 1829 ; which charter contains the following
27 *

318

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati' v. Buckingham's Executo:s.

provision :'- the fourth section provides, ' that said bank shall not at
any time suspend or refuse payment, in gold or silver, of any of its .
notes, bills, or other-obligations, due and-payable, or of any moneys
received on deposit ; and in case the officers of the same, in the
usual banking hours, at the office of discount and deposit, .shall
refuse or delay- payment in gtld or silver of any note or bill of said
bank there presented for payment, or the payment of any money
previously deposited therein, and there demanded by any person or
persons entitled-to receive the saie, said bank shall be liable to pay
as additional damages at the rate of twelve per centum per annum
on the amount, thereof for the time during which such payment shall
-be refused or delayed,' and insisted, that, by the provisions above set
forth, the said plaintiffs in error ought not to be held liable to pay
for interest or danfages in case of suspension of specie payments, or
upon demand and refusal of payment of their notes or bills, at a
greater rate than at the rate of twelve per centum per 'annum, and
the court here overruled the defence so set up, and held, that undei
and by virtue of the act of the General Assembly of the State'of Ohio,
passed January 28th, 1824, and of the said charter of the plaintiffs
in error,.the defendants in error were entitled to the interest and
additional damages allowed to the defendants in error by the Supreme Court for Hamilton county, as stated in the bill of exceptions.
The first section of the said act of the General Assembly of the State
of Ohio, of January 28th, 1824, is as follows : - I That in all actions brought against any bank or banker, whether of a public or
private character, to recover money due fro.t such bank or banker,
upon notes or bills by him or them issued, thd plaintiff may file his
declaration for money had and received generally, and upon trial
may give in evidence to support the action any notes or bills of
such bank or banker which said plaintiff may hold at the time of
trial, and may -recover the aniount thereof, with interest from the
time the sam& shall have been presented for payment, arid payment
thereof refused, or from the time that such bank or banker shall
have ceased or refused to redeem his notes with good and lawful
money of the United States.' ' And the' eleventh section of which
is 'as follows : - ( Thai when any bank or banker shall commence
and continue to redeem their' notes or bills with lawful money, the
interest on their notes or bills shall cease from the commencement
of such redemption, by their giving six -weeks' previous notice, in
some newspaper having a general circulation in the county where
such bank or banker transacts banking business, of the time they
intenid to redeem their notes or" bills with lawful money.' It was
contended, and claimed in this court, by said plaintiffs in error,
that the said act 'ofthe General Assembly 6f Ohio, of January
'28th, 1824, as applied to the said provisions of this chart&, impaired the obligatibn thereof, and violated the -provisions of the
constitutioin of the United States ; which claim so set up was over-

IJANUARY

TERM,, 1847.

319

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

ruled by the court. And it is further certified by the court her-,
that on the trial and hearing of this case in this court, the validity
of the said act of the legislature before mentioned was drawn in
question, on the ground that the same, as applied to the charter of
the plaintiffs in error, impaired the obligations thereof, and was
repugnant to' the c6nstitution of the United States, and that the
decision of this court was in favor of the validity of the said act of
the legislature as so applied."
The cause was argued by Mr. Stanberry (Attorney-General of
Ohio) and Mr. Gilpin, for the plaintiffs in error, and Air. Charles
C. Convers, for the defendants in error.
As the case went off upon the question of jurisdiction, only so
much of the arguments of the counsel is given as relates to that point.
•Mr. Stanberry,-for plaintiffs in error.
The first question which presents itself is as to 'the jurisdiction
of this court. It is claimed for the- plaintiffs in error, that the jurisdiction arises upon that clause of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which
provides for the case where the validity of a statute of a State is
drawn in question, as repugnant to the constitution of the United
States, and the decision of the State court is in favor Of its validity.
It appears very clearly in the record, that the validity of a-statute
of Ohio was drawn in question in the State *court, on the ground
that the, same, as applied to the charter of the plaintiffs in error,
impaired the obligation thereof, and that the decision was in favor
of the validity of the statute.
The defendants in error are understood to claim, that, inasmuch
as-this statute was in existence at, and prior to, the granting of the
charter, it cannot b'e held to impair the obligation of the charter ;
in other words, that this prohibition in the constitution is to be confined to retrospective legislation.
Authority for this distinction is supposed to be found in the
opinions of the majority of the judges in Ogden: v. Saunders, 12
Wheat. 213.
There is no question that, in Ogden v. Saunders, the majority
of the court proceeded upon a distinction between a statute prior
and one subsequent to the contract, holding that a statute in force
when the contract is made cannot be said to impair the obligation
of the contract, for the reason that such preexisting statute being a
part of the law of the land at the time of the contract,' the parties
are supposed to acquiesce in it, and in fact to make it part of their
contract.
In the first place, it is to be observed of this case of Ogden v.
Saunders. that the distindtion it enforces is opposed to the reasoning of the court in Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122,
and to the language of the court in McMillan v. McNiell,. 4
Wheat. 209.

320

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

As a general distinction, applicable to all laws, it certainly is not
sound, for it would puite. set aside this most important restraint
upon State legislation. It can only have reference to -such laws as
provide for the manner of enforcing or discharging future contracts,
gnd which may, be said to be in the view of the parties when they
afterwards enter into the class of contracts provided for in the previous legislation.
In this view, Ogden v. Saunders perhaps settles a just distinc-

-

tion, as applicable to the sort of statute then before the court.
The question there was as to the validity of a. State baDikrupt lav,
in reference to a subsequent contract. It might well be said, that
the parties tacitly adopted and recognized this law, or this mode of
discharging their contract, when it was entered into.
.But in the case at bar, no such intendment can be made, and it is
impossible to suppose that the statute of 1824 was adopted by the
parties, or in any way entered into the contract or charter made in
1829. The charter was wholly independent.of the statute.
Again ; this charter was granted l y the State. It does not stand
on.the footing of a contract between individuals, who are supposed
to be bound by the existing laws as to contracts, and to adopt and,
acquiesce in them. Here the State is one of the contracting parties, and the contract itself is a law. If the charter granted in 1829
provides, as we claim it does, that in case of refusal to pay. its notes
in gold and silver the rate of interest shall be twelve per cent., it
surely cannot be intended that the parties submitted themselves to
the prior law of 1824, so as to increase the rate of interest upon
such refusal to eighteen per cetit., or six per cent. in addition to the
rate stipulated by the charter. In no sense can it be said that the
law of 1824 entered'into or became part of the charter. If the
charter had been silent as to the rate of interest in the particular
ease of a refusal' to redeem, the general law of 1824 would have
settled it, and might well have been considered as entering into the
charter and constituting one of its terms, for then there would have
been no inconsistency or repugnancy between the general law and
the charter stipulations,
It is obvious, .then, that the charter is impaired by the law of
1824, when the court add to the twelve per cent. provided for by
the charter the six per cent; provided for in that law.
Taking it as granted that a "charter or contract is so impaired.by
a preexisting laVw, the case is certain]3; within the mischief, if it be
not within the meaning, of the constitutional prohibition.
A .charter is granted by a State,. explicitly defining what shall be
the consequences of suspension -of specie payments, and fixing a
certain limit to the liability of the stockhblders in that event. This
is the, contract made.between the State and the stockholdern. It
has no referenCe to any prior laws, but is a law in itself, superior
to alL, other laws" upbn thp -sbjectrmatter-,so 'provided for, by its

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

321

Commercial Bank of Cicinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

stipulations. Upon a case made between the bank and a holder of
its paper, a claim is made to recover eighteen per cent. for suspension of specie payments, instead of the twelVe per cent; provided
by the charter. This claim is founded upon a statute of the State
passed five years before the date of the charter. The bank questions the validity of this statute, so applied to its charter, on the
ground that it impairs the charter, in adding to the rate of interest
fixed for suspension. The court decides in favor of the validity of
the statute as so applied.; the charter is no protection, and the liability of the bank ii-extended beyond the terms of the charter.
It may be said that all this is the act'or error of the court, not of
the legislature ; that it is simply an error in the construction of the
terms of the charter.
Undoubtedly, contracts are liable to be impaired' by the errors of
the judiciary. It is not for such errors that resort can be had to this
court from State tribunals. If a contract be impaired by the application, on the part of the court, of some legal principle, or by misconstruction of the terms of the contract, a case does not arise for
the jurisdiction of this court ; but if the contract is impaired by !he
application of a State law, then the jurisdiction does attach.
The prohibition the constitution is in terms the most general :
"No State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
This is a clause which does
itself, nor is any mode
pointed out in the constitutionnotbyexecute
which the
prohibition is to be
enforced.
byofmeans
of a
the highestAct,
court
the State.
a out by the
by Judiciary
case,
and theIt iss worked
That court must first decide upon the question as to the application
of the State law; and the decision must affirm its validity. To bring
the jurisdiction of the federal tribunal into" exercise, to bring about
the condition of things to which the constitutional prohibition applies, the law-making and law-expounding authorities of the State
to impair a conmust concur. The law of the State anin n way
tract, without the agency of the State judiciary. When the law is
so applied, and adjudged to be valid by the Stdote court, as to impair
a contract, the cae arises under the constitution.
Now, if the constitutional prohibition were confined to State laws,
which impaired contracts proprio vigore, the argument against its
application to subsequent contracts would be very cogent. It might
then be asked, with confidence, how can a law per'se impair a contract not in existence whn it was enacted? But we hea seen
that the case does not arise upon the law itself, nor until the act of
the court concurs with the act of the legislature. The instant this
double agency unites in the application of a law to a contract, so a
to impair its terms, that instant it becomes, in the meaning of the
constitution, a law impairing the obligation of the contract.
The consiutional prohibition must be understood as not applying
to the law itself, but to its application by the court.

What is said

322

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial B~nk of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

by the majority of the judges. in Ogden v. Saunders proceeds on
that ground. Mr. Justice Trimble, one of the majority, uses this
language (p. 316): " It is not the terms of the law, but its effect, that is inhibited by
the constitution. A law may be, in part constitutional and in part
unconstitutional. It may, when applied to a given case, produce
an effect.which is prohibited by the constitution, but it may not,
when applied to a case differently circumstanced, produce such prohibited effect. Whether the law under consideration, in its effects
and operation upon the contract sued on in this case, be a law impairing the obligation of this contract, is the only necessary inquiry."
We are then to understand, from this clear statement of the
constitutional prohibition, that it is not necessary to show that the
State law is unconstitutional per se ; that, in fact, it may be constitutional for some purposes and unconstitutional for other purposes,
just as it happens to be applied by the court to the particular case
or contract. It is not the purpose or intent of the law ab origine,
*but its effect or application by the court, which is to be regarded.
This being so, what imaginable difference is there between its application to contracts made before or after its enactment ? None
whatever, except in such cases as Ogden v. Saunders, where the
preexisting law is of such' a character as that the parties to the subsequent contract must have made their contract in reference to it,
and tacitly adopted it into the terms of the contract.. Such a preexisting law is, in fact, a part of the whole body of law, which creates and defines the obligation of contracts.
But, 'with. referenee to the contract in this case, where no such
iritendment can be made, where all other laws are set aside by the
legislative authority itself in the grant of the charter, which stands
as the very law for the very case, what imaginable difference is
there in its violation by the application of a preexisting or subsequent law ? .At the best, it is a contract violated by a law of the
State,.not directly and by its terms, but by its effect, as applied to
this charter.
Suppose this statute had been subseqdent in date to the charter,
and the court had then applied it to the charter, so as to impair the
express stipulations as to interest ; the case would have been clearly
within the constitutional prohibition. Now, in the supposed case,
if it clearly appeared that the court of the State had misunderstood
the law in making such application, if it were manifest that the
legislature had no intention, in passing the law, to impair the charter, or in any way, to apply it to the charter, would 811 that oust the
jurisdiction of this court, or. take the case out of the constitutional
prohibition ? Surely hot. It is the fact, not the -intention ; the
effect and application 'of the law, not the law itself, or the motive
with which it was passed, that we must look to.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

323

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

Besides, after the application of the law to the charter by the
State tribunal, the organ to expound and apply the State law, it
must be taken conclusively that the law was intended to apply to
the contract, and no argument, however cogent, would avail against
such conclusion.
Mr. Convers, for defendants in error.
The contract, the alleged violation of which by legislative power
is here complained of, is the. act of incorporation of The plaintiffs
in error, passed by the General Assembly of the Stn.e of Ohio, in
the ordinary form of legislation, on the 1 th day of February, 1829.
The law of the State of Ohio, by which it is claimed that the obligation of this supposed contract was impaired, is the "Act to regulate judicial proceedings where banks and bankers are parties, ;and
to prohibit-issuing bank-bills of certain descriptions," passed on the
2.8th day of January, 1824. The plaintiffs, in error are here to
assert, before this court, that the State of Ohio, in passing a law
in 1824, impaired, by the " passing'1 of that law, the'obligation of
a charter granted afterwards, in 1829 ; that the contract, although
not in existence at the time of the passage of the law complained
of, nor for five years thereafter, was nevertheless "1impaired" by
the prior passing of this pr6existing law !
Two questions,. arising from the record, present themselves for
consideration :
First. Assuming, that the Suprene Court of Ohio, erred in its
construction of the two statutes referred lo, can this court correct
the error ?
Secondly.' Is there any error in that construction of these statutes which was adopted by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and applied
to the case ?
I. Can this court correct the supposed error of the Supreme
Court of Ohio ?
I claim, for the defendants in error, that this court cannot reverse
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio, for the errors- here
alleged against this record.
The clause of the constitution of the United States, under which
such reversal is asked, is as follows : - "1 No State shall pass any
I maintain that this
law impairing the obligation of contracts.'
provision applies only to statutes passed after a contract has been
made, and which, when effect is given to them, according to the
legislative intent, impair the obligation of the contract, - making its
terms different from what they were, as previously settled by the
parties, or its legal effect different from that which it was declared
to be by the laws in force at the time when it was made.
. This constitutional provision is plain, and construes itself. Thb
law is valid, unless the passirig thereof impair u contract. The inhibition directs itself, -in express terms, against the passing of the

324

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

law, and -nothing more. It was designed as a shield against the putting forth of legislative power to dissolve the obligations by which
parties were bound to each other ; not to correct the error&or mistakes of the judicial power in their application of laws constitutionally passed. It is the wrongful passing of the law by the legislature, not the subsequent misapplication or abuse of a law rightfully passed, which is forbidden. The provision relates to the
,state of things at the time of the passing of the law. If the act do
not then impair the contract, it is a valid law. If contracts are afterwards entered into, and the State courts improperly apply the
preexisting law to, such contracts, it can 'in no sense be said that
the passing of the law by the State impaired these contracts. The
effect is matter ex post facto. It is an act of the court upon a question of purely'judicial interpretation ; and upon such questions the
party must abide the final decision of the highest tribunal of his State.
If the power of the legislature be constitutionally exercised at the
time, the act cannot afterwards, by any fiction of relation, he divested of its constitutional character, and become unconstitutional and
void. It is the fact, that the law when passed by ,the State is constitutional or unconstitutional, that determines whether it be valid or
void. It is upon the'act of passing that the constitutional prohibition operates, and, the act once done, it is not in the power of the
future to change the fact, that the law was, when passed, constitutional or unconstitutional. This fact, with its character indelibly
impressed upon.it, as it was at the time of its' occurrence, belongs
to the past, and over it the futiire" can have no power.
Again; the prohibition is *against passing a law "impairing
the obligation of contracts." The very terin impairing, here
used, shows that the law must have the effect of impairing, when
passed, or it does not fall within the prohibition, - it is not an "impairing" law. Of necessity, it implies that there must be a contract in esse, upon which the law, at the time of its passage,
operates, -a contract to be impaired by the passing of the law.
The term "impaired" incorporates into itself, as of the very essence
of its meaning, that there is a subject-matter to be affe.cted, - something to be impaired.
Can it, for a moment, admit of controversy3 that the sole object
of this provision was a restraint upon that dangerous species of
legislation, which, after contracts had been made, interposed to discharge them, or alter their terms, without the consent of the parties,
that it was to preserve existing contracts inviolate against legislative invasion ? Beyond this, it was not intended to abridge the
power of legislation belonging to the States. In the case of
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, Mr. Chief Justice MarThe convention apshall, speaking of' this pro-vision, says, -"
pears to have intended to establish the great principle that contracts should be inviolate. The constitution, therefore, declares

JANUARY TERM, 1.847.

325

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

that no State shall pass any, law impairing the obligation of con-tracts." (p. 206.)
The whole matter of contracts, - what may, and what may not,
be the subject of agreement, -the
competency of parties, -the
form of the contract, - the manner of the discharge,- are all left
within the range of State legislation ; subject only to the qualification, that when a contract, valid according to the laws in force at
the time, is once made, no State shall pass any law to change, to weaken, -to
"impair," in any respect, the obligations by
which the pdrties have bound themselves. If .the State have not
attempted such interference by passing a law, - no matter what
errors the courts may commit in their endeavour to ascertain the
meaning of the parties, the terms and obligations of their contract, - the party aggrieved can find no protection, under this clause
of the federal constitution. He must look for relief to the constitution and laws of his State, and if they fail him, it is-his misfortune,
to which he must submit; but such defect in the constitution and
laws of the State furnishes no ground upon whichl he can invoke
the interposition of this court, whose function, under this clause of
the constitution, is not to supply the defects of State tribunals," but
to check any attempt of the law-making power of the State to
retroact upon past contracts and impair their obligations. The
point is almost too clear for argument, especially since the authoritative exposition of the meaning of this provision afforded by the
decisions of this court in Sturges v. Crotvninshield, 4 Wheaton,
122, and in Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 213 ; Which, it is
respectfully submitted, are conclusive of .-the question. See also
Bronson v. Kinzie et al., .1 Howard, 311, and McCracken v.
Hayward, 2 Howard, 608. The highest' judicial tribunals of
the States of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New York have, in
like manner, declared that if the law be in force at the time when
the contract is made, it cannot have the effect of impairing its obligation, and is, therefore, obnoxious to no constitutional objection.
Blanchard v. Russell, 13 Mass. R. 16 ; Betts v. Bagley, 12 Pick.
R. 572 ; Smith v. Mead, 3 Conn. R. 254 ; Mather v. Bush, 16
Johns. R. 237; Wyman v. Mitchell, I Cowen, 321. So de-'
cided, also, by the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio in 1821,
in the case of Smith v. Parsons, 1 Ohio R. 236. The opinion of
the court, pronounced by Judge Burnett, contains a full and able
exposition of the principle, that statutes in existence when' the contract is made are not within the -constitutional prohibition. 'See
also Belcher et ux. v. Commissioners, &c., 2 McCord, 23 ; In
re Wendell, 19.Johns. R. 153.; Sebrig v. Mers'ereau, 9 Cowen,
345, 346 ; Hicks v. Hotchkiss, 7 Johns. Ch. R%. 308- 313 ;
Blair v. 'Williams, 4 Littell, 38, 39, 43-46 ; Golden v. Prince,
3. Wash. C. C. R. 318, 319; Johnson v. Duncan, 3 Martin's
Louisiana R. 531 ; 1 Cond. Louisiana ]t. 161, 162.
v6L. v.

28

326

SUPREME

COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

The truth is, the only question as to the impairing effect of
statutes that can arise in this case is, whether the act of the legislature passed on the 1 th day of February, 1829, - the charter,
impaired the provisions of the act of the legislature in relation to
banks passed on the 28th, Oay of January, 1824. The- Supreme
Court. of Ohio declared that the act of 1829 "did not impair the act
of 1824 ; that it left it just as it was, -in full operation as to this
bank, as well as to other banks. - It held, that all that the charter
did, in respect to a failure of the bak to redeem its notes, was,
not to relieve it of. the general liability which attached to all banks,,
under the law of 1824, but, leaving that act in full force, to provide " additional" security that the bank would fulfil its engagements to the public, and so subserve the purpose of its creation.
How, then, can this dourt, in the exercise of the narrow jurisdiction
over State tribunals to which it is confin'ed, reverse the judgment
of "the Supreme Court of Ohio, even if it were admitted that any
error had here intervened ?
Again; the question being merely a question as to the meaning of two statutes of Ohio,, in pari materia, when taken together,
this court, according the principle settled by its repeated adjudications, will be guided by the construction adopted by the highest judicial tribunal of the State. The Supreme Court of Ohio siinply
decided, that when the legislature of that State employs, in relation
to a bank, the language contained in the fourth section of this charter, it intends to subject the bank to the provisions of the act of
1824, precisely as if, in totidern verbis, it were so expressly declared. In the case of'Elmendorff v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 159,
Ir.. Chief Justice Marshall says: -"
This court has uniformly
professed its disposition, in cases depending "on the laws of a. particular State, to adopt the construction which the courts of that State
have'given to those laws. This course is founded on the principle,
supposed to be universally recognized, that the judicial department
of every government, where such department exists, is the appropriate organ.for construing the legislative acts of that government.
Thus no court in the universe, which professed to be governed by
principle, would, we presume, undertake to say' that the court of
reat Britain, or of France, or of any other nation, had misunderstood their own statutes, and therefore erect itself into a tribunal
which should correct such misunderstanding. We receive the construction of the couits of the nation as the true sense of the-law,
*and feel ourselves no more "atliberty to depart from that construction, than to depart from the words of the statute. On this principle, the construction given by ihis court to the constitution and
laws of the United States is received by all as the true construction ;
and, on the same principle, the construction given by the'courts of
the several States to the legislative acts of those States is received
as true, unless- they come in conflict with the constitution, laWs, or

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

327

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Execu-tors.

treaties of the United States." Among the many other cases to
the same effect are United States v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124;
Green's Lessee. v. Neal, 6 Peters, 291.
Now, if it would not have been unconstitutional for the legislature
to have provided b.7 the charter expressly, in so many words,
that the plaintiffs, in error, on default' in the redemption of their
notes, should be subject to the six per cent. given by the act of
1824, as well as to the twelve per cent. i additional" thereto, it.
surely was not unconstitutional for the Supreme Court of the State,
to which alone belongs the right of interpreting the langpage used by
the legislature, to hold that the terms contained in the 'fourth section
of the charter did express just that thing, - to declare that the legislature, by the act of incorporation, had said that this bank shbuld be
subject to the six per cent. of the act of 1824,.as well as also to the
twelve per cent. ' as additional" thereto.
The Supreme Court of Ohio having decided that the act of 1824
is by the legislature referred to in the charter and made part of it,
and the legislature having full constitutional power to do so when it
passed the act of incorporation, when it made its contract with
the plaintiffs in error, how can it be that the recovery of the defendants in error, in the Supreme Court of Ohio, is obnoxious to
any constitutional objection ?
The plaintiffs in error ask this court to wrest from the judicial
tribunals of the States the right of expounding the statutes of their
own legislatures, - to dc wvhat Mr. Chief Justice Marshall says "no
court in the universe, which professed to be governed by principle,
would undertake to do," - erect itself into a tribunal to correct
the alleged misinterpretations of their own statutes by the judiciary
of the States.
Unless the construction of the State court make the legislature
to do an act which the legislature cannot constitutionally do, - if
the legislature might rightfully have done precisely what the interpretation of the State court says it did do; - can it be possible
that there is any violation of the constitution ?
The Supreme Court of Ohio has only decided that the legislature of that State, by the act of incorporation of the plaintiffs in
error, did what it had an undoubted constitutional right to doh-_
incorporated in the charter the provisions of the act of 1824, and
added to the penalties which it provided in case of suspension of
specie payment .
Indeed, the learned counsel for the plaintiffs in error (who'has
furnished me with his printed brief.) admits the soundness of the
opinion in Ogden v. Saunders, as applied to a contract to -which
individuals alone are parties. But he insists that.a different rule
should obmin where the State is one-of the contracting parties, that, in the eye of the constitution, the properties of a contract as
between individuals do not belong to an dct of incorporation passed

328

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of. Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

by the legislature of a State.
Well, this may be so. But it.
occurs to me, that this is dangerous ground for him to tread. I
had always supposed that the whole basis of the decision of this
court in the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, by which
charters were impaled within the protection of this constitutional
provision, was, that. the charter was similar to, - identical with, - a
contract between individuals. To establish this, the arguments of
the learned counsel and the reasoning of the court in that case
were all directed. Every argument of the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error, which tends to make good a difference between a charter and
an ordinary contract, directly assails the soundness of this leading
case, without which the plaintiffs in error have no place here in
this court ; - for the foundation of this writ of error is, that this
charter is a contract, and as such Within the protection of the convstitution of the United States.
The learned counsel for the plaintiffs in error also says, that
"undoubtedly contracts may be .impaired by errors of the judiciary ; and that it is not for such errors that resort can be had
to this court from State tribunals." IHe admits, "that if a contract
be impaired, by the application, on the p]art of the court, of some
legal principle, or by misconstruction of the terms of the contract, a
case does not arise for the jurisdiction of 'this court." " But,"
says he, "if the contract is impai'red by the application of a State
law, then the jurisdiction does attach."
The admission amounts to this, - that the State court may impair
the contract, by the misapplication of a legal principle, or by the
misconstruction of the terms of the contract, and yet the case not
fall within the jurisdiction of this court. But, if this same error be
committed, 'under pretext of a law of the Stale, even preexistent to the contract, the case is within the jurisdiction. According to this, if there had never been any such law in existence
as the act of 1824, and the court had rendered precisely the same
judgment as that now presented in this record, the error would, by
the counsel's own admission, be beyond the reach of this court.
There would then be the case of " misconstruction of the terms of
the contract," - of "1 misapplication of a legal principle,".- which
he concedes to be an error for which the judgment is not amenable
to this court ; and still he says, that because the mistaken " legalprinciple," which the court below improperly followed, was the
pre6xisting statute of 1824, instead of some other legal principle,
this court may interpose to reverse the -judgment. The same
judgment might have been rendered by the Supreme Court of Ohio,.
and any other ground assigned for it than the act of 1824, - although no better in judgment of law. than that, both being equally
erroneous,- - and, by the admission of learned counsel, it could not
be impeached in this court for error.
If the State - court had the power to render the judgment, it is

JANUARY

TERM, 1847..

329

Commercial Bank of Cincinati v. Buckingham's Executors.

sufficient. The question with'this court, whose power over State
tribunals is limited, is, whether the judgment can stand, without
carrying out, in accordance with the legislative intent, a law of the
State passed to impair a contract. If it can, then there is no error here for the correction of this court, It is only where a law is
passed to operate upon existing-contracts, and where the decision of
the State court is ", in favor of the validity" of such law, that jurisdiction to reverse is vested in this court. It. matters n6t how erroneous, in other .respects, the opinion of the State court may be.
A wrong ground assumed for its judgment is no cause for reversal by this court, unless that ground be solely that the State court
has made itself instrumental in giving effect to a law of the legislature, which, in its enactment, was levelled against an existing
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 368 ; MeKiney et
contract.
al. v. Carroll, 12 Peters, 66 ; McDonogh v. Millaudon, 3 Howard,
693.
It cannot be, in rerum -natura,that the passing of a law can
impair a contract, unless the contract be in being when the law
declare that contracts are,
is passed. To hold otherwise, -to
by this provision of the constitution, withdrawn not only from all
future, but also from all past legislation, - is to sweep from the
States all legislative power over the subject-matter of contracts.
If the legislature cannot pass laws to operate, in futuro, upon
charters subsequently granted, then, as it is conceded that' corporations cannot be affected by any laws enacted after the grant of the
charter,. corporations are indeed supreme. Charters rise independent of all law. Well may learned counsel say that they are a
"Claw untG themselves"; for beyond the few meagre provisions
embodied, in them, they stand exempt from all legislative, power
and control.
The learned counsel for the plaintiffs in error, in his endeavour to
maintain the position that the constitution extends to the improper
application, by the State court, of a preexisting law, observes that
the wrong is, not done by the passing of the law.- He says, that the
law does not, per se, impair the contract ; but that it is by. the cortcurrence of the act of the court with the act of the legislatuie
that the thing is affected.
If this -be so, what is the result ? Now, it was the intention of
the legislature, when this charter was granted, that the provisionp
of the act of 1824 should apply to it, or that they should not apply. If, in legislative intent, the statute of 1824 was to operate
upon this bank, - if the fourth section of the charter were, what' it
purports to be, "1additional ! to. that act, -then the law of 1824,
by the terms of the original compact between the State and the
plaintiffs in error, became 'part of the charter. It is parcel of the
contract itself; as much so as if set out in it at large. Of course,
then, there is no error, in the judgment ; for, upon this hypothesis,
28*

330,

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

'it only eiiforces the agreement of the parties, according to the terms
and true mea~iing of their contract.
If,-on the other hand, the legislature did not design that the law
of 1824 should apply, then there could be no " concurrence of the
act of the legislature- with the act of the court."
The " lawmaking and law-expounding authorities of the State " did not
" concur." This "double agency," of which he speaks, did not
"unite."
It was the sole, unauthorized act of the court ; an act,
too, not only not concurring with, but in direct violation of, the
legislati-e intent. The legislative and judicial acts, so far from being concurrent, were antagonis.
The wrong complained of is
,pure, unmixed judicial wrong. So far as' legislation is concerned,
all is right. That has not transcended its. power to strike at the
contract. The blow. comes from the judiciary alone ;.and it is not
less the sole act of the judiciary, because, to secure its aim, it
seizes upon an act of the legislature, and, wresting it from its true
design, gives it force 'and direction never contemplated by the
legislature.
• The whole complaint of' the plaintiffs in error bath this extent,
'nomore, - that the*court of Ohio, on looking into the contract,
with a view to-ascertain its meaning, mistook its terms, supposing
that the parties had adopted, as part of the chairter, the provisions
of the act of 1824 ; whereas a right interpretation of the contract,
as they claim it, excludes these provisions. That law was applied
tO the. case, because, in the judgment of that court, the parties had,
when the-contract was piltered ihto, made its provisions part of the
terms of ihe contract. The court simply declared, that, as the contract presented itself to the judicial mind, it was a contract incorporating into itself the provisions of the act of 1824, as claimed by
thedefendants in error, and not excluding-them, as claimed by the
plaintiffs in error. It was, ini short, nothing more or less than a
simple "misconstruction of the terms of the contract"; and upon
that, thel arned counsel tells us, "a case does not arise for the jurisdiction of this court."
Again, ihe-act of 1824 relates to the remedy. It is entitled,
SAn act to regulate judicial proceedings where banks and bankers
'are parties." By its express terms, it applies to " all actions
brought against any bank or banker-" Regarded in this light, it
has been held, in respect to this liability on suspension, applicable
even to charters "previbusly granted. Atwood v. -Bank of Chillidothe, 16-Ohio Rep. 526.
Indeed, the case of Brown v.-Pehobscot Bank, 8 Mass. Rep.
445, cited by the learned counsel for the plai'tiffs in error, - proceeding upon the obvious distinction which obtains between the
obligation of a contract and the -remedy, as repeatedly declared by
this court, -is
to' the same point. The Penobscot Bank was
chartered in the year 1805., In the-year 1809, the legislature of

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

331

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

Alassachusetts passed a general law, providing, that "from and
after the first day of January, 1810, if" any incorporated bank within this Commonwealth shall refuse or neglect to pay, on d6mand,
any bill or bills of such bank, such bank shall be liable to pay to
the holder of such bill or bills after the rate of two per cent. per
month on the amount .thereof, from the time of such neglect and
refusal." It was claimed, on the part of the Penobscot Bank, that.
the act of 1809, ".as applied to its charter," was repugnant to the
constitution.
The court say, that "if the act upon which the
plaintiff relied in this case was unconstitutional, and therefore
void, it must be by force of some specific provision in the constitution of the United States, or in that of this Commonwealth. But
none such had been cited at the bar, nor was any such known to
exist.. The incorporation of a banking company was a privilege
conferred by the legislature on the members.
Punctuality and
promptness in meeting every demand made on such an institution
are essential to its existence ; -and a failure in this respect, now that
bank-bills form, almost exclusively, the circulating medium of the
country, is a public inconvenience of great extent, and introductive
of much mischief. It was, therefore, a duty highly incumbent on
the legislature, by all means within its constitutional authority, to prevent and punish such a mischief, and this the rather, as these corporations received all their powers from legislative grants. The
provision made by the act under consideration was equitable and
wise, and the community is probably indebted to it for the correction
of an evil, which, at the time of passing the law, had increased to
an alarming degree. As it had no retrospective effect, there was
no ground for complaint on the, part of the banks, nor did it militate
9,,ainst any known and sound principle of legislation." (p. 448.)
In the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
696, Mr. Justice Story sayi, that "a law punishing a breach of
contract, by imposing a fdrfeiture of the right acquired under it, or
dissolving it because the mutual obligations- were no longer, observed, is, in no correct sense, a law impairing the obligations of the
contract."
Now, if the act of 1824 can apply to previously granted charters,
can there be a dc'ibt as to its appropriate, application to subsequently granted charters ? Such an act, passed after the charter, is
held valid, upon the ground that it does not impair any franchise
which the corporation may lawfully exercise under the charter.
Its object is to prevent an unlawful act, - a violation of chartered
duty. It takes away no vested right, unless the corporation has a
vested right- to disregard the great purpose of its being, a "vested
right to do wrong."
In no case is it held that a corporation is exempt from a general.,
law, passed dven after the grant of. its charter, which is remedial
in its character, and operates upon acts in futuro, unless the language of the charter Iperatively require it.

SUPREME COURT.
Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

How much more cogent is the act of 1824 in its application to
charters granted after its enactment !
How, then- under the simple clause of the constitution, relied
upon by the plaintiffs in error, can the jurisdiction of this court be
called .into exercise, to reverse, for such an error as this, if
etTor it be, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio ?
. I take the simple'language of theconstitution as I find it.:
, No
,State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The construction of the plaintiffs in error interpolates. As they
read the constitution, it declares, - "1 No State shall pass any law,
nor shall its judiciary make any decision, impairing the obligation of
contracts."
In Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 413, it is declared,
that "there is nothing in the constitution of the United States
which forbids the legislature of a State to exercise judicial functions," and in that case it was accordingly decided, that the constitution did not extend to an act which was of a judicial nature- although in the form of a law piassed by the legislature of a State.
And this was precisely in accordance with the decision made at an
early day in the case of Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386. See
opinions of Iredell, J., and Cushing, J. With much less reason can
it be claimed that a pure judicial act, done not by the passing of a
law by the legislature, but by the decision of a court, is within the
prohibition of the. constitution.
In reply to wiat is said, as to the case now before the court falling within the mischief which the constitution designed to remedy,
I have only to say, that, if the court here incline to go beyond the
plain language of the constitution itself, and look into the evils which
led to the insertion of this clause, as the history of the times discloses them, ample reasons will be found coming to the support.of
the position which I maintain.- See 4 Wheat. 205, 206.
Besides, in the case of Satterlee. v. Mathewson, 2 Peters,
381, thIs court held, that retrospective 9tatutes were not repugnant
to the constitution of the United States, unless they were ex post
facto (using those terms in their restricted sense, as confined to
criminal laws), or unless they impaired a contract; although of
like mischief with that against which ihe' constitution expressly
provided. And it was well remarked by Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, in the case of Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters,
563, that the "constitution was not intended to furnish the corrective of every abuse of power which may be committed by the State
governments."
This court will not feel inclined to enlarge the construction of
the constitution, in order to abridge the power of legislation belonging to the States, their highest attribute of sovereignty, by any im-'
plication extending this constitutional inhibition to all pre~xistiug
-

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

333

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

laws relating to the subject-matter of contracts. Of such latitudinarian construction, so startling to State power, the end cannot be
,3een from the beginning.
While this *court, in the exercise of that high function which sits
in judgment upon the validity of the legislative acts of a sovereign
State, has always sliown itself firm t9 maintain all just rights under
the constitution of the United States, it has also shown itself not
less careful to guard against trenching, by its.decisions, upon the
remnant of rights which that constitution has left to the States. So
cautious does it move, in the execution of this most delicate trust,
that it will not set aside -an act of the Igislature of-a State, as a void
thing, unless it appear clearly to'be repugnant to the constitution.
If its constitutionality be doubtful only, the doubt resolves itself in
-favor of the exercise of State power, and the act takes effept.
But I submit to the court, with great confidence, that, as to this
bank, it is clear that the State of Ohio has not, by the passing of
any. law, impaired the obligation of its charter contract ; and that
therefore, upon this record; no case arises to which the constitutional inhibition relied upon by the plaintiffs iii error can'extend.

MThr. Gilpin, for the plaintiffis in error, in conclusion.
The act of the General Assembly of Ohio of 11th February,
!829 (3 Chase's Ohio Stat. 2059), created this corporation for
banking purposes, declared its powers, duties, and liabilities, and
especially provided for the contingency of its suspending the payment in gold and silver of its bank-notes and deposits, by imposing
a penalty of twelve per cent. per annum, from the time of demand
And refusal. An act of the 28th January, 1824 (2 Chase's Ohio
Stat. 1417), had been previously passed by the same legislature,
making several general regulations in regard-to banks and bankers in
that State.; and, among them, providing for the same contingency,'
by imposing a payment of six per cent. per annum from the time
of suspension. This corporation suspended payment, and the defendant in error, holding a large amount of its notes, brofight suit in
the Supreme Court of Hamilton county, to recover the penalty.
Judgment was given in her favor in 'that court, for the principal of
the notes, and also eighteen per cent. interest, subjecting the corporation to the penalty provided by its Charter, and then, in addition, to that provided by the act of 1824. This judgment was
carried by appeal to the Supreme Court in baik of the State of
Ohio, being the highest court-of law in that State, and the plaintiffs
in error contended that it was erroneous, because it recognized the
validity of the act of 1824 as applicable to the charter of the corporation, and thus impaired the obligation of the contract made by
that instrument. At the hearing of the case the court were equally
divided in opinion on the cases assigned, and therefore, according
to its practice in such cases, the judgment of the inferior court was

334

SUPREME COURT.-

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

affirmed. No opinion was delivered by the Supreme Court in
bank, nor either of the judges. No authoritative construction of
that court has been given to the act of assembly on the point in
question.
The plaintiffs in error contend that this judgment should be reversed by this court, because- it is expressly founded on the alleged
validity of the act of 1824, as applicable to their charter ; and as
that charter was a contract between the State and the corporation,
its stipulatoins are thereby changed, and its obligation impaired.
The charter of 1829 is a contract,-to which the parties .on one
side are the State of Ohio and those claiming privileges reserved
to them by the State, and, oft the other, this corporation. It is a
contract with mutual benefits, not merely of a general kind, but
specific, for the State reserves to itself a certain portion of the
profits of the institution. It is such a contract as the constitution
of the United States meant to preserve inviolate in its stipulations.
It is not a legislative act, operiting on the transactionu of third
parties, or entering into or forming part of their contracts, by the
mere force of paramount legislation, but it is an agreement made by
the State itself, as a party, for equivalents exacted and received by
it frdm the corporation. It is, even more strongly than in the case
of a charitable institution from which the State creating it receives
no direct benefit, a contract to which the stockholders, the corporation, and the State are the original parties. " It is," in the words
of Chief Justice Marshall (Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4
Wheat. 518), " a c6ntract made on a valuable consideration. It
is a contract for the security and disposition of property. It is a
contract on the faith of which real and personal property has beAe
'conveyed to the corporation.' It is, then, a contract within the letter
of the constitution, and within its spirit also." It is a contract
" to be held as sacred as the deed of an individual." Waddell v.
Martin, cited 1 Peters's Dig. 481. The government which is a
party to it "can rightfully do nothing inconsistent with the fair
meaning of the contract it has made." Crease v. Babcock, 23
Pick. 340.
If it is a contract, how are its terms to be ascertained ? The
charter is the formal and deliberate act of both parties, reducing to
literal stipulations what they mutually agree to ; laws not introduced
form no part of it, except so far as they are general municipal laws
regulating all property ;'the laws that govern contracts between man
and man govern this ; in such a case, would not the written instrument.made by and between the parties be taken as the declaration
of their liability ? Nothing is better settled than that it would be.
Vattel, 2, 17, 263.; Co. Litt. 147 ; Parkhurst v. Smit, Willes,
332; Schooner Reeside, 2 Sumner, -567 ; Truman v. Lode,
11 Adolph. & Ell. 597 ; Kain v. Old, 2 Barn. & Cres. 634;
Thomas v. Mahan, 4 Greenleaf, 516. It is true, that written con-

JANUARY TERM-4 1847.

335

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

tracts do not contain all the municipal regulations necessary to their
execution. These are tacitly embraced in 'them, Not so, however, where the State is a party to the contract, and those regulations would essentially vary. its terms. In such a caie the subsequent law is substituted for the pievious one, just as a subsequent
contract between th6 same individuals- relative to the same subjectmatter, would control, modify, or extinguish a former one.
The contract, then, betwserj the State of 6hib and the Commer
cial Bank of Cincinnati is that contained in the charter passed by
the former in 1829, and agreed to and accepted by the latter.
What is the obligation of it ? The State -obliged. the corporation
to pay a certain penalty in a certain contingency ;. for that it was to
be liable, and for no more ; if any law of -the State imjosed a
larger payment in that contingency, the obligation was changed,impaired. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 1224 Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheaton, 84 ; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton,. 257.
Is there any State law imposing a larger liability than the contract
contained in the charter-imposes ? It imposes a penalty of twelve
pei cent. for suspension ; that is the entire liability. The act of
1824, as construed. by the highest court of law-in the State, imposes
an additional penalty of sik per cent. more. This certainly 'ehanges
and impairs the obligation of the contract between the' State and the
bank, unless the two laws are 'so blended together as to be but one
regulation ; or the mere priority of existence of the ict of 1824
makes it necessarily a part of that of 1829 ; or the constitutional
pxohibition:does not apply to laws passed previously to the contract;
or the effect of the law upon the contract must result directly from
its own language, and not from its judicial construction or application. None of these exceptions can be successfully maintained in
the present case.
The act of 1824 is not blended with -that of 1829. The latter is
a written instrument, deliberately drawn so as to embrace the whole
subject-matter ; if the provisions of the act of 1824 were part of it,
this would have been so declared. The act of 1'829 is not a mere
legislative act, prescribing a municipal regulation affecting citizens
or corporations, but it is the agreement of the State itself, for its
own benefit, securing what it claims for itself, ahd imposing the conditions on the other contracting party. If there were clauses in the
act of 1824 less favorable to the State, could they be coiistrupd so
as to affect privileges it might reserve in thai of 1829 T If the
State had agreed, by a general law, in 1824, to advance its bonds to
the amount of a million to every bank,-and in 1829 agreed by the
charter t6 advance to this bank bonds to the amount of half a million, would it be contended that the former agreement was not
superseded by, but added to, the latter ? It would be easy to suggest similar contingencies. No. The charter is complete, so far
as regards all matters of mutual stipulation between the parties.;

336

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Exeautarm.

there is nothing in it which requires the act of 1824 to be-bleaded
with it.
Nor is any inference to be drawn, by legal construction, that the
parties intended to include the provisions of the act of 1824 in that
of 1829; because it was then in existence, and was not expressly
repealed. The facts of the case are at variance with such an implication ; so is every legitimate legal inference. Were this a
contract between individuals, - and so, in the cases before cited,
this court has construed such charters, - unquestionably the legal
presumption would be that the new superseded the. existing contract. Such, too, is the presumption in legislation ; .a subsequent
provision by law for the same subject-matter is d substitute for a
previous one. General laws are so construed ; where penalties are
imposed, they are not treated as cumulative ; where different remedies are given for the same money, both cannot be resofted to, but
one or' the other must be chosen. Titcomb v. Union F. & M.
Insurance Company, 8 Mass. 333; Bartlet v. King, 12 Mass.
545; Adams v. Ashby, 2 Bibb, 98; Morrison v. Barksdale, 1
Harper, 103 ; Smith v. The State, 1 Stewart, 506 ; Stafford v.
Ingersoll, 3 Hill, 41 ; Sharp v. Warren, 6 Price, 137 ; United
States v. Freeman, 3 Howard, 564 ; Daviess v. Fairbairn, 3 ibid.
644; Beals v. Hale, 4 ibid. 53. Besides, there can be no inference
founded on a general legal principle which is to prevail against an
inference derived from the law in the particular case. The act of
1829 provides for the entire case 'of suspension of payment of notes
and deposits in gold and silver. Even the same court recognized
it as so doing, when it was before them on another occasion.
State v. Commercial Bank, 10 Ohio, 538. The only expression
contained in it,, which can be cited as at variance with this view, is
the imposition of the increased interest as "additional damages,"
which, it is contended, should be construed to be in addition to that
imposed by the act of 1824. But the language does not justify this
construction ; the imposition of the increased interest not .merely
on notes, but on deposits, which are not provided for in the act of
1824, is inconsistent with it; why double the rate, if not to substitute one for the other ? it was to be an increase of interest, not a
penalty imposed, as is shown by the express lafiguage to that effect
in the charter of the Franklin Bank, qf which the provisions on this

point are the same. 3 Chase's Ohio Stat. 2078. Nor do judicial
interpretations of corresponding provisions warrant such a construction. Hubbard v. Chenango Bank, 8 Cowen, 99 ; Brown v. Penobscot Bank, 8 Mass. 448 ; Suffolk Bank v. Worcester Bank,
5 Pickering, 106 ; Suffolk Bank v. Lincoln Bank, 3 Mason, 1.
It-is not denied that there are many cases in which laws, existing at
the time of making a contract, will be regarded by courts as necessarily forming a part of it. But it is nut so where the State is a
party to the contract ; where the law to be construed is itself the

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

3a7

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

contract ; where it is not apparent that the parties must have contemplated such an incorporation of previous laws. 3 Story's Com.
on the Constitution, 247 ; 1 Kent's Com. 395. ThereL is no decision of this court on the effect of an existing State law on a
contract made by the State itself; every one relates to cases of
contracts bptween third persons ; yet even, in these it has always
been held that it must appear that the existing law was intended to
be embraced, either from a reasonable interpretation of the terms,
of the contract itself, or from the place where it was made, which
justifies the infererce of intention that the kx loci Was to govern.
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 122; Clay -v.Smith, 3
Peters, 411 ; Baker v. Wheaton, 5 Mass. 509, 511. The whole
series of decisions in regard to the effect of State insolvent laws.,n
contracts and as 'being considered to form, by implication, a part
of them, rests on this view of the subject, as does the application
of the lex loci to the construction of them.
The prohibition of the constitution had for its object to prevent
the obligation of a contract being impaired by any law whatever, no
matter whether its passage was before or subsequent to the contract.
The inquiry is, Does a contract, exist ? What is its obligation ?
Does a law impair it.? If there is in existence a contract, valid in
itself, such as the parties had a right to make, not embracing by its
terms or by just legal implication the provisions of other laws, then
any State law that changes or controls it, or can be so applied by
the judicial tribunals of the State as to change or contrbl it, is contrary to the language and intention of the constitutional prohibition,
no matter when such law bears date, - no matter whether its operation be prospective or retrospectiver, - on contracts existing whdn it
was passed, 'or enterbd into subsequently. In the first plan of the
constitution there was no such clause'; it was introduced to prevent
any interference by laws of the States with private contracts. .It
was proposed to restrict this to such State laws as were "retrospective," but that was not'adopted, mad the existing limitation was
made with a view to reach the declared object, - 11 a, restraint upon
the States from impairing the obligation of contracts" in any way.
2 Madison Papers, 1239, 1443, 1445, 1552, 1581. The reference to a future action,- that no State shall pass" such laws,
relates to the date of the constitution ;.it is a prohibition future as
to that instrument, not to the contract to be affected. No State
law, after the constitution should be adopted, was to impair the
obligation of a contract ; this was the, object of the -prohibition.
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 388 ; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4
Wheaton, 06 ; MoMillau v. McNeill, 4 ibid. 212 ; Ogden v.
Saunders, 12 ibid. 255.
It is evident, that, if such be the object of this prohibition of the
constitution, then to make it effectual ii must operate, not only
wherer.ts violation is the 'result of the direct language of the law, but
'

VOL. V.

338

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cinrcinn.ati v. Buckingham's Executors.

wherever the law is so applied by that branch of -the State government -its judiciary -which enforces the -law, as to produce this
result, to violate this prohibition. A legislative act seldom, perhaps never, violates a contract proprio vigore ; it is the judgment,
of a court, applying the act to the contract, which does so ; the
law impairs the contract only by force of the judgment ; it is indeed
the law that does so, but only because the judicial application of it
has given that construction and application to its provisions. If
this were not so, then the law would in every case be cinstitutional,
or the reverse, in iiself, and not by reason of its application. Yet
this will hardly be contended. *Suppose a law confers special privileges on a corporation, and a .subsequent general law forbids corporations to possess such privileges ; the latter law is in itself constitutional, but if the judiciary so applies it as to infringe the privileges
of the particular corporation, is it not a: violation of the constitutional'prohibition ? On what other .principle do the decisions of
ihis court, in regard to State insolvent laws, rest ? They have been
held to be constitutional or the reverse, not in themselves, but according to the manner and circumstances to which they are applied
by the judgment of a court ; if applied to contracts made within
the State enacting it" an insolvent law is held to be valid ; if applied
to those made without the State, the identical law is held to. be
unconstitutional, or, to speak more correctly, the judgment of the
court founded upon it is reveised, as making the law violate the,
constitutional -prohibition. When this whole question was so elaborately discussed by this court (Ogden v. Sauiders, 12 Wheaton,
255), no point received more unequivocally than this the concurring
assent of the judges ; they affirmed the validit- of the. State insolvent law, as not contrary to the constitutional prohibition in its
operation on the contract, because it was made and to be executed
within the State that passed the law, and on that ground Judge'
Johnson placed the ultimate judgment of the court. 12 Wheaton,
368. In one case (Clay v. Smith, 3 Peters, 411) the contract
was made in Kentucky, the suit was instifuted in Louisiana, a discharge under an insolvent law of the latter was pleaded and admitted,
because it appeared that the-plaintiff, though a citizen of-Kentucky,
had received a dividend from the syndics in Louisiana; had-not
that circumstance occurred, the application of the law of Louisiana
to the Kentucky contract would have been held to impair its obligation. Was this the law itself, or its application, which constituted
the violation of the constitutional provision ? There is scarcely a
prohibition of the constitution that might not be evaded by State
lawi, if the evasion must arise necessarily from the law itself, and
not from its application by the State courts. Cannot a State pass
a general law placing certain restrictions on the travelling of coaches
and stages, but not referring in terms, or by necessary implication,
to the mail-coapch, and if the highest court of the -State recognizes

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

339

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

,he law to be valid as applied to such a coach, is not that a violalion of the constitutional reservation to the United States exclusively of maiters connected with the post-office ? Would the decision
of thk State court be affirmed by this court, or, what is equivalent
thereto, jurisdiction over it be declined, on the ground that it was a
mere judicial misconstruction of the State law ? A Staie may pass
a law requiring, in general terms, the captain of a vessel to adopt
certain sanatory regulations on board, to carry certain lights, to steer
in a certain way so as to avoid collisions, and impose a penalty for
neglect ; but if the highest court of the State sustaimed a suit to recover the penalty, when it appeared that the violation of the law was
in the course of a foreign voyage, and not within the local jurisdiction of the State vhere its authority to enforce police regulations
prevails, would not that judgment be subject to the revision of "this
court ? A State has a right to borrow money ; it may pass a law
authorizing its executive to'do so on: the faith of the State ; if in
so doing he should issue '4 bills of credit," and the highest court
of the State should sustain their legality as founded on that law; would
this court refuge to revise that.judgment, on the ground that the law
itself was constitutional, and that its application to the particular case
was a mere act of the court, not contemplated by the State legislatare, and therefore not violating the constitutional prohibition ?
Again ; it is not alone on the language itself of the State law, it
is on its construction also by the State court, that the supervising
judgment of this tribunal will be founded. The decisibn of a question arising under a local law of a State by its highest judicial tribunal is regarded by this court as final, not because the State tribunal
has power
bindfixed
it, but
has been deliberately
heldin and
decided
thatto "a
andbecause
receivedit construction
by a State
its
own courts makes a part of the statute law." Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Shelby '. Guy, 11 ibid. 361 ; Green v.
Neal, 6 Peters, 298. We have here a local law of the State of
Ohio; referring to the law itself, we find it to contain nothing which
impairs the obligation of the contract between ithe State and the
Commercial Bank of Cincinnati, nothing which violates the-constitutional prohibition ; it has received a construction by the highest.
State tribunal which makes it a law impairing- that contract, iiolating that prohibition ; that construction has therefore become "a part
of the statute law," as fully as if it were in terms contained in it; the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio is founded upon the lawas so
construed ; this court, in revising that judgment, would not, under
its own well-considered decisions, give a different construction to a
local law ; much less would it do so when the effect would be to
sanction, under the form of a judicial proceeding, an infringement
of a constitutional prohibition.
The legislation of Congress also seems to have contemplated the
enforcement of this constitutional prohibition, where its infringement

340

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

arises from the judicial construction of a State law. The constitution prohibits the passage of a State law impairing the obligation of
a contract. It iea;ves to Congress the legislation necessary to enforce this prohibition. How has Congress enforced it.? Not by
reserving to iiself a direct supervision of the State laws ; not by
subjecting'them to a direct supervision of the Supreme Court of
the United States ; but by requiring that they should first be passed
upon and construed by the highest court of the State itself, and
that, if the judgment of that court so construes them, or -gives them
such validity, as to make them repugnant to the constitutional provision 1 then' this court may reverse such judgment, and by so doing
make void such an application of the law. What could be the
object of this act of Congress, if it was not to sanction a revision
of a judgment of the highest court of a State, founded upon its constil:ction of a State law, -upon its holding a State law so construed
to be-valid, - whether that construction was in itself right or wrong,
whenever the direct effect of such -judgment was to impair, under
color of that law, the obligation of a contract ?
Even the language of the constitution itself is more comprehensive than if it meant to prohibit an infringement of its provision-by
a mere legislative "act " ; it seems to use the term Rtlaw" in a
broader sense, as if it was the complete and sovereign action, of a.
State, commenced by its legislature but consummated by its judiciary. 'In another section, where it draws the distinction between
the actions of these branches of the State government (art. 4, § 1),
it iefers to "' public acts" and "judicial proceedings." Did it
not mean by a "law" the union of the two ? In the clause of the
ordinance for the government of the Northiest Territory, intended
to embrace the same object as that of the constitution, and adopted
by the Continental Congress almost at the same time, it was declared that no such law ought ever to be made "or have force," as if any enforcement of it, whether legislative, executive, or judicial, was as much to be guarded against as its formal enactment.'
1 Statutes at Larg&, 51. .
Is not the case now before the court exactly that which was adverted to by Judge Trimble, as within the intent and operation of
the-constitutional prohibition (12 Wheat. 316), where a law might
in itself produce no effect prohibited by the constitution, yet would
do so when applied to a case differently circumstanced ? He held
that the "1 only necessary inquiry"1 was, Whit. was "its effect and
operation" in the suit upon the particular contract, - whether that
effect was to impair its obligation ? What has been the effect and
operation of applying the act of 1824 to the suit'which has been
brought'upon this contract of 1829 ; has it not been to impair its
obligation ? Such, too, is the whole scope of Chief-Justice Marshall's remarks in the same case (12 Wheat. 337), where he denies
that the constitutional prohibition is confined .to " such laws only as

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

341

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's Executors.

operate of themselves." He says that the law itself, at its passage,
may have no effect whatever' on the contract, and asks, -"
When,
then, does its operation (in violation of the constitutional prohibition)..
commence ? We answer, when it is applied to the contract ; then,
and not till then, it acts on the contract, and becomes a law impairing its obligation. V Can language lay down a legal principle more
directly applicable to the case before the court than this ? can there
be any doubt that the principle itself is in entire harniony at once
with the language and the object of the constitutional prohibition ?
,It is submitted, therefore, that there is no circumstance to withdraw this application of the act of 1824 to the charter of the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati from being included within the constitutional prohibition as impairing its obligation. If this has been established, then it is clear that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Ohio, recognizing that act as valid when so applied, may and
ought to be reversed by this court ; for it appears by the record
that the validity of the State law was drawn in question on that
ground in the State court, and its validity there affirmed. Miller V.
Nichols, 4 Wheat. 311; Wilson v. Blackbird, 2 Peters, 250 ; Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 409 ; Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peter4,
292; Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters,_391.
Mr. Justice GRIER, after giving the statement of the case
which is prefixed to this report, proceeded to deliver the opinion
of the court.
The first and only question necessary-to be decided in the present case is, whether this court has jurisdiction.
To bring a case for a writ of error or an appeal from the highest
court of a, State, within the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act,
it must appear on the face pf the record, - 1. That some of the
questions stated in that section did arise in the State court ; and,
2. That the question was decided in the State court, as required in
the section.
It is not enough, that the record shows that "the plaintiff in
error contended and claimed" that the judgment of the court itu-paired the obligation of a contract, and violated the provisions of the
constitution of the United States, and "that this claim was overruled
by the. court" " but it must appear, by clear and necessary intendment, that the question must have been raised, and must have been
decided, in order to induce the judgment. Let us inquire then,
whether'it appears on the face of this record, that the validity of a
statute of Ohio, "on thi ground of it, repugnancy to the constitution or laws of the United States," was drawn in, question in this
case.
The Commercial Bank of Cincinnati was incorporated by an act
of the legislature of Ohio, passed on the 1 th of February, 1829,
which provided,,that, in case that the bank should at any time sus29*

342

SUPREME COURT.

Commercial Bank of Cincinnati vt,Buckingham's Executors.

pend payment, and refuse or delay to pay in gold or silver any note
or bill on demand, it should be "'liable to pay, as additional damages, to the holder of such notes twelve per cent. per annum on
the amount thereof, for the ime during which such payment shall be
refused or delayed." By a previous act of 24th of January, 1824, all
banks had been declared liable to pay six per cent. interest on their
notes, when they had refused payment on demand, from the time of
such demand or refusal, " or from the time that such bank or banker
shall have ceased or refused'to redeem his notes with good and lawful money of the United States." The only question which arose
on the trial of -the case was, wh'ether the bank was liable to pay
the twelve per cent. in addition to the interest of six per cent. given
by the act of 1824, or only the twelve per cent. imposed by the
act of incorporation.
Did the .decision of this point draw in question the validity of
either of these statutes, on the ground of repugnancy to the constitution of the United States ? Or was the court merely called upon
to decide on their construction ?
We are of opinion that there cail be but one answer to these questions, and but few words necessary to demonstrate its correctness.
It is too plain for argument- that, if the act of incorporation had
stated, in cleat ahd distinct terms€ that the bank should be liable, in
case of refusal to pay its notes, to pay twelve per cent. damages in
addition to the interest of six percent. imposed by the act of 1824,
the validity of neither of the statutes could be questioned, on account of repugnancy to the constitution. But the allegation of the
plaintiffs' counsel is, that the statute of 1824 was not intended by
the.legislature to apply to their charter, and that the court erred in
their construction of it ; and therefore made it unconstitutional by
their iisconstruction. A most strange conclusion from such premises.
But grzmt that the decision of that court could have tbis effect;
it would not mhke a case for the jurisdictidn of this court, whose aid
can be invoked only where an act alleged to be repugnant to the
constitution of the "United States has been decided by the State
court to be valid, and not where an act admitted to be valid has been
misconstrued by the court. For it is conceded that the act of 1824
is valid and constitutional, whether it applies to the plaintiffs' charter
or not ; and if so, it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the
question submitted to the court and decided by them was one of
construction, and not of validity. They were called upon to decide
what was the true construction of the act of 1829, and what was
the meaning of the phrase "1additional damages," as there used, and
not to declare the act of 1824 unconstitutional. If this court were
to assume jurisdiction of this case, it is evident that the question
submitted for our decision would be, not whether the statutes of
Ohio are repugnant to the constitution of the United States) but

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

343

Scott at a]. v. Jones.

whether the Supreme Court of Ohio has erred in its construction
of them. It is the peculiar province and privilege of the State
courts to construe their own statutes ; and it is no part of the functions of this court to review their decisions, or assume jurisdicti6n
over them on the pretence that their judgments have' impaired the
obligation of contracts. The power delegated to us is for the restraint of unconstitutional legislation by the States, and not for the
correction of alleged errors committed by their judiciary.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this case must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

'from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

JoHN SCOTT AND CARL BOLAND, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN JONES,
LESSEE OF THE DETROIT YOUNG MEN'S SOCIETY, DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.

An objection to the validity of a statute, founded upon the ground that the legislature which passed it were not competent or duly organized, under acts of Congress
and the constitution, so as to pass valid statutes, is not within thd cased enumerated in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and therefore this court has
no jurisdiction over the subject.
It order to give this court jurisdiction, the statute the validity ofwhich is drawn in

question must be passed by a State, a member of the Union, and a public body
andduly
conormity"
to its
and laws.
If owin
public obedience
bodies, not
organized
orconstitution
admitted into
the Union, undertake, as
such
conduct
would
have
be reached,
either
States, to pass laws which tomight
encroach
power
on by
thethe
Union
or of
itgranted
the Unionpowers,
to put

within insurrections,
which these bodies
down
or hy are
thesituated
aidinaryand
penal
laws of the States or Territories
acting.
But their measures are not exdiminabe by this court on a writ of error. They are
not a State, and cannot pas bstatutes
cithin the meaning of the Judiciary Ant.

THIS case was brought up by a writ of.error, issued under me
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan.
It was ae ejetnoent brought in the Circuit Court for the county of

Wayne, State of Michigtau (State court), by the Detroit Young
Men's Society against the plaintiffs in error, to recover lot No. 56,
in section one, in the city of Detroit.
On-the trial of the cause, in December, 1841, the plaintiffs below
offered in evidence, -

