168

SUPREME COURT.
Gear v. 'Parish.

entitled to. The saving clause may not be regarded as necessarily
leaving a proceeding of this description open to him. A question
might also be raised, whether the' judgments are not so effectually
enjoined, as to prevent their enforcement againsf property of the
judgment debtor not in controversy in this suit. At all events,
we 'think it due to the appellant, and to justice, looking at the
nature and character of the transaction and proceeding as developed
in te'pleadings, that the case should be cleared of all doubts and
dispute upon this point. We shall, therefore, reverse the decree,
and remit the proceedings to the court below, with direction that all
further proceedings on the three judgments and executions be stayed,
as it respects the property Seized and in question, but that the appellant have liberty to file a cross bill, and take such further proceedings thereon as he may be advised.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be and the 'same is hereby remanded
to the aid Circuit Court, with directions to that court that all further proceedings on the tbree judgments and executions be stayed, as
it respects the property seized and in question ; but that the appellant have liberty to file a cross bill, and to take such further proceedings thereon as he may be advised ; and that such further proceedings be had in this cause, in conformity to the opinion*of this
cour.t, as to law and justice shall appertain.

HEzEKiu

H.

GtAR, APPELLANT, V. THONAS J. PARIsH.

In this case, the pleadings and proofs show that a mortgage executed by the'debtor
to the creditor was really for an unascertained balance of accounts, which the sum
named in the mortgage was supposed to be sufficient to cover.
'As it did not prove to be sufficient, and the creditor obtained a judgment against the
debtor for the residue, the payment of the sum named in the mortgage was no
reason for an injunction to stay proceedings upon the judgment.
THIS was an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Wisconsin, sitting as a court of.chancery.
Parish filed a bill in the District Court of Iowa County, Territory of Wisconsin, for the purpose of compelling Gear to enter
satisfaction of a certain mortgage executed by the former to 'him, or
to reconvey the premises therein, charging, that it had been'fully
paid and satisfied ; and for the purpose, also, of a perpetual stay of

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

169

'Gear v. Parish.

a certain judgment onfessed, and entered up in favor of Gear
against Parish.
The mortgage was executed on the 27th of April, 1836, and was
given to secure the payment of $ 4,200, four months after date ; and.
the bill charged that the whole amount, with interest thereon, had
been paid on the 1st of August, thereafter, and a receipt taken for
the same ; that Gear had refused to deliver up and cancel the said
mortgage, or reassign the premises unless the complainant would
pay, in addition, the amount of a certain judgment that had been obtained against him, and which, he charged, was given for part And
parcel of the money secured by the mortgage, and of course satis-'
fled with it.
The defendant, in his answer, set up that previously to the execution of the mortgage the parties had been engaged in extelpsive
business transactions with each other; 'that he had, at different times,
advanced large sums of money to and incurred many liabilities for the
complainant; and that the mortgage in question was given to secure
the payment of such an amount as complainant would be found-indebted in on the final adjustment of their accounts. That no settlement had taken .place or balance been struck between them ; but that
defendant had subsequently ascertained that the sum of $ 1,562.38
was justly due him, over and above the amount secured by the mortgage. That this demand was placed in the hands of an attorney for
collection, whereupon the complainant confessed the judgment in
question, with a stay of execution for six months.
The defendant further answered, and admitted that the mortgage
had been fully paid and satisfied ; but denied that he had refused to
reconvey the mortgaged premises. On the contrary, he had executed and delivered to the complainant a release of all his right and title
to the premises, and which had been accepted as satisfactory:
The complainant put in a replication, and the parties went to
their proofs.
There were but two witnesses examined, one of them present at
the execution of the mortgage, the other at the giving of the judgment.
Hamilton, who was present at the execution of the mortgage,
states that he was at Galena in the spring of 1836, when the
parties were engaged in closing thuir business; that the amount on
book due Gear exceeded $ 3,000, besides other charges and accounts outstanding, the amount of which was not then ascertained.
That it was agreed a mortgage of $4,200 should be given, which,
as was supposed by both parties, might be sufficient to cover the
whole of the indebtedness ; but that a settlement was to be made
thereafter, and the exact balance ascertained, and to be adjusted accordingly, whether it should exceed or fall hort of the sum specified in the mortgage. Neither party was to be concluded as to the
amount; that was to depend upon the final adjustment of the accounts.
VOL. V.

15

170

SUPREME -COURT.
Gear v. Pa~ish.

Mr. Turney, the attorney who gavethe judgment for Parish,
states that he was consulted by him at the time a suit was threatened
for the recovery of this balance, claimed as due over and above the
mortgage; that at the request of Parish he had an interview with
the' attorney of Gear on the subject, when it was agreed that, if
judgment was cbnfe~sed for the amount claimed, the mortgage
should be given up and cancelled, and aill errors corrected, if any,
on ascertaining the balance between the parties ; that the judgment
was given with this understanding.
.Upbnthis state of the pleadings and proofs, the District Court
decreed that the injunction which bad been previously issued,
enjoining the defendant, Gear, from collecting his judgment against
Parish, should be made perpetual, and that the-complainant recover
his costs of suit.
On"an appel to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by the defendaht, the decree was .affirmed., with costs. The case was
breht here on an appeal from that decree.
The cause was argued by JIr. Breese, for the appellant, and
,ir. 4fay,-fcr the appellee.
Mr.Breese contended that the decree was erroneous, because
the answer of Gear denied all the material allegations of the bill ot.
which the injunction was allowed, and they were not sustained by
the depositions of Hamilton and Turney.
Mr .May,for the appellee.
'The priincipal questions presented for adjudication in this case
are the following- :-I. Does the bill,'answer, and proofs disclose a case in which
equity can relieve ?
II What is the nature and .extent of the relief to be granted in
this case ?
As to the first proposition, it is submitted that this is a case in
which relief can alone be obtained in a'court of equity. It may be
viewed as an application to compel the specific performance of an
agreement, which is exclusively the province of a cburt of equity ;
for at law redress may be had after a wrong is done, but equity can
interpose and prevent the commission of a wrong. 1 Story's Eq.
Jurisp., § So. The relief sought in this case is the cancellation
of a deed, ando'eqtity alone can afford this relief. I Johns. Ch.
R. 520.
But in this case a judgment at law is sought to be rendered, inoperative, and all proceedings thereon stayed and restrained. It is
true that a judgment at law is conclusive between the parties thereto
when the merits have been passed upon, and unless reversed operates as an estoppel ; but when, in the prdcuring of such judgment,
fraud or misrepresentation, or any -description of malafides has been

JANUAR-Y

TERM, 1847.

171

Gear v, Parish.

practised, equity will grant relief. 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp., §§ 885,
887 ; I ibid. § 192 ; 1 Fonblanque Eq., b. 1, ch. 1, § 3, note f
(3d Am. ed. pp. 28, 29). The only way in which a defendant can
reverse or annul a judgment at law, is by a writ of error ; but when
a judgment is ,obtained by confession, he is without redress at law,
for confession takes away error.
But where the plaintidf's attorney, in an action at law, made an
agreement with a defendant that if she would confess judgment he
would levy an execution, and satisfy the judgmenit out of the property of another defendant, keeping her harmless ; and upon such
agreement a judgment was confessed, but the plaintiffs neglected
and refused tc comply with the agreement, a court of chancery
decreed a perpetual injunction of the judgment, and, on appeal, this
court affirmed the decree. Union Bank of Georgetown v. Geary,
5 Peters, 99. It is submitted that this case is in all respects in
point and conclu'sive) in this cause, so far as the question of jurisdiction and power to relieve is involved. Equity will relieve against
a judgment obtained at law by confession. 3 Harris & Johns. 568.
The remaining inquiry in disposing of the first question is as to
the case made out by the complainant. The allegationsof the bill
in relation to the original transactions are, in rhost material respects,
admitted by the defendant, and are also fully proved by the deposition of Win. S. Hamilton, who states that the books of account of
Gear were produced, -showing Parish's account, and that the
amount of $4,200 was considered by all the parties as amply sufficient to cover all contingencies. The testimony of John Turney
fully sustains the averments of the bill in relation to the compact
and terms on which Parish confessed the judgment. But it may be
argueA that inasmuch as the defendant, in his answer, denies the
allegations and equity of the bill in relation to this compact or
agreement, it should be sustained by stronger proof in order to
merit relief. It is conceded that, in equity, where any matter is
averred by the complainant in his bill which is material, and the
same matter is positively denied by the defendant in his answer,
then the answer will prevail, unless the bil is sustained by two witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances ; but it is
contended and insisted, that in this cause the -principle is in no way
applicable, and can have no bearing whatever. Equally as clear as
the foregoing principle Qf chancery practice is another, that if a
defendant, by his answer, introduces new matter, not responsive to
the allegations of the bill, such new matter must be proved by other
means (12 Peters, 190), or it cannot avail, and it may prejudice him
by evincing a desire, on his part, to evade and lead off to matters
foreign to the points in issue, or if a defendant's answer contains
contradictory, unreasonable, or irreconcilable statements, or makes
averments which are disproved by written instruments on the same
point, or if it'positively deny charges of which in the very nature of

172

SUPREME COURT.
Gear v. Parish.

the thing the defendant could have no personal knowledge, then theq
testimony of one disinterested witness, with corroborating circumstances, will prevail, and in some instances the court will treat the
answer as a nullity, disproving itself, and the bill will prevail with
one witness., 9 Cranch, 160 ; 2 Johns. Ch. R. 92 ; 5 Peters,
1ll ; 4 Monroe, 174 ; 1 Munford, 373. In this case, Gear, in
his answer, positively denies that Parishlwas induced to confess
the judgment by the promise and undertaking of Mr. Hoge. Now
it requires no argument to demonstraie that this was ka matter of
which Gear could have no knowledge whatever. He was not
present, and even if he had been informed, still' he is unwarranted
in stating positively, as of his own knowledge, what were or were
not Parish's motives. Moreover, he avers directly that the mortgage or deed was never acknowledged or recorded, and yet the instrument itself, which was then in his possession, directly contradicts
his averment, although it may be of but little importance whether
this instrument were acknowledged and recorded or not, still a
defendant, who has the means of correct knowledge vrithin his exclusive control, is bound and expected to answer truly in all things,
and if he make statemeuts in his' answer, and at the same time
presents that which absolutely disproves those statements, he
thereby throws suspicion on his answer, and affects and Aaints it
credibility.
If, then, the statements of the answer in regard' to the agreement
between Hoge and Parish afe unreasonable and can have no effect,
we then have the averments of th e bill (which is sworn to) sustained
by testimony of Turn6y, and the admissions of Hoge as proved
b~y Turney. And strong corroborating circumstances are observable in the supineness of Gear in this matter. Hoge was his attorney, admitted to be such in the answer, and resided in the same
place with him, and if the agreement really was not such as stated
by Parish, was it not very easy for him (Gear) to obtain Hoge's
deposition disproving the bill ? Yet he speaks' positively, as of
his own knowledge,' of transactions and motives of which he could
know nothing, except from information, and- neglects to use the
proof (if any such existed) of these things, which any reasonable
man would have certainly resorted to. In this relation, the case
from 5 Peters, 111, is very much in point ; in that case, as in this,
the agreement was with the attorney, and the defendants in that case
denied the agreement with their attorney, of which they could have
no positive knowledge; in this case the defendant has pursued the
same course. The agreement between Parish and Hoge, the appellant's attorney, mgst be considered as proved. True, it is aenied by Gear in his answer, hut, as has already been shown, he
knew nothing about. it, and his denial amounts to nothing. It was
expressly and exclusively the consideration in confessig the judgment, and it was a valuable consideration to Parish, as hm alleges, in

JANUARY TERMJ, 1847.

173

Gear v. Parish.
his bill, and appears by the testimony of Turney. It would have
enabled him to free the title of the lands he had sold, and convey
them, and, it may be argued, receive a pecuniary advantage by it;
for this consideration Parish relinquished all defence in. the suit at
law. He states that he owed Gear nothing, that he had a good
defence.
In the language of this court, in 5 Peters, 114,-" It is unnecessary to examine whether this defence would have been available
or not ; the validity of the contract did not depend upon that question. It is enough that the bank considered it a doubtful question,
and that they supposed they were gaining some benefit'by foreclosing all inquiries on the subject ; and the complainant, by precluding
herself from setting up the defence, waived what she supposed
might have been of material benefit to her."
Gear did not fulfil this-agreement, made by his attorney, Hoge;
he states, as the reason for his failure, that he could not find the
mortgage. But it is afterwards produced, and it must be presumed
to have come from his custody. The promise and inducement to
the confessing the judgment was not kept by Gear, or realized
by Parish. Was not this transaction, then, an imposition or fraud
upon Parish ? If so, all proceedings on the judgment ought to
have been restrained. Did not Gear make, by his attorney, an improper and unfair use of his possession of the mortgage, which had
been fully discharged by Parish, as appears by the receipt, and the
terms of the mortgage itself to induce Parish to confess the judgment. I Schoale &'Lefroy, 205.
It is plain that Gear intended to hold the mortgage until the pretended balance was paid. That, as he recollected it, "said deed
was given to secure this defendant the payment of the sum of $ 4,200,
and such other sum as the complainant might be indebted :to this
defendant."
Again, there is no proper jurat to the answer in this case, - the
answer appears to have been " sworn to and subscribed " before a
proper officer ; but it is submitted that this cannot, by correct chancery practice, be taken as a sufficient jurat (I Harrison's Chan.
Prac. 218 ; 1 Turner and Venable's Chan. Prac. 544) ; there is
not'that certainty as to what the deponent swears to, whether of his
knowledge or of his belief (9 Cranch, 160) ; so that an indictment
for perjury might be sustained if the deponent swore, falsely. If
this position be correct, then the answer in this case is, as in the
cage in 5 Peters, 99, merely tantamount to the general issue at law,
and the material averments of the bill, so far as they are denied
by the answer, are fully proved by Hamilton and Turney, and sustained by every reasonable deduction from the eircfimstances.
But in relation to the second question presented by this cause,
which is as to the nature and extent of the relief to be extended,
it is submitted that the main relief sought by the complainant is the
15 *

174

SUPREME

COURT.

Gear v. Parish.

cancellation of a deed. The bill, however, prays for a discovery
and general relief, and the weight and current of authority is, that
when equity obtains cognizance for the purpose of discovery and
injunction it will retain the cause in order to do ample justice in'
cases such as this, where a matter of accountis involved. I Story's
Eq. Juisp., § 64 ; 2 Johns. Cases, 431 ; 3Conn. 141 ; 10 Johns.
595 ;" 17 Johns 388 ; 12 Peters, 188.
It was no sufficient reason for dissolving the injunction, that
Gear afterward offered to give up, release, or cancel the mortgage ;
the fraud or imposition had been then completed. His faith had
been violated. The injury to Parish was then inflicted. His damage may have been suffered. He had been compelled, by Gear's
own conduct, to bring him into a court of equity. Being there,
Gear was in no wise injured, he had the fullest and fairest right and
opportunity to claim his demand, and if just have it allowed.
The relief given in this case should therefore go farther than the
cancellation and pass upon and decide th e unsettled account between
the parties. If there was, as Gear understood and recollected, an
unsatisfied balance charged on the mortgage, that very question was
presented for the consideration of the court ; as the bill prays to
have " the mortgage indenture cancelled, on paying the balance of
the mortgage money, if any," &c. The account between the parties was then fairly presented to the court.
The appellant had ample time and opportunity to sustain his account,' if any he had, to show that the balance claimed was omitted
by mis:ake or othervise in the ;ettlement of their accounts in 1836,
when the mortgage was given to secure the fill sum claimed, and
mor ; but Gear did not offer any evidence to prove the balance of
his account.
Besides, the account on which the judgment was confessed was
very properly, under the circumstances, to be reviewed ; it was,
according to the testimony of Turney, a judgment upon terms,
that is, " any errors in the account sued on would be corrected by
Gear."
I The defendant made the indebtedness of Parish, upon which the
judgment was obtained, a substantive allegation.in his answer ; the
onn's probandi was with him to prove these allegations, and undoubtedly if he had proved his claim .he chancellor would have decreed
payment in accordance ivith equity and justice. But when he neglected to do so, having ample time and opportunity, and being presumed to know his legal rights, and allowed the cause to be heard
by the court without the sha'dow of any such proof, the fair and
just inference is that he could not prove any further indebtedness
against Parish, especially when Hamilton's testimony shows that
the books of account of Gear were produced on the original settlement, and they then presented no such indebtedness ; but, on the
contrary, all parties appeared satisfied that $ 4,200 w6uld cover the
whole claim,

JANUARY TERM,, 1847.

175

Gear v. Parish.

Mr. Justice NELSQN delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to discover any foundation for the decree of the'
court below.
The pleadings and proofs narrowed the question
down to the simple inquiry as to the force and effect of the judgment between the parties, which had been Tendered upon confession. The answer appears to have removed all further complaint
about the refusal of Gear to cancel the mortgage 'and disencumber
the premises, as the subject is not-carried into, nor made a part of,
the decree. That is confined to the order enjoining the defendant,
his agents and attorneys, perpetually from -collecting the judgment.
The sole question, therefore, is, whether or not, upon the pleadings and proofs, the appellant is justly entitled to enforce the payment of this money.
The bill of complaint admits, and the answer reiterates the
admission,.that the mortgage was executed to secure the payment
of an unadjusted balance of accounts arising out of extended business
transactions. The exact sum being, at the time, unascertained, an
amount was agreed ifpon, and carried into the mortgage, supposed
to be large enough to cover any balance that might be found due.
Neither party was to be concluded by the mortgage, or the
amount agreed upon. The actual indebtedness was to depend upon
a. future settlement of the accounts.
The proofs confirm this view, and further establish, that the
judgment was confessed voluntarily and advisedly; for a balance
ascertained, and claimed by Gear to be due over and above the
mortgage ; and that th6 only reservation made, at the time, was the
privilege 6f correcting errors -in the adjustmefit of the accounts, if.
any should be made to appear thereafter.
The judgment was not given, as in the case of the mortgage, for
an unascertained -balance; and therefore a security, simply, for
whatever sum the plaintiff might thereafter show to remain due and
unpaid. A 'specific sum was claimed; as the true balance 'of the
accounts, and a suit threatened. The judgment was confessed for
this sum, subject to the' right, of Parish to reduce the amount. Failing -or omitting to do this, the whole amount was collectable. The
burden lay upon him to show the errors, if any; -that he assumed,
according to the very terms upon which he consented to confess the
judgment ; and as no errors were shown, or are even pretended, in
the case before us, it is clear the plaintiff is entitled to the whole
amount of his judgment and to execution for the same ; and that the
court below erred in entertaining the bill and awarditg the injunction.
We shall, therefore, reverse the decree of the court below, with
costs, and remit the proceedings, with direction to dissolve the injunction, and dismiss the bill with costs of suit.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

176

SUPREM'E .COURT.
In

the Matter of Metzger.

from the Supreme Court for the Territ6ry of Wisconsin, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here or-.
dered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Supreme
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs,
and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded'to.the said
Supreme Court, with directions to that' court to dissolve the injunction in this case, and to dismiss the bill of the complainant with
costs of suit.

IN

THE MATTER

oF NIcHoLAs LUCIEN METZGER.

The treaty with France, made in 1843, provides for the mutual surrender of fugitives from justice, in certain cases.
Where a district judge, at his chambers, decided thot there. was sufficieit causa
for the surrender'of a person claimed by the French government, and c,mmitted
him to custody to await the order of the President of the United States, this
court has no jurisdiction to issue a habeas corpus for the purpose of reviewing
that decision.

,Mr. Coxe moved for a habeas corpus, according to the following
petition, which he read, and also the decision of the judge below.
"To'the Honorable, the Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United'States :"The petition of Nicholas Lucien Mretzger respectfully sheweth, - That be is restrained'from his liberty, and is now a prisoner
in jail, and under the custody of the marshal of the Southern District for the State of New York, and that he has been committed
to such jail and custody, and is now confined and detained therein,
under and by virtue-of a warrant and 'order of the Hon, Samuel
R. Betts, district judge for the Southern District of New York,
as an alleged fugitive irom justice, pursuant to the provisions of
the convention signed between .the United States and the French
government, on the 9th'of November, 1843.
"CThat annexed hereto is a.copy of the order, under and by virtue of which your petitioner has been apprehended and committed,
and is nosy detained in custody.
" Wherefore, your petitioner prays, that a writ of habeas corpus
may issue from this honorable court, to be directed to the marshal of the .Southern District of the State of New York, or to such
other persons as may hold or detain your petitioner. under and
by virtue of said order, commanding him or them to have the.
body of your petitioner before this honorable court, at such time
as in said writ may be specified, for the purpose of ifiquiring into
the cause of commitment of your. petitionek, and to do and abide
such order as this honorable court may make -in the premises.
"And your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
METZGER.

