JANUARY TERM, 1847.

53

McAfee v. Doremus et al.

MORGAN MCAFEE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. TnO1xAS C. DoREmus, JADIES
SUYDAI, CORNELIUS R. SuYDAII, AND JOHN NixoN.

By the laws of Louisiana, a notary is required to record in d book kept for that

purpose, all protests of bills made by him and the notices given to the drawers
or indorsers, a certifed-copy of which record-is made evidence.
Under these statutes, a deposition of the notary, giving a copy of the original
bilJ, statinga demand of payment; a subsequent protest and notice to the drawers
and indorsers respectively, is good evidence.
The original protest must be recorded in a book. Its absence at the trial is therefore sufficiently accounted for.
Where a joint action against the drawers and hidorser -was commenced under the
statute of Mississippi (which statute this. court has heretofore, 16 Peters, 89,.
held to be repugnant to an act of Congress), the plaintiffs may discontinue the
suit against.the dstwers and proceed agdnst the indorser only.

This case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court 6f the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
On the 8th of December, 1839, the following bill of exchange
was drawn.

$4,000.

Locopolis, Miss., De . 8th, 1839.
Ninety days after date of this my first of exchange (second -of
same tenor and date unpaid), pay to the order of Morgan McAfee)
four thousand dollars, valu6 received, and charge the same to
account of your obd't servants.
CLYMbER, POLK, & Co.
Messrs. KEys & ROBERTS, New Orleans.
The firm of Clymer, Polk, & Co., consisted of Isaac Clymer,
Benjamin C. Polk, William C. Ivins, and Hiram Clymer.
McAfee indorsed it, and it came to .the bands of the defendants
in error, merchants and partners in New York, trading under the
firm of Doremus, Suydams, aid Nixon.
When the bill became due it was not paid, and was protested under the circtimstances set forth in the first bill of exception.
In May, 1842, Doremus, Suydams, and Nixon brought a suit
against the four makers and also agdinst McAfee, the. indorser.
The action was a joint one, as required by a statute of Mississipi,
passed on the 13th of May, 1837, which was as follows.
" Section. 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of
Mississippi, that in all actions founded upon bills of exchange and
promissorynotes, the plaintiff shall be compelled to sue the drawers
and indorsc"s living and resident in this State in a joint action ;
and such suit shall be commenced in the. county. where the drawer
or drawers reside, if living in the State ; and if the drawer or drawers bq dead, or reside ovt of the State, the suit shall be brought in
the county where the first indorser resides.
" Sec. 2. Be it furtherenacted, that in all case4 where.any drawer,
acceptor, or indorsershall have died before the'commencement-of
5*

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee v. Doremus et al.

the suit, a separate action maybebrought against the representatives
of such drawers, indorsers, and acceptors.
"Sec. S. Be it further enacted, that the court shall receive the
pdlea of non-assumpsit and no other, as a defence to the merits, in
all'sults brought in pursuance of this .act ; and all matters of defence
may be given in evidence under the said plea. And it shall be
lawful for the jury to render a verdict against part of the defendants,
and in favor of the others, if the evidence before them require such
a verdict, and the court shall enter up the proper judgment in such
verdicts against the defendants ; which judgments and verdicts shall
not be reversed, annulled, or set aside for want of form.
"Sec. 4. Be it further enacted, that new trials shall alone be
granted to such defendants as the verdicts may have been wrongfully
rendered against; and judgments shall be entered against all the
other defendants in pursuance -of the verdict;
" Sec. 5.Be it further enacted, that the clerk shall issue duplicate
writs to the several counties where the various defendants -may
reside, and shall indorse on all executions the names of the drawers and iidorsers, particularly specifying the first, second, and third
indorsers.
"Sec. 6. Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the
sheriff, in all cases, to make the money on the executions, out of
the drawer or drawers, acceptor or acceptors ; and in ub case shall
a levy be made on the property. of any security or securities, in-dorser or indorsers, unless an affidavit from some credible person
be made and filed among the papers in the case, setting forth that
the principal or principals have no property in this State, out of
which the plaintiffs money and costs can be made ; and in such
event the plaintiff may proceed with the executions against the defendants next liable, and so on until his executions be satisfied.
" Sec. 7. Be it further enacted, that no sheriff, or other officer,
shall take more than one forthcoming bond, in any case, for the
same cause of action.
"S ee. 8. Be it further enacted, that any plaintiff shall have the
right to discontinue his suit against any one or more of the indorsers
or securities, that he may sue in any joint action, before verdict, on
payment of the costs that may have accrued by joining said defendant in such suit.
"Sec. 9.' Be itfurther enacted, that in all suits brought under the
provisions of this act, the defendants shall not be allowed to sever
in their pleas to the merits of the action, and no plea of abatement
shall be allowed to be filed in any cause, unless affidavit be made
of the truths of the facts pleaded in the plea of abatement.
"Sec. 10. Be it further enacted; that if any plaintiff or plaintiffs
--shall cause to be levied an execution .on any security, or their indorsers" or their property, when the principal has sufficient property
in this 8tate-to satisF-such execution, the party so offending-hal"

JANUARY TERM, -1847.

55

McAfe'e v. Doremus et al.

be deemed a trespasser, and shall be liable to an action from the.
party aggrieved, and exemplary damages shall, in all such cases,
be awarded by the jury trying the same; Approved, May 13,
1837."
*This Statute was, in part, adopted by a rule of court in 1839,
as follows :-

" Rule XXX. The practice and proceedings m action at law,
by the laws of this State, and the rules of practice for the government of the courts of law, made by the late Supreme Court, where
not incompatible with the laws of the United States, the ruleswhich may be prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United
States for the government of this court, or with the existing rules
of this court, shall be considered the rules and practice of this
ccurt: provided; however, and it is hereby expressly understood,
that this rule does not adopt the whole of the act entitled ' An act
to amend the laws respecting suits to be brought against indorsers
of promissory notes,' approved May 13th, 1837 ; but that all of
said act, except the tenth section thereof, is, and it is intended to
be, adopted."
At June term, 1842, McAfee pleaded the general issue.
In June, 1843, three of the four drawers of the bill having beer
served with process and the remaining one not, the suit was dis
continued as to the drawers, and continued against McAfee alone.
In December, 1843, the cause came on for trial, when a verdict
was found for the plaintiffs. During the trial, however, the two
following bills of excepi" "iwere taken.
First Exception.
Be it remembered, that, on the trial of this cause, on this 8th
day of June, 1844, the plaintiffs in this case offered in evidence a
bill of exchangein' thesewords :$4,0001.
Locopolis, JMiss., Dec. 8th, 1839.
Ninety days after date of this 'my first of exchange (second of
same tenor and date unpaid), pay to the order of Morgan McAfee,
four thousand dollars, value received, and charge the same to acCLYM R, POLK, & Co.
count of your ob't servants.
Messrs. Knys & RoERTS, Ni'w Orleans.

Having indorsed thereon the following names, three of which
were erased "1Pay to Doremus, Suydams, & Nixon, or order. Morgan
McAfee, Charleston P. 0., Miss.'?
"1A. H. Davidson, Charleston P. 0., Miss.; G. Davidson,
Charleston P. 0. Miss. ; M. L. Cooper & Co."
The plaintiff then proved that the names of A. H. Davidson
and G. Davidson had been erased beiore the maturity of the bill.
.The plaintiff then offered -inevidence the copy of the-eiginal pro-

56

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee

v. Doremus et al.

test, accompanied by the deposition of the notary public, in these
words :

United States of America, Eastern District of Louisiana, City of
New Orleans, ss : Be it remembered, that on this thirtgenth day of May, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-four, before
me, M. M. Cohen, a commissioner duly appointed on the 19th of'
April, 1842, by the Circuit Court of'the United States in and for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, under and by virtue of the acts
of Congress, entitled, "An act for the more convenient taking of
'affidavits and bail in civil causes depending in the courts of the
United States," passed Feb. 20, 1842, and the act of Congress,
entitled " An act in addition to an act entitled ' An act for the
more convenient taking of affidavits andbail in civil causes depending in the courts of the United States,' "1passed March 1, 1817,
and the act, entitled " An act to establish the judicial courts of the
United States," passed Sept. 24, 1789, personally appeared 1. B..
*Cenas, a person of sound nind and lawful age, a witness for the plaintiff in civil suit now depending in the District Court of the Uited
States, in and for the Norihern District of Mississippi, wherein
Doremus, Suydams, and Nixon are laintiffs, and Clymer, Polk, &
,Co. (drawers), and Morgan McAfee (indorser) are defendants ; and
the said H. B. Cenas being by me first carefully. examined, and
cautioned, and sworn to testify the whole truth and nothing but
the truth, did depose and say, that he is a notary public, 'duly commissioned and sworn, in and for the city and parish of New Orleans,
State of Louisiana ; that he held said office on the tenth day of
March, A. D. 1840, on which day, at the reqi est of the Commercial Bank of New Orleans, holder of the original draft, pf which
the following is a copy, to wit.: $4,000.1
Locopolis, ,Miss., December 8th, 1839.
Ninety days after date of this my first of exchange (second of
same tenor and date unpaid), pay to the order of Morgan McAfee
four thousand dollars, value received, and charge the same to account of your obedient servants.
CLYMER, POLK, & Co.
Messrs. KEYS AND ROBERTS, Neiv Orieans.
MORGAN McAPEE, Charleston P. 0.
Indorsed:- Messrs. M. D. CooPER & Co.
He, the said notary, presented said draft to a clerk of the
drawees at their counting-room (said drawees not being in), and
demanded payment thereof, and was answered that the same could
not be paid'; whereupon he, the said notary, did publicly and
solemnly protest said draft for non-payment, and of protest did give
notice to Clymer, Polk, & Co., drawers, and to Morgan McAfeei
indorser, and M. D. Cooper & Co., indorsers, by letters to the

JANUARY
McAfee

TERM, 1847.

v. Doremus

57

et al.

drawer and first indorser severally written and addressed, informing them of said protest, and that the holders looked to them for.
payment ; which letters he, the. said notary, did direct to the said
drawers and said first indorsers, respectively, as follows : - the one
for Clymer, Polk, & Co., drawers, .to them at Locopolis, Mississippi,- and that for the said Morgan McAfee, the first indorser, to
him at Charleston P. 0., Mississippi; and by delivering that- for
the last indorsers to themselves.
Which lettbrs he, the said
notary; did put into the post office at New Orleans aforesaid, on the
day and date of said protest. All of which was done under the
hand of said notary, and recorded in piesence of competent witnesses and in due form of law.
-The notary's fees for said protest and notices amounted to
43.50.
The document A., M. M. Cohen, United States commissioner, is sworn to by me,
H. B. CENAs, .Notary Public.
United States of America, North dircuit and Eastern District of
Louisiana, City of New Orleans, ss :I, .M. M. Cohen, a commissioner duly appointed on the 19th
of April, 1842, by the Circuit Court of the Uited States for the
Ninth Circuit and Eastern District of Louisiana, under and by
Virtue of the acts of Congress, entitled " An act for the more- convenient taking of affidavits and bail in civil causes depending in the
courts 'of the United States,". passed February 20th, 1812, and the
act of Congress, entitled "An act in addition to ah act entitled
'An act for the more convenient taking of affidavits and bail in
civil causes depending in the. courts of the United States,'" passed
March 1st, 1817, and the act entitled " An act to establish the
judicial courts of the United States," passed Septemtber 24th.
1789, do hereby. certify, that the reason for taking the foregoing
depositidn is, and the fact is, that the witness lives in New Orleans,
State of Louisiana, more than one hundred miles, from Pontotoc,
State of Mississippi, the place of trial of the cause for and in which
said deposition is taken and is necessary. I further certify, that no
notification was made out and ser7ed on the defendants, or adverse
parties, their agent or attorney, to be present at the taking of the
ddposition, and to put -interrogatories, if he or they may think fit,
and that no notification of the time and place of taking the said
deposition was made out and served on said defendants or adverse
parties , because neither the said adver.e parties, nor any attorney
or agent of said adverse parties was, at the time of taking said
deposition, within (100) one hundred miles of the said city of New
Orleans, the place of taking the said depositior. I further certify,
that, on this thirteenth day of May,. A. D. 1844, 1 was by"the witness, who is of sound mind and lawful age, and the witness was by

"58

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee

v. Doremus et aL

me.carefully -examined and cautioned, and sworn to testify the
wh6le truth, and the deposition wasby-me reduced to writing in the
presence of tfe witness - and after carefully reading the same to the
witness; he subscrihed the same in my presence.
I have retained the said deposition in my possession -for the.
purpose of 'sealing up; directing, and forwarding the same with
my own hands to the court for which the same was taken.
I further certify, that I am not of counsel or attorney 'to either of
-the' parties in said ,deposition 'an&,eaption named, or in any Way
intir'ested in the event of the said =civil cause named in the caption.
-In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, the
words ". are plaintiffs" being first interlined on 'page 1,ante.
M. M. coErf,
[L. s.]
.U. S. Commissioner Ci'cuit avid District Court United States for
the .Ndinth Circuit and"Eastern' District of Louisiana.
"Cotiaissioner's fee,
$10" 00 1Paid -byplaintiffs.
Notary for copy aniaexed,' 2 59 5
N ."N, CohEir, 'U.,S.C..
'United State3 of Americat State of Louisiana :
I By this'public iTstrunlent 'f- protest be it known that, on this.
tenth, day of Marchi in the "year -one ih6usand eight hundred and
fbrty, at the request of the Commercial Bank of New Orleans,
holder ef'-te 'orginal diraft, whereof a true copy is on the reverse
hereof writteil, Ii Hilary Breton Cenas, a n'otary public in apd for.
the,city and parish of New .Orleans, State. of Louisiana aforesaid,
duly commissioned and sworn, presented said draft ioa'clerk of the'
drawe~s -at their counting-room said drawees not being' in), and
demanded payment thereof, .and was answered that 'the same, could
not'be-paid. "Whereupon I,the said notary, at the request afore-,
said, -did protest, and by these presents: do publicly and solemnly
.protest,"as well against the -drawer or maker of the. said draft, as
against aUlothers whom it doth 'or may concern, for all exchange,
reftchang, damages, -costs, charges,. and interests, suffered or to
be'suffred, for.want of paymnent of the said draft. Thus done and
protested in the preience of Law. Dornan and Ernest' Grauet,
witnesses.'
In testimony whereof, I grant these presents under my signature,
ft .
and the iWpress.of my seal of office, at the city of New
Orleans, oirthe'day and year first above. writtbn.
', H. B. CEOrs, .Notary Public.
Original sigfned -TLAw. D1o)RNAN,
'

Bt- GRANqET.

$4,000.
Loco lis, JXf.s., Dec. 8th, 1839.
Ninety dayaftr ddte, bf this my fist of exchange (secoiid of
0mne tenof adat ai'),
pay fo'the order of'Mprgan-MeAh'e

JANUARY
McAtee

TERM, 1847,

59

v. Doremus et al.

four thousand dollars, value received,, and charge the same to account [of] your obedient servants.
CLYMER, POLK, & CO.

Messrs. KEY.s
RoURTS, X6"ew Orleans.
Indorsed, - Morgan McAfee, Charleston P. 0, Miss., M. D.
Cooper & Co.
I, the undersigned notary, do hereby certify that the parties to,
the draft, whereof'a true copy is embodied in the accompanying act
of protest, have been duly notified of the protest thereof by letters
to them by me written and addressed, dated on the day of said
protest, and served on, them respectively this day, in the manner
following, viz. by depositing those for the drawers and first indorsers. in the post office fii this city on the -same day as this 'pro-test, directed to them respectively as follows : that for the drawers,'
to themi at Locopolis,- Miss. ; and that for the first indorser, to himat Charleston P. 0., Miss. ; and by delivering that for ihe last
indorsers to themselves.
In faith whereof, I hereunto sign my name, together with Law.
Dornan and Ernest Granet, witnesses, at New Orleans, this llth,
day of March, 1840.
Oiiginal siged,-Law. Doman, E. Granet.
H. B. CENAs, .Not. Pub.
I certify the foregoing to be a true copy of the original protest i
draft, and memorandum of the manner in which the notices were
served on file and of record in my office.
In faith whereof I grant these presents, under my signature, and
the impress of my seal of office, at New Orleans, on this'
[L. s.] ninth day of November, in the year Qf our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and forty-three.
H. B. CENAS, ,Not. Pub..
Sworn to before me.
M. M. C6HEN, U. S. 0.

To the introduction of which copy the defendant by counsel,
objected, but such objection was overruled -by the court, and said
copy allowed to be read ; to which opinion of the courf the de-,
fendant excepted, -and this his bill of exceptions, before the -jury
retired from the box, was signed and sealed by the court, and or- dered to be made a part of the .record.
S. J. GHoLs'ON. [SEAL.]

Second Exception.
The gecond-bill of. exceptions. referred to the statute andl rule
abovementioned, and to the discontinuance of the suit against the
drawers of the bill, after three of them had been servea with prbcess. A motion was made in arrest of judgment, which was ovekruled by the court, to which overruling the second exception was
taken.

60

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee v. Doremus et al.

The cause was argued by Ir. Chalmers and JMr. Coxe, for the
.plaintiff in error, and by JXlr. Stanton and ,Mr. Z. Collins Lee, for
the defendants in error.
.Mr. Chalmers and .Mr. Coxe contended that the paper admitted
in evidence by the court below, purporting to be a copy of the
protest of the bill of exchange sued upon, was not duly proved to
have been a copy of the protest of the bill of exchange, but a copy
of an entry in the notary's book, and that it was not duly proved,
even as- a copy of the, entry in the book.
Secondly, if proved as a copy, it-was not admissible as evidence,
without laying ground for it by showing the loss of the original,
which was not done.
A protest Is, properly, speaking, a solemn declaration on behalf
of the bolder against any loss to be- sustained by non-acceptance
or non-payment (Story on .Bils, ยง 276, p. 301), must be in
writing, signed, and sealed by the notary (Chitty on Bills, 490,
642), and annexed to the bill itself, if it can be obtained, or otherwise a copy (Chitty on Bills, 362), with all the indorsements
transcribed verbatim. with the reasons given by the, party why be
does not honor the bill ; and this is so indispensably necessary, by
the custom of merchants, that it cannot be supplied by witnesses, or
oath of the -party, or in any other way, and, as is said, is part of the
constitution of a foreign bill of exchange, because it is the solemn
declaration of a notary, who is a public officer, recognized in all
parts of Europe, that a due presentment and dishohor has taken
place, and all counfries give' credit to his certificate of the facts.
Chi*tty on Bills) 490. Ii must be made according" to the laws of
the place where fhe payment ought to have been made. Story
on Bills, p. 105, ยง 278 ; Cbitty on Bills, 490. By the laws
of Louisiana, where this bill was payable, it is enacted, page. 41,
Ballard and Curry's Digest, Laws of Louisiana, that
" The notaries shall keep a separate book in which they shall
.hranscribq and record, by order of date, all the protests by -them
made, minutes of notices, &c., &c., made by them, which dac-:
laration, duly recorded. under signature of such notax and two witnesses," &c.
This book,.from. vhich thu copy admitted was obtained, is a new
transcriptionof the original protest, - a copy, wholly inadmissible
itself,withouf accounting for the non-production of the original, and
yet the court admitted a copy of this copy, without showing the
loss, destruction, or that the original was not within the control of
the party offering the copy. See Sebree v. IDorr, 9 Wheaton,
558 ; Brooks a. Mfar4:ury, 1J Wheaton, 78.
Secondly, the court below erred in overruling. plaintiff in error's
motion to arrest' the judgment. This -suit in the court below was

JANUARY TER-M,
McAfee

.v.

1847.

Doremus et

61

I.

commenced jointly against the drawers and-indorsers of the bil-of
exchange sued upon under and by virtue of the provisiols of an
act of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, and a'long count
of the declaration is framed -uponthat act, which provides' that "1in
all actions founded upon bills of exchange and promissory notes the
plaintiff shall be compelled to sue the drawers and indorsers living
and resident within the State in a joint action." Act of May 13,
1837, Laws of'Mississippi, 717 ; and by a rule of the District Court, of the United States for the State of Mississippi, this
act was adopted (see Rule XXX.), and, so far as it- is not
inconsistent with the laws of Congress and "the.fifles of practice
prescribed by the Supreme' Court of the United States, became
by that, rule the law of the court. This being the case.unless
the act of the legislature of Mississippi, in its application to this
case, was incompatible with the laws of Congress', or the rules
prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States, or the exiting rules of the District Court for Mississippi, the dismissal
entered as to defendants below, Isaac Clymer, William C. Ivns,
ond Benjamin C. Polk, the makers, and taking judgment against
McAfee, the plaintiff in error'and indorser of the bill sudd upon,.was
manifest error, for whibh the judgment should have been arrested.
See Wilkinson and Turney v. Tiffany, Duvall, & Cla., 5 Howard's
Mississippi Reports- 411. Was the act of -Mississippi, adopted
by the District Court 'in its application to this case, a violation of
the judicary act of 1789, eh. 20 ? The eleventh section of that
act gives jurisdiction -o the Circuit Courts of suits between a citizen
of the State where-the suit is brought and a citizen of another State,
and excepts ".any suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note, or other- chosen action in favor of an assignee, unless the suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the contents,
if no assignment had-been made except in cases of foreign bills
of exchange."- The foiindationof-this action was a foreign bill of
exchange, -and although th6 drawers and indorser all resided in the
State of Mississippi, it came within the exception of the act of Congress, and the District Court- neither enlarged or diminished the
jurisdictiou 'of the court by adopting the rule, nor is the rule in its
application to this case incomlatible with the laws of Congress, the
rules of practice prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United
States, or the existing rules of tbe District Court. The case of
Keary et al. v. The Farmers and Merchants' Bdnk of-Memphis, -16
Peters, 89, *was founded upon a promissory note, the makers and
indorser all living in Mississippi, and the attempt, under this rule,
to join them in the same action was pronounced by this court a violation of the judiciary act, in giving a jurisdiction to the District
Court which that act had not conferred, and that, therefore, in
that case the rule was void. Not so however in this case, - the
foundation of this suit being a foreign bill of exchange, the appliVOL. v.
6

62

SUPREME COURT..
McAfee v. Doremus et al.

cation of the iule violates no law of Congress, nor is it incompatible
with any rule prescribed by this court.
The rule established 'by the District Court, adopting the statute of
Mississippi; is of great value to the. citizens of that State; 'and, so
far as it can be made a plicable to the just jurisdiction of the District
Court of the United States in that State, sound.,public policy, respect for her public. functionaries, and the rights and interests of the
parties litigant in the federal tribunals of the State, appeal strongly
to this court to have the act fairly and fully executed.
Jr..Lee and .lffr. Stanton contended that the proof offered was
sufficient ; that the object of a protest was..accomplished in giving
the indorser notice ; that certified copies of a protest were generally admissible ; that a notary cannot serve the original protest upon
* ach one of the iildorsers ; that the absence of the original at the
trial was sufficiently dccounted for by its being on file in the notary's
otce, and cited Story on Bills, .301, 304; 20 Wendell, 82;
8 Wheaton, 333 ; 4 Term lep. 175 ; 2 Peters, 179.
As to- the second exception, they contendect that the plaintiffs'
living in New York hdd a right to ,sue the'indctser and drawers,
which right could not be taken away,, that they had a right to discontinue the aetion as they did ; that the plaintiff in error was
estopped from making this objection ; that this court has rejected
the statute of Mississippi, and cited 1 Peters, 78 ; 11 Peters,
83-85; 16 Peters, 94 ; t Howard, 343,
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before this court by a writ of error to the
District Court of the Northern District of Mississippi.
The suit- was commenced on a, bill of exchange against Isaac
Clymer, Benjamin C. Polk, William C. Ivins, and Hifaih Clymer,
late merchans and p artners in trade, under the firm and style of Clymer, Polk, & Co., makers,and Morgan McAfee, indorser. Theprocess was served on Polk and McAfee. *Thelatter pledded the general issue, and an alias summons was issued against the defendants
not served. 'This writ was served on Ishac Clymer and William C
Ivins'; and .at the succeeding June term the plaintiffs, by leave of
the court, discontinued the suit against Clymer, Polk, & Co., leav
ing McAfee, the indorser, the only defendant.
Oh the trial the plaintiffs offered the deposition of H. B. Cenas,
a notary public at'New Orleans; to prove a copy of the. protest,
which was objected to by the defendant; but the court admittbd the
evidence, aiid. this constitutes the first 9xception.
By ihe Lotilsiana acts of 1821 and 1827, the notary is required
to record, in a book kept for that purpose, all protests -6fbills made
by him and' the notices given-to the drawers or indorsers ; a certife copy.of which record is made evidence.

JANUARY-TERM, 1847.

63

McAfee v. floremus et al.

Under these statutes it is held, in Loulaiana,- that "1a certi.fie
copy of a protest is sufficient without piodubing the original."
Whittemore v. Leake, 14- Louisiana Reports, 394.
It is admitted that in respect to foreign bill* of exchange the
notarial certificate of proiest is of itself sufficient proof of the dishonor of a bill, without any auxiliary evidence.- Townsley v.' Sumrall, 2 Peters, '179. But the rule is differdnt, under the principles
of the dommon law, in regard to inland bills.
The protest offered. is certified, undertlie seal of the notary, " to
be a true copy of, the original protest, draft, and memorandun'of
the manner in which* the notices were served on file andxof record
in his office." But the depositipn of (enas, the notary, was relied
on as proving the protest and notice. The exception taken was
not to the deposition, but to the copy of the protest.
-It
is insisted that the deposition does not identify the protest, and
if it does, that it is not. competent to prove the copy without accounting for the non-production of the original.
In regard to 'the latter objdction," it 'appears from thi statutes
above cited, that the hotary- records the protest and the manner in
which notice was given, and this record is, in fact,'the original. It
is presumed that nothing more than a short.memorandum of"the demand and notice is taken, from which the redord 'is made in due
form ; so that there is, strictly, no orignal except that which is of
record.. And" a copy of this is made evidence by the statute.
Now thiWs stificienly accounts for the non-production of the original; and a sworn or a: certifi~d copy, is the only evidence of the
protest which'can be produced.
And we think that the copy of the protest was properly considered as a part of the deposition. It was offered in connection" with
it, and isreferred to as " Documnit A.," as no other meaning. can
be given to that reference.. The commissioner who took" the deposition states, the copy was aworn to before him, and the exception was
to the "1copy" and.not thmt'it was no part of the deposition: And
the original .being a matter of record, and-of course not within the
power of. the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court, a sworn copy was
admissible' as evidende.
After the verdict was rendered against McAfee, the indorser, a
motion was ihade in arrest oftjudgment'on the, ground that it appeared from the'returh of the fnaeshal, thw process had been, duly
served on three of the partners df.the firm of -Clymer, Polk, &
Co.", wh" were the -drawers of the bill, and that the suit had been
discontinued as to them;
which motioi the court overruled, and to
excepted.
which the defendant
, It .appears that 'the district judge, by a rule .ofcourt; adopted
nine of the first sections of the statute of. Mississipp, entitled "An
-act:to amend the laws'respecting -suit to be brought against indorsiers of prom7sory nptes," &c., apptoved.d;1t May-37, which re-

SUPREME COURT.

64

Walker v. Taylor et al.

quired suit to be brought against the drawers and indorsers of a bill
of exchange jointly. Under this statute the suit was brought
against the drawers and also the indorser of the bill.
This statute, as adopted by the district judge, was brought before
this cou t in the case of Keary and others v. The Farmers and Merchants' Bank of Memphis, 16 Peters, 89, in which the court held
that " the law.,of Mississippi is repugnant to the provisions of the,
act of Congress, giving jurisdiction to the courts of the United

States."
We see no objection, in principle or in practice, to the discontinuance of the suit against the drawers of the bill. Their liability
was distinct from that of the indorser: In no respect could the indorser be prejudiced by the discontinuance. As a matter of course
it was permitted at the cost of the plaintiffs.
In the case of Minor et al. v. The Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46, the~court held, that when the defendants sever
in their pleadings, a nolle prosequi ought to be allowed against one
defendant," that " it is a practice which violates no rules of pleading, and will generally subserve the public convenience. In e administration of justice, matters of form not absolutely subjected to
authority may well yield to the substantial purposes of practice."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is ffrmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the 'Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it. is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of
six per. centum per annum.

ELIZABETH WVALKER, DEVIsEz OF ROBERT WALKER, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FRANIcis T. TAYLOR, WILLAIx ROBINSON, WILLIAM E: SABLETT, THoMAs CooK, AND JOHN M. CREsuP, TRuSTEES OF
THE TOWN, OF CoLumBus, DEFENDANTS.
Where the plaintiff below claimed a ferry right under an act of the legislature of
Kentucky, and the ground of defence was that the act was unconstitutional and
void as impairing vested rights, and the decision of the highest State court was
against the plaintiff, a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of the judiciary
act, will not lie.
This court can entertain jurisdiction under that section only when the decision of
the State court is in favor of the validity of such a statute. Here, the decision
was against its validity.

This case was brought up, by a writ of error issued under the

