504

SUPREME

COURT.

License Cases.-T-hurlow v. Massachusetts.

Mr. Justice GRIER concurred with Mr. Justice Woodbury in
the opinion delivered by him, so far as itrelated to the question of
the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, and also that the weight of
evidence in this case was against the existence of a tide at the place
of collision, but concurred with the majority of the court that the
De Soto was in fault, and justly holden for the whole loss occasioned by the collision.

SADIUEL THUiL0W, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
JOEL FLETCHER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF REODE ISLAND
AND PROVIDENCE PLANT .TIONS.
ANDREw PEIRCE, JR., AND THOMAS W. PEIRCE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Laws of Massachusetts, providing that no person shall presume to be a retailer or
seller of wine, brandyi rum, or other spirituous liquors, in a less quantity than
twenty-eight gallons, and that delivered and carried away all at one time, unless
he is first licensed as a retailer of wine and spirits, and that nothing in the law
should be so construed as to require the county commissioners to grant any licenses,
when in their opinion the public good does not require them to be granted, Of Rhode Island, forbidding the sale of rum, gin, brandy, &c., in a less quantity
than ten gallons, although in this case the brandy which was sold was duly im.orted from France into the United States, and purchased by the party indicted
from the original importer,Of New Hlampshire, imposing similar restrictions to the foregoing upon licenses,
although in this case the article sold was a barrel of American gin, purchased in
Bostoti and carried coastwise to the landing at Piscataqna Bridge and there sold
in the same barrel,All adjudged to be not inconsistent with any of the provisiow of the constitution
of the United States or acts of Congress under it.

TiHUtsE caseswere all brought up from the respective State courts
by writs of error issued under the twenty-fifthsection of the Judiciary
Act, and were commonly known by the name of the License Cases.

Involving the same question, they were argued together, but by
different counsel. When the decision of the court was pronounced,
it was not'accompanied by any opinion of the court, as such. But
six of the justices gave separate opinions, each for himself. Four

of them treated ihe cases collectively in one opinion, whilst the
remaining two expressed opinions in the cases separately. Hence
it becomes necessary for the reporter to make a statement in each
case, and to postpone the opinions until the completion of all the
statements. The arguments of 6ounsel in each case will of course
follow immediately after the statement in that case. They are
placed in the order in which they are put by the Chief Justice in
his opinion, but where the justices have given separate. opinions in
each case, the order is observed which they themselves have chosen.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.

Mr. Chief Justice 'aney,
Mr. Justice McLean,
No.
No.
No.
Air. Justice Catron,
No
No
Mr. Justice Daniel,
Mr. Justice Woodbury,
Mr. Justice Grier,

-Thurlow

505

v. Massachusetts.

three cases. (p. 573.)
one opinion,
three opinions.
(p. 586.)
Thurlow v. Massachusetts.
(p. 593.)
Peirce v. New Hampshire.
(p. 596.)
Fletcher v. Rhode Island.
two opinions.
(p. 597.)
Peirce v. New Hampshire.
(p. 609.)
Thurlow v. Massachusetts.
one opinion, three cses. (p.-4 3 11.)
three cases. (p. 618.)
one opinion,
three cases. (p. 631.)
one opinion,

To begin with the case of
THURLOW

'.

THE

COMMONWEALTH

OF MASSACHUSETTS.

This case was brought up from the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts. The plaintiff in error was indicted and convicted,
under the Revised Statutes of the .State, for selling liquor without
a license. The indictment contained several specifications, but
they were all similar to the first5 which was as follows :" The jurors, for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, upon
their oath present, that Samuel Thurlow, of Georgetown, in said
county, trader, on the first day of May, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and forty-two, at said Georgetown, he
not being then and* there first licensed as a retailer of wine and
spirits, as provided in the forty-seventh chapter of the Revised
Statutes of said Commonwealth, and without any license therefor
duly had according to law, d~d presume tobe, and was, a retailer
of wine, brandy, rum, and spirituous liquors, to one Samuel Goodale, in a less quantity than twenty-eight gallons, and that delivered
and carried away all at one time, and did then and there sell to said
Goodale two quarts of spirituous liquors, and no more, igainst the
peace of said Commonwealth and the form of the statute in such
case made and provided."
It becomes necessary to insert the forty-seventh chapter of the
Revised Statutes, and also all act passed in 1837. They are as
follows :Revised Statutes of Alassachusetts, Chap. 47. - The Regulation
of Licensed H1ouses.
"Section 1. No person shall presume to be an innholder, common victualler, or seller of wine, brandy, rum, or any other spirituous liquor, t6 be used in or dbout his house, or other buildings, unless
he is first licensed as an innholder or common victualler, according
to the provisions of this chapter, on pain of forfeiting one hundred
dollars.
" Sect. 2. If any person shall sell any wine or spirituous liquor,
4,
VOL. V.

506

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow

r. Massachusettu.

or imy mixed liquor, part of which is spirituous, to be used in or
about his house or other buildings, without being duly licensed as
an ianholder or common victualler, he shall forfeit for each offence
tw fity-dollars.
"Sect. 3. No person shall presume to be d retailer or seller of
wine, brandy,, rum, or other spirituous liquors, in a less quantity
,than twenty-eight gallons, and that deliveredand carried away all at
one time, unless he is [at] first licensed as a retailer of wine and
spirits, as is provided in this chapter, on pain of forfeiting twenty
dollars for each offence.
" Sect. 4. If any person, licensed to be a retailer as aforesaid,
shall sell any of the above liquors; either mixed or unmixed, to be
used in or about his house'or shop, he shall forfeit for each offence
twenty dollars.
"SOct. 5. Every innholder shall at all times be furnished with
- suitable provisions and lodging for strangers and travellers, and with
stable-room, hay, and provender for their torses and cattle ; and if
he shall not-be at all times so provided, the county commissioners
may revoke his license.
" Sect. 6. Every cornmon victualler shall have all the rights and
privileges, an' be subject to all the duties and obligations, of innholders, 'excepting that he shall not be required to furnish lodgings
for travellers, nor'stable-room, hay, and provender for horses and
cattle.

-

"Sect. 7. Every innholder and common victualler shall at all
times have a board or sign affixerd to'his house, shop, cellar, or store,
or in some conspicuous place near the same, with his name at large
thereon, and the employment for which he is licensed, on pain of
forfeiting twenty dollars.
"Sect. 8. If any innholder shall, when requested, refuse to receive and make suitable provisions for strangers and tralellers, and
their horses and cattle, he shall, upon conviction thereof before the
Court of Common Pleas, be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars, and shall also, by order of the said court, be deprived of his
license ; and the court shall order the sheriff or his deputy forthwith
to cause his sign to be taken down.
" Sect. 9. No innholder or common victualler shall have or keep
in or about his house, or other buildings, yards, and gardens, or dependencies, any dice, cards,-howls, billiards, quoits, or other implements used in .gaming, nor shall suffer any person resorting thither
to use or exercise any of said games, or any other unlawful game or
sport-within his said premises, on pain of forfeiting ten dollars for
every such offence.
"Sect. 10. Every person convicted of using or exercising any
of the games aforesaid, in or about any such house or building of an
innholder or common victualler, shall forfeit ten dollars.
CSfect. 11. No innholder or common victualler shall suffer any

JANUARY TERM,
License Cases.-Thurlow

1847.

5W7

v. Massachus.etts.

person to drink to drunkenness or excess in Iiis premises, nor suffer
any minor or servant, travellers excepted, to have any strong drink
there, on pain of forfeiting five dollars for each offence.
"Sect. 12. If any innholder or common victualler shall trust or
give credit to any person for liquor,'he shall lose and forfeit all the
sums so trusted or credited, and all actions brought for such debt
shall be utterly barred ; and the defendafit in such action may plead
the matter specially, or may give it in evidence under the general.
issue.
" Sect. 13. If any common victualler shall keep open his house,
cellar, shop, store, or place of business on any part of the Lord's
day or evening, or at a later hour than ten of th6 o'clock in the evening of any other day of the week, and entertain any person therein
by selling him any spirituous or strong liquor, he shall 'orfeit for
each offence ten dollars.
" Sect. 14. When any person shall, by excessive drinking of
spirituous liquors, so misspend, waste; or lessen his. estate as" thereby either to expose himself or his family to want or indigent circumstances, or the town to which he belongs to expense for the maintenance of him or his family, or shall so habitually indulge himself in
the use of .spirituous liquors as thereby greatly to injure his health
or endanger the loss thereof, the selectmen of the town in which
such spendthrift lives shall, in writing under their hands, forbid all
licensed innholders, common victuallers, and retailers of the same
town, to sell to him tiny spirituous or strong liquors aforesaid for the
space of one year ; and they may in like manner forbid the selling
of any such liquors to the said spendthrift by the said licensed persons of auy other town to which the spendthrift may resort for the
same ; and the city clerk of the city of Boston shall, under the direction of the mayor and aldermen thereof, issue a like prohibition
as to any such spendthrift in the said city.
"Sect. -15. The said mayor and aldermen, and said selectmen,
shall, in the same manner, from -year to year' renew such prohibition as to all such persons as have not, in their opinion, reformed
within thb year ; and if any innholder, common victualler, or retailer shall, duriaig any such prohibition, sell to any such prohibited
person any such spirituous liquor, he shall forfeit for each offence
twenty dollars.
" Sect. 16. When the said mayor and aldermen, or selectmen,
in execution of the foregoing provisions, shall have prohibited the
sale of spirituous liquors to any such spendthrift, if any person
shall, with a knowledge .of said prohibition, give, sell, purchase, or
procure for and in behalf of such prohibited person, or for his use,
any such spirituous liquors, he shall forfeit for each offence twenty
dollars.
" Sect. 17. The commissioners in the several counties tnay license, for the towns in their respective counties, as many persons to

508

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.

-Thuriow

v. Massachusetts.

be innholders or retailers therein as they shall think the public good
may require ; and the mayor and aldermen of the city of Boston
may, in like manner, license innholders and retailers in the said city;
"afid the Court of Common Pleas in the county of Stiffolk may, in
like manner' license innholders and retailers in the town of Chelsea ;
,and every license, either to an innholder or retailer, shall contain a
specification of the street, lane, alley, or other place, End the number
of the building, or some. other particular.description thereof, where
such licensed person shall' exercise his employment; and the license shall not protect any such person from the penalties provided
in this chapter for exercising his employment in any other place than
that which is specified in -the license.
" Sect. 18. The mayor and aldeimen-of the city of Boston may
license, for the said city, as many persons to be common victuallers
as they shall think the public good may require ; and every such license shall contain such a specification or description, as is mentioned in the preceding section, of the street or othfer place, and of.
the building where the licensed person shall exercise his employment ; and the license shall not protect him from the penalties pro:
vided in this chapter for exercising it in any other place.
" Sect. 19; All licenses to any innholder, retailer, or common
victualler ,hall "expire on the first day of April in each year ; but
Any license may be granted or; renewed at any time during the preceding month of March, to take effect from the said first day of
April, and after that day they may -be granted for the remainder of
the year, whenever the officers authorized to grant the same shall
deem it -expedient.
".Sect. 20. Every person, 'Who shall be licensed as before provided in this chapter, shall pay therefor to the clerk of the city of
Boston, the clerk of the Court of Common Pleas for the county
of Suffolk, or to the clerk of the commissioners of The respective
counties so licensing said person, one dollar, which shall be paid bysaid clerks to the treasurers of their respective counties for the use
of said counties ;',and such persons shall also pay twenty cents to the
use of the. said clerks respectively; and no other fee or excise
whatever shall be taken from any, person applying for or receiving a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
"Sept. 21. Any license. to an innholder, retailer, or common
victualler may be so .framed as to authorize the licensed person to
sell wine, beer, ale, cider, or any ofher fermented liquors, and not
-to authorize him to sell brandy, rum, or any other spirituous liquor';
and no excise or fee shall-be required for such a license.
"Sect. 22. The, clerk of th commissioners in the several
counties shall, seasonably, before the time for granting licenses in
each year, transmit to the
of every town within the
county a list of the persons in such town who were licensed as innholders or retailers the preceding year.
-electmen

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

509

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

"Sect. 23. No license shall be granted or renewed to any petson, unless he shall produce a certificate from the selectmen of thQ
town for which he applies to be licensed, in substance as follows,
to wit: - We, the subscribers, a majority of the selectmen of the
town of
, do hereby certify that
has applied to us
to be recommended as ,(here expressing the employment, and a particular description of the place for which the license is applied for) in
the said town, and that, after mature consideration had thereon, at a
meeting held for that purpose, at which, we were each-of us present,
we are of opinion that the petition- of said
be granted, be
being, to the best of our kn6wledge, and behalf, -rperson: of go.od
moral icharacter.
" Sect. 24. Any person, producing such certificate of the selectmen, shall be, heard, and his application decided upon, .eitler on a
motion made orally by himself or his qounse, -or upon a petition in
writing, as he shall elect.
" Sect. 25. If the selectmen of any town shall unreasonably
neglect or refuse to make and deliver such a certificate, either for the
original granting or the renewal of a license, the person aggrieved
thereby may apply. for a license. to the commissioners, first giving
twenty-four hours' notice to a majority of the said selectmen of his
intended application, so that they may appear, if they see fit, to object thereto ; and if on-suchapplication it shall appear that the said
selectmen did unreasonably neglect or refuse to 'give the said certificate, and that~the public good requires that the.license should be
granted, the commissioners may grant the same.'
" Sect. 26. All the fines imposed by- this chapter may be recovered by indictment, to the use of the county where the offence
is committed; and when the. fine does not exceed twenty dollars,
the offence may be prosecuted before a justice of the peace, subject to the right of appeal to the Court of Common Pleas, as in
other cases.
"1Sect 27. When any person shall be convicted under the provisions of this chapter, and shall fail to pay the fine awarded against
him, he may be imprisoned in the coinmon jail for a time not ex-.
ceeding ninety days,- at the discretion of the court or justice before
whom the trial may be had.
" Sect. 28. All prosecutions, urider the provisions of this chapter, for offences committed in the city of Boston (excepting where
the fine exceeds twenty dollars), may bi heard and-determined in the
Police Court, subject to the right of appeal to the Municipal Gourt;
but the said Police Court shall not ha've power, in any such case,
to sentence any person to imprisonment, except as provided in
the preceding section.
" Sect. 29. Any person, licensed under the "provisions of this
chapter, who shall have-been twice before convicted of.a breach of
any of the said provisions, shall thereupon, in addition to the penal
43 *

510

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts..

ties before provided, te liable to a further punishrment, by imprisonment in the common jail, for a time not.exceeding, ninety days, at
the discretion of the court before whom the trial may be had."
.Icts of 1837, Chapter 242.

" An Act concerning Licensed Houses, and the Sale of Intoxicating Liquors.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in
General Court assembled, and by the authority qf the same, as follows :"1Sect. 1. No licensed innholder, or other person, shall sell any
intoxicating liquor on Sunday, on pain of forfeiting twenty dollars
for each offence, to be recovered in the manner and for the use
provided in the twenty-sixth section of the forty-seventh chapter of
the Revised Statutes .
" Sect. 2. Any license to an innholder, or -common victualler,
may be so framed as to authorize the licensed person, to keep an
mn or victualling-house without authority to sell any intoxicating
liquor, and no excise or fee shall be required for such license :
Provided, that nothing contained in this act, or in the forty-seventh
chapter of the*Revised Statutes, shall be so construed as to require
the county commissioners to grant any licenses, when in their
opinion the public good does not require them to be grantel.
"1Sect. 3. Any 'person who shall have been licensed according to
the provisions of the forty-seventh chapter of the Revised Statutes,
or of this act, and who shall have been twice convicted of a breach
of this act or of that chapter, shall, on such second conviction, in
addition to the penalties prescribed for such offence, be adjudged to
have forfeited his license.
" Sect. 4. Any. person who shall have been three times convicted of a breach of this act, or of the forty-seventh chapter of The
Revised Statutes, shall, upon such third conviction, in addition to
the penalties in this act and said chapter provided, be liable to be
imprisoned in the common jail, for a time not exceeding ninety days,
at the discretion of the court before whom the ti4al may be had.
11 Sect. 5. The secretary of this Cormnonwealth shall cause a
condensed summary of all laws relating to innholders, retailers, and
licensed houses to be printed for the use of this Commonwealth,
and he shall supply the county commissioners for the several
counties, and such other officers as by law' are authorized to grint
licenses, with the same; 'and the said commissioners, or other
officers, whenever they grant any license, shall furnish each person
so licensed with one copy of saidlicense laws, to the end that such
person may know to what duties, restrictions, and liabilities he is
subjected by lawv."
[Approved by the Governor, April 20, 1837.]

JANUARY TERS

1847.

511

License Casem.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

A conviction having Aaken place, under the indictment upon.these
statutes, the defendant filed several exceptions, of which it is material
.
to notice only the following :-.
"c 2. It appeared upon the trial that some of the sales charged in
tl-e inadictment were of foreign liquors, and his Honor directed the
jury-that the license law of this Commonwealth applied as well to
imported spirits as to domestic, and that this Commonwealth could
constitutionally control the sale of foreign spirits by retail, and that
said law is not inconsistent with constitution or revenue laws of the
United States. To this ruling also the defendant excepts."
The court below allowed this exception, together with all thq
others, upon which.the case was removed to the Supreme Judicial
Court. But that court overruled the exceptions, and ordered
judgment to be entered upon the verdict.
.Mr. Hallett, the counsel for Thurlow, then applied for,.and obtained, a writ of error to bring the case to the Supreme Court of the
United States, upon the folloving allegation of error, viz.:'"That the several acts,of the legislature of Massachusetts concerning licensed houses and the sale of intoxicating liquors, add especially the acts which are'hereto appended and set out as palt of
the record in the said cause, ufon which said judgment ivas founded,
and also the opinion and judgment 6f said Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, in the application and construction.of- said acts to
the sales of imported foreign liquors and spirits by the said Thurlow, are repugnant to, -and inconsistent with, the 'provisions of the
constitution, treaties, and laws of the United States, in *sofar as the
aid acts, and the construction thereon by the said Supreme Judicial
Court of Massacbusetti, prohibit, restrain, control, or prevent the
sale of imported wines and spirituous liquors, by retail or otherwise,
in the said State of Massachusetts, and aTe therefore void.'
.
Upon the writ of error thus issued, the case came up -to this
court.
It was argued in January, 1845, by Mr. Choadte and .Mr. Webster, for the plaintiff in error, and .Mr.Huntington, for the State.
Being *orderedto be reargued, it *as now argued br Mr. Webster
alone, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Davis, for the State.
Mr., Webster opene'd the case. The best mode of presenting
his views of the poihts which arose will be, to.reprint the brief filed
by himself and .Mr, Chbate in the former argument. It was as
follows :The plaintiff in error, a citizen of the United States, living in
Massachusetts, was convicted, under the 'Revised Statutes of that
State, ch. 47, and the statute of that State of 1837, ch. 242, of
sales of foreign spirits, made in 1841 and IS42, without a license.
He seeks*to reverse the judgment, upon the general ground that
those statutes are repugnant to constitutional acts of Congress, and
'to the constitution of the United States ; *nd contends,

512

SUPREME COURT.
'License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

1st. That they prohibit even the importer of foreign spirits from
selling them in the bottle, keg, or cask in which he imports them,
either for consumption at the place of sale, or for carrying away ;
and are therefore unconstitutional, within the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 41.
2d. That they are void, as being repugnant to the legislation of
Congress, in their application to purchasers from impoiters, of whom
the plaintiff is ohe ; and -hereunder he submits the following analysis
of his argument.
1st. The statutes of Massachusetts are not auxiliary to, cooperative with. and -merely regulative of, the legislation of Congress,
which admits foreign spirits to importation under prescribed rates of
duty,, but are antagonistical to and in contravention of it, since they
seek to diminish and discourage the sales of imported spirits to a
greater degree than the legislation of. Congress seeks to do it, upon
the ground that the policy of Congress in this behalf is an erroneous
policy.
To maintain this, the object and operation of the Massachusetts
statutes, and the policy and the principle of constitutional power.
upon which they proceed, are to be considered.
Without a license, no one can sell, in a single instance, spirits to
be used on the premises of the vendor, and no one'can.sell them for
the purpose of being carried away, in a less quantity than twentyeight gallons, which must be bought and removed all at one time.
The result, therefore, is, that without a license no one can sell
spirits to be used, or to be carried away for use, since no-one purchases for use .so large a quantity as twenty-eight gallons to be carried away at one time.
Witmout a license, therefore, no one can sell at all byretail ; and
the retail trade in spirits, the sale of spirits for use, is suppressed.
2d. No one is entitled to a license, or can exact it, whatever be
bis. character or fitness to trade.
No court or person is required to give a license. A tribunal
called county commissioners, chosen by the people of the counties,
may, if in its judgment the public good requires it, grant licenses;
but even in such-case is not required to grant them.
For the last si 'years none have been granted in the county of
the plaintiff's residence, containing more than one hundred thousand
inhabitants.
This withholding of licenses is no fraud on the Massachusetts
statutes, but in perfect conformity with them.
-In conformity with the law, then , all sales of spirits for use may
be totally prohibited in Massachusetts,
These laws design.to do just what can be legally, and without
defraudin6 them, done under them.
They cesign, then, t6 restrain all sales of spirits for use ; and
they do this- upon a general principle of policy, to wit :-that such
sales, for such purpose) by whotisoever made, are a public evil.

JANUARY TERM,
License

1847.

513

Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

The difference, therefore, between them and all laws of mere
policy, of quarantine, health, harbours, storage of gunpowder, and
the like, is, that those laws are auxiliary to, in aid and furtherance
of, co-operative with, the Congressional legislation, while these
deny its policy, and thwart and restrain its operations.
These statutes do not confine themselves to providing for suitable
persons, places, and modes of selling foreign spirits, so as to secure
the largest amount of traffic in the most expedient and prudent manner ; but they- mean, substantially and effectually, to put an end to
the traffic.
The plaintiff in error, therefore, will discuss thesd laws, as if they
did, in terms, prohibit all persons who buy of importers from reselling, since they do substantially so operate ; and they assert. a
principle of power broad enough to go to that extent.
The general question, therefore, is this. Is a State law, prohibiting purchasers of spirits from importers to resell, on the ground
that, for moral, medical, economical, or other reasons, the public
good will not be promoted by such sale, repugnant to the acts of
Congress, and to treaties authorizing importations of such spirits ?
These sales were in 1841, and subsequent. The acts of Congress are, 1832, ch. 227, 4 Statutes at Large, 583; 1833,, ch.
55, 4 ibid. 629 ; 4 ibid. 25 ; 3 ibid. 310.
Theseauthorize importations in casks of fifteen gallons.
2d. What is the extent of the effect of an act of Congress authorizing importations ?
I. Regarded as a license to, or contract with, the importer, communicating a right to sell, according to the view in Brown v. Maryland, 447, what is its extent ?
The plaintiff contends that it would be repugnant to, and in fraud
of, &helicense, either to ordain that Ao one shall buy of the importer,
or. to ordain that no one, having bought, shall resell, because either
prohibiti6n would totally defeat the license itself. The license is a
license to carry the article to market, to trade in*it, to have access
with it to the consuming capacity of the country.
The grounds on which Congress legislate, in passing such an act,
*andthe just expectatidns and reasonings of the importer, 'prove this.
The interception of the article in the hands of the first buyer, on
its. way to a market, excludes it from market, and shuts the importer from the country as really as if he were prohibited to sell.
2. Regarded as Congressional legislation, an act authorizing importations of spirits is a legislative determination that the foreign
article may properly, and shall, enter into the consumption bf the
country, and be sold in the interior market thereof ; and the MassachusQtts 8tatutes are intended to contravene that determination, upon
a directly opposite view of policy.
3. Congress has the constitutional power to determine, on genera) grounds of policy, what foreign articles shall enter into the-con-

514

SUPREME COURT.',
License Cases.-Thurlow v., Massachusetts.

sumption of the country, and be sold in the domestic market, and to
what extent ; and it exercises'this power by an act laying duties.It determines that all which can be introduced and sold under such
a rate of duties shall be, and the power of the States is merely
auxiliary, coiperative, and regulative, securing proper persons bywhom the traffic shall be conducted, but not discountenancing and
discouraging the traffic itself. That power thesb statutes transcend.
It may'be proper, also, in this connection, to reprint the abstract
of the argument of Mr. Hallett, upon the same side, to show the
reasons given for the doctrine sustained by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error. Mr. Hallett's abstract was as follows Are the laws of Massachusetts concerning'the sale of imported
wines and spirits constitutional and valid ?
We contend they. are not, because, -,
1. No State can prohibit, by wholesale or retail, the sale of merchandise authorized by a valid law of Congress, or by treaties, to
be imported-into its markets ; the retail sale being as indispensable
to the object of importation, viz. use and consumption, as the
wholesale.
2. The laws- of 'the United States nowhere recognize any distinction between the wholesale and retail of imported merchandise,
as connected with.the right of the importer to introduce such merchandise, for use and consumption, into the markets of the United
States.
3. Every concurrent or other pcwer in a State is subject in its
exercise to this limitation, that in the event of .collision, the law of
the, State must yield to the law of Congress, constitutionally passed.
New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102 ; Commonwealth v. Kimball,
24 Pick. 359.
. 4. If Congress has the power to'regulate a subject-matter, a State
cannot interfere to oppose or impede such regulation. The general
govermment though limited, is supreme as to those objects over
which it has power: Martin v. Hunter, I Wheat. 304; Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 384 ; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 539.
5. The commerce which Congress may regulate is something
more than traffic. It is every species of commercial intercourse
between the United States and foreign nations, and among the several States. " These words [regulate commerce] comprehend
every species of commercial intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations. No sort of trade can be carried on between
this country'and another to which this power does not extend."
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 189, 193, 194.
6. The exercise of the rower of a State to regulate its internal
commerce must not conflict with, and cannot control; the power of
Congress to regulate foreign commerce, and commerce among the
States. *The internal commerce on which a State can act, inde-

JANUARY. TERM, 1847.
License

515

Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

pendent of a law of Congress affecting the same, must be trade, or
dealing in articles not connected with the operation of a valid law
of the United States. It must be " completely internal," local,
and not connected with the United States government, in the exercise of its power to regulate commerce, and to lay and collect
duties and imposts.
7. " The power [of the United States] to regulate commerce,
must not terminate at the boundarieg of the State, Eut must enter
its interior. The power is coextensive with the subject on which
it acts." Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 446.
8. If a State, under the power of regulating her internal commerce, can exclusively regulate or control (to the extent of prohibition) commerce in imported merchandise, up to her boundaries,
or the instant it shall pass, in bulk, from the hands of the imporifr,
she can thereby exclude foreign commerce, and deny her markets
to f9reign nations.
-9 If a' State has no such power of prohibition, she cannot em.
power her officers or agents, to do what she cannot do herself, viz.,
prohibit internal commerce in foreign merchandise. Sup'pose the
legislature of Massachusetts, instead of conferring thispower of prohibition upon county commissioners, to be exercised in their uncontrolled discretion, should retain it, to' be exercised by herself; it
would be unlawful legislation, and collision of a State law with a
law of the United States.10. The laws of Massachusetts, of which the plaintiff in error
complains as unconstitutional, are, in respect to commerce and trade
in this description of imported merchandise, a law of prohibition,
because they assume to provide for licenses to persons to sell, and
then empower the agents they create to refuse all such licenses,
without cause ; and it punishes all sellers in.quantities less than
twenty-eight gallons, without such license ; and, in fact, no such

license can be obtained. Both the intent and the operation of these
laws are, therefore, prohibitory.
I I. If it be said that it depends upon the administration of this
law, whether it be constitutional or not, and therefore a law may be
constitutional though its operation may be unconstitutional, the
answer is, that a State cannot so frame a law as that under one
sort of administration it is constitutional, and under, another unconstitutional, and both operations be lawful, and thus the law be valid.
12. If a law of a State provides for and contemplates collision
with a law of the United States, the former is invalid, and must
yield whenever the collision arises.
13. The counsel for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts admits
that the law complained of becomes prohibitory against this description of imported merchandise, whenever the public sentiment of'a
majority electing the county commissioners requires prohibition;
If this be valid State legislation, then the power of Congress to reg-

516

SUPREME COURT.
Laccbnse Cases. -Thurlow

v. Massachusetts.

ulate commerce in imported merchandise is subordinate to the
disposition of the legislat re of a State to exclude it from their
markets.
14. The laws of Congress make no distinctionbetween commerce
in imported wines and spirits and other foreign merchandise. A
recognition of the power of a State to exclude the first from its
markets, whenever public sentiment requires it, must embrace the
like power in respect to all other descriptions of imports, whenever the public sentiment in a State demands its exercise.
15. There is no preeminence given to that class of State legislation denominated police laws over other laws, whenever they
come in collision with the lawful exercise of a power of Congress ;
and in such case the latter, by the terms of the constitution, shall
be the supreme law of the land.
16. The law of Massachussetts in question, is not a health law
against contagion or infectipn in the article imported ; it aims to
keep it out of the bands of the consumer, on the ground of its
abuse in excess of use. Health laws may exclude all such portions
or carg6es of an article of commerce as are infectious ; but they
cannot exclude a whole class of imported merchandise, on the
ground that infected portions or cargoes of it have been, or may be,
imported.
17. Infected' articles of commerce may rightfully be excluded
from passing the boundary of a State, and reaching the hands of
the importer, as well as the consumer. But a State cannot (under
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.) exclude imported wines and
spirits, or any sound articl of commerce, frQm reaching the importer ;.and this is an obvious distinction between health laws and a
law of prohibition to cut off the transfer of a sound article from the
importer to the consumer.
18. The point where regulation ceases and prohibition begins is
the point of collision, and of unconstitutional operation, of.a State
law affecting foreign commerce. In this respect a .State law becomes a 'law of prohibition when it punish~s all who sell without
license, and confers the wholeallpower,
of licensing on agents, with
licenses.
express authority to withhold
. 19. In any and all cases, the power to" deny sale includes the
power to prohibit importation ; and the question of power is the.
same, whether exercised directly by the legislature, or indirectly by
its agents thereto authorized.
20. The operation of the law of Massachusetts on foreign.wines
and spirits deprives imported articles of their vendible quality.
This such law cannot rightfully do, for the whole course of legislation by Congress.shows that the right to.sell is connected with the
payment of duties, and the right to sell must extend beyond-the importer, or'it is an inoperative right.
21. The hrgument on the other- side is, that if the power to

JANIURRY TERM, 1847.

517

License Caes.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

regulate commerce can follow the imported article, with its vendible quality attached, into a State, it can compel consumption by
the citizens of that State. This confounds the mere commercial
ight to offer for sale with the power to force purchase. All the
'law of Congres requires in the markets of the United States is a
right to sell and buy ; and when this right ceases, commerce
ceases.
22. The counsel on the other side further argues, that the State
has a right to deny this commerce, whenever her citizens do not
wish to deal in it. But if they do not desire to purchase, there would
be no need of a prohibition of sale. - The law of prohibition proceeds on the. ground, that if commerce in this article were not denied,
there woold be such commerce ; and therefore it directly interferes
with the law of Congress regulating that comrherce.
23. A State may pass all such laws As she pleases for the safety,
health, or morals of her people, and way use wbatever means sbe
may think proper to that end, subject bnly to this limitation, that in
the event of collision with a law of Congress, the State must yield.
Commonwealth v. Kimball, 24 Pick- 363.
• 24. Now, Congress, by law and by treaties, authorizes foreign
commerce with the States in wines and spirits. By the treaty of
indemnity with France, in 1832, the wines of France were "admitted
to consumption in the markets of the United States.." The law of
Massachusetts shuts her markets against the fair and just operation
of these laws and tre'aties of the United States, and renders them
so far inoperative.
25. The general view as to the .prohibitory provisions- of the
laws of Massachusetts in this matter, taken together, is, that it is a
blending of two powers to be exercised at pleasure under the
statute: cne legitimate, - to regulafe ; the other unconstitutional,to prohibit, whenever the public sentiment- in the State comes up
to that point.
26. Massachusetts assumes to abolish foreign commerce in her
markets in imported spirits, on the ground of thereby preserving the
health and morals of the 'people ; but at the same time, in her internal commerce and exports, she encourages, without tax or excise,
an annual manufacture by her citizens of' 5,177,910 gallons of
domestic spirits, which is one eighth part of the-whole product of
the United States in spirits distilled from molasses and grain.
27. Congress has not changed its policy ,.in this respect, "but
Massachusetts has changed hers, in opposition to the laws of Congress. Until 1837 i the laws ,of Massachusetts uniformly providsd
for the sale and consumption of wines and. ardent spirits imported
into her markets. The nct of 1786, ch. 68 (1 Mass. Laws,
297), was in force with additional acts till 1832. By section "fifteen, the general sessions werb not to license more.p-ersons in any
town than they shall judge necessary, for refreshment of traIVellrs,
VbL. V.

4.4

Sig

S'1PREME 0OURT
License Casel ;-'Thurlow v. Masachusotts.

or are necessary for' the public good, by which was meant the
publio convenience. Act of 1792, ch. 25, p. 417, required all
persons to be licensed, on satisfactory evidence of fitness, and that
such license will be subservient to the public good. Additional
Acts, 1807, ch. 127 ; 1816; ch. 112; 1818, ch. 65.
The act of 1832, ch. 166, reduced the maximum4o ten gallons,
and provided for a new class, victuallers. The commissioners to
license, as innholders and retailers, as many applicants as they shal
decide.the public good may require. Thelaw now in force (Rev.
Stat., ch. 47, 1835). altered this provision, to power tb county cancn4
"missionersto license as 'many persons as they shall think the public
good'may require.
I Then followed the declaratory act of 1837, ch. 242, that the
cbmmissioners might withhold all licenses in their discretion.
The act of 1838, ch. 157 (commonly called The Fifteen-galon
'Law), made penal - all sales of spirituous liquors less 'than &fteen gallons; licensed .only apothecaries to sell, for medicine and
the arts, and punished the sale by them, if, to be drank ; and. e'
pealed all laws inconsistent with this act.
. This brought up the question of probhiblion. The anot was 'contested in the, courts 'of Massachusetts as unconstitutional, but was
not decided there before it.was repealed, in 1840, without any reservations. The Supreme ,Court of that State thereupon, decidodd
in 1840, that the repeal revived the preexisting laws, chap, 47 of
Rev. Stat., and chap. 242 of 1837 (Commonwealth v. -Churchill,
2 Metcalf, 118). Since then no licenses have been granted. The
paintiff's first sale in the case at bar was in May, 1841; and, this
case has been brought up on writ of error as soon as the laws of
Massachusetts and the decisions of her highest court have established prohibition as the law of that State.
28. The law of Massachusetts comes in collision with the power
of dongress over revenue, which is a supreme pover, used las a
substitute for taxation. With this view, the constitution requires
that "all duties shall he uniform throughout the United States."
If Massachusetts, by her laws, can exclude one or more articles
of import, she pays so much less revenue than other States that
admit all. This makes the operation unequal so far, arising from
the legislation of Massachusetts adverse io the power of Gongtess
to colleot revenue in al.-the States. Suppose the duty on foreign,
wines and spirits to be one' fourteenth part of all the revenue, the
States can cut that off, if this legislation is valid; ard, by the same
rule, all other sources to collect revenue are wholly destroyed.
29. So of the treaty-making -power. The United States has
power tQ reciprocate its markets with the markets of foreign nations ;
but if a State can shut its markets against any one or more of the
articles admitted, by denying sale, the United States cannot in
good faith perform any' such reciprocal engagement.

JANUARY
License

TE'R',

Cases.-Thurlow

-1847.

&19

v. Massachusetts.

30. The laws of Massachuetts, therefore, which, by their provisions, and their operation in conformity to such provisions, prohibit all commerce in wines and spirits in quantities under twentyeight gallons, ate repugnant to the constitution and laws of the
United States,1st. In the 'power to regulate foreign commerce.
2d. In the power t6 collect revenue on imports into the several
States.
3d. In the equal apportionment of taxes and duties in all the
States ; and,
4th. In the power to make treaties.
,Mr.Davis; for the State. The following is a sketch of the argument, and shows the positions assumed and maintained by him for
the defendant in error.
The broad ground assumed by the plaintiff's counsel is, that the
statute of Massachusetts is unconstitutional, becahse it "prohibith,
restrains, controls, or prevents the sale of imported wines and spirituous liquors, by retail or otherwise, in the State."
To make the policy of Massachusetts, in restraining an indiscriminate traffic in intoxicating drinks, intelligible. we ,must understnd its history, and the stat6 and condition of things when the
constitution of the United States xias made.
The court has often declared, that in a complicated system, which
establishes two governments over the same people, it is necessary,
in considering questionaof power, to look into contemporaneous
facts ; that the objects designed to be secured by the federal' constitution may be understood, and, if possible, carried into effect.
The context of the instrument is not alone to be regarded, but
the whole machinery of government ; and care must be taken, in
carrying out the fundamental principles, that the purpose of .the
framers is not frustrated.
As the power of Massachusetts to make laws restraining traffic
in intoxicating drinks is denied, I shall, as a preliminary step, briefly
state the history of her legislation upon this subject, and point out
the consequences which will follow if this doctrine is maintained.
The law of Massachusetts was revised in 1836; but acts similar
in principle, and nearly so in detail, have existed for more than two
centuries, and been enforced by her judicial tribunals. Ancient
Charters, 135, 314, 433 ; Laws of Mass., 1786, ch. 68 ; Revised
Statutes, ch. 47, and several other statutes.
The law, substantantially as it now is, forbidding a sale vithout a
license in less quantities than twenty-eight gallons, was made' in
1786, and was in force when the fede ral constitution was ratified,
and has, with immaterial modifications, remained so from that time
to this.
From thence till this time,. the'.revenue system of the United

520

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-thurlow

v. Massachusetts.

States has been in force; and the laws which are now supposed to
conflict have during all that time worked harmoniously together.
After a lapse of fifty-six years, it is now first discovered that
the State is trenching upon the power of the United States, and
impairing the revenue by restraining the sale of imported wines and
spirits.
Let it be remembered, however, that the United States do not
and have not complained of any wrong done by the State ; nor has
any question ever been agitated in that quarter, in regard to the
diminution of the revenue; which makes it -quite apparent that no
serious inconvenience is felt.
While, however, I admit the right of the plaintiff to appeal to
this court, I must observe, that, although this long acquiescence
may not prove the law of the State to be constitutional, it establishes the fact that it has produced no noticeable or sensible influence upon the revenue or the revenue power of the United States.It would seem, also, to be a clear indication that the federal government is not hostile to the policy, of Massachusetts, or anxious to
promote drinking to increase the revenue.
It also proves, that the State has at all times during its organization as a body politic considered restraint in the traffic of spirits as
essential to the public welfare.
But the State is not an exception to other communities in this
respect, but has followed out a principle which has been maintained
and'enforced through all ages among the civilized nations.
JXr. Davis then proceeded to prove, from historical authority.,
that the ancient Egyptians, the Greeks, the Romans,. and the more
Eastm nations did, through most periods of their cxistence, main-lain rigid and severe restrictions upon the use of wine, and that excessive indulgence at all times was esteemed criminal.
He referred also to China, and the bordering nations, where abstinence from intoxicating drinks was enforced as a religious duty.
Re referred also to the Western nations of Europe, whose opinions
and laws were equally condemnatory of excessive' indulgence, and
remarked that but one opinion prevailed through all ages.
He said, that the common law of England and this country
frowned upon intemperance, and held it to be without apology ;
for, while mental alienation by the providence of God was a juafieation of crime, when it occurred by drink it was not ; but the
party was held answerable, because his insanity was occasioned by
his own folly.
Even in thq new settlement of Oregon, made up of people congregated from different parts of the earth, the oale and manufacture
of spirits was forbidden by law.
But theie was no occasion to multiply proofs of public opinion,
for intemperance was everywhere deprecated and lamented, and
had almost everywhere fallen under the condemnation of legal re-

JANUARY

TERM. 1847.

521

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

straint, by enactments for that purpose, or by taxation. Experience
had everywhere proved that there was a proneness in the human
appetite to excess which requires control.
It should be observed, that the ancients were unacquainted with
alcohol, and used wine in its simplest and most unobjectionable
forms; while upon the moderns the double duty is devolved of
contending against the demoralizing effects of both.
The train of evils which mark the progress of intemperance is
too obvious to require comment. It. brings with it degradation of
character, impairs the moral and physical energies, wastes the
health, increases the number of paupers and criminals, undermines
the morals, and sinks its victims to the lowest depths of vice and
profligacy.
In proof of this, there were in New York, in 1845, 26,114
paupers, 6,245 of whom were reduced to that condition by intemperance. In the same year there were in Massachusetts 14,308,
and 6,740 were addicted to excessive drinking.
In the Singsing penitentiary, in 1845, there were 861 convicts,
and 504 of these had been intemperate. The returns of other
poor-houses and penitentiaries are equally startling.
These facts prove that intemperance is an evil of all-pervading
magnitude, and that all ages and communities have set upon it the
seal of disapprobation.
Such being its character, and such the evils which it engenders,
the Colony, the Province, and the State of Mfassachusetts held it
to be an imperative duty to check its progress by suitable restraint,
and to promote sobriety and temperance by wholesome regulations.
Her law stood upon her statute-book when the federal constitution was made, and there it still remains.
No argument can make the fact clearer, that she has at all -times
esteemed legal restraint as indispensable to the public welfare.
Suppose, then, that the law of the State should be held unconstitutional, and she should be denied the power-to legislate upon the
subject ; what consequences would follow ?
It will appear in the progress of thi5 inquiry, that the United
States have no power to regulate the traffic in wines and. spirits
within the States ; and if the State has no 'such power, then the
right is abrogated.
Is not such a result hostile to the intent of all parties to the
constitution ? The framers did not intend it, and the- States could
not have contemplated it.
The United States are as much interested in the preservation of
life, health, and morals as the States can be, and the motive to
avert pauperism, crime, and profligacy must, with them, be equally
persuasive. The policy and duty of the federal and State governments must obviously be concurrent, and cannot be arrayed in
hostile attitude without violence to both.
44 *

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow v

Massachusetts.

Neither the United States, nor \h 9 State of Massachusetts,
could, therefore, when making the constitution, have anticipated
the abrogation of this power ; and if it has been done, it is contrary to the intent of the parties. This is inferable, not only
from what has been stated, but from the fact that these parties have
moved on in their respective spheres for fifty-six years, in the ex.ercise of their respective claims to power, withoat conflict and
without entertaining a suspicion that the State has been enforcing
laws without authority and in violation of right.
It would be a singular result, and one to be deprecated, if, in
giving construction to the constitution, the court should arrive at a
conclusion injurious both to the United States and the States; a
result which both would deplore as hostile to their best interests,
and subversive of the purposes which they had in view when they
-entered into the constitutional compact.
Nothing but a commanding necessity can sanction such a step,
and it never will be taken unless under an imperiously pressing sense
of duty.
With such facts and circumstances as these surrounding it, we
come to the consideration of the question, whether the law of
Massachusettsis constitutional.
The plaintiff in error-assumes the affirmative, and must establish
the fact that it is incompatible with, or repugnant to, the constitution and laws of the United States.
It will not be denied that the -federal government has no powers
except such as are granted to it and are enumerated in the constitution.
On the other hand, it is equally clear and indisputable, that the
States retain in themselves all powers not so granted or prohibited
by the constitution. This is an irresistible inference ; but the
States made it doubly certain, by declaring in an amendment the
fact, in the most clear and explicit terms.
While, therefore, the United States hold the powers which are
granted, the States hold those which are not granted or prohibited,
and both are fully sanctioned and maintained by the constitution.
The plaintiff, therefore, must maintain that Massachusetts has,
in making her law, exercised a power not reserved to her.
. He makes it a question concerning commerce. He contends
-that the law, in effect, regulates foreign trade, the power to do
which is confided to the United States.
The ground assumed is, that .the United States authorize importations, and levy upon them a duty for revenue ; that the right to
sell is incident to the right to import, and cannot be controlled or
Yegulated by the State in such:a manner as to diminish the sales or
to impair the revenue.
The constitution declares, that Congress has power " to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and
-withthe Indian tribes."

JANUARY

TERM, .1847.

License Cases.-Thurlow

523

v. Massachusetts.

These words give all the authority which the United States have
over commerce.
The power is manifestly limited to commerce with foreign nations, commerce among the States, and commerce with the Indian
tribes. The grant covers these three kinds of commerce, and
nothing more.
In this case, commerce with foreign nations alone is to be considered. The domestic commerce is necessarily excluded ; for it
is neither foreign, nor is it trade among the States, nor with the Indian tribes.
This inference is not only apparent from the language of the
constitution, but is fully sustained by authority.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203, the court, in commentThey
ing on inspection laws, employ the following language: -"
form a portion of that immense mass of legislation which embraces
every thing within the territory of a State, not surrendered to the
general government ; all which can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection laws, quarantine laws,
health laws of every description, as well as laws for regulating the
internal commerce of a State, are component parts of this mass.
..... No direct general power over these objects is granted to
Congress ; and consequently they remain subject to State legislation."
Again, in the same case the court speak of the power to regulate the internal trade and commerce of a- State as an acknowledged
.power of the State.
It is, therefore, judicially settled, that the power to regulate the
internal commerce of a State is reserved to and resides in it.
Such being the partition of powers between the States and the
United States, I come to the inquiry, What is the character of the'
law of Mlassachusetts.? Upon what basis' does it stand, and from
what powe5 or right in the State is it derived ? And I shall co4tend that it is a regulation of the internal commerce of the State,
having for its object the preservation of order, morals, and health,
and intended to discourage intemperance and to promote sobriety.
And such being its general characteristics, I shall also contend further, that it falls within that class of laws generally called" police
regulations.
The trade intended to be regulated is completely internal, and
spread over the whole territory of the State. That the regulation
of such a commerce belongs to the State is evident, not only from
the authority cited, but from the language of the court at page 195
of the salne case. " The completely internal commerce of a
State," says Chief Justice Marshall, "then, may be considered as
reserved for the State itself."
The State has furthermore a right to provide for the health of its
citizens by police regulations. In Gibbons v.Ogden, 9 Wheat. 205,

524

SUPREME COU RT.
License

Cases.-Thurlow

v. Wassachuietts.

-the court say of quarantine and healt 9Lws They are considered as flowing from the acknowledged power of the State to provide for the health of its citizens"; again, at page 208, " the
aclknowledged power of a State to regulate its police, its domestic
trade, and to govern its own citizens," is spoken of as unquestioned.
. It may, then, be assumed on authority which does not admit- of
doubt, that a State has a right to regulate its internal commerce,
and to provide for the health and government of its citizens by
sitable laws. That such regulations are considered by this court
to he police laws will not be doubted.
These propositions are sustained by high authority. The State
possesses the undeniable right to regulate its internal trade, and to
maintain municipal or police regulations to "prptect and promote
the welfare of the people.
That a law rdstraining an indiscraninate traffic in wines and
spirits, and designed to protect life and health by promoting temperance and sobriety, is a police law canhot be luestioned.
I The law of Massachusetts being, then, a measure relating
to a
trade completely internal, ind a police regulation, is, in all its aspects, founded- on an acknowledged power which is vested iW the
State by the provisions of the constitution.
This being the highest source of authority, it would seem sufficiently to justify and maintain the law.
But it is contended that ever this foundation may fail a-State in
cases of conflict ; for the law of the United States is supreme, and
must, in such cases, prevail against the admitted right of a State.
Our system is obviously* complicated, because the federal and
State governments extend over the same territory and people, and
act upon the same persons and things. For example, foreign commerce isdestined to become internal, and internal to become foreign.
This flux and reflux from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, brings the laws
into
contact, and the jurisdictions impinge upon each other.
I This
opens the question, Which in such cases shall prevail
?
The answer has been, that federal power in such cases is paramount and supreme. This is sometimes said to be an axiom to
which .State authority must bow in submission, But if we admit
the authority, the question still remains, How far does this implied
supremacy extend over the acknowledged powers of the States?
Is it unlimited, and must a State yield to its touch whenever felt?
No one, I believe, will urge the doctrine to this extremity.
The decisions of this tribunal will establish the fact, that the supremacy of federal power in cases of conflict has boundaries and
limits, and that the action of State laws derived Irom powers reserved to the States is never unconstitutional until it becomes. incompatible with, or repugnant to, the federal laws.
But what is incompatibiIit ? What is repugnancy ? This in-

JANUARY'fER
License Cases.-Thrlow

, 1847.
v. Massachusetts.

quiry often presenus perplexing considerations, because no fixo,
determinate rule can be laid down by which cases can. be tested ;
but each case, as it comes up, is'left to be decided by the facts which
surround it. Whenever State power touches that of the United
States, whoever may profit by it is anxious to make out a case of
;ncompatibility or repugnancy, and. thus every seeming cQnflict is
liable to become a matter of judicial investigation ; and there is a
constant disposition manifested to expana the power of the general
government, aiid to contract that df the States.
We are not, however, without authority which throws no indonsiderable light on this inquiry. The learned commentator upon the
constitution, 1 Com. 432, after an examination of all the authorities, sums up the result :- " In cases of implied limitations or prohibitions of power [and this is one) it is not sufficient to show a
possible or potentalnconvenience. There must be a plain incompatibility, a direct repugnancy, or an extreme inconvenience, leading
irresistibly to the same conclusion."
exercise its power in any way or
a Stateif may
ruleextent,
Under
form,
and this
t& any
its action upon federal power does not
direct repugnancy. The fact
amount to manifest incompatibility or
of incompatibility or repugnancy must not be equivocal, bdt clear
and certain. In cases of incompatibility, it must be apparent thit
the laws of the United States and a State supposed to be in conflict
cannot stand together, or be reconciled or harmonized with each
other. The whole doctrine of repugnancy and incompatibility is
*confined within these narrow limits. It is applied, in fact, only to
cases where the power of a State so acts upon a power of the
United States as substantially to subvert or defeat it. In such
cases only has the supremacy of the federal law been mainL: .d
over constitutional. State power. The. rule clearly implies, in all
cases of doubt, that the-power of the State is to prevail against this
implied right of supremacy. Even potential inconvenience is not
to be regarded, but must be tolerated as long as it falls short of-incompatibility or repugnancy.
It requires but little consideration of the subject to justify these
cautious limits of power ; for if the laws of the State must recede
before those of the United States whenever'they come into contact,
it is manifest that State power would be in imminent danger -of
being. obliterated ; for, as State power yields, federal power must
follow and press upon it. The dangers which' beset. the exercise
of power by sovereignties whose limits of authority are not ascertainable cannot be more forcibly degcribed than in the language of
the late chief justice, in McCullQch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
430. After stating the grounds upon which the decision rested, the
learned judge says -" We are relievel, as we ought to be, from
clashing sovereignty; firo'm interfering powers; from repugnancy
betwee a right in one government to pull down what there is an

526

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

acknowledged right in another to build up ; from the incompatibility
of a right in one government to destroy what there is a right in
another to preserve ; -we are not driven to the perplexing inquiry,
so unfit for the judicial department, what degree of taxation is the
legitimate use, and what degree the abuse, of power." The court
congratulated itselfupon having discovered the limits of sovereignty
without resorting to the implied right of supremacy on the part of
the United States, which necessarily involved the most conflicting
and dangerous considerations.
This case is but one among the many proofs given by this court
of a uniform and anxious desire to give full and free scope to the
powers of the respective governments, and to harmonize, if possible,
their action, without asserting the supreme authority of the federal
constitution over the acknowledged powers of the States. This
can never he done when it subverts the lawful power of the States
without creating alarm, and impairing the stability of the'Union.
The caitious and almost reluctant m ner in which this. court
have applied this doctrine of supremacy over acknowledged State
power is manifest in many of its decisions, which prove incontestably its disposition to avoid such conflict if possible.
It has already been shown. from Gibbons v. Ogden, "that inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description,
as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State,"
originate from powers which are reserved to the States. What is
the character of those laws, and how are they executed ? The
answer will show how far the power of a State may be carried
without incompatibility or repugnancy.
They deal -with foreign commerce, asserting, as will appear by
their piovisions, absolute control over it for certain purposes which
are connected with the public welfare and safety.
The inspection laws authorize the detention and examination of
merchandise, and the imposition of marks which denote its true
character, and often affect its value.
Quarantine laws direct possession to be taken of vessels arriving,
and require them, with their crews, passengers, and cargoes, to be
detained, and forbid intercourse with the shore
The health laws carry with them a similar authority, and provide
not only for detention, but for the purification, and, if necessary, the
destruction of the cargo.
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 443, the court observe,
"that the power to direct the removal of gunpowder is a branch of
the police power which unquestionably remains and ought to remain
with the States." They add, also, that "the removal or destruction
of infectious cr unsound articles is undoubtedly a branch of the same
power."
These laws interfere directly with foreign commerce, asserting a
right to control men, vessels, and cargoes, before a voyage is
completed,

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

BW

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

Harbour laws, ballast laws, &c., are of a similar character, aird
hence it has been supposed that they are regulations of foreign
commerce.
But this court repel this conclusion, and maintain their constitutionality, because they are police regulations of the States, and
derived from a right reserved to make and execute such laws ; and
are not, therefore, regulations of foreign commerce, though, for the
purposes of protecting, life, health, and property, they necessarily
deal with it. The court go farther, and also maintain, that such
laws are not incompatible with or repugnant to the laws of the
United States which relate to foreign commerce, and therefore nQ
objection exists to the exercise of such power by the States over
foreign commerce.
It is manifest from -these authorities, that State power,.and especially police power, may be exercised upon matters within the
jurisdiction and under the control of the United States without incompatibility or repugnance. The protection of life, health, and
property demand it. The right to do it is acknowledged, and
cannot be questioned, unless its exercise defeats or subverts the
power of the United States ; then, and in such cases only, it is
viewed as incompatible or repugnant.
This brings the doctrine ofrepugancy and incompatibility, when
asserted against the rightful power of a State, into narrow limits ;
and it is believed that no case has yet.occurred befdre this court, in
which the power of the United States, because it is supreme, has
been extended by implication so as to defeat or. overrule the acknowledged authority of a State, unless concurrent powers constitute an exception.
It is further manifest, that the right of a State to make police laws,
is unquestioned, because, as the court declare, it is :among the reserved rights. This power, I have shown, has been and is exercised in a great variety of ways, and in many forms, over foreign
commerce.
It is obvious, therefore, that it constitutes the boundaries of
sovereignty, and is paramount to the power of the United States in
all cases, except where it defeats or subverts the granted powers of.
the United States.
N
It is further obvious, that the dourt will not consider a State law,
made-in the exercise of lawful authority,'ind in the exercise "of a
powei" belonging to the State, a law regulating'foreign commerce,
though it may act upop and influence such commerce.:
It is also obvious, that the court has never denied, but, on the
other hand, has always admitted, the right of a State to make police
regulations, to protect life, 'health, and the property of the citizens,
and the right to extend this protection against the dangers incident
to foreign commerce has uniformly been distinctly recognized.
It can-neither be.admitted nor maintained that the United Statds,

528

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

under a general power to regulate foreign commerce, has a right,
without restraint, and in defiance of State powers, to import disease
and pestilence, to fill the country with infamous persons, or to debauch
the public morals. Such is not the design of the constitution ; and
if such a right shall be successfully asserted, it will soon prove that
the federal and State governments cannot exist together.
Such are the restraints which oppose the extension of federal
power, in cases of apparent conflict, on the ground that it is supreme.
A careful examination of the many decision's will prove that the
court has anxiously studied to fix, as far as circumstances will permit, definite boundaries to sovereignty, leaving them to depend as
little as possible upon questions of incompatibility or repugnancy.
The police lairs of the State have uniformly been maintained, on
the ground that Ihe States have a right to make them, and this
right is not to be questioned, although in the exercise of it the laws
and power of the United States are and must be affected, or the
remedy- against alarming evils be incomplete. It seems to me that
the court have practically, and for the best of reasons, placed such
laws on the groand that they emanate from exclusive and independent powers enjoyed by the States.
This position has been gradually approached, with a watchful
solicitude at every step taken in advance.
In New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102, a regxamination of the
authorities was made, and the grounds of tbe opinion there delivered
are stated with great clearness (p. 139).
After discussing the
principles so ably laid down in Gibbons v. Ogden, the learned judge
says: - "We do not place our opinion upon this ground. We
choose rather to plant, ourselves on what we consider impregnable
positions. They are these,'that: a State has the same undeniable
and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons and things within its
territorial limits as any foreign nation, where that jurisdiction is
not surrendered or restrained by the constitution of the United
States.; that, by virtue of this, it is not only th6 right but the
bounden and solemn duty of a State to advance the happiness, the
safety, and prosperity of its people, and to provide for its general
welfare by any and every act of legislation which it may deem conducive to these ends, where the power over the particular subject,
or the manner of its exercise, is not surrendered or restrained in the
manner just stated ; that all those powers Which relate. to merely
municipal legislation, or what may perhaps be more properly called
internal' police, are not thus surrendered or restrained'; and that
consequently, in relation to these, the authority of a State is complete, unqualified, and exclusive."
This authority defines the great question of boundary between the
sovereignties with an accurracy which cannot be mistaken, so far as
regards police laws.
The powers mnot conceded or prohibited by the constitution re-

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

529

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Alassachusetts.

min in the States unchanged, unaltered, and unimpaired, and as fully
in force as if no constitution had been made.
None of those powers which relate to municipal legislation or
internal police have been surrendered or restrained, but are complete, unqualified, and exclusive.
If they are complete, the State has. the whole and the sole enjoy- ment.
If they are unqualified, they remain as they were, unaltered and
unchanged.
If they are exclusive, there can be no participation in them by
another.
The inference is 'irresistible, that such powers are independent
of and paramount to the constitution of the United States, and
therefore not subject to any supreme power of the federal government in cases of conflict.
This is but carrying out the provisions of the instrument, as they
apparently stand.
It is manifest, that the laws "of the two governments must meet
and mix, because the jurisdictions commingle, and the question is,
Did not the framers of the constitution intend it should be so ?
When they made that instrument, and gave to the United States
the control over foreign commerce, and reserved to the States the
police powers, they knew that life and health and property in -the
States must be provided for ; and they knew then, as well as we
do now, that it could not be done without an interference with
foreign commerce. - Did they not intend, then, when they granted
this power to the United States, that it should be held and enjoyed
subject to the exercise of these reserved powers in the States ?
Such at least is the -effect of this decision, if language has any
meaning ; and this case does little more than carry out the principles which had.been previously maintained in practice.
The police laws had in fact everywhere been maintained against
the supreme power of the United States, notwithstanding this obvious interference.
The pressure of this principle of supremacy was forced upon the
States with such zeal, and the supposed cases of incompatibility became so frequent, that the exigencies of the times demanded a
positive rule to the extent that it could be safely established.
The step was taken eleven years ago, and what inconvenience has
been experienced ? In what has the power of the United States
been impaired or disturbed ? Who has sensibly felt any change ?
Whose interests have not been well provided for, and safely protected ? Much has been said and sung by the theorists ; but the
laws have been well harmonized, and the public have been well
satisfied.
In regard to constitutional principle, this case is decisive of the
one under consideration, as it admits the authority of a State to
voL. v.
45

530

SUPREME

COURT.

I.ikense Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

maintain police regulations in regard to its internal affairs, whatever
may be their effect or influence upon the laws of the United States.
All this is conceded when the power. of the State is declared to
be complete, unqualified, and exclusive. Commonwealth v. Kimball, 24 Pick. 365 ; Pierce in error v. New Hampshire, Law Reporter, Sept. 1845.
I have thus far, in speaking of constitutional power, assumed that
the law of Massachusetts is a police measure, made in good faith,
to regulate the traffic in intoxicating drinks.
This has, however, been questioned, on the supposition that it is,
in fact, a regulation of foreign commerce.
It becomes necessary to look into its provisions, to ascertain
whether they are adapted to the professed object, or designed to
cover up a specious fraud.
The act requires all retailers, who sell in less quantities than
twenty-eight gallons at a time, to first obtain a license from the proper authority.
The retailers are tavern-keepers, and small grocers, iv-ing
wherever there is travel and population.
The design- of the law is manifestly to- prevent tippling and disorder, by promoting temperance and sobriety ; and, whether it be a
regulation of trade or police, or both, relates to affairs completely
internal.
Is this a suitable matter to engage legislative attention ? Does
such a traffic demand restraint, or does the legislature employ it as
a pretext to regulate foreign commerce ?
I have already dwelt sufficiently on this point, and have proved
that intemperance is everywhere deprecated and deplored, that the
world has raised its voice in remonstrance against an indiscriminate
traffic in wines and spirits, and it seems to me that if health, morals,
usefulness, and respectability are worthy of public consideration, and
merit protection against an insidious foe, the legislature would be
criminally guilty in wholly disregarding a matter of such obvious
importance; and that the exercise of the power needs no justification.
But are the provisions of the law suited to the professed object ?
The evident end in view is to place the trade in safe and suitable
hands, in the custody of those who will use without abusing it, and
mitigate, instead of aggravating, the evils incident to it.
To carry this principle out, the law authorizes the county commissioners, who are elected by the people, and supposed to be an
exponent of public opinion, to license as many innholders and retailers as the public good requires. Can any one desire more ?
If suitable persons are to be selected, the mode is probably as unobjectionable as any which can be devised ; but if no seleqtion is to
be made, as is contefided, and all persons are to have a right to demand a license, a law, with such provisions, would cease to be a
regulation, and had better.be abolished.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

531

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

Another feature of the law is, that it makes no discrimination between foreign and domestic wines and spirits, but deals with all
alike. This would seem to furnish sufficient proof that it has no
special reference to the importing trade, but aims at a general regulation,. and is designed to promote temperance and not to regulate
foreign commerce.
When these facts are taken in connection with the antiquity of
the policy, no reasonable doubt can exist as to the good faith and
sincerity of purpose in the legislature.
But it is objected to the law, that the commissioners may so exercise their discretion as to impair or defeat the revenue.
This argument supposes that judicial officers will abuse their authority. But it is not a question as to the manner of using power,
but of right.
A discretion is reposed in all judicial tribunals, where facts are to
be ascertained as the foundation of a judgment. In all such cases,
the law may be perverted ; but the abuse is proof of misconduct in
the officer, and not of the unconstitutionality of the law.
Whether an applicant for a license is a suitable persohi, and
whether the public good requires the grant to be made, are facts to
be ascertained, which must depend upon evidence ; and the questions cannot be decided without an exercise of judgment.
It is difficult to comprehend how a selection of suitable persons,
or of suitable places, can be made, without the, exercise of so much
discretion as such a decision implies. There is, in fabt, no intermediate ground between this and indiscrimiiate traffic.
But it is further objected to this system, that its whole tendency
is to reduce consumption, and to diminish the revenue.'
The State has a right to regulate its internal trade, and to maintain
police laws. No condition is annexed to this right, which requires
the State to exercise the power without impairing the revenue upon
imports. The law may have some remote effect on the revenue ;
but what law or principle of the constitution forbids it ? There
can be no repugnancy or incompatibility till the powers of the United
States to raise revenue is substantially defeated.
Of such a state of things there is no proof. On the contrary,
the license laws have been in operatioh for fifty-six years with the
revenue system, and no sensible or noticeable effect has been produced ; not enough eveh to make it a topic of discussion.
If the whole revenue from this source were dried up, it could have
little tendency to defeat or control the financial power of the United
States, which is too broad and ample in resources to be materially
affected by any such legislation.
But the argument proves too much, - it denies to a State the
right to make a law.which tends to impair the revenue of the United
S tates.
The right of taxation is concurrent, and may be and is exercised

532

SUPREME COURT.
Livense Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

by both governments upon the same persons and property. This is
an undeniable right in a State, and yet it is manifest that it cannot
be exercised without impairing the resources of the United Stafes.
Slaves are taxable property, and cannot be emancipated without
diminishing the resources of revenue ; but will it be contended that
a law bf emancipation is unconstitutional for that cause ?
So, too, laws which establish market-days, and forbid sales upon
the Sabbath, have a tendency to restrain indiscriminate traffic.
Without, however, pursuing this reasoning, which might be easily
extended, I deny that a diminution in the consumption of wines and
spirits raises any presumption that the general revenue is impaired
by the process. - On the contrary, my belief is, that, if the facts
were to undergo the severest scrutiny, it would turn out quite otherwise. It has never been maintained that a free use of wines and
spirits has any tendency to promote public .prosperity, nor is it denied that an excessive use is manigestly prejudicial. There can be
no doubt, that where abstinence or severe temperance prevails accumulation is increased and the means of subsistence enlarged.
These ordinarily go to support existence, and, creating a greater expenditure in the necessaries and comforts of life, con:ibute in other
forms to the revenue, giving a gain instead of a loss.
But it is urged that the commissioners may press their powers so
far as to exclude consumption ; and if they should, the revenue
would probably suffer in no respect, as the general prosperity would
be improved.
But, aside from this consideration, I apprehend there is no objection to such a step. Police laws may be carried to any exteni
which the public welfare demands. If the health, the morals, and
the welfare of the public demand the exclusion of an evil, there i',
a right to shot it out, regardless of revenue and of private interests
This power may and should be exercised just to the extent which thpublic exigency demands.
Such is the long-established practice in regard to health. If tlf
cargo of a vessel is infected and dangerous,-it is destroyed ; and al
revenue and private interests are sacrificed for the public safety.
Gunpowder is required to be landed and stored in a way which saves
life and property from jeopardy. Ballast is required to be deposited where it does no mischief to fiavigation. The publication, by
sale or otherwise, of obscene hooks, prints, pictures, &c., is an
indictable offence.
Yet all such laws are undeniably constitutional, and are maidtained
as police regulations on the ground that the public health, morals,
and property demand protection. The right to give this protection
has never been successfully questioned ; and it is evident that legal
provisions in such behalf must be such as, to meet t'he emergency.
If excessive indulgence in the use of intoxicating drinks bd an evil,
and no one will question it, it is the right of the legislature to guard

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.-Thurlow

533

v. Massachusetts.

against it by wise and prudent regulations;, and such regulations obviously fall within the principle which sustains the laws referred to.
If the evil be such as to demand stringent provisions, reaching to
exclusion, there 'is no constitutional objection to such legislation.
But it is further urged, and some reliance seems to be placed
upon it, that the county commissioners of Essex do in fact suppress
sales by refusing to grant any licenses.
If such were the fact, the presumption would be, that they have
done it because their duty required it, unless the contrary is proved.
In New York v. Miln, the court pronounce pauperism to be a
moral pestilence ; but pauperism is but one of the many plagues
which follow intemperance.
In this case, however, there is no proof of such an exercise of
power by the commissioners. It does not appear that the plaintiff
in error, or any one else, ever applied for and was refused a license, and an alleged abuse of power cannot be presumed in the
absence of all proof. Before the plaintiff can lay any foundation
for just cause of complaint, he must prove that he applied, being a
suitable person for such an employment, and was refused, when
the public good demanded that a license should be granted.
He makes no such case on the record, but places the law itself
on trial, instead of the administration of it, and relies upon the proof
which it contains on its face of its unconstitutionality.
The commissioners are not and cannot be placed on trial by this
record, and whenever their conduct shall be arraigned in a proper
manner, I have no doubt they will justify their decisions, whatever
they may be.
Another objection which has been urged against the law of Massachusetts is hostility to the policy of the United States.
What'is the policy of the United States on this subject ? Are
we to infer, without proof, that the United States are not equally
interested with the State in promoting good morals, in protecting
health, in preventing the waste of property "and the increase of
crime ? How can the United States have less at stake than the
State, or be less interested in cherishing the virtues which make a
good population, or in discouraging the vices which lead to the opposite result ?
On what ground can the promotion of sobriety and temperance
be hostile to the policy of the United'States ? Is it their purpose
to debauch public morals, to encourage a lavish waste of property,
and to multiply crimes, from the mercenary consideration of deriving
revenue from a process of degradation ?
Does the policy of the United States war with the best interests
of society, and are they anxious for, revenue at such sacrifices ?
What proof is there of such an unnatural state of things ?
It is supposed, that the United States countenance an indiscriminate traffic, because they permit wines and spirits to be imported,
45*

534

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow

v. Massachusetts.

and lay upon them a duty. This naked fact is alleged to be evidence of a declared purpose to raise the utmost revenue which can
be realized, and that a law interfering with this design is unconstitutional ?
If this be so, then the law of Massachusetts which punishes
habitual drunkehness is unconstitutional, fr it diminishes consumption; and the law.which authorizes the appointment of guardians
over such persons must share the same fate, as well as all other
laws which in any way regulate trade so as to impose any re'straint
upon it.

But there is more decisive and satisfactory evidence of the policy
of the United States than such remote, uncertain inferences.
In 1838, Congress invited the army to abandon the use of the
spirit ration, and offered by law a substitute to all who would accept
it, in sugar and coffee; and the same principle has been carried
into the navy, and has met with approbation in both branches of the
service.
In 1813, Congress passed a law, 3 Stat. at Large, 73, in which
there is a clear and decisive expression of opinion. This law imposed internal taxes, and the collectors are authorized to grant licenses to sell at retail wines, distilled spirits, or merchandise, "provided always that no license shall be ganted to any person to sell
wines, distilled spirituous liquors, or merchandise as aforesaid, who

is prohibited to sell the same by any State."
Here is a clear expression of the views of Congress in regard
to State legislation and State policy. It shows the deference and
respect which it considered to be due to so important and delicate
a subject, by conforming its legislation to that of the States, and
adopting this policy. The law is now repealed, because the tax is
abolished, but the opinion loses none of its weight or importance
from that consideration.
Again; it has been suggested that the revenue laws, which permit
wines to -be imported in bottles, and brandy in'
kegs of fifteen gallons, are evidence that Congress intended to confer a right to sell
in such quantities, and therefore the law of Massachusetts is repugnant to them.
.This argument rests .on the supposition that Congress has the
right to regulate the internal trade of a State, while it is admitted
that States alone possess this right. If, therefore, such were the
intention of Congress, the acts would be void for unconstitutionality ; for the federal government cannot claim a power denied to it.
But there is no reason for beieving that those provisions were
made with reference to any suc-h object. They relate wholly to
the custom-house and to exportation. Such is known to be the
history of the fifteen-gallon kegs, and the same is doubtless true of
wines.
It is a regulation of convenience, and designed to keep the im-

JANUARY
License

TERl',

1847.

535

Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

port trade in a form to prevent smuggling and frauds, either in importation or exportation.
These considerations go to maintain the conclusion, that the law
of M[assachusetts was made in good faith, and for the purposes
indicated by it ; that it is derived from -powers distinctly reserved
to the State, and-is a regulation both of the internal commerce and
police ; that its provisions are adapted to the purposes for which
they are designed ; that it is not a regulation of foreign commerce, or of the revenue system, and does not affect either unlawfully ; and that it is not hostile to the policy or interests of
the United States.
It is evident, also, that it is sustained as a police measure by the
whole current of authority antecedent to, as well as by, the case of
New York v. Miln.
The plaintiff in error next contends, that an importer of wines
and spirituous liquors has a right to sell them in the same vessels in
which they are imported. He then alleges, that wines may be imported in bottles, and brandy in kegs of fifteen gallons, while the
law of Massachusetts prohibits the sale in less quantity than twentyeight gallons, without a license.
For the purposes of this case I might concede the position, for
the plaintiff is not indicted for selling wines in the original bottle, or
brandy in the original keg ; but for dealing out spirituous liquors by
retail in small quantities, fromu a quart or pint to a glffon.
The record does not show that he is an importer and vender in
the original package or vessel, or that he ever had -wine in brttles or
brandy in kegs of fifteen gallons. If, therefore, the original importer
has such a privilege, this plaintiff can make no pretension of right
to it.
But from what authority is this right to sell in the original vessel
derived ?
The laws of the United States do permit the importation of
wines in bottles, and brandy in kegs of fifteen gallons. Formerly,
brandy could not'be brought in, in vessels of less capacity than
ninety gallons ; but the quantity was reduced, as is well known, to
favor the export to Mexico, where so large a quantity could not be
taken into the interior upon pack-horses.
But if these laws were intended, as is'supposed, to regulate the
internal trade of the States, they could not"be sustained ; as Congress has no power or right to regulate that traffic. They have,
however, never been understood to have any such bearing, but to
be what they purport, regulations of imports and exports.
But the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, is supposed
to give some support to this position.
A law of Maryland forbid importers and venders in the original
package the right of selling vithout first obtaining a license, for
which fifty dollars were exacted. Brown, being such an importer

536

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thurlow

v. Massachusetts.

and vender, violated the la;w, wab prosecuted, and the case finally
decided by this court.
The court held, first, that the law of Maryland was a revenue act
imposing a tax ;
Secondly, that such a tax, imposed upon the importer as such,
and before any right of sale could be exercised, was a duty on
imports, and expressly prohibited by the plainest terms of the
constitution, which forbids the States the right to lay duties on
imports ;
Thirdly, that such a duty, so levied, is a regulation of foreign
commerce, and for that reason also unlawful.
The decision goes no further than to deny the power of a State
to impose a tax upon the importer, as such, before he has made a
sale ; because this is, in effect, a duty on imports.
There is nothing in the case which questions the right of a State
to exercise police power over imports and importers, for any of the
great purposes to which such legislation is directed.
The principles which govern the decision are laid down with a
clearness which cannot be mistaken.
The exemption from taxation is limited to the importer, and to a
sale by him in the original package. The mischievous consequences
of a more extended exemption were foreseen and guarded against, in
order to leave the internal affairs of the States untouched.
The court, to prevent, all misapprehensions, declare that a sale of
such goods, a breaking up of the packages, or an appropriation of
the articles to use, or any similar act, mixes the goods with the mass
of property in the State, and extinguishes the privilege.
The exemption is, therefore, limited to the inporter and vender
by the original package, and is denied to all others.
The authority, consequently, furnishes no support or countenance
to the case under consideration, as the plaintiff was neither an importer or vender by the original package.
But if the plaintiff were an importer, instead of a retailer, the case
of Brown v. Maryland would furnish no justification for a violation
of the law of Massachusetts.
The law is not a revenue act, but a police measure. It imposes
no tax upon imports, and therefore does not fall within the prohibitory clause of the constitution.
The difference between the laws is this :.the State of Maryland
exercised a power prohibited ; while the State of Massachusetts
founds its legislation upon one which is conceded.
The health laws, quarantine laws, ballast laws, &c.,'prove that
the police power may be extended to imports and importers, if the
public safety or welfare demands it. If I am right, iherefore, in
assuming that the traffic in wines and spirits is a suitable object for
regulation, the power of the State cannot be successfully questioned
by importers and. venders in the original package or vessel.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.-Thurlow

537

v. Massachusetts.

If, then, the plairitiff had proved all the facts which have been
assumed, they would avail him nothing.
All the important questions which have been raised in the case
have now been considered, imperfectly, no doubt ; but, having been
brought to the notice of the court, they will receive the consideration which their importance deserves.
The course bf reasoning pursued is intended to establish the following positions : 1. That the traffic in wines and spirituous liquors has, in the
ptiblic judgment,-as expressed through ages and centuries, demanded
restraint and regulation.
That, the United States having no powers to impose such restraint, if it be denied to the States, the right is abolished.
That such a result would be alike injurious to both parties, and
desired by neither.
That, under such circumstances, the court would be justified in
declaring the law void only by commanding necessity, and that no
such emergency exists.
2. That, in the partition of powers between the federal and State
governments, the rights of the former are granted and enumerated
in the constitution, while the latter retain all powers not granted or
prohibited by that instrument.
That the grant of a right to regulate foreign commerce excludes
the right to regulate domestic commerce, which is left in the States.
That the right to make police regulations is also left in the States.
That the law of Massachusetts belongs to these classes, ana is
derived from lawful, constitutional power vested in the State.
3. That, if the right of a -State to maintain police laws is complete and unqualified, there can be no constitutional conflict with
the laws of the United States, as the power is absolute and supreme.
But whether this be so or not, the right of the State to regulat its
internal traffic and police is acknowledged, and can never be questioned, except in cases of manifest incompatibility or direct repugnancy, and there is no proof that the law of Massachusetts has
any such action, effect, or influence on the powers or laws of the
United States.
4. That the United States having a right to regulate foreign commerce is bounded by the point where such commerce becomes
internal, and cannot follow it for the purposes of regulation or control after it becomes subject to State authority, without usurping the
constitutional power of the State.
5. That the plaintiff in error was indicted and convicted for
retailing spirits without a license, being neither an importer nor vender of such spirits in the same vessels and quantities as imported.
That if he had been such an importer and vender, it would avail
him nothing, as the question before the court does not relate to
taxation, or fall within the prohibitory clause of the constitution, but

538

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Thuflow v. Massachusetts.

regards the right of .the State to regulate its internal commerce and
police after the work of the United States is completed, so far as
foreign commerce is concerned, and their power exhausted.
6. That, in whatever aspect this case is viewed and considered,
the law of Mlassachusetts cannot be drawn into doubt by the severest
scrutiny-, nor can the power of the United States be made to reach
or control it without a manifest invasion of the rights reserved to the
State by'the terms of'the constitution.
The counsel thei closed his remarks by adverting to the importance which the question had acquired by being long a subject of
earnest controvdrsy and agitation. Many prosecutions were now
pending, and, the public being anxious to be relieved from this state
of suspense,.he hoped the matter would be brought to a speedy and
final issue. What .that'issue would be, it did not become him to
anticipate ; but he would venture to give assurance that the people
of Massachusetts would acquiesce in it, and give their support to the
law as expounded by this tribunal, to which they looked at all times
with the deference and respect due to those who settle the greatest
of all questions, the boundaries of power.
.Afr. Webster,-in reply, said that he agreed with the learned counsel whb had just, concluded his argumeit in many of the positions
which he laid down. It was true that the retail trade should be
regulated, and that intemperance was a great evil. Even if he differed from the State on the policy of these laws, be claimed
neither for himself nor the court a power to review her decision
upon that point. The State was the sole and uncontrolled judge
of her policy. But the, question here was one of authority, and
not policy. Has -Massachusetts the power to pass such laws ?
Whether she has or not,.it is useless to inquire into her motives'for
passing them: It is admitted by all, that the United States have
power to regulate commerce; and it is also admitted by all, that the
States have certain police powers. So far, there is no difference
of opinion. But-the learned counsel says that these powers stand
upon -equal ground, both resting on sovereignty; and his inference
is, that, in case of conflict, one has as much right to stand as the
other. Here our difference of opinion commentes. We-say that
these powers do not stand upon equal elevation, but, if there be a
conflict between them, the State law must yield ; because the constitution says that, acts of Congressg, passed within the scope of the
constitutional power of Congress, are the supreme law of the land.
There can be no conflict.' The State Jaw must recede. It has
been so settled by this court. In 3 Wheat. 209, 210, it is so laid
down,' in the very terms wlich I use. Let us see, therefore,
whether -both laws, that is to say, the State lav and the acts of
Congress, can stand. What are they ?
The former laws of Massachusetts made it obligatory.to grant

JANUARY TERM. 1847.

539

License Cases.-Thurlow v. Massachusetts.

licenses. The phrhse was "authorized and directed" to grant,
&c. But under the act of 1837 they may be withheld altogether,
and the fact is, that for some years past none have been granted.
Now there is no difference, in substance, between an absolute prohibition of licenses by law, and a grant of power to another body to
withhold them. In both cases, the same result is produced by the
action of the same authority, namely, the State. What is this result ? It is, that no person can sell liquor in a less quantity than
twenty-eight gallons.
What are the laws of Congress ? They are, that brandy can be
imported in casks of fifteen gallons. 4 Statutes at Large, 235;
ibid. 373.
What is the right of the importer after complying with these laws ?
Does the right to sell follow the right to import ? This court has
already answered the question. In 12 Wheat. 433, it is said, " There is no difference between the power to prohibit sales and the
power to prohibit importation. None would be imported if it could
not be sold." There is no exemption, by the law of Massachusetts,
in favor of the iniporter himself. He cannot sell without a licetse.
All are included within the law. It was said by the counsel on the
other side, that the United States have not complained of any infringement upon their authority. But this makes no difference.
Cases are always brought here by individuals who complain of a violation of their rights. It was also said, that Congress was bound to
preserve and enforce the observance of moral duties. But if Congress does not prohibit'a particular act, the-inferencle is, that it does
not think proper so to do. It remains to be shown that penalties
axe the best mode of enforcing temperance. Father Matthew does
not think so. ,The States may pursue this policy if they choose,
provided they do not interfere with vested rights. There are two
things which Massachusetts has not done, both of which it may be
wished that she had :. 1. She has not presented a memorial to Congress to prohibit
the importation of liquor in small quantities.
2. She-has not prohibited the domestic distillation of spirits. In
1840, five millions of gallons were distilled within her limits. Of
this we do not complain. But if she has a right to pass the law
now under consideration, she has also a right to exempt domestic
distilled spirits from its operation. What, then, will be tte condition of things ? It will be, that her restrictions will be placed ex'elusively upon that article which Congress havd said shall be subject
to no restriction.

540

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-

Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

JOEL FLETCHER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF'
RHODi ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

This case was very similar to the preceding one.

The pr:ncipal

difference was in the admission of the'fact, that the brandy, for the
sale of which the plaintiff in error was indicted, was duly imported
into the United States, the duty upon it paid, and that it was purchased by Fletcher from the original importer.
The following admission of facts was filed in 'the ciuse :
"It is admitted, in the above case, that the liquors-alleged in
said indictment to have been sold by the defendant, in -violation of
the act of this State, entitled,
An act enabling town councils to
grant licenses for-the retailing strong liquors, and for other purposes,'
was brandy, the growth, produce, and manufacture of the kingdom
of France ; which said brandy was duly imported into the United
States at the port of Boston, in the district of Massachusetts, for
the purpose of sale in the markets of the United States, and the
duties levied thereon by virtue of the -act of Congress of the United
States, approved thb 80th day of August, A. D. 1842, entitled,
' An act to provide revenue from imports, and to change anA modify existing laws imposing duties on imports, and for other purposes,'
were duly paid to the collector of the said port of Boston ; that
said defendant bought said brandy of the importer thereof for the
purpose of sale ; and, in pursuance of said purpose, did, at the
times alleged in said indictment, sell the same, at said Cumberland,
without license first had and obtained from. the town council of the
town' of Cumberland.
"It is further agreed that the town council of said town of Cumberland have refused to grant- any license for the year ensuing the
Thursday next following the first Wednesday in April, A. ]D. 1845,
for retailing strong liquors-in any quantities, having been instructed
by the electors of said town, in town meeting assembled, not to
grant any licenses for the purpose aforesaid."
It is not necessary to recite the whole of the laws of the State,
as they were very similar to those of Massachusetts. The following onewill he sufficient :"An

Act in Addition to an Act, entitled, ' An Act enabling the
Town Councils to grant Licenses, and for other Purposes.'
"It is enacted by the General Assembly as follows : "Section 1. No licenses shall be granted for the retailing of
wines or strong liquors in any town or city in this State, when the
electors in such town or city, qualified to vote for general officers,
shall, at the annual town or ward meetings held for the election of
town or city officers, decide that no such licenses for retailing as
aforesaid shall be granted for that year."

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

541

License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

Fletcher was iqdicted upon two counts. The first was for selliffg
strong liquor, to wit, rum, gin, and brandy, by retail, in a less quantity than ten gallons, without license ; and the second, for selling,
and suffering to be sold, in his possessions, ale, wine, and other
strong liquors, by retail, &c., &c.
Upon this indictinent he was convicted, and the case brought from
the Supreme Court of Rhode Island to this court. The assignment of errors by the counsel of Fletcher was as follows :
.qfssignment of Errors."United States of America, Supreme Court:- Joel Fletcher,
Plaintiff in error, v. State of Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations, Defendant in error.
" On a judgment of the Supreme Court, begun and holden at
Providence, within and for the county of Proviidence and State of
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, on the thiird Monday of
September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and forty-five, wherein the said State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, by Joieph M. Blake, Attorney-General of said
State, is prosecutor, and the said Joel Fletcher is defendant, the
said Joel Fletcher, upon a writ of error upon said judgment, returnable to the next term of-the Supreme Court for the United
States, to be begun and holden at the city of Washington, in the
District of Columbia, on the first Monday of December, in the
year of our Lord oe thousand eight hundred and forty-five, assigns
for error in the records of process and judgment aforesaid, founded
on certain statutes of the said State of Rhode .Island and Providence Plantations, and the construction thereof by the said Supreme Court, the following, to wit : - That the judgment rendered
in the Supreme Court of said State in this case, it being the highest court of law and equity of the said State in which a decision
could be had in said case, should be reversed, for the reasons following, viz.: - That the act of the General Assembly of said State
of Rhode Island and ,Providence Plantations, entitled, ' An act
enabling town councils to grant licenses for retailing strong liquors,
and for other purposes,' and the act entitled, ' An act in addition
to an act, entitled,. An act enabling town councils to grant licenses
for retailing strong liquors, and for other purposes,' and appended
hereto and set out as a part of the record in the said cause upon
which said judgment was founded, and also the opinion and judgment of said Supreme Court of said State of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations, in the application and construction of said
acts to -Lie proof submitted in said cause, are void, the sane being
repugnant to that clause of the eighth section of the constitution of
the United States which provides, -' That the Congress shall have
power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to
pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general
VOL. V.

46

542

SUPREME

COURT.

Liceiise Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

welfare of the United States ; but all duties, imposts, and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States ' ; and are also repugnant to that clause- of the said eighth section of said constitution
which provides as follows.:-' The Congress shall have power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes ' ; and are also repugnant to that
clause of the tenth section of said coustitution of the United States
which provides as follows : - "No State shall, without the consent
of Congress, lay any imposts or*duties on imports and exports except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection
laws,' and the acts of Congress, in pursuance of the aforesaid several clauses of said constitution of the United States now existing
in full force, which objections were, at the trial of said cause before said court, taken by the said Fletcher in his defence, and were
overruled by said court. There is error also in this, to wit, that,
by the record aforesaid, it appears that the judgment aforesaid, in
form aforesaid given, was given for the said State of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations against the said Joel Fletcher ;
whereas; by the law of the land, the sail judgment ought to have
been given for the said Fletcher agains: the said State ; and the
said Joel Fletcher prays that the judgment aforesaid, for the errors
aforesaid, and other errors in the record and proceedings, and the
matters herein set forth, may be reversed, annulled, and held for
nothing, and that he may ble restored to all things which he has lost
by occasion of said judgment.

Jon'bL FI.ETOHnR,

By

JOHN WHIPPLE,

and

SAMUEL A iEs,

His .Alttorneys."
The cause was argued by Mr. rmes and 1ir. Whipple, for the
plaintiff in error, and Jltr. R. W. Greene, for the State.
.Ames and Whipple, for the plaintiff in- error, read and .commented on the various acts of the General Assembly of the State
of Rhode Island, in relation to the licensing of taverns, ale-houses,
and the like, and the sale of spirituous liquors thefein, commencing
in the year 1647, and coming down to the year 1824, for the
purpose of showing, that, from the earliest period in the history of
the Colony to ,the last-named period in the history of the State of
Rhode Island, her policy had been uniform on this subject, and
sAnilar to that of inostChristian and civilized countries, and of -all
the Colonies and States of the Union, - that is, to license and
regulate the sale of spirituous liquors, that it might be consistent
withthe+preservation of good order,- and with the Christian virtue
of tomperf-e , 'and not to inhibit it, in enforcement of,,-he Mahometan -rule (f abstinence.
They sbovihd' that .the licenses
grantedl by the' munwipal autorities ofthe various towns of Rhode

JANUARY TERM; 1847.

543

License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

Island for the keeping of taverns and the retailing of strong liquors
had been a source of revenue to the towns and to the State, to aid
in the maintenance of the police of the State ; and insisted, that,
in the fair construction of the acts empowering the town officers-to
grant them, the words " may grant" were legally construed "must
or shall grant," according to the well-known general rule of so
construing.the word "may," when used in a public act or municipal charter to impart an authority to public officers, in the exercise
of which the public interest or private rights were concerned ; and
that the .practice of the authorities of the towns of Rhode Island
had always concurred with this well-known rule of legal construction. To this point they.cited, Backwell's case, 1 Vernon, 152;
Rex v. Barlow, 2 Salk. 609 ; S. 0., Carthew,'293, 294 ;'King
v.-Inhabitants of Derby, 8kinneri 370 ; Magdalen College case, 3
Atk. 166; King v. Mayor and Jurats of Hastings, I Dowl. &
Ryl. 149; Newburgh Turnp. Co. v.Miller, 5 Johns. C. R. 101,
113, 114; Ex parte Simopton, 9 Porter's Ala. R. 390.
They then showed, that, under the influence of what is called
the temperance reform, a'new principle had been introduced into
the legislation of Rthode Island on this subject, which, after numerous fluctuations, had, in Jandary, 1845, settled the law, if indee-d
it was settled, in the shape-of -the act of January, 1845, which in
substance forbids in any town the salq of all strong liquors in less
quantities than ten gallons, without license first had from the towti
council of the- town, and provides, that if, on the day appoint.
ed for the election of toWn officers, a majority of the electors of
a town voting on the subject shall vote to grant, or-not to grant,
licenses for the ensuing municipal year, the town council of the
.town were irrevocably bound during the year to obey the instruction.
They admitted that a law regulating the sale of strong liquors
under a license for the sale, even though a bonus was required for'
the license, was valid.; but that a law like the present, in its purpose, end, and operation, as well as in its form, substantially and
practically prohibitory of the sale, was, in its application to the
case at bar, - in which the liquor sold was brandy imported from
France, upon which, under the act of Congress of 1842, entitled,
"An Act to provide revenue from imports, and to change and
modify existing laws imposing duties on imports, and for other purposes," the duties had been regularly levied and paid, -void, as
repugnant to that act,. both as a revenue measure upon which the
expenditures of the government of the United States were based,
and as a regulation 'of the commerce of the United States with
France.
Though they maintained the exclusive power of Congress, under
the constitutiqn, to regulate commerce with foreign nations, as well
as among the States and with the Indian tribes, - as required by the
necessities of the country at the time of its formation and adoption

544

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

as new, - to preserve proper commercial relations abroad, and for
the prosperity and peace of the several States, as well as that an
adequate revenue might be derived from duties on imports, they
waived the discussion of the exclusiveness of this power as an abstract power in Congress, in the present case, for a double reason because Congress had exercised it in the subsisting act of 1842,
and because the act of Rhode Island could in no proper sense be
said to be an exercise of the power to regulate foreign commerce.
They admitted that an act of a State, to come in conflict with
the exclusive power of Congress to regulate foreign commerce,
when not exercised, must of itself be an exercise of that power ;
but maintained, that any law pertaining to the mere police of a
State might come in conflict with a commercial regulation of Congress ; and, if it did, musi, so far as it did, yield to the law of
Congress, as the supreme law of the land, when passed in pursuance of the constitution. They were not aware, until the doctrine
had been boldly advanced by the counsel for Massachusetts, in the
preceding case, - tried with this by order of the court, - that it had
been "a growing opinion," and still less, that by the decision of
this court in New York v. Miln, I1 Peters, 139, 141, it had become "the settled law" of this court and of the land, that in all
such cases of conflict the rule of the constitution was reversed, and
that the law of Congress became subject to the law of the State,
as to the supreme law of the land, and that the clause of the constitution asserting the supremacy of the constitution, and of the laws
and treaties of the United States made under it, applied only to
the case of concurrent powers ; nor did they so understand that
case. They maintained, that the doctrine thus announced was little
short of absurdity, since it admitted the supremacy of the law of
iJongress in the case of concurrent powers, -in
the exercise of
which the governments of the States and the government of the
United States enjoyed, as it were, a joint empire, and where, from
the very fact that the powers were concurrent, they could never, in
a constitutional sense, be said to conflict, and so there was no
room for the supremacy in question, - and denied the supremacy of
the United States in the legitimate exercise of its exclusive powers,
making the United States the slave of the States in its own exclusive dominions, under a constitution which declared, without
limitation or reserve, that its just power should be supreme, not
only over the laws, but even the constitutions, of the States. Upon
this question they appealed from conservative Massachusetts to
democratic Virginia, and cited the 44th Paper of the" Federalist,
p. 183, Gideon's edition, in which Mr. Madis6n, in commenting
upon the clause of the constitution in question, concludes his defence against the only objection th at was made to it-- that it rendered the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States supreme
over the constitutions of the States - with this statement of the re-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

545

Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

In fine, the world
sult if this supremacy had not been given :-I
would have seen, for the first time, a system of government founded on an inversion of the fundamental principles of all government;
it would have seen the authority of the whole society everywhere
subordinate to the authority of the parts ; it would have seen a
monster, in which the head was under the direction of the members."
In this case, a supremacy over the constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States was claimed for every, even the most
petty, police law of a: State, or even a town or city, when that
constitution and those laws and treaties were made supreme over
the constitution of the State by which, or under the authority of
which, the police law was passed. They commented upon the
case of New York v. Miln, for the purpose of showing thfi the
general language there used by Mr. Justice Barbour in deliverifig
the opinion of the court, from which the strange doctrine in question had been inferred, should, according to the rule in this respect
laid down by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 399, be restrained to the case before the court, which,
by the decision of the court, involved no conflict of the powers of
the government of the State of New York with those of the government of the United States, and, by the illustrations given of the
meaning of the language, could be fairly applied only to cases where
no conflict existed. Upon this point, they cited also the opinions
of Mr. Chief Justice Taney, and of Mr. Justice McLean, in the
subsequent case of Groves et al. v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 505,
'509, members of the court at the time the opinion in New York v.
Miln was delivered, and concurring in that opinion, for the purpose
of showing thit they could not have understood the language in
question in the sense contended for.
(Mr. Justice Wayne here declared his entire dissent from the
general opinions expressed in the language in question, and even
declared that- he had no. recollection that such language was in the
opinion of the court in that case at the time it recaived his concurrence.)
They concluded upon this point, that if any persons really held
the doctrine in questio:,, upon the supposition that it was necessary
for the maintenance of certain peculiar institutions of some of the
States, which, though guaranteed by the constitution, were at war
with its whole spirit, as well as with the principles of the Declaration of Independence, which the constitution carried out as far as it
could consistently with the existing condition of the country, they
were guilty of ',a blunder," - in the opinion of a great but unprincipled politician, in such matters, always worse than "a crime."
The clauses in the constitution guaranteeing these institutions were
an anomaly in it. It was batter, then, to treat those institutions and
every thing fairly relating to them as anomalous, - to be governeu by
peculiar rules, -than, by converting an anomaly into a general rule, to
46*

546

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Fletcher

v. Rhode Island.

pervert the whole spirit, and invert the whole .order, of the constitution, and, by thus stripping the general government of all its powers,
deprive the States, and especially the smaller States, of all the
rights and protection guaranteed by the United States. They who
were willing, and all sensible people-were, to stand by the comprormises of the constitution, would do much to redeem the pledge thus
given for them ; but it was both unjust and impolitic to require this
of them.
They came, then, to the only real question in the cause, whether
the law of Rhode Island in question was in conflict with the tariff
law, as it was called, of 1842.
The act of Congress admits brandy by name to sale and consumption in the States, at one dollar, per gallon, both for revenue
and as a regulation of commerce with France ; and they cited The
Federalist, Pap. 12, p. 46, to show that no inconsiderable revenue
was originally anticipated from spirits.
Congress might have prohibited the importation of brandy, as it
did in the same act the importation of obscene prints, &c.; but it
licensed the importation, and, by necessary intendment, the sale and
consumption, of brandy by the above act, as the United States did,
by the treaty of July 4, 1831, with France, the admission of wines
at certain rates "to consumption into the States." Right or wrong,
Congress had said, by the act in question, to the foreign producer,
to the importer, retailer, conumer, pay us one dollar per gallon,
and you shall have brandy from France for sale and consumption.
Upon this offer all parties had acted, produced; imported, bought
of the importer, and in the price of the article had paid the duty ;
and after this it was something worse than illusory, that we should
be told that the importation only was licensed, or at most the sale
in the original package or cask, and that the States might destroy
the whole value of the import by prohibiting its sale and consump.
tion, and thus effectually countervail the legislation of Congress in
one form, which it was agreed they could not do in another. This
would be to make the constitution deal in mere forms and names,
and not in thifigs.
The law of Rhode Island proceeds upon this formal 'distinction.
It says to Congress, you may license the'importation of brandy, but
not a drop of it shall be sold or consumed in any town of ours, if
the voters of the town choose to prohibit it. , You may expect revenue from it ; but so far as our citizens are concerned, not-a penny
shall they pay. We forbid it by law.
The-law in question is most skilfully devised to effect its purpose.
It does not in form prohibit altogether the sale and consumption of
foreign brandy, but only really and substantially. It says, you shall
not sell in less quantities than ten gallons, and might as well have
said in less quantities'than twenty-eight gallons, or one hundred gallons, or one thousand galloni. It cuts off, strikes out, .one link be-

547

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

tween the importer and consumer, and might as well destroy, and
does thus practically destroy, the whole chain ; for there can be no
importation without sale, no wholesale without rntall, -. and these
are arbitrary terms, - no retail without consumption.
In case of a direct prohibition of sale like this -there can be no
metaphysical subtilty necessary to ascertain the aegree of conflict
between the State law and the law of Congress ; whether it amounts
to "a possible or potential inconvenience," or " an extreme inconvenience," or "a direct repugnancy," or "plain incompatibility."
Incidental diminution of consumption from licenses, taxation, charters of temperance societies, pfohibitions of sales to drunkards,
children, slaves, &c., is another thing. Here the prohibition is
both direct and substantial. To prohibit and prevent the sale of.the
imported article is both the purpose and effect of the law; and
upon the ground that, by the act of 1842, Congress had licensed what
was wrong.
The very test proposed by this court in New York v. Miln, 11
Peters, 143, is thus met precisely by the law in question.
It is said that the sale of liquor is immoral.

Then let Congress

prohibit, not seek a revenue from its importation.

Let reform in

this respect begin constitutionally with Congress ; for in no cause,
however sacred, can a State be said to act rightly, when acting
unconstitutionally.
In application to any other article of commerce between he
United States and foreign countries, or between the States, but
liquor, it would be admitted that such a law was void, -as
to rice,
sugar, cotton, tobacco, flour, cotton goods, French silks, woollen
cloths, &c. What is the ground for distinction ? It is as much
within te police power of a State to pass laws to encourage or
compel hou-..hold manufactures, or the raising of certain agricultural products, -by forbidding the sale. of cotton, woollen, or silk fabrics, in less quantities than ten, or twenty, or one hundred pieces, or of cotton, rice, flour, tobacco, by forbidding the sale of these articles in less quantities than ten, twenty, or one hundred bales, casks,
bundles, or barrels, -as to prevent the use of imported liquor, by forbidding the sale in less quantities than ten, twenty, or one hundred
gallons ; and yet all .will agree that a law like that supposed would
be clearly void, in its application to such articles imported from
foreign countries, or another State. Let some casuist mark the
difference between the cases if he can.
The law in question is no more entitled to be called " a police
law" than the law supposed, if there was any thing in such a mere
name. Any law relating to the internal government or police of a
State or city is a police law, whether civil or criminal, and it-would
be absurd to contend, that Vonstitutionally one police law was more
sacred than another since-the State or city is the sole judge of the
necessity orfitness of either, provided always, that in passing such

548

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Fletcher -v. Rhode Island.

laws it does not interfere with those constitutions- or laws which
control its powers of legislation.
They contended that the fact, that the sale in the case at bar was
not of the article in the cask'in which it was imported, could not
affect the question ; the notion suggested obiter, not adopted, by
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in Brown v. Maryland, that the importation licenses the sale only in the -original package, being false
in theory, and destructive to the constitutional powers of Copgress
in practice. As the governments of the United States and of the
States operate upon the same men and things, within the same territory, at the same time, it is obvious that all material barriers between them are broken down, and that in general we must look for
the boundary line of the two jurisdictions in the relation and condition of the men and things upon which they operate. This is certainly true of the power to tax imports, or things which have beenimported, and of the prohibition to tax exports, or things to be exported. It is obvious, that the States may and do every day tax
residents for their personal property, whether in the form in which
it has been imported, and even lying in the custom-house, or in
-which it is td be exported, on the wharf, or in the vessel, just as if
the import or export was confused with the mass of property in the
State ; and no one deems such a tax as a tax upon imports or exports, in the sense of the prohibition of the constitution, or in any
proper sense whatever. Nor would such a general exercise of the
taxing power by the United States upon all personal property of its
citizens, including imports and exports, be -a tax or duty. upon imports or exports, but merely a tax upon personal piroperty, and upon
the import c, export as such-property. Any discriminating tax,
however, upon a tning imported, as such, at any time, in any form,
either of the law or the import, would certainly be a tax or duty
upbn imports forbidden to the States ; and any disc-minatiug tax
or duty upon a thing to be exported, as such, would be a duty upon
exports forbidden tc the United States, and to the States, except
under the control of ongress, for the purpose of executing their
inspection laws. There is nothing in the nature or form of an
article which makes it an import, only something' in its history ;
there is nothing in the nature or form of-an article which makes it
an export, only something in its destination ; and if any thing be
specifically taxed as imported, or to be exported, it is a tax upon
an import, or upon an export, within the letter and spirit of the
constitution. Once allow that the States may levy discriminating
duties upon things imported from foreign countries, or other States,
the moment they have lost their original form, or have been taken
out, as they must be for sale and use, of the package or cask, and
the commercial power of Congress, and the revenues- of the United
,S;ttes from- this source, are lost together. Once allow that the
United States may levy discriminating duties upon things to be

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Fletcher-v.

-

549

Rhode Island.

exported from the States, as such, in any form or package, or in
the process of growth or manufacture, and it is obvious That the
agriculture and manufactures of the States are directly at the mercy
of the general government. This "package notion," as it is called,
is one of those vain but natural efforts of the mind to attach itself to
something material to rest upon, even inmatters which do not admit
of such helps and.rests. The taxing power is a sovereign power, necessary for the support of government, and never in its nature or effect treated as a
repugnant power. Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 514;
Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 505. When exerted by the State
over personal property in general, including imports, it cannot affect
foreign commerce, or the revenues of the United States, since it
bears equally upon all articles, and thus keeps their relative value
the same. To become mischievous, either constitutionally or practically, to foreign commerce, a tax law must discriminate as to the
subjects of it.
This, how'ever, is not true of prohibitory laws, like the law in
question. If practically such a law forbids the sale, destroys the
vendible character of an imported article, which constitutionally it
cannot do, it does not help the law in relation to such articles, that
it also destroys the vendible character of the like article manufactred in the State, which constitutionally it may do. It-is void
pro tanto imports, in any form or shape.
There is also this plain distinction between such a law and an
ordinary license law : that the latter does not, like the former, destroy the vendible character of the article, but, admitting this, restricts the power of sale to certain selected persons licensed to sell
the article ; and practically the difference is just as great as the
different terms license and prohibitionimport.
No one denies the right of the States to regulate the sale or
punish the improper use of any article, domestic or imported, within
their territories, under such customary and proper restrictions as
substantially leaves to the article its vendible character. It is the
taking away of this character from imported brandy, upon which
the duties have been levied and paid, of which we complain in this
case.
Thus,-the States may and do prohibit sales of all articles on the
Lord's day, in enforcement of a divine command ; of liquor to
drunkards, children, &c., to prevent riot and intemperance ; and
they tax and license hawkers and peddlers, and auctioneers of all
articles, and retailers of things dangerous in their use, to prevent
fraud, regulate domestic trade, raise revenue, and insure public
safety and social order. All this, so far from injuriously affecting
the sale of things, aids and assists it, by making it safe, re-u!ar,
profitable, and consistent with the well-being of the- community.
The 'same remark applies to quarantine laws, and sanitary regula-

SUPREME COURT.

550

License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

tions in general.

They may delay the infected- ship, or s-p the

infected person, or even destroy the infected article ; yet who dQes
not see that in this very way they aid foreign commerce, by making.
it safe to the community which carries it on, and promote traffic in
imports, by preventing all danger in handling, using, or -consuming
them ? Even these, however, may be so needlessly restrictive, or,
still worse, totally prohibitory in their character, as obnoxiously to
interfere with foreign commerce,and in such case would merit no
more favor, on account of the professed purpose of the law, than if
avowedly passed to prevent foreign commerce in certain articles,
or to prevent it altogether.
The point where regulation ends and prohibition commences may
in some cases be difficult to determine, as many practical questions
are. The cases must be decided as they arise, and,. as Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall suggests in Brown v. Maryland, experience will
assist and develop thb true tests of decision.
It is sufficient that in the case at bar there is no such difficulty,
the design, end, and effect of the law in question being.to prohibit
the sale of an article nrad6 vendible in the States by a -law of,
Congress.
The law is deemed more objectionable because in effect it prohibits the sale of the same article in some towns in the Ste, and
,licenses it in others ; thus 'making the law of Congress operate
unequally within the territory of the same State.'
Finally, the record shows that the only proof against the plaintf
which
duties
Boston, upon
been of
brandy
of had
the sale
in errorthewas
duly
levie imported
d paid.intoHe-waswilling
pay for it, or to sell his-import throughrany
to tao
person who was licensed to sell it ; but the law forbade all sale in
any practicable shape in the town in which he lived, in derogation
of the right of sale attached to an article imported under the laws
of the United States. In its application to his case the law is
-void, inasmuch as it derogates from a right secured to him by a law

of Congress.
.R. W. Greene, for the State.
The law of Rhode Island is strictly a police law, having for its
object the suppression of drunkenness. It was not intended, tocarry out any object of commercial policy. It-was not intended io
secure to the citizens of Rhode Island, within her own territory. or
elsewhere, any advantages of commerce or manufactures beyond
what are enjoyed by the citizens ofall the other States. It. was
not' intended to countervail any "4ommercialpolicy of the- federal
government.
It is a law intended to aid in the accomplishment of a great
The federal
moral reform, and indispensable to its success.
government have adopted similar views with the General Assembly
.lfr.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

551

License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rh'ode Island;

of Rhod'e Island, in a case coming within the, sphere of their constiutional power. An act of Congress authorizes the substitution
of tea and coffee for the spirit rations both in the army and navy.
I shall endeavour to show that the Rhode Island law does not
present a caqe of conflict, upon any sound construction of the constitution. What are the provisions of the Rhode Island law ? It
allows importationi and sale by the importer, and every body else, in
bulk, as imported. It goes further, it allows a retail trade to the
importer and every body else in the article after bulk broken,
and that as low as ten gallons. It goes still further, and vests in
the towns a discretionary power to decide at their April town
meetings, whether they will grant licenses to sell in quantities under
ten gallons for the coming year. The inhabitants of the towns are
most interested in the decision, and most able to decide right. Not
by caprice, but by sober and enlightened judgment. There is a
propriety in leaving the decision to the towns.
An objection to the law is-, that practically, it is said, the prohibition of sales under ten gallons is a, total prohibition. The object
in fixing this amount was to prevent sale by the glass.
It is said by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that this law is
prohibitory. But it is not necessarily so, nor probably so. Discretion implies not only the power to decide either way, but the probability of such decisions. If all the towns had been opposed to
granting licenses, then tho General Assembly would have passed a
.general prohibitory, law.
It is agreed, that, if a conflict results from the practical operation
of a law, it must be decided as if such conflict had been intended by
the legislature. But the necessary effect must be to conflict, and
not the possible, or even the probal~le effect.
''There, is .no evidence before the court that every town in the
State, except Cumberland, has not granted licenses, which are now
in full effect. And yet the court is called upon to pronounce
this law unconstitutional, upon the greund of this possible prohibition, when the prohibition may not exist in any town in the State,
except Cumberland. - The power vested in the towns under this
law is the same as that vested in the town councils under previous
laws. A power to grant licenses is a political power in town councils; and ndt at all analogous to the cases cited by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error. Those were cases of private right, where a
mandamus would go to enforce it. - Would such a proceeding lie
against a town council by a party to whom a license had been
refused ? -But erase from the statute the entire provision vesting
any power in the towns to grant licenses, and leave the prohibition
upon all sales under ten gallons absolute. This would not be a
case of conflict, because it allows of sales at retail as low as ten
gallons.
It is admitted that States have a right to pass Rcense laws. All

552

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

had license laws when the constitution was adopted; no change

took place. What is a license law but a prohibition upon every
body else, except the party licensed ? The difference between a
license law and the Rhode Island law is in the degree of prohibition,
not the principle. Both are prohibitory; the Rhode Island law may
become and probably would become more prohibitory than an
ordinary license law. Does this difference render the one law
void, when the other is valid ? How much more prohibitory must
a law be than an ordinary license law, in order to render it void ?
What rule or principle can the court adopt in relation to such a
subject,? How much must be the restriction upon sales, after the
article is broken up, and out of the bands of the importer, in order to render the law void ? What means has the court to ascertain the practical effect of restrictions ? And yet it is said the effect
is to determine the law.
All license laws, like the law under consideration, diminish importations and revenue by checking sales. Their object, like the
object of the Rhode Island law, is to prevent drunkenness. In
other words, to prevent consumption. The check upon importation, and the diminution of the public revenue, is a consequence
of both laws, but not their object,
If we were to" cofnpare the amount of sales, there being no regulation by license, and the. amount of sales under a well-guarded
license law, it would be very great, undoubtedly ; but no one can ascertain it with any accuracy, - certainly this court cannot. A plain.
case of conflict must be proved.
This court, in the exercise of its high authority, has always
acted upon this subject with caution.
It has always required
a plain case of unconstitutionality to be made out.
The plaintiff in error says, the question of con ict is a question
of fact; but it is not shown that any town, except Cumberland, has
refused to grant licenses.
Again ; to render a license law valid, how many licenses must it
provide for ? One in each town, or how many, or one in each
county ? All license laws materially check importation, by diminishing consumption. What degree of check and restriction will
render the law void, on the ground of conflict ? Suppose the
Rhode Island law prohibited sales as low as five-gallons, or one
gallon, or a quart ; what principle will the court adopt ?
License, laws were in force in all the States at the time of the
adoption of the constitution. No alteration of these laws has been
made by the States, and they have never- been, and are not now,
complained of by the federal government. This shows that, by the
understanding of all the parties to that instrument, these laws do not
ihterfere with any of the powers of the federal government.
The true rule as to conflict is, not a partial check upon sales, or a
partial diminution of the revenue. This involves the inquiry, how

JANUARY "ERM,

1847.

553

License "Cases.,-Fletcher v. Rhode Island.

much check, how much diminution ? Conflict is a prohibition of
all sales. It is said the importation and payment of duties imply
the right to sell, that the retail sale is indispensable to give value to
the wholesale trade, and therefore a prohibition of the retail sale is
tVeid. Paymient of duties gives no greater right than importation of
a free article, tea or coffee.
But a license law prohibits the retail sale to every body but the
party licensed, and this is agreed to be valid. The fact of prohibition, therefore,' does not render the law void, but the extent of it.
What must that extent be ? Hpw can the court ascertain the effect
upon sales and importations,'except the effect which is a necessary
consequence of the law ? or, in other words, how can they judge,
except of an absolute prohibition of all sales ? What means have
they to ascertain the difference between the practical effects of
one law and another, both being prohibitory, but prohibitory in
different degrees ?
In Brown r. State of Maryland, the true rule is laid down.
When an import has been broken up, or has passed from the hands
of the importer, it ceases to be an import. It has then passed
into the mass of property of. the State, and is subject to its authority for purposes of police, internal trade, and taxation.
Unless this be so, Congress may prescribe the police regulations
of the States. -They may prescribe the extent to which a restrictive regulation may'be carried, in order to be constitutional.
We cannot overrate the importance of police powers to the
States. The means of social improvement, the success of all institutions of learning and religion, depend on the preservation of
this power. We look to the States for the exercise of their authority in aid of all institutions which tend to improve and elevate
the moral and intellectual character of the people.
The doctrine of conflict must be expounded with reference to
the principle of compromise on which the constitution is founded.
Congress may authorize the importation of an, article which is
very injurious to the health or morals of a State. The importer
may perhaps sell in bulk ; then the power of Congress is exhausted,
and the power (f the State begins. Upon such sale the property
is mingled with the mass of the. other property of the State, and
subject to the State power, either to tax, to prohibit, or regulate,
as its purpose of police or internal trade may require.
What does the internal trade consist in ? In its own products,
products of other State%, and products of foreign nations. If the
doctrine is true with regard to foreign products, it is equally so
with regard to products of other States. Then the State power
over the property of its own citizens, within its own territory, is
limited to products of its own. There will be two kinds of property ; one subject to the power of the State, and the other exempt
from it.
VOL. V.
47

554

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Peirce

Vt al. r. New

Hampshire.

Unless this be done, it is said the policy of Congress may be
countervailed. We answer this by saying that, on the other hand,
the police power of the States and the power ,over internal trade
will be destroyed. It is not to be supposed that the States will
countervail -the policy of Congress-merely to countervail it. The
compromise of, the constitution goes upon a different principle, and
at all events the limit of the power of Congress cannot be exceeded in order more effectually to carry out its own policy. If
this were a consolidated government, the difficulty would not exist..
But it is a confederation of States-, external relations are confided
to federal government, whilst al doinestic relations belong to the
States. External policy may be affected by regulations of internal
trade or police of the States. -This results from the confederacy.
Foreign commerce 'must be affeted.by internal commerce. Property becomes. the suhjebt of internal commerce when it has become
intorporated with the mass of the property of the State. Regulafios 'of internal commerce may affect foreign commerce, and foreff*'commerce may affect internal commberce. Both are valid,
nevertheless.
Regulations of internal trade may check importation
of'foreign goods, and the introduction of foreign eods may affect
the internal triide .and policy of the State. If both governments
keep within 'their constitutional limits, there can be no collision or
c6nicfit. The laws bf 'one may affect the operation of the laws 6f
.the other. Thus, the police laws of the States in restraining and
partially 'prolbiting the sale of.. pirituous liquors may affect the operation of the act of Congress uider which they are admitted. Btit
this is no conflict. On the other hand, the -act of Congress admitting spirituous liquors may countervail the policy of the States.
But still there is no conflict. A case of conflit imust arise from
one government or the other exceeding its limits, and then the law
of that government must yield which has exceeded its authority,,
whether federal or State. The provision of the const4utibn as to.
its supremacy, and the laws passed under it, is. confitad. to lawspassed in conformity t&its powers.

ANDREW PEIRCE, JUNIOR, Ali TnOMAS'W. PEIRCE, PLAINTIFFS 'IN ERROR, v.- THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THIS case originated in the Court of Common: Pleas for the county of Strafford, and was carried to the Superior Court 'of Judicature for the First Judicial District of 'New Hampshire. The
plaintiffs in error were indicted for that they did unlawfully, knowingly, wilfullr, and without license therefor from the selectmen of.
said Dover, the same being the town where the defendants then resided, sell tor one Aaron Sias, one barrel of gin, at and for the
price of $ 11.85, contrary to the form of, the statute, &c..

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Peirce

555

et al. v. New Hampshire.

The counsel for the State introduced evidence to prove the sale
of the gin, as set forth in the indictment ; and it was proved, and
admitted by the defendants, that they sold to said Aaron Sias, on
the day alleged in the indictment, one barrel of American gin, for
the price of 11.85, and took from said Sias his promissory note,
including that sum. It appeared that it was part of 4he regular
business of the defendants to sell ardent spirits in large quantities.
To sustain the prosecution, the counsel for the State relied. on
the statute of July 4, 1838, which is in these words, viz. :"An Act regulating the Sale of Wine and Spirituous Liquors.
"1Sect. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened, That if any person shall,
without license from the selectmen of the town or place where such
person resides, sell any wine, rum, gin, brandy, or other spirits, in
any quantity, or shall sell any mixed liquors, part of which are
spirituous, such person, so offending, for each and every such offence, on conviction thereof, upon an indictment in the county
wherein the offence may be committed, shall forfeit and pay a sum
mot exceeding fifty dollars, nor less than twenty-five dollars, for the
use of such county.
" Sect. 2. And be it further enacted, that'the third section
of an act, passed July 7, 1827, entitled, ' An act regulating licensed houses,' and other acts or parts of acts inconsistent with
the provisions of this act, be, and the same hereby are, repealed.
" Approved July 4, 1838."
The counsel for the defendants moved the court to instruct the
jury, that if the law of 1838, under which the respondents were
indicted, was constitutional, the sale here was contrary to law, and
the note of Sias was void, and that such a payment by note was no
payment, and therefore there was no sale. But the court refused
so to instruct the jury, but directed them, that, on the supposition
the defendants could not recover the Dontents of the note, .they
might notwithstanding. have violated the statute. The defendants'
counsel then introduced evidence that the barrel of gin was purchased by the defendants in Boston, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, brought coastwise to the landing at Piscataqua Bridge,
and from thence to the defendants' store, in Dover, and afterwards
sold to Sias in the same barrel and in the same condition in which
it was purchased in Massachusetts. And the defendants' counsel
contended that'the aforesaid statute of July 4, 1838, was unconstitutional and void, because the same is in violation of ce tain public
treaties of the United States with Holland, France, and other countries, containing stipulations for the admission of spirits into the
United States, and because it is "repugnant to- the. two following
clauses in the constitution of the United States, viz. :" No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any

SUPREME

556
License

COURT.

Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

imposts or duties on imports or exports., except what may be abso" The Conlutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
gress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes."
And the defendants' counsel contended that the jury were the
judges of the law as well as the fact in the case; that it was their duty
to judge of the constitutionality of the act of July 4, 1838, and to
form their own opinion upon that question ; and that the court were
not to instruct the jury relative to questions of law, as in civil cases,
but were merely 'to give advice to the jury in matters of law. The
court instructed the jury, that the position that the ja.w were
judges of the law as well as of the fact, as contended f'6r'by the
defendants' counsel, was not correct, to the extent of the general
terms in which it was stated ; that the same rule existed in this
respect in criminal cases which prevailed in civil cases ; that it was
the duty of the court to instruct the jury in relation to questions of
law, and that the court was responsible for the correctness of the
instructions given ; and in case of conviction, if the instructions
were wrong, the verdict might be set aside for that cause ; but that
the jury had the power to overrule the instructions of the court,- and
decide the "lav contrary to those instructions, through their power
to give a' general -verdict of acquittal ; and that if they did so, and
acquitted the defendants, the court could not correct the matter if
the jury had erred, because the defendants could not in such case
be tried again ; and that the cicumstance, that the jury had thus
the power to overrule the. instructions of the court, in case of an
acquittal, did not show that they had a right to judge of the law.
The court fhither instructed the -jury, that the statute of July 4,
1838, was n6t entirely-void, -if it might have an operation constitutionally in any case -and that, as far as this case was concerned, it
could not be in violatioii of any treaty with any foregn power which
had been referred to, permitting the introduction of foreign spirits
into the United States, because the liquor in question here was
proved to be American gin. The.court further instructed the jury
that this statute, as it regarded this case, was not repugnant to the
clause in the constitution of the United States providing that no
-Siate shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on imports or exports, because the gin iri this case was not a foreign
article, and was not imported into, btft had been manufactured in,
the United States. The court further instructed the jury, that this
State could not regulate commerce between this and other States ;
that this State could not prohibit .the introduction of articles from
another State with such a view,-nor prohibit a sale of them with
such a purpose, but that, although the State could not make such
laws with such views .and for such purposes, she was not entirely
forbidden to legislate in relation to articles introduced from foreign
countries or from other States; that she might tax them the same

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases. -Peirce

557

et al. v. New Hampshire.

as other property, and might regulate the sale to some extent ; that
a State might pass health and police laws which would, to a certain
extent, affect foreign commerce, and commerce between the
States ; and that this statute was a regulation of that character, and
constitutional. And the court further said, in conclusion (the sale
being admitted, and the instructions of the court that the law, as applicable, to this case, was constitutional, having been given), that
nothing farther remained in this particular case, unless the jury sav
fit to exercise-the power that they possessed of overruling the instructions of the court, and giving a verdict contrary to those instructions ; and that if they did so, and acquitted the defendants, the
court could not set aside the verdict, even if an error had been
committed.
The jury having -returned a verdict, that the- defendants were
guilty, the defendants excepted to the foregoing-instructions, and to
what is said in conclusion of the charge as aforesaid, and filed this
'bill; which was sealed and allowed.
JOEL PARKER-

This judgment having been affirmed by the Superior Court of
Judicature, a writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued at a prior term, by ,Mr.- Hale, for the plaintiffs in
error, and Mhlr. Burke, for the State, and held until -now under a
curia advisar vult.
Mr. Hale, for the plaintiffs in error.
As the questions relating to the several interrogatories which
were propounded to the jurors, and those whibh the court below
refused to have put to them, and the question whether, in criminal
cases, the jury are judges of the law as well as the fact, and every
other question raised in the bill of exceptions to the ruling of the
judge who tried the case, save the single one of the constitutionality
of the law of New Hajnpshire, entitled 1 An act regulating the sale
of wine and spirituous liquqrs," passed July 4, 1838, belonged appropriately to the supeilor court of that State finally to adjudicate
upon, and are not supposed in this case to appertain to the jurisdiction
of this court, I shall pass them over entirely, and proceed at once
to the consideration of the only question Which this case presents to_
this tribunal for decision. That question is, - "Is the act of the
legislature of New Hampshire, above mentioned, in accordance
with, or in contravention of, the constitution of the United States ?"
The plaintiffs in error contend that it is repugnant to that clause
of the constitution of the United ,States which provides that "cno
State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lafany imposts or
duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws" ; also, because it is repugnant to that clause which declares that "the Congress shall have
47*

558

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Peirce

et al. v. New Hampshire.

power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States and with the Indian tribes."
Believing that the whole ground covered by this case has been
more than once considered by this court, fully and ably argued by
eminent and distinguished counsel on both sides of the question, and
so palpably and distinctly decided in divers cases, especially in
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, that it is not in the power of
sophistry even to withdraw this law from that sphere of 'legislation
which the decision in that case prohibited to the States, I trust I
shall be considered as having fully discharged my duty to my clients,
when I. have briefly adverted to a very few of the many palpable
reasons assigned by the court for the ground they then assumed,
and which, it is confidently believed, will avail to the plaintiffs in
error in the present case.
If this barrel of gin had been imported from a foreign country,
could the State of New Hampshire have prohibited its introduction
into their territory ? The answer to this interrogatory is obvious
and palpable. It will not for a momeit be contended, that, while
the constitution prohibits any State from laying any imposts or duties on imports or exports, the right is left to the several States to
prohibit importations altogether. The power of regulating imports
from foreign countries falls so directly and inevitably under the
power to regulate commerce, that it has never been denied to belong to Congress. I shall proceed upon the assumption, that no one
can controvert this plain proposition. If the State could not prohibit its importation from a foreigh country, cotld the State prohibit
its sale ? Clearly not. Justice Story, in his Commentaries (vol.
2, § 1018), says :--" There is no difference, in effect, between
a power to prohibit the sale of an articl& and a power to prohibit its
introduction into the country. The one would be a necessary consequence of the other. No goods would be imported if none could
be sold."
Chief Justice Marshall '(Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 446),
says : -" 1 If this power reaches the interior of a State, and may be
there exercised, it must be capable of authorizing the sale of those
articles which it introduces. Commerce is intercourse ; one of its
most ordinary ingredients is traffic. It is iiconceivable that the
power to authorize this trafic, when given in the most comprehen-,
sive terms, with the iptent that its efficacy should be complete,
should cease at the point where its continuance is indispensable to
its value. To what purpose should the power to allow importation
be given, unaccompanied with the power to authorize a sale of the
thing imported ? Sale is the object of importation, and is an essential
ingredient of that intercourse of which importation constitutes a part.
It is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence of
the entire thing, then, as importation itself. It must be considered
as a component part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress

JANUARY-TERMi

1847.

559

License Cases.-Peirce dt al. p. New Hampshire.

has a'right, not only to authorize importation, but to authorize &e
importer to sell."
Upon these authorities, I take it to be clear, that; if this barrel of
gin
had been imported from a foreign country; the State of New
Hampshire
neither could have prohibited its introduction into their
territory, nor its sale while it remained in the situation in which it
was imported.
The next question is, whether, it being an importation from a
sister State instead of a foreign country, it is not equally protected
by the constitution and laws of the Union ; or, in other words, is
comnierce with foreign nations put on a better foundation by the
constitution than commerce between the several -States ? There
surely is nothing in the words of the constitution, nothing in the
manner in which the constitution is expressed, to warrant such a
position. The provisions applicable to both species of commerce
are found in the same sentence, the one immediately following the
other. But we are not left to conjecture on this subject. Chief.
Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, in the ease
(Brown v. Maryland) before cited, says : = - It may be proper to
add, that we suppose the principles laid down in this case to apply
equally to importations from a'sister State." Justice Story, in his
Commentaries (vol. 2, § 1062), says : -I" The importance of
the power of regulating commerce among the States,. for'the purposes of the Union, is scarcely less than that of regulating it with
sovereign States. The history of other nations furnishes the same
admonition. In Switzerland, where the union is vs.ry slight, it has
been found necessary to provide, that each canton shiall be obliged
to allow a passage to merchandise through its jurisdiction, without
an augmentation of tolls. -In Germany, it is a law of the empire,
that the princes shall not lay tolls on customs or bridges, rivers or
passages,* without the consent of the emperor and Diet. But these
regulations are but imperfectly obeyed, and great public mischiefs
have followed. Indeed, without this power to regulate commerce
among the States, the power of regulating foreign commerce would
be incomplete and ineffectual. The very laws 6f the Union in regard to the latter, whether for revenue, for restriction, for retaliation, or for encouragement of domestic prodficts or pursuiti, might
be evaded at pleasure, or rendered impotent. In short, in a practical
view, it is impossible to separate the regulation of foreign commerce
and domestic commerce among the States from each other. The
same public policy applies to each ; and' not a reason can be assigned for confiding the power over the one, which does not conduce to establish- the propriety of.conceding the power over the
other."1
If thdse authorities can establish a position, then is an importation like the one in the case under consideration entitled to the
same, privilege- and immunities, including, of course, the right to.

50

SUPR EUZ COU.IPT
License

Cases.-Peirce

et aL r. Now Hampshire.

sell, that would have belonged to it if it had been an importatiqn
from a foreign country.
This law of New Hampshire has sometimes been supposed to be
saved from the operation of the constitutional principles, as laid down
by the court in the case of Brown v.Maryland, by the decision in
New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102. An attentive examination of that
case, so far as any analogy is found to exist between that and the
present, will furnish no foundation upon which to base any such
conclusion. Instead of overruling the doctrines sanctioned by the
court, in the cases of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, and Brown V.
Maryland, the court say, that the question involved in the case of
New York v.Miln is not the very point decided in either of the
cases above referred to ; but, on the contrary, the prominent facts.
of that case were in striking contrast with those which characterized
the case of Gibbons v, Ogden ; -nor, say the court, is there the least
likeness between the facts of this case and those of Brown v.Maryland. And the reasons upon which the decision in the last-named
case lests are repeated and reaffirmed in the case of New York v.
Miln. The court, in stating the difference between the two cases,
say : - Now it is difficult to perceive what analogy there can be
between a case where the right of the State was inquired into, in
relation to a tax imposed upon the sale, of imported goods, and one
where, as in this case, the" inquiry is as to its right over persons
within its acknowledged jurisdiction ; the goods are the subject of"
commerce, the persons are not. The court did, indeed, extend
the power to regulate commerce, so as to protect the goods imported from a State tax dfter they were landed, and were yet in
bulk ; but why ? Because they were the subjects of commerce,
and because, as the power to iegulate commerce, under which the
importation was made, implied a right to sell, that right was complete, without paying the State for a second right to sell, whilst the
bales or packages were in their original form. But how can this
apply to persons ? They are not the subject of commerce,; aud
not being imported goods, cannot fall.within a train of reasoning
founded upon the construction of a power given to Congress to regulate commerce, and the prohibition to the States from imposing a
duty on imported goods." Keeping this palpable and most obvious
distinction in view, and ascertaining what were the points raised and
settled in the case of New York v. Miln, theie is no danger of the
mind being -misled by any of the remarks of the court in deliverine
their opinion in that case* The State of New York passed a law,
requiring, the master of every vessel arriving in New York from any
foreign port, or from a port of any of the States of the United
States other than New York, under certain penalties, to make a
report in writing, containing the name§, ages, and last legal settlement of every person who shall have been on board the vessel
commanded by him during the voyage. It was contended by the

JANUARY
License Cases.-Peirce

TERM, 1847.

561

et al. v. New Hampshire.

defendant in that case, that " the act of the legislature of New York
aforesaid assumes to regulate trade and commerce between the port
pf New York and foreign ports, and is unconstitutional and-vdid." '
The court decided that it was not a regulation of commerce;
that persons were not a subject of commerce, and that it did not
come within the principles settled in Gibbons.v. Ogden, or Brown
v. Maryland.
Nor can a distinction be found between this case and that of
Brown v. Maryland, from the fact, that in Maryland the importer
was compelled to pay fifty dollars for his license, and in New
Hampshire it does not appear that he is compelled to pay any thing.
Chief Justice Marshall, in stating that case, says :-",, The cause
depends entirely on the question, whether the legislature of a State
can constitutionally require the importer of foreign articles to tifkt
out a license from the State before he shall be permitted to sell a
bale or package so imported."
To that inquiry the covrt by its decision gave a negative answer;
and when they add, as the constitution most palpably authorized
them to, that " the principles laid down in this case apply equally
to importations from a sister State," it seems that they decided
*every principle involved in tle case at bar, unless there be something peculiar in the subject-matter upon which the legislature, of
New Hampshire has legisiaLed, viz. wine and spirituous liquor;
upon which I propose to submit a few suggestions presently. The
question waI not as to the amount to be paid for thd license, nor
whether any thing was to be paid, but as to the right of the State
to require it under any circumstances.
Now let us see what this act of the legislature of New Hampshire
undertakes to do. It assumes that the State may prohibit, under
severe penalties to ei'ery one within her limits, the entire commerce
in wines and ardent spirits. No matter that we have treaties with
foreign powers authorizing their importation and sale into the country ; no matter that Congress have admitted them into the country
under the general laws of the whole Union, and, to encourage th&
manufacture, have made such as are produced from certain specifie'd
substances entitled to debenture upon exportation ; no matter that
the government of this Union at this moment derives no inconsiderable portion of its revenue from the duties levied upon these proscribed articles of commerce ; this act of New Hampshire subjects
every individual who sells a barrel, hogshead, cargo, or any quantity, great or small, without a license from the selectmen of some
one of her towns, to the ignominy and expense of a criminal prosecution, conviction, and fine or imprisonment.
Is there any thing in the nature of the object concerning which
New Hampshire has legislated to constitute it an exception from
these general provisions ? It is worthy of notice, that a large proportion of the articles for the sale of which the laws of Maryland

562

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Peir~e

et al. v. New Hampshire.

required a license, and which laws this court pronounced unconstitutional, consisted of various kinds of distilled spirituous liquors ;
and it did not occur td, the distinguished counsellors engaged in that
casdP that there was any thing in that circumstance to call for the.
application of a rule of construction different from what was. applied
to other subjects of commerce.
The court below, in the case at bar, admit that 'the State of New
'Hampshire cannot regulate commerce between that and the, other
States ; that they cannot prohibit the introduction .of articles from
another State, wth such a view, nor prohibit the sale of them for
such a purpose ; but that a State might pass health'and police laws,
which would, to a certain extent, affect foreign commerce, and
commerce beiween the States ; and that this statute was a regulation of that character, and constitutiondl.
The doctrine of the right of a State to pass health and police
laws, carried to the extent here claimed, would be a virtual abrogation of the constitution, and a total nullification ofr that power in the
general government to regulate commerce, which was one of the'
chief objects 'proposed to be attained by the establishment of the
federal contitution. Let us test this principle by some subject
other than wine and ardent spirits. Many philanthropists and physicians contdnd that the use of tobacco is as injurious as that of
intoxicating drink. Will it for a moment be supposed that therefore a State, or any number of States, may prohibit the introduction
of tobacco within their borders, and make the selling of it an in-dictable offence ? May one or more of the wool-growing States
of this Union, under the right to make health and police regulations,
prohibit the introduction of cotton into their limiti, and make him
who would sell it a felon, and then eacape the condemnation so
justly due to such an unwarrantable assumption of power, on theground that it was more healthful for -their citizens to be clad in
woollen than in cotton garments ? Not a few reformers of the
present day believe and affirm that the use of tea and coffee is, in'
all cases, injurious ; and if such a sect shduld momentarily acquire
the aicendency in any of the State legislatures, may they render
commerce in those articles criminal ?
Another sect of reformers, by no means despicable in point of
numbers or talents, honestly believe, and strenuously assert, that the
use of animal food is an evil which ought not to be tolerated; but
may a State, a majority' of whose citizens entertain such an opinioti,
punish with fine and imprisonment
the act of selling beef and pork,
?
imported frorg a sister State
May a State -engaged in the whale fishery prohibit the introduction of tallow candles, and make the salei of them criminal on any
such pretence, or a. State interested in the -manufacture of the
latter article prohibit the introduction of oil, or sperm candles ?
It way be-urged that no such abuse of this power is to be appre-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Peirce

563

et al. v. New Hampshire.

hended. But an answer to such a suggestion is found given by that
eminent and learned judge who delivered the opinion of the court in
the case of Brown v. Maryland, where he says, -"
All power may
be abused. It might with equal justice be said, that no State would
be so blind to its own interest as to lay duties on importation which
would either prohibit or diminish its trade. • Yet the framers of our
constitution have thought this a power which no State ought to exercise."
And Justice Story, in his Commentaries (vol. 2, § 1066),
lays down this express limitation to the power of a State to pass
inspection laws, health laws, &c., - " that they do not conflict with
the powers delegated to Congress."
And Chief Justice Marshall
says expressly, "tha i it cannot interfere with any regulation of
commerce."
Let it not be forgotten that the oppressed and degraded condition
of commerce was one of the most urgent and pressing reasons which
induced the formation of the constitution. "Before that time each
State regulated it with a single view to its own interest ; and our
disunited efforts to counteract their restrictions were rendered impotent by a want of combination. Congress, indeed, possessed the
power of making treaties ; but th6 inability of the federal government to enforce them had become so apparent as to render that
power, in a great degree, useless. Those who felt the injury arising
from this state of things, and those who were capable of estimating
the influence of commerce on the prosperity of nations, perceived
the necessity of giving the control over this important 'subject to a
single government. It is not, therefore, matter of surprise, that the
grant should be as extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend
all foreign commerce, and all commerce between the States."2 Story's Commentaries, § 1054. This power, if it be permitted
to the States, will be abused. There is no safety for the whole.
people in placing it anywhere save in those hands where the constitution has placed it. If, on any pretence, however specious, for
the purpose of advancing any cause, however popular or praiseworthy, this function of the general government, so vital to its
character, may be usurped by a State legislature, the barrier between the two powers is broken down, and the purposes. of the
Union itself defeated. Fanaticism never proposed a measure so
wild and absurd, that specious and plausible arguments have not
been devised to sustain the measures by which it would effect its
object.
This case finds that the plaintiffs in error purchased this bai-rel
of gin in Massachusetts.
No law of any State, or of the Union,
was violated by that act. They were, thus far, in the pursuit and
prosecution of a lawful commerce. They brought it coastwise to
the landing at Piscataqua Bridge (in New Hampshire), and from
thence to their store in Dover. No law is yet broken. And then,
in the same barrel, and in the same condition in which it was pur-

564

SUPREME
Licepse Cases.-Ppirce

COURT.

et al. v., New Hampshire.

chased in Massachusetts, and in which they imported it from a sister
State, they sold it to Sias. If, as this court has already decided,
the same principles apply to commerce between the States that apply to commerce with foreign nations, may it not, without arrogance
or presumption, be asked, if human ingenuity can honestly distinguish this case from the one already decided by this court, and so
often referred to ?
Perhaps I owe an apology to this honorable court for urging upon
them arguments so familiar and principles so well settled ; but believing, as my clients do, that, instead of receiving, as they were
entitled to, the protection of the government in their lawful business,
they have been branded as criminals, their property taken, and their
constitutional rights'4trampled upon, they have, in the last resort,
appealed to this tribunal for that redrets and protection against unconstitutional State legislation, to afford which so eminently belongs
to this honorable court.
They rely with confidence upon the assurance that here, at least,
law may be administered, right defended, and justice maintained,
uncontaminated by the breath of a local and temporary diseased
sentiment,'which, in its misguided and abortive attempts at reform,
essays to eradicate physical and moral evil from society, and corruption from the human heart, by the wondrous efficiency of legislative enactment.
They rely with confidence upon that protection to
commerce which this court, on divers occasions, have extended,
though, in so doing, they have been under the necessity of pronouncing the legislation of more than one State invalid and unconstitutional. It was to protect commerce that this Union was established. Take away that power from the general government, and
the Union c'annot long survive.
Having thus referred the court to the positions which I suppose
sustain my clients, - positions occupied and illustrated by the profound learning, deep research, and luminous reasoning of Marshall
and Story, in their expositions of this branch of the constitution, "
I leave this case, in the confidence that my clients, in common with
all the other citizens of this whole country, will ever find (as they
ever have in times past) in this court a full and ample prbtection for
their constitutional rights, against which the waves of fanaticism, as
well as of faction, may beat harmlessly.
,Mr. Burke, for the State.
(The argument upon the two first points, respecting the rights of

the jury, is omitted.)
Ilf. The third and last point raised in this case is the following,
viz. That the court by' whom this cause was tried instructed the
jury that the act of the legislature of the State of New Hampshire,
approved July 4, 1838, under which the plaintiffs in error were in-

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

565

License Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

dicted, was not repugnant to the constitution of the United States,
nor to any treaty between the United States and foreign nations.
The provisions of the constitution of the United States, to which
the law of the State of New Hampshire is alleged to be repugnant,
are in the following words :
1. "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws." Art. 1, § 10,
part of 2d clause.
2. "The Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes." Art. 1, § 8, clause 3.
The act before mentioned is also alleged to be repugnant "to
certain public treaties of the United States with Holland, France,
and other countries, containing stipulations for the admission of
spirits into the United States."
By the admission of. the plaintiffs in error on 'the trial, it appears
that the "gin"
alleged in the ifidictment to have been sold by
them was " American gin."
Therefore, taxing the gin, or prohibiting its sale, except upon the
terms of the act of the State of New Hampshire, before referred
to, did not conflict with the clause of the constitution of the United
States first cited above ; because it was not an " import, " nor an
" export," in the sense of that provision of the constitution.
And for the same reason, taxing, or restricting its sale, did not
conflict with the first member of the second clause of the constitution, above cited, which clothes Congress With the power "1to regulate commerce with foreign nations" ; nor with the last member
of the clause, which empowers Congress to regulate commerce
" with the Indian tribes " ; nor with the public treaties of the United
States with foreign nations.
If it conflict with any provision of the constitution, it is with the
second member of the second clause above cithd, which gives Congress the power to ieglate commerce "among the several States" ;
and that, it is apprehended, is the only question of which this tribunal has cognizance in this c-se. But, before proceeding to the argument of ihis question, the supposed ground on which the plaintiffs
in error rely will be briefly examined.
It is anticipated that the plaintiffs in error will rely mainly on the
case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, reported in 12 Wheat. 419;
6 Cond. Rep. 554. It therefore becomes necessary to compare the
facts of thaL case with the present, and to examine the principles laid
down by Chidf Justice Marshall in giving the opinion of the court.
That case was an indictment for selling " one package 6f foreign
dry goods," contrary to an act of the legislature of the State of
Mviaryland, requiring all "importers" of "foreign goods and commodities," selling the same by wholesale, in bulk, to take out a liVOL. v.
48

566

SUPREME
License

Cases.-Peir-e

COURT.

et al. v. New

Hampshire.

cense, under a penalty of one hundred dollars, and the forfeiture
of the amount of the license tax, which was fifty dollars, for a
neglect to comply with the provisions of the act. The act of the
legislature of Maryland was a revenue law, and a tax imposed upon
the importer under the form of a license tax, a revenue tax, and not a
police regulation to restrain the sale of an article which was deemed
injurious to the health and morals of the people of that State. The
persons taxed were the importers of foreign goods; and not the dealers in articles of domestic manufacture or production. The case,
therefore, of Brown v. The State of Maryland is different in all
its features from the case at bar. It differs from it in two most
prominent features :1. The act of the legislature of New Hampshire, under which
the plaintiffs in error were indicted, was a police regulation, and
not a revenue law.
2. The commodity sold was not an article of foreign production,
nor an " import," but was an article of American manufacture.
These two circumstances distinguish -the case at bar widely from
the case relied on by the plaintiffs in error. The reasohing, therefore, of the court in Brown v. Maryland will not apply to this case.
But it is apprehended, that, if' the " gin " sold by the plaintiffs
in error had been imported, themselves not being the importers, they
could not sustain their side of the case on the principles laid down
by the court in Brown v. Maryland. Chief Justice Marshall says,
the article is exempt from the taxing power of a State " while remaining the property of the importer, in his warehouse, in the
original form or package in which it was imported."
"' This state
of things," he adds, "is changed if he [the importer] sells them,
or otherwise mixes them up with the property of the State,
by breaking up the packages and travelling with them as an itinerant
peddler." In which case " the tax 'finds the article already incorporated with the mass of property by the act of the importer."
He "has himself mixed them up in the common mass; and the'law
may take them as it finds them."
From these principles two deductions follow 1. That the article is exempt from the taxing power of the State
while it is in the possession of the importer in bulk, and has not become incorporated with the general mass of property in the State.
2. When it has thus become incorporated with the mass of property in a State, it is subject to all the laws, restrictions, regulations,
and burdens to which other descriptions of the mass of property are
subject.
In the case at bar, on the supposition that the gin was originally
imported, the sale of it by the importer to the plaintiffs in error, and
its subsequent transportation into New Hampshire, was such an incorporation of it with the mass of property in the State of New
Hampshire as to subject it to the taxing power and police regula-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

567

License Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

tions of the State, in the same manner and to the same extent to
which all property within its jurisdiction was subject.
Again, it is admitted by the court in Brown v. Maryland, that
the "police powerII remains with the States. The act of the
legislature of New Hampshire, under which the' plaintiffs in error
were indicted, is "a portion of the police system of that State, and,
according to Chief Justice Marshall, is not repugnant to the constitution of the United States.
But the plaintiffs in error may rely upon the obiter dictum of the
court in Brown v. Maryland, that 1 we [the court] suppose the
principles laid down in this case to apply equally to importations
from a sister State." It cannot be supposed, however, that a remark thus casually and loosely expressed can be regarded as authority in the case at bar. If the gin had been foreign gin, and had
been purchased by the plaintiffs in error in Massachusetts, and
carried to New Hampshire, would it have been such an "importation from a sister State" as to exempt it from the taxing power or
police regulations of the State of New Hampshire ? And can the
fact of its being " American gin," and of having been purchased in
Massachusetts (whether manufactured there or not does not appear),
give it greater privileges and exemptions in the State 'of New
Hampshire, than if it had been manufactured in New Hampshire,
carried to Massachusetts, and there purchased by the plaintiffs in
error, and brought back by them to New Hampshire, and sold in
the same vessel in which ,c was originally put up by the manufacturer ? But this point will be more fully considered hereafter.
It may also be said, that the "gin" was purchased in Boston in
the same barrel in which it was afterwards transported from Massachusetts to New Hampshire, and there sold. Ih other words, it
was sold by the plaintiffs in error- "1in bulk," and therefore comes
within the principles of the case of Brown v. Maryland, and could
not be. taxed by the laws of, New Hampshire, nor its sale in any
way regulated or restricted.
This position is not believed to be tenable. If it were, it would
be impossible to prevent the evasion of the license laws of the State
of New Hampshire. Ardent spirits could not be purchased in
Massachusdtts in vessels containing a less quantity than one barrel, in vessels containing no more than a gallon, a quart, or a pint, and in
that form carried into the State of New Hampshire, and sold in spite
of the laws regulating the sale of spirituous liquors. It is believed that
no such quibbling with, or evasion of, the laws of a State, can shelter
itself under the provision of the constitution which grants to Con.gress the power " to regulate commerce among the several States."
But the case of Brown: v. Maryland does not turn on the principle contended for. The taxing power of Maryland in that case
seized hold of the commodity while it retained the character of an
"1import," and before it became incorporated with the genera. mass

568

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

of property in the State. In that state of the commodity, the court
held that the taxing power of Maryland could not reach it. And
one of the reasons assigned for the decision was, that the importer,
by paying the duty upon the article to the United States, had purchased the right of selling it, of which he could not be deprived by
the legislation of a State. In the case at bar, the plaintiffs in error
had purchased no right to sell their gin by the payment of duties
upon it; and, furthermore, it had become incorporated with the
general mass of property in the State of New Hampshire.
But the true and only question involved in the case, and which
is presented for the decision of this tribunal, is now approached.
Is the act of the legislature of New Hampshire regulating the sale
of spirituous liquors, approved July 4,. 1838, repugnant to that provision of the constitution of the United States which clothes Congress
with the power." to regulate commerce among the several States" ?
If it should be regarded as a law whose object was revenue
alone, it is believed then not to be repugnant to the provision of
the constitution just cited. But, before proceeding further, it becomes necessary to inquire into the meaning of this provision of
the constitution, and the extent of the power which it deldgates to
Congress. And, in order to comprehend it clearly, it will be necessary to recur to the circumstances in the history of the country,
prior to the adoption of the present constitution, which led to the
investment of this power in Congress. Previous to that time, it is
well known that the States comprising the Union had separate and
independent systems of revenue, commerce, and navigation. One
of their sources of revenue was the. levying of duties on foreign imports. They had the same power over the products of
other Statds, when imported into their jurisdictions. Each 'State
legislated for itself, in relation to duties, tonnage, and navigation.
Of course the exercise of this right to regulate commerce, which
each State then possessed, led to numerous conflicts with the legislation and the interests of other States, which did not fail to engender deep and malignant animosities, as the history of the times
abundantly proves. Trade was restricted between the States, and
the interchange of commodities, so essential to the interests and
advancement of all, was greatly embarrassed. Henc e was there an
imperative necessity to wrest this dangerous power from the individual States, and vest it in the general government, in order to'
secure a uniformity of its exercise. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
'Wheat. 1, this power is assumed by the court to be exclusively
vested in Congress. The extept, therefore, of the power embraces the whole of it, subject, however, to the inspection laws,
health laws, police regulations, &c., &c., which the court, in the
case last cited, admit belong to the great mass of general legislation
reserved to the States.
But this power extends only to the transportation and introduc-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New

569

Hampshire.

tion of articles ofr commerce from one State into the Emits of another. When a comrhodity is introduced within the jurisdiction
of another State, it becomes subject to the laws of that State. In
other words, each State has the power to regulate the internal
traffic within its limits. This position is sustained in Gibbons P.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Brown v. The State of Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419 ; City of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102.
The power to regulate commerce among the States is supervisory. It was designed by the framers of the constitution to secure to the several States of the Union a free interchange of their
products, and their transit through the territories of each, unencumbered with any burdens, duties, or taxes, except such as grow
out of the inspection, health, and police regulations of the respective States. In other words, it was designed to secure free trade
among the States. And in accordance with this view of the
power of Congress to regulate commerce between the States is
that provision in the constitution which prohibits to. the States the
power "to lay any duty oi3 tonnage"; and also that provision of
the constitution which prohibits any "regulation of commerce or
revenue, which shall give preference to the ' ports of one State
over those of another.' " Thus it isthe manifest intention of the
constitution that the power of Congress ovez commerce between
the States shall be supervisory merely, and exerted only to secure
perfect freedom of trade and intercourse between the States. (See
the Federalist, No. 42, p. 182, Wash. edition, 1831.) With this
view, Congress has passed navigation laws, which setcure to the vessels of one State the same privileges in the ports of another State
which the vessels of the latter enjoy in its own, ports.
But does the act of the legislature of New Hampshire interfere
with this power of Congress "to regulate commerce amobg the
States," as above defined'? Does it prevent the unrestricted introduction of articles from other States into the State of New
Hampshire, or their free transit through its territories ? It may
be safely affirmed that it does not.
It is stated in th& bill of exceptions, that the gin sold by the
plaintiffs in error was broight from Boston, the place ,of its purchase, "coastwise to the landing at Piscataqua Bridge, and from*
thence to the defendants' store in Dover." But can the mode by
which the article was transported from Afa~sachusetts, and- introduced into the territory of New Hampshire, secure to it any constitutional protection ? It will not be pretended. The gin would
have been entitled to the same privileges and immunities if it had
been transported by railrond, or by one of the numerous baggagewagons which run to and from Massschusetts and New Hampshire.
It cannot be a privileged article, because it was carried "coastwise" into the State of New Hampshire. But it may be confidently affirmed that Congress, under the general power- "to reg48 *

570

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.'Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

ulate commerce among the several States," cannot secure to the
productions and manufactures of one State, imported into another
State for sale and consumption, greater privileges and exemptions
than the productions and manufactures of the latter would enjoy
within its own jurisdiction. Congress cannot give to the productions and manufactures of Massachusetts, ivhich are carried into
New Hqmpshire for sale and consumption, greater privileges and
exemptions than the productions and manufactures of the latter
State would posseis within the limits of its own territories. The"-barrel of gin " purchased by the plaintiffs in error in Massachusetts, and carried to New Hampshire for sale and consumption,
could not claim greater privileges and exeniptions than a "barrel
of gin
manufactured in the State of New Hampshire. The
former must, be subject to the same laws and regulations to which
the latter would besubject. And it will hardly be pretended that
the legislature of New Hampshire could not pass laws regulating the
sale, within iis own limits, of spirituous liquors, or of any other article manufactured within its 'own jurisdiction. And if Congress
should attempt to interfere in such a case, it would be a most gross
and palpable invasion of the.reserved rights and the internal police
of New Hampshire.
But it. may be contended that, the license law of the State of New
Hampshire conflicts with the provision of the constitution which
gives Congress power to regulate commerce among the States, because it is general and sweeping in its provisions, and prohibits the
sale of wines and spirituous liquors in any quantity. Such a position, if assumed, cannot be maintained by any sound argument. It
would make the constitutional question involved in this, case depend
upon the quantity of liquor sold, and not the thing itself. And
,-where should be the limit of the law as to the quantity the sale of
which it would be constitutional to prohibit ? Would it be confined
to a pint, a quart, or a gallon ? And could the grave constitutional
question raised in this case depend upon an absurdity so palpable,
not to say ridiculous ?
Btit the subjection of the proddctions of one State, when introduced for the purpose of sale and, consumption Wvithin the territories
of anotber, to the internal laws aid regulations of the latter State,
finds an analogy in the case of the citizens of one State going into
the jurisdiction of another.
The constitution provides, that "cthe citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of the citizens of the
several States."
Citizens of one State, going into the jurisdiction
of another State, can claim no exemption from its laws under this
clause. If they enter the territory of another State merely to pass
through it, the power of the lIw surrounds them to protect them
froin'violence and to restrain them from crime. If they violate the
laws of the State into.whose territory, they pass, they are subject,

JANUAR: TERM, 1847.
License

Cases. -

Peirce

et al. v. New

571

Hampshire.

like all the citizens bf that State, to all the penalties which the laws
impose. If they remain in the State, *theybecome subject to the
taxing power, and all the burdens and restraints which its laws impose upon its own citizens. Can an article of commerce, produced
in one State and carried into another- for sale and consumption,
claim greater privileges and exemptions in the latter State than citizens of the same State passing into another can claim ? Such a
position will hardly be ventured upon.
But, finally, it is contended for the State of New Hampshire, that
the act of July 4, 1838, under which the plaintiffs in error were
indicted, is a police regulation, which it was within the competency
of the legislature of that State to enact, and is therefore not repugnant to the constitution of the United States.
In the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203, the court say,
that " inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws, of every description, as well as laws for regulating the infernal commerce of a
State, and those which respect turnpike-roads, ferries, &c., are
(omponent parts of that immense mass of legislation which embrades
every thing within the territory of a State not surrendered to the
general government."
The law of the legislature of New Hempshire under consideration is a police regulation. Its design and object are to preserve
the public morals and health of the State, and it is clearly within the
recognized constitutional authority of the legislature of that State to
enact. This power; it is admitted by the court, in the cases of
Brown v. Maryland, Gibbons v. Ogden, and The City of New
York v. Miln, all before cited, the States may exercise, even if it
interfere with foreign commerce. The States may pass laws regulating the sale of gunpowder, which is clearly a police regulation,
and necessary for the safety of the people, particularly in large
cities. They may, also, by their health laws, intercept and 'prohibit the sale of an infected article, notwithstanding the duty may
have been paid on it, and it may yet remain in the hands of the importer, in bulk, in the character of an import ; afortiorimay they
intercept and prohibit the sale of an infected article, produced in
another State, and transported within the jurisdiction of the former
for sale. For the same reason May the States, by their police regulations, prohibit the sale of obscene books, imported from a foreign
country, notwithstanding the duty may have been paid on them, and
they May remain in the original package. So, also, may they prohibit the sale of an obscene book written in this cbuntry, on which
the copyright has been secured from the government of the United,
States, notwithstanding the fee required in such cases has been paid.
Such cases, it is believed, would be analogous'in principle to the
power to regulate or prohibit the sale of spirituous liquors. On this
point the following cases are relied on : Lunt's case, 6 Greenleaf's
(Mfaine) Rep. 412 ; Beal, plaintiff in error, v'. The State of In-

572

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Peirce et al. v. New Hampshire.

dianai 4 Blackford, 107.; 'King -v. Cooper, plaintiff in error, 2
Scamnon, 305.
And in confirmation of the authorities cited on this point, it may
be observed that the license system was adopted in England at a
very early period .of her history, and has ever since- composed a
part of the police system of that kingdom. See Crabbe's History of English Law (London edit.), p. 477 ; see also the different enactments of the British Parliament, In 7 Evans's Statutes,
pp. 1- 32, title Ali-houses. Many of the English statutes relate to
ihe sale of imported as well as domestic liquors. They, of course,
conflict with the import as well as excise systems of that government ; and yet, it is believed, they never have been called in question.
License regulations were also fidopted by the provincial legislature of New Hampshire at an early period. See Provincial Laws
of New Hampshire (edit. of 1761), pp. 64, 143.
Similar legislation, it is-believed, has been adopted in nearly
every State in the Union.
But if the law of the legislature of New Hampshire, now- under
consideration, shall not be regarded as a police regulation, it is
clearly a law-regulating the internal commerce of the State, and
.therefore constitptiqnal, according to the. doctrine laid down in
Gibbons v. Ogden,. before cited. It may also claim analogy with
the laws relating to hawkers and peddlers, which, it is believed, have
been enacted in some form in every State in the Union.
And, in conclusion, the remark willbe ventured upon (although,,
perhaps, not appropriate in a mere" argument), that the people of
the State of New Hampshire, almost without distinction of age,
sex, or condition, feel a deep and absorbing inthrest in the final
issue of this question. Their sentiments concur with the sense of
nearly the whole civilized world, which now concedes that the
traffic in intoxicating liquors is a crime against society. It is disapproved by man, and stands condemned by the great moral Judge of
the universe, whose purity cannot countenance suich manifest and
admitted wrong. It is the-foul parent of immorality and crime, and
the prolific source of unspeakable misery and sorrow to innumerable
individuals and families. Ana is it to be contended that it is repugnant to the constitution of the United States to restrain and
prohibit such inhuman traffic ? - to extirpate a moral crime, which
grows blacker and more hideous the longer it is contemplated, and
the more its horrible effects become visible ? And deeply anxious
are the people of New Hampshire that this vicious trade shall receive no countenance from the judgment of the august and enlightened tribunal to whose arbitrament this cause.is now most respectfully submitted. "

JANUARY
License Cases.-Mi.

TERM, 1847.

573

Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
In the cases of Thurlow v. The State of' Massachusetts, of
Fletcher v. The State of Rhode Island, and of Peirce et al. v,
The State of New Hampshire, the judgments of the respective
State courts are severally affirmed.
The justices of this court do not, hQwever, altogether agree in
the principles upon which these cases are decided, and I therefore
proceed to state the grounds upon which I concur in affirming the
judgments. The first two of these cases depend upon precisely the
same principles ; and although the case against the State of, New
Hampshire differs in some respects from the others, yet there are
!mportant prin6iples common to all of them, and on that account it
is more convenient to consider them together. Each of the cases
has arisen upon State laws, passed for the purpose of discouraging
the use of ardent spirits within their respective territories, by prohibiting their sale in small quantities, and without licenses previously
obtained from-the State .authorities. And the validity of each of
them has been drawn in qhestion, upon the ground that it is repugnant to that clause of the constitution of the United States which
confers upon Congress the' power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the 'everal States.
The cases have been separately and fully and ably argued, and
the questions which they involve are undoubtedly of the highest
importance. But the construction of this-clause in'the constitution
has been so fully discussed at the bar, and in the opinions delivered
by the court in former cases, that scarcely any thing "can be suggested at this day calculated to throw much adtditional light upon
the subject, -or any argument -offered which has not heretofore been
considered, and commented on, and which may not be found in the
reports of the decisions of this court.
It is not my pufpose to enter into a particular examination of the
various passages in different oflinions of the cou.rt, or of sope of its
members, in former dases, which have been referred to by counsel,
and relied upon as supporting the construction of the constitution for
which they are respectively contending. And I am the less inclined to do so because I think these controversies often arise from
looking to detached passages in the opinions, mihere general expressions are sometimesused, which, taken by themselves, are susceptible of a construction that the court never intended should be gi- en
to them, and which in some instances would render different portions of the opinion inconsistent with each other.' It is only by looking to the case under.consideration at the time, and taking the whole'
6pinion together, in all its bearings, that we can correctly understand
the judgment of the court.
The constitution of the United States declares that that .constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pur.-

574

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-M r. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

suance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the
land. It .follows that a law of Congress regulating commerce with
foreign nations, or among. the several States, is the supreme law ;
and if the law of a State is in conflict with it, the law of Congress
must prevail, and the State law cease to operate so far as it is repugnant to the law of the United States.
It is 'qually clear, that the power of Congress over this subject
does not extend further .than the regulatibn of commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States ; and that beyond
these limits the States have never surrendered their power over
trade and commerce, and may still exercise it, free from any controlling power on the part of the general government. Every State,
therefore, may regulate its own internal traffic, according to its
own judgment and upon its own views of the interest and well-being
of its citizens.
I am not aware that these principles I ave ever been questioned.
The difficulty has always arisen on their application; and that difficulty-is now presented in the Rhode Island and Maisachusetts
cases, where the question is how far a State may regulate -or prohibit the sale of ardent spirits, the importation of which from foreign
countries has been authorized by Congress. Is such a law a regulation of foreign commerce, or of the internal traffic of the State ?
It is unquestionably no easy task to mark by a certain and definite
line the division between foreign and domestic commerce, and to fix
the precise point, in relation to every imported article, where the
paramount power of Congress terminates, and that of the State begins. The constitution- itself does not attempt to define these
limits. They cannot be determined by the laws of Congress or
the States, as neither can by its own legislation enlarge its own
powers, or restrict those of the other. And as the constitution
itself does not draw the line, the question is necessarily one for
judicial decision, and depending altogether upon the words .of the
constitution.
This question came directly before the court for the first time in
the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, P4 Wheat. 419. And
the court there held that an article authorized by a law of Congre~s
to be imported continued.to be a part of the foreign commerce of
the country while it remained in the hands of the importer for sale,
in the original bale,. package, or vessel in which it was imported ;
that the authority given to import necessarily carried with it the
right to sell the imported article in the form and shape in which it
was imported, and that no State, either by direct assessment or by
requiring a license from the importer before he was permitted to sell,
could impose any burden upon him or the property imported beybnd what the law of Coigress had itselir imposed ; but that when
the original package was broken up for use or for retail by the im-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

575

License Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

porter, and also when the commodity-had passed from his hands
into the bands of a purchaser, it ceased to be an import, or a part
of foreign commerce, and became subject to the laws of the State
and might be taxed for State purposes, and the sale regulated by the
State, like any other property. This I understand to .be substantially the decision in the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland,
drawing the line between foreign commerce, which is subject to the
regulation of Congress, and internal or domestic commerce, which
belongs to the States, 'and over which Congress can exercise no
control.
I argued the case in behalf of the State, and endeavoured to
maintain that the law of Maryland, which required the importer as
well as other dealers to take out a license before he could sell, and
for which he was to pay a-cer'tain sum to the State, was valid and
constitutional ; and certainly I at that time persuaded myself that I
was right, and thought the decision .of the court restricted the
powers of the State more than a sound construction of the constitution of the United State would warrant.- But further and more
mature reflection has coniinced me that the rule laid down by the
Supreme Court is a just and safe one, and perhaps. the best that
could have been adopted for preserving the right of the United.
States on the one hand, and of the States on the other, and preventing collision between them. The questioni I have already said,
was a very difficult -one for the judicial mind. In the. nature of
things, the line of division is in some degree vague and indefinite,
and I do not see how it could be drawn more accurately and correctly,. or more in harmony with the obvious intention and object
of this provision in the constitution. Indeed, goods imported, while
they remain in the hands of the importer, in the form and shbpe in
which they were brought into the country, can in no just -sense be
regarded as a part of that mass of property in the State-usually
taxed for the support of the State government. The immense
amount of foreign products used and consumed in this country are
imported, landed, and offered for sale in a few commercial cities,
and a very small portion of them are intended or expected to be
used in the State in which they are imported. A great (perhaps
the greater) part imported, in some of the cities, is not owned or
brought in by citizens of the State, but by citizens of other States,
or foreigners. And while they are in the hands of the importer for
sale, in the form and shape in which they were introduced, and in
which they are intended to be sold, they may be regarded as merely
in transitu, and on their way to the distant cities, villages, and
country for which they are destined, and where they are expected
t6 be used and con-,med, and for the supply of which they were in
truth imported. And a tax upon them while in this condition, for
State purposes, whether by direct assessment, or indirectly, by
requiring a license to sell, would be. hardly more justifiable in prin-

576

SUPREME COURT.
License. Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice -Taney's Opinioi.

ciple than a transit duty upon the merchandise when pasting through
a State. A tax in any shape upon imports is a- tax on -the consumer, by enhancing the price of the commodity. And if a State
is permitted to levy it in any form, it will put it in the poWer of- a
maritime importing State to raise a revenue for the support of its
own government from citizens of other States, as certainly and
effectually as if the tax was. laid openly and without disguise as a
duty on imports: Such a power in a State would defeat one of the
principal objects of forming and adopting the constitution. It cannot
be done directly, in the shape of a duty on imports, for that is expressly prohibited. And as it cannot-be done directly, it could
hardly be a just and sound construction of the constitution which
would enable a State to accomplish precisely the same thing under
another name, and in a different form.
Undoubtedly a State may impose a tax upon its citizens in proportion to the amount they are respectively worth; and the importing
merchant is liable to this assessment like any other citizen, and is
chargeable according to the amount of his property, whether it
consists of money engaged in trade, or of imported goods which he
proposes to sell, or any other property of which he is the ovner.
.But a tax of this description stands upon a very different footing
from a tax onthe thing imported, while it remains a part of foreign
commerce, and is not introduced into the general mass of property
in the State. Nor, indeed, can it even influence materially the price
of the commodity to the consumer, since foreigners; as well as
citizens of other States, who are not chargeable with the tax, may
import goods into the same place and offer them for sale in the same
market, and with whom the resident. merchant necessarily enters
into competition.
Adopting, therefore, the rule as laid down in Brown v. The State
of Maryland, I proceed to apply it to the cases of Massachusetts
and Rhode Island. The laws of Congress fegulating foreign commerce- authorize the importation of spirits, distilled liquors, and
brandy, in casks or vessels not containing less than a certain quantity, specified in the laws upon this subject. Now, if the State laws
in question came in collision with those acts of Congress, and .prevented or obstructed the importation or sale of these articles by the
importer in the original cask or vessel in which they were imported,
it would be the duty of this court to declare them void.
It has, indeed, been suggested, that, if a State deems the traffic
in ardent spirits to be injurious to its citizens, and calculated to
introduce immorality, vice, and pauperism into the State, it may
constitutionally refuse to permit its importation, notwithstanding the
laws of Congress ; and that a State may do this upon the same
principles that it may resist and prevent the introduction of disease,
pestilence, or pauperism from abroad. But it must be remembered
that disease, pestilence, and pauperism are not subjects of com-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

577

Cases.'-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

merce, although sometimes among its attendant evils. They are
not things to be regulated and trafficked 'in, but to he prevented, as
far as human foresight or human means can guard against them.
But spirits and distilled liquors are universally admitted to be subjects of ownership and property, and are therefore subjects of exchange, barter, and traffic, like any other commodity in which a
right of property exists. And Congress, under its general power
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, may prescribe what article of merchandise shall be admitted, and what excluded ; and
may therefore admit, or not, as it.shall deem best, the importation
of ardent spirits. And inasmuch as the laws of Congress authorize
their importation, no State has a right to prohibit their introduction.
But I do not understand the law of Massachusetts or Rhode
Island as interfering with the trade in ardent spirits while the article
remains a part of foreign commerce, and is in the hands of the importer for sale, in the cask or vessel in which the laws of Congress
authorize it to be imported. These State laws act altogether upon
the retail or domestic traffic within their respective borders. They
act upon the article after it has passed the line of foreign commerce, and become a part of the general mass of property in the
State. These laws may' indeed, iliscourage imports, and diminish
the price which ardent spirits would otherwise bring. But although
a State is bound to receive and to permit the sale by the importer
of any article of merchandise which Congress authorizes to be
imported, it. is not bound *to furnish a market for it, nor to abstain
from the passage of any law which it may deem necessary or advisable to guard the health or morals of its citizens, although such
law may discourage importation, or diminish the profits of the importer, or lessen the revenue of 'the general government. And 'if
any State deems the retail and internal traffic in ardent spirits injurious to its citizens, and calculated, to produce idleness, vice, or
debauchery, I see nothing in the constitution of the United States
to prevent it from regulating and restraining the traffic, .or from
prohibiting it altogether, if it thinks proper.- Of 'the wisdom of
this policy, it i§'not my province or my purpose to speak. Upon
that subject, each State must decide for itself. I speak only of the
restrictions which the constitution and laws of the United States
have imposed upon the States. And as these laws of Massachusetts and Rhode Island are not repugnant to the constitution of the
United States, and do not come in conflict with any law of Congress passed in pursuance of its authority to regulate comnierce
with foreign nations and among the several States, there is no
ground upon which this court can declare them to be void.
I come -now to the New Hampshire case, in which a different
principle is involved, -the
question, however, arising under the
same clause in the constitution, and depending on its construction.
The law of New Hampshire prohibits the sale of distilled spirits,
VOL. V.
49

578

SUPREME COURT.
License, Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taneyls Opinion.

in any quantity, without a license from the selectmen of the town
in which the party resides. The plaintiffs in error, who were
merchants in Doveri in New Hampshire, purchased a barrel of
gin in Boston, brought it to Dover, and sold it in the cask in which
it was imported, without a- license from the selectmen of the town.
For this sale they were indicted, convicted, and fined, under the
law above mentioned.
The power to regulate commerce among the several States is
,granted to Congress in the same clause, and by the-same w6rds, as
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and is coextensive with it. And, according to the doctrine in Brown V. Marylafid, the article in question, at the time of the sale, was subject
to the- legislation of Congress.
The present cas6, howev.er, differs" from Brown v. The State
of Maryland in this, - that the former was one arising out of commerce with foreign nations, which Congress had regulated by law;
whereas- the present is a case of commerce between two States, in
relation to which Congress has not exercised its ptwer. Some
acts of Congress have indeed been- eferred to in relation to the
coasting trhde. But they are evidently intended merely to prevent
smuggling, and do hot regulate imports or exports from one-State
to another. - This case differs also from the eases of Massadhtisetts
and Rhode Island ; because; in these two cases, the laws of the
States operated upon the articles after they had passed beyond the
limits of foreign- commerce, and. consequently were beyond the
control and power of Congress. But the law of New Hampshire
acts directly upon an import from one State to another, while in the
hands of the importer for sale, a.nd is therefore a regulation of
commerce, acting upon the article while it is within the -admitted
jurisdiction of the general government, and subject tb its control
and regulation.
The question, therefore, brought up for decision is, whether a
State is prohibited by the'constitution of the United States from
making any regulations of foreign commerce, or of commerce with
another State, although such regulation is confined to its own territory, and made for its own convenience or interest, and does not
come in conflict with any law of Congress. In other words,
whether the grant of power to Congress is of itself a prohibition
to the States, and renders all State laws upon the subject null and
void. This is the question upon which the case turns ; and I do
not see how it can be decided upon any other ground, provided lve
adopt the line of division between foreign and domestic commerce
as marked out by the court in Brown v. The State of Mvaryland.
I proceed, therefore, to state my opinion upon it.
It is well know;n that upon ihis subject a difference of opinion
has existed, and still exists, among the members of this court.
But with every respect for the opinion of my brethren with whom I

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

579

License Cases.-Mr. -Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

do not agree, it appears to me to be very clear, that the mere grant
of power to the general government cannot, upon any just principles
of construction, be construed to be an absolute prohibition to the
exercise of any power over the same subject by the States. The
controlling and supreme power over commerce with foreign nations
and the several States is undoubtedly conferred upon Congress.
Yet, in my judgment, the Stale may nevertheless, for the safety or
convenience of trade, or for the protection of the health of its citizens, make regulations. of commerce for its own ports and barhours, and for its own territory; and such regulations are valid unless they come in conflict with a law of Congress. Such evidently
I. think was the constiruction which the constitution universally received at the time of its adoption, as appears from the legislation
of Congress and of the several States ; and a careful examination
of the decisions of this court will show, that, so far from sanctioning the opposite doctrine, they recognize and maintain the power
of the States.
The language in which the grant of power to the general government is made certainly furnishes no warrant for a different constrbction, and there is no prohibition to the States. Neither can
it be inferred by comparing the provision upon this subject with
those that relate to other powers granted -by the constitution to the
general government. On the contrary, in many instances, after the
grant is made, the constitution proceeds to prohibit the exercise of
the same power by the States in express terms ; in sofne cases absolutely, in others without the consent of Congress.' And if it
was intended to forbid the States from making any regulations of
commerce, it is difficult to account for the omission to prohibit it,
when that prohibition has been so carefully and'distinctly inserted
in relation to other powers, where the action of the State over the
same subject was intended to be entirely excluded. , But if, as I
think, the framers of the constitution (knowing that a multitude of
minor regulations must be necessary, which Congress amid its great
concerns could never find time to consider and provide) intended
merely to make the power of the federal government supreme upon
this subject over that of the States, then the omission of any prohibition is accounted for, and is consistent with the whole instrument. The supremacy of the laws of Congress, in cases of collision with State laws, is secured in the article which declares that
the laws of Congriess , passed in pursuance of the powers granted,
shall be the supereme law ; and it is only where both governments may
legislate on the same subject that this article can operate. For if
the mere grant of power to the gereral government was in itself a
prohibition to the States,'there, would seem to be no necessity for
providing for the supremacy of the laws of Congress, as all State
laws upon the subject would be ipso facto void, a*d-there could
therefore be no such thing as confl-cting laws, nor any question

580

SUPREME bOURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

about the supremacy of conflicting legislation. It is only where both
may-legislate on the subject, that the question can arise.
I have said that the legislation of Congress and the States hag
conformed to this construction from the foundation of the government. This is sufficiently exemplified in the laws in relation to pilots and pilotage, and the health and quarantine laws,
In relation to the first, they are admitted on all' hands to belong
to foreign commerce, and to be subject to the regulations of. Congress, under the grant of power of which we are speaking. Yet
they have been continually regulated by-themaritime States, as fully
and entirely since the adoption of the constitution as they were before ; and there is but one law of Congress making any specific
regulation upon the subject, and that passed as late as 1837, and
intended, as it is understood, to altr only a single provision, of
the New York law, leaving the residue of its provisions entirely
untouched. It is trfe, that the act of 1789 provides that pilots
shall continue to be regulated by the laws of the respective States
then in force, or which may thereafter be passed, until Congress
shall make provision on the subject. And undoubtedly Congress
bad the power, by. assenting to the State laws then -in force, to
make them its own, and thus make the previous regulations of the
States the regulations of the general government. But it is equally"
clear, that, as to all future lawn by the States, if the constitution deprived them of the power of in'akingany regulations on the subject,
an act of Congress could not restore it. For it will hardly be c'ontended that an act of Congress can alter the constitution, and confer
upon a State a power which the constitution declares it shall not
possess. And if the grant of power to the U'ited States to make
regulations of commerce is a prohibition to the States to make any
regulation upon the subject, Congress could no more restore to the
States the power of which it was thus deprived, than it could authorize them to coin money, or make paper-money a tender in the
payment of debts, or to do any other act forbidden to them by the'
constitution. Every pilot law in the comifiercial States has, it-is
believed, been either modified or passed since the att of 1789
adopted.those then in force ; and the provisions since made are all
void, if the restriction on the power of the States now contended
for should be maintained ; and. the regulations made, the duties imposed, the securities required, and penalties inflicted by these various State laws are mere nullities, and could not be enforced in a
court of justice. It is hardly necessary to speak of the mischiefs
which such a construction would produce to those who are engaged
in shipping, navigation, and commerce. Up to this time their validity has n'ever been questioned. On the contrary, they have been
repeatedly recognized and upheld by the decisions of this court ;
and it will be difficult to show how this can be done, except upon
tie construction of the constitution which I am now maintaining.

JANUARY TERM,
License Cases. -Mr.

1847.

581

Chief Justice Tan&y's Opinion.

So, also, in regard to health and quarantine laws. They have been
continually passed by the States ever since the adoption of the constitution, and the power to pass them recognized by acts of Congress, and the revenue officers of the general government directed
to assist-in their execution. Yet all of these health and quarantine
laws are necessa-ily, in some degree, regulations of foreign cornmerce in the porLs and harlours of the State. They subject the
ship, and cargo, and crqw to the inspection of a health-6fficer appointed by the State ; they prevent the crew-and cargo from landing until the inspection is made, and destroy ihe cargo if deemed
dangerous to health. And during all this time the vessel is detained
at the place selected for the quarantine ground by the State authority. The expenses of these precautionary measures are also usually, and I believe uniiersally, charged upon the master, the owner,
or the ship, and the amount regulated by the State law, and not by
Congress.. Now, so far as these laws interfere with shipping, navigation, or foreign commerce, or impose burdens upon either of
them, they are unquestionably regulations of commerce. Ydt, as I
have already said, the power has been continually exercised by the
States, has been continually recognized by Congress ever since the
adoption of the constitution, and constantly affirmed and supported
by this court whenever the subject came before it.
The decisions of this court will also, in my opinion, when carefully examined, be found to sanction the construction I am maintaining. It is not my purpose to refer to all of the cases in which
this question has been spoken of, but only to the principal and leading ones; and, First, to Gibbons v. Ogden, because this is the case usually referred to and relied on to prove the exclusive power of Congress
and the prohibition to the States. It is true that one or two passages in that opinion, taken by themselves, and detached from the
context, would seem to countenance this doctrine. And, indeed,
it hag always appeared to me that this controversy has mainly arisen
out of that case, and that this doctrine of the exclusive power of
Congress, in the sense in which it is now contended for, is comparatively a modern one, and was never seriously put forward in any
case' until .after the decision of Gibbons v. Ogden, although it has
been abundantly discussed since. Still, it seems to me to be clear,
upon a careful examination of that case, that the expressions referred to do not warrant the inference drawn from them, and were
not used i- the sense imputed to them ; and that the opinion in'that
case, v9hen taken altogether and with reference to the subject-mattex
before the court, establishes the doctrine that- a State may, in the
execution of its powers of internal police, make egulations of foreign commerce ; and that ,such regulations are valid, unless they
come into collision with a law of Congress. 'Upon examining that
opinion, it will be seen that the court, when it uses the expressions
49*

5812

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-1r. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

whiich are supposed to countenance the doctrine of exclusive
power in Congress, is commenting upon the argument of counsel
in favor of equal powers on this subject in-the States and the general government, where neither party'is bound to yield to the other ;
and is drawing the distinction between cases of concurrent powers and those in which the supreme or paramount power was granted to 'Congress. It therefore very justly speaks of the States as
exercising their own powers in laying taxes for State purposes, although the same thing is taxed by Congress ; and as exercising the
powers granted to Congress when they make regulations of commerce. In the first case, the State power is concurrent with that
of the general government, - is equal to it, and is not bound to
yield. In the second, it is subordinate and subject to the superior
and controlling power conferred upon Congress. And it is solely
with reference to this distinction, and in the midst of this argument
upon it, that the court uses the expressions which are supposed to
maintain an absolute prohibition to the States. But it certainly
did not mean to press the doctrine to that extent. For it does not
decide the case on that ground (although it would have been abundantly sufficient, if the court had entertained the opinion imputed to
it), but, after dispdsing of the argument which had been offered in
favor of concurrent powers, it proceeds immediately, in a very
full and elaborate argument, 'to show that there was a conflict between the law of New York and the act of Congress, and explicitly
puts its decision upon that ground. Now the whole of this part
of the opinion would have been unnecessary and out of place, if the
State law was of itself a violation of the constitution of the United
States, and therefore utterly null and void, whether it did or did not
come in conflict with the law of Congress.
Moreover, the court distinctly admits, on pages 205, 206, that a
State may, in the execution of its police and health laws, make regulations of commerce, but which Congress may control. It is very
clear, that, so far as these regulitions are merely internal, and do not
operate on foreign commerce, or commerce among the States, they
are altogether independent of the power of the general government
and.cannot be controlled by it. The power of control, therefore,
which the court speaks of, presupposes that they are regulations of
foreign commerce, or commerce among the States.
And if a
State, with a view to its police or health, may make valid regulations
tf commerce which'.yet fall within the controlling power of the
general government, it follows that the State is not absolutely prohibited from making regulations of foreign commerce within its own
territorial limits,'provided they do not come in conflict with the
laws of Congress.
It has beeh said, indeed, that quarantine and health laws are
passed by the States, not by.yirtue of a power to regulate commerce, but by virtue of their police powers, and in order to guard

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

583

License Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

the lives and health of their citizens. This, however, cannot be said
of the pilot laws, which are yet admitted to be equally ialid. But
what are the police powers of a State ? They are nothing more or
less than the powers of government inherent in every sovereignty to
the extent of its ddtninions. And whether a.State passes a quarantine law, or a law to punish offences, or to establish courts of justice,
or requiring certain instruments to be recorded, or to regulate commerce within its own limits, in every case it exercises the same
power ; that is to say, the power of sovereignty, the power to govern
men and things within the limits of its dominion. It is by virtue of
this power that it legislates ; and its authority to make regulations
of commerce is as absolute as its power to pass health laws, except
in so far as it has been restricted by the constitution of the United
States. And when the validity of a State law making regulations
of commerce is drawn into question in a judicial tribunal, the authority to pass it cannot be made to depend upon the motives that
may be supposed to have influenced the legislature, nor can the
court inquire whether it was intended to guard the citizens of the
State from pestilence and disease, or to make regulations of commerce for the interests and convenience of trade.
Upon this question the object and motive of the State are of no
importance, and cannot influence the decision. It is a question of
power. Are the States absolutely prohibited by the eonstitution
from making any regulations of foreign commerce ? If they are,
then such regulations are null and void, whatever may have been
the motive of the State "nrwhatever the real object of the law; and
it requires no law of Congress to control or annul them. Yet the
case of Gibbons v. Ogden unquestionably affirms that such regulations may be made by a State, subject to the controlling power of
Congress. And if this may be doie, it necessarily follows that the
grant of powervto the federal government is not an absolute ind entire
prohibition to the States, but merely confers upon Congress the
superior and controlling power. And to expound the particular
passages herein before rihentioned in the manner insisted upon -by
those who contend for the prohibition would be to make different
parts of that opinion inconsistent with each other, - an error which
I am quite sure-no one will -ever impute to the very eminent jurist
by whom the opinion was- delivered.
And that the meaning of the court in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden was such as I have insisted on is, I think, conclusively proved
by the case of Wilson et al. v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh
Company, 2 Peters, 251, 252. In that case a dam authorized by
a State law had been erected across a navigable creek, so as to obstruct the commerce abovd ii. And the validity of the State law
was objected to, on the ground that it was repugpant-to the constitution of the United States, being a regulation of commerce. But
the court says, - "' The repugnancy of thd law of Delaware to the

584

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States;
a power which has not been so exercised as to affect the question",
and then proceeds to decide that the law of Delaware could not
" be considered as repugnant to the power to regulate commerce
in its dormant State, or as being in conflict with any law passed on
the subject."
'-?
The passages I have quoted show that the validity of the State
law was maintained because it was not in conflict with a law of
Congress, although it was confessedly withipa the limits of the power
granted. And it is worthy of remark, that the counsel for the
plaintiff in error in that case relied upon Gibbons v. Ogden as conclusive authority to show the unconstitutionality of the State law,
no doubt placing upon the passages I. have mentioned the construction given to them by those who'insist upon the exclusiveness of
the power. This case, therefore, vas brought fully to the attention
of the court. And the decision in the last case, and the grounds
on which it was placed, in my judgment show most clearly what
was intended in Gibbons v. Ogden ;' and that in that case, as well
as in the case of Willson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Company5 the court herd that'a State law was not invalid merely because it made regulations of commerce, but that- its invalidity depended upon its repugnancy to a law of Congress passed in pursuance of the power granted. And it is worthy, also, of remark,
that the opinion in both of these cases was delivered by Chief Justice Marshall ; and I consider his opinion in the latter one as an exposition of what he meant to decide in the former.
In the case of the City of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 130, the
question as to the power of the States upon this subject Was very
fully discussed at the bar. But 'no opinion was expressed upon it
,by the court, because the case did not necessarily involve it, and
there was great diversity of opinion on the bench. Consequently
the point was left open, and has never been decided in'any subsequent ease in this court.
For my own part, I have always regarded the cases of Gibbons
v. Ogden, and Wilson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Company,
as abundantly sufficient to sanction the construction of the constitution which in my judgment is the true one. Their correctness has
never been questioned ; and I forbear, therefore, to remark on the
other cases in which this subject has been .mentioned and discussed.
It may be well, however, to remark, that in analogous cases'
where, by the constitution of the Unitcd States, power over a particular subject is conferred on'Co'ngress without any prohibition to
the States, the same rule of construction has prevailed. Thus, in
the case of Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, it was held, that the
grant of power to the federal government to provide for organizing,
arming, and disciplining the militia did not preclude the States from

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

585

License Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

legislating on the same subject, lrovided the law of the State was
not repugnant to the law of Congress. And every State in the
Union has continually legislated on the subject, and I am not aware
that the validity of these laws has ever been disputed, unless they
came in .conflict with the law of Congress.
The same doctrine was held in the case of Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 196, under the clause in the constitution which
gives to Congress the power to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptoies throughout the United' States.
And in the case of Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 269, which arose
under the grant of power to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, where the court speak of the power of Congress as exclusive,
they are evidently merely sanctioning the argument of counsel stated
in the preceding sentence, which placed the invalidity of the naturalization under the law of Maryland, not solely upon the grant of
power in the constitution, but insisted that the Maryland law was
C virtually repealed by the constitution of the United States, and
the act of naturalization enacted by Congress."
Undoubtedly it
was so repealed, and the opposing counsel in the case did not dispute it. For the law of the United States covered every part of
the Union, and there could not, therefore, by possibility be a State
law which did not come in conflict with it. And, indeed, in this
case it might well have been doubted whether the grant in the
constitution itself did not abrogate the power of the States, inasmuch as the constitution also provided, that the citizens of each
State should be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States ; and it would seem to be hardly consistent with this provision to allow any pne State, after the adoption
of the constitution, to exercise a power, which, if it operated at all,
must operate beyond the territory of the State, and compel other
States to acknowledge as citizens those whom it might not be wiling
to receive.
In referring to the opinions of those who sat here before us, it is
but justice to them, in expounding their language, to keep in mind
the character of the case they were deciding. And this is more
especially necessary in cases depending upon the construction of the
constitution of the United States ; where, from the great public interests which must always be involved in stich questions, this court
have usually deemed it' advisable to state very much at large the
-principles and reasoning upon which their judgment was founded,
and to refer to and comment on the leading points made by the
counsel on either side in the argument. And I am not aware of
any instance in which the court have spoken of the grant ofpower to
the general government as excluding all State power over the subject, unless they were deciding a case where the power had been
exercised by Congress, and a State law came in c6nfliet with it.
In cases of this kind, the power of Congress undoubtedly excludes

586

SUPREME COURT
License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

and displaces that of the State ; because, wherever there is collision betweeii them, the law of Congress is supreme. And it is in
this sense only, in my judgment, that it has been spoken of as
exclusive in the opinions of the court to which I 'have referred.
The case last mentioned is a striking example ; for there the language of the court, afirming in the broadest terms the exclusiveness
of the' power, evidently refers to the argumeni of counsel stated in
the preceding sentence.
Upon the whole, therefore, the law of New Hampshire is, in my
judgment, a valid one. Fo?, although the gin'sold ias an import
from another State, and Congress hve clearly the power to regulate such importations, under the grant of power to regulate commerce amrnig the several States, yet, as Congress has made no
regulation on the subject, the traffic in the article may be lawfully
regulated by the State as soon as it is landed in its territory,'and a
tax imposed upon it, or a license required, or the sale altogether prohibited, according to the policy which the State may suppose to be
its-interest or duty to pursue.
The judgment of the State courts ought, therefore, in my opinion,
to be affirmed in each of the three cases before us.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
v. Tat .COMMONWEALTH OF* MASSACHUSETTS.Errorfrom the State Court.
The plaintiff was indicted 'aad convicted under the Revised
Statutes of Massachusetts, chapter 47, and the act of 1837, chapter
242, for selling foreign spirits, in 1841 and 1842, without a license.
The third section of the revised act provides .that no person
shall presume to be a retailer or seller of wine, brandy, ruin, or
other spirituous liquors, in a less quantity than twenty-eight gallons,
and that delivered and carried away all at one time, unless he is
first licensed as a retailer of wine and spirits, "under the penalty
of twehty dollars." The seventeenth section authorizes the county
commissioners to'grant licenses ; and the second section of the act
.of1837 provides, that nothing contained in that act,'or in the fortyseventh chapter of the Revised Statutes, shall be so construed as to
require the county commissioners to grant any licenses, whe q in
their opinion the public good does not require them to be granted."
On the trial in the Court of Common Pleas it was objected that
a part of the spirits sold were foreign ; but the court instructed the
jury that such sale was inviolation of the statute, which was not inconsistent with the constitution or revenue laws of tim United States.
On this 'ruling of. the court an: exception was -taken, and the cause
was removed to the Supreme Court of the State of Massachusetts,
which overruled the exception, and entered a judgment on the verdict against the defendant.
TnURLOW

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

587

Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

The acts of Congress authorize the importation of spirits in
casks of fifteen gallons, and wine in bottles.
The great question in this case is, whether the license laws of
Massachusetts are repugnant to the constitution of the United
States, or the revenue laws which have been enacted under it.
And, first, it is insisted that they are unconstitutional, as they prohibit the importer from selling an article that he is authorized to
import, without the payment of an additional duty, or impost, which
the State cannot-impose.
The case of Brown v.The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,
is supposed to be conclusive upon this point. This may be'admitted, and yet it does not rule the case before us.
Brown was charged with having imported and sold a package of
dry goods without a license. An act of Maryland required all importers, before the sale of their imported articles, to take out a
license. Aid the court held, "that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only for sale, is a tax on the article itself " ; -" that
the importatioirgave a right to the importer to sell the package in
question free from any charge by the State, and consequently that
the act of Maryland was unconstitutional and void, as being repugnant to that article of the constitution which declares, that noState shall lay an impost or duties on imports or exports."
The act was also held to be repugnant to that clause in the
constitution which " empoweis Congress to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes."
In Brown's case the reasoning of the court and their decision
turned upon the fact, that he, being the importer of the pa%3kage,
had a right to sell it ; that this right continued so long as the package was unbroken, and remained the property of the importer..
The plaintiff, Thurlow, asserts no right as an importer of the
article sold. He purchased it in the home market ; consequently
neither the general reasoning nor the ruling of the court in Brown's
case can control this one.
The tenth amendment of the constitution declares, that "the
powers not delegated to the United States by the constitution, nor
prohibited .by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."
Before the adoption of the constitution, the States possessed, respectively, all the attributes of sovereignty. In their organic laws
they had distributed their powers of government according to their
own views, subject to such modifications as the people of each
State might sanction. The agencies established by the articles of
confederation were 'not entitled to the dignified appellation of government
Among the delegated functions it is declared, that "Congress
shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and

588

SUIREME

COURT.

License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean s Opinion.

among the several States, and with flip Indian tribes." This investiture of power is declared by this court, in the case of Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, and also in Brown v. The State of Maryland, "1to be complete in itself, and to acknowledge no limitations
other than are prescribed by the constitution."
There may be a limitation on the exercise of sovereign powers,
but that State is not sovereign which is subject to the will of
another. This remark applies equally to the federal and State
governments. The federal government is supreme within the scope
of its delegated powers, and the State governments are equally
supreme in the exercise of those powers not delegated by them nor
inhibited to them. From this it is clear, that while these supreme
functions are exercised by the federal and State governments, within
their respective limitations, they can never come in conflict. And
when a conflict occurs, the inquiry must necessarily -be, which is
the paramount law ? And that must depend upon the supremacy
of the powe by which it was enacted. The federal government is
supreme in the exercise of powers delegated to it, but beyond this
its acts are unconstitutional and void: So the acts of the States
are void when they do that which is inhibited to them, or exercise a
power which they have exclusively delegated to the federal government.
The power to tax is common to the federal and State governments, and it may be exercised by each in taxing the, same property; but this produces no conflict of jurisdiction. The conflicts"
which have arisen are mainly attributable to the want of an accurate
definition and a clear comprehension of the respective' powers of
the two governrments. In a system of government so complex as
ours, it may be difficult, perhaps impracticable, to prescribe the
exact limit, in particular cases, to federal and State'powers.
The powers expressly prohibited to the States are few in number,
and.are specified in the constitution. .Those which are exclusively
del~gated to the federal government, and consequently, by implication, are prohibited to the States, are more numerous.
The States, resting upon their original basis of sovereignty,
'subject only to the exceptions stated, exercise their powers over
every thing connected with their social and internal condition. A
State regulates its domestic commerce, contracts, the transmission
of estates, real and personal, and acts upon all internal matters
-which relate to its moral and political welfare. Over these subjects
the federal governmept has no power. They appertain to the
State sovereignty as- exclusively as powers exclusively delegated
appertain to the general government.
The license acts of Massachusetts do not purport to be a regulation of commerce. They are essentially police laws. -Enactments
similar in principle are common to all the States. Since the adoption of its constitution they have existed in Massachusetts. A great

JANUkRY TERMT, 1847.

589

License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

moral reform, which enlisted the judgments and excited the sympathies of the public, has given notoriety to this course of legislation, and extended it, lately, beyond its former hmit. And the
question is now raised, whether the laws under consideration trench
upon the power of Congress to regulate foreign commerce.
These laws do not in terms prohibit the -sale of foreign spirits,
but they require a license to sell any quantity less than twenty-eight
gallons. Under the decision of Brown v. Maryland, it is admitted
that the license acts cannot operate upon the right of the importer
to sell. But, after the import shall have passed out of the hands
of the importer, whether it remain in the original package or cask,
or be broken up, it becomes mingled with other property in the
State, and is subject to its laws. This is the predicament of the
spirits in question.
A license to sell an article, foreign or domestic, as a merchant,
or innkeeper or victualler, is a matter of police and of revenue,
within the power of a State. It is strictly an internal regulation,
and cannot come in conflict, saving the rights of the importer to
sell, of any power possessed by Congress. It is said to reduce the
amount of importation, by lessening the profits of the thing imported.
The license is a charge upoil the business, or profession, and not a
duty upon the things sold. . The same price is charged to every
retailer of merchandise, or spirits, at the same place, without regard
to the amount sold. This charge is in advance of any sales. It
would be difficult to show that guch a regulation reduced the amount
of imported goods. But, if this were the effect of the license,
would that make the acts unconstitutional ?
The acknowledged police power of a State extends often- to the
destruction of property. A nuisance may be abated. Every thing
prejudicial to the health or morals of a city may be removed.
ferchandise from a port where a contagious disease prevails, being
liable to communicate the disease,, may be excluded ; and, in extreme cases, it may be thrown into the sea. This comes in direct
conflict with the regulation of commerce ; and yet no due doubts
the local power. It is a power essential to self-preservation, and
exists, necessarily, in every organized community. It is, indeed,
the law of nature, and is possessed by man in his individual capacity.
He may resist that which does him harm, whether he be assailed by
an assassin, or approached by poison. And it is the settled construction of every regulation of commerce, that, under the sanction
of its general laws, no person can introduce into a community
malignant diseases, -r any thing which contaminates its morals, or
endangers its safety. And this is an acknowledged-principle applicable to all general regulations. Individuals in the enjoyment of
their dwn rights must be careful not to ijure the rights of others.
From the explosive nature of gunpowder, a city may exclude it.
Now this is arn article of commerce, and is not known to carry in50
voL. v.

590

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

fectious disease ; yet, to guard against a contingent injury, a city
may prohibit its introduction. These exceptions are always implied
in commercial regulations, where the general government is admitted
to have the exclusive power. They are not regulations of commerce, but acts of self-preservation. And" although they affect
commerce to some extent, yet such effect is the result of the exercise of an undoubted power in the State.
The objection is strongly and confidently urged, that a licemer
may be refused under these laws, which would, in effect, prevent
importation, as importation is'onry made to sell.
Jt is admitted that a State law which shall prohibit importations
of foreign spirits, being repugnant to the commercial power in the
federal government, and contrary to the act of Congress on that
subject, would be void. The object of such a law would,. upon its
face, be a regulation of commerce, which is not within the powers
of a State. But a State has a right to regulate the sale of this, as
of every other imported article, out of the hands of the importer
The license system, as adopted in all the States, restrains persons from selling by retail, who have not taken a license ; and a
license to retail spirits is granted by the court, or some other body,.
at its discretion, and on certain conditions. This is the character
of the law under consideration. The applicant to obtain a license
must be recommended by a majority of the selectmen of the town,
as a person of good moral character. Should this recommendation
be refused improperly or unjustly, an appeal is given to the com-.
missioners of the county. But the commissioners are not required
to grant any licenses, " when, in their opinion, the public good does
not require them to be granted."
There is no evidence in the record of a refusal to grant a license
in this case. The plaintiff is charged with selling without.a license ;
but it nowhere appears that he ever applied for one. This would
seem to be conclusive. For if a State have a right to regulate the
retail of foreign spirits, no one can retail them where a lic-:nse is
required without it, Now, that. a State may do this no one doubts.
And it is equally clear, if the plaintiff rests upon a .prohibition to
sell, it must be shown, This does not appear on the face of the
law, and if, in the exercise of their discretion, the commissioners
have refused all licenses, that is a matter of fact which must be established. On this ground alone, admitting the force of the arenments for the plaintiff, his case must fail.
But, not to rest.the decision of so important a question on a defect of proof, we will consider the case as if the fact of refusal to
grant the license were in the record.
The necessity of a license presupposes a prohibition of the right
to sell as to those who have no license. For if a State may require
a license to sell, it may, in the exercise of a proper discretion, limit
the number of such licenses as the public good may seem to require.

591

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License C.ses..--Mr. Justice. McLean's Opinion.

-

This is believed to have been done under every system of licenres
to retail spirits which has been adopted in the different Ststes.
And this limitation may, possibly, lessen the'sale of -the article.
This may be the result of any regulation on the subject. But it
constitutes no objection to the law. An innkeeper is forbidden to
allow drunkenness in his house, and if this prohibition-be observed,
a less quantity of rum is sold. Is this unconstitutional, because it
may reduce the importatioi of the article ? Such an argument
would be so absurd as to be at once rejected by every sound mind.
No one could fail to see that the injunction was laid for the maintenance of good order and good morals. To reject this view would
make the excess of the drunkard a constitutional duty, to encourage
the importation of ardent spirits.
Such an argument would be advanced by no one, and no one
would question either the constitutionality or expediency of the
law. which -prohibits an innkeeper from encouraging drunkenness.
And yet in this simple propbsition is the argument answered against
the constitutionality of the laws in question.
A discretion on this subject must be exercised somewhere, and
it can be exercised nowhere but under the State authority. The
State may regulate the sale of-foreign spirits, and such regulationig
valid, though it -reduce the quantity of spirits-consumed. - This *is
admitted. And how can this discretion be 'controlled. The
powers of the general government do not extend to it. It is: in
every aspect a local regulation, and relates 'exclusiveli to the
internal police of the State.,
It is said that the object of these laws is to prohibit the importation of foreign spirits. This is an inference whtiich their language
does not authorize. A license is only required to sell. in lessquantity than twenty-eight gallons. A greater quantity than this may be
sold without restriction. But it is said, if the legislature may
require-a license for twenty-eight gallons, it may extend the limitation to three hundred gallons.
In answer to this it is enough to say, that the legislature has not
done what is supposed by the plaintiff's counsel it might do. But
if the legislature cannot extend the license to twenty-eight gallons,
what shall be the constitutional limit ? By what rule shall it be ascertained ? Shall a gallon, a quart, or a pint be the limit ? This is
altogether arbitrary, and must depend upon the discretion of the lawmaking power, -the same discretion that imposes a tax, defines
offences and prescribes their punishment, and which controls the
internal policy of the State. Will it be contended that the legislature cannot exercise the power, as it may be exercised beyond the
proper limit ? This lqgic is not good when applied to the practical
operations of the government. The argument is, power may be
abused, therefore it cannot be exercised. What power dependent

on human agency meyrnot e aBned?

592

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

In all matters of government, and especially of police, a wide
discretion is necessary. It is not susceptible of an exact limitation,
but must be exercised under the changing exigencies of society. in
the progress of population, of wealth, and of civilization, new and
vicious indulgences spring up, which require restraints that can only
be imposed by the legislative power. When this power shall be
exerted, how far it shall be carried, and where it shall cease, must
mainly depend upon the evil to be remedied. Under the pretence
of a police regulation, a State cannot counteract the commercial
power of Congress. And yet, as has been" shown, to guard the
health, morals, and safety of the community, the laws of a State
may prohibit an importer from landing his goods, and may sometimes authorize their dpstruction. But this exception to the operation of the general commercial law is limited to the "existing
exigency. Still, it is clear that a law of a State is not rendered amconstitutional by an incidental reduction of importation.
And
especially is this not the case, when the State regulation has a
salutary tendency on society, and id founded on the highest moral
considerations.
The police power of a State and the foreign commercial power
of Congress must stand together. .Neither of them can be so
exercised us materially to affect the other. The sources and'objects of these powers are exclusive, distinct, and independent, and
are essential to both governments.
The one operates upon our
foreign intercourse, the other upon the internal concerns of a State.
The former ceases when the foreign product becomes commingled
with the other property in the State. At this point the local law attaches, and regulates it as it 'does other property. The State cannot, with a view to encourage its local manufactures, prohibit the use
of foreign articles, or impose such a regulation as shall in effect be
a prohibition. But it may tax such property as it taxes other and'
similar articles in the State, either specifically or in the form of a
license to sell. A license may be required to sell foreign articles,
when those of a domestic manufacture are sold without one. And
if the foreign article be injurious to the health or morals of the commufiity, a State may, in the exercise of that great and' conservative
police power which les at the foundation of its prosperity, prohibit
the sale of it. No one doubts this in relation to infeted goods or
licentious publications. ,Such a regulation must be made in good
faith, and have for its sole object the preservation of the health or
morals of society. If a foreign spirit should be imported containing deleterious-ingredients, fatal to the health of those who use it,
its sale may be prohibited.
When in the appropriate exercise of these federal and State
powers, contingently and incidentally their lines of action run into
each -other ; if the State power be necessary to.the preservation of
the m6rals, the health, or safety of the comrmunity, it must be main-

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

593

License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

taned. But this exigency is not to be founded on any notions of
commercial policy, or sustained by a course of reasoning about
that which may be supposed to affect, in some degree, the public
welfare. The import must be of such a character as to produce,
by its admission or use; a great physical or moral evil. Any diminution of the revenue arising from this exercise of local power
would be more than repaid by the beneficial results. By preserving, as far as possible, the health, the safety, and the moral energies
of society, its prosperity is advanced.
In McCullough v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 428, this court
say, - " It is admitted that the power of taxing the people and their
property is essential to the very existence of government, and may
be legitimately exercised on the objects to which it is applicable,,to
the utmost extent to which the government may choose to carry
it. The only security against the abuse of this power is found in
the structure of the government itself. In imposing a tax, the legislature acts upon its constituents. This is in general a sufficient security against erroneous and oppressive taxation."
" The people of a State, therefore, give to their government a
right of taxing themselves and their property, and as the exigencies
of government cannot be limited, they prescribe no limits to the
exercise of this right, resting confidently on the interest of the
legislator, and on the influence of the constituents over their representatives, to guard them against abuse." Believing.the laws of Massachusetts to regulate licenses for the
sale of spirituous liquors to be constitutional, I affirm the judgment
in this case.
PEIRCE, v. THiE
STATE oF NEW 14AMPSHIRE.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of New Hampshire,
on a judgment given by that court sutstaining the validity of the act
of that State, "regulating the sale of wines and spirituous liquors,"
"approved 4th July, 1838 ; which is alleged to be in violation of"
the constituti n of the United States, and the revenue acts of Congress made n, pursuance thereof.
The first section provides, " that if any person shall, without license from the selectmen of the town, &c., sell any wine, ruin, gin,
brandy, or other spirits, in any quantity, &c., such person, so
offending, for each and every such offence, &c., shall pay a sum not
exceeding fifty dollars," &c. The indictment charged the defendants
in the State court with having sold one barrel of gin without a license.
On the trial, irwas proved that the barrel of gin was purchased
by the defendants in Boston, brought coastwise to the landing at
Piscataqua Bridge, and thence to the defendants' store in Dover,
and afterwards sold in the same barrel.
The views expressed by me in the case of Thurlow v. The
50*
ANDREW PEIRCE, JR., AND THOMAS W.

594

SUPREME COURT
Licbnrse Cases.-Mr.. Justice McLean's .Opi'nion.

State of Massachusetts, at the present term, as regards the power
of a State to require a license for the sale of spirituous liquors, apply
equally to the present case. A State may require a license to sell
ardent spirits of domestic manufacture, as well as foreign. And the
only difference between this case and the one above cited is, that
the defendants imported this barrel of gin from the State of Massachusetts to that of New Hampshire, where, they sold it ; and they
claim the right of importers to sell without a license.
In the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat.
449, after sustaining the right of the importer to sell a package of
foreign goods without a license, which an act of Maryland required,
the court say, - " Itmay be proper to.add, that we suppose the principles laid down in this case -to apply equally to importations from
a sister State."
This remark of the court was incidental to the question before it,
and the point was not necessarily involved in the decision. Whilst
the remark cannot fail to be considered with the greatest respect,
coming as it did-from a-most learned and eminent chief justice, yet
it cannot be received as authority. It must have been made with
less consideration than the other points ruled in that important case.
The power to regulate commerce among the several States is
given to Congress in the same words as the power over foreign
commerce. But in the same article it is declared, that "no preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to
the ports of one State over those of another ; nor shall vessels
bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another." And it is supposed that the declaration, "that no
State, without the consent of Congress, shall ly any impost or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely.necessary
for executing its inspection laws," refers to foreign commerce.
A revenue to the general government could never have been contemplated from any regulation of commerce among the several
States. Countervailing duties, under the Confederation, were imposed by the different States to such an extent as to endanger the
confederacy. But this cannot be' done under the constitution by
Congress, in whom the power to regulate commerce among the
States is vested.
The word import, in a commercial sense, means the goods or
other articles brought into this country from abroad, - from another
country. Inthis sense an importer is a person engaged in foreign
commerce. And it appears that in the acts of Congress which
regulate foreign commerce he is spoken of in that light. In Brown
v.The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 443, the court say, the act
of Maryland " denies to the importer the right of using the privilege which he has purchased from the United States, until he has
purchased it from the Stpte." And it was upon the ground that
,the tax was an additional charge or impost, upon the thing imported,

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

595

License Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.
which a State could not impose, that the above act was held to be
unconstitutional.
' But neither the facts nor the reasons of that case apply to a person who transports an article from one State to another. In some
cases. the transportation is only made a few feet or rods, and generally it is attended with little risk ; and no duty is paid to the feaeral or State government. And why should property, when conveyed over a State line, be exempt from taxation which is common
to all other property in the State ?
There is no act of Congress to which the license law, as applied
to this case, can be held repugnant. And the general "power in
Congress to regulate commerce among the several States," under
the restrictions in the constitution, cannot affect the validity of.the
law. The constitution prohibits impost duties on a commercial-interchange of commodities among the States. The tax in the form
of a license, as here presented, counteracts no policy of the federal
government, is repugnant to no. power it can exercise, and is imposed by the exercise of an undoubted power in the State. The
license system is a police regulation, and, as modified in the State
of New Hampshire, was designed to restrain and prevent immoral
indulgences, and to advance the moral and physical welfare of
society.
The owner of the property, who purchased it in Massachusetts
and transported it to New Hampshire, is not an importer in the
sense in which that term is used in the case of Brown 'o. The State
of Maryland. And there is nothing in the general reasoning of that
case, or in the facts, which can bring into doubt the constitutionality
of the New Hampshire law.
If the mere conveyance of property from one State to another
shall exempt it froni taxation, and from general State regulation, it
will not be difficult to avoid the police laws of any State, especially
by those who live at or near the boundary. If this tax had been
laid on the property as an import into the State, the law would have
been repugnant to the constitution. It would have been a regulation
of commerce among the States, which has been exclusively given
to Congress. One of the objects in adopting the constitution was,
to regulate this commerce, and to prevent the States from imposing
a tax on"the commerce of each other. If this power has not been
delegated to Congress, it is still retained by the States, and may be
exercised at their discretion, as before the adoption of the constitution. For if it be a reserved power, Congress can neither abridge
nor abolish it.
But this barrel of gin, like all other property within the State of
New Hampshire, was liable to taxation by the State. It comes
under the general regulation, and cannot be sold without a license.
The right of an importer of foreign spirits to sell in the cask, without a license, does not attach to the plaintiffs in error, on account

596

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-MIr- Justice McLean's Opinion.

of their having transported this property from Mlassachusetts to New
Hampshire. I affirm the judgment of the State court.
JOEL FLETCHER V. THE STATE OF RHODE

ISLAND.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Rhode Island,
'under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of. 1789. Fletcher
was indicted for selling strong liquor, to wit, rum, gin, and brandy,
in less quantity then ten gallons, in violation of the law of Rhode
Island. From the evidence, it appeared that the brandy which he
sold was purchased by him at Boston, in the State of Mlassachusetts, that it was imported into the United States from France for
sale, and that the duties had been iegularly paid at the port of Boston. The sale of the liquor was admitted by the defendant, as
charged in the indictment.
In the defence it was insisted, that the license act was void, it
being repugnant to that clause of the 8th section of the constitution of the United States which provides, " that the Congress shall
have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imports, and excises,
to pay debts, and provide for the common defence and general
welfare of the United States ; but all duties, imposts, and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States "; and is also repugnant to that clause of the 8th section which provides, "that Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes 1'; and
also repugnant to that clause which declares, that "1no State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its
inspection laws, and the acts of Congress in pursuance of the aforesaid several clauses of said constitution," &C.
The Supreme Court of the State maintained the validity of the
State statute, and tb reverse that judgment this writ of error is
prosecuted.
The opinions given by me in the cases of Thurlow v. The
State of Massachusetts, and Peirce et al. v. The State of New
Hampshire, decide, so far as I am concerned, this case. The
first case related to the sale of spirits of foreign importation,
not in the bands of the importer ; the second, to domestic spirits
transported'from one State to another. And the indictment now
under consideration relates to the sale of foreign spirits, purchased
inMassachusetts and transported to Rhode Island. There is, however, one poipt.made in this case, which was not embraced by ihe
fa' ts contained in either of the others. It was " agreed, that the
town council of Cumberland, in Rhode Island, refused to grant
any license for ietailing strong liquors for a year from April, 1845,
having been instrucied to that effect by a town meeting." The
effect of this proceeding was to prohibit the sale of spirituous liquorsin the town of Cumberland in less quantities -than ten gallons.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

597

License Cases.-MIr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

There is no constitutional objection to the exercise of this discretion under the authority of the State law. In the first place,
no system of licenses to retail spirits has authorized the grant, except upon certain conditions. No one, it is presumed, can claim a
license to retail spirits as a matter of right. Ufider the law of the
State, a discretion is to be exercised, not only as regards the individuals who apply, but also as to the number that shall be licensed
in each town. And, if it shall be determined that a certain town
is not entitled to a license, it is not perceived how such a decision
can be controlled. In the case of Fletcher, it seems that the town
council, who have the power to make the grant, were influenced to
refuse it by the popular vote of the town. A more satisfactory
mode of instructing public officers, it would seem, could not be
adopted.
This produces no restriction on the sale of spirits in any quantity exceeding ten gallons. And there is nothing in' the record
which shows that licenses are not granted in the adjacent towns
within the State. But if this did appear, it would not avoid the
force of the act. I think this regulation is clearly within the power
of the State of Rhode Island, and, consequently, that the act is
not repugnant to -the constitution of the United States, or to any
act of Congress passed in pursuance of it. I therefore affirm the
judgment of the Supreme Court.
M1r. Justice CATRON.
PEIRCE AND ANOTHER V.

NEw

HAMPSHIRE.

Andrew Peirce and two others were indicted for selling one barrel of gin, contrary to a statute of New Hampshir&, passed in 1838,
which provides, that if any person shall, without license from the
selectmen of the town where such person resides, sell any wine,
rum, gin, brandy, or other spirits, in any quantity, or shall sell any.
mixed liquors, part of which are spirituous, such person so offending, for each offence, on conviction upon an indictment, shall forfeit
and pay a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, nor less than twenty-five
dollars, for the use of the county.
The barrel of gin had been purchased by the defendants at Boston, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and was brought
coastwise by water near to Dover, in New Hampshire, where it
was sold in the same barrel and condition that it had been purchased
in Boston. Part of the regular business of the defendants was to
sell ardent spirits in large quaritities.
The defendants' counsel contended, on the trial, that the statute
of 1838 was unconstitutional and void, because the sane is in violation of certain public treaties of the United States with Holland,
France, and other countries, containing stipulations for the admission, of spirits into the United States, and because it is repug-

598

SUPREME COURT.
Licensd Cases.-

Mr.-Justice Catron's Opinkion.

nant to the two following clauses ini the constitution of the United
States, viz.:
" No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be ab~olutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
"LThe Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
In answer to these objections, the court instructed the jury, that
the statute of July 4, 1838, was not entirely void, if it might have
an operation constitutionally in any case ; and that, as far as this
case was concerned, it could not be in violation of any treaty with
any foreign pover which bad been referred to, permitting the introduiction of foreign spirits into the United States, because the liquor
in question here was proved to be American gin.
The court further instructed the jury, that this statute, as it regarded this case, was not repugnant to the clause in the constitution
of the United States providing that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on imports or exports, because the
gin in this case was not a foreign article, and was not imported into,
but had been manufactured in, the United States.
The court further instructed the jury, thai this State could not
regulate commerce between this and other States ; that this State
could not prohibit the introduction of articles froui another State
with such a view, nor prohibit a sale of them with such a purpose ;
but that, although the State could not make such laws with such
views and for such purposes, she was not entirely forbidden to legislate in relation to articles introduced from foreign countries or from
other States ; that she might tax them the same as other property,
and might regulate the sale to some extent ; that a State might pass
health and police laws which would, to a certain extent, affect foreign commerce, and commerce between the States ; and that this
statute was a regulation of that character, and constitutional.
The jury found the defendants guilty, and the Court of Common
Pleas fined them thirty dollars; from which they prosecuted their
writ of error to the Superior Court of Judicature of New Hampshire, where the judgment was affirmed. The present writ of error
is prosecuted, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, to reverse the judgment of the State court of New Hampshire, on the grounds above stated. And the question and the case
presented for our consideration are, whether the State laws, and the
judgment founded on them, are repugnant to the constitution of the
United States. The court below having decided in favor of their
validity, this is the only question that comes within our jurisdiction,
although divers others were presented to and adjudged by the State
court.
The importance of this case, as regards its bearing on the corn-

JAN.UARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.

-Mr.

599

Justice Catron's Opinion.

merce among the States, and on the relations and rights of their
citizens and inhabitants, is not to be disguised. To my mind it presents most delicate and difficult considerations.
The first objection, that the statute of New Hampshire violated
certain treaties with Holland, France, &c., proViding for the admission of ardent spirits, has no application to the. case, as the spirits
sold were not foreign, but American gin.
The second objection relies on the first article and tenth section
of the constitution, which provides, that " no State shall lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, nor any duty on tonnage,"
uniess with the assent of Congress, &c., These are negative restrictions, where the constitution operates by its own force ; but as
no duty or tax was imposed on the gin introduced into New Hampshire from Massachusetts, either directly or indirectly, these prohibitions on the State power do not apply
iThe third objection proceeds on the clause, that "1the Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes," to which
it is insisted the State statute is opposed. The power given to
Congress is unrestricted, and broad as the subjects to which it
relates ; it extends to all lawful commerce with foreign nations,
and in the same terms t- all lawful commerce among the States;
and 11 among" means oetween two only, as well as among more
than two ; if it was otherwise, then an intermediate State might interdict and obstruct the transportation of imports over it to a third
State, and thereby impair the general power. The article in question was introddced from one State directly into another, and the
first question is, Was it a subject of lawful commerce among the
States, that Congress can regulate ? That ardent'spirits have been
for ages, and now are, subjects of sale and of lawful commerce,
and that of a large class, throughout a great portion of the civilized
world, is not open to controversy ; so our commercial treaties with
foreign powers declare them to be, and so the dealing in them
among the States of this Union recognizes them to be. But this condition of the subject-matter was met by the' State decision on the
ground, and. on this only, "that the State might pass health and
police laws which would, to a certain extent, affect foreign commerce and commerce between the States ; and that the statute [of
New Hampshire] was a regulation of that character, and constitutional."
This was the charge to the jury, and on it the verdict and judgment are founded, and which the State court of last resort affirmed.
The law and the decision apply equally to foreign and to domestic
spirits, as they must do on the principles assumed in support of the
law. The assumption is, that the police power was not touched by
the constitution, but left to the States as the constitutioir foundc it.
This- is admitted ; and whenever a thing., from character or condi

600

SUPRE1KE COURT.
License

Cases.

-A

fir Justice Catron's Opinion.

tion, is of a description to be regulated by that power in the State,
then the regulation may be made by the State, -and Congress cannot
interfere. -But this must always depend on facts, subject to legal
ascertainment, so that the injured may have redress. And the fact
must find its support in this, whether the' prohibited article belongs to, and is subject to be regulated as'part of, foreign commerce,
or of commerce among the States. If, from its nature, it does not
belong to commercd, or if its condition, from putrescence or other
cause, is such when it is about to enter the State that it no longer
belongs to commerce, or, in other words, is not a commercial article, then the State power may exclude its introduction. And as an
incident to this power, a State may use means to ascertain the fact.
And here is the limit between the sovereign power of the State
and the federal power. That is say, that which does not belong to
commerce is within the jurisdiction of the police power of the State ;
and that which does belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of
the United States. And to this limit must all the general views
come, as I suppose, that were suggested in the reasoning of this
court in the cases of Gibbons v. Ogden, Brown v. The State of
Maryland, and New York v. Miln.
What, then, is the assumption of the State court ? Undoubtedly, in effect, that the State had the power to declare what should
be an article of lawful commerce in the particular State ; and, having declared that ardent spirits and wines were deleterious to morals
and health, they ceased to be commercial commodities there, and
that then the police power attached, and consequently, the powers
of Congress could not interfere. The exclusive State power is
made. to rest, not on the fact of the state or condition of the article,
nor that it is property usually passing by sale from band to hand,
but on the declaration found in the State laws, and asserted as the
State. policy, that it shall be excluded from commerce. And by
this means the sovereign jurisdiction in the State is attempted to be
created, in a case where it did not previously exist.
If this be the true construction of the constitutional provision,
then the paramount power of Congress to regulate commerce is
subject to a very material limitation ; for it takes from Congress,
and leaves with. the States, the power to determine the commodities, or articles of property, which are the subjects of lawful commerce. Congress may regulate, but the States determine what
shall or shall not be regulated.
Upon this theory, the power to regulate commerce, instead of
being paramount over the subject-f, would become subordinate to the
State police power ; for it is obvious that the power to determine
the articles which may be the subjects of commerce, and thus to
circumscribe its scope and operation, is, in effect, the controlling
one. The police power would not only be a formidable rival, but,
in a struggle, must necessarily triumph over the commercial power,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

601

Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

as the power to regulate is dependent upon the power to fix and
determine upon the subjects to be regulated.
The same process of legislation and reasoning adopted by the
State and its courts could bring within the police power any article
of consumption that a State might wish to exclude, whether it belonged to that which was-drank, or to food and clothing ; and with
nearly equal claims to propriety, as malt liquors and the produce
of fruits other than grapes stand on no higher grounds than thi
light wines of this and other countries, excluded, in effect, by tile
law as it now stands. And it would be -only another step to regulate real or supposed extravagance in food and clothing. And in
this connection it may be proper to say, that the 'three States whose
laws are now befor us had in view an entire prohibition from use
of spirits and wines of every description, and that their main scope
and object is to enforce exclusive temperance as a policy of State,.
under the belief that such a policy will best subserve the interests
of society ; and that to this end, more than to any other, has tle
sovereign power of these States beeli exerted ; for it was admitted,
on the argument, that no- licenses are issued, and that exclusion
exists, so far as the laws can produce the result, -at least, in
some of the States, -and that this was the policy of the law. For
these reasons, I think the case cannot depend on the reserved
power in the State to regulate its own police.
Had the gin imported been "an import" from a foreign country,
then the license law prohibiting its sale by the importer would be
void. The reasons for this conclusion are given in my opinion on
the case of Thurlow v. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and
need not be repeated, and are founded on the case of Brown v.
The State of Maryland. The next inquiry is, did it stand on the
foot of " an import," coming, as it did, from another State ? If it
be true, as the State courts held it was, that Congress has the exclusive power to regulate commerce among the States (the States
having none), and the gin introduced being an article of commerce,
and the State license law being a regulation of commerce (as it was
held by this court to be' in the case of Brown v. Tile State of
Maryland), then the State law is void, because the State had no
power to act in the matter by way of regulation to any extent.
This narrows the controversy to the single point, whether the.
States have .pawer to regulate their own mode of coniierce
among the States, during the time the power of Congress lies dormant, and has not been exercised in regard to such counerce.
Although some regulations have been made by Congress afrecting
the coasting trade, requiring nmanifests of cargoes where I.hey- exceed a certain value, to prevent smuggling, aud for other- purposes,
still, no regulation exists affecting, in any degree, s.uch an import as
the one-under corsideration. It must find protection against tle
State law under theconstitution, or it can have none. This is also
VOL. V.
51

602

SUPREME COURT.
License Cates.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

true as respects similar articles of commerce passing from State to
State by land. Congress has left the States to proceed in this
regard as they were proceeding when the constitution was adopted.
Is, then, the power of Congress exclusive ? The advocates of
this construction insist, that it has been settled by this court that
the power to regulate commerce is exclusive, and can be exercised
by.Congress alone. And the inquiry in advance of further discussion is, Hoae the construction been thus settled ? The principal
case relied on is that* of Gibbons v.Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, in support of the assumption. In that case a monopoly had ben granted
to the inventers of machinery propelled by steam, whi',h, when
applied to vessels, forced them through the water. Tile law of
monopoly of New York extended to the tide-waters, and for navigating these with two steamboats belonging to Gibbons, a bill was
filed against him, and he was enjoined by the State courts of New
York; and in his answer he relied on licenses granted under the
act of 18th February, 1793, for, enrolling and licensing ships and
vessels to be employed in the coasting trade, and for regulating the
same. This was the sole defence. The court first held that the
power to regulate commerce included the power to regulate navigation also, as an incident to, and part of, commerce.
After discussing many topics connected with, or supposed to
be connected with, the subject, the power of taxation was consideted by the court, and the powers to tax in .the States and the United
States compared with the power to regulate commerce, and in this
connection the chief justice, delivering the opinion of the court, said,
-"But,
when a State proceed*s to regulate commerce- with-foreign
nations, or among the several States, it is exercising the very power
granted to Congress, and is doing the very thing which Congress is
authorized to do. There is no analogy, then, between the power of
taxation and -the power of regulating commerce. In discussing the
question, whether this power is still in the States, in the case under
consideration, we may dismiss from it the inquiry, whether it is surrendered by the mere grant
C
-Congress, or is retained until Congress shall exercise the power. We may dismiss that.inquiry, because it has been exercised, and the regulations Congress deemed
proper to make are, now in full operation. The sole question is,
Can a State regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
Stntes, while Congress is-regulating it ?"
And then the court proceeds to discuss the effect of the licenses
set up in Gibbon's answer, and gives a dec'ree of reversal, on that
sole question, in his favor. The decree says, -"
This court is of
opinion, that the several licenses to the steamboats the Stoudinger
and the Bellona to carry on the coasting trade, which are set up by
the appellant, Thomas Gibbons, in his answer, which were granted
under an act of Congress passed in pursuance of the constitution of
the United States, gave full authority to those vessels to navigate

JANUARY ?ERM, 1847

603

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

the waters of the United States, by steam or otherwise, for the purpose of carrying on the coasting trade, any law of the State of New
York to the contrary notwithstanding." And then the State law
is declared void, as repugnant to the constitution and laws of the
United States. 9 Wheat. 240.
This case, then, decides that navigation was within the commercial
power of the United States, and that a coasting license granted
pursuant to an act of Congress, in the exercise of the power, was
an authority under the supreme law to navigate the public waters of
New York, notwithstanding the State law-granting *the monopoly.
This decision was made in 1824. Three years after (1827) the
case of Brown v. Tha State of Maryland came before the court.
12 Wheat. 419.
Brown, an importing merchant, had been indicted for selling packages of dry goods in the form they were imported, without taking
out a license to sell by iwholesale. To this he demurred, and the
demurrer was sustained, on the ground that " imports " could be
sold by the importer regardless of the State law, on which the indictment was founded. Two propositions were stated by the court, and
the decision of the cause proceeded on them both, and was favorable
to Brown :-First, The provision of the constitution which declares,
that "no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties'on imports or exports." And, second, That which
declares Congress shall have power to regulate corimerce "with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes.
The first proposition has no application to the contro;ersy before
us, as here no tax or duty was imposed.
2. The court proceeds (p. 446) to inquire of the extent of
the power, and says, -"
It is complete in itself, and acknowledges no limitations, and is coextensive with the subject on whic:
it operates." And for this Gibbons v. Ogden is referred to, as
having asserted the same -postulates. The opinion then urges the.
necessity that Congress should have power over- the whole subject,
and the power to protect the imported article in the hands of the
importer; and proceeds to say, -" ' We think it cannot be denied
what can be the meaning-of an act of Congress which authorized
importation, and offers the privilege for sale at a: fixed price to
every person who chooses to becorie a purchaser." "We think,
then, that if thQ power -to 'authorize a sale exists in Congress, the
conclusion that the right to sell is connected with the law permitting importation, as. an inseparable incident, is inevitable."
Two -points were deciced on the second .proposition
1st.
That a ix on the importer was a tax on the import.
9-d r hat "an import," which had paid a tax to the United
States according to the regulations of commerce made by Congress,
could-not be taxed a second time in the hands of the importer.
Neither of these cases louch the question of exclusive power, nor
-

604

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

d6 I suppose it was intended by the writer of the opinions to approach that question, as he studiously guarded the opinion in the
leading case of Gibbons v. Ogden against such an inference; and
professedly followed the doctrines there laid down in Brown v.
The State of Maryland.
The next case that came before the court was that of Willson et
al. v. The Blacklird Creek Mprsh Companyin 1829, 2 Peters,
257. The chief justice again delivered the opinion of the court, as
he had done in the' two previous cases. The company was authorized to make a dam across the creek under a State charter.
The creek was a navigable tide-water; the dam was constructed, and
the licensed sloop of Willson not being enabled to pass, he broke
the dam, and the company sued him for damages ; to which he
pleaded, that the creek was a navigable highway, where the tide
ebbed and flowed, and that he only did so much damage as to allow
his vessel to pass. The pleawas demurred to, and there was a
judgment against Willsor in the State court. It was insisted 'on.
hisbehalf in this court That tle.pptvr 1t regulate commerce included navigation ; and' ti.anavigable'streams are the waters of the
United States, and subject tcf the power of Congress ; and the case
The chief justice in the
of Gibbons v. Ogden was relied on.
opiiion said : - "1 The counsel for the plaintiff in error insists that
it comes in conflict with the powers of the United States to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States.
"If Congress had passed any act which bore upon the case, any
act in execution of the power to regulate.commerce, the object of
which was to control State legislation over those small navigable
creeks into which the tide flows, and which abound throughout the'
lower country of the Middle and Southern States, we should feel
not much difficulty in saving, that a State law coming in conflict
with such act would be- void. But Congress has passed no such
act. The repugnancy of the law of Delaware to the constitutiori is
placed entirely on-its repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States ; a power which
has not begn so exercised as to affect the question.
" We do not think that the act empowering the Blackbird Creek
MAarsh Company to place a dain across the creek can, under all the
circunstahtces of the case, be considered as repugnant to. the power
to regulate commerce in its dormant state, or as being in conflict
with any law passed on the subject."
Here the adjudications ond. But judges, who were of the court
when the threei cases cited were determined, differ as to, the-'true
meaning of the chief justice in the language employed in the case
of Gibbons v. Ogden; in illustrating the 6onstitution in aspects supposed to bear mbre or less on the questions before the court , such,
for instance, as that the coinmercial power was a unit, and covered
the entire subject-,matter of commerce with foreigh nations and

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

605

Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

among the States ; and that navigation was included in the power.
In the case of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102, Mr. Justice
Thompson and Mr. Justice Story differed entirely as to what the
language employed in the opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden meant, in
regard to the true exposition of the constitution ; - one contending
that the language used had reference to the power of Congress, and to
a case where it had been fully exercised ; the other insisting that the
opinion maintained the exclusive power in Congress to regulate
commerce, and that the States had no authority to legislate, but
were altogether excluded from interfering. This was Mr. Justice
Story's opinion. I think it must be admitted that Chief Justice
Marshall understood himself as Mr. Justice Thompson understood
him, otherwise he could not have held as he did in the last case, in
1829, of Willson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Company. And
as this case was an adjudication on the precise question whether
the constitution of the United States, in itself, extinguished the
powers of the States to interfere with navigation on tide-water,
and as it was adjudged, in the case of. Gibbons v. Ogden, that the
power to regulate commerce included navigation as fully as if the
clause had expressed it in terms, it is difficult to say that this case
does not settle the question favorably to. the exercise of jurisdiction
on the part of the States, until Congress shall act on the same subject
and suspend the State law in its operation. But, owing to the conflicting opinions of individual judges, it is deemed proper to treat
the question as thoigh it was an open one, in the aspect that this
ease presents- it ; and then the consideration arises, - Can a State,
by its general laws, operating on all persons and property within its
jurisdiction, regulate articles coming into the State from other
States, and prohibit their sale, unless a license is obtained by the
person bringing them in; and where no tax or duty is demanded of
the person, or imposed on the article ?
In this proposition, it is not intendud to involve the consideration,
that where 'Congress regulates a particular commerce by ge'neral
laws, as where a tax is'levied on some articles on being introduced
from abroad, and others permitted to come in free, that all are regulated ;. this I admit in the instance put, and in all others of a like
character. But as no general law of Congress has regulated commerce among the States, such a rule cannot apply here.
To a true understanding of the power conferred on Congress to
regulate commerce among the States, it may be proper briefly to
refer to their condition and acts before the constitution was adopted,
in this respect. The prominent evil was, that they taxed the commerce of each other directly and indirectly ; and to secure themselves from undue and opposing taxes, the constitution first provides, that Congress shall lay no tax on articles exported from any
State second, that no State shall lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports ; nor, third, lay any duty on tonnage, without
51 *

606

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

the consent of Congress, except so much as may be necessary for
executing its inspection laws. These are prohibitions, to which the
States have conformed.
But, as many general and all necessary local regulations existed
when the constitution wag adopted, and this, in all the States, affecting the end of commerce within their respective limits, the local regulations were continued, so far as the constitution left them in force.
And they have been added to and accumulated to a great extent up
to this time in the maritime States, not only as regards commerce
among the States, but affecting foreign commerce also ; the States,
within their harbours and inland waters, have- done -almost every
thirig, and Congress next to nothing. So minute and complicated
are the *wants of commerce when .it reaches its port of destination,
that even the State legislatures have been incapable Qf providing
suitable means for -its regulation between ship and shore, and therefore -charters, granted by the State legislatures, have conferred the
power on city corporations. Owing to situation and climate, every
port and place where commerce enters a State must have peculiarity in its regulations ; and these it would be exceedingly difficult for
Congress to make; nor could it depute the power tb corporations,
as the States do. The difficulties standing in the way of Congress
are fast increasing with the increase of commerce and the places
where it is carried on. And where it enters States through their
inland borders, by land and water, the complication is not less, and
especially on the large rivers. There, too, Congress has the undisputed power to regulate commerce" coming from State to State ;
but as every village would require special legislation, and constant
additions as it grew and- its commerce increased, to deal with the
subject on the part of Congress would be next to impossible in prac•tice., I admit that this condition of things does not settle the
question of contested power ; but it satisfactorily sh6ws that Congress cannot do what the States have done, are doing, and must
continue to do, from a controlling necessity, even should the exclusive'power in Congress be maintained by our decision. And this
state-of things was too prominently manifest for the convention to
overlook it. Nor do I suppose they did so, for the following reasons.
* The general rules of construction applicable to the negative and
affirmative powers of grant in the constitution are commented on
I That, not"in the 32d number of the Federalist; in these terms:
withstanding the affirmative grants of general. authorities, there has
been the most pointed care, in those cases where it was deemed
improper that the like authorities should reside in the States, to insert negative clauses prohibiting the exercise of them by the States.
The tenth section of the first article consists altogether of such
provisions. -This circumstanie is a clear indication of the sense of
the convention, and furnishes a rule of interpretatiori out of the
body of the act, which justifies the position I have advanced, and

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

607

Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

refutes every hypoihesis to the contrary." That is, in favor of the
State power. These remarks were made to quiet the fears of the
peop]e, and to clear up doubts on the meaning of the constitution,
then before them for adoption by the State conventions. And it
is an historical truth, never, so far as I know, denied, that these
papers were received by the people of the States as the true exponents of the instrument submitted for their ratification. Proceeding on the principle of construction applicable to affirmative statutes, -that they stood together as a general rule, if there were no
negative words, -and taking the doctrine laid down in the Federalist
to be the true-rule of interpretation, - that where the States were
intended .to be prohibited negative words had been used, -the
States continued to do what they had previously done, and were
not by negation prohibited from doing ; that is to say, to exercise
the powers conferred on Congress in' arming, and organizing, and
disciplining the militia, to pass bankrupt laws, and to regulate the
details of commerce within their limits, coming from other States
and foreign countries.
The exercise of the powers to regulate the militia, and to pass
bankrupt laws, has not the approval of this court in the cases of
Houston v. Moore, and in Ogden v. Saunders.
As to the existence of the power in the States in these two instances, there is no further controversy here or elsewhere.
And in regard to, the third, Congress has stood by for nearly
sixty years, and seen the States regulate the commerce of the
wholQ country, more or less, at the ports of entry and at all their
borders, without objection, and for this court now to decide that
the power did not exist in the States, and that all they had done in
this respect was void from the beginning, would overthrow and annul entire codes of State legislation on the particular subject. We
would by our decision expunge more State laws and city corporate
regulations than Congress is likely to make in a century- on the
same subject, and on no better assumption than that Congress and
the State legislatures had been altogether mistaken as.to their respective powers for fifty years and foore. If long usage, general
acquiescence, and the absence of complaint can settle the interpre-"
tation of the clause in question, then it should be deemed as settled
in conformity to thb usage by the courts.
And as Congress and the c6urts have conceded that the States
may pass laws regulating..the militia, and on the subject of bankruptcies, and- that the affirmative grants of power to Congress in
these instances did not deprive the States from exercising the power
until Congress acted, it is now too late, under existing circumstances, for this court to say that the similar affirmative. power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the States shall
be held an exclusive power in Congress ; as it could no more be
done with consistency of interpretation, than with safety to the existing state of the country.

60S

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr.

Justice Catron's Opinion.

In proceeding on this moderate, and, as I think, prudent and
proper construction, all further difficulty will be obviated in regard
to the admission of property into the States ; this the States may
regulate, so they do not tax; and if the States (or any one of
them) abuse the- power, Congress can interfere at pleasure, and
remedy the evil ; nor will the States have any right to complain.
And so the courts can interfere if the States assume to exercise an
excess of power, or act on a subject of commerce that is regulated
by Congress. As'already stated, it is hardly possible for Congress
to deal at all with the details .of this complicated matter.
The case before us presents a fair illustration of the difficulty;
all venders of spirits produced in New Hampshire fe compelled
to be licensed before they can lawfully sell ; this is not controverted, and cannot be. To hold that the State license law was void,
as-respects spirits coming in from other States as articles of commerce, *ould open the door to an almost entire evasion, as the
spirits, might be introduced in the smallest divisible quantities that
the retail trade would require ; the consequence of which would
be, that the dealers in New Hampshire would sell only spirits produced in other States,rand that the products of New Hampshire
would find an.unrestrained market in the neighbouring States having
similar license laws to those of New Hampshire.
For the sake of convenience, the views on which this opinion
proceeds will be briefly restated.
1. It is maintained, that spirits and wines are articles belonging
to foreign commerce and commerce among the States ; and that
Congress can regulate their introduction and transmission into and
through the States so long as they belong to either class of such
commerce, but no further.
2. That any State law whose provisions, are repugnant to the
existing regulations of Congress (within the above limit) is void, so
far as it is opposed to the legislation of Congress.
3. That the police power of the States *as 'reserved to the
States, and that it is beyond the reach of Congress ; but that such
"police power extends to articles only which do not belong to foreign
commerce, or to commerce' among the States, at the time the
police power is exercised in regard to them ; and that the fact of
their condition is a subject proper for judicial ascertainment.
4. That the power to regulate commerce among the States may
be exercised by Congress at pleasure, and the States cut off from
regulating the same commerce at the same time it stands regulated
by Congress.; but that, until such regulation is -made by Congress,
the States may exercise the power within their respective limits.
5. That the law of New Hampshire was a regulation of commerce among the States in regard to the article for selling of which
the defendants were indicted and convicted ; but that the State law
was constitutionally passed,,because of the power of the State thus

JANUARY TERM; 1847.
License

609

Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

to regulate ; there being no regulation of Congress, special or general, in existence to which the State law was repugnant;
And, for these reasons, I think the judgment of the-State court
should be affirmed.
THURLOW V.

MASSACHUSETTS.

The statute of Massachusetts provides, that no person shall presume to be a retailer or seller of wine, brandy, rum, or other spirituous liquors, in a less quantity than twenty-eight gallons, and that
delivered and carried away all at 6ne time, unless he is first licensed
as a retailer of wine and spirits, as is provided in this chapter, on
pain of forfeiting twenty dollars for each offence.
The plaintiff, Thurlow, was found guilty by a jury for violating
this law, on which verdict the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts pronounced judgment ; and from which a writ of error was
prosecuted to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judidiciary Act of 1789. The bill of exceptions shows that some of
the sales charged, in the indictment were of foreign liquors ; in regard to which the court directed the jury that the license law applied
as well to imported spirits as to. domestic. It was proved that the
defendant below had sold in quantities of gallons, quarts, and pints,
And the question submitted for our consideration is, whether the
State law, and the judgment founded on it, are repugnant to the acts
of Congress authorizing the importation of wines, brandies, and other
foreign spirits ; and it is proper to remark, that our jurisdiction and
power to interfere involve the question merely of repugnance or no
repugnance ; if repugnance is found to exist, we must reverse, and
if not, we must affirm. • It follows, that the judicial ascertainment
of the fact will end the controversy.
For the plaintiff in error it is insisted, that the State law and the
judgment founded on it are repugnant to the acts of Congress authorizing the importation of foreign wines and spirits, and to their
introduction into the United States on paying a prescribed tax.
That the laws of the States cannot control the retail trade in such
liquors ; that if they can to any extent, they may prohibit their sale
altogether, and by this means do that indirectly which cannot he
done directly, that is to say, prohibit their introduction ; that the
purposes of wholesale importation being retail distribution, the.two
must go together ; if not, the first s of no value'; that importations
reach our country in large masses for the sole purposes of diffusion
and consumption, and unless Congress has the control of distribution
until the imported article reaches the consumer, the power to admit
and to regulate commerce in regard to it will be worthless, and little
better ban a barren theory, leaving us *.here we began. in 1789.
That amy law, therefore, that prohibits consumption necessarily destoys importation ; and the retail process being the, ordinary meanw

610

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

to consumption, and indispensable to it, to refuse this means would
wholly defeat the end Congress has protected ; that is to say, consumption. -On the soundness of this reasoning, the -result of the
controversy depends.
To this argument we answer, that under the power to regulate
foreign commerce, Congress can protect every article belonging to
foreign commerce, so rong as it does belong to it, from the operation of a tax or a license, imposed by a State law, that obstructs or
hinders the commerce. But the true inquiry here is, how long
does the imported article so continue ? The acts of Congress protect 1, imports," and prescribe the quantity and measure in which
they.shall be made ; the qtlestion of more or less is within the competency of Congress, but how long the imported article continues to
be "an import" is a different question, for so soon as it ceases to
be so, then it is beyond the power conferred on Congress "1to regulate foreign commerce," and that power cannot afford it further
protection. This is the line of jurisc iction where the powers of
Congress end, and where the powers of the States begin, wherr
dealing respectively with the imported article. And such is the
limit established in thecase of Brown v. The State of Maryland.
I do not mean to say that Congress may not protect an import for
the purposes of transmission over land, in the form it was imported,
from one State to another, for the purposes of distribution and sale
by the importer, as this 'can be done under the power to regulate
commerce-among the States. The question under examination is,
not what Congress may do, but what it has done. It has not permitted spirituous liquors to be imported in the quantities that they
were sold by the plaintiff in error.
_nd when the article passes by
sale from the hands of the importer into the hands of another, either
for the purposes of resale or of consumption, or is divided into
smaller quantities, by breaking 'up the casks, packages, &c., by'the
importer, the article ceases to be a protected "-import," according
to the legislation of Congress as it now stands, and therefore the
liquors sold in this instance did not belong to "foreign commerce,"
When sold at the retail house by single gallons, quarts, &c. When
thus divided and sold in the body of the State, the-foreign liquors became a part of its property, and were subject to be taxed, or to be
regulated by licenses, like any other property owned within the State.
But while foreign liquors, imported according to the regulations
of Congress, remain in the cask, bottle, &c., in the original form,
then the importer may sell them in that form at the port of entry,
or in any other part of the United States, nor can any State law
hinder the importer from doing so ; nor does it make any difference
'whether the imported article paid a tax on its introduction, or was
admitted as a free arti, le ; until it passes from the hands of-the importer, it is " an import," and belongs to regulated " foreign com-.
merce," and is protected.

611

JANUARY .TERM, 1847.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

It follows from the principles stated, that the spirituous liquors

'sold by the defendant stood on no higher ground thai domestic
spirits did, and that domestic spirits are subject to the State authority as objects of taxation, or of license in restraint of their sale,
is not a matter of controversy,.and certainly cannot be here, under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
I admit as inevitable, that, if the State has the power of restraint by licenses to any extent, she has the discretionary power to
judge of its limit, and may go to the length of prohibiting sales
altogether, if such be her policy ; and that if this court cannot interfere in the case before us, so neither could we interfere in the
extreme case of entire exclusion, except to protect imports belonging to foreign commerce, as already defined. The reasons are
obvious. We have no power to inquire into abuses (if such there
be) inflicted by State authority on the inhabitants of the State,
unless such abuses are repugnant to the constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States.
For the reasons above set forth, I think the judgment of the State
court should be affirmed.
And as the case of Joel Fletcher against the State of Rhode
Island depends on the same principles, to every extent, I think it
must be affirmed also.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
In the decision of the court, so far as it establishes the validity
of the license laws of the States of Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
and New -Hampshire, I entirely concur; and had the opinions of
judges in forming that decision been limited strictly to an inquiry
into the compatibility of those laws with the constitution of the
United States, or with a just exercise of State power (the only
inquiry, in my apprehension, regularly before the court), I should
have been spared the painful duty of disagreement with my brethren.
To this inquiry, however, those opinions, -according to my appre'hension, are by no means restricted. The majority of the judges,
in fulfilment of their own convictions, have seemed to me to go
beside the questions regularly before them, and in this departure
have propounded principles and propositions, against which, whensoever they may be urged as motives for action on my part, I shall
feel myself bound most earnestly to protest. It has been said, that
the principles here objected to have been already solemnly and fully
adjudged and established, and should therefore be no longer assailed.
The assertion as to the extent in which these principles have been
ruled, or the solemnity with which they have been fiked and settled,
may in the first place be justly questioned. -It is believed that they
have been directly adjudged in a single case only, and then under
the qualification of an able dissent.*
See 12 Wheaton, 449, the cpinion of Thompson, Justice.

-

612

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

But should this assertion be conceded in its greatest latitude, my
reply to it must be firmly and unhesitatingly tbis,-that in matters
involving the meaning and integrity of the constitution, I never can
consent that the text of that instrument shall be overlaid and smothered by the glosses of essay-writers, lecturers, and commentators.
Nor will I abide the decisions of judges, believed by me to be invasions of the great lex legum. I, too, have been sworn to observe
and maintain the constitution. I possess no sovereign prerogative
by which I can put my conscience into commission. I must interpret exclusively as that conscience shall dictate. Could I, in
cases of minor consequence, consent, in deference to others, to
pursue a different course, I should, in instances like the present, be
especially reluctant to place myself within the description of the
poet,-" Stat magni nominis umbra."
The doctrines which to me appear to have been gratuitously
brought into this case are those which have been promulged in the
reasoning of this court in the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, reported in 12 Wheaton, 419,-doctrines (and I-speak it with
all due respect) which I conceive cannot, by correct induction, be
derived from the constitution, nor even from the grounds assumed
for their foundation in the reasoning of the court in that case ; but
which, on the contrary, appear to be wholly illogical and arbitrary.
The doctrines adverted to are these. That under the operation of
that provision in the constitution which confers on Congress. the
power of regulating commerce with foreign nations, &c., &c., and
by the farther provision which prohibits to the States the power of
levying imposts or duties on imports, merchandise, or property
imported from abroad, -however completely its transit may have
been ended, however completely it shall have passed beyond all
agencies and obligations in reference to the federal government,
and however absolutel4, exclusively, and undeniably it shall have
become the property, and passed into the possession, of the citizen
resident within the State, and protected both in person and p.roperty by the laws of the State, - shall never become subject to
taxation, in common with other property of the same citizen, whilst
it shall remain in the bale, package, or form in .which it shall have
been imported, nor until (to use the language of the court) it shall
have been "broken up and mingled with the general mass of property."
With regard to this phrase, "broken up and mingled with the
mass of property," so often appealed to with the view to illustration, it nay be worth while to remark, in passing, how often words
introduced for the purpose of explanation are themselves the means
of creating doubt or ambiguity! With respect to the phrase above
mentioned, it may be retorted, that a person may import a steamengine, a piano, a telescope, or a horse, and many other subjects,
,hich could ziot be broken up in order to be mingled with the

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.,

613

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

general mass of property. If, then, this phrase is to be apprehended as signifying (and this alone seems its reasonable meaning)
the appropriation of a subject imported in absolute private right
and enjoyment, either positively or relatively, it surrenders the
whole matter in dispute, and admits that all the property of the citizen, who is himself protected in his person and in the enjoyment
of his property, is bound to contribute to the support of the government which yields this protection, whether he shall have imported that property, or purchased it at home..
By the 6th article and 2d clause of the constitution it is thus declared:
"That this cohnfitution and the laws of the United
States made in pursuance thereof, and treaties made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land.."
This provision of the constitution, it is to be feared, is sometimes
applied or expounded without those qualifications which the character of the parties to that instrument, and its adaptation to the
purposes for which it was created, necessarily imply. Every power
delegated to the federal government must be expounded in coincidence with a perfect right in the States to all that .they have not
delegated ; in coincidence, too, with the possession of every- power
and right necessary for their existence and preservation ; for it is impossible to believe that these ever were, in intention or in fact, ceded
to the general government. Laws of the United States, in order
to be binding, must be within the legitimate powers vested by the
constitution. Treaties, to be valid, must be made within the scope
of the same powers ; for there can be no "authority of the United
States," save what is derived mediately or immediately, and 'regularly and legitimately, from the constitution. A treaty, no more
than an ordinary statute, can arbitrarily cede away any one right of
a State or of any citizen of a Statd. In cases of alleged conflict
between a !awof the United States and the constitution, or between the law of a State and the constitution or a statute of the
United States, this court must pronounce upon the validity of either
law with reference to the constitution ; but whether the decision of
the court in such cases be itself binding or otherw;se must depend
upon its conformity with, or its warrant from, the constitution. It
cannot be correctly held, that a decision, merely because it be by
the Supreme Court, is to override alike the constitution and the
laws both of the States and of the United States. Let us test by
these principles - believed to be irrefragable - the power over
foreigni commerce vested in Congress by the constitution ; and also
the positions sought to be deduced 'from that grant of power by
the argument in Brown v. The State of Maryland. By art. 1, § 8,
clause 4,' of the constitution, it is declared, " that Congress shall
have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes." IT is with the first of the
grants in thib-article that we have now to deal. The commerce here
VOL. V.

52

614

SUPREME COURT.
Licease

Cases.-Mr

Justice Daniel's Opinion.

spoken of is that traic between the people of the 'United States
and foreign nations, by which articles are procured by purchase or
barter from abroad, or by which the like subjects of traffic are
transmitted from the United States to foreign countries ; keeping in
view always the essential characteristic of this commerce as stamped
upon it by the constitution, namely, that it is commerce with foreign
nations, or, in other words, that it is external commerce. By this,
however, is not meant that it should be external in reference to geographical or territorial lines, but in reference to the parties, and
the nature of their transactions. The power to regulate this commerce may properly comprise the times and places at which, the
modes and vehicles in which, and the conditions upon which, it
may as foreign commerce be carried on.; but precisely at that point
of its existence- that it is changed from foreign commerce, at that
point this power *of regulation in the federal government must
cease, the subject for the action of this power being gone. Independently of an express prohibition upon the States to lay duties
on imports, this power of regulating foreign commerce may correcty imply a denial to the States of a right to interfere with existing regulations over subjects of foreign commerce; but they must
be continuing, and still in reality, subjects of foreign commerce,
and such they can no longer be after that commerce with regard
to them has terminated, a d they are completely vested as property
in a citizen of a State, weher he be-the first, second, or third
proprietor ; if this were otherwise, then, by the same reasoning, they
would remain imports, or subjects of foreign commerce, through
every possible transmission of title, because they had been once
imported. Imports in apolitical or fiscal, as well as in common
practical acceptation, are properly commodities brought in from
abroad which either have not reached their perfect investiture or
theiralternate destination as property within the jurisdiction of the
State, or which still are subject to the power of the government
for a fulfilment of the conditions upon which they have been admitted to entrance; as, for instance, goods on which duties are
still unpaid, or which are bonded or in public warehouses. So
soon as they are cleared of all control of the government' which
permits their introduction, and have becore the complete and exelusive property of the citizen or resident, they are no longer imports in a political, or fiscal, or common sense. They are like all
other property of the citizen, and should be equally the subjects of
domestic regulation and taxation, ivhether owned by an importer or
his vendee, or may have. been purchased by cargo, package, bale,
piece, or yard, or by hogsheads, casks, or bottles. I can perceive
no rational distinction which can be taken upon the circumstance
of mere quantity, shape, or bulk ; oi on that of the number of
transmissions through -Which a commodity may have passed from
the. first proprietor, or of its remaining still with the latter. The

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License Cases. -Mr:

615

Justice Daniel's Opinion.

objection, that a tax upon an article in bulk (the property of a
citizen) is forbidden because it is a burden on foreign commerce,
whilst a similar burden is permissible on the very same bulk or on
fragments of the same article in the hands of his vendee, it would
appear difficult to reconcile with sound reasoning. Every tax is
alike a burden, whether it be imposed on larger or smaller subjelcts,
and in either mode must operate on price, and consequently on demand and consumption. If, then, there was any integrity in the objection urged, it should abolish all regulations of retail trade, all
taxes on whatever may have been imported.
It cannot be correctly maintained that State laws which may remotely or incidentally affect foreign commerce 'are on that account
to be deemed void. To render them so, they must be essentially
and directly in conflibt with some power clearly invested in Congress by the constitution; and, I would add, with some regulation
actually established by Congress in virtue of that power. In the
case of Brown. v. The, State of Maryland, it is said by the court,
that liberty to import implies unqualified liberty to sell at the place
of importation. In the argument of this case, the proposition just
mentioned does not, in all its amplitude, seem broad enough for
counsel, who have contended that liberty to import implies on the
part of the States a duty to encourage, if not to enforce, the consumption of foreign merchandise ; arising, it is affirmed, from a farther duty incumbent on the States to regard a priori the acts of the
federal government as wisest and best, and therefore imposing an
obligation on the States for cooperation with them. These very
exacting propositions, it is believed, can hardly be vindicated, either
by the legitimate meaning of words, or any correct theory of the constitutional powers of Congress. It cannot be necessary here to institute a criticism upon the words importation, sale, consumption, in
order to show either their etymological or ordinary acceptation, or
in order to expose the fallacy of the aforegoing new and startling
theory. Goods, moreover, may be imported into a country as into a
commercial entrep6t, for reshipment to other markets, and not for
consumption at all. But where importation may have been made
with the direct view to sell, it does not follow, by necessary inductioi, that permission for the former implies permission for the
latter, nor the power of granting the former the power of conferring
the latter ; much less, that it implies the power or the obligation on
the part of the government to command or insure a sale. Whatever might be the case under governments in which power is either
absolute or single, it is wholly otherwise under our system of confederated sovereignties. Here the power of the general government is emphatically delegated and limited, although it is paramount
so far as it has been delegated ; and when we look for this power
of the government in relation to this matter in the constitution, we
find it the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations; it

616

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

being the foreign character of that commerce alone which confers
on Congress any power whatsoever with respect to it. It has been
urged, that the importer pays a duty to the government for permission to introduce and vend his merchandise ; that it would be unjust,
therefore, to deprive him of the power of vending, as he never
would have imported except with the expectation of selling. To
this it may, in the first place, be replied, as has been remarked in the
argument at the bar, that the question here is one of constitutional
power ; and if the federal government shall have transcended its legitimate powers, I ask, can it be right, in any view, to compensate those
who may have suffered by the transgression, by authorizing unlimited reprisals upon the States ? But in truth no such right as the
one supposed is purchased by the importer, and no injury in any
accurate sense is inflicted on him by denying to him the power demanded. He has doubtless in view the profits resulting from the
sale of his commodities ; but he has not purchased and cannot
purchase fromthe government that which it could not insure to him,
a sale independently of the laws and polity of the States. He has,
under the, legitimate power of the federal goverhment to regulate
foreign commerce, .purchased the right to import, or introduce his
merchandise, -the right to come in with it in quest of a market, and
nothing beyond this. The habits, the tastes, the necessities, the
health, the morals, and the safety of society form the true foundation
of his calculations, or of any power or right which may be conceded to him.for the sale of his merchandise, and not any supposed
right in the federal government, in contravention of all these, to
enforce such sale.
The want of integrity in the argument under examination is
farther exposed, by showing that it will not cover the conclusion
sought to be drawn from it. If the right of the importer to vend,
and his exemption from taxation, are made to rest on the payment
of duties to the federal government, on what foundation must be.
rested his right and his exemption, in reference to articles on which
duties are neither paid nor exacted ? Are these to be left exclusively the subjects of State regtilation and State taxation ?
That they must be so left is a logical and inevitable conclusion
from the proposition that the right to vend flows from the payment
of duties. And then this argument involves the palpable absurdity,
that merchandise wJhich the government does not so strongly
favor as to admit without duty shall remain intact and sacred,
whilst merchandise which is so much preferred as to be admitted
freely - nay, whose introduction is in effect invited and solicited
by the federal government -- may be burdened by the States at
pleasure.
It has been insisted, that, as by treaty stipulations articles of
foreign merchandise have been admitted for consumption (and
much stress is laid upon thiB expression) in cdrtam specified

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.

-

617

Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

quantities, consequently by such stipulations forming the supreme
law of the land, the free sale of these articles must be an absolute
right. In what instances a treaty is or is not the supreme law, or is
no law at all, I have already endeavoured to distinguish. Passing,
therefore, that inestigation, it seems very clear that the proposition
just adverted to involves a great fallacy. The treaty stipulations
here exemplified" mean this, and nothing more, namely5 that whereas
certain enumerated commodities could heretofore be imported only
in greater quantities, for the use of those who might choose to buy
and consume them, they may hereafter be imported in lesser quantities. These stipulations no more signify that commodities shall
be circulated and used free of all internal regulation, than they convey a positive mandate for their being purchased and consumed,
eaten and drunk, nolens volens, or at all events. Every State that
is in any sense sovereign and independent possesses, and must possess, the inherent power of controlling property held and owned
within its jurisdiction, and in virtue and under the protection of its
own laws, whether that control be exerted in taxing it, or in determining its tenure, or in directing the manner of its transmission ;
and this, too, irrespective of the quantities in which it is held or
transferred, or the sources whence it may have been derived. Such
a power differs entirely from an authority essentially extraneous in
its character, - an authority limited and specific, by the very terms
which confer it ; restricted to action upon the progress of property
on its way to complete investment under the laws of the State.
The license laws of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New
Hampshire, now under review, impose no exaction on foreign commerce. They are laws simply determining the mode' in which a
particular commodity may be circulated within the respective jurisdictions of those States, vesting in their domestic tribunals a discretion in selecting the agents for such circulation, without discriminating between the sources whence commodities may, have been
derived. They do not restrict importation to any extent ; they do
not interfere with it, either in appearance or reality ; they do not
prohibit sales, either by wholesale or retail ; they assert only the
"power of regulating the latter, but this entirely within the sphere
of their peculiar authority.
These taws are, therefore, in violation neither of the constitution
of the United States, nor of any law nor treaty made in pursuance
or under the authority of the constitution. Viewing them in this
charactor, my co~peration is given in maintaining them, whatever
differences of opinion may exist in relation to their policy or necessity. But since, whilst extending to these laws their sanction and
support, there have been advanced by others principles* and opinions which to me appear to have their source not in the fountain of
all legitimate power in this or any other departmunt of the federal
government, I cannot by silence seem to assent to those principles
52#

618

SUPREME COURT.
License

Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

and opinions, nor put from me the obligation of declaring my dissent from them.
Mr. Justice NELSON concurred in the opinions delivered by
the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Catron.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY.
I concur in the conclusion of my brethren as to the judgment
which ought to be pronounced in all of the three license cases.
But, differing in some of the reasons for that judgment, and in
the limitations and extent of some of the principles involved, and
knowing the cases to possess much interest in the Circuit to which I
belong, and from which they all come, I do not feel at liberty to
"refrain from briefly expressing my views upon them.
The paramount question involved in all the cases is, whether license laws by the States for selling spirituous liquors are constitutional. It is true that several' other points are raised, as to evidence, the power of juries in criminal prosecutions to decide the
law as well as the facts, and other questions not connected with
the overruling of any clause in an act of Congress, or treaty, or the
constitution, which was interposed in the defence. But, confined
as we are to these last considerations in writs of error to State
courts, it would be travelling out of our prescribed path to discuss
at all either the other questions just alluded to, or some which have
been long and ardently agitated in connection with this subject ;
such, for instance, as the expediency of the license laws, or the
power of a State to regulate in any way the food and drink or clothing of its inhabitants. Fortunately, those questions belong to another and more appropriate.forum, - the State tribunals.
But, looking to, the relations which exist between the general
government and the different State sovereignties, the question,
whether the laws in these cases are within the power of the States
to pass, without an encroachment on the authority. of the general
government, is one of those conflicts of laws between the two governments, involving the true extent of the powers in each as regards
the other, which is very properly placed under our revision. Ir:
helping to discharge that duty on this occasio*n, I carry with me, -as
a controlling principle, the proposition, that State powers, State
rights, and State decisions are to be uph6Id when the obj~ction to
them is not clear, equally proper as it may be for them, when the
objection is clear, to give way to the supremacy of the authorized
measures of the general government. See Constitution, art. 3.
It-is not enough to fancy some remote or indirect repugnance to
acts of Congress, - a "ipotential inconvenience," - in order to
annul the laws of sovereign States,'and overturn the deliberate decisions of State tribunals. There must be an actual collision, a
direct inconsistency, and thai deprecated case of "1clashing sover-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

619

Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

eignties," in order to deniand the judicial interference of this court
to reconcile them. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 487;
1 Story's Com. on Const. 432.
These cases present two leading facts in respect to the material
points, which ought first to be noticed. Neither of them is a prosecution against the importer of spirit or wine from a foreign country; and in neither has a duty been imposed, or a, tax collected
by the State from the original defendant, in connection with these
articles. From this state of things, it follows, that, however much
has been said as to the collision between these license laws and some
former decisions of this court, no such direct issue is made up in
either of them.
The case usually cited in support of such a proposition is very
different. It is that of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, which
was a tax or license required, before the sale of an article, from the
importer of it from a foreign country ; and it was an importer alone
who called the constitutionality of the law in question. What do
these statutes, then, really seek to do ? They merely attempt tr
regulate the sale of spirit or wine within the limits of States, in regard to the quantity sold at any one time without a license from
the State authorities, - as in the cases from Massachusetts and
Rhode Island; and in regard to any sale whatever without such
license, -as in the case from New Hampshire.
It is true, also, that the quantity allowed to be sold in Massachusetts at any one time, without a license, is not so small as that
which is permitted by C ngress to be imported in kegs, and. in
Rhode Island is greater than that which Congress permits to be imported in bottles, and in New Hampshire is no, quantity whatever. Yet neither of the laws unconditionally prohibits importations.
Indeed, neither of them says any thing on the subject of importations. "The first inquiry then recurs, whether they do not all stand
on ;he same platform in respect to this, and without conflicting in this
respect with any act of Congress. My'opinion is that they do ; as
none of them, by prohibiting importations, oppose in terms any act
of Congress which allows them, and none seem to me to conflict,
in substance more than form, with entire freedom on that subject.
Nor in either case do they, in point of fact, amount to a prohibition of iniportations in any quantity, however small. Under them,
and so far as regards them, importations still go on abundantly into
each of those States. It is manifest, also, whether as an abstract
proposition or practical measure, that'a prohibition to import is one
thing, while a prohibition to sell without license is another and entirely different. The first would operate on foreign commerce, on
the voyage. The latter affects only the internal business of the
State after the foreign importation is coiapleted and on shore. In
thIfnext place,.in point of fact, neither of the laws goes so far as to
prohibit in terms the sales, any more than the imports, of spirits.

620

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

On'looking at the laws, this will be coneeded. But if such a prohibition existed as to sales, what act of Congress would it come in
collision with ? None has ever been passed which professes to regulate or permit sales within the States as a matter of commerce.
A good reason exists for this, as the subject of buying and selling
within a State is one as exclusively belonging to the power of the
State over its internal trade, as that to regulate foreign commerce is
with the general government, under the broadest construction of that
power.
And what power or measure of the general government would a
prohibition of sales within a State conflict with, if it consisted
merely in regulations of the police or internal commerce of the State
itself ? There is no contract, express or implied, in"any act of Congress, that the owners of property, whether importers or purchasers
from them, shall sell their articles in such quantities or at such times
as they please within the respective States. Nor can they expect
to sell on any other or better terms than are allowed by each State
to all its citizens, or in a manner different from what has comported
with the policy of most of the old States, as well before as since
the constitution was adopted. Any other view would not accord with
the usages of the country, or the fitness of things, or the unquestioned powers of all sovereign States, and, as is admitted, even of
those in this Union, to regulate both their -internal commerce and
general police. The idea, too, that a prohibition to sell would be
tantamount to a prohibition to import, does not seem to me either
logical or founded in fact. For, even under a prohibition to sell, a
person could import, as he often does, for his own consumption and
that'of his family and plantations ; and, also, if : merchant, extensively engaged in cormnerce, often does import articles with no view
of selling them here, but of storing them for a higher and more
suitable market in another State, or abroad. This was the paramount object in the law of Congress, so often cited, as to the importation of kegs of fifteen' gallons of brandy, - to have them in
proper shape to be regxported and carried on mules in Mexico,
rathier than to be sold for use here.
I should question the correctness of this objection even were it
the doctrine in Brown v. Maryland, though .I do not regard it as
the point there settled, or the substantial reason for it. See Chief
Justice Parker's Opinion in The State of New Hampshire v.
Peirce, in Law Rep. for September, 1845. That point related
rather to the want of power in a State to lay a duty on imports.
But it is earnestly urged, that, as these acts indirectly prohibit
sales, such a prolibition of sales is indirectly a prohibition of
importations, and importations are certainly regulated by Congress.
It is necessary to scrutinize the grounds on which such circuitous
reasoning and analogy rest. The sale of spirit being still permitted
in all these States, as before remarked, it is first objected, that it is

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

621

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

permitted in certain quantities only, except under license, and that
this restricts and lessens both the sales and imports. But the leading object of the license is to insure the sales of spirit in quantities
not likely to encourage intemperance, and at places and times, and
by persons, conducive to the same end. This is the case in New
Hampshire, where none can be sold without license, while in the two
other States, if no license is granted, the owner may sell in ten or
twenty-eight gallons at a time ; and in all the three States, the owner may, without license, consume what he imports, or store and reexport it for a market elsewhere. So the laws of most of the
States forbid sales of property on the Sabbath. But who ever regarded that as prohibiting there entirely either their imports or
sales ?
It is further argued, however, that the license laws- accomplish
indirectly what is hostile to the policy of Congress, and thus conflict with the spirit of its acts, as much as if they prohibited absolutely both importations and sales. But if effecting this at all, it
must be because they tend to lessen, and are designed to lessen, the
consumption of foreign spirits, and thus help to reduce the imports
and sales of them.
The case. from New Hampshire is in this respect less open to
objection than the others, the spirit there having been domestic.
But as it came in coastwise from another State, it may involve a
like principle in another view ; and in its prohibitory character as
to selling any liquor without license, the New Hampshire statute
goes farther than either of the others.
Now, can it be maintained that every law which tends to diminish
the consumption of any foreign or domestic article is unconstitutional, or violates acts of Congress ? For that is the essence of
this point. So far from this, whatever promo.tes economy in the
use or consumption of any articles is certainly desirable, and to be
encouraged by both the State and general governments. Improvements of that kind by new inventions and labor-saving machinery
are encouraged by patents and rewards. M1ore especially is it
sound policy everywhere to lessen the consumption of luxuries,
and in particular those dangerous to public morals. So in respect
to foreign articles, the disuse of them is promoted by both the
general and State governments in -everal other ways, rather than
treating it as unconstitutional or against the acts of Congress"
though the revenue as well as consumption be thereby diminished.
Thus, the former orders the, purchase of only domestic hemp for
the navy, when ii can be obtained of a suitable quality and price
(Resolution, 18 February, 1843, 5 Statutes at Large,648). And
some of the States have often bestowed bounties on the growth of
hemp, and of wheat, and other useful articles. An exception like
this Would cut so deep and wide into other'usages and policy well
established, as to need lio further refutation.' But this objection is

622

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

mixed up with another, - that the operation of these license laws is
unconstitutional, because they'lessen the amount of revenue which
the general government might otherwise derive from the importation
of that which is made abroad. It may be a sufficient reply to this,
that Congress itself, by its own revenue system, has at times, by very
high duties on some articles, meant to diminish their consumption,
and reduce the revenue which otherwise might be derived from
them if allowe.d to be introduced more largely under a.small duty.
And in this very article of spirits it has confessedly, from the foundation of the government, made the duties high, so as to discourage
their use ; and this int the very, last tariff of 1846, though considered
to be more emphatically, a mere revenue measure. So its actual
policy for fifteen years has been to lessen the use of spirit in both
the army and navy ;. and by the thir'd section of the act of Aug.
29th, 1842, ch. 267 (5 Statutes at Large, 546), this .policy is
recognized and encouraged by law.
So, wheii resorting to internal duties, for a like reason in part,
stills and the manufacture of whiskey have been the first resorted
to, and at last, in order to discourage the making of molasses into
New England rum, the drawback on the former when manufactured
into spirit and exported is allowed to stand now on a footing much
less favorable than that on sugar when refined and exported.
Again, where States look to the most proper objects of domestic
taxation, it is perfectly competeit"for them to assess a higher tax or
excise, by way of license or direct assessment, on articles of foreign
rather than domestic growth belonging to her citizens ; and it ever has
been done, however it may discourage the use of the former, or
lessen the revenue which might otherwige be derived from them.by
the general government, or tend to, reduce imports, as well as restrict the sale of 'them when considered of a dangerous character.
The ground is, therefore, untenable entirely, that a course of
legislation which serves to discourage what is foreign, whether it be
by Congress or-the States, is for that reason alone contrary to the
constitution, even if it tend at thesame time to reduce the amount
of revenue which would otherwise accrue from foreign iiports, or
from those of that particular article.
Importations, then, being left unforbidden in all of these cases,
and the right to sell with a license not being prohibited in any of
them, - nor without one prohibited, except qualifiedly in two of
them, and in the other ansolutely, but not affecting foreign imports
at all in that case, as the spirit sold there was of domestic manufacture, - I pass to the next constitutionhl objection.
It has been contended, that the sum required to be paid for a license, and the penalty imposed for selling without one, are in the
nature of a 'duty on imports, and thus come within the principle
really settled in Brown v. Maryland, and thus conflict with the constitution. It is conceded, that a State is forbidden "to lay any im-

JANUARY
License

TERM, 1847.

623

Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

post or duties on imports" without the assent of Congress. (Art.
1, § 10.) But neither of these statutes purports to tax imports
from abroad of foreign spirits, or imports from another State, either
coastwise or by land, of either foreign or domestic spirits. The
last mode is not believed to be that referred to in the constitution,
and no regulation has ever been made by Congress concerning it
when consisting of domestic spirits, as in the case of New Hampshire, except with a view to prevent smuggling. Act of Congress,
Sept. 1, 1789, ch. 11, § 25, and Feb. 18, 1793, ch. 8, § 14 ; 1
Statutes at Large, 61, 309.
Nor does either of these statutes purport to tax the introduction
of an article by the merchant importing it, much less to impose any
duty on the article itself for revenue, in addition to what Congress
requires. Neither of theri appears to be, in'character or design, a
fiscal measure. They do not"touch the merchandise till it has become a part of the property and capital of the State, and then
merely regulate the disposal of it under license, as an affair of police
and internal commerce. They might then even tax it as a part of
the commercial stock in trade, and thus subject it, like other property, to a property tax, without being exposed to be considered an
impost on imports, so as to conflict with the constitution. But the
penalty and license in these cases are imposed diverso intuitu, and
not as a tax of anyltind. Hence they operate no more in substance
than in form, as an impost of the prqhibited character.
There is no pretence that the penalty is for revenue ; and if the
small sum taken for a license should ever exceed the expense and
trouble of supervising the matter, and become a species of internal
duty or excise, it would operate on spirit made in the State as well
as that made elsewhere, and on others as well as importers, and, like
any State tax on local property, or local trade, or local business, be
free from any qonflict with the constitution or acts of Congress.
And what seems decisive in these causes as to this aspect of the
question is, that neither of the persons here prosecuted was ;n fact
an importer of foreign spirit or wines, or set up a defence of that
kind as to himself, on the trial, which was overruled in the State
courts.

Nor can the proposition, sometimes advanced, be vindicated,
that this license, if a tax, and falling at times on persons not citizens,
whether they belong to other States or are aliens, is either unjust or
unconstitutional.. It falls on them only when within the limits of the
State, under the protection of its laws and seeking the privileges of
its trade, and only in common with their own citizens.
Such taxes
are justifiable on principles of international law (Vattel, B. 8, ch.
10, § 132), and I can find no clause in the constitution with which
they come in collision.
Again; it has been strenuously insisted on in these cases, and

perhaps it is the leading position, that these license laws are virtually

624

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

regulations of foreign commerce; and hence, when passed by a
State, are exercising a power exclusively vested in the geneial government, and therefore void. This is maintained, whether they actually conflict wth any particular act of Congress or not. But, dizsenting from any such definition of that power, as thus exclusive
and thus abrogating every measure of a State which by construction
may be deemed a iregulation of foreign commerce, though not at all
conflicting with any existing act of Congress, or with any thing ever
likely to be done by Congress, I shall not, on this occasion, go at
length into the reasons for my dissent to the exclusive character of
this power, because these license laws are not, in my opinion, regulations of foreign commerce, and in a recent inquiry on the circuit I have gone very fiully into the question. The United States
v. New Bedford Bridge, in Massachusetts District.
My reasons are in brief, 1. The grant is in the same article of the constitution, and in
like language, with others whic h this court has pronounced not to be
exclusive, e. g. the regulation of weights and measures, of bankruptcy, and disciplining the militia.
2. There is nothing in its nature, in several respects, to render it
more exclusive than the other grants, but, on the contrary, much in
its nature to permit and require the concurrent and auxiliary action
of the States. But I admit, that, so far as regards the uniformity
of a regulation reaching to all the States, it must in these cases, of
course, be exclusive; no State being able to prescribe rules for
others as to 'bankruptcy, or weights and measures, or the militia, or
for foreign commerce. A want of attention to this discrimination
has caused most of the difficulty. But there is much in connection,
with foreign commerce which is local within each State, convenient
for its regulation and useful to the public, to be acted on by each
till the power is abused or some course is taken by Congress conflicting with it. Such are the deposit of ballast in harbours, the extension of wharves into tide-water, the supervision of the anchorage
of ships, the removal of obstructions, the allowance of bridges with
suitable draws, and various other matters that need not be enumerated, blside the exercise of numerous police and health powers,
which are also by manny claimed upon different grounds.
This local, territorial, and detailed legislation should vaiy in
different States, and is better understood by each than by the general government ; -and hencb, as the colonies under an empire
usually attend to all such local legislation within their limits, leaving
only general outlines and rules to the parent country at home, as
towns, cities, and. corporations do it through by-laws for themselves,
after the State legislature lays down general principles, and as the
war and navy departments and courts of justice make detailedrules under general laws, so here the States, not conflicting with
any uniform and general regulations by Congress as to foreign com-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

625

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

merce, must for convenience, if not necessity, from the very nature
of the power, not be debarred from any legislation of a local and
detailed character on matters connected with that commerce omitted
by Congress. And to hold the power of Congress as to such
topics exclusive, in every respect, and prohibitory to the States,
though never exercised by Congress,. as fully as when in actiye
operation, which is the opposite theory, would create infinite inconvenience, and detract much from the cordial co~peration and
consequent harmony between both governments, in their appropriate
spheres. It would nullify numerous useful laws and regulations in
all the Atlantic and commercial States in the Union.
If this view of the subject conflicts with opinions laid down obiter
in some of the decisions made by this court (9 Wheat. 209 ; 12
ibid. 438 ; 16 Peters, 543), it corresponds with the conclusions
of several judges on this point, and does not, in my understanding
of the subject, contradict any adjudged case in point. 5 Wheat. 49 ;
Willson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Peters, 245 ; 11
ibid. 132 ; 14 ibid. 579 ; 16 ibid. 627, 664 ; 4 Wheat. 196.
But, without going farther into this question, it is enough here to
say, that these license laws do not profess to be, nor do they oper
ate as, regulations of foreign commerce. They neither direct how
it shall be carried on, nor where, nor under what duties or penalties.
Nothing is touched by them which is on shipboard, or-between ship
and shore ; nothing till within the limits of a State, and out of the
possession and jurisdiction of the general government.
It is objected, in another view, that such licenses for selling domestic spirit may affect the commerce in it between the. States,
which by the constitution is placed under the regulation of Congress as much as foreign commerce.
But this licnse is a regulation neither of domestic commerce
between the States, nor of foreign commerce. It does not operate
on either, or the imports of either, till they have entered the State
and become component parts of its property. Then it has by~the
constitution the exclusive power to regulate its own internal commerce and business in such articles, and bind all'residents, citizens
or not, by its regulations, if -hey ask its protection and privileges ;
and Congress, instead of being opposed and thwarted by regulations
as to this, can no more interfere in it than the States can interfere
in regulation of foreign commerce. If the proposition was maintainable, that, without any legislation by Congress is to the trade
between the States (except that in coasting, as before explained, to
prevent smuggling), any thing imported from another State, foreign
or domestic, could be sold of right in the package in which it was
imported, not subject to any license or internal regulation of a
State, then it is obvious that the whole license system may be
evaded and nullified, either from abroad, or from a neighbouring
State. And the more especially can it be done from the latter; as
VOL. v.
53

626

SUPREME COURT.
License Cases.-Mr. J ustice Woodbury's Opinion.

inports may be made in bottles of any size, down to half a pint, of
spirits or wines ; and if its sale cannot be interfered with and regulated, the retail business can ' be carried on in any small quantity,
and by the most irresponsible and unsuitable persons, with perfect
impunity.
The apprehension that the States, by these license systems, are
likely to impair the freedom of trade between "each other, is hardly
verified by the experience of a half-century. Their conduct has
been so liberal and just thus far on this matter as never to have
called for the legislation of Congress, which it clearly has the power
to make in respect to the commerce between the States, whenever
any occasion shall require its interposition to check imprudences or
abuses on the part'of any one of them towards the citizens of another. Some have objected, next, that these laws violate our foreign
treaties, such as those, for example, with Great Britain and Prussia,
which stipulate for free ingress and egress as to our ports, as well
as for a 'participation in our interior trade. See 8 Statutes at
Large, 116, 228, 378. But those arrangements do not profess 'to
exempt their people from local taxation here, or local conformity to
licehse systems, operating, as these State laws d o, on their own
citizens and their own domestic-product6 in the same way, and to
the same extent, as on iforeign ones. And neither of those laws in
this case forbid access to our ports, or importation into the.several
States, by' the inhabitants of any foreign countries.
In settling the question whether these laws impugn treaties, or
regulate either foreign commerce or that between the States, or
impose a duty on imports, ordinary justice to the States demands
that they be presumed to have meant what they profess till the
contrary is shown. Hence, as these laws were passed by States
possessing experience, intelligence, and a high tone of morals, it is
neither legal nor liberal to attempt to nullify them by any forced
construction, so as to make them regulations of foreign commerce,
'or measures to collect revenue by a duty on foreign imports, thus
imparting to them a character different from that professed by their
authors, or from that which, by their provisions and tendency, they
appear designed for.. These States are as incapable of duplicity
or fraud in their laws, of meaning one thing and professing another,
as the purest among their accusers ; and while legitimate and constitutional objects are assigned, and means used which seem' adapted
to such ends, it is illiberal to impute other designs, and to construe
their legislation as of a sinister character, which they never contemplated. Thus, on the face of them, these laws- relate exclusively
to the regulation of licensed houses and the sales of an article whichb,
especially where retailed in .small quantities, is likely to attract
together within the State unusual numbers, and encourage idleness,
wastefulness, and drunkenness. • To mitigate, if not prevent, this
last evil was undoubtedly th6ir real design.

JANUAIRY TERM, 1847.
License

627

Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

From "the first settlement of this country, and in most other nations, ancient or modern, civilized or savage, it has been found useful to discountenance excesses in the use of intoxicating liquor. And
without entering here into the question whether legislation may not,
on this as other matters, become at times intemperate, and react
injuriously to the salutary objects sought to be piomoted, it is
enough to say, under the general aspect of it, that the legislation
here is neither novel nor extraordinary, nor apparently designed to
promote .other objects than physical, social, and moral improvement: On the contrary, its tendency clearly is to reduce family
expenditures, secure health, lessen pauperism and crime, and cooperate with, rather than cotnteract, the apparent policy of the
general government itself in respect to the disuse of ardent spirit.
They aim, then, at a right object. They are calculated to promote it. They are adapted to no other. And no other, or sinister,
or improper view can, therefbre, either with delicacy or truth, be
imputed to them.
But I go further on this point than some of the court, and wish
to meet the case in front,-and in its worst bearings. If, as in the
view of some, these license laws were really in the nature of partial
or entire prohibitions to gell certain articles within the limits of a
State, as being dangerous to public health and morals, or were
virtual taxes on them as State property in a fair ratio with other
taxation, it does not seem to me that their conflict with the constitution wouli, by any means, be clear. Taking for granted,.till the
contrary appears, that the real design in passing them for such purposes is the avowed one, and especially while their provisions are
suited to effect the professed object, and nothing beyond that, and
dQ not apply to persons or things, except where within the limits
of State territory, they wouldjappear entirely defensible as a matter
of right, though prohibiting sales.
Whether such laws" of the States as to licenses are to be classed
as police measures, or as regulations of their internal commerce, or
as taxation merely, imposed on local property and local business,
and are to be justified by each or by all of them together, is of
little Consequence, if they are laws which from their nature and
object must belong to all sovereign states..- Call them by whatever name, if they are necessary to the well-being and independence of all communities, they remain among the reserved rights of
the States, no express grant of them to the general government
having been either proper, or apparently embraced in the constitution. So, whether they conflict or not indirectly and slightly with
some regulations of foreign commerce, after the subject-matter of
that commerce touches the soil or waters within the limits of a
State, is not perhaps very material, if they do not really relate to
that commerce, or any other topic within the jurisdiction of the
general government.

628

SUPREME COURT.

*

License Cases.-Mrp- Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

As a general rule, the power of a State over all matters not
granted away must be as full in the bays, ports, and harbours within
her territory, intra fauces terrws, as on her wharves and shores,
or interior soil. And there can be little check on such legislation,
bbyond the discretion of each State, if we consider the great conservative reserved powers of the States, in their quarantine or
health systems, in the regulation of their internal commerce, in
their authority over taxation, and, in short, every local measure necessary to protect themselves, against persons or things dangerous
to their peace and their morals.
It is conceded that the States may exclude pestilence, either to
the body or mind, shut out the plague or cholera, and, no less,
obscene paintings, lottery tickets,.and convicts. Holmes v. Jennison
et al., 14 Peters, 568; 9 Wheat. 203; 11 Peters, 133. How
can they be sovereign within their, respective spheres, without
power to regulate all their.internal commerce, as well as police, and;
direct how, when, and where it shall be conducted in articles intimately connected either with public morals, or public safety, or the
public prosperity ? See Vattel, B. 1, ch. 19, §§ 219, 231.
The list of interdicted articles and persons is a long one in most
European governments, and, though in some cases not very judicious or liberal, is in others most commendable ; and the exclusion
of opium from China is an instance well known in As;a, and kindred in its policy. The introduction and storage of gunpowder in
large quantities is one of those aticles long regulated and forbidden
here. New York v. ,iln, 11 Peters, 102. Lottery tickets and
indecent prints are also a common subject of prohibition almopt"
everywhere. 6 Greenleaf, 412 ; 4-Blackford, 107. See the tariff of 1842 ; 5 Stat. at Large, 566, § 28, And 'why not cards,
dice, and other hstruments for gaming, when thought necessary to
suppress that vice ? In short, on what principle but this rests the
justification of the States to prohibit gaming itself, wagers, champerty, forestalling, - not to speak of the debatable cases of usury,
marriage brokage bonds, 'and many other matters deemed either
impolitic or criminal ?
It might not comport with the usages or laws of nations to. impose mere transit duties on articles or men passing through a State,
and however resorted to in some places and on some occasions, it
is usually illiberal, as well as injudiciois. Vattel, B. 8, ch. 10.
And if resorted to here, in respect to the business or imports of
citizens of other States, might clearly conflict with some pfovisions
of the constitution conferring on them equal rights, and be a regulation of the commerce between the States, the power over which
they have expressly granted to the general government. But the
present case is not of that character. Nor would it be, if prohibiting sales within the acknowledged limits of a State, in cases affecting public morals or public health. Nor 'is there in this case

ANUARY TERM, 1847.

629

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

any complaint, either by a foreign merchant or foreign nation, that
treaties are broken ; or by any of our own States or by Congress,
that its acts or the constitution have been violated.
There are additional illustrations of such powers, existing on
general principles in all independent states, given in Puffendorf,
B. 8, ch. 5, § 30, as well as in various other writers on national
law. And those exercised under what he terms " sovereign or
transcendental propriety" "(§ 7th), and those which we class under the right of " eminent domain," are recognized in the fifth
amendment to the constitution itself, and go far beyGnd this.
Much more is there an authority to forbid sales, where an authority exists both to seize and destroy the article itself, as is often
the case at quarantine.
So the power to-forbid the sale of things is surely as extensive,
and rests on as broad pripciples of public security and sound morals,
as that to exclude persons.

And yet who does not know that

slaves have been prohibited admittance by many of our States,
whether coming from their neighbours or abroad ? And which of
them cannot forbid their soil from being polluted by incendiaries
and felons from any quarter'?
Nor is there in my view any power conferred on the general government which has a right to 'control this matter of internal commerce or police, while it is fairly exercised so as to accomplish a
legitimate object, and by ineans adapted legally and suLlitably to such
end alone. New .Hampshirehas, for many years, made it penal to
bring" into her limits paupers even from other States ; and this is.
believed to be a power exercised widely in Europe among independent nations, as well as in this country among the States. New
Hampshire Revised Statutes, Paupers, 140.
It is the undoubted and reserved power of every State here, as a
political body, to decide, independent of any proviisions made by
Congress, though subject not to conflict with any of them when
rightful, who shall compose its population, who become its residents, who its. citizens, who enjoy the privileges of its laws, and be
entitled. to their protection and favor, and what kind of property
and business it will tolerate and protect. And nb one government,
or its agents or navigators, possess any right to make another State,
against its consent, a penitentiary, or hospital, or poor-house farm
for its wretched outcasts, or a receptacle for its poisons to health,
and instruments of gambling and debaucheryw Indeed, this court
has deliberately said,'-" We entertain no doubt whatsoever, that
the States, in virtue of their general police power, possdss full jurisdiction to arrest and restrain runaway slaves, and remove them
from their borders, and otherwise to secure themselves against their
depredations and evil example, as they certainly may do in cases
of idlers, vagabonds, and pauper." Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16
Peters, 625.
53*

630

SUPREME COURT.
Lice'nse Cases.-Mr. -Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

There may be some doubt whether the general government or
each State possesses the prohibitory power, as to persons or property
of certain kinds, from coming into 'the limits of the State. But it
must exist sohmewhere ; and it seems to me rather a police power,
belonging to the States, and to be exercised in the manner best
suited to the tastes' and institutions of each, than one anywhere
granted or proper to the peculiar duties of the general goverriment.
Or, if vested in.the latter at all, it is but concurrent. Hence, when
the latter prohibited the import of obscene prints in the tariff c"
1842, it was a novelty, and was considered by some more properly
to be left to the States, as it opened the door to a prohibition, or
to prohibitory duties, to many articles by the general govrnment
which some States might desire, but others not wish to come in as
competitors to their own manufactures. But, as previously shown,
to prohibit sales is not the same power, nominally or in substance,
as to prohibit imports.
It is possible, that, under our system of double governments over
one and the same people, the States bannit prohibit the mere arrival
of vessels and cargoes which they may deani dangerous in character
to their public peace, or public morals, or general, health: This
might, perhaps, trench on foreign commerce. Nor can they *tax'
them as imports. This might trench on that part of the constitution which forbids States to lay duties on imports. But after articles have come within the territorial limits of States, whether on
land or water, the destruction- itself of what contains disease and
death, and the longer continuance of such articles within their limits,
or the. terrs and conditions, of their continuance, when conflicting
with their legitimate police, or with their power over internal commerce, or with their right of taxation over all persons and property
under their protection and jurisdiction, seems one of the first principles of State sovereignty, and indispensable to public safety.
Such extraordinary powers, I concede, are to be exercised with
caution, and only when necessary or clearly justifiable in.emergencies, on sound and constitutional principles; and, if used too
often, or indiscreetly, would open a door to inudh abuse. 'But the
powers seem clearly to exist in the States, and ought to'remain
ther6; and though, in this instance, they are not used to this
extent, but still, as respectable minorities within these three States
believe' not to be useful, and as some othei States do not think
deserving imitation, yet they are used as the competent and constitutiorial power within each has judged to be proper for its own
welfare, and as does not appear to be repugnant to any part of the
constitution, or a treaty, or an act of Congress. They must, therefore, not be interfere4"with by this court, and the more especially
as one reason why these powers have been left with the States is,
that the subject-matter &fthem is' bettef 'understood by each State
than by the Union ; andthe 'policy and opinions and usages of one

JANUARY TERM; 1847.

631

License Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

State in relation to some of them may be very unlike those-of
others, 4nd therefore require a different system of legislation.
Where can such a power, also be safer lodged than with those
public bodies, oi States, who are themselves to be the greatest
sufferers in interest and character by an improper use of it ? If. it
should happen 4t any time to be exeteised injudiciously, that circumstance would furnish a ground for an appeal rather to the intelligence and prudence of the State, in respect to its modification or
•epeal, than an authority for this court, by a writ of error, to interere with We well-considered decision of a State court, and reverse
it, and pronounce a State law null and void, merely on that account.
Many State laws are such, that their expediency and justice may
be doubted'widely, and by this tribunal; but this confers no authority on us to nullify them ; nor is any such authority, for sucha cause,
conferred on Congress by any part of the constitution.
The States stand properly on their reserved rights, within their
own powers and sovereignty, to judge of the expediency and wisdom of their own laws.; and while they take care not to violate
clearly any portion of the constitution or -statutes of the general
govemment, our duty to that constitution and laws; aid our respect
for State rights,. must require us not to interfere.
Mr. Justice GRIER.,
I concur with my brethren in affirming the judgment in this and
the preceding cases on the same subject, buf for reasons differing
somewhat from those expressed by the other members of the court ;
and as I concurred mainly with the opinion- delivered 'by Mr.
Justice McLean in the case of Thurlow b. Massachusetts, I bad
concluded to be silent, and therefore am not prepared to express
my views at length. I take this occasion, however, to remark, that
the true question presented by these cases, and one which I am not
disposed to evade, is, whether the States have a right to prohibit
the sale and consumption of an .article of commerce which they
believe to be pernicious in its effects, and the cause of'disease,
pauperism, and crime. I do not. corisider the question of the exclusiveness of the power of Congress to regulate commerce asnecessarily connected with the decision of this point;
It has been frequently decided by this couft, " that' the powers
which relate to merely municipal regulations, or what may more
properly be called internal police, are not surreniiered by the States,
or restrained by the constitution of the United States ;'and thdt
tonsequently, in relation to these, the authority of a State is comWithotit attempting to define
plete, unqualified, and conclusive."
what are the peculiar subjects or limits of this power, it may safely
be affirmed, that every law for the restraint and punishment- of
crime, for the preservation of the public peace, health, andmorals,
must come within this category.

632

SUPREME COURT.
License

Ctisss.-Order of Court.

As subjects of legislation, they are from their very nature of
primary importance ; they lie at the foundation of social existence ;
they are for the protection of life and liberty, and necessarily compel
all laws on subjects of secondary importance, which relate only to
property, convenience, or luxury, to recede, when they come in conflict or collision, "1salus populi suprema lex."
If the right to control these subjects be "complete, unqualified,
and exclusive " in the State legislatures, no regulations of secondary importance can supersede or restrain their operations, on any
ground of prerogative or supremacy. The exigencies of the social
compact require that such laws be executed before and above all
others.
It is for this reason that quarantine laws, which protect the
public health, compel mere commercial regulations to submit to
their control. They restrain the liberty of the passengers, they
operate on the ship which is the instrument of commerce, and its
officers and crew, the agents of navigation. They seize the infected
cargo, and cast it overboardi The soldier and the sailor, though
in the service of the government, are arrested, imprisoned, and
punished for their offences against society. Paupers and convicts
are refused admission into the country. All these things are done,.
not from any power which the States assume to regfilate commerce
or to interfere with the regulations of Congress, but because police
laws for the presei-vation of health, prevention of crime, and protection .of the public welfare, must of necessity have full and free Operation, according to the exigency which requires.their interference.
It is not necessary for the sake of .justifying the State legislation now under consideration to array the appalling statistics of
misery, pauperism, and crime which have their origin in the use
or abuse of ardent spirits. The police power, which is exclusively
in the States, is alors competent to the correction of these great
evils, and all measures of restraint or prohibition necessary to effect
the purpose are within the scope of that authority. There is no
conflict of power, or of .legislation, as between the States and the
United States; each is acting within its sphere, and for the public
good, and if a loss of revenue should accrue to the United States
from a diminished consumption of ardent spirits, she will, be the
gainer, a thousandfold in the health, wealth, and happiness of the
people.
Order.
SAMUEL

THURLOW v. THE COMMONWEALTH
CHUSETTS.

OF MASSA-

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Judicial Court, holden in and for the county of
Essex, in the Commonwealth of, Massachusetts, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and ad-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
License

Cases.

-

633

Order of Court.

judged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Judicial
Court'in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with. costs.
Order.
JOEL

FLETCHER v.

THE

STATE

OF

RHODE

ISLAND

AND

PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.

This cause came on to be" heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, holden at Providence, Within and for the county
of Providence, -and was argued by counsel. On consid
ion
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs.
Order.
THOMAs W. PEIIRCE, v. THE
STATE OF NEw HAMP'SHIRE.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court of Judicature in and-for the first judicial
district of the State of New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the. said Superiqr Court of Judicature in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs.
ANDREW PEIRCE,

JUNIOR, 'AND

