JANUARY TERM, 1847.

103

Barry v. Mercein et al.

principal was bound to relive him. Such a payment is a sufficient
consideration to raise an implied assumpsit to repay the amount,
though the payment was made without a request'from the principal.
Tappin v. Broster, 1 C. & P. 112 ; Exall v. Partridge, 8 term
R. 310; Child v. Morley, ibid. 610..
We shall decide the first point certified to be answered in the
affirmative, which makes it unnecessary to notice the second.
Order..
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from* the Cirauit Court of the United States, for the District of
Maryland, and on 'the points and questions on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in ,opinion, and which were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the acts of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argue.d by counsel.
In consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this eourt'that the
plaintiff in this case is entitled to recover of the defendant the
money paid by the plaintiff to Thornton, as being money paid for
his (Smith's) use. Whereupon it is now here ordered and adiadged
by this court that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

JoHm A. BAnRy, PLAIN. 7F IN ERROR, V;
ANN BArRY.

.ARY IERCEIN AND ELIA

This court has no appellate power, in a case where the Circuit Court refused to
grant a writ of habeas corpus, prayed for by a father to take his infant child out
of the citody of it mother.'
The judgVuetats of a Circuit Court can be reviewed only where the matter iniispute
exceee
the sum or value of two thousand dollars. It must have a known and
certain value which can be proved and calculated in the ordinary mode of business transactionh.
But a controversy between a father and mother, each claiming the right to the.
custody, care,.and society of their child, relates to a matter in dispute which'is

'napable
ofbeing reduced to any pecuniary standard of value.

The w*rt of rror mustf be dimnime, for want ofjuri-iction.

Tnis case was brough.up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern 'District of New York.
The facts are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the court, to
which the reader is referred.A motion was made by the counsel for the defendants, in error,
viz. Jir. William W. Campbell and J11r. Rockwell, to dismiss
the case fox want of. jurisdiction, which motion was opposed by X1r.
Barry, in proper person.
fr. Campbell, for the motion.
In the summer of 1844, John A. Barry, the plaintiff in error, pre-

104

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mercein

et al.

sented his'petition to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, praying that a writ of habeas corpus ad'subjiciendum
might issue, directing Eliza Ann Barry; the wife of petitioner, and
Mary Mercein, her mother, to bring up the person of an infant child,
the dadighter of,'the petitioner and the said Eliza Ann, his wife, and
Which infant daughter was in the custody of'the said Mary Mercein
and Eliza Ann Barry.- Previous to this period, and for more than
five years, a controversy had been going forward in the courts of
New York, prosecuted-by the petitioner, for the purpose of obtaining thecustody of this same child. Three or four times writs of
habeas corpu had been granted by thelc'al -Courts of that State,
and indeed in one form or another all the courts, both of common
,law and of equity, had passed upon this vexed and protracted litigation. Twice had the court of last resort, the Court of Errors, after
solemn" and able arguments, passed upon the case, and refused to
grant the application of the petitioner. The relatives of Mrs. Barry
were wearied in mind, and exhausted ahost of resources, by the
long, persevering, and vexatious proceedings of the plaintiff in error
in this cause.
Prior, however, to the application to the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of. New York, the plaintiff in error applied to
this court for a writ of habeas corpus, which was refused. I shall
have occasion to refer to these decisions hereafter.
In his application t6 the Circuit Court, in order to bring himself
within the provisions of the constitution and laws of the United
States, the petitioner sets forth that he is a natural born subject of the
queen of Great Britair, and claims that the said infant child, though
born in th6 State of New York, of a. mother who' is a native of
that State, is also a British subject and allegien to the British
crown.
. , After a pati6nt hearing and a careful investigation of the law and
thq facts,. Judge Betts refbsed to allow the writ, and he gave his resons in an opinion of- great length, in which he enters upon a
review of the' whole law upon the subject. I feel ihat there is
nothing to be-added to that opinion. It is able, lucid, and it seems
to me entirely conclusive. While it is in'the highest degree creditable to him as a judge of the courts of the United States, it is at
the same time a. masterly vindication of the decisions and the-learning of the courts of New York.
He closes that opinion by saying,
"I deny the writ of habefs corpus prayed.for, because:" 1. If granted, and a return was made admittingthe facts stated in
the petition, I should discharge t fe infant on the ground that this
court cannot exercise the common law functions of parens patria
and has no commonlaw juris.diction over the matter.
"2. Because the court has not judicial cognizance of the matter
by virtue of 'any statute of the United States.

JANUARY TEA_&M, -1847.

105

Barry v. Mercein et al.

"3. If such jurisdiction is to be implied, that then the decision of
the Couit of Errors of New York supplies the rule of law or furnishes the highest evidence of the common law rule which is to be the
rule of decision in,the case.
"4. Because by that rule the father is not entitled on the case
made by this petition to take this child out of the custody of its
mother."
It is this decision which the plaintiff in error seeks to reverse,
and on 'this motion to grant this writ of error it is resvectfully submitted, 1. That this is not such a final judgment as is contemplated by
the statute of 1789, which a writ of error may. be brought to reverse.
2. That there is no pecuniary value to the subject in controversy, nor- any way in which pecuniary value can be -ascertained so
as to allow a court of error to bring up the matter to this court from
the Circuit Court.
3. That the application was to the discretion of the Circuit Court,
end this court will never interfere to control-the discretion of the inferior court. The parties v*ho are proceeded against are the wife
and mother of plaintiff in error. .The plaintiff in error cannot proceed against his wife in this court, her ddmicil in the eye of the law
being the same as her husband's.
5. The Circuit 'Court possess no other or different powers in
relation to habeas corpus under the act, than are possessed by
this court, and this court have already passed upon ths case by
refusing to grant the writ when application was made upon'the same
state of facts directly'to this court. ' This court have no jurisdidtion over the subject-matter, and the writ of error should be quashed for want of jurisdiction.
I. This is not sudh a final judgment as is contemplated by the
statute.
The language of the statute, § 22, is, that final decrees and'
judgments in civil actions in a District Court, where the matter in
dispute exceeds the sum or value of fifty dollars exclusive of costs,
may be regxamined and rendered or affirmed in a Circuit Court
holden in the same district updn a writ %oferror whereto shall be an:nexed anid returned therewith at the day and place thereby mentioned an authenticated transcript of the record, asgignment of errors,
prayer for reversal, citation, &c.
"And upon a like process "( that is, writ of error, record, &c.),
may final judgments, and decrees in civil actions, and suits in equity
in a .Circuit Court, brought there by original process or removed
thir6 from State courts, or by appeal from District Cloirts, &c.,
-and "when the matter in dispute exceeds the.sum or value of two
thousand dollars," &c., be regxamined and reversed-or affirmed by
the Supreme Court.

106

SIIPREME. COURT.
Barry v. Merc iu et al.

Now it is respectfully but confidentlytsubmitted to this court that
the decision of the Circuit Court in this matter, upon an ex parte
application and where no summons or other process was served upon
the defendants in err6r, or- either-of them, is not a final judgment in
a civil action, -or a final decree in a suit in equity.
It is stated that the petition was filed; but it was not served, nor
was any original process issued or served ; there were, therefore,
no parties before the court, there was no action in 'personam or in
rem, there cannot well be an action at law or a suit in equity where
there are no parties before the, court.
The act of March 3d, 1803, uses the ,expression, "1cases in
equity," but they are confined to cases of admiralty and 'maritime
jurisdiction, and tode carried up to the Supreme Court by appeal.
Judge' Betts says, in this case, A procedure by habeas corpus
can in no legal sense be regarded as a suit or controversy -between
private parties."
Holmes v.Jennison et al., 14 Peters, 540, refused to dischargeunder habeas corpus. If a suit not a suit between
private parties.
2. There is no pecuniary value to the subject in controversy,
nor any way in which pecuniary value can be astertained. Nov by
the twenty-second section of the judiciary act, to which I have referied, a writ of error to this court does not lie unless the matter in
controversy, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of two thousafid
dollars. Now, though in someases, the-court have allowed testimony of value to be given by affidavits or vivd voce, -when the
demand is not for money, yet this appears to have been done only"
in cases where real value could be readily fixed i amd it has allowed.
the value of' an office or its emoluments to be)thus established.
I do not see how the value is to be ascertained in this case;
and, indeed, it does not seem to be one- of the actions at law or
suits in equity contemplated by the act to reverse the judgment or
decree in-Aich writs'of error may be brought.
In the case of Columbian Insurance Co. v.Wheelwright and others, 7 Wheaton, 534, a writ of error. was held to lie for tis court
to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, upon a judg-'
ment bverruling a peremptory mandamus. But it tn quashed on
account of the matter in controversy not being of the valu*e of one
.thousand dollars, though in that case the value of the office'was allowed to be appraised. But the laftguage of the act of February 27,
1801, is different from that of the act of 1789.
In the act of 1801; writs of error may he brought to reverse or
affirm-final judgments, orders, or decrees in said Circuit Court.
But, as in the act of 1789, final judgments in civil abtions and suits
inequity. Act of !i7 February, 1801, § 8 (2.Stat. at Large,106),
contains the provision'in relaion to writs of errdr to Circuit. Court
for the District of Columbia.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

107

Barry v. Me'rcein et al.

3. The applicatkin was to the-discretion of the Circuit Court,
and this court will not interfere to control the discretion of an in-,
ferior court.
It has been repeatedly decided in this court that the exercise of
the discretion of the court below in refusing or granting amendments of pleadings on motions for new trials, and refusing to reinstate cases after nonsuit, affords no ground for writ of error. See
United States v. Buford, 3 Peters; 31 ;"United States v. Evans,
5 Cranch, 280 ; Maryland Insurance Co v. Hodgton, 6 Cranch,
206.
See also the case of Boyle rP.,Zacharie, 6 Peters, 657, where
the object of the writ of error was to reverse the decision of the
Circuit Court in refusing to quash a -writ of venditioni exponas, and
where it was held not-to lie. In that case, Mr. Justice Story
said, -"
A very strong case illustrating the general doctrine is, that
error will not lie., to the refusal of a court to grant a peremptory
mandamus upon a return made to a prior mandamus which the court
allowed as sufficient."
The case before the court is one of a similar character, and resting equally in the sound discretion of the Circuit Court.
4. The plaintiff in error cannot proceed in this court against his
wife ; her domicil being in law the same as his. If the proceeding
in the Circuit Court can be annulled as an action at law or a suit in
equity, then clearly the plaintiff in error could not carry on such
action or suit in any of the courts of the United States against his
wife, as one of the defendants.
- 5. Tho Circuit Court possesses no other or different power than
this court in relation to a writ of 'habeas corpus, and this court have
already passed upon this case and refused the writ for want of jurisdiction. The writ of error should therefore be quashed for want
of jurisdiction.
The language of the fourteenth section is, " that all the before mentioned courts of the United States shall have power to issue writs of
scire facids, habeas corpus," &c. The power of this court to issue
writs of habeas corpushasnever been doubted by the court and has repeatedly been exercised ; but its power to issue a writ in the present case has been doubted and the writ refused. The court, after
hearing tha plaintiff in error on original application to this ourt on
thd same state of facts as were presented to the Circuit, Couit, refused to grant the writ. It is respectfully submitted that the application to a- Circuit Court has in no respect changed the aspect of
the matter, and if this court had no jurisdiction over the subjectmatter when the original petition wa presented, neither can it have
jurisdiction now, when the subject comes up for its decisionfrom the
judgment of an inferior court.
In the case of Ex parte Barry, 2 Howard, 65, Mr. Justipe
Story says -"
It is plain, therefore, that this court has no original

108

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mercein et al.

jurisdiction to entertain the present petion, and .we cannot issue
any writ of habeas corpus, except when it is necessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction, original or appellate, given fo it bythe constitution and laws of the United States."
Is it not equally. plain that the Circuit Court can issue no writ of
hdbeas corpus, except when it is necessary for the exercise of its
jurisdiction, original or appellate, given to it by the constitution and
laws of the United States ? Was this habeas corpus necessary to
the exercise of th6 jurisdiction of the Circuit Court ? True, the
eleventh secti6a of the judicial act gives the Circuit Court original
cognizance with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a
eivil nature at comton law or in equity.
But "a procedure by habeas corpus (says Judge Betts) can in
no legal'sense be regarded as a suit or controversy between private
parties. "It is an inqisition by 'the government, at the suggestion
and instance of an individual, most probably, but still in the name
and capacity of sovereign, to ascertain whether the infant in this case
is wrongfully detained, and in a way conducing to its prejudice."
"It has bden well and often remarked, that the power of the courts
of the United.States is.given to them by express and written grant ;
and where they exercise the power of issuing'writs of habeas corwpus,
they find their authority in " thus it is written." They derive no
jurisdiction from the common law. The grand inquisition of the
sovereignty of the United States is not to be invoked unless in cases
where the written law gives thepower to invbke it. Certainly, this
is not one of the cases. -It is a case for the grand inquisition of the
-State of New York. That grand inquest has repeatedly decided
this matter.
"1What question (says Judge Betts in this same opinion) can be
regarded as in principle more local or intro-territorial than those
Which pertain to the domestic institutions of a State, .7-the social
and domestic relations of its citizens ? Or, what cculd probably be
less within the meaning of Congress than that, in regard to these
interesting matters, the courts of the United States should be empo'vered to introduce rules or principles, because found in the ancient common law, which should trample down and abrogate the
policy and cherished usages of a State, authentidated and sanctified
as a part of her laws by the judgment of her highest tribunals."
I submit this question of jurisdiction, with entire confidence3 to
this court. I know its practice has been in conformity with the
language of its late eminent chief justice.
"We must tread the direct and narrow path prescribed for us.
As this court has never grasped at ungranted jurisdiction, so it
never will, we trust, shrink frdm that which is cofiferred upon it."
I submit, therefore,, with great deference, the motion that this
writ of error should be quashed, as irregular, and for want of jurisdiction.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

109

Barry -v. Mercein et al.

• ir. Barry, in opposition to the motion, made the following
points, which he maintained at grear~ngth.
1. The record in the above cause presents the case of a "final
judgment" by the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New
York in a "suit," within the meaning of the twenty-second section
of the judiciary act of 1789 ;. and the plaintiff in error is therefore
entitled to have.such judgmenf reexamined in this court by writ of
error, provided the 6ourt below had jurisdiction of the case, authority to issue the writ of habeas corpus-ad subjiciendum, and the
record presents a prima fade case for the award of such writ.
United States Laws, Statutes at Large, 81 ; Holmes v. Jennison,
14 Peters, 540 ; Weston et al. v. City Council of Charleston,
2 Peters, 449 ; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 614 ; Sto.
Oom. Abr. 608 ; Columbian Ins. Co. v. Wheelwright and others,
7 Wheat. 534; Co. Litt. 288,,b
2. The court below had jurisdiction of -this case, and authority
to. issue the writ of habeas corpuw under the Constitution, at the
common law, by impticatipn,--and by statute; and consequently
committed error in deciding that it had not such jurisdiction and
authority. The petition on the record presents a primafacie case
for the award of such writ, and the court below committed error in
denying it.to the plaintiff in error, to whom it belonged as a writ of
right by the "1law of the land ;" his title resting, in debito justitiW," on probable cause shown.by afidavit; 36 Edw. 3, cap. 9;
42 Edw. 3 ; 8 Henry 4 ; 8.Henry 6 ; 28 Edw. 1 ; 3-Car. 1.;
16 Car. l, cap. 10; 31 Car. 2; Bac. Abr. Title Hab. Corp.;
Greenhill's cas6, 4 Adolph. & Ellis, Eng. Com. Law Rep. 624;
United States v. Green, 3 Mason, 482; Rex v. Winton, 5 D. &
E. 89; Rex v. Isley, 5 Adolph. & Ellis, 441 ; Constitution United
States ; Yates's case, 6 Johns. 422,423 ; Bollman & Swartwout,
4 Cranch, 75; Ex parte Randolph, 2 Biock. C. C. R. 447;
3 B1. Com. 132; 3 Bac.. Abr. 421 ; Judiciary Act, 1789,
§ 14 ; United States Stat., 2 Mar., 1831, § 38 ; Kearney's
case, 7 Wheat. 38; Crosby's case, 3 Wilson, 172; 1 Kent's
Com. 301 ; Wood's case, 3 Wilson; 3 Bac. Abr. (3) ; In re
Pearson, 4 Moore, 366 ; MIag. Char., cap. 29 ; United States v.
Bainbridge, 1 Mason, 71 ; 1 Kent's Com. -220 ; United States
Supreme Court, Ex parte Barry, 2 How. 65 ; 19 Wendell, 16,
and cases cited ; Vernon v. Verpon, MS. case, New York Chancery, 11 th June, 1839 ; Ahrenfeldt's case, Ch. New York, July,
1840; Commonwealth v. Briggs, 16 Pick. 204 ; In re Mitchell,
Charlton's Rep. 489; State of South Carolina v. Nelson, MS.
case, 1840 ; Prather's case, 4 Dess. 33 ; 25 Wendell, 72, 73 ;
Gov. Seward's Mess. to Senate, Albany, 20th March, 1840 ; 5
East, 221 ; 12 Vesey, 492; 2 Ru!ell, 1 ; Review of D'Hauteville's case, 30 ; 2 and 3 Victoria; ca'p. 54 ; 1I Vesey, 531";
People v. Mercein, 3 Hill, 399 ; Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 449.
VOL. V.

10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mereein et al.

3. The court below, if it 'had jurisdiction by implication, committed error in assuming that the court for the correction of errors,
by its decisions on the case of the plaintiff on' two former writs of
habeas corjus, in 1840 and 1842, had either "supplied the rule of
law," or given "evidence of the common law rule" which was to be
the rule of decision in:the, cake on this record, two years -after, -a
case entirely de novo, - in 1844. And the court below committed
further error in deciding, that by such assumed rule of law or evi,
dence of the common layi rule, the plaintiff in this cause was not'
entitled, on the-case made by him, to the custody of his child, -,
the same being a prejudication on the merits, - no argumehit being
had before the court in respect of either such assumed rule, or the
evidence thereof, or bn the merits. No such rule existed in point
of fact, and consequently nor evidence thereof could exist; decision
,Supreme Court New York, 1842, 3 Hill, 399 ; MS. Opinion,
Chan. New York, April, 1844.
4. The plaintiff in error being of.legeance to the crown of Digland, his child, though born in the United States during its father's
temporary residence therein, - twenty-two months. and. twenty
days, - notwithstanding its mother be an American citizen, is not a
citizen of the United States. It is incapacitated by.'its infancy
from making any present election, follows the legeance of its father,
partus sequiturpatremn, and is a British subject. The fathei being
domiciled and resident within the dominions of her Britannic Majesy, such is also the proper and rightful domicil of his wife and child,
and he has a legal right to remove them thither. The child being
detained from the father, its natural guardian and protector, without
authority of law, the writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum is his
apvropriate legal remedy for, its restoration to him from its present
illegal detentin and restrnint ; Constitution United States, art. a,
§ 2 ;, Judiciary Act, .1789, § I I; Inglis v. Trustees Sail. Snug.
Harb., 3 Peters, 99;, 7 Anne, cap. 5; 4 Geo. 3, cap. 21;
Warrpnder v. Warrender, 2 Clar. & Fin., Ap. Ca. 523 ; 8tory's
Confl. Laws, 30, 36, 43;74, 160; Sheiford on Marriage,.Ferg.

Rep. 397, 398.
5. If the laws of the proper domicil of the plaintiff (ad by necessary consequence that of his family), applicable 'to the case. on the
record, be not repugnant to the laws or policy of this country, and'
-this be proved to the court, the case is one proper for the exercise
of the comity of the American nation, - not of the court, but of
the nation ; and the court below will extend that comity to the
plaintiff, not only by awarding him the writ of habeas corpus ad.
apbjip'iesdum, -the appropriate legal remedy sought, but also by de-,
ciding the case on its merits, at the hearing, agreeably to the law of
his domicil; In re Wilkes, 1 Ken. 279; Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, Con. Rep. United States, -577 ; Warrdnder v. Warrender, Z Clbr. &Fin. Par. Rep. 529; 9" Bligh.,-N: S. 110";

JANUARY
Barry v.

TERM,- 1847.

111

Mfercein et al.

Bill for Protection of Minors, Senate of New York,- 1840; Goy'.
Seward's Message to Senate, 20th March, 1840.

JIr.Rockwell, for the motion to dismiss, in reply and conclusion.
1. The writ of habeas corpus is not issued as a matter of course,
upon the application, but is addressed to the discretion of the court,
and may be refused if upon the application itself it appears that, if.
admitted to be true, the applicant is not entitled to relief. 2 BI.
Com. 132, 133, n. (16) ; 3 Bulstr. 27 ; 2 Roll. Rep.. 138.
King v. Hobhouse, 2. Chitty, K. B. Rep. 207, marg. note.
"1The writ'of habeas corpus, whether at common law or- unaer the
3 Car. 2, does not issue as a matter of course. in the frst instance, upon application, but must be grounded on affidavit, upon
which the court are to exercise their discretion whether the suit
shall issue or not."
See also The Spanish Sailors, 2 Sir W. Blackstone, 1324.
King v. Barnard Schiever, 2 Burr. 765. -Habeas corpus for a
prisoner of war taken on board an enemy's prize-ship denied in the
first instance.
Ex parte Kearney, I Wheat. 38. - In this case the application
was ex parte, and in the first instance denied by the court, and in
subsequent cases.
Commonwealth v. Robinson, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 353. - The
court declared it a matter of discretion whether to grant or iefuse
a writ of habeas corpus to discharge an -apprentice from military
service on application of the master.
Ex parte Tobias Watkins, 3 Peters, 193. - Petition denied in
the first instance.
2. A writ of error does not lie to review te decision of a court,
except upon final judgment, and the order of a court, denying in the
first instance an ex parte application for a writ of ihqbeas corpus,
cannot be reviewed by writ of error.
The People v. President of Brooklyn, 13 Wend. 130, Court
of Errors fandamus, marg. note..-"1 A writ of error does not
ie upon the refusal of the Supreme Court to grant a peremptory
mandamus when application is made by motion. It only lies for the
relator when judgment is pronounced after issue joined upon plea
or demurrer interposed upon the coming in of the return of the alternative mandamus."
Boyle v. Zacharie et al., 5 Peters, 648, marg. note. - "A'writ
of error will not lie to a Circuit Court of the United.. States,'to revise its decision in refusing to grant a writ of.venditioni exponas, issued on a judgment obtainedin that court."
Per Story, J. (p. 657.) -"
A very strong case, illustrating
the general doctrine, is, that error will not lie to the refusal of.a
court to grant a peremptory mandamus upon a return made to a prior
mandamus which the court allowed as sufficient." 3 Bro. Parl.
Cas'. 505.
-

112

SUPREME COURT.
Bearry v.

Ierre~in et &L

The Dean and Chapter of, Dublinv. King, 1 Bro. PhrL Cas,
73.- Application to' the King's Bench for mandamus to admii
Robert Dugdale to his office as clerk, upon which there was an
award of a peremptory mandamus ; held writ of error not to le,
there being n ' plta and judgment..
Weiton v. City Council' of Charleston, 2.Peters, 449.
Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters, 540..-" I do not intend to ex.amine the questiod whether proceeding upon' a °habeas corpus is a
suit,' within the meaning of the .twenty-fifth section ; or whether
writ of error will
t review proceedings upon a habeas "corpus,
Wie
although the case on -these points is" not free from doubts," &c.
Per Thompson, J., 550 ; Judge' Bald.win's opinion, 622, 625.
Columbian InsuranceCo. v. Wh~elwnrght, 7 Wheat. 534. Mandamus valuation of office.
IH. The Circuit Court had no jurisk'ction of the subject i tter.
1. That court derives all its jurisdiction from the constitution of
the United States and the acts of C6ngresa, and is strictly confined
to the acts of Congress conferring jurisdiction, and defining ther
powers of the court.
'1 Kent's Com. 294. - "With judicial power, it may be generally
observed, as the Supreme Court declared in the, case of Turner v,
Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 8, that the disposal of the judicial
power, except in. a few §pecified. cases, belongs to Congress;
and the courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in every case to which
the judicial power e~ten-ds, without the interventio of Congress
who are not bound to enlarge the jurisdictionof the federal courts
to every subject which the coastitution might Warrant;?'
McIntyre v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504, to the same effect ; United
States v. More, 3 Cranch; 159 ; 6 Cranch, 305 ; 3 Da. 321;
1 Cranch, 212.
,Mr. Barry. The Circuit Court must enlerge their jurisdiction,,
as the Circuif Court has the residuum of authority inherent, and incidental powers at common law as a.high court .of record.
2. The only power 'conferred on, the Circuit Court is in the
judicial act of 1789: § 14. "1That all the beforementioned courts of. the United
States shall have power tossUe writs of scirefacias,habeas corpus, and all ther writs'not specially provided for by statute, whi.h
may be necessary for the exercise of their .respeptive jurisdictions,
and agreeable t) the principles'and usages of'law.
"And that either-of them, as well-as judges of the District Courtsy
shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus, for the purpose
of inquiring into the. cause of cohmnitme.
"Provided, that wril of habeas corpus shall in no. case extend
to prisoneri in jail, unless *hef they are in custody under or by or-.
der of the authority of the United States, or are committed for tril
before some court of the same, or arb necessary to be brought into
court to testify."

JANUARY TERM,
Barry v.

1847.

113

Mfercein ert al.-

1. This statute paovides that" all the beforementioned courts,"
&c., referring to the Supreme, Circuit, and District Courts,
and 'conferring like powers on all. The original jurisdiction of
all these courts, and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme and
Circuit Courts had been all defined. The court derives all its
power from this statute, and the limitations of it are to be precisely
followed, expressio unius exclusio est alteriuts.
Ex parte Ballard ; Ex' parte Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, per
Mar.hall, Ch. J., 93. -" Courts which originate in the common
law possess a jurisdiction which must be regulated by the common
law, but the courts which are created by written law, .and whose
jurisdiction is defined by written law, cannot transcend their jurisdiction-."
"The power to award the writ by any of the courts of the United
States must be given by written law."
Page 95. - "If the power be denied to this court, it is denied
to every other court of the United States."
Ex parte Tobias Watldns, 3 Peters, 193; by Marshall, Ch.
J., p. 201. -"
The judicial actlauthorizes this court, and all the
courts of the United States, and the judges thereof, to issue the writ
for the purpose of inquiring into the cause of commitment."
Ex parte Barry, 2 HowarU, 65, marg. note. .---" The original
jurisdiction of this court does not extend to the case of a petition by
a private individual for a habeas corpus to bring up the body of his
infant daughter, alleged to be unlawfully obtained from him."
Why not ? If not conferred on the Supreme Cout it is not
conferred on the Circuit or District Courts by this statute.
2. The object of this section was not to confer upon any of these
courts a general authority to issue this writ. It was designed as
auxiliary, - "Which may be necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions.::
The scirefacias is a writ of execution, in all cases founded upon
a record, and is a necessary incidental power to the exercise of the
jurisdiction 'of any court. So of habeas corptus, without -which
power the court would not be able even to protect suitors or witnesses attending court from a writ, &c., &c.
3. That part of the section conferring the power upon the judges
in vacation to issue the writ " for the purpose of. inquiring into the
cause of commitment," as does the proviso, indicates that reference
was only had to confinement under a United States process, or
"under cojor of authority of the United States."
31 Car. 1, ch. 2, provides, - ".That on complaint and requdst
in wiriting by or on behalf of 'any person* committed and charged
with any crime, (unless," &c.), " the chancellor, &c., shall award a
writ of habeas corpus," &c.
The powers of the section had doubtless reference to the English
statute, and to confer a limited and 33ot general authority.
10*
-

114

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mercein et al.

The decisions of the United States courts in relation to writs of
mandamus are ent-rely analogous. They are both prerogative writs,
and the defining and limiting the power to issue writs of habeas corpus by statute restricts them more than the others.
1 Kent's Com. 294. -- " It has been decided that Congress has
not delegated the exercise of judicial power to the Circuit Court but
in certain specified casets. The eleventh section of the judicial act
of 1789, giving jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, has not covered the
whole ground of the -constitution, and these courts cannot, for instance, issue a mandamus but in those cases in which it may be
necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction."
MeIntire v. Wood, 7 Craneh, 504 ; McClurg v. Silliman, 6
Wheaton, 598 ; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524 -618.
If this is considered one of " the other writs not specified by
statute" (§ 14, judiciary act), the term is very properly used, "necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions," giving a judicial construction to the meaning of the latter term.
2Ex parte Colura, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 232, marg. note. -"
The
courts of the United States and the justices thereof are only authorized to issue writs of habeas corpus to prisoners in jail under color
of the authority of the United States, or committed by courts of the
United States, or required to testify in a case depending ifn a court
of the United States."
" The jurisdiction of the courts of th'e United States is limited;
and the inferior courts can ex ercise it only in cases in which it is
conferred by act of Congress."
United States v. French, 1 Gallison, 1, marg. .note.- " The
Circuit Court has no authority to issue a habeas corpus for the purpose of surrendering a principal in discharge of his bail, when the
principal is confined in jail merely under process of a State court."
Per curiam. "We have no authority in this care to issue a habeas
corpus. The authority given by the judicial act f 1789, chap. 20,
§ 14, is confined to cases where the party is in custody under color
of'process under authority of the United States; or is committed for
trial before some court of the United States, or is necessary to be
brought into court to testify."
N. B. The party in this case was confined under a penal law of
Congress (2 Statutes at Large, 506), in which State courts have,
by repeated decisions, no jurisdiction.
In all the following cases habeas corpus was issued, where the
party was confined under color of process of the United States,
and although any other exercise of the power 'was not in express
terms denied, yet in a number of them the court proceed upon the
assumption of its being so limited, and in no instance form a contrary opinion. Ex parte Wilson, 6 Cranch, 52 ; E1x parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 38 ; Ex parte Randolph, 2 Brock. 476, 477 ; 3
Dall. 17 ; 4 Dall. 412 ; 3 Cranch, 447 ; 4 Cranch, 75 ; 3 Peters,

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

115

Barry v. Mercein at al.

201 ; 9 Peters, 704 ; 1 Mason, 71 ; 2 Brock. .6, 447 ; 1 Wash.
277. The case in 3 Mason, 482, of United States v. Green, the
only case where.granted and point not then raised.
3. Although in numerous decisions infants are doubtless under
the control of courts of law as to their custody, and courts having
jurisdiction may issue writs of habeas corpus, yet the courts, representing the sovereign power of the State, adopt the course which
they may deem for the benefit of the child at their discretion. It is
an extension of the original purposes of the writ, and not contemplated by the powers of the judicial act, nor consistent with the limited authority of the general government.
Ld. Chan.
De Manneville v. De Manneville, 10 Ves. 52 -66,
in conclusion, p. 66. - 1 I must either give the child to the father,
when I know not what he proposes to do if it remain with him ; or. to
the mother, to which upon some principles there is great objection ;
or I must take some middle course ; and I shall take care that the
intercourse of both father and mother with the child, so far as is
consistent with its happiness, shall be unrestrained." Ordered that
the child should not be removed out of jurisdiction.
Nor will this rule be
King v. Grenhil], 4 Adol. & Ellis, 624. departed from on the ground that the father has formed an adulterous connection, which still continues, if it appear that he has
never brought the adulteress to his house, or into contact with his
children, and does not intend to do so." Marg. note.
The general goveinment- is one of defihed and limited powers.
It is the design of the constitution that the judicial should be coextensive with the legislative authority, but not to exceed it.
These powers are compaatively free and well defined, and are
exceptions to the authority residing in the State, and subject
to their judicial authority. The great mass of authority remains
in the State , and is governed by and dependent upon State authority.
All questions .arising out of the domestic relations are peculiarly
and appropriately within the province of the State governments; ahd
the court will be slow in countenancing any principle, or giving any
construction of the constitution and laws that shall decree to itself
this branch of local authority.
In relation to husband and wife, parent and child, the,various and
diversified and vexed questions that arise concering the custody of
children, the court will not be anxious by any doubtful construction
to enlarge their jurisdiction. The court exercising that jurisdiction
cannot dispose of the various questions involved, as in ordinary
questions of pecuniary value, by a judgment and execution. They
must enter the nursery and inquire as to the character and habits of
the respective parents, - the wishes of the child, - and make such
orders from time to time as may be required by the ever changing
circumstances of all the parties concerned.. What pbrtion of these
"

116

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mercein et al.

questions would this court have to take charge of, and what new
set of rules or officers for these wards of the court ?
. If the rit of error is sustained, and the case remanded, and the
Circuit Court ordered to issue the writ, it will be the duty of the
Circuit Court to make such orders as will be for the benefit of the
child, andvary them from time to time.. Can these be revieved by
this court ?
This proceeding is realy a question as to the custody of an infant
child, and of guardianship on the part of the courts of the United
States ; and although called habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, it is so
by fiction of law. It- is not a question of the personal liberty of
the child, but of its custody and nurture. It is not in substance at
all that great writ of English or American liberty, but a great extension, if not entire perversion, of its object.
.faster and Servant. - Are the relative rights and duties of the
master and servant a matter of local or national jurisdiction ?
Suppose a servant from Kentucky flies to Ohio. His master
pursues him and takes'him. He is ordered to bring his writ of habeas
corpus before the Circuit Court. The court denies the application.
He brings his writ of error to this court. Has the court jurisdiction ? Will it order the Circuit Court to issue the writ ? If not,
why not ?
If in obedience to the order the Circuit Court issues the writ,
and refuses to discharge the person, a writ of error lies to this court.
Petition for Divorce. - It is not embraced n the tenth section
of the judicial act of 1789.
1. The power of the court to issue the writ at all is given by
statute, in the fourteenth section, and must be limited to the purposes, and by the restrictions in the act.
2. It is not a " suit of a civil nature at common law or in
equity, when the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of

$500."

3. The phraseology in the twenty-fifth section is different, - "in
ny suit." The object is different, to have the power of the
Vited States, in relation to treaties, constitution, laws, or authority
of United States. The term is used in its most general sense, civil, criminal,, equity, and all others. The object is to control the
decisions of State courts on national questions. See Holmes v.
Jennison, 14 Peters, 2.
III. The court has not jurisdiction of the parties. One of the
defendants in error, MIrs. Barry, has no domicil in the -United
States, but follows that of her husband.
1. In order to give the court jurisdiction all the defendants must
be liable to be sued before the United States court. 1 Kent,
Com. 324 ; Strawbridge- v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267.
. 2. "A married woman follows the -domicil. of her husband.
This results from the general principle, fbat, a person who is under

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

117

Barry v. Mercein et al.

the .power and authority of another possesses no right to choose a
domicil." Story on Conflict of Laws, 45, and authorities there
cited.
Greene v. Greene, 11 Pick. 410.-" The domicil'of the wife
follows that of the husband." 14 Pick. 181.
So in settlement cases.-" A wife and minor child can have
no settlement separate from the husband and father.". Shirley v.
Watertown; Sears v. City Qf Boston, 1 Met. 242, absent a number
of years, &c. The petitioner himself declares (p. 4), " That the
said Eiza Ann, by her intermarriage with your petitioner, became a
denizen of the British empire, and entitled to inherit within the said
realm as though she were a British subject. All the privileges, advantages, and immunities, being supervenient upon those of her
domnicilium originis as "n American citizen."
If so, can any thing
but a divorce.or death deprive her of these rights.? He speaks of
her going "to her own proper home at Liverpool"; and, p. 6, that
his wife should "return to her oivn proper home and duties."
3. The Supreme-Court have their appellate jurisdiction only in
those cases in which it is affirmatively given by the acts of Congress, and no such appellate jurisdiction is given in this case.
Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 321 ; Clarke v. Bazadone, 1 Cranch,
212; Court of United States Territory northwest of the Ohio,
United States v. More,. 3 Cranch, 159, criminal case from Cirenit Court of District of Columbia; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat.
38. No appeal from Circuit Court in criminal cases.
IV. The Supreme Court has not jurisdiction, as the matter in
dispute does not amount to $ 2,000. Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Pet.
634. "In cases where the demand is not for money, and the
nature of the action does not require the value of the thing demanded to be stated in the declaration, the practice'of this court and of
the courts of the United States has "been to allow the value to be
given in evidence."
In this case evidence was offered in the court below between
Martha Bradstreet and Apollos Cooper, a writ of right of the value
of the land in dispute; but that value not appearing on the record
the court dismissed the proceedings. , Mandamus issued to reinstate
the case.
Per Marshall, C. J., p. 647. Every partyhas a right to the
jgdgment of this court in a stit brought. by him iif one of the inferior courts of the United States, provided the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum. or value of two thousand dollars.
I IIn cases where the demand is not for money, and the nature of
the action does not require the value of the thing demanded to be
stated in the declaration, the practice of this court and of the courts
of the United States is to allow the value to be given in evidence.
In pursuance of this practice, the demandant in the '.rdits dismissed

by order of the judge of the District Court had a right t&"give the

118

SUPREME COURT.
Barry v. Mercein et al.

value of the property- demanded in evidence at or before the trial of
the cause,"- &c.
United Statbs v. Mfore, 3 Cranch, 172, per Marshall, C. J.,
p. 172. - "But as the jurisdiction of the court has been described, it has been regulated by Congress, and an affirmativ6
description of its powers must be understood as a regulation
under the constitution, prohibiting the exercise of other powers
than those described." " Thus the appellate jurisdiction of this
court from the judgments of the Circuit Court is described
affirmatively ; no restrictive words are used. Yet it has never been
supposed that a decision of a Circuit Court could be reviewed, unless the matter in dispute should exceed the value of two thousand
dollars. There are no words in the act restraining the Supreme
Court from taking cognizance of causes under that sum ; their jurisdiction is ol7 limited by the legislative declaration, that they may
reExamine the decisions of the Circuit Court when the matter in
dispute exceeds the value of two thousand dollars." The words
" matter in dispute" seem appropriated to civil cases, when the
subject in contest has a value beyond the sum mentioned in the act.
Wilson v. Daniel, 3 iDall. 401. -"
The verdict or judgment
does not ascertain the value of the matter in. dispute," &c.
All the judges, in giving their opinions, proceed upon the ground
that the case must be one of pecuniary value.
United States v. Brig Union, 4 Cranch, 216, marg. note. - "It
is incumbent on the plaintiff in -error to show that this court has
jurisdiction of the cause."
"This court will permit vtva voce
testimony to be given of the value of the matter in dispute."
Gordon V. Ogden, 3 Peters, 33. The plaintiff claimed two
thousand dollars ; had judgment for less ; writ of error by defendant
below; court held no jurisdiction; aliter where writ in such case
is by plaintiff below; action for violating a patent.
Ritchie v. Mauro & Forrest. 2 Peters, 244, ler Marshall,
C. J. of Supreme Court, p. 244.-" In'the present cage the
majority of the court are of opinion that the court has. no jurisdiction of the case ; the value in controversy not being sufficient to
entitle the party by law to claim an appeal. The value is not the
value of the minor's estate, but the value of the office of guardian.
The present is a controversy merely between persons claiming
adversely as guardians, havilig no distinct interest of their own. The
office of guardian is of no value, except so far as it affords a compensation for labor and services, thereafter to be earned."
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opiniofi of the court.
This casp is brought up by writ of error to the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York.
It appears from the record that the plaintiff in error is a subject
of the queen of Great Btitain, and resides in Liverpool, Nova Sco-

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

119

Barry v. Mercein et al. 9

In April, 1835, he intermarr'ed with Eliza Ann Barry, "one of
the defendants in error, who is the daughter of the late Thomas B.
Mercein, of the city of New York ; and upon some unfortunate disagreement between the plaintiff in error and his wife, a separation
took place in the year 1838, and they have ever since livedapart ;
she residing in New York, and he at Liverpool. They have two
children, a son and a daughter. The son is with his father'; and
the daughter, now about ten years of age, is with her mother.
The plaintiff in error filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, at April
term, 1844, stating that his wife had separated from him without any
justifiable cause and refused to return, 'and unlawfully detained and
kept fron'him his daughter ; that she was harboured, countenanced,
and encoiiraged in these unlawful proceedings by her mother, Mary
Mercein, the other defendant in error ; and prayed that the writ of
habeas corpus ad subjiciendum might issue, commanding the said
Mary Mercein and Eliza Ann Barry to have the body of his daughter, Mary Mercein Barry, by them imprisoned and detained, with:
the time and cause of such imprisonment or detention, before the
Circuit Court to do and receive what shotld then and there be considered of the said Mary Mercein Barry. The petition was supported by the usual affidavits' and proofs. The case cime onto
be heard in the Circuit Court, and it was then ordered and adjudged
by the court that the petition be disallowed, and the writ of habeas
corpus denied. It is up..a this judgment that the writ of error is
brought:
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ of error for the want
of jurisdiction in this court. In the argument upon this motion,
the power.of the Circuit Court to award ihe writ of habeas corpus,
in a case' like this, has also been very fully discussed at the bar.
But this question is ,not before us, unless we have power by writ of
error to regxamine the judgment given by the Circuit Court, and
to affirn or reverse it, as we-may find itto be correct or otherwise.
And' the question therefore to be first decided is, whether a writ of
error will lie upon th' jddgment of the Circuit Court in this case
refusifig to grant the writ of habeas corpus. It is an important
qustion ; deeply interesting to-the parties concerned,; and we have
given to it a full and mature consideradon.
By the constitution of the United States, the Suprenie Court
possesses no appellate power in any case, ufiless conferred upon it by'
act of Congress ; nor can it, when conferred be exercised in any
other form, or by any other mode of proceeding than that which
the law prescribes.
The act of 1789, ch. 20, § 22, provides that final judgments
and decrees in civil actions and suits in equity in a Circuit Court,
when the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of two. thousand dollars; exclusive of costs,"may be refxamined and reversed or
tia.

120

SUPREM

COURT.

Barry v. Mercein et aL..

affirmed in the Supreme Court. And it is by this law only-that we
are authorized to re~xamine any judgment in a Circuit Court by
writ of error.
Before we speak more particularly of the construction of this
section, it may be proper to notice the difference betweei the provisions contained in it, and thoseof the twenty-fifth section, in the same
act of Congress, which gives the appellate power over the judgments
of the State courts. In the latter case, the right to.reexanine is
not made to depend on the money value of the thing in controversy, but
upon the character of the right in dispute, and the judgment which the
State court has pronounced upon it ; and it is altogether immaterial
whether the right in controversy can or cannot be measured by a
money standard.
But in the twenty-second section, which is the .one now under
consideration, the provision is otherwise; and in order to give this
court jurisdiction to 'refxamine the judgment of a Circuit Court of
the United States, the judgment or decree must not only be a final
one, in a civil action or suit in equity, but the matter in dispute
must exceed the sum or value of two -thousand dollars, exclusive of
costs. And in order, therefore, to give us appellate power un,der this section, the matter in dispute must be mondy, 'or some
right, the value of Which, in money, can be calculated and ascertained.
In the case before 'us, the controversy is between the father and
mother of an infant daughter. They are living separate from each
other, and each claiming the right to the custody, care, and society.
of their child. This is the matter in dispute. *And it is evidently
utterly incapable of being reduced to any pecuniary standard of
.value, as.it rises superior to money considrration,.
The question .for this court to decide, is, whether a controversy
of this character can, by a fair and reasonable construction,' be. regarded as within the provisions of the twenty-second section of the
act of 1789. Is it one of those cases in which we are authorized
to regxamnine the decision of a Circuit Court of the United States,
and affirm'or reverse ,its judgment ? We think not. Thd words
of the act of Congress are plain and unambiguous. -They give .the
right of revision in those cases only where the rights of property are
concerned, and where the matter in dispute has a known and certain
value, which can be proved and calculated, in the ordinary mode
of a business transaction. There are no words in the jaw, which
by-any just interpretation can be held to extend the dppellate jurisdiction-beyohd those limits, and authorize us to take c6gnizance of
cases to which no test of money'V'alue can e applied.- Nor indeed
is this limitation upon the appellate power of this court confined to
cases like the one before us, It is th6 same in judgments in criminal cases, although the liberty or life of the party -may depend on
the decision of the Circuit Court. And since this court can exer-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

121

Mayberry v. Thompson.

cise no appellate power unless it is conferred by act of Congress,
the writ of error in this case must be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United. States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. Ozi consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

JACOB S. MAYBERRY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAi
DEFENDiNr.

s H. THomSON,

Under ttie acts of 1839, chap. 20 (5 Statutes at Large, 315), and 1840, chap. 43
5 Statutes at Large, 392), where a case was cared from the District Court
or the Middle District of Alabama to the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Alabama, and the Circuit Court reversed the judgment of the District Court,
it was not a proper mode of proceeding to bring the case to this court upon such
reversal.
The judgment of'the District Court having been reversed, the plaintiff should have
taken the necessary steps to bring his case to a finq1decision in the Circuit Court,
in the same manner as if the. suit had been originally brought there. This court
could then have reexamined the judgment of the Circuit Court, if a'writ of error
were sued out.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
It was originally brought by Mayberry in the District Court of
the United States for the Middle District of Alabama. Mayberry
was a citizen of Mississippi:
The action was brought at the May term, 1841, and was an action of trespass to "recover damages from Thompson, for forcibly
taking, seizing, and carrying away certain goods, wares, and merchandise of the plaintiff, at Warsaw, in Sumter county, Alabama.
At the November term, 1842, the cause came on for trial, when
the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages
at $ 3,709.94. On the trial, the defendant's counsel filed the following bill of exceptions.
Be it remembered, that, in the trial of this cause, the plaintiff in
the first instance introduced testimony tending to show that some
time in February or March, 1841, he sent cotton and drafts to Mobile, and received the proceeds thereof, about $ 3,200, and that he
went with the same, and with letters of recommendation, to the city
of New York, for the purchase of' goods, and there purchased
sundry bills of goods, of different houses, for which he paid to each
house about one half of the price of each purchase in money, the
proceeds of the cotton: and drafts aforesaid, and gave his own notes
VOL. V.
11

