176

SUPREM'E .COURT.
In

the Matter of Metzger.

from the Supreme Court for the Territ6ry of Wisconsin, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here or-.
dered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Supreme
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs,
and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded'to.the said
Supreme Court, with directions to that' court to dissolve the injunction in this case, and to dismiss the bill of the complainant with
costs of suit.

IN

THE MATTER

oF NIcHoLAs LUCIEN METZGER.

The treaty with France, made in 1843, provides for the mutual surrender of fugitives from justice, in certain cases.
Where a district judge, at his chambers, decided thot there. was sufficieit causa
for the surrender'of a person claimed by the French government, and c,mmitted
him to custody to await the order of the President of the United States, this
court has no jurisdiction to issue a habeas corpus for the purpose of reviewing
that decision.

,Mr. Coxe moved for a habeas corpus, according to the following
petition, which he read, and also the decision of the judge below.
"To'the Honorable, the Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United'States :"The petition of Nicholas Lucien Mretzger respectfully sheweth, - That be is restrained'from his liberty, and is now a prisoner
in jail, and under the custody of the marshal of the Southern District for the State of New York, and that he has been committed
to such jail and custody, and is now confined and detained therein,
under and by virtue-of a warrant and 'order of the Hon, Samuel
R. Betts, district judge for the Southern District of New York,
as an alleged fugitive irom justice, pursuant to the provisions of
the convention signed between .the United States and the French
government, on the 9th'of November, 1843.
"CThat annexed hereto is a.copy of the order, under and by virtue of which your petitioner has been apprehended and committed,
and is nosy detained in custody.
" Wherefore, your petitioner prays, that a writ of habeas corpus
may issue from this honorable court, to be directed to the marshal of the .Southern District of the State of New York, or to such
other persons as may hold or detain your petitioner. under and
by virtue of said order, commanding him or them to have the.
body of your petitioner before this honorable court, at such time
as in said writ may be specified, for the purpose of ifiquiring into
the cause of commitment of your. petitionek, and to do and abide
such order as this honorable court may make -in the premises.
"And your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
METZGER.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

177

In the Matter of Metzger.

"Sworn to before me, this 20th day of January, 1847.
GEORGE W. MORTON,
United States Commissionerfor the Southern
District of .N'ew York. '
"In the Matter of Nicholas Lucien Metzger :"This case having been heard before, me, on requisition through
the diplomatic agents of the ' French government that the said
Metzger be apprehended and committed for the purpose of being
delivered up as a fiigitive from justice, -pursuant to the provisions of
the convention signed between the United States and the French
government on the 9th of November, 1843':
" And exceptions having been taken by the counsel of the said
Metzger, in his behalf, to the competency of a judge of-the
United States to take cognizance of the subject-matter, and to the
sufficiency of the evidence to justify, any judicial action under the
treaty :
"And these exceptional objections being fully argued before me
by Messrs. Blunt and Hoffman, of counsel for Metzger, and by
Messrs. Tillon and Cutting in support of the requisition, and by
Mr. Butler, United States Attorney, on the part of the United
States (in respect to the jurisdiction of the judge, and the period
the treaty went into operation) :
" I find and adjudge, that a judge of the United States has competent authority, under the laws of the United States bow in force,
to take cognizance of this case, and to order the apprehension and
commitment of the accused, pursuant to the provisions of the said
treaty.
" 1 further adjudge, that the said treaty took effect and went into
operation on and from the day of the signature thereof.
" 1 ftirther adjudge, that the laws of France are to determine the
constituents of the crime of forgery, or ' dufaux,' of which Metzger is accused, and that the facts in evidence adequately prove the
commission of that crime by him in France, since the date of the.
treaty.
"I further find and adjudge, that Metzger is, within the meaning
and description of the treaty, a person accused, I individu accus6,' of
the crime of forgery, or I dufaux,' named in the treaty, and therefore subject to apprehension and commitment under our laws, pursuant to the provisions of tha treaty.
" And I find and adjudge, that the evidence produced against the
said Metzger is sufficient in law to justify his apprehension and
commitment on the charge of forgery, had the crime been committed within the United States.
" Wherefore I -order, that the said Nicholas Lucien Metzger be
apprehended and committed, pursuani to the-provisions of the said
treaty, to abide the order of 'the President of the United' States in*
the premises.

178

SUPREME COURT.
In the Alatter 'of Metzger.

" Given .under my'hand and seal at the city of New York,
this nineteenth day of January, one thousand eight hundred
[L. S.] and forty-seven.

(Signed,)

SAMUEL R. BETTS,
Judge of the United States for the Southern District of JNew York."

The case was argued by .Mr, Coxe, on behalf of the petitioner,
and by the Attorney-General (JMr. Clifford) and ,Mr. Jones, in
opposition to the motion.
,Mr. Coxe, for the motion.
Iii conveying the intimation that the court would hear an argument on behalf of the petitioner, no suggestion was thrown out as to
the .points to which counsel were desired to address themselves under these circumstances. What fell from the bench conveyed merely the idea that doubts were entertained by the court, but it conveyed
no intelligence as to the character of these doubts, to what part of
the case they extended, or whether they embraced the substantial
merits of the petitioner's case, or were limited to the form and language in which the application was presented.
Had the posture of the case permitted the court to adopt a practice which has on many occasions heretofore prevailed when .similar
applications have been made, and grant a rule upon the United
States, or those who represent the French government, to show
cause why the prayer of the petitioner should not be granted, it
would have relieved his counsel from much embarrassment. The
groundi upon which the application was to be resisted would have
been' distinctly announced, and full- opportunity would, have been
afforded to meet, and, if practicable, to answer them. In the situation, however, in which the case then stood, ignorant whether either government felt any such interest in the proceeding as would.
induce it to intervene by a direct opposition to. the motion which
was submitted, it would scarcely have been proper for me to have
suggested, or for the court to have sanctioned, the adoption of such
a course.
A# the same time, the appearance of counsel to resist the application only augments the difficulties of the position I occupy.
Whatever may have been the origin of the doubts entertained on
the bench, it by no means follows that the learning and abilities of
counsel may not multiply and increase the number, as well as
weight, of these objections. Placed, therefore, in this predicament
by the very nature of the case, it imposes upon me the necessity of
pursuing a course between two opposing difficulties,- of neither
undertaking to anticipate, and attempting to answer by anticipation,
the views and arguments of my learned friends, or of failing to exhibit a prini&facie case at least calling for the-interposition of this
court.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

179

In the Matter of Metzger.

Reserving, therefore, the privilege of answering the objections
which may be urged against my application, I proceed briefly to
state the grounds upon which reliance is placed to sustain it.
The pbtition, then, alleges, that the party on whose behalf and
in whose name it is presented is now in actual confinement in jail,
in the custody of the marshal of the 'Southern District of New
Ybrk, by whom he is thus held and restrained by virtue of an order or warrant of commitment, issued and signed by the Hon.
Samuel R. Betts, district judge of the Southern District of New
York. It appears that this warrant of commitment is a process
utterly unknown to the common law or statute law of the United
Stes. It is not for the Furpose of bringing the accused to trial
befdre any court of the Union, for any offence committed against
the laws of the United States, or triable before any of its couri ;
it is not for the purpose of enforcing any responsibility in the shape
of a debt due to any creditor, for the violationor breach of any contract, or to answer to any allegation of a tort of which those courts
have cognizance ; nor is it in the nature of an execution to compel
the prisoner to respond to any process in the nature of an execution
upon any judgment rendered against him by any court of the United
States, or in the nature of an attachment for an " contempt committed against such tribunal.
All this is fully set forth in the petition, and in the order of commitment annexed to it. The object, therefore, of the writ now
sued for is, to enable this court to pronounce its judgment upon the
lawfulness of such an imprisonment, and upon the authority under
which it has been made.
The simple fact that such imprisonment exists under color and
pretence of right presents a prima facie case warranting- the application now made, and the language of the constitution and statutes
of the United States, taken in connection with the reiterated judgments of this court asserting its power, and actually exercising the
-jurisdiction and authority now invoked, would seem clearly to establish primd facie a right in the petitioner to have the benefit of this
high prerogative writ. If there is any ground of objection, growing
out of the, circumstances of the case, which destroys this primd facie presumption as to the facts, they are~to be found in the peculiar
characteristics of those circumstances which attend the arrest of
the petitioner ; if. any to meet the legal authorities upon which we
rely, they must in consequence of these circumstances be held inapplicable to the case under consideration.
The points which are thus presented for the adjudication of this
court are,1. Whether the facts as presented exhibit a proper case for the
awarding of a writ of habeas corpus.
2. Whether, if such be the case, this court has authority and'
jurisdiction over it.

180

SUPREME

COURT.

In the Matter of Mretzger.
1. As to the-facts.
It is understood that an application was
made to the executive, by the minister representing the French
government, for the apprehension and delivery of the petitioner.
This application was declined, on the ground that no such power
resided in that branch of the government, and the French government was referred to the judicial department. In declining itself to
act without farther legislative authority, I conceive the executive
rightly judged. Id the opinion that the judiciary possessed the
power, I think it erred. This, however, was clearly an obiter
expression of opinion, and not decisive on this question. The
f6rmer part of the opinion is opposed by very eminent authority.
Be this as it may, the executive refused to comply with the requisition, and there has been no warrant of arrest or orde' of commitment emanating from that quarter.
An arrest was then made by a local magistrate of New York,
who decided that he had authority over the case. The 'petitioner
was then liberated by a circuit judge of that State, who decided
that f te State judiciary had no jurisdiction, and on this ground discharged the party on habeas corpus.
The diplomatic representative of the French government then
addressed Judge Betts, the district judge of the United States,
who, after full hearing, decided that the federal judiciary -had jurisdiction over the party and the case, and awarded the order of
commitment.
The entire judgment of the district judge rests upon the ground
that he is exercising judicial power, and determining a question of
judicial jurisdiction.
If he be right on this point, this court will.probably refuse the
hobeas corpus, because, concurring in the opinion, they would feel
themselves compelled to remand the prisoner, his imprisonment
being for lawful cause and by competent authority. If wrong, the
writ ought to issue, because the arrest was unlawful.
I am aware that this court has held, that, in awarding this writ, it
does so in the exercise of appellate and.not original jurisdiction,
and that a doubt has been expressed whether, this being a proceeding before the district judge at chambers, -this court can
exercise any revisory power over it. This question will be presented
more fully hereafter. In the mean time I would suggest, that to
act upon this distinction would seem to involve this extraordinary
conclusion, that if the'district judge, acting in open court upon a
case regularly before him, should commit a party to prison, this
court would possess the jurisdiction to award the writ ; but inasmuch as the commitment was in the exercise of an undoubted
power, the judgment of the District Court, not being revisable here,
would be final, and the court, seeing that it must necessarily remand
upon the hearing, would decline to issue the writ ; whereas, if it appeared that the judge exercised an authority not granted by law,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
In

the

181

latter of 31-etzger.

and assumed a jurisdiction not belonging to him, then, as he did not
act in open court, his proce6edings, however erroneous and unauthorized, cannot be drawn in question here through the instrumentality of this writ.
Such has not been the interpretation heretofore given by this
court to its own grant of power. With this general remark this
point will be postponed for the present- until we reach it in the
regular progress of the argument.
Let us now examine whether the district judge, either as presiding in the District Court or at chambers, had any authority to
hear this application, to exercise any jurisdiction over the case, and
to make the order for commitment. I apprehend this question
must be answered in the negative.
The courts of the United States, and the judges of those courts;
can exercise no powers of a judicial character, and can possess no
jurisdiction, except that which is conferred upon them under the
authority of the constitution by act of Congress.
The Supreme Court is the only court named in the constitution,
and even this high tribunal has no existence simply by the force and
operation of the constitution 'itself. Until Congress brought it into
existence, and gave it organization, it existed rather in posse than in
esse. But the inferior courts, the Circuit and District Courts, exist
only under the authority of legislation. Congress alone created
them, meted out to each the powers which it enjoys, prescribed the orbit within which it should move, and prescribed every
limit by which its jurisdiction was to be ascertained. I am entitled
to put the question which I now address to this court, and to my
learned friends, Where is tc be found any grant of jurisdiction to a
District Court, far more to a district judge, to exercise the power
assumed in the present case ? Upon what act of Congress can the
finger be laid which confers it ? None such exists.
The only ground upon which this claim was rested before and
by the district judge is that of the treaty stipulations with France,
and 'he means by which he acquired jurisdiction on application
addressed to him by the diplomatic agent of the French government.
With great deference, I cannot but think the .mode as irregular as
the authority unfounded.
Under our institutions, there exists but one legitimate channel of
communication between this and any foreign nation ; that organ is
the executive. It is unprecedented in gur judifial and legislative
annals, for the diplomatic representative 4df a foreign government to
address himself immediately to the judicial or legislative departments.
Such a course is equally unknown to the history of England.
Nor in my judgment is it less extraordinary in an American judge
to regard such an application to him as in the nature of the original
writ out of chancery, to call into attiof the latent powers of the judiciary. A record which should begin by setting forth such a paper
VOL. V.
16

182

SUPREME COURT.
In the MAtter of Metzger.

would be a judicial if not a political curiosity, and it is hoped it may
be brought before the eyes of this court by a writ of certiorari to
accompany the habeas corpus.
But no such jurisdiction exists to be evoked and called into exercise by this or any other process. It has been observed, that no
such authority is c6nferred by any statute. With submission I may
say, that to me it seems preposterous to assert that it may be conferred by treaty. It is a new idea to me that the treaty-making
power can, by the most latitudinarian construction, be held to be a
constitutional source of power and jurisdiction to any court or judge
of the United States. New objects of judicial power, new subjects
upon which it is to operate, may extend the number of cases which
may be presented for judicial decision, but can never be .appealed
to as a grant of judicial power. Treaty stipulations operate only
directly upon the parties to them., and not upon the citizens, except
as part of the law of their own land. All may recollect.the recent
circumstance arising between England and Brazil, in which it was
thought necessary to invest, by legislative authority, the British
courts with jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of the treaty upon
Brazilian subjects.
In 1794, Jay's treaty, 27th article, provided for the surrender of
fugitives from justice ; 8 Stat. at Large, 129. In 1842, the Ashburton treaty, art. 10, ibid. 576. In 1843, the convention with
France, ibid. 580. In the absence of legislative provisions, can
either of these treaties be executed ?
A recent occurrence in our history may illustrate this ; Act of
Aug. 8, 1846, ch. 105 ; Acts, &c., p. 78.
If, then, the district judge has assumed a power not conferred
upon him, can this court award a habeas corpus ? If adherence is
had to judicial precedents, not hastily or inconsiderately decided,
there is an end to this question. United States v. Hamilton., 3
Dall. 17, precisely in point, in 1795 ; in 1806, Ex parte Burford,
3 Cranch, 448 ; in 1807, Bollman & Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75 ;
Ex parte C~ibrera, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 232 ; Ex parte Kearney,
7 Wheat. 38; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 200 ; 7 Pet. 568.
J fr. Clifford, the Attorney-General, submitted three propositions :-

1. That the treaty took effect and went into operation on and
from the day of the date theteof.
2. That the judge of the District Court had comp6tent-authority,
under the provisions of the treaty and the laws of the United States
now in force, to take jurisdiction of this case, and to order the apprehension of 'the accused in the manner in which it was done,
pursuant to the stipulations of the treaty.
As the decision of the court was exclusively on the point of jurisdiction, it is not considered necessary to do more than give the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

183

In the Matter of Metzger.
authorities cited by the Attorney-General to sustain these two
propositions. On the first he cited, 1 Kent's Com. 169i 170;
Hylton v. Brown, 1 Wash. C. C. Rt. 312 ; Wheaton's International Law, 306, 573 ; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 748,
758 ; 2 Burlamaqui, 233 ; Vattel, B. 3, § 239 ; Rutherford's
Inst., B. 2, chap. 9, § 22; Mattens, B. 2, chap. 1, § 3; 2
McCulloch's Dict. Com. 654-674. On the second he cited,
Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 314 ; United States v. Arredondo, 6
Pet. 734, 735 ; Constitution, art. VI. ; Case of Thomas Sheagle,
Massachusetts District, October Term, 1845, MS. ; 8 Statutes
at Large, 129.; Jayls Treaty, art. 27 ; United States v. Nash
alias Robbins, Bee, 266 ; 3 Story's Com. §§ 1640, 1641 ; Osborn
v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738 ; Constitution, art. III.,
§ 2 ; Chisholm v. State of Georgia, 2 Dall. 419 ; Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 12 Pet, 657 ; Barry v. Meriein, ante, p. 103;
United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336 ; United States t. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76 ; Judiciary Act of 1789, §§ 9, 11, 33 ;
Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 42 ; United States v. Schooner
Peggy, 1 Cranch, 109, 110 ; 3 Story's Com. § 1515 ; Case
of Santos, 2 Brock. 494.
3. The third proposition submitted was, that the Supreme Court
has no authority, under the constitution and laws of the United
States, to grant the writ of habeas cbrpus prayed for in the petition. 1st. Because its original jurisdiction is restricted to cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those
in which a State shall be party. 2d. Because it possesses no appellate power in any case, unless conferred upon it by act of Congress, nor can it, where conferred, be exercised in any other form
or by any other mode of proceeding than that which the law prescribes. 3d. Because the Supreme Court was created by the constitution, and its jurisdiction was conferred and defined by that instrument and the laws of Congress made in pursuance thereof;
consequently, it possesses no inherent common law powers beyond
the written law.
1st. No original jurisdiction in this case. By art. III., § 2,
of the constitution, it is provided, that the judicial power shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the
Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The second
section describes the whole circle of the judicial power of the United States, giving its extent and boundaries ; it then distributes that
power, first in marking and defining the original jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court, limiting it, with a precision and certainty defying
all construction, to cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and cases to which a State shall be a party. So
firmly is this view of the case etablished by the constitution, that
Congress itself has no power to-enlarge the original jurisdiction of
this copirt, or to extend it to any other cases than those enumerated.

184

SUPREME COURT.
In the M ttter of Metiger.

It was accordingly held, that so much of the thirteenth section -of
the Judiciary Act as gave authority to the Supreme Court to issue
writs of mandamus to public officers was unconstitutional and void.
Marbury v.- Madison, I Cranch, 173- 175 ; Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 400. The original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court can
neither be enlarged or regtained, but must stand as it is writttn in
the constitution by which it is conferred.
2d. No appellate jurisdiction. The appellate power of the Supreme Court is described in the constitution in these words : -- " In
all the other cases before nientioned, the Supreme Court shall have
appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions
and under such regulations as the Congress shall make." The appellate authority, though somewhat extensive under the constitution,
is not general, but is limited and confined to the cases specially
efiumerated, and i*.made subject to such exceptions and regulations
as Congress may from time to time prescribe. The grants conferring.original and appellate jurisdiction disclose this marked distinction ; - the former can neither be restrained or enlarged ; the latter,
while it cannot be enlarged beyond the limits of its circle, yet within those limits Congress may confer as much or as little as in its
discretion it may consider wise and expedient. Barry v. Mercein,
ante, p. 103.
The authority to issue writs of habeas corpus is not claimed to
be among the enumerated cases of original jurisdiction conferred
upon the Supreme Court. The language of the grant in this respect
leaves nothing for implication ; if any doubt could arise; the case of
Marbury v. Madison silences argument and dispute upon the point.
Ex parte Barry, 2 How. 65. The appellate jurisdiction, being
given with such exceptions and under such regulations as Congress
may make, can only be exercised in pursuance of an act of Congress conferring the authority and prescribing, the mode in which it
shall be performed • that is, the manner of exercising the power
must first be regulated by law. The question, -therefore, in any
given case, whether the court has appellate jurisdiction over it, resolves itself into the simple inquiry, whether such case falls within
the legislative provisions enacted in pursuance of the constitution
relative to the exercise of this branch of jurisdiction. Wiscart v.
Dauchy, 3 Dall. 327; United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 172; Durousseau v. United States, 6 Cranch, 313. In gearch of the vagrant
power to issue this writ, all other resorts failing, it must be found, if
it exist anywhere, in the appellate jurisdiction of this court. That'
is clearly admitted in the case of Bollman & Swaitwort, 4 Cranch,
100, mainly relied on by the petitiotfer. In all cases where this power
has been claimed or exercised, it has been invariably justified on
the ground that it was an element of appellate authority.- Thus, in
Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters,'202, Chief Justice Iarshall says, "It is in the nature of a writ of error to examine the legality of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

185

In the *Matter of Metzger.

commitment." Same case, 7 Peters, 572. In Ex parte Milburn, 9 Peters, 704, in note, Chief Justice Marshall again says,
As the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is appellate, it must be
first shown that the court has the power.in this case to award a habeas corpus." In the final opinion in the case, the writ was refused
upon other grounds. Subsequently, in Ex parte Barry, 2 Howard,
65, Mr. Justice Story maintains the same view, and discloses
what may be considered the true doctrine upon the whole subject
of the power of this court to grant writs of habeas corpus. under
existing laws. He says : - "No case is presented for the exercise
of the appellate jurisdiction of this court, by any review of the final
decision and award of the Circuit Court upon any such proceedings.
The case, then, is one avowedly and nakedly for the exercise of
original jurisdiction by this court. Now the constitution of the
United States has not confided any original jurisdiction to this court,
except in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party. The present
case falls not within either predicament. It is the case of a private individual, who is an alien, seeking redress for a supposed wrong
-done him by another private individual, who is a citizen of New
York. It is plain, therefore, that this court has no original jurisdiction to entertain the present petition, and we cannot issue any wxit
of habeas corpus, except when it is necessary for the exercise of
the jurisdiction, original or ajipellate, given to it by the constitution
or laws of the"-United Siates." The appellate power must be
sought and found, if it exist, in the acts of Congress conferring it
upon this court. Certainly no question can arise upon the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, which stands in many respects upon different principles. The thirteenth section of that act provides,
that "the Supreme Court shall also have appellatejurisdiction from
the Circuit Courts, and courts of the several States, in the cases
hereinafter specially provided for." The twenty-second section
limits the appellate power upon a writ'of error of a Circuit Court to
final decrees and judgments in civil actions in a District Court) where
the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value, of fifty dollars exclusive of costs. And upon a.like process, this court may reexamine and reverse or affirm final judgments and decrees in civil actions
and suits in equity in a Circuit. Court, brought there by 'original
process, or removed there from the courts of the sever1 States, or
by appeal there from a District Court, where the matter in dispute
exceed; the sum or value of two thousand dollars exclusive of costs.
The proceeding in this case cannot be sustained under this section.
There is no writ of error, which is the only process mentioned by
which it could be instituted; there is no final judgment or decree
in any inferior court, within the meaning of the law ;, it is not a civil
action, much less a suit in equity, and therefore not within the scope
and meaning of the section.
16*

186

SUPREME COURT.
In

the Matter of Metzger.

The Supreme -Cofirt has no appellate jurisdiction in criminal
cases, according to repeated decisions which have never been ques-

tioned. United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 172; United States
v. La Vengeance, 3 Dali. 297 ; United States v. -Hudson et al.,
7 Cranch, 32.
Jurisdiction is defined to be. the power to hear and determine a
cause. . Appellate jurisdiction is the power to correct: and revise
the judgment of an inferior court. Chief Justice Marshall says, in
Marbury v. Madison, 1. Cranch, 175, -"
It is the essential crit-"
rion of appellate jurisdiction, that it revises and corrects the proceedings in a cause already instituted, and does not create the
cause." The case, or subject-matter in. dispute, now under consideration was not instituted in any tribunal over which this court may
exercise any supervisory power; it was not a proceeding in court,
but before -the district judge,. sitting and acting in his capacity as
a magistrate, under the thirty-third section of the act of. 1789. The
power of this court, under the constitution and laws of Congress,
does not and cannot reach the forum where the matter was instituted and decided. This court has no revising power over the
-District Court, nor is it: authorized to issue a writ of prohibition to
it in any case, except where that court is proceeding as'a court of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Ex parte. Christie, 3 How.
352. Arid this is true, although writs of prohibition are enumer,ated in the fourteenth section of the act. The application in that
case was, that the writ might issue to an inferior court, performing
the function of a court, and having exclusive jurisdiction of the
subject-matters in controversy. If there is no power to revise the
doings of a bankrupt 'court under federal authority, where is the
right to assume control over the doings of a justice of the peace,
or a district.judge, while sitting as a committing magistrate ? MeCluny v. Sillimai, 2 Wheat. 369 ; McIntire v. 'Wood, 7 Cranch,
504. The revising power of this court does not extend to the person, but, -when it exists, it operates upon the inferior tribunal and
the subject-matter in controversy. The district judge, in the capacity in which he acted, under the laws.of the United States, was
entirely independent of this court ; his decision was final-and conclusive ; and this court could not reverse or dffirm it were the
record brought up directly by writ of error, and so is the decision
in Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 201. It has already appeared that
the Supreme Court has no appellate jurisdiction of crimes and
offerices, aud of course no process issuing here can extend to the
subject-matter of ithis application. This is therefore, undeniably, a
call upon the court to exercise original power in granting the writ in
question. That power this cburt has directly and solemnly, on
several occasions, decided it does not possess. In all the cases
where the power has been exercised or countenanced, it has been
upon the greund of revising, in some form, the doings of an inferior

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

187

In the Matter of Metzger.

tribunal, over which this court possesses appellate power. Here
the Attorney-General cited and commented on the following cases
on this point, in addition to those already mentioned: United
States v,. Hamilton, 3 Dall. 17 ; Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 453;
Ex parte Dorr, 3 Howard, 104.
3d. The Supreme Court possesses no inherent or common law
power to grant writs of habeas corpus. On 'this point it was insisted, that a revidw of all the cases would show" that the doctrine
had been uniformly repudiated by the court, and that since the decision of Bollman & Swartwout it has been abandoned by the bar.
Some comments were made on-the second clause of section ninth
of the first article of the constitution, which provides that the privi"lege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless
when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require
it. This provision was regarded as one containing a prohibition
upon the powers of Congress, and not as one conferring any authority on the federal courts. .3 Story's Com. § 1332.
In conclusion, it was insisted, that all the power of this court to
issue writs of habeas corpus was derived from the fourteenth section
of the" Judiciary Act. There are two clauses in the section upon
this sulbject, which should be treated separately. The seeming
inconsistency, if any exists, in the cases decided, has doubtless
.arisen by omitting to keep clearly in view the manifest distinction
in the nature and character of the power conferred by these two
clauses. The first provides, that " all the before-mentioned courts
of the United States shall have power to issue writs of scire facias,
habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for by
*tatute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeably to the principles and usages-of law."
This clause undoubtedly authorizes the issuing of inferior writs of
habeas corpus in aid of jurisdiction, which have been long known in
the practice of courts, and are indispensable in the course of legal
proceedings. Bac. Abr. Habeas Corpus, A; 2 Chitty's Black.
130. The ,second clause is in these words : -I "And that either of
the justices of the Supreme.Court, as well as the judges of the District Courts, shall have power to grant writs of habeas coi.pu§, for
the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment." Undoubtedly this clause authorizes the issue of the great writ of habeas
corpus ad subjic.iendum, which is of general use to examifa the
legality of commitments in criminal cases. The power conferredl
by this clause is expressly delegated to either of the justices of the
Supreme Court, and not to the whole, when convened for the trial
of causes. If the question were one of new impression, it would
seem to follow, that the authority to be derived from the law should
be exercised according to the language of the act. In the present
case, however, it is not necessary to insist on the point, as the proceeding below was not in a tribunal over which this court has any
appellate power.

188

SUPREME

COURT.

In the Matter of Metzger

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition. for a habeas corpus, in which the petitioner
represents that he is a prisonerin jail, under the custody of the
marshal for the Southern District of the State of New York, by
virtue of a warrant issued by tie judge of the United States for
said district, as an alleged fugitive from justice, pursuant to the provisions of the convention signed between the United States and
the French government on the 9th of November, 1843.
On a full hearing at chambers, the district judge held "that the
,evidence produced against the said Metzger was sufficient in law to
justify his apprehension and commitment on the charge of forgery,
had. the crime -been committed within the United States"; and
the prisoner was " committed, pursuant to the provisions of the said
treaty, to abide the. order of the President of the United States." "
In the first article of the convention for the surrender of criminals between the United States and his Majesty, the king of the
French, on the 9th of November, 1843, it was " agreed, that the
high contracting parties shall, on requisitions made in their name,
through the medium of their respective diplomatic agents, deliver
up to justice persons who, being accused of the crimes enumerated
in the next following article, committed within the jurisdiction of
the requiring party, shall seek an asylum, or shall be found within
the territories of the other: provided, that this shall be done only
when the fact of the commission of the crime shall be so established,
as that the laws of the country in which the fugitive or the person
so accused shall be found would"justify his or her apprehension and
commitment for trial, if the crime had been there committed."
The second article specifies, among other crimes, that of forgery,
with which the prisoner was charged.
The third article declares that, " on the part of the government
of the United States, the surrender shall be made only by the
authority of the executive thereof."
It is contended that the treaty, without the aid of legislation, does
not authorize an atest of a fugitive from France, however clearly
the crime may be proved against him ; -that
the treaty provides
for a surrender by the executive only; and not through the instrumentality of the judicial power.
The mode adopted by ihe executive in the present case seems to
be the proper one. Under the provisions of the constitution, the
treaty is the supreme law of the' land, and, in regard to rights and
responsibilities growing out of it, it may become a. subject of judicial
cognizance. The surrender of fugitives from justice is a matter Qf
conventional 4rrangement'between states, as no such obligation is
imposed.by the laws of nations,
Whether the crime charged is sufficiently proved, and comes
within the treaty, are matters for judicial decision ; and the executive, when the late'demand of' the surrender of Metzger was made,

JANUARY
In

TERM; 1847.

189

the Matter 'of Metzger-

very properly, as we suppose, referred it to the judgment of'a judicial officer. The arrest which followed, and the committal of the
accused, subject to the order of the, executive, seems to be the
most appropriate, if not the only, mode of giving effect to the
treaty.
The jurisdiction of this court in this matter is the main question
for consideration. As -this has been argued'fully, and as it is supposed- that there is a conflict in the decisions of this court oi the
subject, a reference will be made to the hases which have been
adjudged.
In the United States V. Hamilton, 3 Dallas, 17, a writ-of habeas
corpus was issued, on which the defendant, who was charged with
high treason, was brought into court. He had been committed on
the warrant of the district judge. A motion was made for his discharge, " absorlutely, or at least uipon reasonable bail." The court
held the- prisoner to bail. From the opinion pronounced, it appears
the deliberation of the court was chiefly on the subject of appointing
a special circuit court to try certain offences, which, for the reasons
assigned, they refused to do.
Here, it is said, was an original exercise' of jurisdiction by the
court, as it does hot appear ihat the district judge was holding a
court at the time of the commitment. No objection seems to have
been made to the jur'isdiction,. and the court did not consider it.
The defendant was discharged on bail, and this may be presumed'
to have been one of the main objects of the writ.
The thirty-third section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 provides,
that, " upon all arrests in criminal cases, bail shall be admitted,
except where the punishment may be death, in which cases it shall
not be admitted but by the Supreme or a Circuit Court, or by a
justice of the Supreme Court," &c. Hamilton's case was within
this section, the charge against him being treason, which was punishable with death. The case is not fully reported. The motion
to discharge the prisoner is not noticed in the opinion of the -court,
and this omission may be accounted for on the ground that they had
no power to discharge. But, whether this presumption be well
founded or not, it is clear, if this were not the exercise of an original jurisdiction, that the court had a right to admit to bail, under the
section, and for that purpose to cause the defendant to be brought
before them by a habeas corpus.
Ex parts Burford, 3 Cranch, 448, was a habeas corfius, on which
the prisoner, who had been committed by the Circuit.Court of this
District, was discharged, there being no sufficient cause for the
commitment.
Ex parte Bollman & Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 76, gave rise to
much discussion on the power of the court to issue a writ of habeas
corpus ; and, in their opinion, they consider the subject with great
care.

190

SUPREME COURT.
In the Matter of Metzger.

The chief justice disclaimed all jurisdiction in the case, "not
given by the constitution or laws of the United States."
He refers to the fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act above
cited, in these words :-" That all the before-mentioned courts
of the United States shall have power td, issue writs of scirefacias,
habeas corpus, and all other writs, not specially provided for by
statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law.
And that either of the justices of the Supreme Court, as well as
judges of the District Courts, shall have power to grant writs of
habeas corpus, for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment. Provided, that writs of habeas corpus shall in no case
extend to prisoners in jail, unless where they are in custody under
or by color of the authority of the United States, or are committed
for trial before some court of the same, or are necessary to be
brought into court to testify."
Bollman and Swartwout had "been committed by the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, on a charge of treason against
the United States."
The.court held, that the proviso limiting the cases in which the
writ should issue extends to the whole section, and that ;they could
issue the writ, as it was clearly the exercise of an appellate jurisdiction ; that "the revision of a decision of an inferior court, by
which a citizen has been committed to jail," is an appellate power.
In Ex parte Kearney, " who was committed by the Circuit'Couit
of the District of Columbia, for an alleged contempt," 7 Wheat.
8, the court said, that the case of Bollman -and Swartwout ex"pressly decided, upon ftll argument, that this court possessed such
an authority, and the question has ever since been considered at
rest." And they held, " that a writ of habeas corpus was -not a
proper remedy, -where a party was committed for a contempt by a
court of competent jurisdiction."
The preceding cases were all referred to in Ex parte Watkins,
3 Peters, 193, and the court said, - 1' Without looking into the indictments under which the prosecution against the petitioner was
conducted, we are unanimously of opinion that the judgment of a
court of general criminal jurisdiction justifies hi imprisonment, and
that the writ of habeas corpus ought not to be awarded."
Again, in 7 Peters, 568, the case of Ex lparte Watkins was
brought before the court- on a writ of habeas corpus, on the ground
that -the prisoner "would not be detained in jail longer than the
return day of the process, and he had been brought into court and
committed, by the order of the court, to the custody of the marshal." This coimmittal was required by the law of Maryland, in
force in this District, and it not having been ordered, the court discharged- the petitioner.
In all the above cases, except in that of Hamilton, this court

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

191

In the Matter of Metzger.

sustained the power to issue the writ of habeas corpus, in the exercise of an appellate jurisdiction under the fourteenth section of the
act of 1789 ; and the case of Hamilton was probably sustained,
under the thirty-third section of the same act, for the purpose of
taking bail. The same doctrine. *as maintained in Ex parte Dorr,
3 Howard, 104. In that case the proviso in the fourteenth section
was considered as restricting the jurisdiction to cases- where a
prisoner is "in custody under or by color bf the authority of the
United States, or has been committed for trial before some court

of the same, or is necessary to be brought into court to testifyr."
The case under consideratib'n was heard and decided by the district judge at his chambers, and not in court ; and the question
arises, whether the court can exercise jurisdiction to examine into
the cause of commitment, under such a state of facts.
There is no pretence that this cai be done, in the nature of an
appellate power. This court can exercise no powe'r, in an appellate form, over decisions made at his chambers by a justice of-this
court, or a judge of the ]Distric: Court. The argument of the.
court, in the base of Bollman and Swartwout, that th*e power given
to an individual judge may well be exercised by the court, must not
be considered as asserting an original Jurisdictioii to issue die writ.
On the contrary, the power exercised in that case was an appellate
one, and the jurisdiction was maintained on that ground.
It may be admitted that there -is some refinement in denominating
that an appellate power which is exercised through the instrumentality of a wrft of habeas corpus. In this form nothing more can be
examined into than the legality of the commitment. However erroneous the judgment of the court may be, either in a civil or criminid case, if it had jurisdiction, and the defendant has been- duly
committed, under an execution or sentence, he cannot be discharged by this writ. In criminal cases, this court have no revisory
power over the decisions of the Circuit Court ; and yet, a apf-ears
from the cases cited, "the cause of commitment" in that court
may be examined i*n this, on a writ of habeas corpus. And this is
done by the exercise of an, appellate power, - a power to inquire
merely into tie legality of the imprisonment, but not to correct the
errors of the judgment of the Circuit Court. This does not conflict
with the principles laid down in Marbury v. Madison, i Cranich,
137. In that case, the court refused to exercise an original jurisdiction by issuing a mandamus to the Secretary-of State ; and they
held, that "Congress have not powe*r to give original jurisdiction to
the Supreme Court in other cases than those described in the
constitution."
There is no form in which an appellate power can be exercised
by this court over the proceedings of a district judge at his chambers. -He exercises a special authority, and the la.w has made no
provision for the revision of his judgment. It cannot be brought

192

SUPREME COURT.
Creath's Administrator v. Sims.

before the District or Circuit Court; consequently it cannot, in the
nature of an appeal, be brought before this court. The exercise
of an original jurisdiction only could reach such a proceeding, and
this has not been given by Congress, if they have the power to
confer it.
Upon the whole, the motion for the writ of habeas corpus in this
case is overruled.
"Order.
Mr. Coxe, of counsel for the petitioner, having filed, and read"
in open court the petition of the 'aforesaid Nicholas Lucien
Metzger, and moved the court for a writ of habeas corpus, as prayed
for in the aforesaid petition, to be directed to the marshal of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, commanding,
him forthwith to produce before this honorable court the body of
the petitioner, with the cause of his detention,- on consideration
whereof, and of the argument, "of counsel thereupon'had, as well
against as in support of the said motion, and after mature deliberation thereupon had, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the prayer of the petition be denied, and that the said
motion be and the same is Jiereby ovenuled.

ALBERT G. CREATH'S ADmINISTRATOR, COIPLAINANT AND APELT.ANT,
v. WILLIAM-D. Sims.
The following principles of equity jurisprudence may be affirmed to be without
exception; namely, that whosoever would seek admission into a court of equity
must come with clean hands; that such a court will never interfere in opposition to conscience or good faith; that it will never'be called into activity to
remedy the consequences of ]aches 'or neglect, or the want of reasonable diligenv'_
'Therefore, where a com plainant prays to be relieved from the fulfilment of a conl tract, which was intbntionally made in fraud of the- law, the answer is, that
however unworthyInay have been- the conduct of his opponent, the parties are
in pari delicto.
The complainant cannot be admitted to plead his own demerits.
Nor is it any ground of interference when a complainant applies to be relieved
from the.payment of a promissory note given under the above circumstances,
upon which judgment had been recovered at law. The consideration upon
which the note was given was then open to inquiry, and it is a sufficient indul* gence to have been permitted once to set up such a defence.
The cases examined, showing how farand under what circumstances the liability
of a surety becomes fixed upon him as a principal deb.tor.
Where the plaintiff in a suit voluntaily abstains from pressing the principal debtor,
but receives no consideration for such indulgence, nor putsany limitation upon
his right to proceed upon his execution, whenever it may be his pleasure to do
so, this- conduct furnishes no reason for the exemption of the surety fr6m liability,
and especially where the surety had united with his principal in a forthcoming
bond.
The authorities upon this point examined.

THE reporter finds the following statement of the case prefixed

to the opinion. of the, court, as delivered by Mr. Justice Daniel.

