382

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

The two sovereignties of the State and the territorial government
cannot exist at the same time within the same limits. The territorial government exists in full vigor until it is abolished by the admission of the State. There was, then, a direct and irreconcilable
repugnance in the exercise of the sovereign power by the State, so
long as the federal authority was exercised in the Territory.
Mr. Justice WAYNE concurred, that this court had not jurisdiction in this case, but did not assent to any conclusions in the
opinion on the merits in this controversy involving the political relations of Micligan with the United States before Michigan was
admitted into the Union.
Mr. Justice NELSON concurred with the opinion of Mr.
Justice McLean.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the'State of Michigan, and was argued
by counsel. On-consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by. this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

Tm

UNITED STTS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE BANK OF THE
UNITED STATES.

In the case of The United States v. The Bank of the United States (2 Howard, 711),
the court is of opinion that the question on the structure of the bill is an open
question, and for the first time presented to this court for decision.
The statute of Maryland of 1785, in its terms, does not embrace a bill of exchange
drawn on a foreign government.
A bill of exchange in form, drawn by one 'government on another, as this was, is
not and cannot be governed by the law merchant, and thereforeis not subject to
protest and consequential damages..

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court bf the United States for the Eastern iDistrict of Pennsylvania, and Was a continuation of the same case, between the game
parties, which was reported'in 2 Howard, 711.
Being sent back to the Circuit Court, it came up for trial in- No,
vember, 1844,,when .the "ury, under the instructions of the court,
found a verdict for the defendants below, viz. the bank.
At the trial, the following bill of exceptions was filed, which
brought the case again to this court.
Bill of Exception.
Be it remembered, that tt the sessions of April, A. D. 1838,
came the United Stites of America into the Circuit Court of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

383

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and imp leaded the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank'of the
nited States, in a certain plea of trespass in the case, &c., in
which the said plaintiffs declared (prout narr.) and the said defendants pleaded (prout pleas). And thereupon issue was joined* between them.
And afterwards, to wit, at a session of said court, held at the
city of Philadelphia, before the Honorable Archibald Randall?
judge of the said court, on the
day of November, A. D. 1844,
the, aforesaid issue between the said parties came to be tried by a
jury of the said district, duly impanelled (prout jury), at which
day came as well the plaintiff as the said defendant, by their respective attorneys ; and the jurors aforesaid, impanelled to try the
issues aforesaid, being also called,. came, and were then and there
in due manner chosen -and sworn, or affirmed, to try the said issues;
and, upon the trial, the counsel of the said plaintiffs stated their demand to be for $ 170,041.18, with interest, - the balance unpaid,due to the plaintiffs as holders 6f 66,692 shares of the capital stock
of defendants, of $ 3.50 per share, being the amount of a dividend
of half-yearly profits declared by the defendants in the month of
July, A. D. 1834. And to maintain the said issue on the part 'of
the plaintiffs, proved that they were then.the holders of said shares
of stock, and gave in evidence a resolution of the directors of the
said defendants made on the 7th July, 1834 (prou), and their
advertisement in one of the daily- newspapers of Philadelphia
(proul), and the account of the said defendants in their books with
.he plaintiffs for the first half-year of 1833 (prout).
And the defendants, to maintain the said issue on their part, gave
in evidence a bill. of exchange, drawn and dated at the treasury
department of the United States, Washington, 7th February, 1833,
by the Secretary of the Treasury on the Minister and Secretary of
State for the Department of Finance of the kingdom of France
for 4,856,6669 francs, payable at sight .to the order of defdndants' cashier (prout bill) ; and the several indorsements thereon,
(prout) ; and a writing of the same date with the said bill, under the
seal of the United States and hand of the President, dated at Washington (prout) ; and the presentment and refusal of payment and
protest of said bill, at Paris, on the 22d of March, 1833 (prout) ;
protest, and a notice thereof by defendants, through their cashier,- to
the said Secretary of the Treasury, in a letter of 26th April, 1833
(prout) ; and the return of said bill and protest to the said Secretary of the Treasury, in a letter from the said defendants' cashier,
dated 13 May, 1833, with an.account annexed'; in which letter and
account demand was made of the payment of the principal of the
said bill, with costs and charges of nrotest and interest thereon, and
damages on said principal, at fifteen per cent. (prout letter and account) ; and proved the then rate of exchange to have been as

384

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States,

therein stated ; arid'gave in evidence a statute of the State of Maryland (prout), passed in 1785, and an article of the commercial
code 9 f France (prout) ; and the correspondence (prout) between
the Secretary of the Treasury and the defendants, concerning said
bill, before and after the drawing thereof, and proved the allowance
by the Secretary of the Treasury of a credit for, and payment thus
made, of the principal of said bill ; and further proved the presentment to the accounting officers of the treasury, and their rejection
and disallowanc of a claim on the part of the defendants, for a credit
of the said fifteen per cent. thereon, and said cost and charges of
protest (prout exemplifiation); and the said defendants'claimed on the
said trial a credit for and to set off de"falk.: the same claims being,
as ihey alleged, in amount equal to the claim of the plaintiffs.
And the said plaintiffs, to rebut the aforesaid claim of the said
defendants to a.set-off, relied upon and gave in evidence a convention between the United States of America and France, made the
4th day'of July, A. D. 1831, and ratified the 2d day'of February,
'A. D. 1832 (prout same), together 'vith an-act of Congress passed
the 13th day of July, 1832 (prout), by tle seventh section of
which it was made the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury "to
cause the severainstalments, with the interest payable thereon, payable to the United States, in virtue of the said cofivention, to be
received from the Fre'nch government and transferred to the' United
States in such a manner as he may deem best, and the net proceeds
And also a letter of Edwardthereof to be paid into the treasury."
Livingston, Department of State, dated Washihgton, 8th"February,
183, to Nathaniel Niles,'Esq., Paris. (Prout same.)
And the counsel for tWe said plaintiffs requested the learned judge
to charge the jury,1. That the evidence in,the cause does not show a contract between the government and the bank for the sale of a bill of exchange, but an undertaking or the part.of the defendants, s the
agents of the plaintiff, to transfer to the United States the first instalment due under the treaty with France, and that the bill was
only one of the instruments for carrying the sakne into effect. And
further, that the question of agency is for the jury to decide.
2. That the act of Maryland of 1785, under whiibh the defendants claim damages, .does iot extend to the United States.
3. ' hat the bill in question; being drawn by one government upon
another, and upon a particular fund, is not a bill of exchange within
the legal meaning of the terms, and is not embraced by the. statute.
4. That ihe defendants, being indorsers of the bill, -and not the
holders or owners at the time of protest, are not entitled to the
damages, since, they have.not.paid them.
But the court refused to instruct the jury as requested by the
plaintiffs' counsel, and charged them as follows, to wit It'is admitted, ihat if this was a suit between individuals, and tbe

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

385

The United States v. The Bank of the, United States.

defendant was the actual owner of a bill of exchange drawn by the
plaintiff on a foreign country, and protested for non-payment, he
would be entitled to the damages now claimed by the bank ; 'but it
is contended, 1st, that the evidence in this cause does not show a
sale of the bill of exchange to the bank, but an agency on the part
of the bank to assist in procuring the transfer of the funds to the
United States. The whole of the evidence on this subject is in
writing, and therefore a matter of law, and,-in my opinion, establishes a clear and unequivocal- sale by the United States, and purchase and payment for the bill by the bank ; and that in the endeavours to collect it there was no other agency than always exists
between the owner and other parties to a bill of exrhange. Again,
it is said, that if this was a purchase of the bill by the bank, yet the
defendants cannot set off this claim, because the act Qf Marylandlof
1785 does, not extend to bills drawn by the government of the
United States. When the United States, by its authorized officer,
beeome a party to negotiable paper, they have all the rights, and
incu'r'all the responsibility, of individuals who are part'es to such
instrvinents ; there is no difference, except that the United Stites
cadnot be'sued ; and from the unavoidable use of commercial paper
by the United States, they are as much interested as the community at large in maintaining this principle.
OIn the present case, the United States do not sue for a debt due
to them as a government, but as stockholders or copartners for their
proportion of the profits accruing on the use of their nioney, which
they have invested in the stock of the corporation, and are to he
treated in all respects like any ordinary stockholder, who would be
bound to pay a debt due to the bank before he could sustain an
action for his dividends.
The remaining objections are, that if the Maryland act of 1785
does embrace bills drawn by government, then this, being a bill
drawn on a particular fund, is not a bill of exchange in the legal
meaning of the term ; and that if it is such a bill, the bank was not
the holder or owner of-it at the time of protest, and therefore is not
entitled to the damages given by the statute.
These questions appear to me*to ha#e been determined by the
Supreme Court of the United States in the present cause in favor
of the defendants; whether they were rightly determined, it is not
for us to inquire; that determination is-binding on us, and until reviewed by themselves must be considered the law of the land. If
I have mistaken their views on this, or erred in any other point of
the cause, it will be corrected by a refxamination of the case in that
court ; but a construction of their opinion, given by the jury, is-only
capable of being reexamined in this court, which may lead to a new
trial and lengthened litigation, to the disadvantage of all parties, as
it will undoubtedly be only finally determined in the court of the
voi,. v.
33

SUPREME COURT.

386
-The-United

States v. The Bank of tht United States.

last resort. This being, then, my view of the law, in my opinion
the defendants are entitled to the verdict.
And thereupon the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted.
The cause was argued by lfr. Clifford (the Attorney-General)
and M!r. .N'elson, for the United States, the plaintiffs in error, and by
•Mr. Sergeant, for the Bank.
Mr. Clifford assigned five causes of error, viz. 1st. That the bill upon which the damages in controversy are
claimed by the defendants in error, under the circumstances stated
in the record, is not a bill of exchange and embraced by the Maryland statute of 1785.
2d. That if a bill of exchange within the terms of that statute,
the statute does not extend to the United States, so as to render
'them liable to the payment of the fifteen per cent. damages claimed
by the defendants.
I 3d. That the evidence in the cause does not show a contract between the plaintiffs and the defendants -for the sale of a bill of exchange, but an undertaking on the part of the defendants, as the agents
of the government, to transfer to the -United States. the first instalment due under the treaty with the King of the French of the 4th
July, 1831, and that the bill in questibn was one of the instruments
for accomplishing that object.
4th. That the defendants, being indorsers of the bill, and not
owners or holders at the time of protest, are not entitled to damages, since they have not paid them.
5th. That there was error in the charge of the court below in
having instructed the jury that the defendants were entitled to their
verdict,- thus withdrawing from the consideration of the jury the
facts which they alone were competent to find.
After stating these points, the Attorney-General proceeded with
the argument.
The demand of the plaintiffs is not the subject of dispute. The
questions to be determined grow out of the set-off filed by the defendants. That claim had its origin in an unsuccessful attempt of the
Secretary of the Treasury, through the medium of-the Bank of the
United States, to transfer to this country the first instalment payable
to this government by France, under the convention of the 4th July,
1831. He proposed to discuss very briefly the several, points
taken in the bill of exceptions, at the last trial in the court below.
He had no doubt he might properly do so, notwithstanding the
cause was formerly before the court on a previous occasion, when
a decision was pronounced upon the points then presented under the
bill of exceptions at that term. See 2 Howard, 711: If it were
not apparent then, the facts now disclosed afford convincing proof,
that the record in the former cause was in many respects incom-

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

387

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

plete. Fortunately for both parties, the present record is sufficiently
full, and the exceptions broad enough, to open the whole merits of
the dispute, and to warrant the parties in submitting the cause to a
final decision.
1. He submitted first the proposition, that the evid'ence in the
cause dogs not show a contract between the plaintiffs and the defendants for the sale of a bill of exchange, but an undertaking on
the part of the defendants, as the agents of the government, to
transfer to the United States the first instalment due under the
treaty, and that the bill in question was one of the instruments for
accomplishing that object.
Whqtever the forms may have been, this was a public transactibn
between two sovereign independent nations, for the purpos e of carrying into effect a treaty stipulation. In this general, view the r6Jal
parties are,- Ist. The United States ; 2d. The government of
France ; 3d. The Bank of the United States, at that time the
fiscal agent of the government, and authorized and commissioned to
demand and receive irom France a certain fund, and to transfer the
same to this country. Such was the purpose. The instruments
executed were such as the President of the United States, the Secretary of the . Treasury, and the president 'of the bank deemed
sufficient, and best calculateUl to effect this object. Leaving out of
view the parties to the bill in London and Paris, and supposing it to
have been presented by the cashier of the bank, in whose favor it
was drawn, and protested for non-payment as in this case, but
without intervention, - which is the strongest view that can be taken
of the case for the bank, - still the letters, of the parties, and other
instruments executed at the date of the bill, would determine the
character of the contract. The act of Congress of the 13th July,
1832 (4 Statutes at Large, 574), 'made it "1the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to cause the several instalments, with the
interest thereon, payable to the United States, in virtue of the said
convention, to be received from the French government, and-transferred to the United States in such manner as he may deehfn best."
Congress conferred the power to cause the fund to be received and
transferred. Under this act the S&cretary had no right to deal in exchange, or even to draw a bill except as a means to accomplish the
purpose described in the act itself. The 8ecretary of the Treasury
took this view of the law in his letter to the president of the bank of
the 31st October, 1832. He commences by referring to the convention, and remarks, - "1The Secretary of the Treasury being
charged by the act of the 13th July last with transferring to th6
United States the several instalments receivable under the convention, I am desirous of effecting that object in such a manner as may
be most beneficial to the interests of the claimants for whom the
money is to be received, and with this view I shall be glad to'receive your suggestions in regard to the transfer of the first instal-

SUPREME COURT.

388

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

ment."

The bank was thus officially apprized of the convention

creating the fund to be transferred, and its attention specially directed to the act of Congress devolving that duty uporf the Secretary
of the Treasury. It was equally well advised, that the sole purpose of the head of that department was to effect the transfer of the
first instalment, in a manner most beneficial to the claimants. The
president of the bank, in his reply of the 5th of November, evidently
regarded the proposition as one invoking the agency of the bank.
He expresses himself as very willing to offer such suggestions as
occur to him, in regard to the transfer of the first instalment.
" After examining the subject in all its relations, with an anxiety to
make the transfer on such terms as would merely prevent a loss to
the bank," &c. Having given various suggestions, he concludes by
saying, that the bank "is influenced exclusively by the belief that
any other arrangement would be less advantageous to the treasury."
On the 26th January, 1833, the treasury department 'notify the
president of the bank of their readiness to -draw on the French
government for the first instalment payable under the convention.
On the 30th January, the reply, marked confidential, after assigning
reason for increasing the rate, adds, - "Without looking, therefore,
to any profit oi the'operation, but merely. with the expectation of inOn the 6th of February, the Secretary
curring no loss upon it."
of the Treasury accepts the terms. The bill was drawn on the
Being the
7th, and refers to the convention in these words : -"
amount of the first instalment to be paid to. the United States,
under the convention concluded between the 'United States and
France, of the 4th July, 1831 (after deducting the amount of the
first instalment to be reserved to France under the said convention),
and the additional sum of nine hundred and forty thousand francs,
being one year's interest at four per cent. on all the instalments payable to the United States, from the day of the exchange of the ratifications to the 2d February, 1833."
,Memorandum indorsed on the Bil.
Total amount of indemnity payable to th&United
fs.25,000,000 00
.
.
.
.
.
States,
Less amount of" indemnity to be reserved to
France,

1,500,000 00

.

23,500,000 00
One year's interest, from 2d Feb. 1832, to 2d
.
.
.
Feb. 1833, at 4 per cent.,
First instalment payable to the United States,
Amount of bill,

.

940,000 00
.3,916,666 66
4,856,666 66

On the same day the Presidenst-of the United States executed an
instrument in the nature of a power of attorney to the cashier of the
bank, authorizing him' or his assignee to receive the amount of the

JANUARY-TERM, 1847.

389

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

bill, and, on the receipt of the sum therein specified, to give full receipt and acquittance to the government of France for the first instalment. This instrument recites the convention creating the
fund, - the law, of Congress providing for its transfer, - the bill of
exchange as the means of effecting that object, -and, being in itself
a power of attorney, establishes the agency of the bank. Then follows the official despatch of the .Secretary of State of the 8th
February, advising the acting charg6 des affaires in Paris that the
bill had been drawn in favor of the cashier of the bank, and that it
was accompamed by a full power from the President of the United
States, authorizing and empowering him to give the necessary receipt and acquittance to the French government, according to the
provisions of the convention, and directing the charg des affaires
to apprize the French government of this arrangement.
The judge in the court below erred in refusing the first instruction prayed for on the part of the United States, and instructing as
he did. The agency appears.from, 1st. The act of Congress, "cause the several instalments to be received and transferred to the
United States." 2d. The letter of the Secretary of the Treasury of the 31st October, - I I am desirous of effecting that object"
(the transfer). 3d. The reply of the president of the bank, of the
5th November, in which he refers to the transfer, and speaks of a
bill as the means. 4. The subsequent letters following out the
idea, - C withgut looking, therefore, to any profit on the operation,
but merely with the expectation of incurring no loss." 5th. The
power of attorney from the President of the United States to the
cashier of the bank, to receive the money and execute a discharge.
6. The despatch froih the Secretary of State. These several instruments were legally admissible to explain and qualify the bill,
and constitute a part of the original contract between the parties.
Leeds v.Lancashire, 2 Camp. 205 ; Hartley v. Wilkinson, 4 A.
& S.25 ; Chitty and Hulme, 10th American, from 9th London ed.
140 ; Bayley on Bills, 17 ; Story on Bills, § 34. A bill may
be written in part on one paper and in part on another separate and
detached paper, if the memorandum on each be contemporaneous,
and both be designed to constitute but one entire contract. The
contract may thus be qualified, restrained, or enlarged. In one case
it is said the paper between the original' parties was but an agreement, while in the hands of an innocent holder it might become a
valid negotiable security. Bills of exchange and promissory notes,
like every other contract, are to be construed in such, a manner as
if possible to give effect to the intention of the parties. Chitty and
Hulme, 167.
2. The second proposition submitted. That the bill upon which
the damages in controversy are claimed by the defendants, under
the circumstances stated in the record, is not a bill of exchange and
embraced by the Maryland statute of 1785
33

-

890

SUPREME COURT.
The United States r. The Bank of the United States.

Supposing the bill in this case to be subject to the
same rules of
law as are made applicable to paper between persons dealing in exchange, still the defendants' claim cannot be sustained. The money
must be payable at all events, not dependent on any contingency,
either with regard to event, or with regard to the fund out of which
payment is to be made, or the parties by or to whom payment is to
be made. Chitty on Bills, 134 ; I Stephens's N. P. 777. The
writers upon the law of bills of exchange usually refer to a class of
cases to illustrate what is meant by a bill or note payable eventually
or upon condition, each of them instancing some few of the cases
which have been presented for judicial determination. The principle is well stated in Carlos v. Fancourt, 5 T. R. 482, by Mr.
Justice Ashhurst and Lord Kenyon :-" Unless they carry their
own validity on the face of them, they are not negotiable." "It would
perplex the commercial transactions of mankind, if paper securities
of this kind were issued out into the world encumbered with conditions and contingencies, and if the .persons to whom they were
offered in negotiation were obliged to inquire when these uncertain
events would probably be reduced to -a'certainty." Courts best
promote the interest of a mercantile community by adhering strictly
to the rules implied in the definition-of a bill of exchange, rejecting
every coitingency. Before proceeding to discuss the contingency
appearing on the face of the bill in this case, it is proper to state the
nature of the contract of the drawer of a bill. " The drawing of a
bill of exchange implies, on the part of the drawer, an undertaking
to the payee, and to every other person to whom the bill may be
afterwards transferred, that the drawee is a person capable of making
himself responsible for the due payment thereof ; that he shall, upon
due presentment, if applied to for the purpose, express in writing
upon the face of the bill an acceptance or undertaking to pay the
same when it shall become payable ; 'that be, the acceptor, shall pay
the same when it becomes payable, upon due presentment thereof
for that purpose ; and that if the drawee shall not accept it when so
presented, or shall not so pay it woen it becomes payable, and the
payee or other holder shall give him '/he drawer, due notice thereof,
then he will pay the sum or amount stated in the bill to the payee
or other holder, together with such damages as the law prescribes
Story on Bills, § 121.
or allcdws in such cases' as an indemnity."
These are general principles, but every general prinacipld has its
exceptioni. It appears on the face of the instrument in this case,
that it was drawn by the Secretary of the Treasury, on behalf of
the United States, upon the Minister and Secretary of State for the
Department of Finance of the gavernment of France, to secure the
fulfilment of a treaty stipulation. The answer of the officer of the
French government, to whom the bill was presented for payment,
as stated in the protest, shows the contingency ; he answered, "that having had the orders of the Minister and Secretary of State

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

391

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

for the Department of Finance, be is instructed to say, that diplomatic treaties which impose engagements on -the French treasury,
to be discharged, do not become obligatory upon it until the Chambers have sanctioned the financial dispositions which are therein
embraced ; therefore, the treaty concluded with the United States
not being yet sanctioned by the legislature, the Minister of Finance
cannot at preserit make any payment to avail upon the olligations
contracted by the said treaty."
Suppose a bill to have been drawn
by a citizen of France on the treasury of the United States. The'
federal constitution provides, - " No money shall be drawn from
the treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law."
A bill drawn upon the treasury is subject to the contingency of that
provision, as much so as if the provision itself were incorporated, into
the bill ; and would it be said, that the drawer contracted against
that provision, or that the appropriation had been made when Congress had not assembled ? * Hence it has been decided in Reeside
v. Knox, 2 Wharton, 233, that every bill drawn upon government
is drawn upon a fund. A public officer may doubtless draw or
receive bills to facilitate the business of his department, but he
would transcend his power did he attempt to pledge the responsibility of the government as a merchant or banker.
As to what is contingent, or conditional. " The payment of a
bill must not rest on any contingency, except the failure of the general personal credit of he person drawing or negotiating the instrument." 3 Kent, 76. "1The sum to be paid must not only be in
money, and certain in amount, but it must be payable absolutely
- and at all events.
If it be payable out of a particular fund only, or
upon an event which is contingent, or if it be otherwise conditional,
it-is not in contemplation of law a bill of exchange, or in its essential character negotiable." Story oii Bills, §§ 55, 56. Other cases
illustrating what is a contingency or condition :- A note promising
to pay plaintiff or order on demand a certain sum, or to surrender
the body of A. B. Smith v. Boheme, 3 Lord Raym. 67. A
promise to pay T. Al. so much money, if my brother doth not.pay
it within such a time. Atplbby v. -Biddolph, cited in 8 Mod. 363.
I, John Conner, promise to pay to John Ferris or his order fifty
pounds; signed John Conner, or else Henry Bond. Ferris v.
Bond, cited in Bayley on Bills, 17, and in Stephens's N. P. 777.
We promise to pay A. B. ai.
certain sum on the death of C. D.,
provided he leaves either of us sufficient to pty the said sum, or if
he shall be otherwise able to pay it. Roberts v. Peake, 1 Burr. 323.
A promise to pay within so many days after the defendant should
marry. Beardesley v. Baldwin, 2 Stra. 1151. Out of my growing
subsistence. Josselyn v.Lacier, 10 Mod: 294. Out of the fifth
*Ag to the law governing the contract, see Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 329;
McCracken v. Hayward, 2 ibid. 612.

392

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

payment when it should become due. Haydock v. Lynch, 2 Lord
Raym. 1563. Out of A. B.'s money, as soon as he should receive
it. Dawkes v. De Lorane, 3 Wilson, 207. Out of moneys in A.
B.'s hands belonging to the proprietors of the Devonshire mines,
being part of the consideration-money for the purchase of the manor
of West Buckland. Jenny v. Herle, 1 Sirs. 591, 592 ; 2 Lord
Raym. 1361. On the sale or produce immediately when sold of
the White Hart, St. Albans, and the goods, &c. Hill v. Halford,
2 Bos. & Pul. 413. Pay A. B. one month after date two hundred
pounds, on account of freigh, of the Veale Galley. Banbury v.
isset, 2- Stra. 1211. Borrowed and received of A. B. in three
drafts by C. D. payable to us, which we promise to pay unto the
said A. B. with interest. ,Williamson v. Burndtt, 2 Camp. 417.
Being the amount of the purchase-money for a quantity of fir belonging to D. H. and then lying in the parish of Fillingham. Upon
the note was the followitng indorsement :
1 This note is given on
"condition that, if any dispute shall arise between Lady Wray and
D. H. respecting the sale of the within-mentiond- fir, then the note
to be void." Hartley v. Wilkinson, 4 Camp. 127. On demand,
we promise to pay to A. B. or his order a certain sum, for value
received in stock of ale, brewing-vessels, &c., this being intended
to stand against me, the undersigned C. D., as a set-off for that
sum left me in my father's will above my sister's share. Clarke v.
Percival, 2 Barn. & Adolph. 660. Out of my half-pay, addressed
to a navy agent. Stevens v. Hill, 5 Espin. N. P. C. 247. An
order to pay. one thousand dollars, or what might be due after deducting all'advances and expenses. Cushman v. Haynes, 20 Pick.
132. A promise to pay a certain sum provided the ship Mary
arrives at a European port of discharge free from capture and
condemnation by-the British. Coolidge v. Ruggles, 15 Mass. 387.
The sum must be certain, not susceptible of contingent or indefinite
additions ; therefore, in the case of an instrument promising to pay
A. B. the sum of sixty-five pounds, with lawful interest for the same,
and all other sums which should be due to him, Lord Ellenborough
held that it was not a promissory note even for the sixty-five pounds.
Smith v. Nightingale, 2. Stark. 375. I promise to pay, with interest at five per cent. I also promise to pay the demands of the
sick club at H. in part of interest, and the remaining stock an'd
interest to be paid on demand. Bolton v. Dugdale, 4 Barn. &
Adolph. 619. Nor to indefinite and contingent deductions. Thus,
where the defendant promised to pay four hundred pounds to the
representatives-. of A. B., first deducting thereout any interest or
money A. B. might owe t6 defendant. Barlow v. Broadhurst,
4 Moore, 471. An order payable, provided the terms mentioned in certain letters written by the drawer were complied
with. Kingston v. Long, cited in Bayley on Bills, 14. At thirty
days after the arrival of the ship Paragon at Calcutta, pay this

J'ANUARY TERM,

1847.

393

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

my first of exchange to the order of A. B. Palmer v. Pratt.
2 Bing. 185.
3. rhe third p6int submitted. That if a bill of exchange within
the terms of the statute of 1785, that statute does not extend to
the United States, so as to render them liable to the payment of
the fifteen per cent. damages claimed by the defendants.
The words of the act of Maryland are, -" 1 That upon all bills
of exchange hereafter drawn in this State, .on any person, corporation, company, or society in any foreign country, and regularly
protested, the owner or holder of such bill, or the person or persons, company, society, or corporation entitled to the same, shall
have the right to receive and recover so much current money as
will purchase a good bill of exchange of the same time of pay-.
ment, and upon the same -place, at the current exchange of such
bills, and also fifteen per cent. damages upon the value of the principal sum mentioned in such bill, and costs of protest, together
with legal interest upon the value of the principal mentioned in
such bill from the time of protest until the principal and damages
are paid and satisfied."
The United States are not named in this
act, and it therefore does not extend to them. The king shall not
be bound by a statute, whether affirmative or negative, which does
not expressly name him ; yet if there be equivalent words, or if the
prerogative be included by necessary implication, it would seem to
admit of a different construction. 2 Dwarris, 670; Com. Dig.
voce Parliament,B. 3, 8; Murray v. Ridley, 3 Har. & McHen.
171 ; Contee v. Chew, 1 Har. & Johns. 417 ; State v. Bank of
Maryland, 6 Gill & Johns. 226 ; The King v. Wright, I Adolph.
& Ellis, 434 ; 3 Coke's Reports, -Part V. 14 b, 26 ; 6 ibid.,
Part XI. 70 b, 132 ; The King v. Archbishop of Armagh, 8
Mod. 8 ; 1 Stra. 516. As analogies -- A statute of limitation's does
not run against a State, unless it is expressly named. Lindsey v.
Iiller, 6 Pet. 666 ; State v. Arledge, 2 Bailey, 401 ; Weatherhead v. Bledsoe, 2 Overton, 352 ; People v. Gilbert, 18 Johns.
227; State Treasurer v. Weeks, 4.Vermont R. 215; Stoughton
v. Baker, 4 Mass. R. 522-528; Nimmo v. Commonwealth, 4
Hen. & Munf. 57 ; Bayley v. Wallace, 16 Serg. & Rawle, 254 ;
Commonwealth v.Baldwin, I Watts, 54; Wallace v. Mercer, 6
Ham. 366. A statute of limitations does not affect the United
States. United States v. Hoar, 2 Mason, 311.
4. That the defendants, being indorsers of the bill, and not
owners or holders at the time of protest, are not entitled to damages, since they have not paid them.
The act of Maryland, after the words recited under the last
point, reads thus :- II And if any indorser of such bill shall pay to
the holder, or the person or persons, company, society, or corporation entitled to the same, the value of the principal and the damages and interest as aforesaid, such indorser shall have a right to

394

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank .of the United States.

-

receive-and recover -the sum paid,,with legal interest upon the same,
from the drawer, or any other person or persons, company' society,
or corporation liable to such indorser on such bill of exchange."
Messrs. Hottinguer,. by paying the bill supra protest for the honor
of the bank, became jndorseps, and acquired all- the rights- and
were entitled to all the'remedies against the bank and prior parties
which the holder had, whom they paid without any indqrsement or
formal traiisfer of .the bill. 'These rights they might have asserted
to their full extent, or they were at-liberty to limit and narrow
them. -Chitty dud Hulme, 509 ; Mertens v. Winnington, 1 Esp.
R. 112. They became 'the holders as indorsees b.y the law merchant. • Konig v. Bayard, 1 Pet. 250. An acceptor for the honor
of an indorser is, after payment by him, the bolder. Bayley on
Bills, 339 ; and he refers to Louviere v. Laubray, 10 Mod. 36,
-as authority.. 'See also Story on Bills, §§, 124, 125 ; Byles
on Bills, 83. Chancellor Kent says, - "If he takes up the bill
for'the honor of the-indorser, he stands in the right of an indorsee paying full Value for the bill, and 'has the same remedies to
which an indorsee would be entitled against all- prior parties." 3
Kent, 87; Mutford v, Walcot, 1 Lord Raym. 574; Cox v.
Earle, 3 Bath; & Aid. 430; Alvord -v. Baker, 9 Wend. 323;
Schimmblpen'ch' v. Bayard, 1 Pet. 264. As illustration : -A
person:who accepts. for. honor' is only liable if be original drawee,
do not pay, 'and to charge such acceptor there-must be a present;
ment for payment to' such origmal drawee. Hoare v. Cazenov'e,
16 East, 391.; :Williams v. Germaine, 7 Barn. & Cres. 468;
Bayley on Bills,- 159. See also Ex parte Wackerbarth, 5 Yes.
574; Ex parte Lambert; 13 Ves.' 179 . Vandewall v. Tyrrell, 1
Moody.'& Malk. 87. Messrs. Hottinguer *ere therefore in no
sense agents of .th bank,)btit became ex vi termini the holders of
the bill.- If they. were 'the. holders' in the legal sense, then the
bank at the time held only the character of indorsers ; they were
the surdties of the drawer.
Story on Bills,, §§ 108, 120.
The bank" did not pay the fifteen per cent. -damages to Messrs.
Hottinguer, therefore they cannot claim them from the United
• tatesi
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States sued the Bank of the United States for a
dividend on itocks held by the government in the bank, and the
defendant pleaded--and relied in defence on a set-off, being the
.damages claimed .by the defendant of fifteen per cent. on a protested draft in the form of a bill of exchange, drawn by the government of the United States on the government of France, for a
sum of money due from 'the latter government to the former, by
treaty stipulations, to obtain possession of which the draft was
'dtawn. The bank was the payee and original holder. The

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

395

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

holders at the time of protest (Messrs. Rothschilds of Paris) caused
it to be protested for non-payment ; and Hot'inguer & Co. intervened immediately after, and took up the draft for the honxor of
the bank. The corporation refunded to Hottinguer & Co. the
amount advanced, including interest and charges, together with one
half per cent. commissions, and thus again became possessed of the
draft.
The Circuit Court, on a former trial, held that the damages
claimed as a set-off depended on a statute of Maryland of 1785 ;
that by the statute the holder at the time of protest alone could demand damages from any previous party to a hill, and that if he
failed to do so, and recovered less from any previous indorser, the
latter could only recover the amount actually paid (with interest and
charges accruing subsequently) from the drawer ; and therefore the
bank could set up no claim by force of the statute of Maryland,
taking its own assumption to be true, that this was a legal bill of exchange, and properly subject to protest. This instruction altogether rejected the defence relied on, and the jury found for the plaintiffs ; and from that decision the defendants prosecuted a writ of
error to this court. When the cause came- before us in 1844
(2 Howard, 711), this single question was presented for our determination ; nor could this court decide any other question ; and such
was the unanimous opinion of the court,.although the judges then
present differed as regarded ti true construction of the .statute of
Maryland ; the majority holding the construction of the Circuit
Court to have been erroneous, and that the bank, as payee, on
taking'up the draft from Hottinguer & Co., had the same right to
demand damages under the statute that the holder had at the time
of protest. The court, however, when giving its opinio'n, threw
out some suggestions on the structure of the bill; first remarking,
that, "before we consider the rulings of the court excepted to,
it may not be improper to notice the structure of the bill, which has
been much commented on by the counselthough, not having be6n
excepted to by the government, it is not a matter for debisiodi."
The instruction given cut off every other question the government
might'have raised in opposition to the set-off claimed ; and as this
court, when acting as a court of errors, can only legitimately revise
the questions of law that have been raised and deGided in the Circuit Courts, it must of necessity, on a second. writ of error being
prosecuted, have power to revise such rulings of the court below on
the second trial as affect the merits of the controversy, and to pass
on the questions not previously presented, as open questions, in the
particular cause. However high the regard of judges that did not
cqneur may be for the views entertained'and expressed by other
judges, on a question of law not brought up for decision, still it is
impossible to recognize such views as binding authority, consistently
with the due administration of justice ; as by doing so the merits of

.396

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

the controversy might be forestalled, without proper examination.
We therefore feel ourselves at liberty to treat of the structure and
.character of the instrument before us as an open question. And
so, also, we deem the question open, whether the statute of Maryland subjected to protest and damages a government. The statute
provides, -" 1 That upon all bills of exchange hereafter drawn in
this State on any person, corporation, company, or society in any
foreign country, and regularly protested, the owner'or holder of such
bill shall have a right to so much money as will purchase a good bill
of the same time of payment, and upon the same place, at the current rate of exchange of such bills ; and also fifteen per cent: damages upon the value of the principal sum mentioned in such bill,
with costs of protest, together with legal interest," &c. The
United States refunded to the bank, on the return of the draft, the
principal sum, tcgether with all the charges actually incurred by the
bank, and the interest accruing from the date of drawing to the time
when the money was refunded; but refused to pay the fifteen pez
cent. damages claimed by the bank. This refusal was not founded
on the true construction of the Maryland statute ; the government
insisting it had no application to the transaction, but that the drawing was of nation upon nation, and not governed by the law merabhant ; ahd that the form of one of the instruments making up the
transaction did not and could not alter its character or legal effect,
so as to bring it within the law merchant. That the government
was only bound to do equity to the bank to the extent of the amount
refunded to Tottinguer & Co. "And these conflicting assumptions
make up the question we are now called on to determine, as will be
seen by referring to the third and fourth instructions asked to be
given to the jury, on part of the plaintiffs, on the second trial ; they
are as follows :"13. That the b5ill in question, being drawn by one government
upon another, and upon a particular fund, is not a bill of exchange
within the legal meaning of the terms, and is not embraced by the
statute.
" 4. That the defendants, being indorsers of the bill, and not
the holders or owners at the time of protest, are not entitled to the
damages, since they have not paid them."
Being refusedi-the judge stated .to the jury, that " these questions appear to me to have been determined by the Supreme Court
of the United States in the present cause in favor of the defendants "; and further remarking, that, " if I am mistaken in their
views on this, it will be corrected by a regxamination of the cause
in that court."
That the judge was mistaken'as regarded the questions arising on
the third instruction, we have already stated ; but in regard to the
fourth instruction, the charge was proper, as the question presented
by it had been decided.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847."

397

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

Suppose, then, a bill'of exchange could be drawn by the goveriment of Maryland, or by the government of the Uiited States in
this District, as the successor of Maryland, on the govermment of
France ; would the statute of Maryland give damages to a holder in
case the bill was dishonored by France, and formally protested ?
The statute provideg for damages upon all foreign bills drawn in that
State, "1on any person, corporation, company, or society."
Is the government of France either a person, corporation, company, or society, within the meaning of the act . If it is, and was
indebted, and could be drawn on and protested, then it follows that
the drawer of the bill (in such an instance as this), on taking it up
and paying the damages, could lawfully deinand from France, as
drawee, the damages paid, and rightfully enforce the demand by the
sword, if payment was refused ; as the demand would be a perfect
right, and this the uhimate remedy. In our opinion, Maryland, by
her act of 1785, never contemplate.d, the idea that a foreign government shouldbe subject to be drawn upon by bills of exchange, and
to protest and damages as incidents, like individual persons, or
trading companies, or corporations ; but that the statute had reference to the latter only ; and that therefore this bill, on its face, "is
not embraced by the statute," in the language of the rejected instruction.
The second consideration arising on the instruction involves the
structure and character of the instrument, not so much in form, as
in substance ; for the name of the instrument cannot change its
nature and character. The draft was drawn by one government on
another, and of necessity accompanied by other documents, and
the question is, was it a negotiable bill of excange, in the legal
meaning of the terms. The Circuit Court held that it was ; and.
this is the-prominent legal point in the cause, or at least has been so
treated at the bar, and on which this court has bestowed much consideration.
A bill of exchange is an instrument governed by the commercial
law ; it must carry on its face its authority to command the money
drawn for, so that the hojder, or the notary, acting as his agent, may
receive the money, and give a discharge, on presenting the bill and
receiving payment.; or, if payment is refused,. enter%a protest, from
which follows the incident of damages. But if no demand can be
made on the bill standing alone, and it depends on other papers or
documents to give it force and effect, and these must necessarily
accompany the bill and be presented with it, it cannot be a
simple bill of exchange, that circulates from hand to hand, as the
representative of current cash.
The draft in question was drawn for 4,856,666.66 francs ; being
moneys owing and shortly to become due from France to the United
States, according to a treaty stipulation; and these facts are distinctly set forth on the face of the draft, and by indorsements on it.
VOL. v.

34

398

SUPRE-ME COURT.
The United States -. The Bank of the United States.

The paper was signed by fhe Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States, and addressed to the Minister and Secretary of State for
the Department of Finance of the kingdbm of France, and was
payable to the order of Samuel Jahdon, cashier, &c. The mere
signature of our Secretary of the Treasury dould not be recognized
by the French government as conferring-authorit" on the holder to
demand payment. The transaction being one ol natiori with nation,
he who demanded payment must have had'not only the authprity of
this nation before he could have approached the French goverrment, but that authority must have been communicated by the head
of this government through the proper department carrying on out
national intercourse, which was the State Department. - Accordingly, ,of even date with the draft (7 February, 183 ), an instrunmeit
was drawn up reciting the fact of indebtment, and cause -thereof ; the amount due ; the authority conferred by -an act o'f Congress
on the Secretary of the Treasury to apply for the money in such
manner as he might deem best; the fact and manner of drawing for
it . and then comes the official authority to the payee to'receive the
money, in these terms : " Now, therefore, be it known, that I, Andrew Jackson, President of the United States, do ratify and confirm, and approve the
drawing of the said bill by the Secretary of the Treasury aforesaid,.
and do hereby authorize the said Samuel Jaudon, or his assignee of
the said bill, to receive the amountthereof; and on receipt of the sum
therein mentioned, to gire full receipt and acquittance to the government of France for the said first instalment, and the interest due on
all the instalments, payable on the said second day of February, by
virtue of the said convention ; and I, Andrew Jackson, President
as aforesaid, do hereby ratify and confirm all that may be lawfully
done in the premises.
"In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand, at
the city of Washington, the seventh day of February, in
[L. s.] the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, and
of the independence of the United States of America the
fifty-seventh.
ANDREW JACKSON,
"By the President:

EDW. LIvINGSTON,
Secretary of. State."

This accompanied the draft, and was placed in the hands of the
payee, and no doubt passed through the hands of the different indorsees. ',Still, neither the power more than the draft could be. presented
to the French government by a mere individual who was holder, or
by a notary public, and therefore, on the next day after the draft and
power bear date, the Secretary of Stati of our government addressed a despatch to. our chargg d'affaires and representative at
the French court, in the following terms

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

399

The United States v. The Bank of. the United States.

" Department of State, Washington, 8th February, 1833.
"Nathaniel Niles, Esq., Paris.
," SiR:- The Secretary of the Treasury, in conformity with the.
provision of a law of the last session of Congress, yesterday drew a
bill upon the Minister of State and Finance of the French government, for the first instalment and ihe" interest thereupon, and for the
interest upon the remaining instalments ; which interest is stipulated
to be paid by that government to this in twelve months from the
date of the exchange of the ratification of the late convention between the United States and his Majesty the King of the. French.
The bill is drawn in favor of Samuel'Jaudon, cashier of the 'Bank
of the United States, or order, and will go accompanied., to te
assignee thereof in France, by a, full power from the President,
authorizing and empowering him, upon- the due payment- of the
same, to give the ne&essary receipt and acquittance to the French
government, according to the provision of the convention referred to.
"You will take an early opportunity, therefore, to apprize the
French government of this arrangement.
"I am' Sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
,wDw.

LIVINGSTON."

Until the French government was thus officially advised, the bill
and accompanying power combined were valueless in the hands of
the -holder, as against France.
It follows, as we suppose, from the chracter of the -drawer and
the drawee, and the nature of the fund drawn upon, that this transaction could not be governed by the commercial law; much less by
a statute of Maryland, which happened to be in force in the District
of Columbia, where the draft was drawn.,
But it is insisted, and with much plausibility, that as between
the bank as payee, and the United States as drawer, no such objections can be alleged by the United States ; they having assumed
the draft to be a bill of exchange) and ddalt with- it as commercial
paper, are bound by the assumption. Still, the question meets us,
that no form of draft could. authorize a legal demand upon the
drawee (France) on the face of the draft. So far from being A
simrle paper, carrying its authority to receive the money with it, the
parties now before the court conceded, at the time the drawing tgok
place, by obtaining the power, that the right to 'receive the roney
did mainly depend, and must depend, on the power signed -by the
President, and countersigned by the Secretary of Stat&, with the
seal of the United States attached, and the communication of the
facts in official form, and through the proper channel, to the government of France, that is, through its-Department of Foreign
Affairs.. These were- the conditions and contingencies with which
the draft was encumbered. They were legal consequences, apparent

400

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

on its face, and are yet more apparent by the accompanying facts
that took place at the time of drawing.
Again. This controversy is between the .original parties ; the
law governing the dealing, each was bound to know ; the facts they
did know equally well ; and if a mutual mistake was made in supposing that a negotiable commercial instrument could be founded on
our claim against France, this mistake cannot change the commercial law, which in our opinion could not be made to apply to
the subject-matter of drawing, nor in any form of instrumentfounded on .the subject-matter.
The principal argument adduced to sustain the set-off claimed is
founded on tire fact, that by an act of Congress the' Secretary of the
Treasury had a discretion to adopt any appropriate means to obtain
the money, and that a bill of exchange was an appropriatd means.
To this assumption it may be answered, that France was not bound
by the act of Congtess, but by the treaty ; it stipulated, " that the
indemnity of twenty-five millions of francs should be paid, in six
annual instalments, into the hands of such person or persons as
should be authorized to receive it." We repeat that this aathority was to come from our government to the French government ;
was to pass through the Department of State here, and through the
Department of Foreign Affairs there, and thus only could it reach
she Minister of Finance, Al. Humann. Our Secretary of the
Treasury could not communicate with the Minister of Finance, nor
with any other functionary of the French government, and therefore
the bill drawn by Mr. McLane on M. Humann, standing alone,
was idle as waste paper, notwithstanding the at .of Congress, in so
far as the French government was concerned. Nor had M. Humann any power to pay the money, had it been in the treasury,
until instructed to do so by the Department of Foreigin Affairs.
1. For these reasons, we are of opinion that the question on the
structure of the bill is an open question, because for the first' time
presented to this court for decision.
2. That the statute of Maryland, of 1785, in its terms, does not
embrace a bill of exchange drawn on a foreign government.
3. That a bill of exchange in form, drawn by one government on
another, as this was, is not, and cannot be, g'overned by the law
merchant ; and that therefore it is not subject to protest and conseIquential damages.
And on these grounds we order that the juagment of the Circuit
Court be reversed, and that the cause be. remanded to that court
for another trial thereof, on the principles stated in this opinion.
Mr'. Chief Justice TANEY filed the following memorandum:
The Phief Justice withdrew from the bench in the argument of
-this case, having given an official opinion, when he was AttorneyGeneral of the United States, against the claim made by the

JANUARY TERM, 18.47.

401

The United States v. The Bank of. the United States.

bank, and concurring altogether with the above opinion given by
the court.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of the court. No point is made in
this case which was not elaborately discussed and substantially ruled
in the same case, reported in 2 Howard, 711. It is true, the structure of the bill, and the liability of the government to the damage.s
claimed, not being points made in the former bill of exceptions,
were not authoritatively adjudged. But these points were so connected with the construction of the Maryland statute, the question
then before the court, that neither the counsel nor the court could
escape their consideration. No other instrument than a foreign.bill
of exchange is embraced by the statute, and if the governmenf-be
not liable to damages on a protested bill, no decision could have
been given against it.
The points were as fully and as ably-argued then, as they have
been at the piesent term. The addition of one learned counsel at
the bar is the only change in the advocates. But the changes on
the bench show the uncertainty of life, and the emptiness of human
hopes. Two judges, distinguished for their great learning and
ability, who participated in the former judgment, have gone to their
account ; ill health causes the absence of another, and the opiniong
of the two now present remain unchanged. We submit, as we are
bound to do, to the views of our four learned associates who now
decide this case.
It is insisted that the bank did not purchase the bill of exchange
from the government, but acted as its agent, using the bill as an
instrument through which to perform its agency.
By the fifteenth section of its charter the bank, when required by
the Secretary of the Treasury, was bound "to give the necessary
facilities for transferring the public funds from place to place within
the United States or Territories, without charge." But this duty
was limited to transfers within the Union, and lid not extend to
foreign countries,
The correspondence between the. Secretary of the Treasury and
the president of the bank, in relation to this bill, shows a purchase
of it by the bank. In his first letter to the bank, dated the 31st of
October, 1832, the Secretary of the Treasury states the amount
due under the French treaty ; that it was made his duty to have the
amount transferred to the United ,States, and the views of Mr.
Biddle as to the mode of transfer were solicited. In his answer
Mr. Biddle says, -" The- simplest form would be the sale of a bill
on Paris drawn by the Secretary of the Treasury" ; that "the
bank has already in Paris a larger sum than it has any immediate
use for, yet it is not indisposed to increase it, because it may hereafter hav-e occasion for the fund, and because it is believed that, if
34 *

402

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

the terms can be made acceptable, the purchase of the whole by
the bank would be the best operation for. the government." The
rates of exchange are then stated, and a proposition to purchase the
bill at a certain per cent.
On.the 26th of January ensuing, the Secretary says he is ready
to draw the bill, and adds, -1 I presume the bank is still disposed to
purchase, and on the terms offered in your letter of the 5th of November." And also he says, - " It is desirable that the credit be
given to the treasurer by, the bank, on receiving the bill."
To this letter Mr. Biddle replies, that the rate of exchange has
declined between England and France, and that the bank could not
take the bill on the terms at first proposed. On the 6th of Februhry the new terms were accepted, and on the following day the bill
was transmitted, and its proceeds were placed on the books of the
bank to the credit of the government.
These facts show a proposal to sell the bill by the Secretary, and
an agreement to purchase it by the bank at a certain per cent.; that.
the bill was drawn and forwarded to the bank, and that for the
amount of it a credit was entered to the government. In the face
of these statements, which show a purchase of the bill beyond all
doubt, it is extraordinary that the fact should be controverted.
It is contended that the bill, "under the circumstances stated in
the record, is not a bill of exchange, and isnot embraced by the
Maryland statute of 1785."
The Secretary of the Treasury proposed to sell a bill of exchange
to the bank, and the bank agreed to purchase a bill. On its face it
is called a bill of exchange, and it was negotiated as such by the'
bank to Baring, Brothers, & Co., of London, and by them to N. M.
Rothschild, who indorsed it to Messieurs D. Rothschild, Brothers,
of Paris. When the bill became due, a demand of payment was made
on the drawee, and a protestbt'or non-payment, which was followed
by due notice to the drawer. The government-paid the cost of protest
and other expenses t.o
the bank, and also the commissions charged
by Hottinguer & Co., who took up the bill, supra protest, as the
agents of the bank ; but the fifteen per cent. damages given by the
Maryland statute were refused. And in a letter to the Secretary
of the Treasury, the Attorney-General says, -" I have carefully examined the claims presented by the Bank of the United States, on
account of the protest of the bill of exchange drawn by you on the
French government," &c. " The account," he says, "stated by
'the bank, if supported by proper vouchers, appears to be correct,
with the exception of the claim of fifteen per cent. damages on the
amount of the bill."
But now it seems that these eminent civilians and bankers were
ignorant of the legal import of this instrument, - men who had been
all their lives conversant with bills of exchange, and who bad used
them in their moneyed operations annually, to an amount equal to, if

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

4Q3

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

not greater than, the revenue of this government. Yet these men, the
richest and most experienced bankers in the 'world, were mistaken
in calling and' treating this papei as a bill of exchange. . Arid the
government, too, were reprehensible for paying the costs of protest,
for such costs could be charged only on a bill of exchange.
Against all this knowledge, experience, and action, it is no v contended that the paper is a mere assignment, or any thing else thaD a
bill of exchange. That designation is repudiated, not the less zeal,
ously for having been the result of second thought.
But what are the new lights shed upon this question ?
Two documents are found in the present record, which were not
before the court at the former argument ; and these, it is said, have
a material bearing on the case. The first is a letter dated 8th Febmary, 1833, from the Secretary of State to Mr. Niles, our chrrgi
d'affaires at Paris, informing.him that a bill had- been dra~vn on the
French government for the first instalment and interest under the
treaty, in favorof Samuel Jaudon, cashier of the Bank of the United
States, and requesting that notice should be given of the arrangement to the French government.
This is nothing more than a letter of advice,.which usually precedes a bill of exchange, of which the payee in this instance had no
knowledge. It, however, conduces to show the nature of the transaction, as not only the substance of a bill of exchange was regarded,
but also its form and accompaniment.
The other document was under the seal of the Uhited States,
and signed by the President and Secretary of State. It.stated the
substance of the treaty ; the act of Congress authorizing the Secretary
of the Treasury to have the instalments, as they became due, transferred to the United States ; and that the Secretary had drawn a
"1bill on the Minister and Secretary of State for the-Department of
Finance of the French government, payable at sight, for four millions
eight hundred and fifty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-six francs
and sixty-six centimes, being the amount of the first-instalment, payable to the United States, under the said convention, on the second
of the present month of February, and of the interest which is payable at the same time ; which bill is payable to Samuel Jaudon,"
&c., and the President ratifies the act of drawing the bill, 'and the
receipt which shall be given, &c.
Now this paper is supposed to take away from the bill of exchange
its character as a commercial instrument. It can have no other
effect than to show that the Secretary had authority to draw the bill.
It was no part of the bill of exchange, and indeed was not necessary
to its nogotiability. The indorsement- of Jaudon implied an undertaking that he was the cashier of the bank, and that the bill was
genuine and would be paid. No one can doubt that the payment
of the money by the French government on the bill, without any
additional evidence, would have been good, The bill upon its face

404

SUPREME C OURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United: States.

was perfect, and authorized the holder to receive and receipt for-the
money.
At most, the document can only be considered as authenticating
the law under which the Secretary acted in drawing the bill. And
this was all that the French government, under any circumstances,
could require. But suppose this paper was a power of attorney,
signed by the President, authorizing the Secretary to draw the bill;
would that change or in any way affect its commercial character ?
Any pe'rson may draw, accept, or indorse a bill by his agent. A
partner may indorse for the firm. And this authority may be by
parol or writing not under seal. So a corporation may draw by its
agent. Banks are in the constant practice of.drawing bills through
their cashiers. And has it eve" been supposed, that, if evidence accompanied or was attached to the bill of the authority of the drawer, it
impaired its commercial properties ? Mr. Chitty says, in his Treatise
on Bills (p. 27), - " Where a bill is not signed by the party himself,
the party taking it must first satisfy himself that the agent had power
so to act for the supposed principal." In the case of the East India
.Company v. Tritton, 3 Barn. & Cres. 280, three bills upon the
East India Company were payable to Hope or order; they got into
possession of Card, who indorsed them for Hope. Card had a
power of attorney from Hope, but it was not sufficient to warrant
these indorsempnts. This power being seen by the holders of the
bill, they were bound by it, as having notice of its extent.
But a bill drawn by an agent, under a power, was never supposed
to be less a bill than if it had been drawn by the principal. And in
such cases the assignee has only to satisfy himself that the drawer
acted under a proper authority. This no more vitiates the bill, than
evidence of the genuineness of the signature of the drawer. "The
bill in question was complete upon its face, and it is inconceivable
to me how the paper signed by the President can affect it.
In the argument it is supposed that, in drawing this bill, the gbvernment acted in its sovereign capacity. The idea of attaching
sovereignty to all the agencies of the government, however exercised, is as novel as it is unconstitutional. Covet every transaction
of the agents of the government by the attributes of its sovereignty,
and a despotism, characterized jby the grossest acts of injustice and
oppression must result.
A bill of exchange derives all its properties from the commercial
law. It is a most convenient instrument for the transfer of funds
from one country to another. And its chief and oily value, in this
respect, arises from the legal principles with which it is invested,
and which regulate the duties and liabilities of those who become
parties to it. In negotiating such an instrument, the governfnent
does not act in its sovereign capacity. It becomes subject, like
all -other parties to the bill, to the commercial principles which
govern it.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

405

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

In the case of the United States v. Administratrix of Barker, 12
Wheat. 559, it was held, that " whenever the government of the,
United States, through its lawfully authorized agents, becomes the
holder of a bill of exchange, it is bound to use the same diligence in
order to charge the indorser as in a transaction between individuals."
And in that case the indorser was held to be -discharged by the
negligence of the government. And again, in the United States v.
Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters, 392, the court say, -I "When the
United States, by its authorized officer, become a party to negotiable
paper, they have all the rights and incur all the responsibility of individuals who are parties to such instruments. We know of no
difference except that the United States cannot be sued."
These decisions, and many others that might be referred to, put
an end to the assumption, that a bill of exchange drawn by the government is an act of sovereignty, or any thing different in principle
from a bill drawn by an individual. Whether drawn by the government or an individual, a bill of exchange is the same commercial instrument, and subject to the same law. No principle is better
settled than this by the decisions of this court.
But it is supposed that there is something in the character of the
drawee, the French government, which destroys the-comm. :xial
character of the bill. This position is as unsustainable as tbi-rof
the character assumed for the drawer. The bill was drawn on M.
Humann, the Minister of Finance of the French government. The
money was due, and the payment of it was suhiect to no contingency from the face of the bill, nor from any circumstance connected with it. The drawer guaranteed the payment of the bill on
presentation by the holdei, under all the responsibilities which the
law attached. A demand, protest, and notice werp the only conditions on which these responsibilities were to become fixed.' These
conditions have been performed by the bank, and the government
has acknowledged its liability by paying a pari of the damages
claimed. But throwing itself upon its sovereignty, the government
refuses to pay the damages claimed -under the statute of Maryland,
on the ground that the instrument is not a bill of exchange. If this
ground be true, the costs of protest should not have been paid by it.
It is contended, that, is the question is now here, between the
original parties to the bill, the bank may be supposed to have taken
the bill under a full knowledge that it might not be paid by the
French government ; and could not be paid by it, unless the Cham hers should make an appropriation. And from this knowledge it is
inferred, that the bank took upon itself the risk of the punctual payment of the bill. This assumption is shown to be unfounded by the
fact, that the government, on being notified of the protest, immediately returned the money to the bank which it'had paid on account
of the bill. Now if there had been anylunderstanding, express or
implied, such as is presumed, in regard to the punctual payment of

406

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

the biH, would the government have done this ? There can be but
one answer to this question.
There was no doubt in the minds of the original parties to this
bill, that it would be paid on presentation. What was the language
of this government on receiving notice of the protest ? Was the
failure of the French Chambers to make the appropriation received
as an apology for the dishonor of the bill ? That government was
informed, in terms not to be misufiderstood, that no excuse for a
delay of payment could be received. That the obligation of the
French government was absolute, and in no degree dependent on
the will of the Chambers ; and an immediate payment was required.
The bank, shortly after the receipt of this bill, indorsed it to Baring,
Brothers, & Co., in London. This affords the highest evidence
that the bank believed the bill would be honored.
It is argued that the French government did notsubject itself to
a bill of exchange, and consequently to the payment of damages on
a default of payment. This may be admitted, and yet it does not
reach the question. The bill was not presented until the money
was due, and by drawing it our own government uhdertook that it
should be paid. T his is as well settled as any other principle in the
commercial law.
It seems to be considered that the case might have been stronger
against the government, had it been made by-an indorsee of the bill,
This 'cannot be correct., Every indorsee, from the face of the bill,
had all the notice which can be charged against the bank..
But it is contended that the bill was drawn on a particular Lund,
and therefore was not a bill of exchange.
. It is admitted, i( the payment of the bill is made to depend upon
any contingency, it is not a bill of exchange. In the language of
AIr. Chitty, -- " If the payment is to depend on the sufficiency of a
particular fund, the bill or note will be invalid." The case of Jenny
v. Herle, 2 Lord Raym. 1361., was much relied on in the argument. "'Herle sued Jenny upon a bill drawn by him upon Pratt,
and payable to Herle, as follows : - I Sir, you are to pay Mr.
Herle £1945 out of the money in your hands belonging to the
proprietors of the Devonshire mines, beingpart of the considerationmoney for the purchase of the manor of West Buckland.' Herle
had judgment in the Common Pleas ; but upon a writ of error, the
Court of King's Bench held that this was no bill of exchange, because it was only payable out of a particular fund, supposid to be in
Pratt's hands, and the judgment was accordingly reversed."
The decision in that case di4 not turn upon the words on the
face of the bill, " b eing part of the consideration-money for the
purchase of thte manor of West Buckland" ; but on these, -'"c You
are to .pay Mr. Herle out of the money in your hands belonging to
the proprietors of the Devonshire mines." The former words here
cited'in effect are the same as those used in the French bill, phow-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

407

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

ing the consideration on which it was drawn ; but in Herle's case
these words constituted no objection to the bill, and were not referred to 1y the court. The caEs. turned exclusively on the direction to "pay out of the money in your hands belonging to the
proprietors of the Devonshire mines." Had these words been
omitted, the bill would have been good. So that the case of Herle,
so much relied on by the plaintiffs' counsel, does not show the invalidity of the French bill.
The bill in Herle's case, in the language of the court, was payable out .of money supposed. to be in Pratt's hands. Consequently
it was payable out of no other fund. And if the fund supposed to
be in Pratt's hands was not there, then the bill was not, payable.
Compare this with the French bill : -I Siil, I have the honor, to request you to pay at sight of this my first of exchange, &c., to the
order of Samuel Jaudon, cashier of the Bank of the United States,
the sum of four millions eight hundred and fifty-six thousand six
hundied and sixty-six francs sixty-six centimes, which comprises
the sum of 3,916,666.66 francs, constituting the amount of the first
payrent to be made to the United States, by virtue of the conven-.
tion concluded between the United States and France, the 4th of
July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one (deduction made
of the amount of the first payment, reserved to France by said
treaty), and the additional sum of nine hundred forty thousand
francs, for a year's interest at four -per c6nt. upon the entire sums
payable to the United S _'tes, dating from the day of the .exchange
of ratification to the second of February, 1833."
Now there is not on the face of this bill any intimation out of
what fund the French government should pay it. It specifies on
what account the bill was drawn, showing the am
was due ; btfi
this does, not affect the character bf the bill. The instalment "was
referred to," in the language of Mr. Chitty, "in order to show the
consideration, and not to render the payment contingent."
In Burchell, Administrator; &c., v. Slocock, 2 Lord Raym.
1545, the action was on a promissory note, whereby the defendant
promised to pay to A..B. £101 12s. in three months after the date
of the said note, "value received out of premises in Rosemaly
Lane, late in the possession of G. H. The cohurt, on demurre
held this to be a promissory note within the statute." And so in
Hausoullier v. Hartminck, 7 Term, 733, the defendant promised to
pay -',
or bearer, £25, being'a portion of a' value as under
deposited in security for the payment thereof. Upon a special' case
being reserved, the court 'said they were clearly of opinion, that
thbugh, as between" the original parties to the transaction, the payment.of the notes was to be carried to a particular account, the defendants were liable oi these notel, which were made payable at
all events.
The question is, whether the payment of the bill is made to de-

408

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

pend upon any contingency. Now, it is clear this is not done in the
French bill. It is made payable absolutely, without any condition
expressed or implied.
The maker of a note promised to pay A. B. eight pounds, so
much being to be due from me to C. D., my landlady, at Lady-day
next, who is indebted in that sum to A. B.. Was held not to be
conditional. Chitty on Bills, 139. Now, in this instrument the
consideration is stated ; but that did not vitiate the note. The
French bill states nothing more, than that the amoant drawn for
was due by treaty. And -yet this is supposed to destroy its negotiable character. A aecision to this effect would, in in-- iudgment,
introduce a new principle into the law governing bills or" e.:change.
Is the bank entitled, under the statute of Maryand, to the fifteen
per cent. damages ?
The argument that the State of Maryland did not intend to subject her sovereignty to the provisions of the statute is entitled to but
little consideration. -The interest involved does not reach the sovereignty of the State ; and it is sufficient to say, there is no exemption of the interests of the State in the statute ; and in passing it,
the legislature intended, as in the enactment. of every other law, that
all legal effect should be given to it.
The words of the statute are, "that upon all bills of exchange
hereafter drawn in this State on any person, corporation, company,
or society in any foreign country," &c. ; and it is intimhted that
these words do not embrace a foreign 'government. In answer to
this, it may be said the bill is drawn on M. Humann, and is .literally within the statute.
From the cases above cited, it is clear that the government, in
drawing or negotiating a bill of exchange, subjects itself to all .the
liabilities of an individual ; consequently it is liable to the fifteen
per cent. damages, under the Maryland statute, if the bank is entitled to them. These damages were considered by this court in
the former decision as designed by the statute to cover regxchange.
This construction is opposedand it is argued that rexchange is
provided for in the statute, where it declares that the holder of a
protested bill "shall have a right to receive and recover so much
current money as will purchase a good bill of exchange of the'
same time of payment, and upon the same place, at the current exchange *of such bill." And the fifteen per cent. damazes in this
view are considered as a penalty.
Instead' of covering regxchange by the above provision, the legislature intended to give the holdqr of the protested bill the money
he paid for it, varying only as the rate of exchange should be at
the time. If the rate of exchange at the protest of the bill was
lower than when it was purchased, the holder, under the statute,
would recover lpss than be paid for it ; but if exchange had risen,
be would recover more. Now, this exchange is limited to this

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

409

The United States v. The Bank of the United States.

country, and therefore cannot have been intended as regxchange.
Reaxchange is a bill drawn at the place of payment of the protested bill, which shall sell for the amount of such bill. The holder
of the French bill, on its protest, was entitled, on commercial
principles, independently of the statute, to a bill on this country
which would sell at Paris for the amount of the protested bill.
This would be a very different sum from that which was paid for
the bill in this country. The regxchange depends upon the state
of trade betwe6n the two countries, direct and circuitous, the
money market, always regulated by the demand and supply, and
other circumstances of a local character,, which show that the
price at which the hill was purchased in this country can never be
the price at which a bill on this country would sell at Paris, or in
any foreign country. This fact being known to the, legislature of
Maryland, they could not have intended by the above provision to
cover regxchange. The statute gives to the purchaser of the bill
the amount he paid for it, with the small variation stated, and nothing more. The fifteen per cent. damages were given in lieu of reexchange, and not as a penalty. This is the view taken by the
c6urt in ifs former decision.
It is said that the bank, not having paid damages on the bill, is
not entitled to them. The bank, having negotiated the bill, was
responsible for its payment, with damages. And after the protest,
the agents of the bank supervened, and paid the amount of it to
the holder. The propriety of this payment is" not questioned.
By this act, the bank became the holder of the bill, not as indorsee,
but as, the original payee. In effect, this ownership obliterated
and annulled the indorsements on the bill. The bank, as the holder, could look to no one but the government -for payment. And
payment to the bank in this country was made, shortly after notice
of protest was received.
But the damages given by the statute have been withheld. Had
the bank never negotiated the bill, and made a demand of payment,
and protest for non-payment, vith regular notice, the right to the
damages claimed could not have been contested. And this is the
precise condition of the bank. It is the holder, having paid the
amount of the bill at Paris.
•-.The large amount of the damages claimed has been adverted to
in the argument. This should have no influence on the legal questdons that arise.
Suppose the bank had not taken up the bill after protest ; is
there any doubt that the holders could have recovered damages
from their indorsers, and they from the bank ? This would have
subjected the bank to the payment of the damages given by the
law of the place where the bill was first indorsed. But this circuitous course was prevented by the payment of. the bill. It thus
appears that the-bank paid this large sum of money in Paris, unexVOL. V.

35

410

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohiv,.

pectedly, which in the nature ef things must have subjected it
to great inconvenience and loss. By the payment, th credit of
the government, as the drawer of the bill, was sustained, and the
eventual liability of. the bank for principal and damages anticipated.
Now, as between individuals, this would entitle the holder of the
bill to the fifteen per cent. damages. And it is equally clear and
just, that the bank should receive the sme. There has been paid
to it by the government the principal, costs of protest, and the
commission charged by Hottinguer & 06t" as the agents of the
bank, who took up the bill, but not one cent has been paid to the
bank for the advance of the money at Paris. On the principles of
equity; independently of the statute, the bank is entitled to the difference in value of the sum paid by it in Paris, and the sum received by it from the government in this country. This -is reexchange, which the fifteen per cent., in my opinion, was intended
to cover. Of this opinion was the court which formerly decided
this case.
I think the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE also dissented from the ppinion of the
court.

Mr. justice WOODBURY, having given an official opinion as
Secretary of the Treasury against the claim of the bank in this
case, did not sit.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and- was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this.court,
that the judgment of the said-Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to that
court to award a venire facias de novo, and fok further proceedings
to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

IALi.tNDA

Fox v. THE

STATE OF OHIO.

The-power conferred upon"Congress by the fifth and sixth clauses of the eighth
sectioti of the first article of the constitution of the United States, viz.: - " To
coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix the standard
of wqig~ts and measures"; "To -providefor 'the punishment of counterfeiting
thp securities uad current coin of the-United States " - does not prevent a
State from passing a law
to punish the offence of circulating counterfeit coin
of the United States. PM

