OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

96

Argument for Defendant in Error.

249 U. S.

WEBB ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 370.

Argued January 16, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The first sentence of § 2 of the Narcotic Drug Act of December 17,
1914, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, prohibits retail sales of norpliine by druggists
to persons who have no physician's prescription, who have no order
blank therefor and who cannot obtain an order blank because
not of the class to which such blanks are allowed to be issued under
the act. P. 99.

This construction does not make unconstitutional the prohibition of
such sale. Id. United States v. Doremus, ante, 86.
If a practicing and registered physician issues an order for morphine
to an habitual user thereof, the order not being issued by him in
the course of professional treatment in the attempted cure of the

habit, but for the purpose of providing the user with morphine suf. ficient to keep him comfortable by maintaining his customary use,
such order is not a physician's prescription under exception (b) of
§ 2 of the act. Id.

THE case is stated in .the opinion.

Mr. Ralph Davis, with whom Mr. Ike W. Crabtree was
on the brief, for Webb et al., defendants, contended that
a druggist, who has paid the tax and registered under
the act and obtained the drug by use of the required form,
has a right to sell directly to the consumer, and that the
part of the act making it unlawful to do so without a

physician's prescription is beyond the power of Congress,
and an invasion of the police power of the States, citing:
Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Meffert v. Packer,
195-U. S. 625; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S.
394; In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; Blunt v. United States,
255 Fed. Rep. 332; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661.

WEBB i). UNITED STATES.
96.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Porter, with whom Mr.
W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Frans E. Lindquist, by leave of'court, filed a brief
as amicus curio.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the provisions of the Harrison Narcotic Drug Act, considered in No. 367, just decided,
ante, 86. The case comes here upon a certificate from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. From the
certificate it appears that Webb and Goldbaum were convicted and sentenced in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee on a charge
of conspiracy (§37, Penal Code) to violate the Harrison
Narcotic Law. 38 Stat. 785; 6 U. S. Comp. Stats. 1916,
§ 6287g. While the certificate ,states that the indictment
is inartificial, it is certified to be sufficient to support a
prosecution upon the theory that Webb and Goldbaum intended to have the latter violate the law by using the
order blanks (§ 1 of the act) for a prohibited purpose.
The certificate states: "If § 2, rightly construed, forbids sales to a non-registrable user, and if such prohibition is constitutional, we next meet the question whether
such orders as Webb gave to applicants are 'prescriptions,' within the meaning of exception (b) in §2.
"We conclude that the case cannot be disposed of without determining the construction and perhaps the constitutionality of the law in certain particulars, and for the
purpose of certification, we state the facts as follows,assuming, as for this purpose we must 'do, that whdtever
the evidence tended to show in aid of the prosecution,
must be taken as a fact:
"Webb was a practicing physician and Goldbaum a
retail druggist, in Memphis. It was Webb's regular cus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

-

249 U. S.

torn and practice to prescribe morphine for habitual users
upon their application to him therefor. He furnished
these 'prescriptions,' not after consideration of the applicant's individual case, and in such quantities and with
such direction as, in his judgment, would tend to cure the
habit or as might be necessary or helpful in an attempt
to break the habit, but without such consideration and
rather in such quantities as the applicant desired for the
sake of continuing his accustomed use. Goldbaum was
familiax with such practice and habitually filled such
prescriptions. Webb had duly registered and paid the
special tax as required by § 1 of the act. Goldbaum had
also registered and paid such tax and kept all records
required by the law. Goldbaum had been provided with
the blank forms contemplated by § 2 of the act for use
in ordering morphine, and, by the use of such blank order
forms, had obtained from the wholesalers, in Memphis,
a stock of morphine. It had been agreed and understood
between Webb and Goldbaum that Goldbaum should,
by using such order forms, procure a stock of morphine,
which morphine he should and would sell to those who
desired to purchase and who came provided with Webb's
so-called prescriptions. It wks the intent of Webb and
Goldbaum that morphine should thus be furnished to
the habitual users thereof by Goldbaum and without any
physician's prescription issued in the course of a good
faith attempt to cure the morphine habit. In order that
these facts may have their true color, it should also be
stated that within a period of eleven months Goldbaum
purchased from wholesalers in Memphis, thirty times as
much morphine as was bought by the average retail drug'
gist doing a larger general business, and he sold narcotic
drugs in 6,500 instances; that Webb regularly charged
fifty cents for each so-called prescription, and within this
period had furnished, and Goldbaum had filled, over 4,000
such prescriptions; and that one Rabens, a user of the

WEBB .. UNITED STATES.
96.

Opinion of the Court.

drug, came from another state and applied to Webb for
morphine and was given at one time ten so-called prescriptions for one drachm each, which prescriptions were
filled at one time by Goldbaum upon Rabens' presentation, although each was made out in a separate and fictitious name."
Upon these facts the Circuit Court of Appeals propounds to this court three questions:
"1. Does the first sentence of § 2 of the Harrison Act
prohibit retail sales of morphine by druggists to persons
who have no physician's prescription, who have no order
blank therefor and who cannot obtain an order blank
because not of the class to which such blanks are allowed
to be issued?
"2. If the answer to question one is in the affirmative,
does this construction make unconstitutional the prohibition of such sale?
"3. If a practicing and registered physician issues an
order for morphine to an habitual user thereof, the order
not being issued by him in the course of professional treatment in the attempted cure of the habit, but being issued
for the purpose of providing the user with morphine sufficient to keep him comfortable by maintaining his customary use, is such order a physician's prescription under
exception (b) of § 2?
"If question one is answered in the negative, or question two in the affirmative, no answer to question three
will be necessary; and if question three is answered in the
affirmative, questions one and two become immaterial."
What we have said of the construction and purpose of
the act in No. 367 plainly requires that question one
should be answered in the affirmative. Question two
should be answered in the negative for the reasons stated
in the opinion in No. 3;67. As to question three--to call
such an order for the use of morphine a physician's prev
scription would be so )lain a perversion of meaning that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

no discussion of the subject is required.
should be answered in the negative.

249 U. S.

That question

Answers directed accordingly.

For the reasons which prevented him from assenting in
No. 367, THE CHIEF JUSTICE also dissents in this case.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concur in the dissent.

L. A. WESTERMANN COMPANY. v. DISPATCH
PRINTING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Submitted November 15, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The liability imposed by § 25 of the Copyright Act attaches in respect
of each- copyright infringed, though by the same party. P. 105.
Several and distinct liabilities arise from several, distinct infringements of the same copyright by the same party. Id.
Where it is not shown that the infringer made profits, and it appears
by the evidence that the damages, though actual, cannot be estimated in money, damages "in lieu of actual damages and profits"
are assessable under § 25 of the Copyright Act. P. 106.
In such cases, the court's conception of what is just in the particular
case, considering the nature of the copyright, the circumstances of
the infringement, etc., is made the measure of the damages to be
pitid, but with the express qualification that the assessment must
be within the maximum and minimum limits prescribed by the section. Id.
The owner of separate copyrights for pictorial illustrations of styles
for women's appayel made a business of granting exclusive licenses,
restricted as to time and locality, for the use of the illustrations by
dealers in such apparel in advertising their goods, receiving con-

