OCTOBEIl

TEIRM, 1918.

Syllabus.

249 U. S.

the., adjudication binding on them as to all essential issues,
clearly misconceived the intention of Congress. The allegation in the involuntary petition that the Bank was
among those who had received preferences, did not impose upon it the duty to appear and answer; and since it
did not do so, even a finding to that effect by the bankruptcy court would not have bound it. The Supreme
Court of Michigan erred in holding that the adjudication
in bankruptcy established conclusively as against the
Bank that the debtor was insolvent at the time the payments were made. We have no occasion to consider
whether the record introduced was admissible merely as
evidence of insolvency.
Reversed.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY v. CITY
OF RICHMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 169.

Argued January 22, 1919.-Decided March 17, 1919.

The City of Richmond is authorized by its charter and the statutes of
Virginia to impose an occupation or license tax on the business of a
telegraph'company done within the city. P. 257.

Under its police power, a State may impose a license tax upon a telegraph company, which has accepted the Act of Congress of July 24,
1866, and is doing both an interstate and a local business, provided
the tax is, restricted in terms to the local business and does not in
effect burden or discriminate against the interstate business. Id.
Where a State requires a telegraph company to engage in intrastate
business, and taxes that business more than the amount of the net
receipts therefrom, so that payment, if compelled, must come in
part from receipts from interstate business, semble, that the tax must

POSTAL TEL.--CABLE CO. i. RICHMOND.
252.

253

Argument for Appellant.

be declared invalid; but only if the incidence on interstate commerce is shown by clear and convincing evidence. P. 258.
A telegraph company although it has accepted the Act of 1866, and is
engaged in interstate commerce, may be charged by a city a reasonable amount upon each .pole maintained and used in the city
streets, both as compensation for such use, in the nature of rental,
and to cover the expense entailed on the city by the presence of the
poles and wires and the liabilities and duties arising therefrom. Id.
Such a tax, if reasonable in amount, is not necessarily objectionable
because it exceeds the net returns from local business and must be
paid from interstate earnings. P. 259.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John N. Sebrell, Jr., for appellant:
The license tax while, in terms, restricted to business
done within the State, is, in fact, a tax upon the company's interstate business. This becomes so becausethe
intrastate business at Richmond is so small, that the net
receipts therefrom are insufficient to pay the tax, and the
payment if compelled, must come from the 'other business
of the company, namely, its interstate business, since the
laws of Virginia require it to accept such intrastate business. This fact was established by the allegations and
proofs and stood unchallenged. In the case of the telegraph business (unlike the railroad business, .where conditions as to different classes of freight and service are so
diverse,) the most equitable method of determining the
proper proportion of the expenses incurred in and properly
chargeable to intrastate business and interstate business,
is to divide the expense according to the ratio which
exists between the interstate and intrastate receipts.
Distinguishing Wood v. Vandalia R. R. Co., 231 U. S. 1,
and Simpson v. Shepard, 230 U. S. 352.
As to the license tea, therefore, the case falls clearly
within Pullman Coinpany v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420, since
there is no doubt that the company was required to do

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

249 U. S.

local..business by the laws of Virginia. Umstoxter v.
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co., 103 Virginia, 742; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Reynolds, 100 Virginia, 459. See
also, Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Cordele, 141 Georgia;
658; Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Norfolk, 118 Virginia,
455; Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S.
692; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansafs, 216 U. S. 1,
Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166; Norfolk &c., R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, 118; ,Leloup v. Mobile,
127 U. S. 641.
The tax on poles also is unjust, excessive, unreasonable
and void-far in excess of any expense to which the city
is put for inspection and superintendence.
This court has held in a line of decisions that, where a
municipality has no ownership in the streets which authorizes a rental, the only power for license fee exactions
upon the instrumentalities of interstate commerce is
derived from the police power. Postal Telegraph-Cable
Co. v. Taylor, 192 U. S. 64; Postal Telegraph-Cable Co.
v. New Hope, 192 U. S. 55; Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160.
The City of Richmond has no property right of any
kind in the streets, the easement of passage therein being
in the State and the fee in the abutting owners. Code of
Virginia, 1887, ยง 1038, 1287; Essex v, New England Telegraph Co., ,239 U. S. 313; Richmond v. Smith, 101 Virginia,
161.
It results, therefore, that the city, being without property rights in the streets, can impose only such tax as
is authorized by its police power, and, therefore, this case
falls under the influence of Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v.
Taylor, 192 U. S. 64, and not under St. Louis v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 148 U S. -92.
It appears from the record that there is no special inspection or supervision of the poles except by the regularly employed officers of the city with little or no ad-

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. RICHMOND.
2 52.

255

Argument for Appellant.

ditional expense, and that the license, fees exacted from
the company are greatly in excess of any amount necessary fdr police inspection or supervision. In fact, this
does not seem to be seriously controverted in the case.
That such taxes Ebre- invalid, see Dillon, Municipal
Corporations, 5th ed., vol. II, pp. 599, 665; Kitanning
Borough v. American Natural Gas Co., 239 Pa. St. 210;
Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v.' Philadelphia,190 U. S.
160, 164, 167; Postal Telegraph-Cable Co..'. .Taylor, 192
U. S. 64, 72; Philadelphiav. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
40 Fed. Rep. 615; Sunset Telephone Co. v. Medford, 115
Fed. Rep. 202; Saginaw v. Swift, 113 Michigan, 660; Atlantic Postalv. Savannah, 133 Georgia, 66, 71; Foote & Co. v.
Maryland, 232 U. S. 494.
The right to use the streets for the erection of poles was
granted directly by the State by ยง 1287 of the Code, supplemented by the ordinance of the city, and the grants
there made when accepted and performed by the company constituted a contract, the obligation of which was
impaired by the pole-tax ordinance. Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S. 58; Boise Water Co. v. Boise
City, 230 U. S. 84; Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone
Co., 224 U. S. 663. The power reserved "to put other
and additional restrictions and regulations upon the erection or use of said poles and wires by said company, and to
require at any time by ordinance or resolution, that the
use or erection of said poles and wires shall cease," is no
more than a reservation of the police control of the streets,'
Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S. 60,
72; and could not affect the nature of the grant coming
direct from the State. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co. v.
South Bcnd, 227 U. S. 544.
Counsel also discussed certain questions of stare decisis,
acquiescence and res judicata.
Mr. H. R. Pollard for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The appellant, the Telegraph Company, in its bill filed
in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia, sought to enjoin the City of Richmond
and its officers from collecting an annual license tax of
$300 imposed upon the company by ordinance "for the
privilege of doing business within the City of Richmond,
but not including any business done to or from points
without the State, and not including any business done
for the Government of the United States, its officers or
agents," and also from attempting to collect an annual
fee of $2, imposed by another ordinance, for each telegraph pole which the company maintained or used in the
streets of the city.
The allegations of the voluminous bill essential to be
considered are: That the company accepted the Act of
Congress of July 24, 1866, entitled, "An Act to aid in the
Construction of Telegraph Lines," etc., [c. 230, 14 Stat.
221], and is engaged in transmitting messages by telegraph, intrastate and interstate,-this is admitted; and
the following which are denied, viz., that the cost of doing
the intrastate business transacted by the company at
Richmond is greater than the receipts from' it and that
since both taxes must be paid, if at all, fromh receipts from
interstate commerce they constitute such a burden upon
'that commerce of the company as to render them unconstituiional and void.
The evidence introduced on the trial was largely in the
form .of affidavits, together with a transcript of the evidence taken in a former case, which was stipulated into
the record.
The District Court held the taxes valid and dismissed
the bill. On the constitutional questions mivolv ed a
direct appeal brings the case into this court for review.

POSTAL TEL.--CABLE CO. v. RICHMOND.
252.

257

Opinion of the Court.

Except for the contention that this record shows affirmatively and clearly that the taxes complained of are

necessarily unreasonable and a burden upon interstate
commerce, the case could well be disposed of, without discussion, on the authority of decided cases.
That the City of Richmond has authority, under the
statutes of Virginia and its charter, to impose an occupation or license tax on the business of the telegraph company done within the city is clear enough. Virginia Code,
ยง 1042; Charter of the City of Richmond, ยง 67; Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Norfolk, 101 Virginia, 125; Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Norfolk, 118 Virginia, 455. Assuming the existence of this power in the city, since interstate
and government service are expressly excluded from
liability for the license charge, the following cases sustain
the validity of the'tax. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v.
Charleston, 153 U. S. 692; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S.
296; Kehrer v. Stmwart, 197 U. S. 60; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160; Williams v. Talladega, 226 U. S. 404, 416.
The principle of these cases, and of many others cited in
the opinions, is that, as against federal constitutional
limitations of power, a State may lawfully impose a
license tax, restricted, as it is in this case, to the right to
do local business within its borders, where such tax does
not burden, or discrimiinate against, interstate business
and where the local business purporting to be taxed,
again as in this case, is so substantial in amount that it
does not clearly appear that the tax is a disguised attempt
to tax interstate commerce. Such a tax is not,.as is argued,
an inspection measure, limited in amount to the cost of
issuing the license or supervising the business, but is an
exercise of the police power of the State for revenue purposes, restricted to internal commerce, and thierefore
within the taxing power of the State. Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. Charleston. Williams v. Talladega, supra; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Alabama State Board of
Assessment, 132 U. S. 472, 473.
A statute of Virginia requires all telegraph companies
doing business in the State to transmit all messages, state
or interstate, which are tendered by other companies or
by individuals, upon payment of the usual charges. This
requirement that the appellant shall engage in intrastate
business, construed with the ordinance imposing the license tax, results, it is argued, in imposing a burden upon
its interstate business for the reason that the net receipts
from its intrastate business are insufficient to pay the
tax and therefore payment, if compelled, must be made
from interstate receipts. If the facts were as thus asserted
it well might be that this tax would be invalid, Pullman
Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420; Williams v. Talladega, 226
U. S. 404, 416, 417; but a careful examination of the record
fails to convince us that it contains that clear and convincing evidence that the tax thus falls upon interstate
commerce which is necessary to justify a finding that the
ordinance is unconstitutional and void.
There remains to be considered the fee, as it is called in
the ordinance imposing it, of $2 for each pole maintained
or used in the streets of the City of Richmond. This character of tax has also been the subject of definite decision
by this court and has been sustained where not clearly
shown to be a direct burcren upon interstate commerce
or unreasonable in amount, having regard to the purpose
for which it may lawfully be imposed. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419; Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Baltimore, 156 U. S. 210; Atlantic &
Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160.
These decisions do not conflict with Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. New Hope, 192 U. S. 55, or Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. Taylor, 192 U. S. 64. In the former of these

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. RICHMOND.
252.

259

Opinion of the Court.

cases the decision of this court rests upon its conclusion
that the jury found the tax unreasonable in amount, and
in the latter the ordinance involved was disposed of on
exception to the affidavit of defense, admitting the allegations of the bill that no inspection of the poles or wires
or supervision of the business of the company had been, or
was intended to be, made by the Borough and that if made
the cost could not reasonably be one-twentieth of the tax
imposed. This showing, taken with other facts in the case,
it was held, rendered the charge unreasonable and void.
The decisions cited sustaining this character of tax
proceed upon the principle that, although the occupation
of its streets by a telegraph company engaged in interstate
commerce, which has accepted the Act of Congress of
1866, cannot be denied by a city, yet, since the use of its
streets for its poles by such a company is necessarily,
in a measure, permanent and exclusive in character, and
different in kind and extent from that of the general
public, and since such use imposes contingent liabilities
upon a city, it is competent for it, in the exercise of its
police power, to exact reasonable compensation "in the
nature of rental" for the use of its streets, having regard
to the duties and responsibilities which such use imposes
on the municipality. Even if the net returns from the
intrastate business should not equal such tax and it must
be paid from interstate earnings, this alone would not be
conclusive against its validity. If the method of doing
interstate business necessarily imposes duties and liabilities upon a municipality, it may not be charged with the
cost of these without just compensation. Even interstate
business must pay its way,-in this case for its right of
way and the expense to others incident to the use of it.
St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S., supra,
pp. 98, et seq.; Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160, 163; St. Louis v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 149 U. S. 465. Such compensation should

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

also include the expense of inspection of the poles and
wires used, and of such supervision of the business of the
company conducted in the streets, as may be reasonably
necessary to secure the safety of life and property of the
inhabitants and of the users of the streets; but with the
authority in the courts, on proper application, to determine
whether, under the conditions prevailing in a given case,
the charge made is reasonably proportionate to the service
to be rendered and the liabilities involved, or whether it is
a disguised attempt to impose a burden on interstate
commerce. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
148 U. S. 92; St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
149 U. S. 465; Postal Telegraph-CableCo. v. Baltimore, 156
U. S. 210; Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,
190 U. S. 160, 163; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 195 U. S. 540, 566; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 169.
These decisions and principles dispose of the "pole tax"
before us.
The total amount of this tax was, in 1911, $344, in 1914,
$384, and in 1915, owing to the extension of the city
limits, it became $666. There is evidence which must be
credited, that poles and wires in the streets of a city require official inspection and supervision to secure their
being kept in proper position and repair, so that they will
not interfere with street traffic and may not, especially
in time of storm, become crossed with wires carrying high
tension currents and thus cause fires and loss of life and
property. There is conflict in the evidence as to the cost
to the city of such inspection and regulation, but the
amount stated does not seem excessive for the service
which should be rendered; and which witnesses for the
city testified was rendered, in looking after the many peles
of the appellant, part of which, at least, carried many
wires. As great or greater charges were sustained in St.
Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92; Postal

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. RICHMOND.
252.

261

Opinion of the Court.

Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Baltimore, 156 U. S. 210; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 172.
The contention cannot be allowed that the ordinance is
shown to be void by a formula, devised by an officer of
the appellant and pressed upon our attention, for determining the division of costs and expenses between interstate and intrastate business, which it is claimed shows
that the pole tax must be paid wholly from receipts from
interstate business.
Regardless of obvious criticisms which might be advanced to this formula and to the inadequacy of the data
furnished by the record for testing its validity, the charge
imposed upon the company, as we have seen, was so
moderate in amount, having regard to the necessary
burdens which the poles and wires in the streets must
impose upon the city, and is so well within the prior holdings of this court, which we have cited, that it cannot be
accepted as a sufficient basis for declaring the ordinance
invalid.
There is no disposition on. the part of this court to
modify in the least the law as it has been stated in many
cases, that "neither licenses nor indirect taxation of any
kind, nor any system of state regulation, can be imposed
upon interstate any more than upon foreign commerce;
and that all acts of legislation producing any such result
are, to that extent, unconstitutional and void." Crutcher
v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 62; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. But-municipal ordinances,
which for constitutional inquiry are deemed state laws,
will be declared void only where clearly shown to be unconstitutional and this very certainly cannot be said of the
ordinances in this case, assailed as they are, upon inadequate evidence and upon purely empirical calculations
which we are asked to adopt.
It results that the decree of the District Court must be

Affirmed.

