STANDARD SCALE (O. ,. FARR ELL.
Counsel for Partie.

STANDARD COMPUTING SCALE COMPANY,
LIMITED, 11.FARRELL, AS STATE SUPERINTENDENT OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 228.

Argued March 14, 1919.-Decided May 5, 1919.

A statement to the effect that all scales of a certain kind must be
equipped with automatic devices, to compensate for changes of
temperature, appearing as an item in a "bulletin of instruction and
information to dealers, and weights and measures officials,' issued
by the New York Superintendent of Weights and Measures, was
acted upon by certain county and city sealers of weights, with resulting injury to the-business of the plaintiff, a manufacturer of
scales of the kind specified but not equipped with such devices.
Held, considering the StWerintendent's functions and powers under
the New York law, and-the purpose of the statement, that it was

educational and advigory merely, not binding on the city and
county sealers and not a rule or regulatioli of a legislative character
such as might impair the plaintiff's constitutional rights under the
Fourteenth Amendment or the commerce clause. P. 573.
242 Fed. Rep. 97, affirmed.
THE case is stated

in the opinion.

Mr. Herbert C. Snyth, with whom Mr. Frederic C.
Scofield and Mr. Frederick W. Bisgood were on the briefs,
for appellant.

Mr. Edward G. Griffin, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of New York, with whom Mr. Charles D. Newton,
Attorney General of the State of New York, was on the

brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS

249 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the statutes of New York a sealer of weights and
measures is appointed in every county and every city by
the local authorities with the duty, among other things,
to keep safely the standards and to seal and mark such
weights as correspond with the standards in his possession.
The statutes provide also for a State Superintendent of
weights and measures with, among other things, a like
duty to keep the state standards, and "where not otherwise
provided by law" to "have a general supervision of the
weights, measures and measuring and weighing devices
of the state, and in use in the state." General Business
'Law of New York, sections 11-15, Laws 1909, c. 25,
amended 1910, Laws 1910, c. 187. Under a specific appropriation he publishes and distributes "bulletins of instruction and information to dealers, and weights and
measures officials." Laws 1914, c. 521, p. 2093. In the
bulletin for August, 1914, there appeared, among other
matter, the following item:
"Specifications.
"Automatic Computing Scales.
"All combination spring andlever computing scales must
be equilped with a device which will automatically compensate for changes of temperature at zero balance and
throughout the whole. range of weight graduations."
The Standard Company manufactures a combination
spring and lever computing scale which was then being
used and sold in New York.. It is equipped with a compensating device which is not automatic. Because of these
"specifications," some county and city sealers of weights
neglected to seal scales of plaintiff's make and' warned
scal. users to discontinue the use thereof. A state inspedtor, who was a subordinate of the State Superintend-

STANDARD SCALE CO. v. FARREL.
571.

Opinion of

573

the Court. -

ent,' also -marked some of these scales "slow and faulty."
As a result, (the Standard Company's business in New
York was injured; sales diminished and collections for
scales theretofore sold became difficult. The Standard
Company contends that its scales with a'mechanical compensating device are at least as trustworthy as those of
its competitor with the automatic device; and it presented
these views to State Superintendent Farrell both before
the "specifications" were issued and thereafter. Failing
to secure a withdrawal of the "specifications," it brought,
in February, 1915, this suit in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York
against the State Superintetdent, setting forth, in substance, the facts above stated and praying that the issuing
of thd "specifications," ivhich it termed a "rule," be
declared an invalid exercise of the police power of the
State and their enforcement enjoined On the ground that
the rule violates the 1 ederal Constitution, in that it inpairs the obligation of contracts, interferes with interstate conunerce, 'abridges the privileges and immunities
of a citizen, deprives the plaintiff of property without due
process, and denies to it equal protection of the laws.
An answer was filed; and upon full hearing on the evidence
the bill was dismissed on the merits. 242 Fed. Rep. 87.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree; but,
at appellant's request, the mandate was later withdrawn.
and the appeal dismissed for want of jurisdiction; because
it appeared that the jurisdiction of the District Court had
been invoked solely under § 24, paragraph 14, of the
Judicial Code, on the ground that the defendant's "rule"
was unconstitutional. Carolina Glass Co. v. South Carolina, 240 U. S.305, 318. Thereupon the case was brought
here by direct appeal 'under § 238 of the Judicial Code. No question is made as to the constitutionality of the
statute creating the offic of State Superintendent and
defining his duties. The attack is upon the "specifica-

574

OCI'OI3ER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. 8.

tions" in the bulletin which plaintiff assumes are a regulation, that is, a law. Its contention is that the so-called
"rule" is not a proper exercise of the police power, anid
is void; because it is arbitrary and unreasonable, because
it unjustifiably discriminates against plaintiff's product,
and because it interferes with interstate commerce. The
claim that it impairs the obligation of contracts is not
now insisted upon.
The "specifications" were not published as a regulation
purporting to prescribe a course of action to be enforced
by the power of the State. They embody, as the evidence
shows, the result of prolonged investigation and extensive
experimentatioh; and formulate the conclusion reached
by the State Superintendent that every known automatic computing scale without an automatic compensating device is likely to mislead the customer who
purchases at retail. In other words, the vice in this kind
of scales was found by him to be generic; and as the objection was not one due to a defect of an individual machine,
it was deemed useless to -make individual tests. The
"specifications" ,are a law only in the sense that every
truth of general application may be spoken of as a law.
If they may be termed a rule, it is only in the sense that
they furnish a guide for the action of those interested.
That is, the function of the "specifications" is educational and, at most, advisory.
The item was one appropriate for a bulletin "of instruction and information to dealers, and weights and
measures officials." That such was its purpose is shown
also by the other items contained in the same issue of the

Bulletin. In the pages preceding the "specifications"
here in question, was one item giving elementary information as to how prosecutions for violation of the General
Business Law may be conducted, and two recent opinions
of the Attorney-General of New York addressed to the
State Superintpeident. The first concerned the power of

STANDARD SCALE CO. v. FARRELL.
571

Opinion of the Court.

local magistrates to punish for violation of that law, the
other the right to mark containers in terms of the metric
system. Following the "specifications"'.in. question arc
two more opinions of the Attorney-General and the opinion of a municipal court. The last item of the Bulletin.
isentitled "Specifications-Measuring Pumps," and comveys useful information concerning automatic measuring
devices. The information given in the "specifications"
complained of may, as the plaintiff contends;-beincorrect,
the instruction may be unsound, and, if it is so, may be
mischievous and seriously damage the property rights of
innocent persons. But the opinions and advice, even of
those in authority, are not a law or regulation such as
comes within the scope of the several provisions of. the
Federal Constitution designed to secure the rights of
citizens as against action by the States.
If the State Superintendent had undertaken to introduce a regulation legislative in character, that is, to prescribe rules of action which the city and county sealers
would be forced to follow, and to prohibit the use in. the
State of scales not sealed in accordance with his regulations, he would have exceeded his povers; for the few conferred upon him are not of that character. The General
Business Law substantially as enacted in 1909, provided by
§ 11 that:" The state superintendent of weights and measures shall take charge of the standards adopted by this article as the standards of the state; cause them to be kept in a
fire-proof building belonging to the state, from which they
shall not be removed, except for repairs or for certification, and take all other necessary precautions for their
safe-keeping. He shall maintain the state standards in
good order and shall submit them once in ten years fo the
national bureau of standards for certification. He shall
correct the standards of the several cities and counties,
and, as often as once in five years, compare the same with
those in his 'possession, and where not otherwise pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

vided by law he shall have a general supervision of the
weights, measurqs and measuring and weighing devices
of the state, and in use in the state." The statutes give
the State Superintendent no control of county or city
sealers. He does not appoint them and they are, in no
respect, his subordinates. The -powers which they now.
exercise are substantially the same as those conferred
upon them by the Colonial Act of June 19, 1703,1 which
created those offices. Sdbtion 11 of the General Business
Law was a reenactment of § 11 of the Domestic Commerce Law, Laws '1896, c. 376; and the latter was substantially a reenactment of § 17 of d. 134 of the Laws of
1851, which act created (by § 16) the office of State Superindentent. 2 Section 11 as enacted in 1909 was amended
(Laws 1910, c. 187) so as to prescribe additional specific
duties of the State Superintendent.3 But none of these
'Report upon Weights and Measures, by John Quincy Adams,
Secretary of State, February 22, 1821, p. 189.
2An Act passed .February 2, 1804, had provided that.the Secretary
of State should be ex officio state scaler of weights and measures and
that "from time to time, as occasion may require," "one assistant
state sealer" might be appointed. Report upon Weights and Measures,' by John Quincy Adams, Secretary of State, February 22, 1821,
p. 194.
"He shall upon the written request of any citizen, firm, corporation or educational institution of the state, test or calibrate weights,
measures, weighing or measuring devices and instruments or apparatus
used as standards in the state. He, or his deputies or inspectors by
his direction, shall at least once annually test all scales, weights and
measures used in checking the receipt or disbursement of supplies in
every institution, under the jurisdiction of the fiscal supervisor of
state charities afid he shall report in writing his findings to said fiscal
supervisor and to the executive officer of the institution concerned;
and at the requdst of said officers the superinteiident of weights and
measures shall appoint in writing one or more employees, then in
actual service, of each institution, who shall act as special deputies
for the purpose of chcking the receipt or disbursement of supplies.
He shall keep a complete record of the standards, balances and other
apparatus belonging to the state and take receipt for the same from

STANDARD SCALE CO. i,.FARRELL.
571.

577

Opinion of the Court.

is legislative in character; and the enumeration of them
serves rather to limit than to enlarge the meaning of the
clause, giving "general supervision of the weights
in use in the state."
If the "specifications" -had been issued as a regulation,
that is, a law, we might have been called upon to enquire
whether it was a proper exercise of the police power or
was,' as plaintiff contends, void because arbitrary and
unreasonable, or because it was discriminatory, or as
interfering with interstate commerce. For the protection
of the Federal Constitution applies, whatever the form
in which the legislative power of the State is exerted; that
is, whether it be by a constitution, an act of the legislature, or an act of any subordinate instrumentality of
the State exercising delegated legislative authority, like
an ordinance of a municipality or an order of a commission. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 238 U. S.
340; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles,
227 U. S. 278, 286-288; Oregoh Railroad & Navigation
Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; Grand Trunk Western Ry.
Co. v. Railroad Commission of Indiana, 221 U. S. 400, 403.
But since the "specifications" are not in the nature of a
law or regulation, the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution cannot apply.
The District Court did not err, in dismissing the bill;
and its judgment is

A Xrmed.
his successor in office. He shall annually (luring tle first two weeks
of. January make to the legislature a report of the work done by his
office. The state superintendent, or his deputies or inspectors "byhis
direction, shall inspect ll standards used by the counties or cities at'
least once in two years and shall keep a record of the same. He, or
his deputies or inspectors at his direction, shall at least once in two
years visit the various cities and counties of the state in order to inspect the work of the local sealers and in the performance of such
duties he may inspect the weights, measures, balmnces or any other
weighing or measuring appliances of any person, firm or corfioration."

