EX PAITE WAGNER.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE WAGNER (TRADING AS THE AMERICAN MECHANICAL TOY COMPANY), ET AL.,
PETITIONERS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 29, Original.

Argued March 17, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Mandamus may be resorted .to, in proper cases, for the purpose of
securing judicial action, but not for the purpose of.determining in
adVance what that action shall be. P. 471.
A writ of mandamus could not properly be directed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and its judges, to control proceedings in a caset
which has been remanded by that court to the District Court and
is pending exclusively in the latter. P. 469.
Interlocutory proceedings for an accounting, in the District Court,
will not be forbidden by mandamus merely upon the ground that
disposition of other proceedings before this court may possibly
render the accounting nugatory and a useless expense to the petitioner. P. 471.
So held, where the District Court, in the exercise of its judicial discretion, had refused to stay the accounting, upon full consideration
of the grounds urged in this court by petitioner.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.

Tii case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. A. Toulmin, Jr., and Mr. H. A. Toulmin, with
whom Mr. E. H. Turner and Mr. W. B. Turner were on
the brief, for petitioners.

Mr. Reeve Lewis, with whom Mr. C. A. L. Massie and
Mr. Ralph L. Scott were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The petitioners pray that

.

-vit of niandainus sliall

issue out of this court, requiring the Circuit Court of Am-

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

peals for the Sixth Circuit and the judges thereof and
the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Ohio, Western Division, and the judge thereof, to stay
further proceedings in a suit pending in the District Court,
and the execution of a judgment against petitioners rendered therein by that court and affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The answers of the courts and judges
to the usual rule to show cause are before us.
The facts upon which the prayer for this extraordinary
remedy is based are as follows: The Meccano, Limited, a
corporation, brought a suit, which we shall designate as
the Ohio case, in the District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against F. A. Wagner, trading as The American Mechanical Toy Company, and The Strobel & Wilken
Company, a corporation, charging: (1) the infringement
of letters patent, which the plaintiff claimed to own, covering certain parts of a model-builder or mechanical toy,
known by the trade-name of "Meccano;"' (2) the infringement of two copyrights which the plaintiff claimed
to own upon the manual or book of instructions, which
was sold with the toy and which was essential to the use
of it, and (3) unfair competition. An accounting and
permanent injunction were prayed for. The defendants
denied the allegations of the bill and asserted a counter
claim.
Upon the trial on the merits the District Court found
for the plaintiff on all of the issues, dismissed the counterclaim of defendants. and granting an injunction ordered
an accounting.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit affirmed the decree of the District Court except
as to the infringement of the patent, which was held to
be invalid for want of invention, and remanded the case
for a-decree not inconsistent with its opinion.
Pursuant to this affirmance the District Court entered
a decree, and appointed a master to take an account of

EX PARTE WAGNER.
465.

Opinion of the Court.

gains, profits and damages and to report his conclusions
to that court.
Thus was the Ohio case ripe for an accounting, which
had been ordered, when the petition which we are considering was filed.
After the decision by the District Court in the Ohio
case, but before it was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the Meccano, Limited, instituted a suit, which
we shall designate as the New York case, in the United
States District. Court for the Southern District of New
York against John Wanamaker, a corporation, charging
that the defendant, a customer of the defendants in the
Ohio case and a retail dealer engaged in selling the toy
manufactured by Wagner, was guilty of the same violations of complainant's rights as were alleged in the Ohio
case. Upon "affidavits and exhibits" a motion for an
injunction pendente lite was filed which, upon hearing, was
granted. From this order allowing a temporary injunction an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, and after the appeal was argued,
but before it was decided, the decree of the District Court
in the Ohio case was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Thereupon the Meccano
Company filed a "motion for a decision on the merits"
in the New York case, then pending on appeal in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and in
support of this motion were filed copies of the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and of
the decree entered by the District Court pursuant thereto.
This motion for a judgment on the merits was bottomed
on the claim that the two cases involved the same issues,
that Wagner had assumed the defense in the New York
case and that the decree rendered by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit constituted an estoppel by
judgment when pleaded in the case in the Second Circuit,
-- but the motion was denied.

OC'TOBE31R TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Ldtcr on, the appeal from the order granting a preliminary injunction, which was argued before the motion
for judgment on the merits was filed, was decided, and
the District Court was reversed, the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit holding with the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit that the patent
declared on was invalid for want of invention, but the
court also held that a very clear case was necessary to
justify a preliminary injunction for a claimed infringement of copyright or for unfair competition, the only remaining claims in the bill, and that the affidavits and
exhibits before the District Court were not sufficient to
warrant its conclusion. For these reasons the order of
the District Court allowing a temporary injunction was
reversed.
Following this decision by the Circuit Court'of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, the Meccano, Limited, filed a
petition in this court for a writ of certiorari, giving as the
reasons relied upon to secure the writ that there was a
conflict of opinion between th4 Courts of Appeals of the
Second and Sixth Circuits upon the questions involved
in the case, and that the cause should be brought before
this court for review to determine:
(1) The legal effect to be given to a prior decree in the
Sixth Circuit against the manufacturer, as against a customer in the Second Circuit;
(2) Whether the preliminary injunction could be legally
denied by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit after the prior adjudication of the same issues by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit;
(3) Whether or not the prior decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit entitled the petitioner to
a decision in its favor on the "motion for a decision on the
merits" filed in the later case in the Second Circuit;
(4) Whether or not an unsuccessful defendant in a suit
in one Circuit, in which his product has been adjudged

EX PARTE WAGNER.
405..

Opinion of the Court.

unlawful, is to be permitted to re-litigate the same issues
with respect to the same product by assum' ig the defense

of a subsequent suit in another Circuit against one of his
customers.
Upon this petition a writ of certiorari was allowed and
the case was brought to this court for review.
Promptly upon the granting. of the writ of certiorari

by this court the petitioners herein moved the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit to stay the accounting proceeding in the Ohio case pending a decision
by this court in the New York case.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
denied this motion and, in the answer of that court.and
of the judges thereof to the rule of this court to show cause,
they give as their reason for so deciding, that the court
was of the opinion that, as the case had theretofore been
remanded to the District Court, it had n° jurisdiction to
order such a stay or to make an order directing the District Judge to do so,-certainly not until a. like application
had been made to that court and had been refus-ed. In
its journal entry the court sufficiently advised the unsuccessful parties of the reason for its action. It reads
as follows:
"That the motion
.
to stay all proceedings
herein . .
presents a question which, at this stage

of the case, No. 2977, must be determined by the court
below."
And the court and judges add. that no application had
been made in any way to review the action taken by the
District Judge on the motion to stay.
Obviously it is a conclusive answer to the prayer 6f the
petitioners for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court
of Appeals and to the jidges thereof directing the entry
of a stay 6f proceedings, that the case was. not, when
the stay was refused, and is not now, pending in that
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

After this overruling of their motion for a stay by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, the petitioners herein made a similar application to the District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio for a stay of proceedings until the New York case should be decided by
this court, which motion was also denied.
The District Court and the judge thereof in the return
to the rule issued herein, give as reasons for such denial:
(1) That the defendants had permitted the time to
expire in which to apply to this court for a review of the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on certiorari without making any application for such
review, and therefore the court concluded that the rigtts
of the parties as to unfair competition and copyright infringement, which remained after the holding that the
patent was invalid, had become settled.
(2) That the case before the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit was an appeal from an order granting a preliminary injunction and that to the court, not
having the .ecord in that suit before it, the New York
chse seemed to involv6 only the question as to the effect
of the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit upon the case in the Second Circuit and could
not, therefore, be determinative of the rights of the parties
in the Ohio case.
(3) That there did not seem to the court to be any
conflict between the decisions by the Sixth and Second
,Circuit Courts of Appeals because the facts of the two
cases, as the court was advised, were so different that
the decisions could not be the same upon their merits.
(4) That from the statement of counsel for Wagner
that a fire had occurred on the floor of the building in
which the Wagner outfits, manuals, etc., and books
had been stored, resulting in great injury to them, the
court concluded it to be the part-of prudence that the
marshal should take possession of such property and

EX PAF
465.

E WAGNER.

Opinion of the Court.

books as soon as possible, and that there seemed to it
no good reason for further delay in the accounting.
This answer of the District Court and judge is also
clearly sufficient and conclusive. It shows that the
court was called upon to judicially determine the scope
of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, reversing the action of the District
Court granting a temporary injunction, and whether
or not that decision was in conflict with -he decision by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit;
to forecast, as best it might, what the scope and effect
of the decision of this court in the New York case would
be upon the rights of the parties as determined in the
Ohio case, and, having regard to the rights of the plaintiff and the conduct of the defendants, whether, after
four years of obviously very strenuous litigation, the
accounting should be further delayed by the prospect
that the decision of this court might render the results
of it valueless.
Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, to be resorted to for the purpose of securing judicial action,
not for determining in advance what that action shall
be. In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396. It may riot be resorted to,
as the petitioners seek to resort to it he-e, for the purpose
of controlling minor orders made in the conduct of
judicial proceedings, and the fact that the result of
litigation may possibly be such that interlocutory proceedings taken may not prove of value is not a sufficient
reason for calling the writ into use for the purpose of
forbidding such proceedings, even though the cost of
them cannot be recovered from the opposing party or
even though the order cannot be reversed on error or
appeal. Ex parte Newman, 14 Wall. 152, 165, 168.
This from American Construction Co. -v. Jacksonville,
Tampa & Key West Ry. Co., 148 U. S. 372, 379, is
sharply pertinent to the application .before us:

OCI('I)BER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

-Least of all, can a writ of mandamus be granted to
review a ruling or interlocutory order made in the progress of a cause: for, as observed by Chief Justice Marshall, to do this 'would be a plain evasion of the provision of the act of Congress that final judgments only
should be brought before this court for reexamination;'
would 'introduce the supervising power of this court
into a cause while depending in an inferior court, and
prematurely to decide it; ' would allow an appeal or
writ of error upon the same question to be 'repeated,
to the great oppression of the parties;' and 'would subVert our whole system of jurisprudence.'"
The petitioners have misconceived the scope and
applicability of the remedy of mandamus and the rule is
Discharged and the petition dismissed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STATE OF
ARIZONA.
THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.
ERROR T11O
No. 238.

Submitted March 13, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Whether a shipment was at a given time interstate is a question of
fact. P. 477.
Evidence held insufficient to prove that a traveling show was moving
interstate, at the time of proceedings before a state commission, to

require transportation within the State and fix the rate. Id.
The mere intention to continue the tour of a traveling show beyond
the State where it was performing, held not enough to give interstate character to a contemplated journey within the State. Id.
A claim of federal right which was not set up in the state court and
made in the assignments of error held not open in this court. P. 478.
Semble, that when required by a state commission to transport a

