OCTOBER TERM. 1918.
SyIlabus.

2.1. U. S.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION FOR THE
STATE OF KANSAS ET AL. v. LANDON, RECEIVER OF THE KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY, ET AL.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, ET AL. v. LANDON,
RECEIVER OF THE KANSAS NATURAL GAS
COMPANY, ET AL.
KANSAS CITY GAS COMPANY ET AL. v. KANSAS
NATURAL GAS COMPANY ET AL.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION FOR THE
STATE OF KANSAS ET AL. v. LANDON, RECEIVER OF THE KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Nos. 277, 329, 330, 353. Argued November 6, 1918.-Dccided
March 17, 1919.
The District Court, having extended its receivership under Jud. Code,
ยง 56, over the entire business and property of a company engagcd
in interstate transportation and sale of gas in several States of the
circuit, has jurisdiction of a dependent bill brought by the receivers to enjoin officials of those States from imposing rates alleged to
be confiscatory, and burdensome to the interstate business. P. 244.
See 234 Fed. Rep. 152, 155.
Interstate commerce is a practical conception, and what falls within
- it must be determined upon considerations of established facts and
known commercial methods. P. 245.
While the piping of natural gas from State to State, and its sale and
delivery to independent local gas companies, is interstate commerce, the retailing of the gas by the local companies to their consumers is intrastate commerce and is not a continuation of such

interstate commerce, even though their mains are connected per-

PUBLIC UTI1LTIES COMM. v. LANDON.
236.

Argument for Landon ct al.

manently with those of' their vendor and their vendor's agreed
compensation is a definite proportion of their gross receipts. Id.
In such case, regulation of the rates chargeable by the local companies
has but an indirect effect upon the interstate business of the transporting r -d selling company; at least when the latter is in the hands
of receivers who have not accepted or become bound by the contracts with the former; and such receivers, not being obliged to
accept unremunerative prices, have no ground to complain that
rates fixed for the local companies are confiscatory, or are burdensome to the interstate business, even though that business consists
exclusively in selling the gas to such local companies. P. 246.
234 Fed. Rep. 152; 242 Fed. Rep. 658; 245 Fed. Rep. 950, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

(See also, post, 591.)

Mr. F. S. Jackson for Public Utilities Commission for
the State of Kansas et al.
Mr. Robert Stone and Mr. Chester i. Long, with whom
Mr. John H. Atwood, Mr. George T. McDermott, Mr.
Austin M. Cowan, Mr. R. A. Brown, Mr. T. S. Salathiel

and Mr. John.J. Jones were on the briefs, for Landon,
Receiver; Kansas Natural Gas Co.; and Sharitt, Receiver:'
That the' court below had jurisdiction over the Kansas
and Missouri defendants because of the ancillary and dependent character of the suit, see 234 Fed. Rep. 154;
Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 23q U. S. 277; Krippendorf v.
Hyde, 110 U. S. 276; White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36.
'For

the cases involving this controversy in various phases,

see: McKinney .v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 206 Fed. Rep. 772;
McKinney v. Landon, 209 Fed. Rep. 300; Kansas City Pipe Line Co.
v. Fidelity Title & Trust Co., 217 Fed. Rep. 187; Fidelity Title & Trust
Co. v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 219 Fed. Rep. 614; State v. Flannelly,
96 Kansas, 372; s. c., 96 Kansas, 833; Landon v. Public Utilities Conviissio, 234 Fed. Rep. 152; State v. Litchfield, 97 Kansas, 592; State
v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 100 Kansas, 593; State v. Gas Company,
102 Kansas, 712; Landon v. Public Utilities Commission, 242 Fed. Rep.
658; Landon v. Putblic Utiiiti"s Commission, 245 Fed. Rep. 950; St.
Joseph Gas Co. v. Barker, 243 Fed. Rep. 206.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Landon et al.

249 U. S.

There is no misjoinder of causes. The property is a
unit, to be protected as such.
The protection of the commerce clause extends not only
to the transportation of the article, but also to the sale
of the article when it arrives at its destination. Heyman
v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178; Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548;
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; American Express
Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.
313; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 24. The
transportation and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce is national in character. Haskell.v. Cowham, 187
Fed. Rep. 403; 234 Fed. Rep., at p. 164; West v. Kansas
Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229; Haskell v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co.; 224 U. S. 217; this case, 242 Fed. Rep. 687, 689;
South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537; Pipe
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548; Wabash &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois,
118 U. S. 557.
With one or two exceptions, the distributing companies
do no business except to transport and distribute the
natural gas transported in interstate commerce by the
plaintiff receivers. Employment of these local agencies
in itself would not authorize the State to regulate the interstate commerce conducted by the plaintiff receiver.
West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., supra; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105. Local incidental
service at the beginning or end of the journey does not
affect the interstate character. Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456,
465-468; Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120.
The Supreme Court of Kansas, in State v. Flannelly,
96 Kansas, 372, and State v. Litchfield, 97 Kansas, 592,
took the position that the distributing companies were
but the agents of the receiver of the Kansas Natural Gas
Company. If so, this case comes within Crenshaw v.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. v. LANDON.
236.

Argument for Landon et al.

Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v.
Brickell, 233 U. S. 304:; Davis v. Virginia, 236-U. S. 697;
and Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S. 665; for the order for
the gas is given by the consumer to the distributing company long before the gas is started in the course of transportation. When the consumer connects with the distributing company's system, he thereby asks for a supply
to be furnished him at all times in the future. It is with
the knowledge of the demands of these consumers, and for
the purpose of supplying them, that the receiver starts
his natural gas in the course of transportation -from Oklahoma to Kansas.
The use of the distributing companies' systems in the
distribution and sale of natural gas does not change the
interstate character of the connerce. As the court below
found (242 Fed. Rep. 681), the transportation does not
cease until the gas is consumed. The contention that the
gas is. at rest, that the whole pipe line system constitutes
one huge reservoir from which the gas is taken off as
needed by the consumers, is not supported by the evidence and is contrary to the court's finding.
Plurality of carriers does not affect the question. ,South
Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537.
There may be a change of ownership in transit without
affecting the characte\ of the shipment.. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403. It is the purpose and intent with which a shipment is commenced
that determines. Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1, 23; Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
The present case is much stronger than the Swift Case,
for here the gas moves without interruption or change in
ownership from the gas fields in Oklahoma to consumers
in Kansas and Missouri. It is more than a recurring course
of dealing. It is constant and, continuous. When it is
started in its course it is with the intent and purpose that
it shall be delivered to consumers without interruption

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Landon et al.

249 U. S.

in transportation. See also Southern Pacific Terminal Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Texas
& New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S.
111; Railroad Commission of Louisiana v. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark
Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120; Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371; Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101. The distributing companies occupy the same position as connecting carriers,
and the gas moves in a like manner as if a carload of coal
was shipped from Oklahoma over a railroad, delivered
to a terminal company at the outskirts of the city, and
by the terminal company delivered to the consignee.
United States v. Terminal Association of St. Louis, 224
U. S. 383; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498.
Incidental storage in the pipe lines and holders does
not destroy the interstate character of the movement;
nor does the drawing out of the gas for consumption as the
movement progresses. Western Transit Co. v. Leslie &
Co., 242 U. S. 448; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster,
247 U. S. 105. The original package doctrine is applicable
only to goods which have come to rest after their interstate journey and are intended to be transported no further
in interstate commerce.
The mixing of intra- and interstate natural gas in the
same pipe lines does not give the State authority over
the mass. State v. Stock Yards Co., 94 Kansas, 96, 99;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
The gas in both main and service pipes belongs to the
receivers and is paid for by the consumer at his meter.
The receiver must bear all the loss from leakage, and-gets
nothing for the gas delivered if the consumer does not pay.
The theory that the interstate transportation ends with
a sale and delivery to the distributing company where the

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. v. LANDON.
236.

Counsel for Parties.

latter's pipe connects with the trunk line, is fallacious,
for there is no such delivery-the gas passes in freely and
continuously; nor any sale-the distributor never owns
the gas, and merely collects from the consumers and
accounts to the receiver for his proportion (upon which the
latter depends for all his expenses and profit), acting for
him in a representative capacity, whether as agent or
connecting carrier is immaterial.
The fixing of the price at which the gas may be sold is
therefore the fixing of the rate for transportation and a
direct interference with interstate commerce.
The supply contracts do not bind the receiver, because
he has never adopted them; because they are void under
the Federal, Kansas and Missouri Anti-Trust Acts; because of changed conditions; and because the bases of
these contracts-rate provisions of the franchise ordinances
-- are void for want of power in the cities and have been
violated and disregarded by them.
The rates fixed by the Kansas Commission are confiscatory and violate due process.
Mr. James D. Lindsay, with whom Mr. Frank W. McAllister, Attorney General of the State of Missouri,
Mr. W. G. Busby and Mr. A. Z. Patterson were on the
brief, for Public Service Commission of Missouri.
Mr. A. F. Smith, with whom Mr. E. M. Harber, Mr.
Benj. M. Powers, Mr. Ray Bond and Mr. Chas. L. Faust
were on the briefs, for Kansas City Joplin and St. Joseph,
Missouri.
Mr. Charles Blood Smith for Fidelity Title & Trust Co.
Mr. J. W. Dana for Kansas' City Gas Co. et al.
"Mr. Leonard S. Ferry, Mr. Thomas F. Doran, Mr.
M. F. Cosgrove, Mr. J. M. Challis and Mr. Floyd Harper
filed a brief on behalf of various distributing companies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusncE McRYNOLDS delivered

249 U. S.

the opinion of the

court.
These are appeals by different groups of: defendant
below from decrees prohibiting public conmmssions and
officers of Kansas and Missouri, certain municipalities
and many local gas distributing companies from interfering with establishinekit and maintenance of selling
rates for gas to consumers sufficiently high to compensate
receivers of the Kansas Natural Gas Company. 234 Fed.
Rep. 152; 242 Fed. Rep. 658; 245 Fed. Rep. 950.
The Kansas Natural Gas Company-hereinafter, The
Gas Company-a Delaware corporation, owned a system
of pipe lines extending from Oklahoma and Kansas points
to some forty terminal towns and cities in Kansas and
Missouri and produced, purchased, transported, distributed and sold natural gas prior to October 9, 1912.
During the years 1904-1908 by separate agreements it
undertook to supply many local companies with gas for
ultimate sale to their customers and to accept -therefor
a definite proportion-generally two-thirds-of the gross
amounts paid by such customers. Permanent physical
connections permitted gas to pass from The Gas Coinmany's pipe lines into the several local companies' mains.
The latter operated under special ordinances usually
specifying the rates which customers should pay; and,
except in four relatively unimportant places, the former
had no local franchise permitting either distribution or
sale of gas, nor did it own any interest in a defendant distributing company.
The Gas Company procured gas by drilling, purchase
or otherwise in Southern Kansas and Oklahoma-six
per cent. in the former-forced it through pipe lines and
delivered it in the local mains at the connection points.
None was obtained in Missouri. Having received gas
at the connection points the several local companies dis-

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. v. LANDON.
236.

Opinion of the Court.

tributed and sold it, collected established rates and settled
with The Gas Company as agreed. Approximately fortyfour per cent. of the total was thus sold to customers in
Kansas and fifty-six per cent. in Missouri.
October 9, 1912, the United States District Court for
Kansas appointed receivers for The Gas Company and
shortly thereafter, acting under ยง 56, Judicial Code, extended the receivership to Missouri and Oklahoma. It is
unnecessary to detail subsequent changes in respect
of this receivership. The receivers took over the company's property, affairs and business and operated them
under orders of the court; without specifically adopting
or disavowing the supply contracts of 1904-1908 they
continued to deliver gas to local distributing companies
and to accept payments as originally agreed.
Available gas diminished; pipe lines to new wells became necessary; operating costs increased; and the sums
received from local distributing companies were inadequate
for the receivers' demands. In 1915 they petitioned the
Kansas Public Utilities Commission to permit higher
charges to customers by local companies. Responding
the Commission authorized, December 10, 1915, what
is known as the "28 Cent Schedule "-much below the
rates requested.
Claiming jurisdiction over distribution and sale of gas
in that State and power to fix the rates which local companies should both pay and charge therefor, the Missouri
Public Service Commission suspended some proposed advanced rates to consmners and threatened to enforce
further appropriate orders if found necessary. Certain
local companies, notably the Kansas City Gas Company,
insist that the receivers should comply with the original
supply contracts between them and The Gas Company.
In December, 1915, the receivers began this proceeding
against Kansas Public Utilities Commission, Missouri
Public Service Commission, thirty-two local distributing

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of.the Court.

249 U. S.

companies and forty-seven cities and towns in those States.
After setting out the history of The Gas Company the bill
alleged that the above-described actions by state commissions resulted in imposing upon the receivers inadequate and confiscatory rates and unduly burdened the
interstate commerce which they were carrying on by transporting and selling gas; that the original supply contracts
with distributing companies, although never adopted by
them, were improvident, wasteful, a fraud upon creditors
ard no longer obligatory; that the city ordinances fixing
prices to customers were unreasonable, non-compensatory and confiscatory of estate and property in the receivers' hands. They asked an appropriate injunction
restraining the commissions, municipalities and distributing companies from interfering with establishment
of reasonable and compensatory rates for selling gas., to
consumers.
The court below held the business carried on by the receivers-transportation of natural gas and its disposition
and sale to consumers -through the distributing companies
-was interstate commerce of a national character; that
the commissions' actions interfered with establishment
and maintenance of reasonable sale rates and thereby
burdened interstate commerce and took the receivers'
property without due process of law; that the original
supply contracts were not binding upon the receivers.
And it accordingly enjoined the commissions, their
members, the attorneys general of both States, the
various municipalities and the distributing companies from
-interfering 'with establishment of such reasonable and
compensatory rates as the court might approve.
We think the trial court properly overruled the objections offered to its jurisdiction and. nothing need be
added to the reasons which it gave. 234 Fed. Rep. 152,
155. But we cannot agree with its conclusions that local
companies in distributing and selling gas to their customers

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. v. LANDON.
236.

Opinion of the Court.

acted as mere agents, immediate representatives or instrumentalities of the receivers and as such carried on without interruption interstate commerce set in motion by
them.
That the transportation of gas through pipe lines from
one State to another is interstate commerce may not be
doubted. Also, it is clear that as part of such commerce
the receivers might sell and deliver gas so transported
to local distributing companies free from unreasonable
interference by the State. American Express Co. v.
Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, 143; Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229; Haskell v. Kansas Natural Gas
Co., 224 U. S. 217.
But in no proper sense can it be said, under the facts
here disclosed, that stle and delivery of gas to their customers at burner-tips by the local companies operating
under special franchises constituted any part of interstate commerce. The companies received supplies which
had moved in such commerce and then disposed thereof
at retail in due course of their own local business. Payment to the receivers of sums amounting to two-thirds
of the product of these sales did not make them integral
parts of their interstate business. In fact, they lacked
authority to engage -by agent or otherwise in the retail
transactions carried on by the local companies. Interstate commerce is a practical conception and what falls
within it must be determined upon consideration of established facts and known commercial methods. Rearick
v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, 512; The Pipe Line Cases,
234 U. S. 548, 560. The thing which the receivers actually
did was to deliver supplies to local companies. Exercising
franchise rights, the latter distibuted and sold the commodity so obtained upon their own account and paid the
receivers what amounted to two-thirds of their receipts
from customers. Interstate movement ended when the
gas passed into local mains. The court below erroneously

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllhbus.

249 U. S.

adopted the contrary view and upon it rested the conclusion that the Public Commissions were interfering with
establishment of compensatory rates by the receivers in
violation of their rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The challenged orders related directly to prices for gas
at burner-tips and only indirectly to the receivers' business. They were under no compulsion to accept unremunerative prices; even the original supply contracts
had not been adopted and were subject to rejection. See
N,wark Natural Gas & Fuel Co. v. Newark, 242 U. S.
405. Our conclusion concerning relationship between the
receivers and local companies renders it unnecessary
to discuss the effect of rates prescribed for the latter. The
receivers were in no position to complain of them.
The decrees below must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

GRATIOT COUNTY STATE BANK v. JOHNSON, AS
TRUSTEE OF THE ST. LOUIS CHEMICAL COMPANY, BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN..

No. 148.

Submitted January 20, 1919.-Decided March 17, 1919.

Although an adjudicati6n of bankruptcy concludes all the world as
to the status of the debtor qua bankrupt, it does not bind strangers

as to the facts or subsidiary questions of law upon which it is based.
P. 248.
In a suit by the trustee to recover, as illegal preferences, payments

made by the bankrupt, within four months before the filing of the

