UNITED RAILROADS v. SAN FRANCISCO.

517

Syllabus.

515.

attacked by plaintiff. The contention, however, is that
the courts below, one of which tried the case, were wrong
in their estimate of the evidence and that plaintiff was
entitled to the judgment of the jury upon it. We are
unable to yield to the contention. Nor do we think it
necessary to give a review of the evidence. It will be
found in the opinion of the court and we have verified
its correctness. The case turns, therefore, upon an appreciation of the testimony and admissible inferences
therefrom, and even if the conclusions of the courtswere
more disputable we should have to defer to them. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. S. 169; Erie
R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED RAILROADS OF SAN FRANCISCO v. CITY
AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 282.

Argued March 25, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A general law, in force when a street railroad franchise was granted
by a city, provided that in no case must two railroad corporations
occupy and use the same street for more than five blocks; and the
franchise ordinance, referring to the law, expressed a like limitation
on the power of the board of supervisors, as to the streets covered
by the franchise. Held, that the limitation was not intended to
affect the city when constructing a street railroad of its own under
a later amendment of the law and of the state constitution. P. 519.
Held, further, that the grantee took the risk of this judicial intetpretation of its franchise and of the city's railroad being run in the
same streets on either side of its own, and that any damage inevitably resulting was not a taking of its property requiring resort to
eminent domain. P. 520.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Semble, that the damage referred to in the California Constitution
of 1879, Art. I, § 14, requiring compensation before private property
is taken or damaged for public use, is such as results from conduct
that would be tortious unless under eminent domain proceedings
or some law authorizing it on condition that damages be paid.
P. 521.
The plaintiff having failed to establish its right- to enjoin the construction of the city's railroad alongside its own, as a violation of
franchise rights and taking of property, and the road having been
built pendente lite, and the right to recover for any damage due to
track-crossings, manner of operation, etc., being doubtful, nonequitable in character and dependent on the taking of new evidenceHeld, that a decree dismissing the bill should be affirmed, without
prejudice to further proceedings to recover any damage to which
plaintiff might be entitled. Id.
The charter provision requiring the City of San Francisco to consider
offers for the sale of existing public utilities before constructing
new ones affords no ground for a street railroad company to oppose
construction of a municipal road alongside its tracks, when such
company, in common with others, had received from the board of
supervisors a general solicitation fdr such offers as to any existing
street railway. Pv 522.
239 Fed. Rep. 987, affirmed.

THE. case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Garret W. McEnerney, with whom Mr. William M.
Abbott, Mr. William M. Cannon and Mr. Andrew F. Burke
were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Hiram W. Johnson, with whom Mr. George Lull
and Mr. John J. Dailey were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the appellant to
prevent the construction of a municipal street railway
on Market street and adjoining streets in San Francisco
with tracks on the two sides of the plaintiff's double track,
for more than five blocks, and also to prevent the inci-

UNITED RAILROADS v.SAN FRANCISCO.
517.

51

Opinion of' the Court.

dental cutting of the plaintiff's tracks. The appellant
claims the right by grant and contract to forbid the proposed action and relies upon the Constitution of the
United States, upon the state constitution which provides
that private property shall not be taken or damaged for
public use without just compensation having first been
made, and upon Article XII, § 2 of the charter of the city,
requiring it to consider offers for the sale of existing public
utilities before constructing new ones. The answer denies
that damage to the plaintiff will ensue from the new tracks
'and denies as matter of law that the plaintiff has the
contract or property rights alleged. On application for a
preliminary injunction the District Court held that the
,plaintiff had failed to make out a case for it, and-denied
it, intimating an opinion against the plaintiff upon the
matter of law involved. It then entered what is called,
a final decree, denying all relief to the plaintiff with costs
to the defendant. 239 Fed. Rep. 987. The present appeal is from that decree.The franchise of the plaintiff to maintain its two tracks
on Market street was granted to its predecessor in title
in September, 1879. At .that time by § 499 of the Civil
Code of California, "two corporations may be permitted
to use the same street, each paying an equal portion for
the construction of the track; but in no case must two
railroad corporations occupy and use the same street or
track for a distance of more than five blocks." The
existence of this general law is the first ground relied upon
for the assertion of exclusive rights in the street by, the
plaintiff. The other ground is the order of the Board of
Supervisors of San Francisco granting the franchise, and
especially § 5 which is as follows: "It shall be lawful for
the Board of Supervisors of the city and county of San
Francisco to grant to one other corporation, and no more,
the right to use either of the aforesaid streets for a distance of five blocks, and no more, upon the terms'and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

conditions specified in the 499th section of the civil code
of this State. This section shall apply to persons and companies, as well as. corporations." We agree with the
District Court that these sections did not give to the
plaintiff the right it claims.
The section of the Code would seem to be a limitation
of the powers conferred upon the Board of Supervisors
by that and the adjoining sections, not a contract by
the State, or an authority to the Board to contract,
against a larger use of the streets. It most naturally is
read as merely a general law declaring the present legislative policy of the State. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co.
v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 138 U. S. 287, 292; Williams v.
Wingo, 177 U. S. 601; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v.
Powers, 191 U. S.379, 387; San Jose-Los Gatos Interurban
Ry. Co. v. San Jose Ry. Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 455, 458. But
however this may be neither that section nor § 5 of the
order granting the franchise purports in terms to prevent the city from itself establishing a parallel road. If
it be true, as the plaintiff argues, that the grant or contract in § 5 of the order means what the statute means
and is to be construed by that, we have suggested what
seems to us the natural construction of the act. But in
-any event it is decided by Knoxvillc Water Co. v. Knoxrille, 200 U. S.22, that a covenant by a city not to grant
to any other person or corporation a privilege similar to
that granted to the covenantee does not restrict the city
from itself exercising sinilar power; and it is assumed in
that case, that the principle already is established as to
legislative grants. 200 U. S. 34. That is the assumption
also of an amendment of § 499 by an Act of April 24, 1911.
[Stats. 1911, c. 580.] The city now is given power to
establish and operate transportation service by the amendment of § 499 just. mentioned and by the constitution of
the State. Article, XI, § 19. Amendment approved
October 10, 1911. The plaintiff took the risk of the

UNITED RAILROADS r..
SAN FRANCISCO.
517.

521

Opinion of the Court.

judicial interpretation of its franchise and of this possible
event. Madera Water Works v. Madera, 228 U. S. 454.
Of course, so far as the harm to the plaintiff is an inevitable consequence of the city's doing what the plaintiff's
franchise did not make it unlawful for the city to do, the
infliction of that harm is not a taking of the plaintiff's
property that requires a resort to eminent domain.
We understand that the municipal road now has been
built, and the question is whether to retain the bill for a
claim of damages. But as that would require new evidence and practically would present a new case, and as
further, wifh such light as we now have, the right to damages seems at least doubtful, we deem it sufficient if the
rights of the plaintiff, if any, in that regard, are reserved.
The question is raised pointedly by Article I, § 14, of the
Constitution of 1879. That provides that "private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without
just compensation having first been made," &c. The
plaintiff seems to argue that this section entitles it to
preliminary compensation for any considerable pecuniary
detriment that the city may inflict by the establishment
of the new road, however lawfully it may act. Courts
and judges have differed widely in their interpretation of
this class of provisions in statutes of different sorts; but
we should suppose, until otherwise instructed by the
Supreme Court of the State, that the damage referred to
in this section of the state constitution in the main would
be damage resulting from conduct that, like taking, would
be tortious unless in proceedings under eminent domain
or some law authorizing it on condition that damages be
paid.
As to crossing the plaintiff's tracks we are inclined to
agree with the District Court that the plaintiff's franchise must be understood to be subject to this incident
and that a taking by eminent domain was not necessary.
Market Street Ry. Co. v. Central Ry. Co., 51 California,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
SvIllibus.

249 U. S.

583. Consolidated Traction Co. v. South Orange & Maplewood Traction Co., 56 N. J. Eq. 569, 574, et seq. 3 Dillon
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., § 1241, p. 1983. If we
are wrong and if the crossings or the manner of operating
the parallel tracks should give or has given rise to any
claim, the decree will be without prejudice to such claim.
We assume in accordance with the plaintiff's evidence
and argument that the damage may be considerable and
we think it just to leave open whatever can be left open,
but at present we cannot say that the loss is or. will be of
such a character that it must be paid for, and we are
satisfied that it is not such as to call for equitable relief.
A general solicitation of offers for sale to the city of
any existing street railway in San Francisco was passed
by the Board of Supervisors and was ordered to be sent
and was sent to the plaintiff, among others. We agree
with the District Court that Article XII, § 2 of the City
Charter does not better the plaintiff's case.
Decree affirmed without prejudice to further proceedings
to recover any damages to which the plaintiff may be
entitled.

CHALKER, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON
OF ESTATE OF WRIGHT, ET AL. v. BIRMINGHAM & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 283.

Argued March 25, 26, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A state law making the amount of annual tax for the privilege of doing

railroad construction work depend on whether the person taxed

has his chief office in the State, viz., $25.00 if he has and $100.00 if

