ARANT v. LANE.
Syllabus.

361.

petent to justly determine what the unouint of damage
would be, an amount necessarily largely conjectural and
resting in estimate, than a court or jury would be, directed to a conclusion, as either must be, after the event,
by views and testimony derived from witnesses who
would be unusual to a degree if their conclusions were
not, in a measure, colored and partisan.
There is nothing in the contract or in the record to
indicate that the parties did not take into consideration,
when estimating the amount of damage which would be
caused by delay, the prospect of one building being delayed
and the other not, and the amount of the damages stipulated, 'havingiregard to the circumstances of the case,
may well have been adopted with reference to the probability of such a result.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. ARANT v. LANE,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COL:UMBIA.
No. 441.

Argued March 6, 7, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.

Under the Code of the District of Columbia, as on general principle,
the allowance of the writ of mandamus is a matter of sound judicial
discretion, and applications therefor are limited as to time by the
equitable doctrine of laches and are not within the general statutes
of limitations. P. 371.
After his removal from office and forcible ejection from a government
office building, relator waited 20 months before applying for mandamus against his superior, the Secretary of the Interior, to compel
reinstatement. In the absence of a satisfactory (xplhaition. hocl,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

that the delay amounted tolaches, it appearing that another alpointee had meantime been filling the office, performing its duties
and drawing the salary.
47 App. D. C. 336, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. Prescott Gatley, with whom, Mr. Samuel Maddox
and Mr. J. H. Carnahan were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error, besides arguing the merits, urged that the mere
lapse of time was not enough to bar the relief sought, because the petition averred that from the time of his removal the relator mad6 every reasonable effort to have his
rights recognized and to be restored to his position, but
without avail, and by his attorneys had made 'formal
request for restoration; which allegations were not properly denied. The relator was not to be condemned because he did not fly to the courts without exhausting the
possibilities of amicable adjustment. Rather should the
law, which discourages litigation, commend his course.
And the delay had worked no harm. There was no pretense of loss of evidence; no change of situation; no intervening rights of innocent third parties. The question
was one of law, pure and simple, without dispute of fact.
And surely, in such circumstances, the doctrine of laches
ought not to be allowed to act as a cloak for a grievous
injustice. The fact that a successor had drawn the salary
did not affect the situation, for relator, if unlawfully removed, was entitled to the compensation of the office
(United States v. Wickersham, 201 U. S. 390), whether
successful in this proceeding or not.
Under c. 42 of the Code of the District of Columbia,
§§ 1273-1282, mandamus is a writ of right. It is a commonlaw remedy, Heine v, Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655;
Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66; Decatur v. Paulding,
14 Pet. 524; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; and
§ 1265 of the Code is applicable, allowing three years

ARANT v. LANE.
367.

Opinion of- the Court.

within which to bring action. Laches is no defense to a
law action. Roller v. Clark, 38 App. D. C. 260, 266;
Wchrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S' 314, 326; Abraham v.
Crdway, 158 U. S. 416, 422; Barbour v. Moore, 10 App.
D. C. 30, 47.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown for defendant
in error.
MR. Jusriac& CLARYkE delivered the opinion of the court.
The relator, on April 30, 1915, filed his petition in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of
mandamus against Franklin K. Lane, as Secretary of the
Interior.
He. alleged: That when serving as the duly appointed
superintendent of Crater Lake National Park on June 7,
1913, the defendant requested him to resign; that protesting against such removal from office, he demanded
that he be furnished with a statement in writing of the
reasons for his removal and that he be given a reasonable
time in which to answer; that upon June 28th, he received
a telegram from the defendant notifying him that he had
becn removed, and directing that he should transfer all
Government property to his successor, who was named;
that he refused to relinquish his position or to transfer
the property until convinced that the order for his removal was lawful; and that upon July 20, he was forcibly
ejected from the Government office building and the reccords and papers of his office were seized by Government
officials.
He further averred: That as such superintendent he
was in the classified Civil Service of the Government and
that he could not lawfully be removed therefrom "except
for such cause as would promote the efficiency" of the
service and for reasons stated in writing, which he must

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

be given a reasonable opportunity to answer; that on
July 1st, 1913, he notified thedefendant that he was
able and willing to perform the duties of his office, that
'he had so continued to the time of the filing of his petition
and that he had made every reasonable effort to be restored to his position, but without avail.
His prayer was that the defendant be required to
answer his petition and that upon hearing a writ of mandamus should issue requiring the defendant to vacate
the order for his dismissal, and to restore him to his former
office.
In response to a rule to show cause the defendant filed
an answer, containing, among other things, this paragraph:
"10. He denies the allegations of paragraph 10 to the
extent that the same attempt to show that he has made
every reasonable effort to be restored to the office of
superintendent as aforesaid, in this: That if relator
were improperly or unlawfully removed from said office,
under circumstances such as to justify the interference
of the courts, such condition existed immediately upon
relator's removal from office and upon the Secretary's refusal to continue hin in said office; notwithstanding which
and notwithstanding that since said time, to wit, July 1,
1913, another person has been appointed to and has d&scharged the duties of said office and has received the
salary and allowance therefor appropriated from time
to time by Congress, the relator did not seek recourse
to the courts until the lapse of nearly two years, and
therein has by his gross laches barred any right to the
relief sought if any such right ever existed."
A denmurrer to this answer or return was filed stating
as a ground: "Because no cause is shown in and by said
return why a writ of mandamus should not issue as prayed
in the relator's petition."
This demulTer was overruled and, the relator electing
to stand on his demurrer, his petition was dismissed.

ARANT v. LANE.
367.

Opinion of the Court.

It will be seen from this statement that although the
relator was definitely removed from office as of June 30,
1913, and was forcibly ejected from the Government
office building on July 20, 1913, he did not file his petition
until more. than twenty months later, April 30, 1915.
His only explanation for this delay is the allegation,
"which was denied, that he had made every reasonable
effort to :have his rights in the premises accorded him and
to be restored to office, but without avail.
Without discussion of the authority of the Secretary
of the Interior to remove the relator without filing charges
against him and giving him an opportunity to answer, the
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia on the ground of laches,
and the case is here on writ of error.
In this conclusion we fully concur.
This court has lately said that while mandamus is
classed as a legal remedy, it is a remedial process which
is awarded, not hs a matter of right, but in the exercise
of.a sound judicial discretion and upon equitable principles, Duncan Toumsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308. It
is an extraordinary remedy, which will not be allowed
in cases of doubtful right, Life & Fire Insurance Co.,
v. Wilson,. 8 Pet. 291., 302, and it is generally regarded
as not embraced within statutes of limitation .applicable
to ordinary actions, but as subject to the equitable doctrine of laches. Chapman v. County of Douglas, 107 U. S.
348, 355; Duke v. Turner, 204 U. S. 623, 628.
The remedy is provided: for in a separate -chapter
(c. 42) of the Code for the District of Columbia with
detailed requirements which diffe so. greatly from the
pleading and practice prescribed 'for -ordinary actions
that we cannot doubt that Congress intended to continue
the special character which has been given the proceeding
from our early judicial history, United States v. Lawrence,
3 Dall. 42; Life & Fire Insurance Co. v. Wilson, supr';

.372

37(O'rOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and we cannot discoter any intention to include it within
the general provisions for the limitation of actions.
(.§ 1265.)
When a public official is unlawfully removed from
office, whether from disregard of the law by his superior
orifrom mistake as to the facts of his case, obvious considerations of public policy make it of first importance
that 'he should promptly take the action requisite to
effectively assert his rights, to the end that if his contention be justified the Government service may be disturbed
as little as possible and that two salaries shall not be paid
for a single service.
Under circumstances which rendered his return to the
service impossible, except under the order of a court,
the relator did nothing to effectively assert his claim for
reinstatement to.'office for almost two years. Such a
long delay must necessarily result in changes in the branch
of the' service to which he was attached and in such an
accumulation of unearned salary that, when unexplained,
the manifest inequity which would result from reinstating
him renders the application of the doctrine of laches
to his case peculiarly appropriate in the interests of justice and sound public policy.
In this conclusion we are in full agreement with many
state courts in dealing with similar problems. McCabe
v. Police Board, 107 Louisiana, 162; Stone v. Board of
Prison Commissioner: -164 Kentucky, 640;. ConnoUy v.
Board of Education, 99 N. Y. .Supp. 737, and cases cited;
Clark v. City f Chicago,'233 Illinois, 113.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that it-is entirely
unnecessary to consider whether the removal of the relator from office was technically justified or not, since'
by his own conduct he has forfeited the right tob!ave
thb action of the Secretary of the Interior reviewed, and
the judgment of that court is therefore
Affirmed.

