O'PRY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

313.

with-the Company, to declare an emergency in its need
and enter into a contract with other companies.
On January 13th the Government made a motion to
remand the case to the Court of Claims for additional
findings. It was denied, but the right reserved to make
such order if we should be so advised. Our attention is
directed to the motion, which it is submitted should be
considered on the merits. Again considering the motion
and the case as it has been developed by argument of
counsel, we think the motion should not be granted. The
judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

O'PRY, SOLE SURVIVING DESCENDANT AND
SOLE HEIR OF KOUNS, ETC., ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 216.

Argued March 12, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.

The Act of July 2, 1864, c. 225, 13 Stat. 375, § 8, providing for the
purchase for the United States at designated places of the products
of States declared in insurrection, at not exceeding three-fourths
their New York market value, was strictly in addition, as its title
declared, to the Abandoned Property Act of 1863, and not an amendment of that act in the sense of § 162 of the Judicial Code, which
gives jurisdiction to the Court'of Claims over claims for property
taken under the latter act and amendments and sold. P. 328.
The words "addition" and "amendment," as applied to statutes,
may or may not have the same meaning, according to the purpose.
P. 330.
51 Ct. Clms. ill, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
249 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. William E. Harvey were on the brief, for appellants.

Mr. Assistant.Attorney General Brown for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.,

Section 162 of the Judicial Code, enacted March 3,
1911, provides as follows:
"The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear
and determine the claims of those whose property was
taken subsequent to June 1, 1865, under the provisions
of the Act of Congress approved March 12, 1863, entitled 'An Act to provide for the collection of abandoned
property and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts within the United States,' and Acts amendatory thereof where the property so taken was sold and
the net proceeds thereof were placed in the Treasury of
the United States; and the Secretary of the Treasury shall
return said net proceeds to the owners thereof, on the
judgment of said court, and full jurisdiction is given to
said court to adjudge said claims, any statutes of limitations to the contrary notwithstanding."
To avail herself of that section Isabel Kouns O'Pry
alleged herself to be the sole surviving descendant and
sole heir of John Kouns and brought this suit in the
Court of Claims and for grounds thereof set forth the
following facts: June 6, 1865, George L. Kouns and John
Kouns were owners of 900 bales of cotton in two lots, of
which 350 bales had been raised in Texas and 550 bales.
raised in Louisiana, and which after the

(.

:aion of

O'PRY r. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hostilities were brought to New Orleans, June 6, 1865.
The cotton was worth the sum of $123,110.
On that date-June 6, 1865-the Act of Congress of
July 2, 1864, c. 225, 13 Stat. 375, was in force, §8 of which
made it lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury with
the approval of the President to authorize agents to
purchase for the United States products of States declared in insurrection at designated places at such prices
as might be agreed on with the seller, not exceeding
three-fourths of the market value at the latest quotation
in the city of New York. [The other provisions of the
statute are not necessary to quote.]
The Act of July 2, 1864, was an amendment of the
Act of March 12, 1863, entitled "An Act to provide for
the Collection of abandoned Property and for the Prevention of Frauds in insurrectionary Districts within the
United States." (12 Stat. 820.)
In pursuance of the authority thus conferred the Secretary of the Treasury designated, among other cities,
the city of New Orleans as a place of purchase and by
a subsequent regulation directed that the agents appointed
should receive all the cotton brought to the places designated as places of purchase and forthwith return to, the
seller three-fourths of the cotton or sell the same and
retain out of the price thereof the difference between
three-fourths of the market price and the full price
thereof in the city of New York.
The agent appointed at New Orleans was Otis N.
Cutler, and, on the arrival of the Kouns cotton, Cutler,
as such agent, took possession of it and refused to release
the same or to allow the owners to have any custody of
it until they paid him one-fourth of its market value,
being the sum of $30,777.50. They paid the same under
protest and it was placed in the Treasury of the United
States, where it remains.
June 13, 1865, the President removed by proclamation

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

all restrictions upon intercourse and trade in products
of States theretofore in insurrection and theretofore
imposed in the territory east [italics ours] of the Mississippi River.
Thereafter the Kounses brought suit in a New York
court against Cutler, which was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York. The ground of Cutler's liability was alleged
to be that his retention of the cotton and the exaction
of money from them was unwarranted in law. They
recovered judgment, but it was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the United States (Cutler v. Kouns, 110 U. S.
720), and a new trial ordered. The suit was then dismissed.
The loyalty of the appellants is alleged. The Court
of Claims dismissed the suit upon the demurrer of the
Government. The court expressed the opinion that the
claim did not come either "within the letter or the spirit
of section 162 and the correlative statutes" and said: "At
the time of this transaction the Kouns firm could not have
made any disposal of the cotton in question had it not
been for the provisions of said § 8, it being insurrectionary
territory. That section prescribed the method, and the
conditions uponwhich it might be sold to the Government.
The firm complied with those conditions and were doubtless glad to do so. We do not think where one only complies with the law in his transaction with the Government
in the sale of cotton and receives all that the law allows
him he has any valid claim under § 162 of the Judicial
Code."
To fulfill the conditions of necessary parties on account
of a doubt expressed by the court, there was an intervening petition by Charles Schneidau, assignee in bankruptcy
of George L. Kouns. He adopted the petition of Isabel
Kouns O'Pry "and jointly with her claims as therein
prayed."
By order of the court the petition was amended and

O'PRY v. UNITED STATES.

323.

Opinion of the Court.

Schneidau made a party claimant. The Government's
demurrer to the petition as amended was sustained.
The case is not in broad compass, involving as it does
only the relation and construction of statutes, but it is
not easy to state it briefly. The petition recites, as we
have seen, that the Kounses in their lifetime brought
suit against the agent of the Government, Cutler, who
had seized the cotton in New Orleans and exacted payment from them of one-fourth of its value, granting them,
however, the indulgence of paying it in three installments,
respectively, June 12, June 15, and June 20, 1865. They
charged Cutler with an unlawful seizure of the cotton
and an unlawful exaction of the money. They obtained
judgment in the Circuit Court, but the judgment was
reversed by this court, 110 U. S. 720, and the following
is, so far as material, a summary of the decision in the
case:
In consequence of the Act of July 13, 1861, c. 3, 12
Stat. 255, it was lawful for the President to declare that
the inhabitants of all States in rebellion against the
United States were in a state of insurrection and that
all commercial intercourse between them should cease
and be unlawful so long as such condition of hostilities
should continue. And August 16, 1861 (12 Stat. 1262)
the States of Texas and Louisiana were declared to be
in like condition and intercourse was forbidden between
them and other States and parts of the United States.
On April 26, 1862, the city of New Orleans, however,
was occupied by the National forces and from that date
was excepted from the operation of the Non-intercourse
Act.
In this state of affairs Congress passed the Act of July
2, 1864, referred to in the petition, § 8 of which authorized
the purchase of products of States declared in insurrection, which included the cotton in suit, and it was seized
by virtue of such authority and the payments mentioned

()XJ'I{'BIR TERM, 1918.
opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

exacted. It was contended that the cotton was exempt
from such action by proclamation of the President of
June 13, .3865. The contention was rejected, the cotton
not being, as it was said, the product of territory east of
the Mississippi River. It was, however, further urged
that the President's proclamation of June 24, 1865, removed all restrictions as well from products of territory
west of the Mississippi River. To this it was replied that
upon the arrival of the cotton in New Orleans the rights
of the Government to it became fixed and that at such
time "one-fourth its value Was as much the property of
the government as the other three-fourths were the
property of the defendants in error [the Kounses]. No
proclamation of the President could transfer the property
of the government to them." It was hence decided that
Cutler "had authority under the law and regulations of
the Treasury Department to exact the money" which
the suit was brought to recover. The defense of the statute of limitations was also sustained.
It is now asserted that notwithstanding such decision
a claim has accrued to appellants by virtue of § 162 of
the Judicial Code upon which they are entitled to recover.
It will be observed by reference to that section that the
Court of Claims is given jurisdiction of claims of those
whose property was taken subsequent to June 1, 1865,
under the provisions of the Act of March 12, 1863, "and
Acts amendatory thereof," where .the property was sold
and its net proceeds were placed in the Treasury 'of the
United States, and they are directed to be returned upon
judgment rendered for the claimant. Appellants invoke
the relief of these provisions by the contention that the
cotton was taken under the provisions of the Act of
MArch 12, 1S63, because the Act of July 2, 1864, was an
amendment to it, and that therefore the provision of
§ 162 of the Judicial Code is completely satisfied; in
ot her words, that the money exacted was taken under the

O'PRY v. UNITED STATES.
323.

Opinion of the Court.

Act of March 12, 1863, "and Acts amendatory thereof."
It is further contended that the conditions of §162 being
thus satisfied it is no answer to say that the seizure of the
cotton was legal, it being the intention of Congress to
declare that even in such case "the proceeds should be
returned to the owners." And this* contention counsel
offers as an answer to Cutler v. Kouns, supra, and that
Congress having by § 162 opened the doors of the Court
of Claims "to claimants whose property had been seized
after June 1, 1865, they can no longer be met with the
defense that because the seizure was lawful when made,
there can be no recovery on account of it. To sustain
such a defense would be to 'keep the word of promise
to the ear and break it to the hope."' The Government
opposes the contentions.
The Act of March 12, 1863, 12 Stat. 820, is entitled
"An act to provide for the Collection of abandoned Property and for the Prevention of Frauds in insurrectionary
Districts within the United States." Its first section
empowers the Secretary of the Treasury to appoint a
special agent or special agents to collect and receive all
abandoned or captured property in any State or Territory.
in insurrection, with an exception not material. Section 2
provides that the property so received or collected may
be put to public use or sold at public auction and the
proceeds thereof put into the Treasury of the United
-States. By § 3 a bound may be required of the agent or
agents, who may be required to keep a book or books of'
accounts showing those from whom the property was
received, the cost of transportation and proceeds of sale.
It is further provided that the owner of the property
may at any time within two years prefer a claim for the
proceeds thereof and upon proof of loyalty receive the
residue of the proceeds.
It will be observed that the act had a special purpose
and was directed to the receipt and collection of property

OU(')B It. TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

in a particular condition, either abandoned or captured,
recognizing, however, that there might be a just claim
to it, but limiting the assertion of the claim to two years
after the suppression of the rebellion.
The Act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 375, describes itself
to be "An Act in addition to the several Acts concerning
Commercial Intercourse between loyal and insurrectionary States, and to provide for the Collection of captured
and abandoned Property, and the Prevention of Frauds
in States declared in Insurrection." The act, therefore,
is declared to be an "addition" to preceding legislation,
not an amendment to it. Is an addition the same as
amendment? We are informed by the dictionaries that in
addition the added parts remain independent and by
amendment there is change and, it may be, improvement.
The words and the processes they respectively describe
may, however, be regarded as roughly or even accurately
interchangeable and in investigating the meaning of
legislation we must regard that possibility and resolve a
doubt in the words by the purpose of the legislation. In
other words, whatever the relation of the statutes, their
purpose must be looked to to determine the.application to
them of § 162. So looked to, we agree with the Government that the purpose of the Act of July 2, 1864, demonstrates the contrary of the contention of appellants, and
that the act was strictly in addition to prior acts and
not an amendment of the Act of March 12, 1863, in the
sense asserted. The latter act applied to a different situation. The cotton collected under it and to which its
provisions applied might be the property of those innocent
of disloyalty but victims of the disorder and violence of
the times, and the Government constituted itself a trustee
for them and gave them the opportunity, at any time
within two years after the suppression of the rebellion, to
establish their right to the proceeds, requiring of them
Tiothing but proof of loyalty and ownership. Unied States

LANE r. 1)ARLIN(.TO)N.
323.

Syllabus.

v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 65; United States v. Padelford,9
Wall. 531; United States *¢.
Klein, 13 Wall. 128.
The cotton in the present case, unlike that to which the
Act of March 12, 1863, applied, was the subject of a
business enterprise and taken to a market opened by the
United States forces upon the conditions expressed in the
Act of July 2, 1864-that is, that its owners should turn
over to the Government one-fourth of the cotton, or its
money equivalent, which would immediately become the
property of the United States. Cutler v. Kouns, supra.
The conditions in the two situations, therefore, are in
broad contrast and it could not have been the intention
of § 162 to confound the conditions. The section did no
more than remove the bar of limitation of time to sue
that was given by the Act of March 12, 1863. It did not
intend to transfer property that had become that of the
United States.
Judgment affirmed.

LANE, SECRETARY OF TBE INTERIOR, v. DARLINGTON ET AL., TRUSTEES, ESTATE OF
CLAPP.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 219. Argued March 12, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.
An official resurvey of the boundary of a patented Mexican' grant, for
the purpose of defining contiguous public land, does. not operate
as an adjudication against the grant owner or otherwise so affect
his rights as to afford him ground for an injunction suit against the
Secretary of the Interior.
6 App. D. C. 465, reversed.
THE ca.se

is stated in the opinion.

