OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

application of the Constitution, is met by the suggestion
that this court has ample power under the Judicial Code
to review judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals, made
final in that court, by writs of certiorari. (ยง 240.)
Reaching the conclusion that the judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals 'were final in these cases, it follows

that the writs of error must be
Ditmised.

ALAA'SALMON COMPANY v. TERRITORY OF
ALASKA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FORTHE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 151.

Argued January 20, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

Decided on the authority of Alaska Pacific Fisheriesv. Alaska, ante, 53.
Writ of error to review 236 Fed. Rep. 62, dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Warren Gregory, Mr. E. S. McCord and Mr. W.
H. Bogle, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. George B. Grigsby, Attorney General of the Territory of Alaska, for defendant in error.
Memorandum by dirt--ction of the court, by MR. JUSTICE DAY.

This action was brought in the District Court of Alaska
by the Territory of Alaska to recover license taxes from
the Alaska Salmon Company. Judgment was rendered

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.
62.

Syllabus.

in the District Court in favor of the Territory. To review that judgment a writ of error was taken from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the
District Court. 236 Fed. Rep. 62. A petition for a
rehearing was filed, and denied. Petition for writ of
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals was denied in
this court. 242 U. S. 648.
The writ of error must be disnssed. The judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit was
final for the reasons set forth in Nos. 117 and 118, just decided, ante, 53.
Dismisaed.

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 142. Argued January 16, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.
When an assessment for a local improvement is made in accordance
with a fixed rule prescribed by legislative act, the property owner is
not entitled to be heard in advance on the question of benefits. P. 68.
Within this principle, an assessment made in accordance with the rule
prescribed by the charter of the City of St. Louis is legislative in
character, since that charter, having been adopted by direct vote
of the citizens under a special provision of the Missouri constitution, has, as respects local assessments, all the force of a legislative
act. P. 69. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 149 U. S. 465.
The method of assessing part of the cost of local improvements according to frontage, as provided in the St. Louis charter, is unassailable, under the previous decisions of this court. P. 70. Gast Realty
Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; s. c., 245 U. S. 288.
Objections based on the manner of laying dut an improvement district,
and on alleged failure to conform with the city charter, raise only
local questions. P. 70.

