OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

no discussion of the subject is required.
should be answered in the negative.

249 U. S.

That question

Answers directed accordingly.

For the reasons which prevented him from assenting in
No. 367, THE CHIEF JUSTICE also dissents in this case.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concur in the dissent.

L. A. WESTERMANN COMPANY. v. DISPATCH
PRINTING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Submitted November 15, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The liability imposed by § 25 of the Copyright Act attaches in respect
of each- copyright infringed, though by the same party. P. 105.
Several and distinct liabilities arise from several, distinct infringements of the same copyright by the same party. Id.
Where it is not shown that the infringer made profits, and it appears
by the evidence that the damages, though actual, cannot be estimated in money, damages "in lieu of actual damages and profits"
are assessable under § 25 of the Copyright Act. P. 106.
In such cases, the court's conception of what is just in the particular
case, considering the nature of the copyright, the circumstances of
the infringement, etc., is made the measure of the damages to be
pitid, but with the express qualification that the assessment must
be within the maximum and minimum limits prescribed by the section. Id.
The owner of separate copyrights for pictorial illustrations of styles
for women's appayel made a business of granting exclusive licenses,
restricted as to time and locality, for the use of the illustrations by
dealers in such apparel in advertising their goods, receiving con-

\VESTERMANN CO. v. DISPATCH CO.
100.

Argument for Respondent.

pensation therefor. In a city covered by such a license, the owner
of a newspaper issued daily in thousands of copies widely circulated,
published, without the consent of the copyright owner or its licensee,
in advertisements of business rivals of the latter, six of the copyrighted illustrations, separately, each in a distinct issue and in all
the copies of the paper, five being so published but once, the other
twice, in independent advertisements for different advertisers,
separated by an interval of some days. Held, that there were seven
distinct infringements, and that the damages "in lieu of actual damages and profits" under § 25 of the Copyright Act could not be less
than $250 for each case.
233 Fed. Rep. 609, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Curtis C. Williams for petitioner.
Nash was also on the brief.

Mr. Simeon

Mr. Smith W. Bennett and Mr. Luther Day for respondent:
Section 25 of the Copyright Act was intended to provide
(1) relief by injunction, and (2) relief by way of damages,
declared not to be penal. In providing for a recovery of a
sum within the prescribed limits, in lieu of actual damages, Congress did not mean to enact a penalty but, recognizing the character of the actual damage done, prorides that when actual damages are proven which cannot
be measured in dollars and cents, then the court may, in
the exercise of its sound discretion, award a sum within
the maximum and minimum limits. That is, this law
obviated the strict necessity of proving the exact amount
of the damage without negativing the necessity for proof
of some real damage done. To place any other construction on the section would be to make that which is recovered by it a penalty, pure and simple.
Before the adoption of this Copyright Act, the rule was
that an award of nominal damages might be made when a
fight had been invaded or infringed and no damages

orOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

shown, but actual damages must be supported by competent testimony. New York City v. Ransom, 23 How.
487; Dobson v. Hartford Carpet Co., 114 U. S. 439; Coupe
v. Royer, 155 U. S. 565; Birdsall v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64;
Rude v. Westcott, 130 U. S. 152. This rule is applicable
as a rule of construction to the section now in question.
Woodman v. Lydiard-Peterson Co., 192 Fed. Rep. 67, 70;
204 Fed. Rep. 921; Alfred Decker Cohn Co. v. Etchison
Hat Co., 225 Fed. Rep. 135, 136; Hendricks Co. v. Thomas
Publishing Co., 242 Fed. Rep. 37.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a bill for an injunction against future infringement of certain copyrights and to recover damages for
past infringement. The injunction w"as granted and in
this both parties acquiesced. In addition, the District
Court found that there were seven cases of infringement
and awarded $10 as nominal damages for each case-$70
in all. The plaintiff appealed, insisting that for each case
it was entitled under the copyright law to an award of
not less than $250. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained that contention, but held that what the District
Court regarded as seven cases was only one and directed
that the decree be modified by. awarding $250, instead
of $70, as damages. 233 Fed. Rep. 609. A writ of certiorari granted on the plaintiff's petition brings the matter
here.
Whether there were seven cases of infringement or only
one, and whether the damages should have been assessed
at not less than $250 for each case, are the questions to
be considered. The facts bearing on the solution of these
questions are as follows:
The plaintiff designs and produces pictorial illustrations of styles in women's apparel and supplies the same
to dealers in stch apparel for use in' advertising their

WESTERMANN CO.
100.

i.

DISPATCH CO.

Opinion of the Court.

goods. All the illustrations are separately copyrighted
and all authorized copies carry the required copyright
notice. The plaintiff grants exclusive licenses to use the
illustrations for limited periods, each license being restricted to a particular locality. The dealer obtaining the
license pays a fixed charge for it. Ordinarily the fact that
the license is exclusive makes it attractive, serves as an
incentive for paying the charge and is a helpful feature of
the plaintiff's business. But when infringers use the illustrations the strength of that feature diminishes and the
plaintiff's business suffers accordingly.
At the time of the infringing acts in question the Morehouse-Martens Company, a dealer at Columbus, Ohio,
had an exclusive license from the plaintiff covering the
use of the illustrations in that locality.
The defendant publishes at Columbus a daily newspaper, each issue comprising as many as 30,000 copies
widely circulated. Without the consent or authority
of the plaintiff or its licensee the defendant reproduced
and published in its newspaper six of the plaintiff's copyrighted illustrations. They were published separately,
each in a distinct issue and in all the copies. Five were
published once and the: other one twice, the illustrations
being used in each instance as part of an advertisement
by some competitor in trade of the plaintiff's licensee.
The two advertisemerLts having the same illustration
were by different advertisers and were separated by an
interval of twenty-six days.
The record, while showing that the plaintiff was damaged by the infringing publications, does not show the
amount of the damages, a matter which is explained by
undisputed testimony to the effect that the damages could
not be estimated or stated "in dollars and cents, or in
money." On this point the Circuit Court of Appeals
aptly said: "The plaintiff's damages rested in the injury
to his Morehouse contract. and in the discouragement (f

OCTOBER TEI{M, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and the tendency to destroy his system of business. To
make any accurate proof of actual damages was obviously
impossible." Whether the defendant made any profit
from the publications does not appear. In its bill the
plaintiff asked for what are termed statutory damages in
lieu of actual damages and profits.
The copyright statute, Act March 4, 1909, c. 320, 35
Stat. 1075, gives to one who copyrights a pictorial illustration the exclusive right to print, reprint, publish,
copy and vend the same (§§ 1 and 5), and provides (§ 25')
that one who infringes "the copyright in any work" so
protected shall be liable, among other things,"(b) To pay to the copyright proprietor such damages
as the copyright proprietor may have suffered due to the
infringement, as well as all the profits which the infringer
shall have made from such infringement . . . , or
in lieu of actual damages and profits such damages as to
the court shall appear to be just, and in assessing such
damages the court may, in its discretion, allow the amounts
as hereinafter stated, but in the case of a newspaper reproduction of a copyrighted photograph such damages
shall not exceed the sum of two hundred dollars nor be
less than the sum of fifty dollars, and such damages shall
in no other case exceed the sum of five thousand dollars
nor be less than the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars,
and shall not be regarded as a penalty:
"First. In the case of a painting, statue, or sculpture,
ten dollars for every infringing copy made or sold by or
found in the possession of the infringer or his agents or
employees;
"Second. In the case of any work enumerated in section five of this Act,' except a painting, statue, or sculpFor a subsequent amendment of this section see c. 356, 37 Stat.

488.
' "Prints and pictorial illustrations" are among the copyrightable
works enumeratpd in § 5.

WESTERMANN CO. v. DISPATCH CO.
100.

Opinion of the Court.

ture, one dollar for every infringing copy made or sold by
or found in the posse:ssion of the infringer or his agents
or employees;
"Third. In. the case of a lecture, sermon, or address,
fifty dollars for every infringing delivery;
"Fourth. In the -case of a dramatic or dramaticomusical or a choral or orchestral composition, one hundred
dollars for the first and fifty dollars for every subsequent
infringing performance; in the case of other musical compositions, ten dollars for every infringing performance."
The statute says that the liability thus defined is imposed for infringing, "the copyright in any" copyrighted
"work." The words are in the singular, not the plural.
Each copyright is treated as a distinct entity, and the in.fringement of it as a distinct wrong to be redressed through
the enforcement of this liability. Infringement of several
copyrights is not put on the same level with infringement
-of one. On the contrary, the plain import of the statute
is that this liability attaches in respect of each copyright that is infringed. Here six were infringed, each covering a different illustration. Thus there were at least six
cases of infringement in the sense of the statute. Was
there also another? The illustration covered by one of
the copyrights was published on two separate occasions,
each time in a different advertisement. There was no
connection between the two advertisements other than
the inclusion of the same illustration in both. Each was
by a different advertiser and was published at his in-.
stance and for his benefit. The advertisers were not joint,
but independent, infringers, neither having any connection
with what was done by the other. By publishing their
adverfisements, the defendant participated in their independent infringements. In these circumstances, we
think the second publication of the illustration must be
regarded as another and distinct case of infringement.
Whether it would be otherwise if that publication had

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

been merely a continuation or repetition of the first,
and what bearing the" third" and "fourth" subdivisions
of § 25, before quoted, would have on the solution of that
question, are matters which we have no occasion to consider now. They are mentioned only to show that no
ruling thereon is intended.
We conclude, as did the District Court, that there
were seven cases of infringement in the sense of the
statute.
On the question of the amount of damages to be awarded
for each case we are in accord with the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Both parties recognize that under the proofs
the damages must 'be assessed under the alternative provision requiring the infringer, in lieu of actual damages
and profits, to pay such damages as to the court shall
appear to be just, etc. The fact that these damages are
to be "in lieu of actual damages" shows that something
other than actual damages is intended-that another
measure is to be applied in making the assessment. There
is no uncertainty as to what that measure is or as to its
limitations. The statute says, first, that the damages
are to be such as to the court shall appear to be just;
next, that the court may, in its discreti6n, allow the
amounts named in the appended schedule, and finally,
that in no case shall they be more than $5,000 nor less
than $250, except that for a newspaper reproduction of a
copyrighted photograph they shall not be more than $200
nor less than $50. In other words, the court's conception
of what is just in the particular case, considering the nature
of the copyright, the circumstances of the infringement and
the like, is made the measure of the damages to be paid,
but with the express qualification that in every case the
assessment must be within the prescribed limitations,
that is to say, neither more than the maximum nor less
than the minimum. Within these limitations the court's
discretion and sense of justice are controlling, but it has

WESTERMANN CA). v. DISPATCH CO.
100.

Opinion of the Court.

no discretion when proceeding under this provision to go
outside of them.
Apart from the natural import of its words, the history
of the provision makes strongly for this view. An early
statute required the infringer of a copyright in a dramatic composition to pay such damages "as to the court
shall appear to be just," but "not less than" a prescribed
amount. Act August 18, 1856, c. 169, 11 Stat. 138;
Act July 8, 1870, c. 230, § 101, 16 Stat. 214. This statute
became §4966 of the Revised Statutes. A later statute
provided that the recovery for infringing a copyright in an
engraving should not be less than $250 nor more than
$10,000, arid for infringing a copyright in a photograph
of an object other than a work of art should not be less
than $100 nor more -than $5,000. Act March 2, 1895,
c. 194, 28 Stat. 965. •In 1909, when the copyright statutes
were revised, these provisions, and others without present
bearing, were brought together in the "in lieu" provision
now under consideration. True, they were broadened
so as to include other copyrights and the limitations were
changed in amount, but the principle on which they proceeded-that of committing the amount of damages to
be recovered to the court's discretion and sense of justice,
subject to prescribed limitations-was retained. The
new provision, like one of the old, says the damages shall
be such "as to the court shall appear to be just." Like
both the old, it prescribes a minimum limitation and, like
one, a maximum limitation.
In Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S. 148, which was an action
to recover for the infringement of a copyright in a dramatic
composition, the first of the earlier provisions-that in
§ 4966, Rev. Stats.-was much considered. The trial
court was of opinion that, while the damages were to be
such as appeared to it, to be just, it could not go below.
the prescribed minimum; and it made the assessment accordingly. In this court it was contended that in this view

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

the provision was penal and the action was one to recover
a penalty. But the contention was overruled and the
judgment affirmed, the court saying, pp. 154, 157:
"It is evident that in many cases it would b-qxFite difficult to prove the exact amount of damages" which tihe'
proprietor of a copyrighted, dramatic composition suffered
by reason of its unlawful production by another, and yet
it is also evident that the statute seeks to provide a remedy
for such a wrong and to grant to the proprietor the right
to recover the damages which he has sustained therefrom.
"The idea of the punishment of the wrongdoer is not
so much suggested by the language used in the statute as
is a desire to provide for the recovery by the proprietor
of full compensation from the wrongdoer for the damages
such proprietor has sustained from the wrongful act of the
latter. In the face of the difficulty of determining the
amount of such damages in all cases, the statute provides
a minimum sum for a recovery in any case, leaving it
open for a larger recovery upon proof of greater damage
in those cases where such proof can be made. The statute
itself does not speak of punishment or penalties, but
refers entirely to damages suffered by the wrongful act.
The person wrongfully performing or representing a dramatic composition is, in the words of the statute, 'liable
for damages therefor.' This means all the damages that
are the direct result of his wrongful act. The further provision in the statute, that those damages shall be at least
a certain sum named in the statute itself, does not change
the character of the statute and render it a penal instead
of a remedial one.'
"Although punishment, in a certain and very limited
sense, may be the result of the statute before us so far as
the wrongdoer is concerned, yet we think it clear such is
not its chief purpose, Which is the award of damages to
the party who had sustained them, and the minimum

WESTEIHMANN Co. v.
100.

)ISPATCH CO.

Opinion of the Court.

amount appears to us to have been fixed because of the
inherent difficulty of always proving by satisfactory evi.
dence what the amount is which has been- actually sus.
tained."
It was after the minimum limitation was thus recognized as of controlling force in the assessment of the damages that the terms of the provision then under 6onsideration were substantially repeated in the "in lieu" provision of the revised act. This hardly would have been
done had it not been intended that the limitation should
be as controllifig there as in the earlier statute. That it
was intended to be thus controlling is shown by the reports of the committees on whose recommendation the
act was passed. House Report No. 2222, and Senate
Report No. 1108, 60th Cong., 2d sess.
In our opinion the District Court erred in awarding less
than $250 damages in each of the seven cases and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding there was only one
case instead of seven.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUsic DAY did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

