OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

rely on those rulings? Their relation to the taxes, whatever it Was, was not as intimate as hers and hers would
Seem to have called for more solicitude and a demand by
her as necessary as suit by her. It seems, therefore, that
this suit is a postfact resolution and an experiment with
the situation after the indulgent period of 'the statute.
The Act of 1912 cannot be made so compliant. It had
its purpose and it is not satisfied by representative or
negative action; it requires a positive and individual assertion of claim. The condition was easy of performance,
its grant, a concession, and there is no room for the plea
to enlarge it beyond its words. It is direct and clear and
liberal enough of itself. It says to the taxpayer: Make a
claim for the tax you have paid, show its illegality, and
it will be repaid to you. We cannot, relax its requirements--certainly not on the assumption that they might
have been useless if complied with.
We see no reason for granting the motion for further
findings nor the motion for certiorari, and both are denied.
Judgment affrmed.

PERLEY ET AL. v. STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 251.

Submitted March-19, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

To protect the watersheds held by cities for supplying water to their
inhabitants from danger by fire is a governmental purpose, in the
execution of which it is not arbitrary for a State, where there is
reasonable apprehension of the danger, to require the owners of
timber, upon cutting or removing it from land near to such watersheds (in'this case within 400 feet), to remove or cause to be burned
under proper supervision, the tops, etc., not desired to be taken for
commercial or other purposes. P. 513.

PERLEY v. NORTH CAROLINA.
510.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Mere assertion that the presence of ,such refuse would be harmless,
not a nuisance, etc., held not-to countervail the judgment of the
state courts, the legislative judgment implied in the act making the
requirement, and common experience as to the danger of fires
spreading from such accumulations. Id.
A statute making this requirement of individuals in favor of municipalities does not deny equal protection of the laws in failing to
make similar requirements.of municipalities for the protection of
individuals. P. 514.
173 N. Car. 783, affirmed.

•

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Julius C. Martin, Mr. Thos. S. Rollins and Mr.
Geo. H. Wright for plaintiffs in error:
The statute is unconstitutional and void:
(1) Because it is arbitrary and unreasonable, and the
discrimination attempted has no reasonable relation to the
object sought to be accomplished; because tree-tops,
etc., lying on the land of the owner, 400 feet and less from
the land of the City of Asheville, constituting its watershed, are absolutely, harmless; they contain no element
of injury or damage to anyone and could not by any r)ssibility be construed into a nuisance.
(2) Because municipalities in North Carolina which
own watersheds could protect them from fire by cleaning
out fire lines on their own property. To require a property owner to clean up his own lands in order to protect
the property of a city or town which is engaged in the
furnishing of water to its inhabitants, is to deprive him
of his property without due process of law and without
just compensation.
(3) Because the statute is arbitrary, partial, and unconstitutional in that it does. not bear equally upon all.
It does not pretend to protect the property of plaintiffs
in error, or other persons in like situation, from the acts
of municipalities similar to those it condemns.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

If the statute had been limited to lumbering operations
and had applied only to persons engaged in the business
of lumbering, there might have been more reason to sustain it, but it will be noted that this statute is broad and
covers all classes of owners of timber trees and therefore
embraces all persons who own timber within 400 feet of a
city watershed and casts burdens on such persons which
are unusual, heretofore unknown, discriminatory, and,
as we insist, unconstituional.
Mr. James S. Manning, Attorney General of the State
of North Carolina, and Mr. Robert H. Sykes, Assistant
Attorney General of the State of North Carolina, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
A statute of North Carolina provides that any person
who owns land or standing timber on land within 400 feet

of any watershed held or owned by any city or town for
the purpose of furnishing the city or town water supply,
upon cutting or removing the timber or permitting either,
within 400 feet of the watershed, shall, within three months
after cutting, or earlier upon written notice by the city
or town, remove or cause to be burned under proper
supervision all tree-tops, boughs, laps and other portions
not desired to be taken for commercial or other purposes,
within 400 feet of the boundary line of the watershed so
as to leave such space of 400 feet free and clear of the
designated parts required to be removed or burned and
other inflammable material caused by or left from cutting
the standing timber, so as to prevent the spread of fire
from such cut-over area and the consequent damage to
the watershed. A violation of the act is a misdemeanor.
Plaintiffs in error (we shall refer to them as defendants)

PERLEY v. NORTH CAROLINA.

510.

Opinion of the Court.

were indicted for violating the act and upon being arraigned filed a motion to quash the indictment on the
ground that the act was unconstitutional and void and
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and
particularly the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
thereof, in that the act abridged privileges and immunities
of defendants as citizens of the United States, deprived
them of their property without due process of law and
denied them the equal protection of the laws. The motion
was denied and defendants were put on'trial bef re a jury
which specially found that the City of Asheville owned
about 16,000 acres of land having an outside boundary
of twelve miles and held the land as a watershed; that
defendants were owners of standing and fallen timber
adjoining the watershed on the north about four miles
and within 400 feet of the watershed but did not own the
land upon which the timber stood and that the water did
not drain from' the timber, or the land upon which it
stood, on to the watershed. And the jury foundall other
facts which brought defendants within the provisions of
the act and made them violators of it. And the jury
found the defendants guilty or not guilty as the court
should determine the law to be upon the facts found.
Upon the special verdict the court adjudged defendants
guilty and fined each $300 and costs. Upon appeal the
Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment.
In considering the contention of defendants we may put
to one side what property is or what its rights are, in the
abstract. It and they necessarily are subject to some
exertions of government.
What then is the case? The City of Asheville is the
owner of and conducts a reservoir, and it may be presumed
that other cities of the State are in like situation, and the
State, by the law in question, seeks to protect their watersheds from damage or devastating fires. The purpose is
governmental, but it is contended that the regulation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

the statute under review is too distant from the purpose
and is simply an arbitrary exercise of power. And this
as a certain proposition of law, having no other basis in
the record than that the forbidden litter of the cut-down
and remo-ed timber is "absolutely harmless" and contains "no element of injury or damage to any one" and
cannot "by any possibility be construed into a nuisance."
The assertion eludes exact estimation. "Tree-tops,
boughs, and laps" left upon the ground may not of themselves be a nuisance; but they may become dry, and the
more quickly and certainly so from the denudation of the
land of its trees, and therefore become a source of fires
and the perils and damage of fires. This was the conclusion of the courts below and, we may suppose, in
application to the Asheville watershed. The conclusion
is fortified. by the judgment of the State expressed in the
statute, and, it may be, from experience in the State and
certainly from experience in other States, ignorance of
which we cannot feign. We are not able, therefore, to
yield to the contention of defendants that the statute is
not proportionate in its regulation nor that its application
to defendants' property is arbitrary and unconstitutional.
Nor do we find illegal discrimination in the statute.
The charge is based upon the contention that the statute
condemns acts committed by individuals "when if like
and similar acts be done by municipalities there is no
violation of the statute." Counsel again insists too much
upon the abstract. We concede the aphorism upon which
counsel relies that "the equal protection of the laws is a
pledge of the protection of equal laws." We, on March
24th last, by an almost prescience of the contention now
based on it, defined its extent and declared that the
Fourteenth Amendment, which is the foundation of the
aphorism, does not regard the impracticable, and that
distinction may be made by legislation between objects
or persons, and that the power of the State "'may be

GILLIS v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO.
510.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

determined by degrees of evil or exercised in cases where
detriment is specially experienced.' Armour & Co. v.
North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510, 517." Moreover, we pointed
out that "the deference due to the judgment of the legislature on the matter" had "been emphasized again and
again. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303." Dominion
Hotel v. Arizona, ante, 265.
Necessarily the legislature of the State did not think,
and the courts below did not think, that individuals and
municipalities stood in the same relation to the evil aimed
at or that a public body charged with the care of the interests and welfare of the people would need the same restraint upon its action as an individual, or be induced to
detrimental conduct.
-Judgmentaffirmed.

GILLIS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF GILLIS, v. NEW
YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 296.

Argued March 26, 27, 1919.--Decided April 21, 1919.

In the absence of manifest error, concurrent action of state trial and
appellate courts in finding no evidence of defendant's negligence
sufficient to go to the jury, in a case under the Federal Employers'

Liability Act, will not be reexamined by this court.
224 Massachusetts, 541. affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James J. McCarthy, with whom Mr. Daniel M.
Lyons and Mr. Thomas C. O'Brien were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.

