OCTOBEIZ TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

CITY OF RICHMOND v. BIRD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 195.

Argued January 28, 29, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

Under the law of Virginia and the charter of the City of Richmond,
the city's claim for delinquent taxes on persc~aal property, unsupported by distraint, is no better than the claim of a general creditor
and is inferior to a landlord's lien secured by levy of a distress warrant. P. 177.
Section 64a of the Bankruptcy Act, in directing payment of taxes before
dividends to creditors, means general creditors; when b3 the local
law a lien for a private debt is superior to a claim for taxes, its status
is preserved by § 67d (as it was before 1910), if the lien was given or
accepted in good faith and not in fraud of the act, for a present
consideration. Id.
240 Fed. Rep. 545, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Wayne Anderson for petitioner.
Mr. James E. Cannon, with whom Mr. Samuel A.
Anderson was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNoLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
November 4, 1909, the Chancery Court at Richmond
upon petition filed the preceding day appointed a receiver
for the Ainslie Carriage Company; February 3, 1910, the
company was adjudged bankrupt in involuntary proceed-

ings instituted November 6, 1909. At time of receiver's
appointment taxes assessed upon the bankrupt's personal
propeity for the years 1907, 1908 and 1909 were due the

CITY OF RICHMOND v. BIRD.
174.

Opinion of the Court.

City of Richmond for which it had not distrained, although having authority so to do. Respondents, landlords of the bankrupt, under express statutory authority,
levied a distress warrant November 1, 1909, upon its
goods and chattels on account of rent due for the period
since April 1, 1908. The question is whether their claim
is entitled to priority of payment over the taxes. The
Circuit Court of Appeals answered in the affirmative.
240 Fed. Rep. 545.
The city, while not disputing that levy of the distress
warrant gave respondents a valid lien, claims priority
under § 64a, Bankruptcy Act-"The court shall order
the trustee to pay all taxes legally due and owing by the
bankrupt to the United States, State, county, district,
or municipality in advance of the ,payment of dividends
to creditors, and upon filing the receipts of the proper
public officers for such payment he shall be credited with
the amount thereof,. and in case any -question arises as to
the amount or legality of any such tax the same shall be
heard and determined by the court."
Respondents maintain (1) that their lien, perfected
through distraint, was fully protected by § 67d (as it
read prior to 1910), Bankruptcy Act-" Liens given or
accepted in good faith and not in contemplation of or in
fraud upon this Act, and for a present consideration,
which have been recorded according to law, if record
thereof was necessary in order to impart notice, shall not
be affected by this Act." And (2) that under Virginia
law such a lien is superior to the inchoate one which the
city had for unpaid taxes but neglected to perfect by exercising its summary power to distrain therefor after Septeiber first in year for which levied.
It is not denied that respondents obtained a present,
valid lien upon the bankrupt's goods and chattels distrained November 1, 1909; nor is it now claimed this
was annulled by adjudication of bankruptcy. That the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

City of Richmond had no lien for past due taxes upon these
goods and chattels when the Chancery Court receiver
took possession, we think must be regarded as settled by
Jackson Coal Co. v. PhillipsLine, 114 Virginia, 40 (1912),
and this notwithstanding differences between its charter
and that of Petersburg. The Supreme Court of Virginia
there said (pp. 49, 50):
"With respect to that part of the decree appealed from,
which directed the payment of taxes due from the Phillips
Line, and its predecessor in title, to the State of Virginia
and the city of Petersburg, out of the fund under the
control of the court, and giving the taxes priority of payment over the creditors of the receivers, the court erred,
except as to the taxes for the year 1910. The property
upon which these taxes were assessed was wholly personal,
and no effort appears to have been made, certainly as to
the years prior to 1910, either by the Auditor of the State
or by the city of Petersburg, to collect the taxes until
the property was placed in the hands of the receivers in
this cause and an account of debts against the Phillips
Line ordered. The State had a right under sections 604623. of the Code, for one year from the date on which the
taxes in her favor were assessed, to levy upon the property
assessed with the taxes, which right was not exercised;
and it appears that the city of Petersburg had a right of
distress against the property assessed with taxes in its
favor, which the city might have exercised before the
taxes were returned delinquent, or the property upon
which they were assessed had passed into the hands of subsequent purchasers, and thereby secured a lien therefor,
but these rights were never exercised.
"Under these circumstances, neither the State nor
the city had a lien upon the property of the Phillips Line
when it went into the hands of the receivers for the taxes
due them, respectively, and, therefore, the position of the
State and city was no better than that of the general

CITY OF RICHMOND v. BIRD.
174.

Dissent.

creditors of the company, and they were not entitled to
share in the proceeds of sale of the company's property,
except as to the amount of taxes due them (the State
and the city), respectively, for the year 1910, assessed
against and due from the receivers."
Respondents therefore must prevail unless priority
over their lien is given by § 64a to claim for taxes which,
under state law, occupied no better position than one
held by a general creditor. Section 67d, Bankruptcy
Act, quoted supra, declares that liens given or accepted
in good faith and not in contemplation of or in fraud upon
this act, shall not be affected by it. Other provisions
must, of course, be construed in view of this positive one.
Section 64a directs that taxes be paid in advance of dividends to creditors; and "dividend" as commonly used
throughout the act means partial payment to general
creditors. In § 65b, for example, the word occurs in contrast to payment of debts which have priority. And as
the local laws gave no superior right to the city's unsecured claim for' taxes we are unable to conclude that Congress intended by § 64a to place it ahead of valid lien
holders.
New Jersey v. Anderson, 203 U. S.483, is not decisive
of any point here contested; it only adjudged that New
Jersey's claim was for a tax within the meaning of § 64a
and entitled to be treated accordingly. See New Jersey
v. Lovell, 179 Fed. Rep. 321.
The judgment below must be

Afflrmed.
MR. JusTicE DAY and MR. JusTIcE CLARK dissent.

