OCI('I)BER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

-Least of all, can a writ of mandamus be granted to
review a ruling or interlocutory order made in the progress of a cause: for, as observed by Chief Justice Marshall, to do this 'would be a plain evasion of the provision of the act of Congress that final judgments only
should be brought before this court for reexamination;'
would 'introduce the supervising power of this court
into a cause while depending in an inferior court, and
prematurely to decide it; ' would allow an appeal or
writ of error upon the same question to be 'repeated,
to the great oppression of the parties;' and 'would subVert our whole system of jurisprudence.'"
The petitioners have misconceived the scope and
applicability of the remedy of mandamus and the rule is
Discharged and the petition dismissed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STATE OF
ARIZONA.
THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.
ERROR T11O
No. 238.

Submitted March 13, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Whether a shipment was at a given time interstate is a question of
fact. P. 477.
Evidence held insufficient to prove that a traveling show was moving
interstate, at the time of proceedings before a state commission, to

require transportation within the State and fix the rate. Id.
The mere intention to continue the tour of a traveling show beyond
the State where it was performing, held not enough to give interstate character to a contemplated journey within the State. Id.
A claim of federal right which was not set up in the state court and
made in the assignments of error held not open in this court. P. 478.
Semble, that when required by a state commission to transport a

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. r. ARIZONA.
472.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

traveling show at a rate which is not objected to and upon terms
the same as it has habituqlly and voluntarily agreed to in like cases,
a railroad company has no ground to complain that it is thus doprived of its liberty to make or refuse a contract as a private carrier,
in violation of the equal protection and due process clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P 478.
19 Arizona, 20, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. W. Durbrow, Mr. Henley C. Booth and Mr.
Wm. F. Herrin for plaintiff in error, in support of the
contention that the movement was interstate, cited
South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537, 545;
United States v. Union Stock Yards of Chicago, 226
U. S. 266, 304; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 245 U. S. 484; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346, 348.
In support of the contention that the right of private
contract was invaded, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment,-Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Maucher, 248 U. S. 359; Santa Fe, Prescott & Phoenix
Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers Construction Co., 228 U. S. 177;
Baltimore & Ohio S. W. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498;
Wilson v. Atlantic Coast Line, 129 Fed. Rep. 774; affd.
133 Fed. Rep. 1022; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 66 Fed. Rep. 506; Cluff v. Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 81; 1 Hutchinson
on Carriers, 3d ed., ยง 88; Moore on Carriers, ยง 38, pp.
79, 80.
It is not necessary in order to render an order or a
statute obnoxious to the Federal Constitution that it
in terms or in effect authorize the actual physical taking of the property or the thing itself, so long as it
affects its free use and enjoyment -orthe power of disposition at the will of the owner. Forster v. Scott, 136
N. Y. 577; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 336.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. Wiley E. Jones, Attorney General of the State
of Arizona, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
An agent for Campbell's United Shows applied to
the Southern Pacific Company to transport eighteen
cars, carrying a carnival show equipment, including
employees and animals, from Tucson via Maricopa, to
Phoenix, Arizona.
In reply to this application the company gave two
reasons for refusing the request. The first of these was
that the company had contracted for the transportation
of another show, under an agreement not to carry a
second one within thirty days, which had not expired;
and the second, that the company was not a common
carrier of shows and would not make the customary
contract with Campbell, but would serve him only at
certain published interstate rates, which it regarded as
applicable. These were many times greater than had
been charged for the same show and than had been
the customary charge by the Southern Pacific and other
companies for similar service.
Upon receiving this refusal, an application by the
owner of the shows to -the Arizona Corporation Commission for relief, resulted in an order to the Southern
Pacific Company and the Arizona Eastern Railroad
Company, operating a connecting line, to show cause
why they should not publish, on one day's notice, a
special rate, designated in the order of the commission,
for the transportation of the shows between the points
named. The reasonableness of the required rate is
not contested, and the order permitted the Southern
Pacific Company to make the special terms for transportation of the shows which had been customary with
it in like cases.

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

The company refused to obey the order and the commission issued to it a second rule to show cause why
it should not be punished for contempt for such disobedience. On this -second rule a hearing was had, and
the company was adjudged in contempt and fined
$1500, which it refused to pay.
Thereupon the State of Arizona instituted 'this suit
in a superior court of that State to recover the amount
of the fine.
In its answer to the complaint of the State, the Southern Pacific Company alleged:
That the proposed movement of the shows was
"interstate in character" because they were engaged
in a tour, beginning at the City of El Paso, Texas. and
designed to extend through the States of Arizona and
New Mexico into the State of California, of which tour
the movement from Tucson to Phoenix was a part;
that in its necessary operation the order would require
the company to accept a rate lower than its published
interstate rate and would be a direct burden upon interstate commerce; and that, for these reasons, the order
for the transportation was in contravention df the provisions of Article I, ยง 8, of the Constitution of the United
States, and the fine for contempt was unlawfully imposed and void.
The judgment of the superior court was in favor of
the State, the company appealed to the Supreme Court
of Arizona, which affirmed the judgment, and the case
is here on writ of error.
The only claim of error argued in this court which is
properly presented by the record is: Whether the persons and property which the commission ordered the
raiirnad company to carry were in interstate trans-

portatuh when the order was made for the service
b)etwvi. two stations in Arizoma.

if the shipment was

then, i interstate conimerce the order waq void .nd if

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S,

it was not the order was valid and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Arizona must be affirmed.
The evidenpe which was before the courts and the
commission was as follows:
Early in February, 1914, an agent for the shows
applied to the Southern Pacific Company for their
transportation from El Paso, Texas, to various towns
in Arizona where it was desired to exhibit, and ultimately to Cochise, Arizona, from which point another
line would be taken into Tucson. Nothing came of this
applic.ation..and an arrangement was made for carriage
to Tucson by another road. Before the shows arrived
at Tucson the application out of which this suit arose
was 'made. The agent for the shows testified that the
tentative purpose of the management was to go from
Tucson to' Prescott; to Clarkdaie, to Kingman, all in
Arizona, and then to Needles, California, exhibiting
in each town, but when testifying on March 23rd, when
his show wa exhibiting in Tucson, he said that although
he had made -application to the Santa Fe Railroad
Company -for -a contract for transportation beyond
Phoenix, he had not at that time received a reply.
The agent for tIe' Santa Fe Company at Phoenix
testified 'that about March 20th an application was
made to him for a rate and contract for the transportation of the shows over his line from Phoenix to Prescott,
''possibly to Clarkdale and to Needles, Califorma."
Two contracts with the Santa Fe Company were
introduced in 'evidence, one dated April 3rd, providing
for the transportation of the shows from Phoenix to
Prescott, to Kingman and to 'Needles, and the other
dated April 16th, providing for transportation from'
Prescott direct- to Bakersfield, California.
The shows were actually carried by the Southern
Pacific Company on 'March 29th or 30th from Tucson
to Phoenix bii at an interstate rate insisted upon in

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. ARIZONA.
472.

Opinioof the Court.

defiance of the commission's order. At Phoenix the
transportation ended so far as the Southern Pacific
Company was concerned, and the contract with the
Santa Fe Company to carry the shows beyond that
city was not concluded, as we have seen, until April
3rd-in its modified form. not until April 16th.
This statement of the case decides it. Whether a shipment was at a given time in interstate comnerce is .a
question of fact, Railroad Commission of Ohio v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108; and it is plainly impossible
to say that the property and persons constituting the
shipment of the shows here involved were in progress
of interstate transportation when the Arizona commission entered its order on March 25 that the company
should accept the intrastate shipment from Tucson to
Phoenix. For at that time the shows were in the exclusive possession and control of the owner, exhibiting
for six days at Tucson, and the application to the
Southern Pacific Company, which was refused, shows,
incontrovertibly, that the transportation to Tucson
had terminated, and' that no other transportation had
then been contracted for. The company itself proved
that interstate transportation was not subsequently
arranged for until April 3rd certainly-and probably
not until April 16th-and then was via another line
from Phoenix, after two weeks for exhibition in that
city.
The mere intention of the shipper to ultimately continue his tour beyond the State of Arizona did not convert the contemplated intrastate movement into one
that was interstate. The case is ruled by Coe v. Errol,
116 U. S. 517; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co.
v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe R.
R. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Arkadelphia Milling Co.
v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., ante, 134.
it is further. argued by the plaintiff in error that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

order of the state commission deprived it of its right
to iihake or refuse to make a contract as a private carrier
for the transportation of traveling shows, and thereby
deprived it of the equal protection of the laws and of
its property without due process of law.
It would be enough to say of this contention that no
such claim was asserted in the answer of the company
in the state court, or even in the assignments of error
in this court, and that, therefore, it cannot be considered
here. But this omission is not an oversight, for the
record shows that it had been the prior practice of the
plaintiff in error to transport such shows on application
under special contract-a short time before it had
transported another show and the year before it had
accepted these same shows for transportation-and
that' the order of the commission was: "It is understood . .

.

t.at the .

.

.

company may enter into

a contract covering this transportation, the terms of
which shall not be in substantial variance with the contract now existing between the Arizona Eastern Railroad
Company and Sells-Floto Shows Company, with respect
to details, as to responsibility, service, and conditions,"
which contract was on file with the commission, and
was dated March 4, 1914. This form of contract was
one also used by the Southern Pacific Company.
Thus this second claim, obviously an afterthought, is
so clearly without merit that it cannot be considered, and
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is
Affirmed.

