OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

We are unable to agree with this conclusion. :The
language of the enactment is clear and we think it vested
in the Postmaster General a discretion which, so far as
shown by the record, has not been abused. We are not
unmindful of the burden imposed upon appellee nor of
the circumstances which lend color to a different conclusion; but these are not sufficient to justify a disregard
of the plain import of the words which Congress deliberately adopted.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause
remanded with direction to dismiss the petition.
Reversed and remanded.

BARBOUR v. STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 191.

Submitted January 24, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

One who-acquires liquor after approval and before the effective date
of a state law making its possession unlawful is not deprived by the
law of his property without due process. P. 459.

It must be presumed that the liquor was acquired between those dates
when the date of acquisition is not shown. Id.
Whether such a law would be constitutional as applied to one who
acquired liquor before its enactment-not decided. P. 460.
A federal question which was not decided by the State Supreme Court
because not so raised as to evoke its decision under the local practice
will not be decided by this court. Id.
146 Georgia, 667, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William W. Osborne and Mr. A. A. Lawrence
for plaintiff in error:

BARBOUR v. GEORGIA.
454.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Wine has from the dawn of civilization been a recognized article of commerce, useful in arts, mechanics
and for scientific, medicinal and religious purposes.
Its future acquisition may be prohibited, but until
some statute has been passed to change its status it
retains the status of property given by common consent
of mankind through the course of centuries. Under
that status it was clothed with the protection afforded
by the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
we insist that the State cannot alter this status under
the guise of declaring that that which it had theretofore
declared to be property was not property, but a noxious
and unwholesome nuisance.
The very statute itself contradicts the announcement
of the court that intoxicating liquors are inherently a
nuisance, for it recognizes the right of property and the
right to possess various specified amounts thereof.
We submit that when duties and revenues are paid
upon wines their value inheres in the wines and the owner
has a property right under the United States. This
value the court below says the State may destroy.
The decision under review announces a dangerous
application of the doctrine that innocent transactions
may be prohibited to prevent their use as an aid to
thwart the particular object.
At the time the statute in'question was passed it
was unlawful in Georgia to sell wine. [See Code, §426,
Penal Code 1911, appendix (b).] One was permitted
under the law to purchase and possess it for his own use
or to be used in social intercourse. The effect of a law
passed November 18th, to become effective May 1st,
and construed as the court below has done, must have
been to force the citizen either to consume his wines,
which was an aid to insobriety, or to-destroy them. This,
we submit, was contrary to good morals and repugnant to
the protection guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff iii Error.

249 U. S.

We invite the attention of the court to the case of
Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378, in which there is
a most extended discussion of this question
In the opinion of the court there is a suggestion that
the wine was acquired between the date of the passage
of the act, and the date upon which it, by its terms,
became effective. We do not think this is important,
for no statute has force until the time it becomes effective. 36 Cyc. p. 1192; Lewis, Sutherland's Statutory
Construction. Property acquired before the statute
became effective is just as much entitled to protection
of the constitutional guarantees as if it were acquired
prior to the passage of the act.
The premise upon which the: court below based its
conclusion was, that property right in wines is not
absolute, but only qualified, and taken subject to such
legislation as the State might thereafter enact. This,
we insist, is opposed to the settled law of the land as
announced by decisions of this court. Bowman v.
Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Leisy
v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Vance v. Vandercook Co., 170
U. S. 438.
Property right in liquors is derived, not by grant
from the State, but under the Constitution of the United
States.
It is true that the foregoing cases involved a conflict
between the police power of the State and the commerce
clause, while this case involves a conflict between the
police power and the due process clause; but this is a
distinction without a difference.
The foregoing cases afford a complete reply to the
position assumed that if the liquors were acquired between the date of the approval and the effective date
of the act, the act in question would not be retroactive.
Under the laws of Georgia as. they existed between
November, 1915, and May, 1916, it was lawful to ac-

BARBOUR ,,. GEORGIA.
454.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

quire and possess intoxicating liquors in any quantity.
Under the cases cited one acquiring such property acquired with it all the incidents and protection accorded
to property by the Constitution, and in a conflict between the police power of the State and the Constitution the police power must give way. Bowman v. Chicago
& Northwestern Ry. Co., supra.
Mr. Clifford Walker, Attorney General of the State
of Georgia, for defendant in error:
The mere possession of whiskey for personal use may
be rendered criminal by state legislature. Crane v.
Campbell, 245 U. S. 304.
The power of the legislature to declare that which is
perfectly innocent in itself to be unlawful is beyond
question. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; People v. West, 106 N. Y. 293.
If the lawful object warrants the discrimination the
meaus adopted for makling it effective also may be
adopted. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; Geer
v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519.
It is not a good objection to a statute prohibiting
a particular act and making its commission a public
offense that the act was before the enactment lawful
or even innocent and without any element of moral
turpitude. People v. West, supra; People v. Cipperly,
101 N. Y. 634; Commonwealth v. Evans, 132 Massachusetts, 11.
Intoxicating liquor being dangerous to the morals,
good order, health and safety of the people, is not to be
placed on the same footing with the ordinary commodities of life. State v. Aiken, 42 S. Car. 222; Schwartz v.
People, 46 Colorado, 239.
The police power is a power originally and always
belonging to the States, not surrendered by them to
the general government, nor directly restrained by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Constitution of the United States, and essentially
exclusive. United States v. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.
This principle applies to prohibiting possession of certain things as a proper means to accomplish an ulterior
valid purpose. Silz v. Hesterberg, supra; Lawton v.
Steele, supra; Patone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138.
A State may prohibit the sale of non-intoxicating
malt liquors if the legislature deems it a necessary means
to suppress the trade in intoxicants. Purity Extract Co.
v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192.
It is well settled that in legislating in behalf of the
public morals, health and safety, the State by reason
of its police power may enact laws which incidentally
impair property value, Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
or destroy it altogether, Cureton v. State, 135 Georgia,
660; Southern Express Co. v. Whittle, 194 Alabama, 406;
Glenn v. Southern Express Co., 170 N. Car. 286; Preston
v. Drew, 33 Maine, 558; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, supra;
Silz v. Hesterberg, supra; Barbour v. State, 146 Georgia,
667.
The State has the power to prohibit the manufacture
and sale; it also has the power, as an incident to the
right, to restrain the means by which intoxicating liquors
for personal use can be obtained. Clark Distilling Co.
v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311.
The constitution of the State of Georgia expressly
provides that its police powers cannot be abridged.
Const., Art. IV, § 2, par. 2. Intoxicants, because of
their inherent evil qualities, ar taken and possessed
subject to such legislation as the State may enact under
its police power.
MR. JusicE, BRANInEIs delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Georgia prohibitory liquor law was approved November 18, 1915; but, by its terms, did not become effec-

BARBOUR v. G)EORGIA.

4.54.

Opinion of the Court.

tive until May 1, 1916. Under it Barbour was convicted
for having in his possession on June 10, 1916, more than
one gallon of vinous liquor. (Georgia Laws, Extraordinary
Session, 1915, Part 1, Title 2, No. 4, §§ 16 & 30, pp. 90,
99, 105.) He asserted that the liquor had been acquired
by him before May first; and contended that the statute,
if construed to apply to liquor so acquired, was void
under the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court
of the State overruled this contention and affirmed the
sentence. 146 Georgia, 667. The case comes here on
writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial Code.
That a State which has enacted a prohibitory law may
forbid the mere possession of liquor within its borders
was decided in Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304; but it
did not appear there when the liquor had been acquired.
Whether the prohibition of sale may be constitutionally
applied to liquor acquired before the enactment of the
statute was raised in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129,
and Beer Company v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 32-33;
but was not decided. The question presented here however is simpler. For the exact date when Barbour acquired the liquor is not shown; and we must assume, as
the Supreme Court of Georgia did, that it was acquired
during the period of five months and twelve days between
the enactment of the law and the date when it became
effective. Does the Fourteenth Amendment, by its
guarantee to property, prevent a State from protecting
its citizens from liquor so acquired?
A State having the power to forbid the manufacture,
sale, and possession of liquor within its borders~may, if it
concludes to exercise the power, obviously postpone the
date when the prohibition shall become effective, in order
that those engaged in the business and others may adjust
themselves to the new conditions. Whoever acquires,
after the enactment of the statute, property thus declared
noxious, takes it with full notice of its infirmity and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S

after a day certain its possession will, by mere lapse of
time, become a crime. It is well settled that the Federal
Constitution does not enable one to stay the exercise of
a State's police power by entering into a contract under
such circumstances. Diamond Glue Co. v. United States
Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 615. Compare Calderv. Michigan,
218 U. S. 591, 599. Nor can-he do so by acquiring property.
The defendant raised, in his amended motion for a new
trial, the further objection that the law was unconstitutional as applied to him, because the liquor had been acquired before the statute was enacted; but the trial judge
denied the motion and declined to approve any of the
grounds on which it was based. In accordance with the
state practice its Supreme Court therefore refused to consider the point. Dickens v. State, 137 Georgia, 523; Harris
v. State, 120 Georgia, 196, 197. Consequently the question is not before us, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Woodford, 234 U. S. 46, 51; and on it we express no opinion.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

J. E. HATHAWAY & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 255.

Argued March 19, 20, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

A finding by the Court of Claims that a delay by the Government in
approving a contract was reasonable is a finding of ultimate fact,
binding upon this court unless made without evidence or inconsistent with other facts found. P. 463.
Quwere: Whether unreasonable delay on the part of the Government
in approving a contract can entitle the contractor to an extension

where the contract fixes a definite date for completion of the work?

