OCTOBER TIMIM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

CHICAGO & EASTERN ILLINOIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. COLLINS PRODUCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 138.

Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

In an action against an initial carrier to recover for goods lost on the
line of a connecting carrier, the Carmack Amendment does not lay
upon the shipper the burden of proving that the loss was "caused
by" the connecting carrier. P. 191.
Where a shipper took depositions as to telephone and postal communications tending to prove liability of a connecting carrier for a loss
of goods, and the defendant initial carrier introduced the depositions
in evidence, held, that it could not be heard. to object that the
senders of the messages were not identified as officers or agents of
the connecting carrier. P. 192.
A shipment of poultry, delayed by floods, was appropriated by state
military authorities, at the solicitation of the carrier and upon its
false or not justified representation that the fowls were abandoned
by their caretaker and dying. Held, that the carrier was liable to
the shipper, as the loss was not attributable to "the act of God" or
"the authority of law" excepted in the bill of lading. Id.
235 Fed. Rep. 857, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Homer T. Dick and Mr. Lindorf 0. Whitnel for'
plaintiff in error:
It is fundamental that the carrier is relieved from the
duty to carry when prevented by an act of God. Railroad
Co. v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176.
It is admitted that the Governor of Ohio had proclaimed
martial law and that military authority had superseded
civil in Dayton and Montgomery County, and the uncontradicted evidence is that militia took possession of rail-

CHICAGO & E. I. R. R. CO. v. COLLINS CO.
186.

187

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

roads and all property in transit; placed cards on all
cars, directed movement and disposition thereof; ousted

the officers and agents of carriers from possession and
control; and even the superintendent of the carrier had to
get a military pass before he was permitted to go upon
property of that railroad. Under these circumstances,
even if such superintendent recommended confiscation
of shipment, his' action could not be in law the act of the
carrier, when the carrier was not in possession or control
of shipment, it being in possession of militia at time. Martial law is of necessity arbitrary. It is administered by the
commander whose will is the law. Such law is the offspring
of necessity and transcends the ordinary course of law.
United States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520; In re Egan, 8
Fed. Cas. 367; Griffin v. Wilcox, 21 Indiana, 370.

Before a carrier can be held liable for the acts and declarations of an individual, the authority of such individual
to act as an agent of the carrier must be established.
The fact that the defendant read the depositions of
certain witnesses taken by and on behalf of the plaintiff
does not add to or 'extend the probative force of such
testimony. It proves no more if read by one party than
it would if read by the other. If the plaintiff had read
them without objection on the part of the defendant, the
statements therein would have been no evidence of
the existence of the reldtion of principal - and agent,
between the persons vriting the postal card and communicating by telephone with the military authorities
and the connecting carrier; this for the reason that,
with the depositions in evidence, there is still no evidence in the record tending to establish the agency;-and
.the state of the case was such that, without agency
proven, a verdict should have been directed in favor of
plaintiff in error. It cannot be the law that, if the
depositions had been read by the plaintiff, without
objection, a verdict should have been directed for want

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument fQr Defendant in Error

249 U. S.

of evidence establishing an essential element, yet, when
read by the defendant these same depositions furnish evidence establishing such essential element.
The testimony of the witnesses in the depositions, given
its most extended weight, can be said to do no more than
set forth the statements of a supposed agent, and the law
is that before such statements could be evidence there
must be added to them proof of the existence of such
agency. United States v. Boyd, 5 How. 29.
The testimony shows that the caretaker in charge of
the shipment requested the military commander to take
the carload of chickens off his hands.
The bill of lading routed the shipment over connecting
lines, clearly showing that the initial carrier would not
handle it to destination, and limited the initial carrier's
liability to loss on its own line, except where otherwise
provided by law. The cause of action then depended on
the Carmack Amendment, making the initial carrier
liable for losses "caused by" any connecting carrier.
Therefore, it was not enough for plaintiff to prove shipment by initial carrier and non-delivery to consignee.
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pac. Ry. Co. v. Rankin,
241 U. S. 319.
Mr. CharlesWham and Mr. Fred L. Wham for defendant
in error. Mr. G. Gale Gilbert and Mr. Harman Gilbert
were also on the brief:
The determination of the facts was peculiarly the province of the jury and their verdict ought not to be disturbed.
A party placing in proof the depositions of the opposite
party cannot be heard to complain that the jury gave
credit to such testimony. Fountain v. Ware, 56 Alabama,
558; Jewell V. Cenier & Co., 25 Alabama, 504; Adams v.
Russell, 85 Illinois, 287; Forward v. Harris,30 Barb. 338;
HarM v. Goldin, 37 How. Pr. 310.

CHICAGO & E. I. R. R. CO. v. COLLINS CO.
186.

189

Opinion of the Court.

As to the admissibility of telephone conversations, see
Godair V. Ham National Bank, 225 Illinois, 575.
The burden of proof was on the defendant and the bill
of lading a through contract. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry.
Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 491,492.
Military control, or so-called martial law, does not relieve a carrier from the performance of its duty. Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. McClellan, 54 Illinois, 71; Griffin v.
'Wilcox, 21 Indiana, 370.
An act of God to be a defense must be the sole cause of
the loss. Wald v. C., C., C. & St. L. R. R. Co., 162 Illinois,
545; Bell V. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 177 Ill. App. 377;
Wolf v. American Express Co., 43 Missouri, 421; Mueller
Grain Co. v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 200 Ill. App. 347;
Sherman & Redfield, Negligence, 4th ed., ยง 39.
As soon -as the flood could reasonably be overcome the
carrier must complete the transportation without delay.
Railroad Co. v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176, 191; Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co. v. O'Donnell, 49 Ohio St. 502.
-In addition to being bound by the bill of lading and the
fair intendment of the provisions, plaintiff in error was
bound by the Carmack Amendment. Atlantic Coast
Line. R. R. Co. V. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 194-208;
Fry v. Southern Pacific Co., 247 Illinois, 576; Cincinnati,
New Orleans & Texas Pac. Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S.
319.
Damages for delay out the connecting railroad may be
recovered from-the initial carrier.' New York, Philadelphia
& Norfolk R. R. Co. v. Peninsula Produce Exchange, 240
U. S. 34.
The basis of value is the bona fide invoice price to the
consignee.
MR. JUSTIcE, CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 21, 1913, the plaintiff in error, the initial
carrier, accepted a carload of live. poultry from the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. f.

fendant in error, the shipper, for transportation from
Cypress, Illinois, to Newark, New Jersey, and issued the
customarybill of lading, containing the provision that the
carrier should not be liable for any loss or damage to
or
the property "caused by the act of God
the authority of law."
In the progress of transportation the car arrived at
Dayton, Ohio, on the morning of March 25th, and was
there delayed by a flood caused by rains so unprecedented
that on that date martial law was declared applicable
to Dayton and the territory in which the car was held.
The flood waters overflowed the rails on which the car
stood, but did not reach the body of the car so as to affect
the health of the poulfry and access to and from it was
readily maintaind by the caretaker.
On March 31sL the state military authorities took possession of the car and distributed its contents to persons
rendered destitute by the flood.
Suit against the carrier, based on the bill of lading,
commenced in a state court, was removed to the appropriate District Court of the United States.
On the trial of the case the shipper introduced evidence
tenling to prove that the confiscation was due to the solicitation of representatives of the carrier and to their false
representation that the fowls were dying from lack of food
and attention and had been or-were about to be abandoned
by the caretaker, but the RailrDad Company denied this
and introduced evidence tending to prove that there was
no such solicitation or false representation and that the
confiscation was rendered necessary by the exigencies of
the situation and by the necessity for supplying food to
the people rendered homeless by the flood..
The trial court charged the jury:
That it was the duty*of the carrier to transport the
property to destination, if it could do so; that it could not
overcome the flood or-the action of the military authori-

CHICAGO & E. I. R. R. CO. v. COLLINS CO.
1.6.

191

Opinion of the Court.

ties and that if the latter acted of their own volition the
shipper could not recover; but that'if the military authorities seized the consignment solely upon and by reason
of the invitation of the Railroad Company, and if, but for
this confiscation, the property or any -part of it, in the
exercise of ordinary care, could have been transported to
its destination, then the defendant; the carrier, would be
liable for the value of such part of it as the jikry might
find from the evidence could have reached its destination,
to be determined by the invoice price at the point of shipment, less any deterioration caused by the delay solely
incident to the flood.
The verdict was for the shipper and we are asked to
review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming the judgment of the District Court entered upon
that verdict.
The carrier argues that three errors, each requiring
reversal of the judgment, appear in the record.
The first claim is that the court refused to rule, that by
its terms, the Carmack Amendment (34 Stat. 595, c.
3591, ยง 7) casts upon the shipper the burden of pro-ing
affirmatively that the loss which occurred on a connecting
line was "caused by" the connecting carrier. But, assuming that the question ispresented by the record, which"
is doubtful, Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co.
v.. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 491, rules that, under the act
as construed in A tlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Rivers-.de
Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 205, 206, in such a case as we have
here the liability of the initial carrier is as if the shipment
had been between stations in different States, but both
upon its own line, anid this renders the contention 'untenable. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 V1. S. 491,
does not conflict with this conclusion. Cincinnati, New
Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319,
326.
The second claim is that error was committed in 'the ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

mission of testimony of military officers that the confiscation of the property resulted from communications received by them by postal card and telephone from the
agents and officials of the Railroad Company respecting
the condition of the poultry and that the caretaker had
abandoned it, without evidence being required to identify
the. senders of such messages as officers or agents of the
Company. But this evidence, while taken in the form of
.depositions by the shipper, was introduced by the carrier.
One who asks a court and jury to believe evidence which
he introduces will not be heard to claim that, for technical
reasons, it was not admissible.
There remains only the contention that substantial
error was committed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in
approving as sound law the charge to the jury that if the
military authorities seized the consignment of poultry
solely upon and by reason of the invitation of the Railroad Company, and that if but for this confiscation the
property, or any part of it, in the exercise of ordinary care,
could have been transported to its destination, then the
carrier would be liable, etc.
The shipment was not lost by the "act of God," and the
defpnse of the carrier on the facts was narrowed to the
claim that it was prevented from performing its contract
"by the authority of law,'--7by the appropriation by the
military authorities.
The verdict approved by two courts will be accepted by
this court as a conclusive finding in favor of the shipper
upon the questions of fact involved.
The duties and liabilities of a common carrier have been
so fully discussed by this court, notably in Railroad Co.
v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, and in Bank of Kentucky v.
Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174, that they. need not be
re-stated here.
The common-law principle making the common carrier
an insurer is justified by the purpose to prevent negli-

CHICAG'0
186.

IL. 1.I.

It. CO. v. COLLINS CO.

193

Opinion of the Court.

gence or collusion between dishonest carriers or their
servants and thieves or others, to the prejudice of the
shipper, who is, of necessity, so remote from his property,
when in transit, that proof of such collusion or negligence
when existing, would be difficult if not impossible. Coggs
v. Bernard, 2 Lord Raymond, 909; Riley v. Home, 5
Bing. 217. The obligation to transport and to deliver is
so exceptional and absolute in character that the relation
of the carrier to the shipper was characterized in Railroad
Co. v. Lockwood, supra, as so partaking of a fiduciary
character as to require the utmost fairness and good faith
on its part in dealing with the shipper and in the discharge
of its duties to him, and. so lately as American Express Co.
v. Mullins, 212 U. S. 311, this court declared that if a
carrier, by connivance or fraud, permitted a judgment to
be rendered against it for property in its charge, such judgment could not be invoked as a bar to a suit by a shipper..
These decisions, a few from many, illustrate the character of the relation of trust and confidence which must
be sustained between a common carrier and 'a shipper.
It rests at bottom upon a commercial necessity and public
policy which would be largely defeated if the carrier were
permitted by false representations, or by representations,
which, though not intentionally false, were not known to
be true, to procure the appropriation by military or other
authority of property in its custody, as the jury found was
done in this case, and thereby defeat its obligation to ca'and deliver.
These principles of law governing the relations between
the carrier and the shipper, amply justified the charge of
the trial court to the jury, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

