WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.
62.

Syllabus.

in the District Court in favor of the Territory. To review that judgment a writ of error was taken from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the
District Court. 236 Fed. Rep. 62. A petition for a
rehearing was filed, and denied. Petition for writ of
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals was denied in
this court. 242 U. S. 648.
The writ of error must be disnssed. The judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit was
final for the reasons set forth in Nos. 117 and 118, just decided, ante, 53.
Dismisaed.

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 142. Argued January 16, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.
When an assessment for a local improvement is made in accordance
with a fixed rule prescribed by legislative act, the property owner is
not entitled to be heard in advance on the question of benefits. P. 68.
Within this principle, an assessment made in accordance with the rule
prescribed by the charter of the City of St. Louis is legislative in
character, since that charter, having been adopted by direct vote
of the citizens under a special provision of the Missouri constitution, has, as respects local assessments, all the force of a legislative
act. P. 69. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 149 U. S. 465.
The method of assessing part of the cost of local improvements according to frontage, as provided in the St. Louis charter, is unassailable, under the previous decisions of this court. P. 70. Gast Realty
Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; s. c., 245 U. S. 288.
Objections based on the manner of laying dut an improvement district,
and on alleged failure to conform with the city charter, raise only
local questions. P. 70.

-64

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff ii Error.

249 U. S.

The system of area assessment provided by the St. Louis charter
(Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55) is not per se
obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment, and becomes so in its
application only when the results are palpably arbitrary or grossly
unequal.. P. 71.
*269 Missquri, 546, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr., Edmund T.. Allen and Mr. Clifford B. Allen, for
plaintiff in error, submitted:
An ordinance providing for the apportionment of the
cost of an improvement must, in order to be valid, provide some rule capable of producing reasonable equality
between the parties assessed, and a fair distribution of
the taxes proportionately to the benefits received. Gast
Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; Myles
Salt Co. v. Iberia DrainageDistrict,239 U. S. 478; Wagner
v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207; St. Louis & Kansas City Land
Co. v. Kansas City, 241 U. S. 419; Houck v. Little River
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254; Martin v. District of
Columbia, 205 U. S. 135, 139; Raymond v. Chicago Union
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20.
The ordinance in this case is invalid because the rule
it. applied to defendant's property did not produce reasonable equality between the parties assessed, and was
not based upon the idea of benefits, equality and justice.
The same tax was levied on property 297 feet away from
the street to be improved as was levied upon property
within a foot of it. Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite
Co., supra; Norfolk County Water Co. v. Norfolk, 246 Fed.
Rep. 652; Norris v. Montezuma Valley IrrigationDistrict,
248 Fed. Rep. 369, 372; Bush v. Branson, 248 Fed. Rep.
377, 380; Dietz v. Neenah, 91 Wisconsin, 422; White v.
Gove, 183 Massachusetts, 333.
The ordinance is void because it applied a vicious,
arbitrary, and unjust rule to the defendant's property,

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.
63.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and its application thereto results in gross inequality
and injustice, and practical confiscation.
The City of St. Louis is a political subdivision of the
State of Missouri. Northcut v. Eager, 132 Missouri, 265;
Steffen v. St. Louis, 135 Missouri, 44; Straub v. St. Louis,
175 Missouri, 413.
There was no opportunity afforded defendant to be
heard upon the validity of the tax, and the aihount of
the assessment. Collier Estate v. Western Paving Co.,
180 Missouri, 375; Meier v. St. Louis, 180 Missouri, 391;
Houck v. Little River DrainageDistrict, 248 Missouri, 373.
The landowner must have an opportunity to be heard
as to the validity and apportionment of a special assessment for local improvements, before it becomes a lien
on his property. "The law itself must save the parties'
rights, and not leave them to the discretion of the court
as such" in a suit to enforce the lien. Security Trust Co.
v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer
Works, 237 U. S. 413; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373;
St. Louis & Kansas City Land Co. v. Kansas City, 241
U. S. 419; Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S.
242; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. CentralStock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132; Fallbrook
IrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; State v. Colbert,
273 Missouri, 198; Sandersville v. Bell, 146 Georgia, 737;
Bouslog v. Gulfport, 112 Mississippi, 184; Violet v. Alexander, 92 Virginia, 561; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183.,
Mr. Frank B. Coleman, with whom Mr. George M.'
Block was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The charter of the City oit St Louis and the powers
therein conferred upon the City with respect to municipal
matters, including special assessments for local improvements, are an express grant by the constitution of Missouri, and these powers, when exercised by the City, are
legislative powers as distinguished from delegated powers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

249 U. S.

Where the amount of the benefit conferred and the
proper adjustment of the taxes among the property
owners and the assessment and classification of the property to be improved are fixed and designated by a legislative act, no notice or hearing is required, in order
to constitute due process of law within the meaning of
the Federal Constitution. Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider
Granite Co., 245 U. S. 288, s. c., 240 U. S. 55; Embree
v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S. 242, 250, 251;
Houck v. Little River DrainageDistrict,239 U. S. 254, 262;
Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 216, 218, 219; French
v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 341, 343;
Shumate v. Heman, 181 U. S. 402, 403; Meier v. St. Louis,
180 Missouri, 391, 409; Pryor v. Construction Co., 170
Missouri, 451.
The constitutionality and the legality of tax-bills issued pursuant to the provisions of ยง 14, Art. VI, of the
charter of the City of St. Louis have been sustained both
by the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri and by
this court.
This court and the Missouri Supreme Court have both
held, where tax-bills were issued for street improvements
under the authority of Art. VI, ยง 14, of the charter of the
City of St. Louis, that the one-fourth levied and assessed
under the front-foot rule is valid and incontestable even
where the three-fourths of such tax-bills assessed under the
area rule are invalid because of. gross inequalities in the
assessment thereof.
In levying assessments for special improvements, there
is no requirement of the Federal Constitution that for
every payment.there must be an equal benefit. And the
fact that there may be inequalities is not enough to invalidate the tax-bills. Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite
Co., supra; St. Louis & Kansas City Land Co. v. Kansas
City, 241 U. S. 419, 430; Houck v. Little River Drainage
Dist., 239 U. S. 254, 265; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S.

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.
63.

Opinion of. the Court.

207, 216; Louisville .& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Paing Co., 197 U. S. 430, 433-435.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The construction company brought suit to enforce the
lien of twelve tax-bills issued on account of the cost of
paving a portion of Broadway in the City of St. Louis.
Withnell, plaintiff in error, is the owner of property assessed, fronting on Broadway, being five lots in City
Block No. 2069, five lots in City Block No. 2608, and
unplatted property in City Blocks Nos. 2620 and 2621.
The .validity of the tax-bills was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri. 269 Missouri, 546. The case
is here because of alleged violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution in assessing the
lien of these tax-bills upon plaintiff in error's property.
The assessment was levied in accordance with the charter
of the City of St. Louis.. An assessment for improving
other portions of the street than are here involved, made
under the terms of the St. Louis charter, was before this
court in Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S.
55. In that case the assessment was held invalid in part.
After being remanded to the Supreme Court of Missouri,
and a second judgment, the case was again before this
court. 245 U. S. 288.
The method of making assessments under the charter
of the City of St. Louis, as stated in Gast Realty Co. v.
Schneider Granite Co., supra, is as follows: One-fourth of
the total cost is levied upon all the property fronting upon
or adjoining the improvement according to frontage and
three-fourths according to area ascertained as follows:
"A line shall be drawn midway between the street to be
improved and the next parallel or converging street on
each side of the street to be improved, which line shall be
-the boupdary of the district, except as hereinafter pro-

OCTOBER, TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

vided, namely: If the property adjoining the street to be
improved is divided into lots, the district line shall be so
drawn as to include the entire depth of all lots fronting on
the street to be improved. . . . If there is no parallel

or converging street on either side of the street improved,
the district lines shall be drawn three hundred feet from
that parallel to the street to be improved; but if there be a

parallel or converging street on one side of the street to
be improved to fix and locate the district line, then the
district line on the other side shall be drawn parallel to

the street to be improved and at the average distance of
the opposite district line so fixed and located."
In the Gast Realty Co. Case the area assessment was held
invalid because it assessed a large and disproportionate
part of the plaintiff in error's property. The memorandum
appended to the opinion shows that the foot-front assessment was not disturbed. And see the subsequent consideration of the matter in Schneider Granite Co. v. Gast
Realty Co., 245 U. S. 288.
In support of the constitutional objection it is contended that the plaintiff in error was not allowed to- be
heard as to the validity and apportionment of the assessment, and was therefore denied due process of law. The
charter provision for notice and hearing is inserted in the
margin. 1 But whether a property-owner is entitled to be
"No ordinance for the construction or reconstruction of any street,
avenue, boulevard, alley or public highway of the city, shall be passed
unless recommended by the board of public improvements, as hereinafter provided. The board shall designate a day on which they will
hold a public meeting to consider the improvement of any designated
streets, avenues, boulevards, alleys or public, highways by grading or
regrading, by constructing, or reconstructing, by paving or repaving
the roadway, including cross-walks and intersections, and shall give
two weeks' public notice, in the papers doing the city printing, of the
time, place and matt2r to be considered, stating in such notice the
kind of material and manner of construction proposed to be used for
the wearing surface of such improvc-ment, naming more than one kind

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.
63.

Opinion of the Court.

heard in advance upon the questions of benefit and apportionment depends upon the authority under which the
assessment is made. When the assessment is made in
accordance with a fixed rule adopted by a legislative act,
a property-owner is not entitled to be heard in advance
on the question of the amount and extent of the assessment and the benefits conferred. French v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Embree v. KansoA City Road
District, 240 U. S.. 242; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S.
207, 217, 218, and cases cited. We are of opinion that the
assessment made in accordance with the rule of the St.
Louis charter was legislative in character and required no
previous notice or preliminary hearing as to the nature
and extent of benefits in order to maintain its constitutional validity. The charter of the City 6f St. Louis was
adopted by a vote of the people under state constitutional
authority. It was under consideration in St. Louis v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 149 U. S. 465. This court

* said:
"As the legislative power of a State is vested in the
legislature, generally that body has the supreme control,
of material or manner of construction, if the board deems it advisable
so to do, and also the class of specification and plan for such work,
which specification and plan shall be approved by said board, and
filed in its office. If within fifteen days after such public meeting, the
owners of the major part of the area of the land made taxable by this
article for such improvement, shall file in the office of the board of
public improvements their written remonstrance against the proposed
improvement, or against the material or manner thereof, the board
shall consider such remonstrance, and if said board shall, by &-twothirds vote, at a regular meeting, approve of the improvement, material or manner remonstrated against, they shall cause an ordinance
for the same to be prepared and report the same with the reasons for
their action and the remonstrance to the assembly. If such majority
fail to remonstrate within fifteen days .or shall petition the board for
the improvement, said board may by a majority vote approve the same,
and shall cause an ordinance to be prepared and reported to the assembly therefor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and it delegates t9 municipal corporations such measure
thereof as it deems best. The city of St. Louis occupies
a unique position. It does not, like most cities, derive its
powers by grant from the legislature, but it framed its
own charter under express authority from the people of
the State, given in the constitution. Sections 20 and 21 of
Article 9 of the Constitution of 1875 of the State of Missouri authorized the election of thirteen freeholders to
prepare a charter to be submitted to the qualified voters
of the city, which, when ratified by them, was to 'become the organic law of the city.' . . . In pursuance
of these provisions of the constitution a charter was prepared and adopted, anal is, therefore, the 'organic law' of
the city of St. Louis, and the powers granted by it, so
far as they are in harmony with the constitution and laws
of the State, and have not been set aside by any act of the
general assembly, are the powers vested in the city. And
this charter is an organic act so defined in the constitution, and is to be construed as organic acts are construed.
The city is in a very just sense an 'imperium in imperio.'
Its powers are self-appointed, and the reserved control
existing in the general assembly does not take away this
peculiar feature of the charter."
The same view has been repeatedly declared by the
Supreme Court of Missouri. In Meier v. St. Louis, 180
Missouri, 391, 409, that court declared, citing its previous
decisions, that the charter of St. Louis, adopted under the
constitution, had as respects local assessments all the force
of legislative acts.
We reach the conclusion that the attack upon the validity of the assessment for want of advance notice of hearing
as to benefits must fail.
Regarding the front-foot method of assessment as being
unassailable under the previous decisions of this court (240
U. S., 245 U. S., supra), we come to consider the area
assessment. Objections basdd on the manner of laying

WITHNELL v. RUECKING CONSTR. CO.

63.

Opinion of the Court.

out the district, and whether it conforms to the plan outlined in the city charter; are conclusively disposed of by
the decisions of the state court. We have to deal only
with -the questions raised as to the alleged denial of the
protection afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment. An
examination of the plat made part of the record, and reproduced in the briefs of counsel, shows that owing to
the curvatures in Broadway and the relation thereto of
converging and parallel streets, the assessing district laid
out in accordance with the charter is of irregular outline.
The lots assessed are by no means uniform in size, nor is
their relation to the improvement uniformly alike. Some
blocks, including some of the plaintiff in error's, are not
subdivided into lots, and are irregular-in shape. But we
are not prepared to hold that the assessment district was
so laid out with reference to plaintiff in error's property
as requires this court to declare the application of the
area rule a denial of due process of law, or of the -equal
protection of the laws. That the assessment, owing to
the difficulties of the situation, made inequalities inevitable, is apparent. The Supreme Court of the State
finds, and we are not prepared to disturb its conclusion,
that the property east and west of Broadway, in the subdivision of the same for the purposes of assessment, was
treated with fairness and with as much equality as the
situation permitted. The attack upon constitutional
grounds because of the system which the charter authorized in making the assessment can only succeed if it
has produced results as to plaintiff in error's property
palpably arbitrary or grossly unequal. This system has
been sustained in many decisions in the Supreme Court
of Missouri, and has long been enforced in practice in that
State. Its application in the instance passed upon in
Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S., supra,
was found to work so arbitrarily as to require an avoidance
of the area assessment upon constitutional grounds. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

frontage rule of assessment, now generally in use, has
been frequently sustained by the decisions of this court.
It may and does in some instances work inequalities in
benefits conferred upon property assessed. In the present
case a calculation found in the brief of the defendant in
error, the correctness of which does not seem to be challenged, shows that if the property had been assessed by
the front-foot rule, that of the plaintiff in error would
have had a larger assessment than the one which resulted
from the method employed.
The Supreme Court of ,Missouri found that no evidence
was offered to sustain the allegations of the cross-bill that
the tax-bills were confiscatory or disproportionate to the
benefits received in that the city escaped paying its just'
proportion of the cost of the improvement because of
its ownership of property within the district.
We are not prepared to say that the plaintiff in error,
because of arbitrary legislative action or the abuse of
power, was denied due process of law or the equal protection of the laws in this assessment.
Affirmed.

COMPARIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS v. ALHAMBRA CIGAR & CIGARETTE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 180.

Submitted January 22, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

An appeal from the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands perfected

before the Act of September 6, 1916, is governed by ยง 248 of the
Judicial Code, which gives this court jurisdiction in all cases in
which any treaty of the United States i: involved. P. 75.

