OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

249 U. S.

SEUFERT BROTHERS COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES, AS TRUSTEE AND GUARDIAN OF
THE CONFEDERATED TRIBES AND BANDS OF
THE YAKIMA INDIANS AND NATIONS, ET AL.
UNITED STATES, AS TRUSTEE AND GUARDIAN
OF THE CONFEDERATED TRIBES AND BANDS
OF THE YAKIMA INDIANS AND NATIONS, ET
AL. v. SEUFERT BROTHERS COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

Nos. 187, 188.

Argued January 29, 30, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The right secured to the Yakima Indians, through their treaty of June
9, 1855, Art. III, 12 Stat. 25, of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in common with citizens of the United States, and of
erecting temporary buildings for curing them, extends to places in
Oregon on the south side of the Columbia River, where these Indians habitually fished before and since the treaty, even though
beyond the limits of the Yakima cession and within the region covered by the similar provision in favor of the Walla-Walla. and
Wasco tribes. (12 Stat. 37.) P. 196.
This provision is not to be construed technically and strictly as an
exception from the general cession made by the Yakimas of lands
north of the river, but must be given effect in accordance with the
broad terms used, as understood by the Indians. P. 198.
233 Fe,' Rep. 579, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. S. Wilson, with whom Mr. A. S. Bennett was
on the briefs, for Seufert Brothers Co.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Leonard Zeisler was on the brief, for the United States,
as trustee, etc., et at.

SEUFERT BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
194.

191'

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
As trustee and guardian of the Yakima Indians, the
Government of the United States instituted this suit in
the Federal District Court for the District of Oregon to
restrain defendant, a corporation, its officers, agents and
employees, from interfering with the fishing rights i a
described locality on the south side and bank of the Columbia River, which it was alleged were secured to the
Indians by Article III of the treaty between them and the
United States, concluded June 9, 1855, and ratified by
the Senate on March 8, 1859 (12 Stat. 25).
The District Court granted in part the relief prayed for
and found as follows: That the "following described portion of the south bank of the Columbia river in the county
of Wasco, state and district of Oregon, was at the time of
the treaty, always has been, and now is, one, of the usual
and accustomed fishing places belonging to and possessed
by the Confederated Tribes and Bands of Indians known
as the Yakima Nation." And the court further decreed
that the rights and privileges to fish in common with
citizens of the United States reserved by said Yakima
Nation and guaranteed, by the United States to it in the
treaty of June 9, 1855, applied to all the usual and accustomed fishing places on the south bank or shore of
the Columbia River, in the decree described.
An appeal from the decree granting an injunction brings
the case here for review.
As stated by counsel for the appellant the most important question in the case is this, "Did the treaty with
the Yakima tribes of Indians, ceding to the United States
the lands occupied by them, on the north side of the Columbia River in the Territory of Washington," and reserving
to the Indians "the right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in common with citizens of the Territory" give them the right to fish in the country of another

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

tribe on the south or Oregon side of the river? The appeal
requires the construction of the language quoted in this
question, and the circumstances incident to the making
of the treaty are important.
Fourteen tribes or bands of confederated Indians, which,
for the purposes of the treaty were considered as one nation
under the name of Yakima Nation, at the time of the
making of the treaty occupied an extensive area in the
Territory, now State, of Washington, which is described
in the treaty, and was bounded on the south by the Columbia River. By this treaty the Government secured
the relinquishment by the Indians of all their rights in
an extensive region, and. in consideration therefor a described part of the lands claimed by them was set apart
for their exclusive use and benefit as an Indian reservation,
and in addition fishing privileges were reserved to them
by the following provision in Article III:
"The exclusive- right of taking fish in all the streams,
where running through' or bordering said reservation, is
further secured to said confederated tribes and bands of
Indians, as also the right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in common with citizens of the Territory,
and of 'erecting temporary buildingsfor curing them."
This treaty was one of a group of eleven treaties negotiated with the Indian tribes of the northwest between
December 26, 1854, and July 16, 1855, inclusive. Six
of these were concluded between June 9th and July 16th,
inclusive, and one of these last, dated June 25th, was with
the Walla-Walla and Wasco tribes, "residing in Middle
Oregon," and occupying a large area, bounded on the
north by that part of the Columbia River in which the
fishing places in controversy are- located (12 Stat. 37).
This treaty contains a provision for an Indian reservation and one saving fishing rights very similar in its terms
to that of the Yakima treaty, viz: "That the exclusive
right of Jaking fish in the streams running through and

SEUFERT BRO. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
194.

Opinion of the Court.

bordering said reservation is hereby secured to said Indians; and at all other usual and accustomed stations, in
common with citizens of the United States, and of erecting
suitable houses for curing the same."
These treaties were negotiated in a group for the purpose of freeing a great territory from Indian claims, preparatory to opening it to settlers, and it is obvious that
with the treaty with the tribes inhabiting Middle Oregon
in effect, the United States was in a position to fulfill any
agreement which it might make to secure fishing rights
in, or on either bank of, the Columbia River in the part
of it now under consideration,-and the treaty was with
the Government, not with Indians, former occupants of
relinquished lands.
The District Court found, on what was sufficient evidence, that the Indians living on each side of the river,
ever since the treaty was negotiated, had been accustomed
to cross to the other side to fish, that the members of the
tribes associated freely and intermarried, and that neither
claimed exclusive control of the fishing places on either
side of the river or the necessary use of the river banks,
but used both in common. One Indian witness, says the
court, "likened the river to a great table where all the Indians came to partake."
The record also shows with sufficient certainty, having
regard to the character of evidence which must necessarily
be relied upon in such a case; that the members of the
tribes designated in the treaty as Yakima Indians, and
also Indians from the south side of the river, were ac-

customed to resort habitually to the locations described
in the decree for the purposes of fishing at the time the
treaty was entered into, and that they continued to do so
to the- time of the taking of the evidence in the case, and
also that Indians from both sides of the river built houses
upon the south bank in which to Ary and cure their fish
during the fishing season.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

This recital of the facts and circumstances of the case
renders it unnecessary to add much to what was said by
this court in United States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371, in
which this same provision of this treaty was considered
and construed. The right claimed by the Indians in that
case was to fishing privileges on the north part and bank
of the Columbia River-in this case similar rights are
claimed on the south part and bank of the river.
The difference upon which the appellant relies to distinguish this from the former case is that the lands of the
Yakima Indians were all to the north of the river and
therefore it is said that their rights could not extend beyond the middle of that stream, and also that since the
proviso we are considering is in the nature of an exception
from the general grant of the treaty, whatever rights it
saves must be reserved out of the thing granted, and as all
of the lands of the Yakima tribes lay to the north of the
river it cannot give any rights on the south bank.
But in the former case (United States v. Winans, supra),
the principle to be applied, in the construction of this
treaty was given this statement:
"We will construe a treaty with the Indians as 'that
"unlettered people' understood it, and 'as justice and reason demand in all cases where power is exerted by the
strong over those to whom they owe care and protection,'
and counterpoise the inequality 'by the superior justice
which looks only to the substance of the right without
regard to technical rules.' 119 U. S. 1; 175 U. S. 1."
How the- Indians understood this proviso we are considering is not doubtful. During all the years since the
treaty was signed they have been accustomed habitually
to resort for fishing to the places to which the decree of
the lower court applies, and they have shared such places
with Indians of other tribes from the south side of the
river and with white men. This shows clearly that their
understanding of the treaty was that they had the right

SEUFERT BROS. CO. r.. UNITED STATES.

194.

199

Opinion of the Court.

to resort to these fishing grounds and make use of them
in common with other citizens of the United States,-and
this is the extent of the right that is secured to them by
the decree we are asked to revise.
To resti ain the Yakima Indians to fishing on the north
side and shore of the river would greatly restrict the comprehensive language of the treaty, which gives them the
right."of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places,
•
and of erecting temporary buildings for curing
them," and would substitute for the natural meaning
of the expression used,-for the meaning which it is
proved the Indians, for more than fifty years derived
from it,-the artificial meaning which might be given to
it by the law and by lawyers.
The suggestion, so impressively urged, that this construction "imposes a servitude 'upon the Oregon soil"
is not alarming from the point of view of the public, and
private owners not only had notice of these Indian customary rights by the reservation of them in the treaty,
but the "servitude" is one existing only where there was
an habitual and customary use of the premises, which
must have been so open and notorious during a considerable portion of each year, that any person, not negligently
or wilfully blind to the conditions of the property he was
purchasing, must have known of them.
The only other questions argued by the appellant relate
to the claims which counsel anticipated would be made on
the cross-appeal by the Government, which, however, was
abandoned before oral argument and must be dismissed.
It results that the decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

