L

BALT. & OH]IO R. R. CO. v. LEACH.
211.

Opinion of the Court.

was correct and in accordance with established legislative
usage. We see no sufficient reason for differing from the
conclusion but think it unnecessary to discuss the question in detail.
Judgment affirmed.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. LEACH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 132. Argued January 15, 16, 1919.-Decided March 10, 1919.

A stipulation in an interstate bill of lading conditioning the shipper's
right to recover for loss or damage to live stock upon delivery cf a
verified claim in writing to a designated agent of the carrier within
five days from the removal of the stock from the cars, held valid;
and not waived; and not substituted by oral notice of the facts to
the connecting carrier's agent. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592.
173 Kentucky, 452, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William W. Crawford, with whom Mr. Alex. P.
Humphrey, Mr. Edward P. Humphrey, Mr. Charles G.
Middleton and Mr. Churchill Humphrey were on the briefs,
for petitioners.
Mr. Frank W. Hackei, with whom Mr. B. M. Lee and
Mr. John S. Blair were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE McRumyi.OLDs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Respondent Leach sued the petitioners for damages
sustained en route by cattle delivered at East St. Loui.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARKE,

J., disenting.

249 U. S.

Illinois, October 1, 1914, for shipment to Georgetown,
Kentucky. In defense the carriers set up non-compliance
with the following provision contained in bill of lading
issued as required by act of Congress: "That no claim
for damages which may accrue to the said shipper under
this contract shall be allowed or paid by the said carrier,
or sued for in any court by the said shipper, unless a claim
for loss or damages shall be made in writing verified by
the affidavit of the shipper or his agent, and delivered to
the General Freight Agent of said carrier at his office in
Cincinnati, Ohio, within five days from the time said
stock is removed from said car or cars, and that if any
loss or damage occurs upon the line of connecting carrier,
then such carrier shall not be liable unless a claim shall
be made in like manner and delivered in like time, to some
proper officer or agent of the carrier on whose line the loss
or injury occurs." This averment was not denied; but
the shipper replied that he promptly advised the railroad's agent at Georgetown of all essential facts and
maintained that -rquirement in respect of written notice
to general freight agent had been waived.
The point involved has been discussed in our recent
opinions and we can find nothing which takes this case
out of the rule requiring compliance with a provision in
a bill of lading like the one above quoted. St. Louis,
Iron Mt. & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Stewart, 248 U. S. 446.
The judgment below is.reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JusTicE PITrNEY

and MR. JusTicn, BAxDuis con-

cur in the result.
MR. JusTicE CLAPuK dissenting.

In this case the shipper sued two connecting interstate

BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. v. LEACH.
217.

CLARKE, J., dissenting.

carriers for damages to a carload of cattle, caused by delay
in transit. Three died in the car and four more within
three or four days of arrival at destination and the defense
sustained by the court is failure to notify the carrier of
claim for damages within five days of unloading.
The carrier pleaded that one of the terms of the bill of
lading was the five-day limitation, quoted in the opinion
of the court. This was immediately preceded, in the same
paragraph, by the following:
"That in the event of any unusual delay or detention of
said live stock caused by the negligence of said carrier,
or its employees, or its connecting carriers, or their employees, or otherwise, the said shipper agrees to accept, as
full compensation for al loss or damage sustained thereby
the amount actually expended by said shipper, in the
purchase of food and water for the said live stock while
so detained."
In Boston & Maine Railroad v. Piper, 246 U. S. 439,
a provision in exactly these terms was held "illegal and
consequently void," as an attempt by the carrier to exonerate itself from loss negligently caused by it. This is
the only provision in the bill of lading, as pleaded, which
is applicable to a claim for delay, such as the shipper made
in this case, and since it is void there is nothing inhe contract for carriage on which the five-day limitation could
operate, for it applied in terms only to claims "for dam*ages which may accrue to the said shipper under this contract."
The suit of the shipper was based on the common-law
liability of the carrier,-not at all on the bill of lading;
the five-day limitation is in terms applicable only to
claims under the bill of lading; the only provision in the
bill of lading applicable to claims for delay was void,
and therefore it seems very clear that the five-day limitation was not available as a defense.
Permit me to add that the many cases coming into this

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

and other courts show that this five-day limitation is unreasonably short and in my judgment, for this reason, it
should be declared void upon its face. Certainly it should
not be made a favorite of the law and extended beyond its
strict terms, in presence of the Act of Congress, approved
March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, declaring that where
in such suit the "damage or injury complained of was due
to delay . . . or damage in transit by carelessness or
negligence, then no notice of claim nor filing of claim shall
be required as a condition precedent to recovery." While
the case before us arose prior to the passing of this act, it
is an important declaration of public policy by Congress,
which should not be overlooked.
For the reasons thus briefly stated, I cannot concur in
the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA also dissents.

STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA v. COLLINS.
IN EQUITY.

No. 10, Original. Submitted March 4,1919.-Decided March 17, 1919.

Under the constitution and laws of South Dakota, interest received
by the state treasurer on state funds deposited by him in bank

belongs to the State, and the treasurer must account therefor.
Judgment for plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clarence C. Caldwell and Mr. Edward W. Wagner
for plaintiff.
No apprance for defendant.

