OC'I'()lUI',:l? TERM, 1918.
Argument for the Bridge Co.

249 U. S.

LOUISVILLE & -JEFFERSONVILLE BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED STATES
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
SHE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 312.

Argued March 28, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

Tihe transferring of twenty-six cars as a unit, for delivery from the
terminal of one company to that of another, without uncoupling
.or switching out any car, by a movement through a distance
of over three-quarters of a mile, 2600 feet of it, with two startings
and stoppings, on main tracks, at speed reaching fifteen miles
per hour, and involving crossings at grade of several city streets,
held, not it mcr6 switching operation but a train movement, subject to the train-brke provisions of the Safety Appliance Act, as
:tmended. P. 538.
The application of the act can not he made to depend on the taking
of Oher than the prescribed precautions, such as providing gates
and watchmen, or upon balamcing the dangers involved in following
its rcdirements against those involved in its neglect. P. 539.

THE . ase is stated in the opinion.
31r. Edward P. Humphrey, with whom Mr. Alex. P.
Humphrey and Mix W.W . Crawford were on the brief,
for Louisville & Jeffersonville Bridge- Co.:
The cars mentioned in the certificate traveled, all told,
a much less distance than those in United States v. Chicago,
Burtbigton. & Quincy R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 410; United
States v. Pere Marquette R. R. Co., 211 Fed. Rep. 220;
Utiiled States v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 775;
.-Ic/ison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States,
198 Fed, Rep. 637; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United

Slates, 226 Fed. Rep. 683; Pennsylvania Co. v. - United
States, 241 Fed. Rep. 828; and United States v. Galveston,
II. & H. R. R. Co., 255 Fed. Rep. 755. Furthermore, the

LOUISVILLE &c. BRIDGE (
.534.

,'. UNIE'I) STATES.

535

Opinion of the Court.

movement was not continuous or between two widely
separated points, but distinctly local, in a circinscrihed
area used for switching purposes, the cars not nmaking a
train trip over the road in the ordinary acceptation of the
term but going back and forth and over switches between
points a very short distance apart.
.A switching movement is none the less such because
the cars pass partly over main track and partly over
side track. In small yards, particularly in country districts, the main track is used extensively for switching
purposes.
It is obvious that no good result can be accomplished
by the continual coupling and uncoupling of air hose
during switching movements, where the cars travel coinparatively short distances, and the cuts are frequently
broken up. Aside from the great expense in the operation
of railroad yards, which would be entailed by enforcing
such a requirement in this case, no good can result, as it
would merdly delay the handling of traffic and increase,
rather than diminish, the danger which such legislation
was intended to prevent.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Frierson was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUsTicE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
certifies to this court for answer the question, whether
the Safety Appliance Act, as amended, requires that 85
per cent. of the train brakes shall be coupled so as to be
under engine control when making the transfer of twentysix cars, in a movement which is described in the court's
certificate.
The pertinent part of the original Act approved March
2, 1893; c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, rehds:.

OCTOBER 'I'1CIC,

1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier engaged in
interstate commerce by railroad to use on its line any
locomotive engine in moving interstate traffic not equipped
with a power driving-wheel brake and appliances for
operating 'the train-brake system or, to run any train in
such traffic . . . that has not a sufficient number of
cars in it so equipped With power or train brakes that the
engineer on the locomotive drawing such train can control
its speed without requiring brakemen to use the common
hand brake for that purpose."
And the relevant part of the amendment, approved
March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943, is:
"And the provisions and requirements liereof and of
sd Acts relating to train brakes . . . shall be held to
dpply to all trains.
.
used on any railroadengaged in
interstate commerce.".

Section 2 of the amendment provides that when any
train is operated with.power or train brakes not less than
50 per cent. of the cars in such train shall have their
brakes used and operated by the engineer of the locomotive, etc. Authority was given. the Interstate Commerce Commission to increase the percentage of cars
in
any train which must have their brakes so used and operated and in 1910 the Commission increased it to 85 per
cent.
The essential facts, somewhat condensed, from the
statement of the Circuit Court of Appeals are:
The Bridge Company, a common carrier engaged in
interstate cormnerce, operates a large terminal yard at
Louisville, Kentucky,*which constitutes the joint terminal
of the Big Four and the Chesapeake & Ohio systems of
railway. The yard is 1800 feet in length, 700 feet in
width, and consists of two main tracks, with from fifteen
to ,twenty-five approximately parallel tracks, which are
connected with the main tracks by leads in the customary
manner.

LOUISVILLE &c. BRIDGE CO. i. UNITED STATES.
534.

537.

Opinion (if the Couri.

For the purposes of this proceeding the following movement of cars was adopted by the parties as typical.
Twenty-six cars were assembled at the easterly end of
the yard of the Bridge Company and were coupled together, but without any of the air brakes being connected,
preparatory to their transfer westerly and delivery into
the Illinois Central yard. The engine was at the easterly
end of the cars, nearly 1100 feet in length, which were
pushed westerly the entire length of the large and necessarily busy yard. Part of this movement in the Bridge
Company's yard, how much does not appear, was over a
main line track, it was necessarily over many connections
with other tracks on which several other engines and
crews must have been working, habitually, and it was
over four city streets at grade, the crossing over the most
westerly one, on account of the grade beyond, being made
at a speed of 15 miles an hour. A short distance from the
exit from the Bridge Company's yard the cars entered
upon a track of the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
used as a main line by both the Big Four and the Chesapeake & Ohio companies, and after they had been pushed
westerly on that track a distance of 1100 feet, they were
stopped on this main track. Next, reversing the movement, the engine, now pulling the cars, moved easterly
over three city streets at grade a distance of 1300 feet on
a traci used by the Chesapeake & Ohio Company for
its through main line trains, and stopped on that track.
Again reversing, the engine, now pushing the cars, ran
westerly over three city streets at grade a distance of
1300 feet, still on the track used as a through main line
track by the Chesapeake & Ohio Company, and then
into the Illinois Central yard, where the cars were delivered.
The contention of the Bridge Company is that the
foregoing describes a mere switching of cars, not a train
movement within the meaning of the act of Congress, and

0()CT01%lI

TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

that, therefore, the requirement that 85 per cent. of the
cars shall have the train brakes upon them used and
operated does not apply.
An engine and twenty-six cars, assembled and coupled
together, not only satisfies the dictionary definition of a
"train of cars," but would certainly be so designated by
men in general and in any fair acceptation of the term
must be regarded as constituting a train within the meaning of the statute. It was a train greater in length..than
most regularly scheduled trains were when this Safety
Appliance Act was passed twenty-six years ago, and even
yet, probably, exceeds in length, passenger and freight
trains considered, more than a majority of the regular
road trains in this country.
The work done with the cars, as described, was not a
sorting, or selecting, or classifying of them, involving
coupling and uncoupling, and the movement of one or a
few at a time for short distances, but was a transfer of
the twenty-six cars as a unit from one terminal into that
of another company for delivery, without uncoupling or
switching out a single car, and it cannot, therefore, with
propriety be called a switching movement.
The movement of this train of cars, 1100 feet in length,
was. for a distance of over three-quarters of a mile, and,
involved crossing, at grade, three city streets once, two'
streets twice, one street three times, and a main t.,
movement of at least 2600 feet, with two stops ana
startings on the main track. This is not only a train
movement, but it would be difficult to imagine one in
which the control of the cars by train brakes would be
more necessary, in order to secure that safety of employees,
of passengers and of the public- which it is the purpose
of the act to secure, by requiring that engineers shall be
given control sufficient to stop any train they may be
moving, promptly on the first signal or sight of danger.
The mere ifiertia of twenty-six cars, which must usually be

LOUISVILLE &c. BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
5,34.

539

Opinion of the Court.

loaded, and especially when running 15 miles an hour, would
render it impossible to control or to stop them promptly
with power-brakes operative only on the engine, and the
ability to use such brakes on the entire train must often
mean the difference between safety and serious accident
when running, as here, in a crowded yard, across busy

city streets and on main line tracks of railroads.
It is argued that coupling of the train brakeswas not
necessary for the reason that the street crossings used
were protected by gates, that a yard master from an
elevated tower watched over the main line movements,
and that the coupling of the train-brake appliances would
involve more danger to the employees than the movement of the cars without their being used and operated.
These suggestions serve to emphasize the dangerous character of the movement. But the construction which the
act should receive is not to be found in balancing the
dangers which woiild result from obeying the law with
those which would result from violating it, nor 'in considering what other precautions will equal, in the promotion of safety, those prescribed by the act. Such considerations were for Congress when enacting the law and
it has repeatedly been-held by this court that other provisions of the Safety Appliance Act impose upon the

carrier the absolute duty of compliance in cases to which
they apply and that failure to ,comply will not be excused
by carefulness to avoid the danger which the appliances
prescribed were intended to guard against, nor by "the
adoption of what might be considered equivalents of the
requirements of the act. St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295; Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Otos, 239 U. S.349; St. Joseph &
Grand Island Ry. Co. v. Moore, 243 U. S.311.
The case falls within the scope of United States v. Erie
R. R. Co., 237 U. S.402, and United States v. Chicayo,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 237 U. S.410, 413, in

OCTOBER. TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

the latter of which it is said that "the controlling test of
the statute's application lies in the essential nature of
the work done."
For the reasons stated in this opinion, the movement
as described in the certificate and the essential nature of
the work done, require that the question of the Circuit
Court, of Appeals be answered in the affirmative.

DARLING v. CITY OF NEWPORT NEWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.
No. 600.

Argued April 15, 1919.-Decided April 28, 1919.

Generally speaking, private rights in land under tidal waters are
subject to the right of the State to use such waters as a depository
for sewage. P. 542.
Plaintiff held oyster beds in the tidal waters of Hampton Roads by
leases from the State of Virginia, under whose laws, as long as he
paid rent, he was declared to have the "exclusive right to occupy"
the land for twenty years, subject to any rights of other persons
previously acquired, with the State's guaranty of an "absolute
right" to continue to use and occupy it for that period. Held:
That the grant, construed strictly, with reference to the public
necessity in that vicinity and previous pollution ,of the water, was
subject to the right of the State to authorize the City of Newport
News to discharge its sewage into the Roads, and that the consequent pollution of the plaintiff's oysters was neither (1) a taking of
his property without due process, nor (2) an impairment of his
contract rights, nor (3), (following the state court) a damage in the
sense of the.Virginia constitution, which requires compensation
for property taken or damaged for public use. P. 543.
123 Virginia, 14, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

