EX PARTE WHITNEY STEAMBOAT CO.
Argument for Petitioner.

EX PARTE WHITNEY STEAMBOAT CORPORATION, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION.
No. 25, Original. Argued December 9, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The jurisdiction acquired by the District Court through an attachment of a vessel on a libel in rem, alid the power of the court to subject the same vessel to a second attachment in a second like action,
are not ousted by a requisition of the use of the vessel, made by
the United States Shipping Board under authority of the Act of
June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, and an order of the President,
for war purposes, but without displacing the custody and possession
of the marshal. P. 118.
And an order of the District Court, made on application of the Shipping
Board, with the consent of the libelants, permitting such vessel to
be put at the service of the Government for war purposes while
still remaining in the custody of the marshal, through the master
as special deputy, for the purposes of the court's jurisdiction, is
not subject to objection by an owner who had entered no appearance for the ship. Id.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander S. Bacon, for petitioner, contended
that no jurisdiction in rem could exist under the second
attachment, mainly because the Government had through
its executive branch taken over the physical possession. The vessel was clearly exempt from seizure. The
Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 154; Thomas A. Scott, 10 L. T.
Rep. H. M. 726; Athol, 1 W. Rob. 374; Broad-Mayne
[1916], 1 P. D. 64; The Pampa, 245 Fed. Rep. 137; The
Davis, 10 Wall. 15, 19.
The Shipping Board could not consent to a suit against
the United States. or affecting its authority.

Schwalby, 162 U. S.255, 270.

Stanley v.

OCTUBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

ivir. Peter S. Carter, with whom Mr. George W. McKenzie
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE. PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioner, a corporation of the State of New York, is
the owner of the steamship H. M. Whitney, her engines,
etc., which vessel, on April 18, 1918, while in petitioner's
possession, was attached by the United States marshal
for the Eastern District of New York in an action in rem
brought by the Patent Vulcanite Roofing Company in
the District Court of the United States for that district.
On April 27, 1918, while the vessel was in the possdssioa
of the deputy marshal under the process in that action,
the United States Shipping Board established by Act
of September 7, 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, acting under
authority of the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182,
and the President's'Executive Order of July 11, 1917,1 inEXECUTIVE ORDER
By virtue of authority vested.in me in the section entitled "Emergency Shipping Fund" of an Act of Congress entitled "An Act Making
appropriations to supply urgent deficiencies in appropriations for the
Military and Naval Establishments on account of war expenses for
the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seventeen,
and for other purposes," approved June 15, 1917, I hereby direct that
the United States Shipping Bc d Emergency Fleet Corporation shall
have and exercise all power and authority vested in me in said section
of said act, in so far as applicable to and in furtherance of the construction of vessels, the purchase or requisitioning of vessels in process of
construction, whether on the ways or already launched, or of contracts
for the construction of such vessels, and the completion thereof, and
all power and authority applicable to and in furtherance of the production, purchase, and requisitioning of materials for ship construction.
And I do further direct that the United States Shipping Board shall
have and 'xcrcise all power and authority vested in me in said section
of said act, in so far as applicablb to and in furtherance of the taking
over of title or possession, by purchase or requisition, of constructed
vessels, or parts thereof, or charters therein; and the operation, management and disposition of such vessels, and of all other vessels hereto-

EX PARTE WHITNEY STEAMBO)AT CO.
115.

Opinion of the Court.

structed one Smith as its agent to take po-,session of the
steamer in behalf of the United States. This Smith did
pro forma on April 29, but without dispossessing the marshal or his deputy. On May 16, Theodore A. Crane's
Sons Company filed its libel in ren against the steamer
in the same court, and under process in this suit the marshal, who already had her in custody, again attached the
vessel. Afterwards, and on May 29, the Shipping Board,
by its counsel, appeared before the court, stated that the
use of the vessel was needed by the Government for war
purposes, that the marshal was still in custody by virtue
of the writs of attachment in the two suits referred to,
and that the Board did not desire to raise an issue over
the possession of the property as between two departments of the Government, and moved the court to direct
the marshal to release her. No appearance having been
entered in behalf of the ship, the court heard proctors
for the libelants and counsel for the Shipping Board, and
on motion of the latter, with consent of the former, made
an order entitled in the two causes directing that the marshal be permitted to appoint the master of the ship as a
special deputy United States marshal, that this deputy
remain in possession of -the vessel in behalf of the marshal,
that the vessel, in his custody, be turned over to the
Shipping Board for purposes connected with the war, the
special deputy marshal or his substitutes to remain always
in possession, and that the vessel be returned to the custody of the marshal upon being released from requisition
by the Shipping Board.
fore or hereafter acquired by the United States. The powers herein
delegated to the United States Shipping Board may, in the discretion
of said Board, be exercised directly by the said Board or by it through
the United States Shipping *Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, or
through any other corporation organized by it for such purpose.
WOODROW WILSON.
The White House,
11 July, 1917.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Thereafter the present petitioner, claimant of the vessel,
appeared specially by counsel and moved the District
Court to quash the attachment in the Crane suit and dismiss the libel on the ground of want of jurisdiction. These
motions, after argument, were overruled; and at a subsequent date motions for a rehearing and for a certificate
of jurisdiction as the basis of a direct appeal to this court
were denied upon the ground that the claimant had no
.standing to attack the validity of the attachment.
Thereafter this court granted leave for the filing of a
petition for a writ of prohibition, and made an order upon
the judges of the District Court to show cause why such
writ should not issue. Return was-made by the judge who
had acted in the Proceedings above mentioned, and, the
matter having been argued here by counsel for the petitioner and by counsel for the Crane Company, the question for decision is whether the prohibition ought to be
issued, or the ordei to show cause discharged.
The validity of the attachment in the suit of the Vulcanite Company and the continued possession of the marshal or his deputy under that process are not in controversy. No bond was given or deposit made for release
of the vessel pursuant to ยง 941, Rev. Stats., or the admiralty
rules of this court or of the District Court. Hence the
vessel remained, for all purposes of the action, in the
custody of the court. The requisition of the Shipping
Board extended merely to the use of the ship for war purposes, and did not in fact take her out of the custody of
the court. So far as any interest of the petitioner was
concerned, there was nothing to prevent the vessel from
being subjected .to attachment under process in the Crane
Company suit; and as she actually was subjected to that
process by the action of the marshal, the jurisdiction of
the court in that suit was complete, and the owner's
only recourse wa- to enter appearance therein, with or
without giving a bond or making a deposit.

NORTH PAC.
115.

,

S. CO. v. HALL BROS. CO.

119

Syllabus.

If the custody of the ship by the officer of the court was
inconsistent with the purposes of the Executive, acting
through the Shipping Board, this was not a matter of
which petitioner could take advantage. The application
of the Board through. its counsel for an order permitting
the vessel to be put at the service of the Government
for war purposes while still remaining in the custody
of the marshal for the purposes of the court's jurisdiction,
consented to by the only other parties who had a standing
in court, was a sufficient warrant for the order made.
Order to show cause discharged and petition dismissed.

NORTH PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. HALL
BROTHERS MARINE RAILWAY & SHIPBUILDING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 53. Argued November 18, 19, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.
A contract for maritime service is within the admiralty jurisdiction,
. although not to be executed upon navigable waters. P. 125.
The place of performance-i. e., whether upon navigable waters or
elsewhere-is but an evidentiary circumstance, to be considered in
determining whether the contract is by nature maritime. Id.
A materialman furnishing supplies or repairs may proceed against the
ship in rem, or against the-master or owner in personam. 12th
Admiralty Rule. P. 126.
While a contract for building a ship or supplying materials for her construction is not maritime, a contract for services, materials, and use
of facilities, for the repair of a vessel already launched and devoted
to maritime use, is a maritime contract; and in this respect it is immaterial whether the repairs are made while she is afloat, in dry
dock or hauled out upon the land. P. 126. The Robert W. Parsons,
-191 U. S. 17, limited.

