OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

SHAFFER v. HOWARD, AUDITOR OF THE STATE
OF OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 375.

Argued December 13, 1918.-Decide d March 10, 1919.

A suit against state officials to enjoin the enforcement of a tax becomes
moot and must be d4smissed on appeal where it appears that defendants' term of office has expired and that their successors have
qualified, when there is no law authorizing a revival or continuance
against the latter.
250 Fed. Rep. 873, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.'
Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser, with whom Mr. George S.
Ramsey, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Villard Martin and
Mr. J. Berry King were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. C. W. King, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, was on the brief,
for appellees.
Memorandum opinion by MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

This suit was commenced against E. B. Howard, auditor
of the State of Oklahoma, and John S. Woofter, sheriff of
Creek County in that State, to enjoin such officials from
enforcing a tax levied under the law of Oklahoma on the
ground of the repugnancy of such tax to the Constitution
of the United States. The court refused an injunction
and dismissed the bill for want of equity, and the case
was brought here.

SHAFFER v. HOWARD.
200.

Opilion of the Court.

Counsel for both parties having stated in answer to an
inquiry on the subject submitted to them by the court
while the cause was pending after argument under submission that the term of office of the defendant officials
had expired and their successors had qualified, and that
there was no law of the State of Oklahoma authorizing
a revival or continuance of the cause of action against
such successors, it follows that the controversy has become merely moot and that we have no authority to
further consider or dispose of it. Warner Valley Stock Co.
v. Smith, 165 U. S. 28, 34; Chandler v. Dix, 194 U. S.
590, 592; Pullman Co. v. Croom, 231 U. S. 571, 575.
True it is that counsel, in agreeing as to the statement
above referred to, suggest that, although the successors
in office of the former defendants intend in the discharge
of their official duties to enforce the tax complained of
unless enjoined from doing so, nevertheless, in view of the
importance to the people of the State that the subjectmatter of the controversy be here determined, a decision
should be made of the pending cause irrespective of the
disappearance of the parties defendant. But the absence
of power which results from such disappearance cannot
be supplied by the request referred to since after all it
amounts to but a suggestion tht that be done which
there is no authority to do; in other words that the cause
be decided in the absence of the parties whose presence
is essential to its decision. United States v. Boutwell,
17 Wall. 604, 609; United States ex rel. Bernardinv. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, 609; Pullman Co. v. Croom, 231 U. S.
571, 576.
It follows therefore that the decree below must be reversed, and the cause be remanded with directions to
dismiss the bill for want of proper parties,
And it is so ordered.

