CROCKER v. MALLEY.
* 220.

Syllabus.

ยง 333, supra, and other statutory provisions, that in
cases like that at bar it is state funds that are deposited
and that earn the interest and not the money of the
treasurer, and that, therefore, the interest becomes a
mere increment of the principal fund and when it is paid
to the treasurer it is in effect paid into the state treasury
and the treasurer becomes liable for it. State v. Schamber,
39 S. Dak. 492.
The report of the referee is approved and judgment
directed to be entered against defendant in the sum of
$32,094.27, with interest thereon at the rate of 7% per
annum from January 1, 1907, and for costs and disbursements of the suit.

CROCKER ET AL., TRUSTEES, '. MALLEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 649.

Argued March 6, 1919.-Decided March 17, 1919.

A law should not be construed to tax the same income twice, unless
the intent to do so be clearly expressed. P. 233.
The shareholders of a milling company, preliminary to winding it up,
caused its active property to be conveyed and its other realty to be
leased to a new corporation, the shares of which were left with persons who also were granted the fee of the leased property, upon a
trust, designated by a name, in which the equitable interests were
divided ratably among the original shareholders, and evidenced by
separable and transferable certificates. The trustees were to hold
the trust property upon trust to convert it into money and distribute
the proceeds at a time left to their discretion, within 20 years after
death of specified living persons, and in the meantime were to have
thc powers of an owner, distributing what they determined to be
fairly distributable net income among the beneficiaries, and applying

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

249 U. S.

funds to repairs or development of the property or the acquisition
of new, pending conversion and distribution. Their compensation,
beyond a stated percentage, was not to be increased, nor were vacancies to be filled or the trust terms modified, without the consent
of a majority in interest of the beneficiaries acting separately, who,
in other respects, had no control, and were declared to be "trust
beneficiaries only, without partnership, associate or any other
relation whatever inter scsc." Held, that neither the trustees nor
the beneficiaries, nor all together, could be regarded as a joint
stock association, within the meaning of ยง II, G. (a), of the
Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913; and that dividends upon
the stock left with the trustees were not subject to the extra tax
imposed by that section. P. 232.
Semble, that the purpose of the act in taxing corporations and joint
stock companies, etc., upon dividends of corporations that themselves pay the tax, was to discourage concentration of corporate
power through holding companies and share ownership. P. 234.
Where a tax is sustained by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
and its invalidity under the statute is not clear, there is probable
cause for its exaction by the collector, and under Rev. Stats., ยง 989,
in an action against him, recovery will be from the United States.
P. 235.
Where a collector, with probable cause, collects an excessive tax, the
amount due the United States should be deducted from the recovery,
in an action against him, and such deduction will conclude the
United States. Id.
250 Fed. Rep. 817, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Felix Rackemann, with whom Mr. Harrison M.
Davis was on the brief, for petitioners:
The act of Congress clearly recognizes the distinction
between the fiduciary and the association or quasicorporation; and from the language of sub-section G. (a),
("not including partnerships") it would even seem doubtful if Congress intended that any body should be excluded
from this class except the ordinary commercial partnerships.
In Massachusetts there is no statute provision in respect

CROCKER v. MALLEY.
223.

Argument for Petitioners.

of any such association as the collector claims to exist
in the case at bar, and the contention of the defendant
must, therefore, rest either upon the quasi-partnership
theory or some other entirely vague and general construction of the words "joint-stock company or association."
The beneficiaries have their common interests and
perhaps equitable titles (or perhaps only rights to an
account and share of proceeds realized by their trustee),
but no immediate right or title to the property and no
voice in its management or disposition, the entire.legal
title and authority being vested iA the trustees.
Whether cestui que trusts are also partners does not
depend-(a) upon the manner of the trust creation; (b)
the pre-existing relations between the settler, or testator,
or trust declarant, and the beneficiaries; (c) the number
of beneficiaries: (d) the nature of the trust assets, or the
use made of them; (e) the fact that the beneficial interests
are evidenced by receipts, certificates, or so-called shares;
(f) nor upon any transferability given, or attempted to
be given, to such receipts or shares. Mayo v. Morito,
151 Massachusetts, 481; Williams v. Milton, 215 Massachusetts, 1, 8. Some additional element is necessary,
and this is provided when cestui que trusts are found with
some control and authority, directly or indirectly, in
the management, and with liability for debts. See Meehan
v. Valentine, 145 U. 5. 611; Bartlett v. Slater, 211 Massachusetts, 334. In each of the numerous Massachusetts
cases, where partnerships or quasi-partnerships were
found to exist, such control, in some form, existed. The
distinction is clearly pointed out and definitely established in Williams v. Milton, supra; and Foster v. Boston,
215 Massachusetts, 31.
There are no facts whatever in the case at bar which
bring it within the rules laid down in the Massachusetts
partnership cases, referred to above. There is no associa-

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

249 U. S.

tion in fact of any kind; there is no basis for the claim of
such association. There are no shareholders' meetings;
no beneficiary has any '(oice in the management, nor
any control whatever over the trustees. There is no
delegated 'authority or management on any theory of
agency. There is no reserved power of control. We have
simply a case in which certain shares of stock and certain
real estate under lease are held by strict trustees under a
written instrument. The beneficiaries have no relations
whatever inter sese; they are in no sense partners nor
"associhtes" for any purpose. Whatever might have
been, the plaintiffs in fact simply held an invested property. They collected the dividends and the rentals and
disbursed the whole net income.
If we turn to the English authorities we find only
confirmation of the principles and distinctions hereinabove set forth. Smith v. Anderson, 50 L. J. Ch. 39;
Crowther v. Thorley, 50 L. T. 43; In re Siddall, 54 L. J.
Ch. 682; In re Thomas, ex parte Poppleton, 54 L. J. Q. B.
336. In this court the law is the same, and the case of
Taylor v. Davis, 110 U. S. 330, is helpful, and perhaps
conclusive. See also In re Associated Trust, 222 Fed.
Rep. 1012; Crocker v. Crocker, U. S. Dist. Court, Massachusetts, May 23, 1914 (not reported).
It is, perhaps, significant that for two years the Treasury
Department assessed taxes to the plaintiffs on the fiduciary
theory here contended for. It is certainly very significant
that the contention of the collector in the case at bar
means double taxation.
The provision in the declaration of trust that the
beneficiaries shall be trust beneficiaries only without
partnership, associate or any other relation whatever
inter sese, is important as bearing on the deciding element
of intent. Williams v. Milton, supra; Taylor v. Davis,
8upra; Ward v. Brigham, 127 Massachusetts, 24, 27.
Neither the trustees, nor their cestui que trusts, nor

CROCKER v. MALLEY.
223.

Argument for Respondent.

both, can be held to form an association, within the terms
of the act, on any other theory than that of partnership.
The words "joint stock" govern the word "association"
just as much as the word "company," and the intent of
sub-section G. (a) was to group only corporations and
joint-stock companies similarly organized. The law
knows the corporation, the partnership, the trust, and,
more recently, the, joint-stock company, which is a large
partnership organized for profit with transferable shares
and often some statute attributes. The law does not
know any other classification.
Under the act, the association must be "organized."
Cf. Eliot v. Freeman, 220 U. S. 186, 187. Where, in this
case, shall we find any organization whatever, particularly
in view of the agreement not to be associates of any kind?
It was certainly not intended to put fiduciaries in the
same class with corporations, because,' by section D,
special provision is made for returns by all fiduciaries.
Counsel then criticised the theory of the court below,
and contended for a strict construction. Gould v. Gould,
245 U. S. 151, 153.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor respondent:
Counsel have argued that this trust is not a partnership. Thus far, there is no quarrel. The Government
has taxed this income under a section of the act which
excludes partnerships from its operation. But counsel
have cited Massachusetts cases holding that similar
trusts are not partnerships and urge them as authority
for the contention that, the trustees are mere fiduciaries.
Williams v. Milton, 215 Massachusetts, 1, and other cases.
An examination of these cases, however, will show that
the court was only called on to determine whether a
particular trust was a partnership or merely some form
of trust not amounting to a partnership. If not a partnership, the question as to just what it was did not arise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Rcspondont.

249 U. S.

In In re Associated Trust, 222 Fed. Rep. 1012, the
court, referring to the Massachusetts cases, held a
trust very similar to this one not a partnership but an
unincorporated company, which is only another name
for an association, within the meaning of the Bankruptcy
Act.
To be within the income-tax law an association is not
required to be one organized under statutory authority.
36 Stat. 11, 112, c. 6, Eliot v. Freeman, 220 U. S. 179;
38 Stat. 166, c. 16; Bouvier's Law Dictionary, vol. 1,
p. 269; 4 Cyc., p. 301; Words and Phrases, yol. 1, p. 584.
It will doubtless be conceded that any form of an unincorporated company is an association within the meaning of this act. Clearly, that is the very kind of organization which it was intended to tax, and probably no better
description of an unincorporated company can be given
than the one found in the case of In re Associated Trust,
srupra.
The court in that case found that the trust before it
had the following features which were similar to those
usually found in corporations, namely: (1) a capital
contributed by the certificate holders; (2) future managers
were to be chosen by the certificate holders; (3) the character, scope, and size of the enterprise might be changed
or terminated by the certificate holders; (4) these rights
were given to the certificate holders in the instrument
by which the trust was constituted.
The present trust has all of these features, with one
slight modification. The certificate holders may not, independently of the trustees, choose future managers or
change the scope of the enterprise or terminate it. They
are not, however, entirely divested of control in this respect. The trustees can do these things only with the
written assent of a majority in interest of certificate holders.
As in a corporation it is not essential that all stockholders shall have the same power of control, or even

CROCKER v. MALLEY.
223.

Argument for Respondent.

that all shall have a voice in the management, so, in this
organization, the original voting power was vested in the
five stockholders who were named as trustees. The
organization would not have been dissimilar to that of a
corporation if this power had been unlimited. As to
certain matters it was unlimited; but as to matters involving a change of the original scheme the certificate
holders were given a right of veto.
Other points of sirilarity between this trust and a
corporation are that both do business under a distinct
name; that the managers of both are not personally liable
for misconduct, errors, or omissions of their agents, if
employed and retained with reasonable care, but only
for the results of their own gross negligence or bad faith;
and that, in those matters as to which the shareholders
are empowered to act, the action of a majoirty, not in
numbers but in interest, binds all. Each party in interest
received a certificate showing what his interest was.
The certificates were transferable. We have here a body
of persons united without a charter, but upon methods
and forms similar in many respects to incorporated bodies
for the prosecution of a business enterprise. The organization is not bound by the acts of the individuals interested
in it, but only by the trustees to whom the management
is conunitted. Shares in it are transferable; it is not
dissolved by the retirement, death, or bankruptcy of any
of the individuals composing it, and these, it is respectfully submitted, include all the essentials of a business
association within the meaning of the income tax law.
A person or corporation making the return required
of a fiduciary reports income which has not accrued to it,
but which has accrued to another who is liable for the
tax. In the case of a mere trust, the rights of the beneficiary must be fixed so that he is entitled to the income
collected and so that his right to it does does not depend
upon the will of a corporation or other organization as to

OCTOBER TERM, 191&

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

whether it shall be distributed or shall be retained as the
property .of the organization collecting it. In this case,
the declaration of trust does not require the distribution
of any particular part of the income. The trustees are
empowered to withhold all of the income and use it for
the development of the trust property itself. They have
the same power that a corporation has to determine
whether profits realized shall be distributed among stockholders or added to the surplus of the corporation. In
either case, no income accrues to the certificate holder
or stockholder until the organization having control of
the business determines whether there shall be a distribution. It follows, therefore, when the Wachusett
Trust collected income from the trust property, that income accrued to the business organization operating
under that name and remained its income until it saw fit
to distribute it. While in its hands it was its income
and not income of the individual certificate holders.
MR. JusTic, HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover taxes paid under protest
to the Collector of Internal Revenue by the petitioners,
the plaintiffs. The taxes were assessed to the plaintiffs
as a joint-stock association within the meaning of the
Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, Section II, G.
(a), 38 Stat. 114, 166,172, and were levied in respect of
dividends received from a corporation that itself was
taxable upon its net income. The plaintiffs say that
they were not an association but simply trustees, and
subject only to the duties imposed upon fiduciaries by
Section II, D. The Circuit Court of Appeals decided
that the plaintiffs, together, it would seem, with those
for whose benefit they held the property, were an association, and ordered judgment for the defendant, reversing
the judgment of the District Court. 250 Fed. Rep. 817.

CROCKER v. MALLEY.
223.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are these. A Maine paper manufacturing
corporation with eight shareholders had its mills on the
Nashua River in Massachusetts and owned outlying land
to protect the river from pollution. In 1912 a corporation was formed in Massachusetts. The Maine corseven mills and let to it an eighth
poration conveyed to lit
that was in process of construction, together with the
outlying lands and tenements, on a long lease, receiving
the stock of the Massachusetts corporation in return.
The Maine corporation then transferred to the plaintiffs
as trustees the fee of the property subject to lease, left
the Massachusetts stock in their hands, and was dis-

solved. By the declaration of trust the plaintiffs declared that they held the real estate and all other property at any time received by them thereunder, subject
to the provisions thereof, "for the benefit of the cestui
que trusts (who shall be trust beneficiaries only, without
partnership; associate or any other relation whatever
inter sese)" upon trust to convert the same into money
and distribute the net proceeds to the persons then holding the trustees' receipt certificates-the time of distribution being left to the discretion of the trustees, but not
to be postponed beyond the end of twenty years after
the death of specified persons then living. In the meantime the trustees were to have the powers of owners.
They were to distribute what they determined to be
fairly distributable net income according to the interests
of the cestui que trusts but could apply any funds in their
hands for the repair or development of the property held
by them, or the acquisition of other property, pending
conversion and distribution. The trust was explained
to be because of the determination of the Maine corporation to dissolve without waiting for the final cash sale
of its real estate and was declared to be for the benefit
of the eight shareholders of the Maine Company who
were to receive certificates subject to transfer and sub-

1918.

OCTOBER TEM1,

249 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

division. Then followed a more detailed statement of
the power of the trustees and provision for their compensation, not exceeding one per cent. of the gross income
unless with the written consent of a majority in interest
of the cestui que trusts. A similar consent was required
for the filling of a vacancy among the trustees, and for a
modification of the terms of the trust. In no other matter
had the beneficiaries any control. The title of the trust
was fixed for convenience as The Wachusett Realty
Trust.
The declaration of trust on its face is an ordinary real
estate trust of the kind familiar in Massachusetts, unless
in the particular that the trustees' receipt provides that
the holder has no interest in any specific property and
that it purports only to declare the holder entitled to a
certain fraction of the net proceeds of the property when
converted into cash "and meantime to income." The
only property expressly mentioned is. the real estate not
transferred to the Massachusetts corporation. Although
the trustees in fact have held the stock of that corporation and have collected dividends upon it, their doing
so is not contemplated in terms by the instrument. It does
not appear very clearly that the eight Maine shareholders
might not have demanded it had they been so minded.
The function of the trustees is not to manage the mills
but simply to collect the rents and income of such property as may be in their hands, with a large discretion in
the application of it, but with a recognition that the
receipt holders are entitled to it subject to the exercise
of the powers confided to the trustees. In fact, the whole
income, less taxes and similar expenses, has been paid
over in due proportion to the holders of the receipts.
There can be little doubt that in Massachusetts this
arrangement would be held to create a trust and nothing
more.

"The certificate holders

.

.

. are in no way

associated together, nor is there any provision in the

CROCKNER r. MALLEY.
223.

Opinion of the Court.

[instrument] for any meeting to be held by them. The
only act which (under the [declaration of] trust) they
can do is to consent to an alteration
. .
of the
trust" and to the other matters that we have mentioned.
They are confined to giving or withholding assent, and
thegiving or withholding it "is not to be had in a meeting,
but is to be given by them individually." "The sole right
of the cestuis que trust is to have the property administered
in their interest by the trustees, who are the masters,
to receive income while the trust lasts, and their share
of the corpus when the trust comes to an end." Williams
v. Milton, 215 Massachusetts, 1, 10, 11; ibid. 8. The
question is whether a different view is required by the
terms of the present act. As by D. above referred to
trustees and associations acting in a fiduciary capacity
have the exemption that individual stockholders have
from taxation upon dividends of a corporation that itself
pays an income tax, and as the plaintiffs undeniably are
trustees, if they are to be subjected to a double liability
the language of the statute must make the intention clear.
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153. United States v. Isham,
17 Wall. 496, 504.
The requirement of G. (a) is that the normal tax thereinbefore imposed upon individuals shall be paid upon
the entire net income accruing from all sources during
the preceding year "to every corporation, joint-stock
cbmpany or a~sociation, and every ihsurance company,
organized in the United States, no matter how created
or organized, not including partnerships."
The trust
that has been described would not fall under any familiar
conception of a joint-stock association, whether formed
under a statute or not. Smith v. Anderson, 15 Ch. Div.
247, 278, 274, 277, 282. Eliot v. F'eeman, 220 U. S. 178,
186. If we assume that. the words "no matter how created
or organized" apply to "association" and not only to
"insurance company," still it would be a wide departure

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

from normal usage to call the beneficiaries here a jointstock association when they are admitted not to be partners in any sense, and when they have no joint action or
interest and no control over the fund. On the other hand,
the trustees by themselves cannot be a joint-stock association within the meaning of the act unless all trustees
with discretionary powers are such, and the special provision for trustees in D. is to be made meaningless. We
perceive no ground for grouping the two-beneficiaries
and trustees-together, in order to turn them into an
association, by uniting their contrasted functions and
powers, although they are in no proper sense associated.
It seems to be an unnatural perversion of a well-known
institution of the law.
We do not see either that the result is affected by any
technical analysis of the individual receipt holder's rights
in the income received by the trustees. The description
most in accord with what has been the practice would
be that, as the receipts declare, the holders, until distribution of the capital, were entitled to the income of the
fund subject to an unexercised power in the trustees in
their reasonable discretion to divert it to the improvement
of the capital. But even if it were said that the receipt
holders were not entitled to the income as such until
they got it, we do not discern how that would turn them
into a joint-stock company. Moreover, the receipt holders
did get it and the question is what portion it was the
duty of the trustees to withhold.
We presume that the taxation of corporations and
joint-stock companies upon dividends of corporations
that themselves pay the income tax was for the purpose
of discouraging combinations of the kind now in disfavor,
by which a corporation holds controlling interests in other
corporations which in their turn may control others, and
so on, and in this way concentrates a power that is disapproved. There is nothing-of that sort here. Upon the

CROCKER v. MALLEY.
223.

Opinion of the Court.

whole case we are of opinion that the statute fails to show
a clear intent to subject the dividends on the Massachusetts corporation's stock to the extra tax imposed by G. (a).
Our view upon the main question opens a second one
upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals did not have to
pass. The District Court while it found for the plaintiffs,
riled that the defendant was entitled to retain out of
the sum received by him the amount of the tax that
they should have paid as trustees. To this the plaintiffs
took a cross writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
There can be no question that although the plaintiffs
escape the larger liability, there was probable cause for
the defendant's act. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue rejected the plaintiffs' claim, and the statute
does not leave the matter clear. The recovery therefore
will be from the United States. Rev. Stats., ยง 989. The
plaintiffs, as they themselves alleged in their claim, were
the persons taxed, whether they were called an association or trustees. They were taxed too much. If the
United States retains from the amount received by it
the amount that it should have received, it cannot recover
that sum in a subsequent suit.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

