OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

FROHWERK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 685. Argued January 27, 1919.-Decided March' 10, 1919.
The First Amendment, while prohibiting legislatio~against free speech
as such, was not intended to give immunity to every possible use of
language. P. 206.
A conspiracy to obstruct recruiting by words of persuasion merely,
viz, by circulating newspaper publications-with overt acts, is
within the Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, and within the power of
Congress to punish. Pp. 206, 208. Schenck v. United States, ante, 47.
After conviction under an indictment charging such a conspiracy and,
as overt acts, the circulation of newspapers containing articles which
might well tend to effect its object if circulated in certain places,
the court must assume, in the absence of a bill of exceptions, that
the evidence as to the quarters reached by the newspapers and the
scienter and expectation of the defendant, was sufficient to sustain
the conviction. P. 208.
A conspiracy to obstruct recruiting in violation of the Espionage Act
is criminal even when no means have been specifically agreed on to
carry out the intent; and hence it is not an objection to an indictment that means are not alleged. P. 209.
Neither, in.rch an indictment, is it necessary to allege that false reports were made or intended to be made. Id.
An allegation that defendants conspired to accomplish an object necessarily alleges their intent to do so. Id.
Under ยง 4 of the Espionage Act of 1917, the overt acts are sufficiently
alleged as done to effect the object of the conspiracy. Id.
An indictment is not bad for duplicity in setting up in a single count a
conspiiacy to commit two offenses; the conspiracy is a unit, however diverse its objects. Id.
There is no merit in the suggestion that acts which are not treasonable
cannot be punished under the Espionage Act of 1917, upon the
theory that other acts. included in the statute amount to treason and
- can only be punished as such. P. 210.
The amendment of 1918, did not affect indictments found under the
Espionage Act of 1917. Id.

FROHWERK v. UNITED STATES.
-204.

Opinion of the Court.

Abuse of discretion is not established by the facts that, upon overruling
a demurrer to an indictment, the District Court on the next day
ordered a plea of not guilty to be entered, refused a continuance,
empanelled i jury, out of those previously called to meet on that day
for the term, and set the trial to begin on the day following. Id.

Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frans E. Lindquist and Mr. Joseph D. Shewalter
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John Lord O'Brian, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Alfred Bettman, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment in thirteen counts. The first
alleges a conspiracy between the plaintiff in error and one
Carl Gleeser, they then being engaged in the preparation
and publication of a newspaper, the Missouri Staats
Zeitung, to violate the Espionage Act of June 15, 1917,
c. 30, ยง 3, 40 Stat. 217, 219. It alleges as overt acts the
preparation and circulation of twelve articles, &c. in the
said newspaper at different dates from July 6, 1917, to
December 7 of the same year. The other counts allege
attempts to cause disloyalty, mutiny and refusal of duty
in the military and naval forces of the United States,
by the same publications, each count being confined to
the publication of a single date. Motion to dismiss and a
demurrer on constitutional and other grounds, especially
that of the First Amendment as to free speech, were overruled, subject to exception, and the defentant refusing to
plead the Court ordered a plea of not guilty to be filed.
There was a trial and Frohwerk was found guilty on all

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

the counts except the seventh, which needs no further
mention. He was sentenced to a fine and to ten years
imprisonment on each count, the imprisonment on the
later counts to run concurrently with that on the first.
Owing to unfortunate differences no bill of exceptions
is before us. Frohwerk applied to this Court for leave to
file a petition for a writ of mandamus requiring the judge
to sign a proper bill of exceptions, but a case was not
stated that would warrant the issuing of the writ and
leave was denied. Ex parte Frohwerk, 248 U. S. 540. The
absence of a bill of exceptions and the suggestions in the
application for mandamus have caused us to consider the
case with more anxiety than if it presented only the constitutional question which was the theme of the piincipal
argument here. With regard to that argument we think
it necessary to add to what has been said in Schenck v.
United States, ante, 47, only that the First Amendment
while prohibiting legislation against free speech as such
cannot have been, and obviously was not, intended to
give immunity for every possible use of language. Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281. We venture to believe
that neither Hamilton nor Madison, nor any other competent person then or later, ever supposed that to make
criminal the. counselling of a murder within the jurisdiction of Congress would be an unconstitutional interference with free speech.
Whatever might be thought of the other counts on the
evidence, if it were before us, we have decided in Schenck
v. UnitedStates, that a person may be convicted of a conspiracy to obstruct recruiting by words of persuasion.
The Government argues that on the record the question
is narrowed simply to the power of Congress ,o puiish
such a conspiracy to obstruct, but-we shall take it in
favor of the defendant that the publications set forth as
overt acts were the only means and, when coupled with
the joint activity in producing them, the only evidence of

. FROHWERK v. UNITED STATES.

204.

Opinion of the Court.

the conspiracy alleged.. Taking it that way, however,
so far as the language of the articles goes there is not
much to choose between expressions to be found in them
and those before us irn Schenck v. United States.
The first begins by declaring it a monumental and inexcusable mistake to send our soldiers to France, says
that it comes no doubt from the great trusts, and later
that it appears to be outright murder without serving
anything practical; speaks of the unconquerable spirit
and undiminished strength of the German nation, and
characterizes its own discourse as words of warning to
the American people. Then comes a letter from one of
the counsel who argued here, stating that the present
force is a part of the regular army raised illegally; a matter
discussed at length in his voluminous brief, on the ground
that before its decision to the contrary the Solicitor General misled this Court as to the law. Later, on August .3,
cane discussion of the causes of the war, laying it to the
adninistration and saying "that a few men and corporations might amass unprecedented fortunes we sold our
honor, our very soul," with the usual repetition that we
went to war to protect the loans of Wall Street. Later,
after more similar discourse, comes "We say .therefore,
cease firing."
Next, on August 10, after deploring "the draft riots in
Oklahoma and elsewhere" in language that might be
taken to convey an innuendo of a different sort, it-is said
that the previous talk about legal remedies is all very well
for those who are past -the draft age and have no boys to
be drafted, and the paper goes on to give a picture, made
as moving as the, writer was able to make it, of the sufferings of a drafted man, of his then recognizing that his
country is not in danger and that, he is being sent to a
foreign land to fight in a cause that neither he'nor any
one else knows anything of, and reaching the conviction
that this L but a war to protect some rich men's money.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249' U. S.

Who then, it is asked, will pronounce a' verdict of guilty
upon him if he stops reasoning and follows the first impulse of nature: self-preservation; and further, whether,
while technically he is wrong in his resistance, he is notV
more sinned against than sinn 'g and yet again whether
-the guilt of those who 'Votd the unnatural sacrifice is
not greater than the wrong of those who now seek to escape by ill-advised resistance. On August 17 there is
quoted and applied to our own situation a'remark to the
effect that when rulers scheme to use it for their own aggrandizement- loyalty serves to perpetuate wrong. On
August 31, with more of the usual discourse, it is said that
the sooner the, public wakes up to the fact that we are
led and ruled by England, the better; that our sons, our
taxes and our sacrifices are only in the interest of England.
On September 28 there is a sneering contrast between
Lord Northcliffe and other Englishmen spending many
hundreds of thousands of dollars here to drag us into the
war and Count Bernstorff spending a few thousand to
maintain peace between his own country and us. Later
follow some compliments to Germany and a statement
that the Central Powers are carrying on a defensive war.
There is much more to the general effect that we are in
the wrong and are giving false and hypocritical reasons
for our course, but the foregoing is enough to indicate the
kind of matter with which we have to deal.
It may be that all this might be said or written even
in time of war in circmstances that would not make it "

a crime. We do not lose our right to condemn either
measures or men because the Country is at war. It does
not appear that there was any special effort to reach men
who were subject to the draft; and if the evidence should
show that the defendant was,/4poor man, turning out
copy for Gleeser, his *employer,at less than a day laborer's
pay, for Gleeser to use or reject as he saw fit, in a newspaper of small circulation, there would be a natural in-

.FROHWERK v. UNITED STATES.
204.

Opinion of the Court.

clination to test every question of law to be found in the
record very thoroughly before upholding the very severe
penalty imposed. But we must take the case on the
record as it is, and on that record it is impossible to say
that it might not have been found that the circulation
of the paper was in quarters where a little breath would
-be enough to kindle a flame and that the fact was known
and relied upon by those who sent the paper out. Small
compensation would not exonerate the defendant if it
were found that he expected the result, even. if pay were
his chief desire. When we.consider that we do not know
how strong the Government's evidence may have been
we find ourselves unalle to say that the articles could not
furnish a basis for a conviction upon the ,first count at
least. We pass therefore to the other ,points that are
raised.
It is said that the first count is bad because it does not
allege the means by which the conspiracy was to be carried
out. But a conspiracy to obstruct recruiting would be
criminal even if no means were agreed upon specifically
by which to accomplish the intent. It is enough if the
parties agreed to set to work for that common purpose.
That purpose could be accomplished or aided by persuasion as well as by false statements, and there was no need

to allege that false teports were intended to be made or
i ade. It is argued, that there is no sufficient allegation
4 intent* but intent to accomplish an object cannot be
alleged more clearly than by stating that parties conspired
to accomplish it. The overt acts are alleged to have
been done to effect the object of the conspiraty and that
is sufficient under ยง 4 of the'Act of 1917. Countenance
we believe has been given by some Courts to the notion
that a single count in an indictment for conspiring to commit two offences is bad for duplicity. This Court has
given it none. Buckeye Powder Co. v. DuPont Powder Co.,
248' U. $. 55, 60, 61; Joplin IMercantile Co.. v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

States, 236 U. S. 531, 548. The conspiracy is 'the crime,
and that is one, however diverse its objects. Some reference was made in the proceedings ahd in argument to the
provision in the Constitution concerning treason, and it
was suggested on the one hand that some of the matters
dealt with in the Act of 1917 were treasonable and punishable as treason or not at all, and on the other that the acts
complained of not being treason could not be punished.
These suggestions seem to us to need no more than to be
stated. The amendment of the Act of 1917 in 1918 did
not affect the present indictment. Schenck v. United
States, supra. Without pursuing the matter further we
are of opinion that the indictment must stand.
Before the demurrer was disposed of the Court had
ordered jurymen to be summoned to serve for the April
term of the Court and to report for service on June 25,
1918, as of course it might. The demurrer was overruled
on June 24, and on the following day the plea of not guilty
was ordered to be entered, a continuance was refused, a
jury was empanelled and the trial set to begin the next
morning. ,There is nothing before us that makes it possible to Say that the judge's discretion was wrongly exercised. Upon the whole case we are driven to the
conclusion that the record shows no ground upon which the
judgmefit can be reversed.
Judgment affirmed.

