OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
SvIllibus.

249 U. S.

583. Consolidated Traction Co. v. South Orange & Maplewood Traction Co., 56 N. J. Eq. 569, 574, et seq. 3 Dillon
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., § 1241, p. 1983. If we
are wrong and if the crossings or the manner of operating
the parallel tracks should give or has given rise to any
claim, the decree will be without prejudice to such claim.
We assume in accordance with the plaintiff's evidence
and argument that the damage may be considerable and
we think it just to leave open whatever can be left open,
but at present we cannot say that the loss is or. will be of
such a character that it must be paid for, and we are
satisfied that it is not such as to call for equitable relief.
A general solicitation of offers for sale to the city of
any existing street railway in San Francisco was passed
by the Board of Supervisors and was ordered to be sent
and was sent to the plaintiff, among others. We agree
with the District Court that Article XII, § 2 of the City
Charter does not better the plaintiff's case.
Decree affirmed without prejudice to further proceedings
to recover any damages to which the plaintiff may be
entitled.

CHALKER, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON
OF ESTATE OF WRIGHT, ET AL. v. BIRMINGHAM & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 283.

Argued March 25, 26, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A state law making the amount of annual tax for the privilege of doing

railroad construction work depend on whether the person taxed

has his chief office in the State, viz., $25.00 if he has and $100.00 if

CHALKER r. BIRMINGHAM & N. \V. 1Y. (.0.
522.

523

Argument for Defendantsin Error.

he has not--diseriminates against citizens of other States, iii violation of Art. IV, § 2, of the Constitution. P. 526.
And a citizen of another State who would be liable for the larger tax,
if valid, may question its validity without first tendering the lower
tax. P. 528.
138 Tennc 3ee, 145, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. E. Pigford, with whom Mr. Watson E. Coleman
and Mr. W. N. Key were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. R. F. Spragins, with whom Mr. Joseph W. Cox
and Mr. W. H. .Biggs were on the briefs, for defendants
inerror.
The act applies alike to residents and nonresidents;
to citizens of Tennessee as well as to citizens of other
States. To argue that few non-resident persons, firms
or corporations have their chief offices in Tennessee, or
that few resident in Tennessee have their chief offices
elsewhere, does ndt prove discrimination. It is a fact of
common knowledge that many have their chief offices in
States other than the States in which they reside or are
domiciled.
If it is competent for the legislature to exempt from
the payment of a privilege tax merchants having their
manufacturing plants where goods are offered for sale
located within the State, and yet impose the tax on those
merchants who have their places of manufacture in another State (Armour & Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S.1,) manifestly it was competent for the legislature, for a stronger
reason, to make the distinction made in this statute treating all -alike under the same circumstances. Reymann
Brewing Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S.445.
The statute can be sustained as a tax measure, and
also under the police power as regulating a business. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

249 U. S.

is within the legislative power of classification, because
the distinction made is based on substantial reasons.
The business of constructing railroads and other like
public works is peculiar. Ordinarily, such construction
concerns have and should have the chief office, or a chief
office, at or near the Work of construction. Usually such
contracts involve large sums, and many laborers and subcontractors are employed on the work. Generally the
common labor employed consists of foreigners. The State
and the public' have an interest in the proper performance
of such work, as the public service is involved, and the
right of eminent domain is given. It may be deemed
important t6 the proper performance of such work that
the chief office be located at or near it. As indicated in
the case at bar, the complainant neglected his work and
breached his contract, as found by the jury, and his bill
shows that he failed to settle with his sub-contractors.
Those undertaking suc h contracts frequently fail and
become bankrupt. In practically all such cases, the
rights and claims of laborers, sub-contractors and materialmen are vitally affected, and it is important that they
have a remedy by suit and a personal -judgment as well
as by attachment and garnishment, which they probably
would not have except when the chief office of the principal contractor is within the State.
The State is further justified in making the distinction
for the reason that the concern having a chief' office
within the State would likely be liable for and pay ad
valorem taxes as well as the privilege tax; it would likely
have funds, contracts, securities and other property within
the State at its chief office subject to state taxation;
it would, under the laws of Tennessee, be subject to suit
and service of process and personal judgment in the State,
which would not be the case if there were no chief office
there;'and it would be subject to garnishment in the State
as to sums due to sub-contractors and laborers, and would

CHAIRER r. IURMIIN(AJAM ,&N. W. IPY.
522.

Opinion

uif

O. :,2h

the Court.

have there its books of account and other documents and
papers within the jurisdiction of the state courts, and
subject to subpena duces* tecum. Furthermore, it is
more difficult to collect the privilege tax from those having
their chief office out of the State. [Among the cases cited
were: Leim v. McCall, 219 U. S. 175; McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1; Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota,
226 U. S. 157; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Bell's
Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylhannia, 134 U. S. 232; Magoun
v. Illinois Trust & Satings Bank, 170 U. S. 293; Lindsley
v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 76; Toyota v.
Hawaii, 226 U.S. 190; Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S.477;
Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452; Southwestern Oil
Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114.]
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

colirt.
The point for determination is the liability of J. W.
Wright, Jr.,..a citizen and resident of Alibama with his
chief office therein, who engaged in the business of constructing a railroad in Tennessee, for the tax prescribed
by §4 of "An Act. to provide revenue for the State of
Tennessee and the counties and municipalities thereof,"
approved May 1, 1909 (Acts of Tenn., 1909, c. 479, pp.
1726, 1727, 1735) which provides:
"Sec. 4. Be it further enacted, That each vocation,
occupation, and business hereinafter' named in this section
is hereby declared to be a privilege, and the rate of taxation
on such privilege shall be as hereinafter fixed, which

privilege tax shall be paid to the County Court Clerk as
provided by law for the collection of revenue.
"Each foreign construction company, with its chief
-office outside of this State, operating or doing business

OC'I BE. TERMIM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

in this State, directly or by agent, or by any subletting
contract, each, per annum, in each county . . . $100.00
"Each domestic construction company and each foreign
construction company, having its chief office in this State,
doing business in this State, each, per annum, in each
county.........................
. $25.00.
"The above tax shall be paid by persons, firms, or
corporations engaged in the business of constructing
bridges, waterworks, railroads, street-paving construction
work, or other structures of a public nature."
Replying to the claim that the statute in effect dis-'
criminates against citizens of other States, the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, 138 Tennessee, 145, 152, 153, said:
"The determining feature in the legishition quoted is the
having' of one's chief office in this State. Any citizen
of this State, as well as any citizen of a foreign State,
ivho has his chief office out of the State, must ay -the.
$100 tax; so of. any-domestic corporation, as well as foreign
corporation, having its-chief'office out of the State. Any,
foreign corporation or citizen of another State, or firm,
as well as,-domestic corporations, citizens of this State,
and firms of this State having its or their chief office in
this State, are all alike entitled to carry on a railroa4
consiruction business here on the payment of $25. There
is no discrimination at all."
With this conclusion we are unable to agree. Accepting
the construction placed uponit by the Supreme Court, we
think the quoted section does discriminate between citizens
of Tennessee and those of other States by imposing a
higher charge on the latter than it does on,the former,
contrary to § 2, Art. IV of the Federal Constitution"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States."
The power of a State to make reasonable-and natural
classifications for purposes of taxation -is clear and not
questioned; but neither under form of classification nor

CHALKER i. BIRMINGHAM & N. W. RY. CO. 527
522.

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise can any State enforce taxing laws which in
their practicdl operation materially abridge or impair the
equality of commercial privileges secured by the Federal
Constitution to citizens of the several States.
"'Excise taxes, it is everywhere conceded, may be imposed by the States, if not in any sense discriminating;
but it should not be forgotten that the people of the
several States live under one common Constitution, which
was ordained to establish justice, and which, with the
laws of Congress, and the treaties made by the proper
authority, is the supreme law of the land; and that that
supreme law requires equality of buiden, and forbids
discrimination, in State taxation when the power is applied
to the citizens of the other States. Inequality of burden, as
well as the want of uniformity in commercial ,regulations,
was one of the grievances of the citizens under the Con-'
federation; ,and the new Constitution was adopted, among
other things, to remedy those defects in the prior system."
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 431; Guy v. Baltimore,
100 U. S.434, 439; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.239, 254;
Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113, 121.
, As the chief office of an individual is commonly in 'the
State of which he is a citizen, Tennessee citizens engaged
in constructing railroads in that State will ordinarily
have their chief offices therein, while citizens of other
States so engaged will not. Practically, therefore, the
statute under consideration would produce discrimination
against citizens of other States by imposing higher charges
against them than citizens of Tennessee are required to
pay. We can find no adequate basis for taxing individuals
according to the location of their chief offices-the classification, we think, is arbitrary and unreasonable. Under
the Federal Constitution a citizen of one State is guaranteed the right to enjoy in all other States equality of
commercial privileges with their citizens; but he cannot
have his chief office in every one of them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

249 U. S.

It is insisted that no tender of any sum for license tax
was made in time, and therefore plaintiffs in error cannot
question the validity of the enactment because of discrimination. But the Supreme Court expressly declared
that the statute fixed the ,liability of Wright at one hundred dollars. A tender of less would have availed nothing
and it was therefore unnecessary.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedhigs not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN- RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL. v. SCARLET.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 242.

Argued March 18, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A state law relieving the plaintiff of the burden of proving negligence
is constitutionally inapplicable to a case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 529. New Orleans & Northeastern R. R.
('o. v.Harris. 247 U. S.307.
Under the Boiler Inspection Act, the mere breaking of a king pin and
coupling chains, without other evidence, does not establish, as a
n.atter of law, that they were defective. P. 530.
When the decisibn of the state court upholds a state statute in conflict with a valid law of the United, States, review is by writ of error.

Id.
115 Mississippi. 285, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. Monte M. Leinann, Mr. Albert S. Bozeman, Mr. L. E. Jeffries, Mr.

