ST. LOUIS POSTER ADV. Co. v. ST. LOUIS.
265.

269

Syllabus.

distinction between such restaurants and others. If in
its theory the distinction is justifiable, as for all that we
know it is, the fact that some cases, including the plaintiff's, aru very near to the line makes it none the worse.
That is the inevitable result of drawing a line where the
distinctions are distinctions of degree; and the constant
business of the law is to draw such lines. "Upholding the
act as embodying a principle generally fair and doing
as nearly equal justice as can be expected seems to import that if a particular case of hardship arises under it
in its natural and ordinary application, that hardship
must. be borne as one of the imperfections of human
things." Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S.430, 434. We cannot pronounce the
statute void.

Judgment affirmed.

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADVERTISING COMPANY v.
CITY OF ST. LOUIS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADVERTISING COMPANY v.
CITY OF ST. LOUIS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Nos. 220 and 2. Argued March 12, 13, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.
A city ordinance allowing no billboard of 25 square feet or more to be
put up without a permit, and none to extend more than 14 feet high
above ground; requiring an open. space of 4 feet between th3 lower
edge and the ground; forbidding an approach of nearer than 6 feet
to any building or to the side of any lot than 2 feet to any . other

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

billboard or 15 feet to the street; requiring conformity to the building
line; limiting billboards in area to 500 square feet; and exacting a
permit-fee of one dollar for every 5 lineal feet; held within the police
power. P. 274. Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526.
Making billboards safe against wind and fire may not exempt them
from the power of restriction or prohibition. Id.
Such regulations may not improperly include incidental and relatively
trifling requirements founded in part at least on :esthetic reasons,
such as a requirement of conformity to a building line. Id.
A high tax imposed by a city on billboards for the purpose of discouraging them is not objectionable under the Constitution. Id.
It is not an answer to an ordinance regulating the size, etc., of billboards, that they are on land leased or belonging to their owner, or
that their owner has contracted ahead to maintain advertisements
upon them, or that the size of board allowed is too small for standard
posters and that these cannot be changed without affecting the
business disastrously. Id.
195 S. W. Rep. 717, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Marion C. Early,for plaintiff in error and appellant,
contended that this case differed, toto celo, from the Gunning Case, 235 Missouri, 99, upon which great reliance
was placed by the city. In that case, though involving
the same ordinances, the cornerstone of the decision
was the finding that the billboards there under consideration were dangerous to public safety and injurious ,to
public health and morals, and, because of that finding,
the regulations were upheld as proper exercise of the police
power. In this case, per contra, the allegations of the bill,
framed with elaboration for the very purpose of avoiding
that decision, and confessed by the demurrer, did away
with the possibility of any such finding, shoving conclusively that the billboards here in question are hot dangerous to health, safety or morals, on any theory. Also, the
case of Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, while laying
stress upon the presumptions in favor of local action,"
concedes expressly the duty of this court to interfere whei

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADV. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
269.

271

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that action, plainly and palpably, "has no real or substantial relation to the public health, safety, morals, or to
the general welfare." Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 661;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; People v. Weiner, 271
Illinois, 74; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133. Surely the
presumption cannot be made conclusive without destroying all protection under the Fourteenth Amendment
against local legislation asserting itself to be an exercise
,of the police power. This court has declared itself in
duty bound to investigate whether the facts justifying
such exercise actually exist.
There is nothing to justify the requirement that boards
shall be 15 feet from the street line. This could only have
relation to the danger of their being blown down, which
is absent in this case. So of the regulation as to height;
it has no possible relation to health or morals, but only
to safety, and that danger is here eliminated. The fact
that such boards in some cases may be carelessly constructed will not warrant their absolute prohibition, but
only regulations to insure their safety. Passaic v. Patterson Bill Posting Co., 72 N. J. L. 285; State v. Lamb, 98
Atl. Rep. 459; State v. Whitlock, 149 N. Car. 542; Crawford v. Topeka, 51 Kansas, 756; People v. Weiner, 271 Illinois, 74; Chicago v. Gunning System, 214 Illinois, 628.
The restrictions as to nearness of approach to buildings and the space between billboards can only be referred
to danger from fire-not present here; and, as regards
the public health and morality, these boards are so constructed and maintained as not to constitute a nuisance
in law or in fact.
The regulations requiring conformity to the building
ine can, rest only on awsthetic considerations, and they
do not warrant exercise of the police power. St. Louis
gunning Co. v. St. Louis, 235 Missouri, 99; Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 133; Fisher v.. Woods, 187 N. Y. 90; Austin v.
Murray, 16 Pick. 126; People v. Murphy, 195 N. Y. 126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S,

The cost of 'building-permits, in tle case of billboards, is
several hundred times what is required for other stictures.
This discrimination, apparent on the face of the ordinance,
must be condemned as unconstitutional. The whole
ordinance, so far as it deals With billboards, is based on no
public policy, but on hostility to a legitimate business.
St. Louis Gunning Co. v. St. Louis, 235 Missouri, (dissent)
208; State v. Layton, 160.Missouri, 474.
Counsel cited and analyzed the following cases, in
which billboard regulations were held void. Haller Sign
Works v. Training School, 249 Illinois, 436; Commonwealth v. Boston Advertising Co, 188 Massachusetts,
438; People v.Green, 85 App. Div. 400; Varney v. Williams,
155 California, 318; Bryant v. Chester, 212 Pa. St. 259;
Chicago v. Gunning System, 214 Illinois, 628; Curran Bill
Posting Co. v. Denver, 47 Coldrado,, 221; Crawford v.
Topeka, 51 Kansas, 756; Passaic v. Patterson Bill Posting Co., 72 N. J. L. 285; State v. Whitlock, 149 N.
Car. 542.
Mr. Everett Paul Gri n, with whom Mr. Charles H.
Daues was on the brief, for defendants in error and appellees.
MR. JusFc

Hoiu S delivered the opinion of the

court.
The first mentioned of these cases was brought by the
plaintiff in error in a State Court of Missouri to prevent
the City of St. Louis and its officials from enforcing an
ordinance regulating the erection of billboards, on the
ground that the ordinance is contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment in various respects. The suit was begun
on March .21, 1914, and on May 22, 1917, a judgment of
that Court dismissing it upon demurrer was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State. 195 S. W. Rep. 717.

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADV. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
269.

273

Opinion of the Court.

The other case was begun a little earlier, on January 30,
1914, in the District Court of the United States, by a bill
in equity substantially to the same effect as in the state
case. The bill was dismissed upon motion on February 19,
1914. The two cases appear to have proceeded to a conclusion without any reference to each other, but as they
involve the same'parties and the same questions they have
been argued as one case here.
The ordinance complained of is number 22,022, passed
on April 7, 1905. It allows no billboard of twenty-five
square feet or more to be put up without a permit and
none to extend more than fourteen feet high above the
ground. It requires an open space of four feet to be left
between the lower edge and the ground, forbids an approach of nearer than six feet to any building or to the
side of the lot, or nearer than two feet to any other billboard, or than fifteen feet to the street line, and with qualifications requires conformity to the building line. No
billboard is to exceed five hundred square feet in area.
The fee for a permit is one dollar for every five lineal feet.
The bill states that the size of posters has been standardized and cannot be changed without great expense and
that the limits in size fixed for the boards are too small
for such posters and will affect the plaintiff's business
disastrously. The billboards are all upon private ground
owned by or let to the plaintiff. They are built to withstand a windstorm of eighty-three miles an hour, a greater
velocity than any known in St. Louis, and the frames and
facing are'of galvanized iron so as to exclude all danger of
fire. The plaintiff has contracts running from six months
to three years binding it to maintain advertisements upon
its boards. The defendants are proposing to tear down
these boards, unless the plaintiff complies with the ordinance. This is a greatly abbreviated statement of the
case but is sufficient, we believe, to present the questions
that we have to decide.

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Of course, the several restrictions that have been mentioned are said to be unreasonable and unconstitutional
limitations of the liberty of the individual and of rights
of property in land. But the argument comes too late.
This Court has recognized the correctness of the decision
in St. Louis Gunning Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 235
Missouri, 99, followed in this case, that billboards properly
may be put in a class by themselves and prohibited "in
residence districts of a city in the interest of the safety.
morality, health and decency of the community." Cusack
Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 529, 530. It is true that according to the bill the plaintiff has done away with dangers
from fire and wind, but apart from the question whether
those dangers do not remain sufficient to justify the general
rule, they are or may be the least of the objections adverted to in the cases. 235 Missouri, 99. Kansas City
Gunning Advertising Co. v. Kansas City, 240 Missouri,
659, 671. Possibly one or two details, especially the requirement of conformity to the building line, have Eesthetic
considerations in view more obviously than anything
else. But as the main burdens imposed stand on other
ground, we should not be prepared to deny the validity
of relatively trifling requirements that did not look solely
to the satisfaction of rudimentary wants that alone we
generally recognize as necessary. Hubbardv. Taunton, 140
Massachusetts, 467, 468.
If the city desired to discourage billboards by a high
tax we know of nothing to hinder, even apart from the
right to prohibit them altogether asserted in the Cusack
Co. Case. Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S.
322, 329. As to, the plaintiff's contracts, so far as appears
they were mad& after the ordinance was passed, but if
made before it they. were subject to legislation not invalid otherwise than for its incidental effect upon them.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548; 558. The same thing may be said, apart from other an-

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
269.

Syllabus.

swers, with regard to the alleged standardizing of the
size of posters. In view of our recent decision we think
further argument unnecessary to show that the ordinance
must be upheld.
Judgment in No. 220 and decree in No. 2 affirmed.

UNION TANK LINE COMPANY v. WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 170.

Argued January 22, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.

A State may tax the movables of a foreign corporation, which are regularly'and habitually em.ployed therein, although devoted to interstate
commerce. P. 282.
While the valuation must .e just, it need not be limited to the mere
worth of the articles taken separately, but may include as well the
intangible value due to the organic relation of the property in the
State to the whole system of which it is part. Id.
To nmect the difficulties of appraisement where the tangibles constitute
part of a going concern.operating in many States, and where absolute
accuracy is generally impossible, the court has sustained methods
producing results approximately correct, for example, the mileage
basis in the case of a telegraph company and the average amount
of property habitually brought inand c, rried out by a car company.
Id. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530;
American Refrigerator Tranmit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70.
But if the plan pursued is arbitrary and the consequent valuation
grossly excessive, it must be condemned because of conflict with the
commerce clause, or the Fourteenth Amendment, or both. Id.
A New Jersey company owning many tank cars, rented by shippers,
was assessed for those running in and out of Georgia, without regard
to and much in excess of their real value, upon a track-mileage basis,
,
i. c., in an amount bearing the sam ratio to the value of all its cars
and other peiona! property as the ratio of the miles of railroad

