OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

2.0 11. S.

keeping credit. Indeed, when the reasoning upon wli(h
the relief below was awarded is considered, and the arguments pressed at bar sustaining that result are veighcd,
they all at last come to the assumption that by some tindisclosed process the Mercantile Bank was entitled to
enforce as against the Harriman the contract for the loan
agreement made with W. B. Slaughter, without the duty
to comply with the obligations of that contract, and therefore became possessed of the power to enforce the contract
against the Harriman despite the fraud and forgery practiced upon the Harriman in the attempt which was made
to probiure the benefits of the loan agreement.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and that of the District Court must be and they
are treverspd, and the case be remanded to the District
Court with instructions, that after setting aside its judgment, it take such further proceydings,,as may be in conformity with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

BUTTE & SUPERIOR COPPER COMPANY, LIMITED, v. CLARK-MONTANA REALTY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 598.

Argued January 10, 13, 1919.-Decided March 3,

919.

li a suit brought in the District Court to determine extralateral rights
.between patented mining claims, the complaint averred that the
construction and application of §§ 2322-2332 of the lRevised Statutes were inVolved, set up the discovery, location and patent of
plaintiffs' claim, and, to meet a defect of the location notice under
the state law, averred a~tual, open, exclusive and uninterrupted
possession and working of the plaintiffs' claim for more than five

IUTT"IE & SUPI.EI~it}Il ('0 . ,.. CLARK-MONTANA ('0.
i2.

13

Syllabus.

years from the date of discovery, the limitation period provided by
§ 2332. Held, that the latter allegations were part of plaintiffs' case,
and involved a construction and application of § 2332, and hence
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was reviewable in
this court by appeal. Pp. 20-23.
In deterrining extralateral rights between adjoining patented mining
claims, a failure, of the earlier location notice to comply with the
state law is immaterial if the junior locator, at the time of locating,
knew that the earlier locator was in possession-of and working his
claim. The purpose of a location notice is but to give warning of
the prior appropriation. P. 26.
The unequivocal possession of a mining claim gives constructive notice
of the possessor's right. thereunder. Id.
As between two patetited mining claims, priority of right to the vein
of the one where it dips beneath, and unites with the vein of,
the other is not determined by the dates of entries and patents but
by priority of discovery and location. P. 27.
In the absence from the record of an adverse suit, there is no presuniption that anything was considered and determined by the Land
l)epartment, in patenting a mining claim, except the question of
the right to the surface. Id.
An application to patent a lode mining claim invites only" such contests as affect the surface; and where no surface conflict involves
the apex, a prior locator of an adjacent unpatented. claim is not
obliged to adverse in order to protect his right to follow his vein
extralaterally on the dip. P. 28.
Findings of fact made by the District Court concerning the apexes,
courses and dips of mineral veins in dispute, and affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, must be accepted by this court unless
clearly wrong. P. 30.
A release and quitclaim of an undivided interest in a designated mining
claim, though with expressed intent to convey all the grantor's
right, title and interest in the property, together with all earth,
rock, ores, etc., found, therein, held, to pass only rights and interests apprtaining to that claim under its location and patent and
not to affect the extralateral rights appertaining to an adjoining
claim owned by the grantor. P. 30. Montana Mining Co. v. St.
Lovis Mining Co., 204 U. S. 204, distinguished.
In a suit to establish extralateral rights and for An accounting for
ores, where the plaintiffs were awarded relief as to their principal
vein, the court also found that a branch or strand of it apexed in
plaintiffs' claim and dipped beyond the side line into defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

249 U. S.

territory, uniting there with the main vein again, but the place
where the apex crossed the line could not be fixed. Held proper,
while decreeing plaintiffs the owners of the strand vein and entitled
to its possession throughout its depth as far as its apex extended
within their claim, to reserve the question of such extent and the
measurement of plaintiffs' rights thereunder for determination iii
future supplemental proceedings in the light of further mining development. P. 32.
248 Fed. Rep. 609, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Wallace, Jr., with whom Mr. T. L. Chad-.
bourne and Mr. K. R. Babbitt were on the briefs, for appellant:
As between those ass'erting prior rights to vein areas
and ore bodies situated such as are those here in controversy, the question of priority of location is one of naked
fact-just as it would have been before the patent entry.
Creede & Cripple Creek Mining Co. v. Uinta Tunnel Mining Co., 196 U. S. 337; Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler
Mining Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 557; Hickey v. Anaconda Mining
Co., 33 Montana, 46. But a patent may not be used to
create a false priority wherewith to destroy preexisting
"rights of others. He who first completes a valid location
gains the first segregation and first mining right. Creede
Case, supra; St. Louis Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S.
649. A locator may not relate to his discovery, as against
intervening rights to the same surface or rights appurtenant to adjoining free surface, location of which was
first completed, unless he completed his own location
within the time provided by law. Creede Case, supra;Cedar
Canyon Mining Co. v, Yarwood, 27 Washington, 271.
As to the time when the marking of the Elm Orlu was
completed, there can be no aider by presumption. There
is no absolute finding of the trial court back of 1876.
There is no affirmative evidence upon which this -court
could find an earlier date. A dominant presumption al-.

BUTTE & SUPEIOR CO.v. CLARK-MONTANA CO.
12.

15

Argument for Appellant.

ways obtains in favor of the owner of the surface against
others seeking to take vein areas or ores therein beneath it.
Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last Chance Mining Co., 171
U. S. 55, 66; Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining
Co., 194 U. S. 235, 239; Mammoth Mining Co. v. Grand
Central Mining Co., 213 U. S. 72. Plaintiffs must prove
a valid location anterior to the Black Rock patent and
location, for they have admitted the latter to be valid.
The presumption could not apply in favor of the plaintiffs on their Elm Orlu claim because: (1) The finding with
respect to discovery and marking replaced both presumption and evidence; (2) the Elm Orlu having affirmatively
alleged the facts in that regard attempted to prove them;
(3) a presumption cannot flow from a record not authorized by law; (4) when the only step proven-the
record-appears on its face to have been taken contrary
to law, it cannot form any. basis fbr a presumption that
either of the other two steps were taken in accordance
with law; (5) the Elm Orlu as an extralateral claimant
can have no aider by presumption to take ores from beneath the Black Rock or Jersey Blue surface. [Counsel
here cited and analyzed Hickey v. Anaconda Mining Co.,
supra; Washoe Copper Co. v. Junila, 43 Montana, 178;
Creede Case, 196 U. S. 337; Calhoun Gold Mining Co. v.
Ajax Gold Mining Co., 182 U. S. 499; Baker v. Butte City
Water Co., 196 U. S. 119; Lawson v. United States Mining
Co., 207 U. S. 1; Hussman v. Durham, 165 U. S. 144, 148;
,-Clason v. Matko, 223 'U. S. 646; El Paso Brick Co. V.
McKnight, 233 U. S. 250.]
The actual notices-of location were void and the Black
Rock gained priority upon the constructively valid location born of its earlier patent. Hickey v. Anaconda Mining
Co., supra; Baker v. Butte City Water Co., supra; Van
Buren v. McKinley, 8 Idaho, 93; 2 Lindley on Mines,
§§ 384, 385; Cloninger v. Finlaison, 230 Fed. Rep. 98;
('lason v. l a ko, supra.

OCTOBER TElM,

1918.

Argument for Appellan.

24) U. S.

Plaintiffs' "holding and working" allegation was wholly
unproven, and if proven would have been immaterial:
(1) Because not made the basis of the application for
patent, such working may not now be relied on to create
for the benefit of the patent an earlier priority, or for
any purpose; (2) the segregation, if the statute provided
therefor, would only be complete at the end of the period
of holding.
Plaintiffs may'not go back to any other pre-patent claim
than the one they used as a basis for their application
for patent. 3 Lindley on Mines, § 783, p. 1920; Jacobs
v. Lorenz, 98 California, 332.
The evidence and findings do not warrant the claim
that the Black Rock locators had actual knowledge of
the facts concerning the Elm Orlu.
The Black Rock locators enjoyed the same right as any
other citizen to locate any ground not theretofore segregated by a prior valid location. There could not be constructive segregation and private ownership of extralateral rights in the Elm Orlu on November 6, 1875, as to
some citizen third persons, and no such rights as to others.
If you could dispense with recording in Montana, equally
could you dispense with marking of boundaries, so that
a mere oral claim publicly asserted in connection with a
discovery would be the equivalent of a complete valid
location. Thus a quarter or possibly a half a century
later, the question of priority of extralateral rights under
patents, involving millions in ore values, might turn on
mere oral assertions of claim and oral notice thereof. The
act of Congress does not contemplate any such possibility.
If knowledge by a third party of some step
in an incomplete or invalid location by another were sufficient to
protect the latter, forever, without compliance with the
law, the United States statute (Rev. Stats., § 2324) would
be set at nught. 'That statute positively requires mark-

*BUTTE & SUPERIOR CO.
12.

.

CLARK MIONTANA Co.

17

Argumnent for Appellant.

ing of the boundaries. It likewise specifies some matters
that recorded notices must contain. Notice or knowledge
cannot be said to dispense with these requirements, even
as against third persons. Yosemite Mining Co. v. Emerson, 208 U. S. 25, is not at all in point. There the relocation was of the identical surface, so that there never
could be two valid locations.
When the Black Rock owners included in, their application for patent',surface in couffict with the Elm Orlu,
they set in motion a statutory proceeding under §,2336,
Rev. Stats., that must necessaiily result in a determination of right as between those two claims. Had the Elm
Orlu people adversed, they must have claimed this conflict as a part of the Elm Orlu, and the resultant suit
would necessarily have depended on and determined priority of location, at least in the absence of special dealings
between the parties.
It is submitted that there can be but one single and
uniform priority in one location as 'against another. If
this be so, did not the surrender of the Elm Orlu with
respect to the fraction necessarily operate to establish
priority for all time for the Black Rock as a single entire
claim against the Elm Orlu? Bunker Hill Mining Co. v.
Empire State-Idaho Mining Co., 109, Fed. Rep. 538;
Empire State-Idaho Mining Co. v. Bunker Hill Mining
Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 417; Round Mt. M. Co. v. Round Mt.
S. M. Co., 36 Nevada, 543.
Mr. W. H. Dickson, with whom Mr. J. Bruce Kremer,
Mr. A. C. Ellis, Jr., and Mr. William Scallon were on
the briefs, for appellant:
The location certificate of the Elm Orlu claim was defective, not being verified as required by Montana Laws,
1873, ex. sess., p. 83. Under the Montana decisions this
defe6t made the location invalid. Butte Northern.Copper
Co.;N. Radmrilolich. 39 Montana, 157; Ferris v. McNally,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Apptant.

249-U. S.

45 Montana, 20; and cases cited in.n
pote, post, p. 25.
Compliance with the state regulation, not conflicting
with any federal regulation, was essential, Baker v. Butte
City Water Co., 28 Montana, 222; s. c., 196 U. S. 119;
Belk v. Meagher, 3 Montana, 65; s. c., 104 U. S. 279, 2S4;
Garfield Mining Co. v. Hammer, 6 Montana, 53; Clason
v. Matko, 223 U. S. 646; 1 Lindley on Mines, § 249,
pp. 544-5; 2 id., § 329; and the interpretation of the
regulation by the state court should be accepted by the
federal courts. Clzson v. Matko, supra.
To authorize the courts to give effect to a mining patent
as of a date anterior to the final entry, it must be made
to appear that prior to that date there was a valid location upon which the patent issued; and in this connection
it must be borne in mind that the owners of the Black
Rock claim, having obtained their patent on an earlier
application, and there being no surface conflict, were not
called upon and had no standing to adverse the Elm Orlu
application. Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining
Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 557, 565, 566; Hickey v. Anaconda
Mining Co., 33 Montana, 46; Uinta Tunnel Mining Co.
v. Creede & Cripple Creek Mining Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 164;
s. c., 196 U. S. 337, 353, 354. The question whether or
not the patent related back to the date of the location
was not involved in Calhoun Gold Mining Co. v. Ajax
Gold Mining Co,, 182 U. S. 499. Lawson v. United Slates
Mining Co., 207 U. S. 1, and El Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight, 233 U. S. 250, distinguished. Sections 2292 and
2294, Montana Rev. Code, 1907, properly construed, do
not validate the Elm Orlu location and could not so operate without impairing rights vested under the Black
Rock claim.
Presumptively the owners of the Black Rock claim
are the owners of all the veins and ore bodies found within
the exterior limits of the claim extended downward vertically. Leadtille Mining Co. v. Fitzgerald, 15 Fed. Cas.

BUTTE & SUPERIOR CO. v. CLAIRK-MONTANA CO. 19
12.

Argument for Appellant.

No. 8158. That this presumption can only be overcome
by clear and satisfactory evidence is well settled. Appellant denies that the apex or any portion of the apex of
the "Pyle strand" is found anywhere within the Elm
Orlu. Where its apex is found is altogether conjectural.
For aught that appears from the evidence, it may have
its apex in the Black Rock and, indeed, this is probably
the case. Heinze v. Boston & M. Mining Co., 30 Montana, 487; Consolidated Wyoming Gold Mining to. v.
Champion Mining Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 540, 550. Indeed,
in the case at bar, the District Court reached the conclusion that the evidence failed to support the plaintiffs'
contention in this regard. Respecting that vein, therefore, a definite and conclusive decree in favor of the defendant should have been entered. It is well settled that
a supplemental bill should not be allowed, or a rehearing
granted, after final decree, upon new evidence which the
plaintiff (as in this instance) with reasonable diligence
could have discovered before beginning the suit. Jenkins
v. Eldredge, 3 Story, 507, 509, 510; Quaint v. McMullen,
103 California, 381; and other cases. See also Detroit v.
Detroit Street Ry. Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 569, 572; Callaghan
v. Hicks, 90 Fed. Rep. 539-542, 543; Electrical Accumulator Co. v. Brush Electric Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 602-604.
The deed of the plain-tiff Realty Company granted the
fractional interest in "all earth, rock and ores" found
within the exterior limits of the Black Rock claim extended downward vertically. This is its plain language,
and gauging the intent by the situation of the parties
but one conclusion can be drawn from the testimony,
riz, that the acquisition of the Rainbow vein, within the
Black Rock claim, was the chief incentive for paying a
large price for the conveyance, and the grantee must have
understood that this was being conveyed, for it was the
only thing of value within the latter claim, so far as the
parties then knew.

OC'OBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. 8

Mr. John P. Gray, with whom Mr. W. A. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. John L. Templeman were on the briefs, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
A contest between mining claims as to the right to the
ores that may be not only inside the surface lines of the
claims but outside their vertical side lines-dip or extralateral rights. •It was commenced in the United States
District Court for the District of Montana by a bill filed
therein by the appellees Clark-Montana Realty Company
.and Elm Orlu Mining Company against appellant Butte
& Superior Copper -Company, Limited, under a statute of
Montana authorizing an action to be brought by any person against another who claims an estate or interest in real
property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim.
The appellees (plaintiffs in the suit) obtained a decree
in the District Court quieting'their title and decreeing an
accounting. 233 Fed. Rep. 5.7. The decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 248 Fed. Rep. 609. To
review the latter action this appeal is prosecuted.
We are confronted with a motion to dismiss on the
ground that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
final, the jurisdiction of the District Court having been, in
legal effect, rested, it is asserted, upon diversity of citizenship. To judge of the motion requires' a consideration of
appellees' statement of their grounds of suit. An outline
cf them only is necessary.
At the outset we may say there is a diversity of citizenship, the parties being respectively corporations of Washington and Arizona, and it was so averred.
The predecessois of appellees (so run the allegations)
on April 18, 1575,' discovered a vein or lode -of mineral-

BUTTE & SUPERIOR CO. v. CLARK-MONTANA CO.
12.

21

Opinion of the Court.

bearing rock in the ground described as the Elm Orlu.
Discovery was followed by location of the claim and other
acts of its appropriation prescribed by the mining laws,
proof of which was duly made; and such steps were taken
that on December 30, 1882, application for patent was
made and patent issued for the claim January 31, 1884.
The locators and their successors in interest held, worked,
possessed and actually occupied the claim continuously
from the date of discovery for more than five years thereafter and during all that time were in the open, notorious,
exclusive and uninterrupted possession of it.
The Clark-Montana Realty Company became the owner
of the claim and entitled to its possession and of all veins,
lodes or ledges having their tops or apices therein throughout their entire depth between the end lines of said claim
extended northerly in their own direction. That company
leased the claim to appellee Elm Orlu Mining Company,
which is occupying it by virtue of the lease.
The appellant is the owner of the Black Rock, Jersey
Blue, Admiral Dewey and Silver Lode Mining Claims
which adjoin the Elm Orlu claim on its north side. Their
locations progressed to patent.
In the Elm Orlu claim there is a vein or lode known as
the Rainbow Lode, which crosses the west end line of the
Elm Orlu claim and proceeds in an easterly direction
through it. It was upon this lode that the discovery of the
claim was made. Its downward course through the side
line of the claim drawn vertically is northerly and it extends downward and passes below the surface of appellant's
claims.
Appellant claims an estate or interest adverse to appellees'-in the Rainbow Lode, the exact nature of which claim
is unknown to appellees, but it is false and groundless.
The value of the Elm Orlu claim is given, and it is
averred that appellant, has by means of secret underground works in its possession wilfully penetrated the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Rainbow Lode and has extracted and is extracting large
amounts of ore therefrom, the exact amount being unknown, but exceeding in value the sum of $50,000.
It is prayed that appellant declare its title and, when
declared, that it be adjudged without merit; that appellees' title be established and appellant enjoined from
further assertion of rights adverse to appellees, and for
an accounting.
There is an averment, however, that requires notice.
It is as follows:
"That the jurisdiction of the United States District
Court for the District of Montana over this suit is invoked
and depends upon two grounds, to-wit:
"1. Upon the ground that the construction and application of Sections 2322, 2324, 2325, and 2332 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States are involved, and
the amount in controversy exceeds in value the sum of
Three Thousand ($3,000.00) Dollars, exclusive of interest
and costs, all of which will appear from the facts hereinafter set forth.
'"2.

The avexment is explicit and, we may assume, had a
purpose; but appellees do not wish to be taken at their
word. The confidence they thought and expressed when
invoking the powers of the court in the first instanceand providing, we may assume, for review in case of an
adverse decision--they now recant and urge that it
should not be used to question or disturb their -,icess
or become an avenue of relief to their antagonist. This
is not unusual and counsel has cited prior examples and
the action of the court therein.
The principle of decision which the court then announced is familiar. It is that the ground of jurisdiction
in the District Court and ultimately in this court on
appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals is the statement
of the suing party of his cause of suit. And there must

BUTTE & SUPERIOR CO. v.CLARK-MONTANA CO.
12.

23

Opinion of the Court.

be substance in it, not mere verbal assertion or the anticipation of defenses. Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74;
Hull v. Burr, id. 712, 720.

Has appellees' statement these defects? As we have
seen, there is a confident assertion that the construction
and application of the designated sections of the Revised
Statutes are involved, and, turning to them, we find that
they are the foundation of the rights to mining claims
and express the conditions of their acquisition and extent,
and, it would seem, are often the basis of controversies
as to them and the solution of the controversies. And
realizing this, we may suppose, appellees were at pains
to set out the conditions and steps they observed, and
lest there might be omission, and in remedy of it if there
should be, they availed themselves by appropriate allegations of § 2332, Rev. Stats.; that is, they alleged that
they were in the actual, open, exclusive and uninterrupted
possession of the Elm Orlu, working the same for more
than five years, (the period of limitation under §2332)
continuously from the date of discovery. And counsel
admitted upon a question from the bench at the oral
argument, that the allegation had jurisdictional purpose
and that resort was had to the federal court that appellees
might avail themsel'es of the provisions of § 2332 and
of Clipper Mining Co. v. Eli Mining Co., 194 U. S. 220,

226, the Supreme Court of Montana having decidedI
that a notice of location which failed to comply, as appellees' did, with a statute of Montana was defective.
The allegation, therefore, was part of appellees' casefortified the other allegations as grounds of suit and
recovery-and made the suit one involving the construction and application of that section. The motion to
dismiss is, therefore, denied.
On the merits the case is not of novelty. It is the usual
'Hickey v. Anaconda Mining Co., 33 Mont. 46.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

one of priority of rights in a mineral-bearing vein. The
averments of appellees we have given. They are met by
appellant by denials, counter averments of location and
rights, not only by grounds of defense but of affirmative
relief; prayers for recompense for trespasses upon its
rights and that its title be quieted against the assertion
of appellees.
In summary description of the controversies in the
case we may say they center in the Rainbow Lode, so-.
called-in regard to which the parties are in absolute
antagonism both in averment and contention--and
incidentally in other lodes.
Upon the issues thus joined the District Court made
certain findings which were affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. We take them up in their order as we shall
thereby be able to separate the questions of law from
the questions of fact.
(1) The court found that the Elm Orlu was located
before the Black Rock. Of this finding there can be no
doubt if the procedure of the law was observed in the
location of the Elm Orlu. The steps in that procedure
and their order are well established. The first of them
is the discovery of mineral-bearing rock within the claim,
and it must precede location. The subsequent stepsmarking the boundaries, posting notice, recording-are
the declaration of title; the patent is the final evidence
of it. Such steps being observed, the right is acquired
under the Revised Statutes to the vein on its course and
dip to the extent that its top or apex is within the surface
boundaries of the claim or within vertical planes drawn
downward through them. Lawson v. United States Mining Co., 207 U. S.1; Stewart Mining Co. v. Ontario Mining
350.
Co., 237 U. S.
It is, however, provided by § 2322, Rev. Stats., that
there must be not only compliance with the laws of the
United States, but with "State, territorial and local

BUTTE & SUPERIOR Co. v,.CLARK-MONTANA CO. 25
12.

Opinion of the Court.

regulations" and appellant asserts that the location of
appellees' predecessors did not comply with the territorial
statute of Montana and that, therefore, though the
location preceded that of appellant, it was destitute of
legal sufficiency. And it is contended that the Supreme
Court of Montana has decided in several cases I that the
requirements of the state statute are imperative and
that one of these cases (Baker v. Butte City Water Co.)
was affirmed by this court. 196 U. S. 119.
It is further contended that "from the date when final
entry of the Black Rock was made, certainly from the
date when patent therefor issued, the patentee's title not
only to the surface of the claim, but to every vein or lode
the top or apex of which was found within the boundaries
thereof, became unassailable."
The following is the relevant chronology: The location
of the Elm 'Orlu, following discovery of mineral, was
made April 18, 1875, the declaratory statement thereof
recorded on the 22nd of that month; the location of the
Black Rock was made November 6, 1875, the declaratory
statement recorded the 13th of the same month. The
entry for patent of the Black Rock was made November 24, 1880, and patent issued Februrary 15, 1882; the
Elm Orlu made final entry December 30, 1882, and patent
31, 1884.
issued
. SuchJanuary
being the
order of procedure of the parties, which
acquired the title? Or, to express the issue in conformity
to the contentions of appellant, was there defect in the
location of appellees by reason of the Montana statute
and did the prior issue of patent to appellant give impregnability to its title and right to the veins in controversy?
The District Court, and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming it, decided both issues against appellant on the
'McBurncy v. Berry, 5 Mont. 300; O'Donnell.v. Glenn, 8 Mont. 248;

MeCowan v. Maclay, 16 Mont. 234; Hickey v. Anaconda Mining Co.,
33 Mont. 46; Baker v. Butte City Water Co., 28 Mont. 222.

OCTOBrR TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

grounds: (1) That the Montana cases did not furnish the
rule of decision for the federal courts, the better reasoning
being (for which cases were cited) that as the Montana
statute did notimpose a forfeiture hence none resulted
from defects in the declaratory statement of the Elm Orlu.
(2) That the Elm Orlu people were in possession of their
claim, working the same-of which the Black Rock people
had knowledge-and that hence the latter could not avail
themselves of the defects in the location of the Elm Orlu.
.-Yosemite Mining Co. v. Emerson, 208 U. S. 25, was adduced.
In the latter ground we concur, and we need not express
opinion of the other although it" has impressive strength
and was conceded to have in Yosemite Mining Co. v.
Emerson. Indeed, there was a revulsion in the State
.against the ruling of the cases and a law was enacted
malking :the issue of a patent for a mining claim conclusive
evidence of compliance with the requirements of the laws
*of the State and making valid all locations under them
theretofore made "that in any respect have failed to
conform to the requirements of such laws," "except as
against one who has located the same ground . .
in
-good faith and .without notice."
Yosemite Mining Co. v. Emerson was concerned with a
regulation of the State of California which prescribed the
manner of the location of a claim. The regulation had
not been conformed to and the validity of the location
was attacked on that ground by a subsequent locator who
had had. notice of the claim, he contending that there was
forfeiture of it. The contention was rejected and we said,
that to yield to it would workgreat injustice and subvert
the very purpose for which the posting of notices was
required, which was, we further said, "to make known
the purpose of the discoverer to claim title to the" claim
"to the extent described and to warn others Of the prior
appropriation." The comment is obviously applicable to
the asserted defects in the declaratory statement of

BUTTE & SUPERIOR CO. v. CLARK-MONTANA Co.
12.

27

Opinion of the Court.

appellees. It, like the California requirement, had no
other purpose than "to warn others of the prior appropriation" of the claim, and such is the principle of constructive notice. It-constructive notice--is the law's
substitute for actual notice, and to say that it and actual
notice are equivalents 'would seem to carry the selfevidence of an axiom. Besides, in this case there was
unequivocal possession of the Elm Orlu and it is elementary that such possession is notice to all the world of the
possessor's rights thereunder. Simmons Creek Coal Co. v.
Doran, 142 U. S. 417.
The other contention of appellant is, as we have said,
that the title not only to the surface of its claim but to
every vein whose top or apex was found -vithin it became
impregnable by the issue of patent to it. We need not
follow the details of counsel's argument to sustain the
contention-its reliance is on the dates on which entries
for the patents were made, the Black Rock entry preceding
that of the Elm Orlu. It is, however, admitted that by
the issue of the patent to the Elm Orlu "it was thereby
conclusively adjudicated or determined that at the time
of final entry the applicanta wfre entitled to a patent to
that claim." But the admission is combined with the
declaration that "to authorize the court' to give effect to
a mining patent as of a date anterior to the final entry,
it must be made to appear that prior to that date there was
a valid location [italics counsel's] upon which the patent
issued." And to establish that appellees' was not a valid
location appellant relies upon the asserted defect in the
declaratory statement. With that defect we have dealt
and have decided that it had not the consequences ascribed
to it. We may say, however, that priority of right is not
determined by dates of entries or patents of the respective
claims, but by priority of discovery and location, which
may be shown by testimony other than the entries and
patents. In the absence from the record of an adverse

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249) U. S.

suit there is no presumption that anything was considered or determined except the question of the right
to the surface. Lawson v. United States Mining Co.,
-supra.
The relevancy of that case is resisted. Appellant, urges
that by the application of th6 Black Rock for patent
appellees were "confronted with the necessity of either
adversing or suffering the consequences of a failure to do
so," and the consequence is said to be that the Elm Orlu
was made subordinate in time and right to the Black Rock.
We can not assent. The application of the Black Rock
for patent did not show a surface conflict and the doctrine
of the Lawson Case is that on an application for a patent
only surface rights are determined, and Lindley is quoted
for the proposition that "'an application for patent invites only such contests as affect the surface area -.
axe not the
Prospective underground conflicts ....
subject of adverse claims."'
It is true, as we have seen, there was some overlapping
of the ines of the claims. If, however, a conflict was
thus indicated the Black Rock secured the advantage.
The ground within the overlapping lines was included
within the Black Rock patent and expressly excepted from
the application of the Elm Orlu for its patent. And no
part of the decree was determined by -it.
(2) The District Court found from the testimony that
the Elm Orlu was of prior location and right and in this
was confirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
inevitable consequence is that appellees have title to the
veins or lodes whose tops or apices are within the Elm Orlu.
This consequence appellant admits at the very beginning
of its argument, and says that one of the vital questions
in the case is the priority of the claims and that if the Elm
Orlu had priority over the Black Rock the appellees
would be entitled to all'the Rainbow Lode between the
planes designated. by the court and would be also entitled

m;yr. & SUPERI1II CO. r. CLARK-MON'rANA CO. 29
*,
12.

Opinion of the C Jrt.

"to all ores within the intersection spaces of that vein
with the Jersey Blue vein and the Creden vein."
We state the admission not in estoppel of appellant but
only in concentration of attention upon the question for
decision. In its solution there are in dispute many elements of importance. Among these necessarily is the
question: In which of the claims do the veins apex, course
and dip? In the question there is complexity and grounds
for diversity of judgment, and the District Court felt and
expressed them after hearing and estimating the testimony and the admission of the parties.
The court (Judge Bourquin) said that the chief contesting claims, the Elm Orlu and the Black Rock, "have a.
common side line for 850 feet of the Elm Orlu east end
and of the Blackrock west end." And further said:
S"If-is now admitted that the Rainbow vein at the apex
.crosses the Elm Orlu west end line,, courses easterly,
crosses the common side line and branches in the Blackrock, one strand crossing the Blackrock north side line
and one coursing easterly a disputed distance; that the
Pyle strand of the Rainbow at some depth in the Elm
Orlu diverges from the south side of the said vein and
coursing easterly unites with the Rainbow at the Blackrock 1,100 level; that the Jersey Blue vein at the apex
crosses the Blackrock west end line and courses easterly
a disputed distance, it and the Rainbow converging on.
strike and dip to union or crossing; that the Creden vein
at some depth in the Elm Orlu near the Blackrock west

end di-, erges from the north side of the Rainbow, courses
northwesterly under both claims and unites with or is cut

off by the Jersey Blue. Very large ore-bodies are in the
Rainbow under both claims, at places bisected on strike
by .the common side line, and both parties have mined
them under both claims. From various names of the
veins those herein are chosen to avoid confusion."

And

to all other elements of decision, presented in a trial

30

OCTOBER 'T'ERM, 1918.
249 U. S.

Opinion of the ('ourt.

which occupied 16 days, the court gave ,a painstaking
consideration and in estimate of them found the issues in
favor of appellees, and carefully adjudged the rights of
the contestants according to the lines of their respective
properties and the relation of the mineral veins to them.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the findings,
saying, by Circuit Judge Gilbert: "The appellant does not
assert that the findings of fact are unsupported by competent evidence, but contends that they are contrary to
the weight of the evidence. The trial court made its findings after an evidently careful and painstaking investigation of the testimony and the exhibits, and after a personal
inspection of the mining properties. We have examined
the record sufficiently to see that the findings are all supported by the credible testimony of reputable witnesses.
Upon settled principles which this court has always recognized, findings so made upon conflicting tcstimony are
conclusive upon this appeal." And we said in Lawson v.
United States Mining Co., supra, of the conclusion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in such case-and the concession
is as great as appellant is entitled to-"That if the testimony does not show that it [the conclusion of the court]
is correct, it fails to show that it is wrong, and under those
circumstances we are not justified in distdrbing that conclusion. It iAour duty to accept a finding of fact, unless
clearly and manifestly wrong." The findings accepted,
the conclusions of law must be pronounced to be of necessary sequence.
One of the defenses of appellant is that on October 29,
1906, the Clark-Montana Realty Company, then being the
owner of an undivided one-fourth interest in the Black
Rock claim, executed and delivered to the predecessors in
interest of appellant a deed of release and quit-claim of all
its "right, -title, interest, claim and demand

.

.

.

in

and to thet certain portion, ,laim and mining right, title
and property on those certain ledges, veins, lodes or de-

v. CLARK-MONTANA CO. 31
BiVTE & 8UPEII. ('MC.
12.

Opinion of the Court.

posits of quartz and other rock in place, containing precious
. .
" And
metals of gold, silver and other metals
it was stated that it was" the intention of the party of the
first pat to convey to the party of the second part all of
its right, title and interest in and to the above described
property" (referring to the claim, which was described).
"Together with all the dips, spurs and adgles, and also all
the metals, ores, gold, silver and metal bearing quartz,
"
rock and earth therein,
The deed is urged as an estoppel and appellant insists
that it "operates to grant the fractional interest in 'all
earth, rock and ores' found within the exterior limits of the
Black Rock claim extended downward vertically," citing
therefor Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining Co., 204
U. S. 204; Bogart v. Amanda ConsolidatedGold Mining Co.,
32 Colorado, 32.
The cited cases are distinguishable from that at bar.
In Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining Co., the land
was conveyed "together with all the mineral therein contained," and the words were distinguished from those conveying extralateral rights and considered as a subject of
the grant. In the other case the conveyance was of land
in conflict between two claims which were in litigation, and
in execution of the intention of the parties the deed was
interpreted to convey "not merely the surface ground in
conflict, as contradistinguished from the mineral beneath,
but with this surface ground all underlying minerals" except one vein which had been excluded.
In the case at bar the conveyance was of an undivided
one-fourth interest in and to the "mining claim known as
the 'Black Rock' quartz lode mining claim." It passed no
rights or interest that did not belong to that claim or would
not appertain to it. Or, to put it another way, the deed
passed the rights and interests that were derived from the
United States by the location of that claim and conveyed
by the patent to the locators., It was not intended to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

vey any of the rights of the Elm Orlu and denude it of the
extralateral rights that the law conferred upon-it. In other
words, the contention of appellant would make the deed a
conveyance of the Elm Orlu as well as of the Black Rock.
We do not stop to specialize either the contests of or the
judgments on particular veins. Their relative locations
and the rights in them are disposed of by what we have
said. But an earnest and special contest is made on the
finding of the court in regard to a vein designated as the
Pyle strand. The District Court said, as we have seen,
"that the Pyle strand of the Rainbow at some depth in the
Elm Orlu diverges from the south side of the said vein and
coursing easterly unites with the Rainbow at the Blackrock
1,100 level." I And the court decreed the appellees to be
the owners of and entitled to the possession of it throughout its entire depth as far as its apex was within the Elm
Orlu, but expressly reserved the question of the point
where the apex passes out of the Elm Orlu. In other words,
in the language of the Circuit Court of Appeals, "the court
reft to future development the question of how far the Pyle
apex continued in the appellees' location, and to what extent beneath the Black Rock it united with the Rainbow
in such position as to be corltrolled by the apex in the Elm
Orlu." This action of the District Court is attacked by
appellant. It admits, however, that the Pyle strand in its
downward course unites with the Rainbow at or about a
pointwhich would be intersected by a vertical plane passed
through the easterly, end line of the Elm Orlu extended
northerly in its own direction, but denies that the apex or
any portion of the apex is within the Elm Orlu and asserts
that where its apex is found is altogether conjectural and
that "for aught that appears from the evidence, it may
tThe formal finding of the District Court is as follows:

;"That the Pyle strand of the Rainbow vein diverges from the south
side of the latter vein in the Elm Orlu claim, and there and for some
indefinite distance easterly has its apex in the Elm Orlu claim."

BUTTE & SUPERIOIR CO. v.CLARK-MONTANA 0.
12.

33

Opinion of the Court.

have its apex in the Black Rock and, indeed, this is probably the case." And it is urged that a situation is presented not of the weight of evidence, but of the absence
of evidence, or, to quote counsel, the decision is 'one
which finds no support whatever in the testimony." But
manifestly these are but assertions-attacks on the estimate of the testimony made by the District Court and
Circuit Court of Appeals and the conclusion it justifies.
It is further said that issue was made upon the title to
the Pyle strand and that it was the duty of the court to
definitely pass upon it and to decide for appellant, but that
"instead of entering such a decree, the court so framed,
and intentionally so framed, its decree that it would not
be a bar to a new suit which appellees might thereafter
bring against this appellant to quiet title to all of the vein
below the plane of union between it and the Pyle strand,
if by further development they discovered additional evidence in support of their contention that the Pyle strand
did apex in the Elm Orlu at the point of alleged forking and
at its apex continued thence easterly to and across the east
end line of the Elm Orlu."
It is true the apex of the Pyle strand was found to be
within the Elm Orlu, but all else as to the vein was reserved and, in the circumstances, properly reserved. There
was simply retention of the case for supplementary proceedings, as the Circuit Court of Appeals observed, to
carry out the decree and make it effective under altered circumstances. Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1, 47; Union
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.,
163 U. S. 564, 603.
Decree affivned.

