WISE v. UNITE)
354.

STAT'-.

Argument for Appellant.

or the preparation for war, falls within the provisions,
19 Op. Atty. Gen. 572.
The judgment of the Court of Claims granting full
compensation for carriage of persons within the six classes
considered is
Agirmed.

WISE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY

OF STAN

NARD, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 214. Argued March 11, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.
In a contract for the construction of two government laboratory
buildings, it was provided that, in case the completion of the work
should be delayed beyondi a period allowed, the United States, in
view of the difficulty of estimating the resulting damages with
exactness, and for the cost of extra inspection and rents, salaries
and other expenses that would be entailed, might deduct $200 for
each day of delay, until the work should be completed, not as a
penalty, but as liquidated damages, computed, estimated and
agreed upon. There was such delay, as to both buildings, that the
amount, thus computed, exceeded $20,000. Held, that the fact that
the amount specified was to be the same whether both buildings
were delayed or only one was not a sufficient reason for considering
it a penalty, nor was there other ground for not giving effect to the
agreement as a genuine pre-estimate of loss. P. 364. Sun Printing
& Publishing Association v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642.
Whether a party should be relieved from a plain stipulation for liquidated damages upon the ground that a penalty was really intended,
will depend upon the facts of the case and not upon a conjectural
situation that might have arisen under the contract. Id.
52 Ct. Clms. 400, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William B. King, with whom Mr. George A. King
and Mr. William E. Harvey were on the brief, for appellant:

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

249 U. S.

Whether a contract provides for a penalty or liquidal d
damages is to be decided by considering the essential
nature of the deduction provided for and not by the
nane given to it by the parties. Sun PrintingAssociation
v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642; United Stales v. Bethlehem Steel
Co., 205 U. S. 105; District of Columbia v. Harlan &
Hollingsworth,30 App. D. C. 270, 279; McCall v. Deuchler,
174 Fed. Rep. 133, 134; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co. v. Dockery, 195 Fed. Rep. 221.
Liquidation of damages necessarily implies a genuine
purpose to make a pre-estimate of damages in the light
of all conditions shown upon the face of the contract.
United States v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
151 Fed. Rep. 534, 536; Clydebank Engineering Co. v.
Doni Jose Rarmos, [1905] L. R. App. Cas. 6; Mt. Airy
Milling Co. v. Runkles, 118 Maryland, 371, 377.
There is no liquidation of damages here because the
contract purports to liquidate damages at the same sum
for two necessarily different conditions of damage. Raymonld v. [idelbrock, 15 N. Dak. 231, 236; Curry v. Larer,
7 Pa. St. 470; Bignall v. Gould, 119 U. S. 495; In re Newman, L. R. 4 Ch. D. 724, 731; Kemble v. Farren, 6 Bing.
141; Astley v. Weldon, 2 Bos. & Pull. 346, 353; Price v.
Green, 16 M. & W. 346; Willson v. Love, [1896] L. R. 1
Q. 13. 626; Union Pacic R. R. Co. v. Mitchell-Crittenden
Tie Co., 190 Fed. Rep. 544; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co. v. Dockery, supra, 224; O'Brien v. Illinois
Surety Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 436, 438; Northwestern Terra
Cotta Co. v. Caldwell, 234 Fed. Rep. 491; Watt's Executors
v.Sheppard, 2 Alabama, 425, 445; Mt. Airy Milling Co.
v. Runkles, supra; Palestine Ice Co. v. Connally, 148
S. W. Rep. 1109.
It is no answer to say that in this case the contractor
defaulted on both buildings and now can not complain
I)cause he is obliged to pay the liquidated damages
lgrreed upon for such default. The contractor might have

WISE o. UNITE)
361.

S'I'ATF.

Opinion of the Cnurt.

defaulted upon only one building and the same liquidated
damages would have been claimed because of the failure
in respect to only one of the divisible halves of the contract. 'A contract must be interpreted by what. it means,
when made, and by the possibilities of the future, not by
the particular state of facts which actually results. The
"nature of the writings" (quoting the term used in 183
U. S. 645) is the guide for the interpretaiion of a contract,
not its outcome. Van Buren v. Digges, 11 How. 461, 477;
Steer v. Brown, 106 Ill. App. 361, 364.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Leonard Zeisler was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTicE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In December, 1904, Stannard, represented in this case
by his Trustee in Bankruptcy, contracted with the
United States to erect two laboratory buildings for the
Department of Agriculture, in the city of Washington,
D. C., for $1,171,000. The buildings were both to be
completed in thirty months and for a delay of 101 days
beyond the contract period the Government deducted
from the contract price $200 a day, the amount stipulated
in the contract as liquidated damages, a total of $20,200,
and the claim made in this court is for the recovery of
that amount.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition and the
case is here on appeal.
The contract was in writing and the specifications,
which the contractor had before him when bidding, were
made a part of it. These specifications contain the following:"1i.Each bidder must submit his proposal with the
distinct understanding that, in case of its acceptance,
time for the completion of the work shall be considered as

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

.249 U. S.

of the essence of the contract, and that for the cost of all
extra inspection and for all amounts paid for rents, salaries, and other expenses entailed upon .the United States
by delay in completing the contract, the United States
shall be entitled to the fixed sum of $200, as liquidated
damages, computed, estimated, and agreed upon, for
each and every day's delay not caused by the United
States."
The provision of the contract upon the subject is:
"3. To complete the said work in all its parts within
thirty months from the date of the receipt of the notice
referred to in subdivision 2 hereof. Time is to be considered as of the essence of the contract, and in case the
completion of said work shall be delayed beyond said
period, the party of the second part may, in view of the
difficulty of esthiinaiing with exactness the damages which
will result, deduct as liquidated damages, and not as a
penalty, the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each and every day during the continuance of such delay
and until such work shall be completed, and such deductions may be made from time to time, from any payment
due hereunder. "
There is no dispute as to the extent of the delay and
the bole contention of the appellant isthat, because a
single sum in damages is stipulated for, without regard
to whether the completion of one or both buildings should
be delayed, and because the Aamage to the Government
would probably be less in amount if one were completed
on time and the other not, than if the conpletion of both
were delayed, the provision of the contract with respect
to liquidated damages cannot be considered the result
of a genuine pre-estimate of the loss which would be
caused by the delay but must be regarded as a penalty
which requires proof of damage in any amount to be
deducted.
If it were not for the earnestness with which this claim

WISE r,. UNITED STATVES.
;;G1.

Opinion of the Court..

is presented we should content ourselves with the observation that as there was delay in the completion of both
buildings, the case falls literally within the terms of the
contract of the parties and that a court will refuse to
imagine a different state of facts than that before it for
the purpose of obtaining a basis for modifying a written
agreement, which evidently was entered into with great
deliberation.
The subject of the interpretation of provisions for
liquidated damages in contracts, as condradistinguished
from such as provide for penalties, was elaborately and
comprehensively considered by this court in Sun Printing
& Publishing Association v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642, applied
in United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S. 105, and
the result of the modem decisions was determined to be
that in such cases courts will endeavor, by a construction
of the agreement which the parties have made, to ascertain what their intention was when they inserted such a
stipulation for payment, of a designated sum or upon a
designated basis, for a breach of a. covenant, of their
contract, precisely as they seek for the intention of the
parties in other respects. When that intention is clearly
ascertainable from the writing, effect will be given to the
provision, as freely as to any other, where the damages
are uncertain in nature or amount or are difficult of
ascertainment or where the amount stipulated for is not
so extravagant, or disproportionate to the amount of
property loss, as to show that compensation was not the
object aimed at or as to imply fraud, mistake, circumvention or oppression. There is no sound reason why
persons competent and free to contract may not agree
upon this subject as fully as upon any other, or why their
agreement, when fairly and understandingly entered into
with a view to just compensation for the anticipated
loss, should not be enforced.
There are, no doubt, decided cases which tend to support

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
O)piniio
1

of the Court.

249 U. S.

the contention advanced by appellant, but these decisions were, for the ino.t part, rendered at a time when
courts were disposed to look upon such provisions in
contracts with disfavor and to construe them strictly,
if not astutely, in order that damages, even though
termed liquidated, might be treated as penalties, so that
only such loss as could be definitely proved could be recovered. The later rule, however, is to look with candor,
if not with favor, upon such provisions in contracts :when
deliberately entered into- between parties who have
equality of opportunity for understanding and insisting
upon their rights, as promoting prompt performance of
contracts and because adjusting in advance, and amicably,
iratters the settlement Of which through .courts would
often involve difficulty, uncertainty, delay and expense.
The result of the application of the doctrine thus stated
to the case before us cannot be doubtful. The character
of the contract and the amount involved assures experience and large capacity in the contractor and the parties
specifically state that the amount agreed upon as liquidated damages had been" comipdted, estimated and agreed
upon" between them. It is obvious that the extent of
the loss which would result to the Government from
delay in performance must be uncertain and difficult to
determine and it is clear that the amount stipulated for
is not excessive, having regard, to the amount of money
which the Govermnent .would have invested in the buildigs'at the time when such delay would occur, to the
expense of securing or continuing in other buildings
during such delay, and -to the confusion which must
necessarily result in the important and extensive laboratory operations of the Department of Agriculture.
The parties to the contract, with full understanding
of the results of delay and before differences or interested
views had arisen between them, were much more corn-

ARANT v. LANE.
Syllabus.

361.

petent to justly determine what the unouint of damage
would be, an amount necessarily largely conjectural and
resting in estimate, than a court or jury would be, directed to a conclusion, as either must be, after the event,
by views and testimony derived from witnesses who
would be unusual to a degree if their conclusions were
not, in a measure, colored and partisan.
There is nothing in the contract or in the record to
indicate that the parties did not take into consideration,
when estimating the amount of damage which would be
caused by delay, the prospect of one building being delayed
and the other not, and the amount of the damages stipulated, 'havingiregard to the circumstances of the case,
may well have been adopted with reference to the probability of such a result.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. ARANT v. LANE,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COL:UMBIA.
No. 441.

Argued March 6, 7, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.

Under the Code of the District of Columbia, as on general principle,
the allowance of the writ of mandamus is a matter of sound judicial
discretion, and applications therefor are limited as to time by the
equitable doctrine of laches and are not within the general statutes
of limitations. P. 371.
After his removal from office and forcible ejection from a government
office building, relator waited 20 months before applying for mandamus against his superior, the Secretary of the Interior, to compel
reinstatement. In the absence of a satisfactory (xplhaition. hocl,.

