OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

bear the cost of "reduplicating already physically adequate accommodations," on the demand and for the benefit of certain shippers, and this in the absence of exceptional
circumstances, if any there could be, making such an
extraordinary requirement reasonable. Besides, the statute made no provision for a preliminary hearing before
an administrative body and yet subjected the company
to the risk of a fine of at least five hundred dollars if it
awaited a hearing in court on the reasonableness of the
demand.
Here there was provision for a full hearing before the
commission and also in the district court of the county.
Both found the existing facilities inadequate, and there
was ample evidence to sustain the finding; so the order
cannot be regarded as calling for a reduplication of what
already is supplied.
Judgment affirmed.

LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. STATE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF
ILLINOIS EX REL. CAMERON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No.,204.

Argued March 13, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

An order of a state coimnission, under legislative authority, requiring a
railroad to restore a siding, is a state law within the meaning of the
provisions of the Constitution and acts of Congress regulating the
jurisdiction of this court. P. 424.
Under the laws of Illinois, a side track of a railroad company, used
principally in moving freight from and to a particular plant, held
open to use by the public and subject to public control like other
parts of the railroad,-impressed with a public character. Id.
Chicago & Northwe8tern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, ante, 416, followed, as to the

LAKE ERIE & W. R. It. CA). r. PUB. UTIL. COMM.
422.

429

Opinion of the Court.

power of a State to require a railroad company at its own expense to
restore a siding, used principally by a particular plant but available
generally as a public track, owned and controlled by the railroad as
part of its system. P. 424.
Such a requirement does not take the company's property for private
use, or for public use without compensation, in contravention of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 425.
277 Illinois, 574, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George B. Gillespie, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Jno. B. Cockrum was also on the briefs.
Mr. C. S. Schneider, with whom Mr. Edward J. Brundage, Attorney General of the State of Illinois, Mr. Albert D.
Rodenberg, Mr. William E: Trautman and Mr. Raymond S.
Pruitt were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VA
the court.

DEVAN'rnR delivered the opinion of

For twenty-five years the Lake Erie & Western Railroad
Company maintained and operated on its right of way at
Elliott, Illinois, a side track passing a grain elevator and
coal yard operated by one Cameron. The elevator stood
partly on the right of way and partly on ground owned by
Cameron, his occupancy of the former being under a
lease. In May, 1915, the elevator was destroyed by fire,
whereupon the company exercised a reserved option to
cancel the lease and also took up the side track. Cameron
protested against the latter, proceeded to rebuild the
elevator at its former location, but wholly on his own
ground, and in June, 1915, filed with the Public Utilities
Commission a petition praying that a restoration of the
track be ordered. After notice and hearing the commission granted such an order and it was upheld by the circuit
and supreme courts of the State. 277 Illinois, 574.

O(CT(OBEIR TERM, 1918
Opiiiinii of the Court.

249 U. S.

It is contended here, as it was in the state courts,' that
Slie order contravenes the due process of law clause of the
Fourteenth Amendmcnt, in that it takes property of the
railroad company for private use, or for public use without
compensation.
Such an order, being legislative in its nature and made
by an instrumentality of the State, is a state law within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States and
the laws of Congress regulating our jurisdiction. Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. RailroadCommission of Indiana,
221 U. S. 400, 403; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 162-163;
Home Telephone '& Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S.
278, 295-296; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro,
232 U. S. 548, 555; Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235
U. S. 651, 660-661; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134.
Under the laws of the State the side track before its
removal, although used principally in moving freight from
and to Cameron's elevator and.coal yard, was open to
use by the public and subject to public control like other
parts of the company's road; in other words, it was a
track which the State impressed with a public character.
Truesdale v. PeoriaGrape Sugar Co., 101 Illinois, 561, 567;
Chicago Dock & Canal Co. v. Garrity, 115 Illinois, 155, 167,
171; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Suffern, 129 Illinois, 274,
286. Not only so, but the statute under which its restoration was ordered contains express provisions whereby it
will retain that character and be open to use by other
shippers as well as by Cameron. Hurd's Stats., 1916,
c. I Ila, ยง 45.
The shipments for which the track has been used have
yielded the company a revenue of about $20,000 each
year for several years. What the cost of restoration will
be the record does not disclose, but the commission, with
knowledge of such matters, has found that it is justified
by the business reasonably to be expected; and the Su-

PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. v,.COMPARIA GENERAL. 425
422.

Syllabus.

preme Court of the State, besides sustaining that and other
findings of the commission, aptly points out that but for
the hasty and improper removal of the track the coinpany "would not be at the expense of replacing it."
When the track is restored the company will own it and
be entitled to make a reasonable charge for its use, just
as is the case with other property employed in the company's transportation service.
Applying the decision just announced in Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, ante, 416, we think the order
does not take property of the company for private use, or
for public use without compensation, in contravention of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

BOARD OF PUBLIC.UTILITY COMMISSIONERS v.
COMPAMIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THP
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
N. 253.

Submitted March 18, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Whether ยง 16 (e) of Philippine Act 2307 violated the Organic Act, e.
1369, 32 Stat. 691, by delegating to the Board of-Public Utility Commissioners power to prescribe the contents of reports required of
corporate common carriers, has become a moot question since this
case was brought to this court, due to an amendment of ยง 16 (e),
which itself prescribes in detail what the reports shall contain and
thereby supersedes the order here in question. The judgment is
therefore reversed, with directions to dismiss the cause without costs
to either party.
34 Phil. Rep. 136, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

