OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

upon the same facts, nevertheless there is here no reason
to grant the order prayed, since the previous order rested
upon the right and duty to petition for relief, if habeas
corpus was desired, to other and appropriate sources of
judicial power.
No reason, therefore, exists for granting the motion
and to avoid any implication of a necessity which does
not obtain, the motion is
Denied.

RATON WATER WORKS COMPANY v. CITY OF
RATON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 348.

Argued April 29, 30, 1919.-Dccided May 5, 1919.

When diverse citizenship is absent and the jurisdiction of the District
Court is based solely upon the ground that the suit arises under
the Constitution of the United States, an appeal will not lie to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but only, and exclusively, to this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Abram J. Rose, with whom Mr. Jesse G. Northcutt
and Mr. Henry W. Coil were on the brief, for Raton
Water Works Co.

Mr. John Henry Fry, with whom Mr. George L. Nye
was on the brief, for City of Raton.
Memorandum opinion by THE CHIEF

JUSTICE.

The certificate states that in a cause pending before
it on appeal from the district court, the jurisdiction of

RATON WATER WORKS Co. v. RATON.
552.

553

Opinion of the Court.

the court telow to entertain the cause on appeal was
questioned on the ground that the judgment of the district court was exclusively susceptible of being reviewed
by direct appeal to this court. The certificate further
states that the parties to the, cause in the district court
were both corporations of New Mexico and the jurisdiction of the district court to entertain the suit was based
solely upon the ground that it was one arising under
the Constitution' of the United States.
Resulting from these conditions the question which
the certificate propounds is this: "Has this court [the
Circuit Court of Appeals] jurisdiction of the appeal?"
The solution of the question is free from difficulty, since
whatever at one time may have been the basis for hesitancy concerning the question the necessity for a negative answer is now conclusively manifest as the result
of a line of decisions determining that, under the circumstances as stated, the Circuit Court of Appeals was
without jurisdiction of the appeal, as the exclusive power
to review was vested in this court. Judicial Code, §§ 128,
238; American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181
U. S. 277-281; Huguley Manufacturing Co. v. Galeton
Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, 295; Union & Planters' Bank
v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg
Waterworks Co., 202 U. S. 453, 458; Carolina Glass Co.
v. South Carolina, 240 U. S. 305, 318.
A negative answer to the question propounded is therefore directed.
And it is so ordered.

