OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

MILLER ET AL. v. McCLAIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 19.

Submitted November 13, 1918.-Decided March 31, 1919.

An Indian holding a trust patent under the General Allotment Act of
1887, who leases his allotment with permission granted under the Act
of June 25, 1910, and the supplementary regulations of the Interior
Department, may make a valid sale of his share of the crop reserved
in the lease as rental. P. 311.
Whether, apart from authority to lease, sale of the growing crop
by the allottee would be void under the Act of 1887, in a State where
such crops are personalty-not passed upon. P. 309.
The concession that the allottee had written permission from the Government to lease his allotment is taken as implying permission to lease
for himself, based on a finding of capacity under the Act of 1910 and
regulations, and not as referring to authority of the Government
to lease for the allottee in case of age, disability, etc., under the Act
of May31, 1900,31 Stat.221,229. P.312.
95 Kansas, 794, affirmed.

THnE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. E. Crane and Mr. E. D. Woodburn for plaintiffs
1,A error.

Mr. Robert Stone, Mr. Geo. T. McDermott and Mr. H. 0.
Caster for defendant in error. Mr. M. A. Bender and
Mr. Floyd W. Hobbs were on the brief.
MR.CMEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Under the Act of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388,
389, Mish-no, a member of the Prairie Band of the Pottawatomies, was allotted land in Kansas, which was to be

MILLER v. McCLAIN.
:308.

Opinion of the Court.

held in trust by the United '%tates and subject to the restrictions on the power of the allottee to deal with the
land, provided by that act.
Mish-no leased the land for the year 1912 for a rental
of one-half the corn and stalks to be produced. In May
of that year he sold his right to his share of the prospective
crop to McClain, and in the autumn when the crop was
made again sold his share to Cooney, who sold and delivered it to Miller.
The writ of error before us is prosecuted by Miller and;
Cooney to reverse the judgment of the court below, sustaining the purchase by McClain, with a resulting liability
in Miller and Cooney to McClain for the corn or its value.
The case as made by the argument turns exclusively upon
the correctness of the interpretation affixed by the court
below to ยง 5 of the Act of 1887, to the effect that as by the
law of Kansas a growing crop is a chattel, the sale to McClain was valid and not in conflict with the following provision of ยง 5:
"And if any conveyance shall be made of the lands set
apart and allotted as herein provided, or any contract
made touching the same, before the expiration of the
time above mentioned [the trust period], such conveyance or contract shall be absolutely null and void."
But we are of opinion that the solution of the case does
not require a consideration of this question since it only
exacts that we ascertain whether the particular contract
in question was by law excepted from the operation of the
prohibition of the Act of 1887, thus rendering an analysis
and application of that prohibition negligible.
As we have seen, what was sold to McClain was not an
undivided share of a growing crop of the allottee but was
that portion of the total crop of the tenant fixed by the
lease as due for rent. The lease, therefore, and the power
to make it was the criterion by which to determine the
application of the prohibition of the Act of 1887. If it

.OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

be that the lease was inconsistent with that act it would
follow that the stipulation as to the rent which it contained
would perish with the contract. If on the contrary it be
that the lease Was valid, the authority to make it would
include the right to stipulate for the rental. As it cannot
be questioned that a contract leasing land is one touching the land, it is indisputable that the lease was void
,under the Aqt of 1887 unless its validity may be excepted
by some other statut6ry provision.
By a course of legislation beginning in 1891 and extending to 1900; authority was conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior to sanction, when enumerated and
exceptional conditions existed, leases of land allotted
under the Act of 1887, and the power was given to the
Secretary to adopt rules and regulations governing the
exercise of the right (Acts of February 28, 1891, c.383,
26 Stat. 794, 795; August 15, 1894, c. 290, 28 Stat. 286,
305; June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 85; May 31, 1900, c.
598, 31 Stat. 221, 229). The general scope of the legislation is shown by the following provision of the Act of
1900, which does not materially differ from the prior acts.
"That whenever it shall be made to appear to the Secretary of the Interior that, by reason of age, disability, or
inability, any allottee of Indian lands can not personally,
and with benefit to himself, occupy or improve his allotment or any part thereof, the same may be leased upon
such terms, regulations, and' conditions as shall be prescribed by the Secretary for a term not exceeding five
years, for farming purposes only."
The regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
power given prescribed a general form of lease to be used
under the exceptional circumstances which the statute
contemplated and subjected its execution and the subjects connected with it to the scrutiny of the Indian
Bureau and to the express or implied approval of the
Secretary. (See "Amended rules and regulations to be

MILLER v. McCLAIN.
308.

Opinion of the Court.

observed in the execution of leases of Indian Allotments,"
approved by the Secretary of the Interior March 16,
1905.)
The foregoing provisions were enlarged by the Act of
June 25, 1910, c. 431, 36 Stat. 855, 856, as follows:
"That any Indian allotment held under a trust patent
may be leased by the allottee for a period not to exceed five
years, subject to and in conformity with such rules and
regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, and the proceeds of any such lease shall be paid to
the allottee or his heirs, or expended for his or their bene'
fit, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior.
And the regulations ofthe Secretary which were adopted
under this grant of power in express terms modified the
previous regulations on the subject "so far as to permit
Indian allottees of .land held under a trust patent, or the
heirs of such allottees who may be deemed by the superintendent in charge or any competency commission to
have the requisite knowledge, experience, and business
capacity to negotiate lease contracts, to make their own
contracts for .leasing their lands." The scope of such regulations is further made clear by the following provision
dealing with the rental to result from the lease by the
Indian of his allotted land under the power given: "The
question of consideration, whether a cash rental or share
of the crops grown on the land, shall be left to the determination, of the lessor."
(Regulations, approved
September 19, 1910.)
The right of an allottee under stated conditions to lease
and to stipulate for such rental as he deemed adequate,
whether in money or crop, having been thus undoubtedly.
provided for by the statute and the regulations, the only
question is, had the capacity of the allottee in this case
been recognized conformably to the statute and regulations
so as to justify his exercise of. the right? That question
would eem to be free from difficulty for the following

O('OBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

reasons: (a) because in the narrative statement of the
testimony on behalf of the plaintiff it is said that "Written permission had been given by the Government to
Mish-no to lease his own allotment and [he] had leased
the same for the year 1912;" (b) because there is no denial
or controversy as to the correctness of this statement;
(c) because the court below in its opinion treated the
matter as indisputable by stating, "Written permission
was given him [Mish-no] by the Government to lease his
allotment;" and (d) because the fact thus stated clearly
refers to the authority and capacity provided for by the
Act of 1910 and the regulations thereunder, that is, not
to the authority of the Government to lease for the allottee,
but to the right to give the allottee permission to lease his
allotted land fort himself as the result of a conclusion that
he had capacity .2odo so.
As it results that Mish-no, the allottee, had by virtue of
the statute of 1910 and resulting regulations the power to
make the lease and to stipulate for the rental for which
it provided, it follows, as the greater power includes the
lesser, that the contract for the sale of the growing crop
made with McClain was also within the statute and regulations and excluded from the prohibition of tie Act of
1887.
For the reasons which we have stated we affirm the
judgment of the court below which sustained a like conclusion, although we have not found it necessary to express any opinion as to the correctness of the reasoning
by which the courtbelow was controlled in its action.
Judgment affirmed.

