UNITED STATES v. PURCELL ENVELOPE CO.

313

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. PURCELL ENVELOPE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 168,

Argued March 10, 1919.--Decided March 31, 1919.

In answer to an advertisement under Rev. Stats., § 3709, claimant
made the lowest bid for furnishing envelopes and wrappers to
the Post Office Department, which was duly acc(Ttd. Held, that
a contract was completed with the same force and effect as if a
formal writing had been executed, and bond approved, by the
Department, and that the Postmaster General or his successor had
no discretion to revoke it; P. 317.
Charges embodied in requests for findings that such a contract was procured by one without financial standing, by imposing on the Postmaster General, held concluded by the judgment of the Court of
Claims, sustaining the contract. P. 320.
Upon the Government's repudiation of such a contract before the time
for performance has arrived, the measure of claimant's damages is
the difference between the contract price and what would have been
the cost of performance. Id.
This court will assume that evidence touching the amount of damages,
including the expense necessary to make the contractor ready (as it
was found to be) for performance of its contract, was duly considered
by the Court of Cliims. P. 321.
A contract to furnish and deliver promptly in quantities as ordered
the envelopes and newspaper wrappers that the contractor may be
called upon by the Post Office Department to furnish during four
years, construed as entitling the contractor to supply all needed by the
Department in that period. P. 322.
Motion to remandito the Court of Claims, for additional findings,
. denied. P. 323.
51 Ct. Clms. 211, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the. opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Appellee.

249 U. S.

Mr. Huston Thompson and Mr. J. Robt. Anderson were
on 'the briefs, for the United States:
The proposal by its terms contemplated only an agreement to enter into a contract. The contract itself, which
was never executed on behalf of the Government, contained material matter not found in the proposal and acceptance, and was drawn to be executed by the Postmaster General, or, with his authority, by his Third
Assistant, as required by law (19 Stat. 319, 355); and the
bond required to be approved. Thus the case is clearly
one of those where the agreement at most was upon the
preliminaries to, a contract which was never made. Steamship Co. v. Swift, 86 Maine, 248, 259, 261; Ambler v.
Whipple, 20 Wall. 546, 556; Commercial Telegram Co. v.
Smith, 47 Hun, 494, 501, 502. All contracts-of a similar
nature, since 1882, had been signed by the Postmaster
General. In Garfielde v. United States, 93 U. S. 242, the
acceptance made the contract because under the law relating to the class of contracts there involved (to carry
the mail) all the conditions were statutory:, and these
having been complied with, the action of the Postmaster
General was merely ministerial.
The contract was for the supply of such envelopes and
wrappers as the Department might call for. Nowhere is
there expressed any obligation of the United States to
order in any particular quantity. The obligation is
simply to pay for the articles accepted and delivered under
the contract, at the rates specified, with the additional
obligation to accept and pay for stock on hand at the expiration of the term, not exceeding the Department's
average requirements for fifteen days. Merriam v. United
States, 107 U. S.437, 439, 444; Lobenstein v. United States,
91 U. S. 324, 325.
Mr. Arthur Black, with whom Mr. Stanton C. Peelle and
Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby were on the briefs, for appellee.

UNITED STATES ,. PURCELL ENVELOPE CO. 315
313.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Action brought y appellee, the Purcell Envelope
Company, which we shall designate as the Envelope Company, against the United States for damages for breach
of an express contract, The Court of Claims rendered
judgment for the En lope Company for the sum of
$185,331.76. The United States appeals.
The findings of the court are quite voluminous, but it
is only necessary to quote from them to the following
effect: The Post Office Department, through the Postmaster General, James A. Gary, invited by advertisement bids "for furnishing stamped envelopes and newspaper wrappers in such quantities as may be called for by
the department during a period of four years, beginning
on the first day of October, 1898." In pursuance of the
invitation the Envelope Company submitted a bid in
the manner and time specified in the advertisements of the
Department.
The bid of the Envelope Company was accepted, and
2nd. That the
the following order entered: "
contract for furnishing the envelopes called for by the
advertisement and specifications referred to be awarded
to the Purcell Envelope Co., of Holyoke, Mass., as the
lowest bidder for the Government standard of paper, at
the following prices a thousand, namely: . . ." The
Department, before issuing the order, investigated the
financial responsibility of the Envelope Company and
considered it satisfactory.
April 21, 1898, the Department sent to the Envelope
Company a "contract in quadruplicate," to be executed
"at once" and returned to the Department. It was
promptly returned as requested, signed by the president
of the Envelope Company, with the Fidelity & Deposit
Company-of Maryland as surety in the sum of $200,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

April 27, 1898, the Department, by the Third Assistant
Postmaster General, wrote to the Envelope Company as
follows: "Your telegram of to-day is before me. As the
Postmaster General has not yet signed the contract
awarded by the Department to your company for furnishing stamped envelopes during the coming four years,
but is holding the matter in abeyance, I have to request
that you suspend all action under my letter of the 21st
instant until further orders." The Envelope Company
had, however, already made arrangements and contracts
for the supplying to it of the necessary materials to fulfill the terms of the contract and was ready and willing
at all times to fully perform it according to its terms. But
neither the Postmaster General, nor any department or
officer of the Government made any call or request upon
the Envelope Company to furnish or deliver the envelopes
or wrappers which were the subject-matter of the contract and the company's plant was kept intact ready for
the performance of the contract, remaining idle.
July 22, 1898, the Department, through Postmaster
General Smith, the immediate successor of Postmaster
General Gary, the latter having gone out of office, revoked
and canceled the contract and declared it to be null and
void. Prior to doing so the Postmaster General instituted
an investigation through one of his proper officers into
the business and financial standing of the Envelope Company and the report thereunder was unfavorable to the
company.
On or about July 22, 1898, the Envelope Company,
having received information that the Postmaster General
designed readvertising for proposals, sought by a bill
filed in the Supreine Court of the District of Columbia
to enjoin his action. The bill was dismissed August 15,
1898. The court, however, was of opinion that a contract
had been executed~but that the Envelope Company had an
efficient rer' ,.: law.

UNITED STATES v. PURCELL ENVELOPE CO. 317
313.

Opinion of the Court.

An offer was subsequently made by two other companies to supply the Post Office Department, upon an
emergency contract, stamped envelopes and wrappers
of the kinds and qualities the Government should need.
The Department declared that an emergency existed
under § 3709, Rev. Stats., accepted the offer and entered
into a contract in accordance therewith.
The total cost to the Envelope Company for materials
and the manufacture and delivery of the envelopes and
wrappers in accordance with the terms of its contract
would have been $2,275,224.46. Deducting that sum
from the contract price leaves a difference of $185,331.76,
which represents the profit the company would have mad6
if it had been allowed to perform its contract. For fb.+
sum judgment was entered.
It will be observed from the recitation of the above
facts that the case presents the propositions-First, was
there a completed contract between the Envelope Company and the United States through its Postmaster
General, and, second, if there was such contract, what is
the measure of damages?
For an affirmative answer to the first proposition the
Envelope Company relies on Garfielde v. United States,
93 U. S.242, and on that case the Court of Claims rested
its decision and considered that the case was supported
by other cases which were cited.
The case may be considered as the anticipation of thisits prototype. It passed upon a transaction of the Post
Office Department and decided that a proposal in accordance with an advertisement by that department and
the acceptance by it of the proposal "created a contract
of the same force and effect as if a formal ,contract had
been written out and signed by the parties." And for
this, it was said, many authorities were cited but it was
considered so sound as to make unnecessary review of or
comment upon them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

In resistance to the case as conclusive the Government
urges the qualification that "the court did not say, or
assume to say, that the acceptance of the proposal in all
[italics counsel's] cases constituted a contract, but held
that it did in the present [thai] case," and that "there
was a reason for the conclusion

.

.

.

which does not

obtain in the case at bar." We cannot agree, and in answer to the first qualification it is only necessary to say
that the court expressed a principle, not, of course, applicable to all cases, but applicable to like cases; and the
present is a like case, identical in all that makes the principle applicable. And in so determining we answer the
other objection of the Government that there were fea.tures in the law in the Garfielde Case which do not obtain
in the pending case, which constituted, if we understand
counsel, the determination of the law against the act of
the Postmaster General, his duty being merely ministerial.
In the present case it is insisted his action is not so subordinate, that he has discretion, and when exercised it is
paramount, his action being "quasi judicial," the contract not having been consummated, and that, therefore,
it was within his power to review and set aside the decision
of his predecessor. We are unable to concede the fact or
the power asserted to be dependent upon it. There must
be a point of time at which discretion is exhausted. The
procedure for the advertising for bids for supplies or services to the Government would else be a mockery-a procedure, we may say, that is not permissive but required
(§3709, Rev. Stats.). By it the Government is given the
benefit of the competition of the market and each bidder
is given the chance for a bargain. It is a provision, therefore, in the interest of both Government and bidder, necessarily giving rights to both and placing obligations on
both. And it is not out of place to say that the Government should be animated by a justice as anxious to consider the rights of the bidder as to insist upon its own.

UiNITED STATES v. PURCELL ENVELOPE CO. 319
313.

Opinion of the Court..

And, we repeat, there must be some point at which discretion ceases and obligation takes its place. That point

is defined in the Garfielde Case, and that the definition is
applicable to the case at bar is illustrated by the findings
of the Court of Claims. Upon the invitation, in accordance
with law, of Postmaster General Gary, the Envelope
Company and eleven others submitted bids. The Envelope Company was the lowest bidder and after the
Company had been found upon investigation to' be financially responsible its bid was-accepted by entry of a formal
order. The Company was then directed by the Department to execute the necessary contract in quadruplicate,
which it did, and returned the contract to the Department with a surety whose responsibility was not questioned at any time nor was other security demanded, as it
might have been. Postmaster General Gary went out of
office, and his successor, either by inducement or upon
his .wn resolution, revoked the contract and entered into
a contract with other companies.
The record furnishes no justification of such action.
There is no charge of default against the Envelope Company, no charge of inability to perform its contract, except
in a particular which we shall hereafter mention. There
is, it is true, a finding that Postmaster General Smith
caused an investigation to be made of the financial standing of the Envelope Company and that the report thereunder was unfavorable to it. This is made a great deal of,
and the fact that the contract was not signed nor the
bond of the Envelope Company approved.
It makes no difference that the contract was not formally
signed or the bond formally approved, as counsel for the
Government contends they should have been, both by
the terms of the contract and by a statute of the United
States (28 Stat. 279). Their formal execution, as we have
seen, was not essential to the consummation of the contract. That was accomplished, as was decided in the

OCTOBER I'R:M, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Garfielde Case, by the acceptance of the bid of the Envelope Company and the entry of the order awarding the
contract. to it. Therefore, we do not follow with minute
attention the argument of the Government in asserting
the power of Postmaster General Smith to review and
annul his predecessor's decision and that directed against
the financial standing of the Envelope Company or the
deception the Government asserts was practiced on Postmaster General Gary, which are made the subject of a request for findings. We may assume that the Court of
Claims considered such charges and all other elements
before concluding that the Envelope Company was entitled to recover. And we pass to the question of damages.
The Court of Claims decided that the measure of damages was the difference between the cost to the Envelope
Company of materials and the manufacture and delivery
of the envelopes and wrappers in accordance with the
terms of its contract and what it would have made if it
had been allowed to perform the contract. For this the
court cited and relied upon Roehm v. Horst, 178 U. S. 1.
it is there decided that the positive refusal to perform
a contract is a breach of it, though the time for performance
has not arrived, and that liability for the breach at once
occurs. And it is further decided that the measure of
damages is the difference between the contract price and
the cost of performance. The case was replete in its review of prior cases. We may refer, however, to United
States v. Speed, 8 Wall. 77, 85; United States v. Behan,
110 U. S. 338; Hinckley v. PittsburghSteel Co., 121 U. S.
264.
The Government does not attack the ruling but contends
that it was not properly applied by the Court of Claims.
The contention is rested on the following finding:" Claimant, contemplating making the envelopes under its said
contract on the.Wickham envelope machines, entered into
negotiations with Horace J. Wickham whereby he prom-

UNITED STATES i,. PURCELL ENVELOPE CO. 321
313.

Opinion of the Court.

ised to furnish claimant with a sufficient number of said
machines on which to perform said (envelope) contract,
and to have some of them ready before the beginning
of the contract term, October 1, 1898."
The Government says of the Wickham machine that it
made the 'envelope in one operation and that there is
nothing to show that the Court of Claims, "as an incident
to the cost of performance .of the contract, considered the
cost of the Wickham machines to appellee, although evidence of the same was submitted to it." And further,
"if the court did find this item, and did consider it in
arriving at the judgment, appellant is entitled to know
this." Again, the Government contends that "so far as
the findings are concerned it does not appear that the
court allowed a reasonable deduction from the amount of
the judgment by reason of appellee's release from care,
trouble, risk, and responsibility attending the performance
of the contract."
To the contentions there may be offset the decision of
the Court of Claims. The court in its opinion expressly
declares that the findings showed that the Envelope Company had fulfilled all the requirements of the Postmaster
General and was ready and willing to furnish the envelopes
and wrappers and recognized, we may assume, as grounds
to be considered the elements the Government urges, so
far as the court deemed them relevant or as having any
probative strength, and its appreciation of them was obtained after protracted litigation involving two complete
trials. We are not, therefore, disposed, on assertions so
elusive or disputable of estimation as those of the Government, to reverse or modify the judgment.
There are other contentions of the Government which
we may pass without comment except one which it submits upon a supplemental brief. It is addressed to the
rule of damages adopted by the Court of Claims and urges
that it was erroneous, haged on the theory, as it is as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

serted, that the Envelope Company "had a contract which
entitled 'it to furnish all the stamped envelopes and wrappers, of the sizes mentioned in the specification, which the
Post Office Department should need [italics counsel's] during the four years' contract." This is denied, and it is
said, quoting the contract, that the Envelope Company
was only to "furnish and deliver promptly and in quantities as ordered," the envelopes and wrappers "that it
may be called upon by the Post Office Department to furnish during the four years." It is difficult to treat the
contention seriously. There is something surprising in the
declaration that a contract to supply a great department
of the Government with envelopes and newspaper wrappers which it might need for a period of four years at a
cost of nearly two andi one-half million dollars bore but
scant obligation upon the part of the Government, or, to
be precise and in the language of counsel, that the Envelope Company "could not have forced the giving of
orders [by the Government] in excess of fifteen days'
supply," and that this was the extent of the Government's
obligation. And the further contention is, that the obligation being thus limited the damages the Envelope Company was entitled to-ve'e, at most, "the expenses, incurred
in getting ready to perform the contract, and the profits it
would have derived from the manufacture and sale" of
such fifteen days' supply-that all else was expectation
and cannot be capitalized by the Envelope Company and
made the basis of profits and the responsibility of the
Government. If the contention be more than dialectical
we may express wonder that it was not given prominence
in the Court of Claims and that in this court it was reserved for the afterthbught of a supplemental brief. The
further answer may be made that the contract of the Envelope Company was not so dependent as urged, and that
its expectation was substantial is evidenced by the haste
of the Department, after the revocation of the contract

O'PRY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

313.

with-the Company, to declare an emergency in its need
and enter into a contract with other companies.
On January 13th the Government made a motion to
remand the case to the Court of Claims for additional
findings. It was denied, but the right reserved to make
such order if we should be so advised. Our attention is
directed to the motion, which it is submitted should be
considered on the merits. Again considering the motion
and the case as it has been developed by argument of
counsel, we think the motion should not be granted. The
judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

O'PRY, SOLE SURVIVING DESCENDANT AND
SOLE HEIR OF KOUNS, ETC., ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 216.

Argued March 12, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.

The Act of July 2, 1864, c. 225, 13 Stat. 375, § 8, providing for the
purchase for the United States at designated places of the products
of States declared in insurrection, at not exceeding three-fourths
their New York market value, was strictly in addition, as its title
declared, to the Abandoned Property Act of 1863, and not an amendment of that act in the sense of § 162 of the Judicial Code, which
gives jurisdiction to the Court'of Claims over claims for property
taken under the latter act and amendments and sold. P. 328.
The words "addition" and "amendment," as applied to statutes,
may or may not have the same meaning, according to the purpose.
P. 330.
51 Ct. Clms. ill, affirmed.

