OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

249 U. S.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
JOHNSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STAT

OF

MISSOURI.
No. 291.

Submitted March 26, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Under Jud. Code, § 237, as amended by the Act of September 6, 1916,
this court cannot consider a claim of federal right which was not
made in the state court at the proper time and in the proper manner
under the state system of pleading and practice and which, without
evasion or for the purpose of defeating the claim, was denied consideration on that ground. P. 493.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, following its established practice,
refused to consider a sister state judgment which was rendered six
months after the judgnent of the Missouri trial court, and was not
set up in any pleading or introduced in evidence, but was brought to
the notice of the appellate courts only in argument and as an exhibit
to a brief. Held, that full faith and credit was not denied. Id.
Whether a charter granted to al insurance company by a resolution
of a state legislature is a public act or record within the meaning
of the "full faith and credit clause"-not decided. P. 494.
The exercise of their independent judgment by the courts of one State
in construing a charter granted by the legislature of another can
raise no federal question, if no statute or decision of the other State,
construing the charter, was pleaded or put in evidence. Id.
Writ of certiorari to review 271 Missouri, 562, dismissed.

THE case

is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James C. Jones, Mr. Geo. F. Haid and Mr. James
C. Jones, Jr., for petitioner, in support of the contention
that the Connecticut judgment was before the court
below, relied on Jenkins v. International Bank, 127 U. S.
484, 488, insisting that the only difference between that

case and this was that in that one the judgment in the
second action was brought forward while the trial court

HARTFORD LIFE INS. (10.
490.

r. JOHNSON.

Opinion of the Court.

still retained jurisdiction of the original action, whereas
in the case at bar the decree was brought forward for the
first time in the Kansas City Court of Appeals because
the trial court had, by the appeal'to that court, lost all
jurisdiction of the action. This decree being entitled,
under the Constitution, to full faith and credit, it would
seem, on principle, that it should be accorded the same
full faith and credit in the Kansas City Court of Appeals
and in the Supreme Court of Missouri, even though the
cause was then pending on appeal, as it would have been
entitled in the trial court had it been rendered and introduced in evidence at the time the trial was had.
Mr. Matthew A. Fyke for respondent.
Parks was on the brief.
MR.JUSTICE CLARKE

Mr. Peyton A.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit, on a life insurance policy or certificate,
in which judgment was rendered against the company,
petitioner, successively, by three courts of the State of
Missouri. The case is in this court on writ of certiorari
granted on the asserted ground that the State Supreme
Court failed and refused to give full faith and credit to
the judgment and decree of a superior court of the State of
Connecticut, and also to the petitioner's charter, "a public
record and act of the State of Connecticut," in violation
of the rights secured to it by Article IV, § 1, of the Constitution of the United States.
Respondent moves to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction.
The decree of the superior court of Connecticut, to
which it is claimed full faith and credit was denied, was
rendered in the case of Charles H. Dresser et al. v. The
Hartford Life Insurance Company, of Hartford, Connecticut,--the petitioner. The character of this decree and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

the effect which must be given to it when properly pleaded
and introduced in evidence in courts of other States are
both sufficiently stated in Hartford Life Insurance Co. v.
Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, and in Hartford Life Insurance Co.' v.
Barber, 245 U. S. 146.
The respondent, on this motion to dismiss, does not
seek to have the decision. in the cases cited modified, but
asserts that the claim of right now mide was not so "set
up or claimed" in the siate courts that full faith and
credit could be or was denied to the Dresser decree.
The judgment in this case in the trial court was rendered against the petitioner in September, 1909, and the
decree in the Dresser Case was not rendered until six
months later, in March, 1910. The latter decree was not
set up in any pleading and was not introduced in evidence
in this case. The only way in which it came to the notice
of the Missouri courts was in argument and as an exhibit
to a brief filed in the appellate courts and the Supreme
Court of Missouri dealt with it in this single paragraph:
"The case at bar was tried below on May 12, 1909,
which was prior in time to the entering of the decree in
the Dresser Case, and the record in the Dresser Case was
therefore not offered or presented in the trial of this case.
Since the record of the Dresser Case is in no manner
properly raised or lodged in this case, we do not deem it
to be within the scope of our review and likewise the
Federal question based thereon. Under such circumstances the rule announced by the Supreme Court of the
United States in HartfordLife Insurance Co. v. Ibs, supra
[237 U. S. 662], should not be applied to this case."
The jurisdiction of this court to review the final judgment or decree of the highest court of a State, in such a
case as we have here, is defined in § 237 of the Judicial
Code, as amended September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726,
which provides that it shall be competent for this court,
by certiorari to require any such cause to be certified to

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. JOHNSON.

490.

Opinion of the Court.

it for review when there is claimed in it any title, right,
privilege or immunity under the Constitution of the
United States and "the decision is either in favor of or
against the title, right, privilege, or immunity especially
set up or claimed, by either party, under such Constitution." It is the settled law that this provision means
"that the claim must be asserted at the proper time and
in the proper manner by pleading, motion or other appropriate action under the state system of pleading and
practice, . . . and upon the question whether or not
such a claim has been so asserted the decision of the state
court is binding upon this court, when it is clear, as it is
in this case, that such decision is not rendered in a spirit of
evasion for the purpose of defeating the claim of federal
right." Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Mires, 242 U. S.
532, 535; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 371, and cases
cited.
No suggestion is, or could be made, that the Missouri
State Supreme Court's holding in this case was framed
to evade the consideration of the federal right now asserted, for it 'had long been the established law of that
State that under its system of practice the construction
of either the federal or state constitution would not be
treated as involved in a case, in a jurisdictional sense,
unless it appeared that such question was raisedand ruled
on in the trial court, and also that constitutional questions could not be injected into a case for the first time
in an appellate court by argument or brief of counsel for
the purpose of giving jurisdiction. Miller v. Connor, 250
Missouri, 677, 684. It has further been uniformly held by
that court since 1836 thzt it will not take judicial notice
of the laws of other States, but that they must be
proved, as other facts, by evidence introduced at the
trial. Southern Illinois & Missouri Bridge Co. v. Stone,
174 Missouri, 1, 33.
On the authorities thus cited we are obliged to conclude

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

that the question as to the faith and credit which should
be. given to the Dresser decree was not so presented to or
ruled upon by the Supreme Court of Missouri as to present
a federal question for review by this court.
But, as if anticipating the result we have just reached,
the petitioner contends that full faith and credit were
denied to its charter, "a public record and act of the
State of Connecticut," which was introduced in evidence,
for the reason that the Supreme Court of Missouri, interpreting that charter, erroneously approved the charge
to the jury by the trial court "that it devolved upon the
defendant to prove that the assessment," the non-payment
of which was relied upon as forfeiting the policy sued
upon, was made by the directors of the defendant. The
petitioner introduced evidence tending to prove that the
assessment under discussion was made, not by formal
action of the board of directors, but by executive officers of the company, "the president and secretary .
or the vice president and secretary, or possibly the vice
president and assistant secretary," and it contended that
this was sufficient in law because it had long been the
practice of the company and was recognized by the directors as action taken in their behalf under authority
delegated by them.
Even if this charter, which was granted by a resolution
of the Assembly of Connecticut, be regarded as a public
act or record of that §tate within the scope of the constitutional provision, Article IV, § 1 (which is not decided),
nevertheless, since no statute of Connecticut or decision
of any court of that State was pleaded or introduced in
evidence in this case, giving a construction to the provision of the charter which the Missouri courts, treating as
.valid. interpreted, the exercise by those courts of an independent judgment in placing a constructiom upon it cannot present a federal question under the full faith and
credit clause of the Constitution. Louisti//e & Nashrille

BROUGHAM v. BLANTON.MFG. CO.
490.

Counsel for Appellants.

R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, 50, and Western Life
Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261, 273, 275.
It is asserted that the record presents other constitutional questions which give this court jurisdiction to review the case, but an examination shows the claims to be
too unsubstantial to merit discussion and the writ must be
Dismissed.

BROUGHAM ET AL. v. BLANTON MANUFACTURING COMPANY.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 247.

Argued March 19, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

The Mcat'Inspection Law applies to oleomargarine. P. 498.
Registration of a trade-name under the Trade Mark Law has no bearing on the right to use it under the Meat Inspection Law. P. 499.
Under the Meat Inspection Law the power to determine whether a

trade-name is false, or deceptive, is lodged with the Secretary of
Agriculture, and his determination, if not arbitrary, is conclusive.
Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co., ante, 479. Id.
The power of the Secretary is a continuing one; approval of a name
at one time not precluding its disapproval later. P. 501.
Held, that the Secretary, having approved the name "Creamo" as
a designation of an oleo product, containing 30% cream, and which
was strongly extolled on that ground, was amply justified in denying the use when the cream had been greatly reduced or omitted,
and replaced by skimmed milk; notwithstanding evidence that
the manufacturer invested heavily upon the faith of the approval.
Id.
243 Fed. Rep. 503, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor appellants.

