CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

HARRIMAN NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK v.
SELDOMRIDGE, AS RECEIVER OF THE MERCANTILE NATIONAL BANK OF PUEBLO, COLORADO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued January 31, 1919.-Deeided March 3, 1919.

A, the cashier of the M. National Bank and in control of its affairs,
acting in the name of B, its president, by correspondence induced
the H. Natioial.Bank to agree to lend B a sum of money. to be
secured by the joint note of A and. B and certain collateral. A then
bought certain shares from T, with a check on the M. Bank signed
with B's name, and forwarded by mail to the H. Bank a forged note
and collaterals in apparent compliance with the loan agreement,
upon receipt of which the H. Bank credited B with the amount.
agreed on; but in the meantime the cbeck to T had been paid by
the M. Bank, and A, to meet it, had made a slip falsely purporting to show a deposit there by B of a check on the H. Bank for
the amount of the proposed loan. Having at first credited B with
the amount of the loan, the H. Bank, under instructions sent by
A in the names of the M. Bank and of B, respectively, made bookkeeping entries transferring the credit to the M. Bank, and later,
upon receiving notice from B to cancel A's authority to a .t for
the M. Bank. made further entries withdrawing the credit from the

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintilf in Error.

24!1 U. S.

M. Bank's account; and still later, upon learning that the M. Bank
had failed, made additional entries to cancel the loan. B repudiated
A's action and denied liability. Held: (1) That, as against thce M.
Bank, the H. Bank had the right to rescind and cancel the loan
agreement for failure to comply with its conditions and for the
fraud; (2) that the payment of the check to T and the making of
the fraudulent deposit to meet it, having occurred before the 11.
Bank received the note and collateral or made any entry on its
books, could not subject it to liability in favor of the M. Bank;
(3) that the bookkeeping entries made by the H. Bank could not
create such liability, in the absence of any consideration moving
to it from the M. Bank, and in the absence of any ground for estoppel.
P. 10.
240 Fed. Rep. 111, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Bertram L.
Kraus was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The credit was obtained by fraud, the collateral security being forged, and hence the defendant was entitled to
rescind. The evidence clearly shows that the note itself
and the powers of attorney for transfer of the certificates
of stock were forged. In view of the forged collateral,
it makes no difference whether W. B. Slaughter authorized his signature and thus became, a party to the note
or not. Bradley v. Seaboard National Bank, -167 N. Y.
427; Flatow v. Jefferson Bank, 135 App. Div. 24; Mann
v. Franklin Trust Co., 158 App. Div. 491.
On the transfer of the credit, the Mercantile Bank took
subject to all equities. It had no standing superior to
that of the Slaughters. There was no negotiable paper
used; the transfer was merely a book entry of credit. The
suggestion of an account stated between the Mercantile
Bank and the defendant is unavailing. The former was
simply the transferee of a chose in action created through
fraud. An account stated may be opened on- proof of
fraud or mistake. Lockwood v. Thorne, 18 N. Y. 285, 292.
See also Greenhalgh Co. v. Farmers National Bank, 226

HARRIMAN NAT'L BANK v. SELDOMRIDGE.
I. •

3

Argwueut for Plaintiff in Error.

Pa. St. 184; ,Shipman v. Bank of State of New York, 126
N. Y. 318, 327; Talcott v. First NationalBank, 53 Kansas,
480; Curry v. Wisconsin National Bank, 149 Wisconsin,
413; First National Bank v. Whitman, 94 U. S. 343, 346.
Mere book entries do not create an obligation. Rankin
v. City National Bank, 208 U. S. 541, 545, 546; Cherry v.
City National Bank, 144 Fed. Rep. 587; Kendrick State
Bank v. First National Bank of Portland, 213 Fed. Rep.
610; Modern Woodmen of America v. Union National
Bank, 108 Fed. Rep. 753; Talcott v. First National Bank,
supra.
The defendant is not estopped from showing the fraud
and denying liability. Even if the payment had been
made upon the faith of a representation by the defendant
that it would make the loan or extend the credit, the
representation being explicitly conditioned upon the receipt of described collateral, the defendant could not be
held on the delivery of forged collateral. To base an estoppel, the representation must be taken as it is made.
There was no payment which changed the position of
the Mercantile Bank. The defendant is thus clearly entitled to rescind, both as against the Slaughters and the
Mercantile Bank; and there is no basis for the finding of
estoppel. Selover v. First National Bank, 77 Minnesota,
140. The receiver contends that if W. B. Slaughter had
drawn a check against the amount credited to him and
given the check to the Mercantile Bank which had been
paid, the latter could have retained the avails of the
check, citing American National Bank v. Miller, 185 Fed.
Rep. 338; 229 U. S. 517; National Bank v. Burkhardt,
100 U. S. 6S6. But this introduces a question of negotiable paper.
C. C. Slaughter was acting for the bank; he had no
interest adverse to the bank; it was a transaction in fraud
of the defendant but not in fraud of the Mercantile Bank.
If the bank is to take the benefit of the act of its agent it

OCYITOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant iii Error.

249 U. S.

must take the burden of what the agent knows at the
time of. the transaction. The Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall.
356, 366-368; Ditty v. Dominion National Bank, 75 Fed.
Rep. 769; Aldrich v. ChemicalNationalBank, 176 U. S. 618,
633, 634; Holden v. New York & Erie Bank, 72 N. Y. 286.
The receiver stands in no better position than the bank.
Rankin v. City National Bank, 208 U. S. 541.
Mr. Stuart G. Gibboney, with whom Mr. William A.
Barber and Mr. George M. Burditt were on the brief, for
defendant in error:
The Mercantile Bank, having to its credit $53,000, was
entitled to use the money as it saw fit unless it was guilty
of fraud, and the defendant was bound to retain that
amount and to pay it out only upon the order of the
Mercantile Bank. Concededly the defendant withdrew
.S30,000 without any such order. A bank cannot discharge its liability to a depositor except by payment to
him or on his written order. Leather Manufacturers'Bank
v. Merchants' Bank, 128 U. S. 26.
The statement sent to the Mercantile Bank showing
the credit was binding upon the defendant unless there
was some mutual mistake or fraud. Leather Manufacturers' iBank v. Morgan, 117 U. S. 96; Daintry v. Evans,
148 App. Div. 275. No mistake on the part of the Mercantile Bank has been shown. The evidence shows that
it was the practice of C. C. Slaughter to draw checks
against his father's account, to which the latter never

objected. The Mercantile Bank had no knowledge of the
loan agreement, nor did it rely upon any such agreement.
The only knowledge it had was the deposit ticket and
the subsequent information from the defendant that the
$30,000 had been placed to its credit. The transfer of
the credit had the same effect as would the deposit of
cash. The case is like American NationalBank v. Miller,
229 U. S. 517, where it was held that the collection of a

HARRIIAN NVI"I, BANK v. SELDOMRIDGE.

5

Arguinent for Defcndant int Error.

check and crediting by a bank on which the check isdrawn, in the absence of fraud or mistake, constitutes
payment. See also National Bank v. Burkhardt, 100
U. S. 686; Oddic v. National City Bank, 45 N. Y. 735.
The fact that the Mercantile Bank did not forward a
check signed by W. B. Slaughter is immaterial. It had
his authority, his assignment, in the form of a deposit
I icket; it paid out all of the funds for his benefit. tIho
defendant accepted a telegram as sufficient authority for
the transfer. Both banks acted in good faith. Care upon
defendant's part would have saved the situation.
The knowledge of C. C. Slaughter cannot be imputed
to the Mercantile Bank, because the Slaughters were
acting in their individual capacities, in a transaction in
which they were personally interested, and their interests
were adverse to those of the bank. American National
Bank v. Miller, supra; American Surety Co. v. Pauly, 170
U. S. 133, 156; Levy & Cohn Co. v. Kaufman, 114 Fed.
Rep. 170; Bank of Overton v. Thompson, 118 Fed. Rep.
798; Hilliard v. Lyons, 180 Fed. Rep. 685; In re United
Nlatcs lhr Co., 239 Fed. Rep. 703. The fercantile Bank
(lid not derive its right to the $30,000 by any connection
with the loan, but by paying out its money on the order
of
W. B. Slaughter's agent, on the assertion that the
amount
had been deposited to its credit in the
defendant bank.
While the defendant was entitled to rescind as against
the Slaughters because of the fraud, this is not true as to
the Mercantile Bank, which had become the owner of
those funds for value without notice. The book entries are
only evidence of the happening of a specific event-the
transfer from W. B. Slaughter's account to that. of the
[ercantile Bank of $30,000. That is just as real as if
the defendant had handed to the Mercantile Bank $30,000
i cash.
The cases cited to the effect that mere book entries (10

OCTOBER .TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249) U. S.

not create an obligation are inapplicable here. Those
were cases where the original parties were still the ones
in interest, and there were no third parties who had, without notice and for value, parted with a thing of value.
The Mercantile Bank is not now seeking to retain a gain
by reason of the transaction, as in Selover v. FirstNational
Bank, 77 Minnesota, 110, but to recoup its loss brought
about by the extreme negligence of the defendant. In
The Distilled Spirits Case, 11 Wall. 356, the agent had no
interest adverse to that of the principal. In Ditty v.
Dominion National Bank, 75 Fed. Rep. 769; Aldrich v.
Chemical National Bank, 176 U. S. 618; and Holden v.
New York & Erie Bank, 72 N. Y. 286, the bank had derived a specific benefit from the transaction which it was
seeking to hold.
M.R. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Following the failure in March, 1915, of the Mercantile
National Bank of Pueblo, Colorado, the Receiver appointed by the Comptroller commenced this suit to recover from the H-arriman National Bank of New York
City $30,000, alleged to be due to the Mercantile Bank.
On issue joined before a jury, the court, after refusing a
request of the Harriman National Bank for a peremptory
instruction directing a verdict in its favor, granted a request of like character made by the Receiver, and a judgment on the resulting verdict for the amount claimed was
entered.
The case is before us on error to the judgment of the
court below affirming that of the trial court, our jurisdiction to review resulting because the case from its inception involved the enforcement of the National Banking Act, and therefore, was not dependent in the trial
court solely upon diversity of, citizenship. Auten v.

HARRIMAN NAT'IL BANK v. SELDOMR.IDGE.
1.

7-

Opinion 4f the Court.

United States National Bank, 174 U. S. 125, 141; Inter-

national
Trust Co. v., Weeks, 203 U. S. 364, 366.
The case
is this. W. B. Slaughter, through stock ownership, controlled the Mercantile National Bank of Pueblo,
Colorado. He was president and his son, C. C. Slaughter,
was cashier. Prior to 1915, Slaughter, the president, removed his residence from Pueblo to Texas, engaging there
in the cattle business and leaving his son, the cAshier in
complete control of the Mercantile Bank and of all its
affairs. W. B. Slaughter was also the president of the
Silverton National Bank of Silverton, Colorado, and controlled the affairs of that bank by the ownership of a
majority of its stock. At Silverton there was another
national bank carrying on business, the First National,
the majority of whose stock was owned by one Thatcher.
The correspondent of the Mercantile Bank in New York
City was the Harriman National, with which it had a
checking account. On January 28, 1915, C. C. Slaughter,
the cashier of the Mercantile, dictated a letter to the
Harriman which was dated at Pueblo and written on the
letterhead of the Mercantile Bank, purporting to be from
W. B. Slaughter, whose signature was affixed by a rubber
stamp. By this letter its assumed writer, after referring
to his ownership and control of the Silverton National,
stated his purpose to buy out the interest of Thatcher in
the First National Bank of Silverton and after doing so
to consolidate the two banks, and requested a loan of
$30,000 to enable him to .accomplish the purpose. It
was stated that it was proposed to evidence the loan by
a note at sixty days, to be signed by the writer, W. B.
Slaughter, and by his son C. C. Slaughter, if the bank so
desired, and to secure the note by the pledge of 500 shares
of the Mercantile and 400 shares of the First National of
Silverton. The Harriman Bank received this letter on
the first of February and at once telegraphed W. B.
Slaughter, president of the Mercantile Bank at Pueblo,

8

O(O'TOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the (.tnirl.

249 I'. S.

that,whenever desired, the Harrin Nwould be willing to
imake the loan, as requested. On the same day the banlk
wrote a letter to W. B. Slaughter, president at Pueblo,
but marked it personal, repeating and confirming the
telegram, and inclosing a blank form of collateral note
to be executed and sent to the bank with the collateral
when the money was desired.
The telegram of the first' of February announcing the
willingness of the Harriman Bank to make the loan having
come into the hands of C. C. Slaughter on the day it was
sent, he ordered a seal to be made which he said was intended as the seal of the First National Bank of Silverton,
and on the fifth of February bought from a printer blank
forms of certificates of stock. On the next day, Saturday
the 6th, purporting to act as agent of W. B. Slaughter,
C. C. Slaughter bought from Thatcher his interest in the
First National of Silverton, and gave a check in the name
of W. B. Slaughter and as his representative, on the
Mercantile National, for $35,000 in part .payment. On
Sunday, February 7th, C. C. Slaughter caused a letter
to be prepared falsely purporting to be written and signed
by W. B. Slaughter, acknowledging the receipt of the
telegram sent by the Harriman Bank on the first and
asking that the loan be consummated. In this letter
there was returned the collateral note which the bank
had sent for execution, along with the promised collateral,
that is, certificates for 400 shares of the First National of
Silverton and 500 shares of the Mercantile at Pueblo. The
signature of W. B. Slaughter to the note was forged and
the collaterals were also forged, the first, the certificates
of the Silverton Bank stock, because they were fabricated
by the use of the printed certificates and seal which had
been acquired a few days before and described shares
which had no existence, and the second, the Mercantile
Bank stock, because, although the certificates represented
stock standing in the name of W. B. Slaughter on the

HARRIMAN NAT'I BANK ,,. SELDOMRIDGE.

9

Opinion of the Court.

books of' that bank, the powers of attorney purporting to
have been given by W. B. Slaughter to enable them to be
transferred to the Harriman Bank, were forged.
To meet the check for $35,000 given on Saturday for the
Thatcher purchase, on Monday morning, February 8th,
C. C. Slaughter made out a deposit slip to show the deposit by W. B. Slaughter of a check on the Harriman
National for $30,000, although no such check was in fact
deposited; and on that day the check in favor of Thatcher
for $35,000 was paid and debited by the Mercantile to
W. B. Slaughter's account. The letter of the seventh
sending the note to the Harriman reached that bank on
the tenth and, complying with the request it contained,
a credit in favor of W. B. Slaughter for $30,000, the
amount covered by the loan, was entered by the Harriman
on its books.
On the seventeenth of February the Mercantile Bank
overdrew its account in the Harriman to the extent of
$8,000, which that bank honored. It, however, telegraphed the Mercantile, calling attention to the overdraft
and asked whether a remittance to cover it had been
made. The telegram, moreover, referred to the $30,000
credit in favor of W. B. Slaughter and asked whether
possibly it was intended that the amount of the loan
credit should be placed to the account of the bank. In
reply, C. C. Slaughter dictated a telegram in the name of
the Mercantile Bank instructing that the amount of the
credit of W. B. Slaughter be transferred to the credit of
the Mercantile. On the receipt of this telegram the Harriman made the necessary bookkeeping entries to transfer
the credit of $30,000 from the account of W. B. Slaughter
to that of the Mercantile National Bank. On the next
day, the eighiteenth, howcver; the Harriman wrote W. B.
Slaughter, Mercantile National Bank, Pueblo, informing
him of the instructionns they had received from C. C.
Slaughter and what they had done under them, and ask-

()('T)BII

TERMI,

1918.

Opinion of the Court,.

249. U. S.

ing the former's approval. This letter was replied to on
February 22d by C. C. Slaughter confirming his previous
telegram and saying that the original intention was that
the money borrowed should go to the credit of the Mercantile Bank for the use of W. B. Slaughter.
Thus things stood until the twenty-third of March,
when the Harriman received a telegram from W. B.
Slaughter, president of the Mercantile Bank, telling them
to cancel all authority of C. C. Slaughter to act as an
officer of the Mercantile because he had resigned. The
Harriman thereupon telegraphed and wrote W. B.
Slaughter, informing him of what had transpired on the
subject of the credit for the loan under the note and its
transfer, and saying that as he had given no personal instructions on the subject, they had made bookkeeping
entries taking the $30,000 out of the account of the Mercantile so as to hold it for a full understanding of the situation; and when, a few days later, the Harriman learned
of the failure of the Mercantile, such entries were made
as to cancel the loan without diminishing or changing the
credits which otherwise existed in favor of the Mercantile.
Subsequently W. B. Slaughter notified the Harriman
that he had never applied for the loan in question, or
signed the note which evidenced it, and denied all liability.
The appointment of the Receiver and the bringing of the
suit which we have stated at the outset followed in due
season.
Passing the fact that both parties to the loan agreement,
the Harriman Bank on the one side and W. B. Slaughter
on the other, insist, although for different reasons, that
the loan agreement has no existence, there nevertheless
can be no room for dispute that such contract, by the
failure to comply with its conditions and by the fraud
and forgery committed concerning the collaterals as between the parties to it and those in privity, was rightly
canceled and can be the source of no obligation against

HARRIMAN NAT'I, BANK.v. SELDOMRIDGE.
1.

II

Opinion of the Court.

the Harriman Bank. The right of the Mercantile Bank
as here asserted, if it has any existence, must rest, therefore, not in the loan agreement, but on some condition
or consideration extraneous to that contract creating as
against the Harriman and in favor of the Mercantile the
duty to pay the amount which both the courts below
awarded.
No semblance of ground, however, supporting that view
results from the undisputed facts which we have stated
unless it can be sustained from two considerations: (1) the
payment which was made by the Mercantile on February 8th of the check purporting to be drawn by W. B.
Slaughter in favor of Thatcher and the making by C. C.
Slaughter on the eighth of the fraudulent and false deposit slip purporting to show the deposit on that day by
W. B. Slaughter of a check drawn by him on the Harriman for $30,000; and (2) the bookkeeping entries which
were made by the Harriman on the eighteenth transferring
the credit for the amount of the agreed loan from the
account of W. B. Slaughter to that of the Mercantile
Bank. But a moment's thought demonstrates that the
circumstances referred to cannot possibly sustain the conclusions stated. This is true as to the first because both
the payment of the check by the Mercantile and the making of the false deposit slip took place before the Harriman
had even received the collateral note or made any entry
on its books concerning the same; and the second because
the mere bookkeeping entry made by the Harriman of
credit to the Mercantile, in the very nature of things, was
incapable alone of conferring rights on the Mercantile to
which it was not otherwise entitled, especially in the absence of all consideration moving from the Mercantile to
the Harriman and the non-existence of any condition
upon which to base even the pretext of estoppel in favor
of the Mercantile as against the Harriman resVlting from
action taken by the former upon the faith of the book-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

2.0 11. S.

keeping credit. Indeed, when the reasoning upon wli(h
the relief below was awarded is considered, and the arguments pressed at bar sustaining that result are veighcd,
they all at last come to the assumption that by some tindisclosed process the Mercantile Bank was entitled to
enforce as against the Harriman the contract for the loan
agreement made with W. B. Slaughter, without the duty
to comply with the obligations of that contract, and therefore became possessed of the power to enforce the contract
against the Harriman despite the fraud and forgery practiced upon the Harriman in the attempt which was made
to probiure the benefits of the loan agreement.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and that of the District Court must be and they
are treverspd, and the case be remanded to the District
Court with instructions, that after setting aside its judgment, it take such further proceydings,,as may be in conformity with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

BUTTE & SUPERIOR COPPER COMPANY, LIMITED, v. CLARK-MONTANA REALTY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 598.

Argued January 10, 13, 1919.-Decided March 3,

919.

li a suit brought in the District Court to determine extralateral rights
.between patented mining claims, the complaint averred that the
construction and application of §§ 2322-2332 of the lRevised Statutes were inVolved, set up the discovery, location and patent of
plaintiffs' claim, and, to meet a defect of the location notice under
the state law, averred a~tual, open, exclusive and uninterrupted
possession and working of the plaintiffs' claim for more than five

