UNITED STATES v, SHERIDAN.

379

Statement of the Cae.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

0
No. 53. Argued November 12, 13, 1946.-Decided December 23,
1946.
1. A person who cashes in one State a forged check drawn on a bank

in another State, knowing it to have been forged and that it would
be forwarded across state lines to the drawee bank, and the check
actually being so forwarded, is guilty of a violation of § 3 of the
National Stolen Property Act, which forbids any person to "cause
to be transported in interstate . . .commerce" any forged check
"with unlawful or fraudulent intent." Kann v. United States, 323
U. S. 88, distinguished. Pp. 381-391.
2. Proof. that a defendant cashed certain checks, receiving cash, goods
or services, that they were drawn on a bank in another State, that
they were forwarded to the drawee bank for payment, that they
purported to be signed by an agent of the Government, that the
Government had no such agent, and that the checks were returned
unpaid and marked "no account," held sufficient to sustain a conviction for fraudulently causing the transportation in interstate
commerce of forged checks, knowing them to have been forged,
in violation of § 3 of the National Stolen Property Act. Pp.
391-392.
3. Since the Circuit Court of Appeals, having reversed the conviction
on other grounds, did not pass upon respondent's contention that
certain evidence was inadmissible, the case is remandedfor consideration of that question. Pp. 391-393.
4. The record contains neither the instructions given nor the rulings
on instructions requested. In the circumstances of this case, taking
any corrective action in order to obtain a complete record may be
left to the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the
remand. Pp. 392-393.
152 F. 2d 57, reversed.

Respondent was convicted of a violation of § 3 of the
National Stolen Property Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 152 F. 2d 57. This Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 829. Reversed, p. 393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Leon Ulman argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General MiGrath,
John R, Benney, Robert S. Erdahl and Sheldon E.
Berntein.
John H. Pickeringargued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Sheridan was indicted oh three counts for having violated § 3 of the National Stolen Property Act, as amended,
48 Stat. 794.53 Stat. 1178,18 U. S. C. §§ 413-419. A jury
found him guilty on all counts.' On the authority of
Kann v. United States, 323 U. S. 88, the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the conviction.
152 F. 2d 57. Because of doubt as to the applicability of
the Kann case, we granted certiorari.' 328 U. S. 829.
Each count charged that Sheridan. with fraudulent intent, caused the transportation in interstate commerce of
a specified forged check, knowing it to have been forged.
The proof 3 offered to support these counts showed that
on July 19, 1943, in Jackson, Michigan, Sheridan cashed
three checks, receiving for them either cash or cash and
hotel service or goods. Two, v'hich were made the basis

IThe record states that respondent "having been fully informed of
his constitutionai right to counsel, and having been a~ked whether he
desired counsel assigned, . . . stated he did not desire the assistance
of counsel."
2

Since certiorari was granted Clarke v. Sanford, 156 F. 2d 115, has

been decided by the Fifth Circuit. It appears to be in conflict with
the case at bar. See also Tolle v. Sanford, 58 F. Supp. 695:
3The procee(lings at trial were not stenographically reported.
Hence the parties prepared a statement of evidence from memory and
from notes made during the course of the trial, and stipulated that it
"substantially sets forth the testimony and evidence" presented by
the Government. Upon approval of the District Court, the statement
was made part of the record.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

of counts one and two, were drawn on a bank in Cape

Girardeau, Missouri, were payable to the order of "P. H. D.
Sheridan," and purported to be drawn by "U. S. E. F. C.
14A A. J. Davis, Commissioner." As will be seen, it is
not necessary to consider the third count, involving the
other check.
From the endorsements it was clear that each check had
been cashed by or deposited in banks at Jackson, Michigan. They forwarded the two checks drawn on the Missouri bank to it for payment. Both were marked "no
account" and returned unpaid to the forwarding bank.
An agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation testified
that his office had conducted an investigation in Washington, D. C., and that the United States Department of
Commerce had no agent "U. S. E. F. C. 14A," nor one
"A. J. Davis, Commissioner."
-Sheridan was sentenced to five years' imprisonment on
each count, the sentences to run concurrently. Hence, if
the conviction on any is valid, it is unnecessary to consider
the convictions on the other two. Hirabayashiv. United
States, 320 U. S. 81, 85; Pinkerton v. United States, 328
U. S. 640, 641, n. 1. Accordingly, for the purposes of this
decision it may be taken that only the convictions on
4
counts one and two are in issue.
I.

The pertinent part of amended § 3 is sit out in the
margin.' Whether or not Sheridan's situation is within
4Count two is identical in effect with count one for the purposes of
the argument made here. Count 3, however, involves a check signed
by respondent in his own name as maker, and the Government-appar-

ently of the view that such a check is not "altered" or "counterfeited"-states: "It is not clear that such a check is falsely made or
forged within the general law."

3The pertinent text of § 3 is as follows: "Whoever shall transport
or cause to be transported in interstate or foreign commerce any goods

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

the intended coverage depends upon the answer to be given
to two questions, namely: (1) Did he cause to be transported in interstate commerce any forged security; ' (2) if
so, did he do this "with unlawful or fraudulent intent"?
It is in these respects that the section's meaning must
be determined.
It is .not questioned that the checks were "securities,"
that they were "forged," or that they were transported
in interstate commerce.! It is urged, however, that Sheridan did not "cause" the transportation, since his objective was attained when he cashed the checks and what
happened to them later was of no consequence to him or
his plan. Hence it is concluded that he can be said to
have "caused" the transportation only in the sense that it
would not have occurred if he had not cashed the checks.
This "but for" relation is considered insufficient since the
statute is thought not simply to forbid use of interstate
wares, or merchandise, securities, or money, of the value of $5,000 or
more theretofore stolen, feloniously converted, or taken feloniously
by fraud or with intent to steal or purloin, knowing the same to have
been so stolen, feloniously converted, or taken, or whoever with unlawful or fraudulent intent shall transport or cause to be transported in
interstate or foreign commerce any falsely made. forged, altered, or
counterfeited securities, knowing the same to have been falsely made,
forged, altered, or counterfeited, or whoever with unlawful or fraudulent intent shall transport, or cause to be transported in interstate or
foreign commerce, any bed piece, bed plate, roll, plate, die, seal, stone,
type, or other tool, implement, or thing used or fitted to be used in
falsely making, forging, altering, or counterfeiting any security, or
any part thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than ten years, or
both .

. . ."

48 Stat. 794, 795, as amended by 53 Stat. 1178.

(Emphasis added.)
6The Act, § 2 (b), defines the term "securities" as including
checks.
The sufficiency of the evidence to prove the fact of forgery is challenged, cf. Part III, but for the purposes of the principal contentions,
it is conceded arguendo.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

commerce for transportation of forged securities without
more, but to outlaw such use only when it contributes to
or is an essential part of carrying out the intended specific
fraud.
The second contention, though stated differently, comes
substantially to the same thing. It is that, upon the
assumption Sheridan may be held to have "caused" the
transportation, still he did not do so with the requisite
"unlawful or fraudulent intent," namely, to aid in
completing the fraud. These views are bolstered by
strong reliance on the Kann decision.
The Government answers with essentially two arguments. One is drawn primarily from the embodiment of
amended § 3 in the National Stolen Property Act. It is
shortly that the offense takes color and character from
the other offenses with which it is associated in the
context of § 3. Broadly, therefore, the Government says
that the section as amended excludes forged securities
from interstate transportation just as it does stolen goods,
money or securities, counterfeited securities and counterfeiting tools; or, for that matter, just as diseased cattle,
lottery tickets, adulterated foods, etc., are excluded under
various statutes related to the National Stolen Property
Act.' More narrowly the Government argues that the
8

See Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary on H. R.
10287, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. 2528, 70th Cong., 2d Sess.; H.
Rep.. 1462, 73d Cong., 2d Sesq.; S. Rep. 538, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.;
H. Rep. 1599, 73d Cong., 2d Se&-.; H. Rep. 422, 76th ( )ng., 1st Sess.;
S. Rep. 674, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.
See note 5 for pertinent text of § 3.
9 The National Stolen Property Act is said to be modeled after the
National 'Motor Vehicle Theft Act, 41 Stat. 324. H. Rep. 2528, 70th

Cong., 2d Seas., 4; H. Rep. 1462, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 2.
See also the Animal Industry Act of 1884, 23 Stat. 31; the Act for
the Suppression of Lottery Traffic of 1895, 28 Stat. 963; the Pure
Food and Drug Act of 1906, 34 Stat. 768; the White Slave Traffic Act
of 1910, 36 Stait. 825; the Webb-Kenyon Act of 1913, 37 Stat. 699.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

transportation here necessarily aided or contributed to the
perpetration of the fraud, if not by enabling respondent
to secure possession originally of its fruits, then by giving
him the necessary interval to make his escape and thus
to avoid either prosecution or restitution of the amount
which early detection would make probable.
As an entirely fresh matter, we should have difficulty in
avoiding the force of the Government's views. The
setting of the offense in amended § 3, together with the
complete absence of anything in the legislative history to
indicae that causing interstate transportation of forged
securities was designed to be treated differently from
causing the transportation of stolen goods, counterfeited
securities, counterfeiting tools, etc., indicates plainly that
transporting all these articles is to be treated in the same
manner and, moreover, not in the limited sense for wlich
respondent argues.
Congress had in mind preventing further frauds or the
completion of frauds partially executed. But it also contemplated coming to the aid of the states in detecting and'
punishing criminals whose offenses are complete under
state law, but who utilize the'channels of interstate commerce to make a successful getaway and thus make the
state's detecting and punitive processes impotent." This
was indeed' one of the most effective ways of preventing
further frauds as well as irrevocable completion of partially executed ones. In the light of this purpose, we do
not believe that Congress intended to restrict the pro10 See H. Rep. 2528, 70th Cong., 2d Sess., 2: "Most of the States

have laws covering the underlying principle of this proposed legislation,
but it must be remembered that the jurisdiction of the State court
does not reach into all of the States, especially when the matter of
producing witnesses and bringing to the court the proof is concerned."
See also Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary on H. R.
10287, supra note 8, passim.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of thb Court.

hibited transportation of stolen goods, securities and
money, or of counterfeited securities and counterfeiting
tools. to situations where it would be effective to complete
a specific fraud, in the sense of enabling the defrauder to
secure possession initially of what he seeks. The intent
was more general.
It is true that amended s 3 forbids the interstate transportation of forged and counterfeited securities, and forging and counterfeiting tools. "with unlawful or fraudulent intent." while the earlier-proscribed transportation
of stolen goods, securities and money is not required in
terms to be done with such an intent, but only with knowledge that they have been stolen. This difference would
seem to be entirely procedural, not substantive in character." But, in any event, it is not controlling here. For the
question remains whether the Kann. case requires us to
hold that "with unlawful or fraudulent intent" must be
taken" as restricting the forbidden transportation to cases
where that element aids in originally securing the fruits
of the fraud.
iOne who knowingly t.mnsports" stolen goods would do so for one

of three sorts of objects, namnely: (Ii to diSpoe of them or use them
unlawfully; (2) to aid in concealing the theft, thus avoiding prosecution for him-4elf or another; or (3) for some purpose wholly innocent,
such as to turn them over to the police or the rightful owner.
In the first two instances there would be inherent in the bct "unlawful intent" or "fraudulent intent," though proof of this might not be
required apart from the proof of knuowledge and absence of any showing of innoeent purpose. Congress obviously did not intend to make
criminal stich an instance as the third. However, proof of the innocent
intent might be required as matter of defense, the other.elements being
made out. In other wqrds, it may wel, be doubted that adding the
requirement "'with unlawful or fraudulent intent" in the amended
part of the. section added ani'thing to twe substantive crime; for its
effect is apparently only to require the state to allege and prove the
unlawful or fraudulent intent, rather than to require the defendant
.to allege and prove his innocent purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

II.
That case held that one alleged to be party to a fraudulent scheme could not be convicted under § 215 of the
Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 338, for using the mails "for
the purpose of executing such scheme," by proving that he
or his associates cashed checks, receiving the proceeds at
forwarding banks, which in turn mailed them to the
drawee banks for collection, the checks being neither
forged nor dishonored by the banks on which they were
drawn. We think the case is distinguishable both on the
statutes applied and on the facts. In order that comparison may be exact, we set forth the applicable
wording of the two sections.
Section 215 of the Criminal Code, involved in the Kann
case, is as follows: "Whoever, having devised . . . any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, . . . shall, for the purpose of
executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do,
place, or cause to be placed, any letter . . . in any post
office, or . . . cause to be delivered by mail according to
the direction thereon . . . any such letter, . . . shall be
fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than
five years, or both." (Emphasis added.)
Amended § 3 of the Stolen Property Act reads pertinently, except for its important contextual coloring: 12
"... whoever with unlawful or fraudulent intent shall
transport or cause to be transported in interstate . . .
commerce any falsely made, forged, altered, or counterfeited securities, knowing the same to have been falsely
made, forged, altered, or counterfeited, . . . shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than ten years, orboth . . ." (Emphasis added.)
12

See note 5.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

Under § 215 the express requirement is that the mailing
or causing to be delivered by mail shall be "for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so
to do." There is no such explicit requirement in amended
§ 3. The wording there is that the interstate transportation shall be done "with unlawful or fraudulent intent."
This different wording and the difference in the contextual
settings of the proscriptions have meaning, we think, to
make their effects distinct. We emphasize at the outset
that amended § 3 is part of a scheme of federal-state cooperation in apprehending and punishing criminals, while
§ 215 deals only with a distinctly federal crime.
The language of amended § 3 is broader and less
specific than that of § 215. The word "unlawful" in the
former is not to be ignored. Nor is it to be rendered
meaningless by identifying it with "fraudulent," more
especially if the latter is to be endowed with the restrictive connotation, not expressly stated, of "for the purpose
of executing such scheme." The word "unlawful" has no
such narrow meaning. Literally it is broad enough to include any unlawful purpose, such as to aid in concealing
what has been done and thus in avoiding prosecution and
restoration.
Moreover, in the Kann setting, the quoted wording now
sought to be read into amended § 3 was restricted to significance in relation to getting the proceeds of the checks
irrevocably, and the subsequent mailing was held to have
no significant influence in producing that effect or, therefore, upon completing the scheme; 13 or, moreover, toward
concealing the crime.
Whether or not in those circumstances the mailing had
concealing effects, the situation in this respect was very
different from the one now presented. The checks there
13 It was as to this conclusion that four members of the Court

dissented. 323 U. S.at 95.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

were not forged or altered. Here they were. There the
checks were honored by the drawees after the mailing.
Here they were dishonored after the transportation.
There the payee-indorsers knew they would not be. In
that case the mailing was much less likely to produce disclosure *thanwas the transportation in this one. Accordingly the irrevocable completion of the scheme was much
less affected by the mailing than it was by the transportation here. So also with any concealing effect of the transportation and, therefore, with any unlawful or fraudulent
intent concerning it.
Indeed the Kann opinion recognized that in other circumstances a different result might be called for, even
under the explicit and restricted purposive requirement of
§ 215. For in putting aside the cases sustaining convictions where use of the mails was "a means of concealment so that further frauds which are part of the
scheme may be perpetrated," 14 the Court said: "In these
the mailing has ordinarily had a much closer relation to
further fraudulent conduct than has the mere clearing of
a check, although it is conceivable that this alone, in some
settings, would be enough." 323 U. S. at 95.
The. Court was not dealing with the transmission of a
forged check, certain to be dishonored after the mailing or
transportation, or therefore with a situation in which. the
forbidden transmission was either so likely to result in disclosure of the crime or so obviously intended to provide
an interval for escape before that disclosure would be
made.15 We cannot say that in circumstances such as are
now here the same result would have been reached in applying § 215, in view of these differences and the express
.14
United States v. Lowe, 115 F. 2d 596; Dunham v. United States,
125 F. 2d 895; United States v. Riedel. 126 F. 2d 81.
15The discovery of the scheme resulted from an examination of the
allegedly defrauded corporation's books by a Government examiner,

not as here from return of the checks unpaid by the forwarding bank.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

reservation made for other situations involving greater
possibilities for concealment.
-This is enough to distinguish the Kann case. But we
think, in addition, we would be altogether unjustified to
rewrite the words "with unlawful or fraudulent intent"
to mean "for the purpose of executing such scheme or
artifice" in the sense of aiding to secure possession of the
proceeds of the checks irrevocably, which was the meaning given that phrase in the Kann decision. Apart from
the absence here of irrevocability in the legal sense, to do
this would be to disregard what we think was Congress'
clear purpose to make amended. § 3, like the section in its
original form, a means of apprehension and of punishment substantially, though not strictly in the legal sense,
for past crimes of the sort specified in situations where
interstate commerce was used as a method of defeating
the state's exercise of those functions.
We cannot thus tear the transportation of forged checks
from its setting and give it the distinct status, with reference to intent, as compared" with the other forbidden
transportations, which we think would result from respondent's reading. In amending § 3 Coiigress was
extending the federal law enforcerient arm to reach primarily the larger dealers in forged and counterfeited
securities."6 Not only forged checks, but forged or counterfeited bonds and coupons, as well as other forms of
securities, and the instruments with which these are made,
were the target. The legislative history shows that the
purpose was to bring operators in these false securities into
substantially the same reach of federal power as applied
to others dealing in stolen goods, securities and money. 7
In one respect the object was to make their apprehension
'6 See the letter from the Attorney General to Senator Ashurst,
Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judicdary, set out in S. Rep.
674, 76th Cong.,• 1st Sess., 2..

17Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

and conviction more easy, for the $5,000 minimum in value
was intentionally omitted. The amendment was thus
an extension, not a contraction of the preexisting
provisions.
The purpose however was not to reach persons innocently, but knowingly, transporting the forbidden articles.
Hence it was necessary to introduce safeguarding language. This was done by inserting "with unlawful or
fraudulent intent." Broad as this was, it was sufficient
for the purpose of excluding innocent transportation. We
do not think it was also intended to safeguard the counterfeiter or professional forger, simply because the transportation alleged and proved does not aid him initially in
securing the possession of the proceeds of his fraudulent
dispositions. To.take this view would nullify much of the
amendment's intended effectiveness.
Nor can we treat forged checks differently from other
securities, either because they are forged or because the
forgery is done by "little fellows" who perhaps were not
the primary aim of the congressional fire. The statute
expressly includes checks.18 It makes no distinction
between large and small operators. There is no room for
implying such a distinction in view of the absence of the
$5,000 limitation with respect to the transportation of
forged checks. Whether or not. Congress had in mind
primarily such small scale transactions as Sheridan's,
his operation was covered literally and we think purposively. Had this not been intended, appropriate
exception could easily have been made.
If it is assumed that the evidence supports the conclusions on which the case has come here," Sheridan perpetrated three frauds, including two forgeries, in one day.
Forgery, thus repeated, is not amateurish, though the
18 See note 6.
19

See Part III.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

amounts obtained are small. Notoriously the crime done
once becomes habitual. And forgers are notoriously
itinerant. Drawing the check upon an out-of-state bank,
knowing it must be sent there for presentation, is an
obviously facile way to delay and often to defeat apprehension, conviction and restoration of the ill-gotten gain.
There are sound reasons therefore why Congress would
wish not to exclude such persons, among them the very
ease with which they may escape the state's grasp.
A word will dispose of the idea that Sheridan did not
"cause" the transportation. Certainly he knew the checks
would have to be sent to the Missouri bank for collection.
Given the proven forgery and uttering, no other conclusion
would be possible. Necessarily, too, it would follow he
intended the paying bank to send the checks there for that
purpose. He knew they must cross state lines to be presented. One who induces another to do exactly what he
intends, and does so by defrauding him, hardly can be
held not to "cause" what is so done. The Kann case itself
is authority for the Government on this point, in fact goes

farther than is necessary here. For, as respected the same
contention there advanced, the opinion said: ".

.

. we

think it a fair inference that those defendants who drew,
or those who cashed, the checks believed that the banks
which took them would mail them to the banks on which
they were drawn, and, assuming the petitioner participated in the scheme, their knowledge was his knowledge."
323 U. S. at 93. The statement was in answer to argument.that Kann had not "caused" the mailing.
III.

Since the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the conviction on all counts on its view that the Kann case was controlling, it did not discuss respondent's other contentions.
These are renewed here. They are, first, that the evidence
was insufficient to support the verdict; and, second, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

certain testimony was inadmissible, including that of the
federal agent to the effect that the Department of Commerce had no agency "U. S. E. F. C. 14A" nor one "A. J.
Davis, Commissioner." On the facts the two contentions
are closely related.Y
We express no opinion as to the admissibility of the evidence. It is desirable that the litigants and this Court,
if the case is again before us, have the benefit of the views
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. See United States v. Ballard, 322 U. S. 78, 88. However, with respect to the first
contention, upon the assumption that the record, as stipulated, correctly sets forth the evidence introduced by the
Government and also that all the evidence was admissible,
it follows from our discussion of the statute that the evidence was sufficient to send the case to the jury. The jury
properly could have inferred that respondent had forged
the checks in question; I that he therefore had knowledge
of their spurious character; and, furthermore, that the
checks were negotiated and caused to be transported with
unlawful or fraudulent intent.
However, counsel assigned here for respondent calls our
attention to the fact that the instructions given and the
rulings on instructions requested do not appear in the
record. He suggests that, if the cause should be remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings, it
would. be appropriate for us to suggest to that court in the
remand that it exercise its powers to secure a complete bill
of exceptions, including the instructions given and all pertinent rulings in connection therewith.
That course has been followed in unusual circumstances.
See Miller v. United States, 317 U. S. 192, 199-200; Hel.2

It is argued that excluding the evidence regarded as inadmissible

would render the remaining evidence insufficient.
n That is, the checks which forni the basis of counts 1 and 2. We
express no opinion concerning the check on which count 3 was based.

See note 4.

UNITED STATES v. SHERIDAN.
379

Opinion of the Court.

wig v.i United States, 328 U. S.820. Such circumstances
are presented on this record. Respondent defended himself at the trial. He did not have counsel on the appeal.
The case is here in forma pauperis, and it is stated in
his brief that "respondent is now confined in a Michigan
state prison, is without funds and is unable to employ
counsel of his own choice." Since the decision in Miller
v. United States, &upra,the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure have taken effect2 and expressly provide
that they shall govern all proceedings pending at the effective date "so far as just and practicable." I Rule 59.
Bills of exception are abolished.2 ' Since the record contains a statement of the evidence, apparently the only
serious deficiency is in the matters relating to the instructions, noted above. In these circumstances we think taking any corrective action, in this respect or otherwise, inthe interest of seeing that substantial justice is done, well
may be left to the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
that court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
THE CHIEF

JUSTICE

and Ma. JUSTICE DoUGLAs dissent.

18 U. S. C. following § 687, effective March 21, 1946.
In this case the indictment was filed on October 27, 1944; the
jury verdict and judgment were filed on November 30, 1944; the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was entered on November 19,
1945; and a Government petition for rehearing was denied on January
28, 1946. Certiorari was granted on 'May 13, 1946.
2
4 See Rule 39 (c) and the note prepared under the direction of the
Advisory Committee on Rules for Criminal Procedure. "The new rule
supersedes Rules VII, VIII, and IX of the Criminal Appeals Rules of
1933, 292 U. S. 661. One of the results of the change is the abolition
of bills of exceptions." S. Doe. 175, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., 62-63.
22

23

