BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
433

44i

Syllabus.

Appeals erred in holding that Texas courts would apply
it in this case. Application of the doctrine of paridelicto
in this proceeding, therefore, where the federal court has
jurisdiction by reason of diversity, would result in applying a rule of law in the federal courts different from the
rule we believe has been applicable in the state courts.
Such a result cannot be approved. Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed. It is
so ordered.
Reversed.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE SYSTEM ET AL. v. AGNEW ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 66. Argued December 10, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.
1. An order issued under § 30 of the Banking Act of 1933 by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System removing a
director of a national bank from office for continuing violations of
law after having been warned to desist is subject to judicial review;
and a district court is authorized to enjoin the removal if the Board
acts beyond the limits of its statutory authority. P. 444.
2. Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits, inter alia, any
employee of any partnership "primarily engaged" in the underwriting or distribution of securities from serving at the same time
as director of a member bank of the Federal Reserve System.
Respondents were directors of a member bank and employees of
a partnership which held itself out as being "Underwriters, Distributors . .. and Brokers" in securities, was actively getting what
business it could in the underwriting field, and one year ranked
9th among 94 leading investment bankers with respect to its total
participations in underwritings. Its gross income from the underwriting field ranged from 26% to 39%, and its gross income from
the brokerage business ranged from 40% to 47%, of its gross income

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

from all sources. About 15% of the total number of transactions
and of the total market value of the securities bought and sold
by it as broker or dealer were in the underwriting field. The
partnership did no business with the bank and respondents did only
a strictly commission business with the bank's customers. Held:
The partnership was "primarily engaged" in the underwriting and
distribution of securities within the meaning of § 32 of the Act and
its employees were disqualified from serving as directors of a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. Pp. 445-449.
(a) If the underwriting business of a firm is substantial, it is
"primarily engaged" in the underwriting business, though by any
quantitative test underwriting may not be its chief or principal
activity; and whether its underwriting business exceeds 50% of
its total business is irrelevant. Pp. 446-449.
(b) Section 32 being a preventive measure, the fact that respondents have been scrupulous in their relationship to the bank is
immaterial. P. 449.
3. Substantiality being the statutory guide, § 32 does not constitute
an unconstitutional delegation of authority to the Board, since the
limits of administrative action are sufficiently definite or ascertainable. P. 449.
153 F. 2d 785, reversed.

In a suit to review or enjoin the action of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System in removing
respondents from office as directors of a national bank on
the ground that they were employees of a firm "primarily
engaged" in underwriting within the meaning of § 32 of
the Banking Act of 1933, the District Court dismissed the
complaint. The United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia reversed. 153 F. 2d 785. This
Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 825. Reversed, p. 449.
1. Leonard Townsend argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Robert L. Stern and George B. Vest.
Hugh H. Obear argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.

3OARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
441

443

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case, here on certiorari to the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, presents important problems
under § 30 and § 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, 48 Stat.
162, 193, 194, as amended, 49 Stat. 684, 709, 12 U. S. C.
§§ 77, 78.
Section 30 of the Act provides that the Comptroller of
the Currency, whenever he is of the opinion that a director or officer of a national bank has violated any law relating to the bank, shall warn him to discontinue the violation
and, if the violation continues, may certify the facts to the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The
Board is granted power to order that the director or officer
be removed from office if it finds after notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard that he has continued to
violate the law.'
Section 32 of the Act prohibits, inter alia, any partner or
employee of any partnership "primarily engaged in the
issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution,
at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation,
of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities" from serving
at the same time as an officer, director, or employee of a
member bank.'
1Section 30 also provides:
"That such order and the findings of fact upon which it is based shall
not be made public or disclosed to anyone except the director or officer
involved and the directors of the bank involved, otherwise than in
connection with proceedings for a violation of this section. Any such
director or officer removed from office as herein provided who thereafter participates in any manner in the management of such bank
shall be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned for not more than
five years, or both, in the discretion of the court."
2 Not material here is an exception "in limited classes of cases in
which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may

'444

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Pursuant to the procedure outlined in § 30 the Board
ordered respondents removed from office as directors of the
Paterson National Bank on the ground that they were
employees of a firm "primarily engaged" in underwriting
within the meaning of § 32. Respondents brought suit
in the District Court for the District of Columbia to review
the action of the Board or to enjoin its action. The District Court dismissed the complaint. The Court of Appeals reversed by a divided vote, holding that the Board
exceeded its authority and that an injunction should issue.
153 F. 2d 785.
First. The Board contends that the removal orders of
the Board made under § 30 are not subject to judicial review in the absence of a charge of fraud. It relies on the
absence of an express right of review and on the nature of
the federal bank supervisory scheme of which § 30 is an
integral part. Cf. Adams v. Nagle, 303 U. S. 532; Switchmen's Union v. Mediation Board, 320 U. S. 297; Estep v.
United States, 327 U. S. 114. A majority of the Court,
however, is of the opinion that the determination of the
extent of the authority granted the Board to issue removal
orders under § 30 of the Act is subject to judicial review
and that the District Court is authorized to enjoin the
removal if the Board transcends its bounds and acts beyond
the limits of its statutory grant of authority. See American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S.
94; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 620; Stark
v. Wickard, 321 U. S. 288, 309-310. That being decided,
it seems plain that the claim to the office of director is
such a personal one as warrants judicial consideration of
the controversy. Cf. Columbia Broadcasting System v.
allow such service by general regulations when in the judgment of
the said Board it would not unduly influence the investment policies
of such member bank or the advice it gives its customers regarding
investments." § 32.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
441

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 316 U. S. 407; Stark v. Wickard, supra,
p. 305.
Second. We come then to the merits. Respondents for
a number of years have been directors of the Paterson
National Bank, a national banking association and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Since 1941 they have
been employed by Eastman, Dillon & Co., a partnership,
which holds itself out as being "Underwriters, Distributors,
Dealers and Brokers in Industrial, Railroad, Public Utility
and Municipal Securities." During the fiscal year ending
February 28, 1943, its gross income from the underwriting
field ' was 26 per cent of its gross income from all sources,
while its gross income from the brokerage business was 42
per cent of its gross income from all sources. The same
percentages for the fiscal year ending February 29, 1944,
were 32 per cent and 47 per cent respectively; and for the
period from March 1, 1944, to July 31, 1.944, 39 per cent
and 40 per cent respectively. Of the total number of transactions, as well as the total market value of the securities
bought and sold by the firm as broker and as dealer for
an indefinite period prior to September 20, 1943, about 15
per cent were in the underwriting field. The firm is active
in the underwriting field, getting what business it can. In
1943 it ranked ninth among 94 leading investment bankers
in the country with respect to its total participations in
underwritings of bonds. For a time during 1943 it ranked
first among the underwriters of the country. Apart from
municipals and rails, its participation in underwritings
during 1943 amounted to $14,657,000. Since October,
1941, respondents have done no business with the bank
other than a strictly commission business with its custom3The issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale or distribution, at
wholesale or retail or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds
or other similar securities. The firm does not deal in United States
Government bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ers. Nor has the firm done business with the bank since
the fall of 1941.
These are the essential facts found by the Board.
On the basis of these facts the Board concluded that during the times relevant here Eastman, Dillon & Co. was
"primarily engaged" in the underwriting business and that
respondents, being employees of the firm, were disqualified
from serving as directors of the bank.
The Court of Appeals concluded that when applied to
a single subject "primary" means first, chief, or principal;
that a firm is not "primarily engaged" in underwriting
when underwriting is not by any standard its chief or
principal business. Since this firm's underwriting business did not by any quantitative test exceed 50 per cent
of its total business, the court held that it was not "primarily engaged" in the underwriting business within the
meaning of §32 of the Act.
We take a different view. It is true that "primary"
when applied to a single subject often means first, chief,
or principal. But that is not always the case. For other
accepted and common meanings of "primarily" are "essentially" (Oxford English Dictionary) or "fundamentally"
(Webster's New International). An activity or function
may be "primary" in that sense if it is substantial. If the
underwriting business of a firm is substantial, the firm is
engaged in the underwriting business in a primary way,
though by any quantitative test underwriting may not be
its chief or principal activity. On the facts in this record
we would find it hard to say that underwriting was not one
primary activity of the firm and brokerage another. If
"primarily" is not used in the sense we suggest, then the
firm is not "primarily engaged" in any line of 'business
though it specializes in at least two and does a substantial
amount of each. One might as well say that a professional
man is not "primarily engaged" in nis profession though he
holds himself out to serve all comers and devotes substan-

BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
441

Opinion of the Court.

tial time to the practice but makes the greater share of his
income on the stock market.
That is the construction given the Act by the Board.
And it is, we think, not only permissible but also more
consonant with the legislative purpose than the construction which the Court of Appeals adopted. Firms which
do underwriting also engage in numerous other activities.
The Board indeed observed that, if one was not "primarily
engaged" in underwriting unless by some quantitative test
it was his principal activity, then § 32 would apply to no
one. Moreover, the evil at which the section was aimed is
not one likely to emerge only when the firm with which
a bank director is connected has an underwriting business
which exceeds 50 per cent of its total business. Section 32
is directed to the probability or likelihood, based on the
experience of the 1920's, that a bank director interested in
the underwriting business may use his influence in the
bink to involve it or its customers in securities which his
underwriting house has in its portfolio or has committed
itself to take. That likelihood or probability does not
depend on whether the firm's underwriting business exceeds 50 per cent of its total business.. It might, of course,
exist whatever the proportion of the underwriting business.
But Congress did not go the whole way; it drew the line
where the need was thought to be the greatest. And the
line between substantial and unsubstantial seems to us
to be the one indicated by the words "primarily
engaged."
There is other intrinsic evidence in the Banking Act of
1933 to support our conclusion. Section 20 of the Act
outlaws affiliation' of a member bank with an organization "engaged principally" in the underwriting business.
4 Defined in § 2 (b) as direct or indirect ownership or control of
more than 50 per cent of the voting stock of the organization in question, common ownership or control of 50 per cent or more of such
voting stock, or a majority of common directors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the

Court.

329 U. S.

Section 19 provides control over bank holding companies.
In order to vote its stock in controlled banks a bank holding company must show that it does not own, control, or
have any interest in, and is not participating in the management or direction of any organization "engaged principally" in the underwriting business. On the other
hand, when Congress came to deal with the practice of
underwriters taking checking deposits, it used language
different from what it used either in §§ 19 and 20 on the
one hand or in § 32 on the other. By § 21 it prohibited
any organization "engaged" in the underwriting business
"to engage at the same time to any extent whatever" in the
business of receiving checking deposits. Thus within the
same Act we find Congress dealing with several types of
underwriting firms-those "engaged" in underwriting,
those "primarily engaged" in underwriting, those "engaged
principally" in underwriting. The inference seems rea-.
sonable to us that Congress by the words it chose marked a
distinction which we should not obliterate by reading
"primarily" to mean "principally."
The Court of Appeals laid some stress on the fact that
Congress did not abolish'the bank affiliate system but only
those underwriter affiliates which were under the control
of a member bank or which were under a common control
with it.' Section 20. Since Congress made majority
control critical under § 20, it was thought that under § 32
a firm was not "primarily engaged" in underwriting unless underwriting constituted a majority of its business.
But the two situations are not comparable. In § 32 Congress was not dealing with the problem of control of underwriters by banks or vice versa. The prohibited nexus
is in no way dependent on the presence or absence
of control, nor would it be made so even if "primarily
engaged" in underwriting were construed to mean princi5 See note 4, supra.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
441

RUTLEDGE,

449

J., concurring.

pally engaged in that business. Section 32 was designed, as
we have said, to remove tempting opportunities from the
management and personnel of member banks. In no realistic sense do those opportunities disappear merely because the underwriting activities of the outside firm with
which the officer, director, or employee is connected happens to fall below.51 per cent. Fifty-one per cent, which
is relevant in terms of control, is irrelevant here. The
fact then that Congress did not abolish underwriter affiliates serves as no guide in determining whether "primarily
engaged" in underwriting as used in § 32 means principally
engaged or substantially engaged in that business.
Siction 32 is not concerned, of course, with any showing that the director in question has in fact been derelict
in his'duties or has in any way breached his fiduciary obligation to the bank. It is a preventive or prophylactic
measure. The fact that respondents have been scrupulous
in their relationships to the bank is therefore immaterial.
There is a suggestion that if "primarily" does not
mean principally but merely connotes substantiality,
§ 32 constitutes an unlawful delegation of authority to
the Board. But we think it plain under our decisions
that if substantiality is the statutory guide, the limits
of administrative action are sufficiently definite or ascertainable so as to survive challenge on the grounds of
unconstitutionality. Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v.
Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 397-400; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator, 312 U. S. 126, 142-146; Yakus v. United
States, 321 U. S. 414, 424-428; Bowles v. Willingham, 321
U. S. 503, 512-516.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

If the question presented on the merits is reviewable
judicially, in my opinion it is only for abuse of discretion

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

by the Board of Governors. Not only because Congress
has committed the system's operation to their hands, but
also because the system itself is a highly specialized and
technical one, requiring expert and coordinated management in all its phases, I think their judgment should be
conclusive upon any matter which, like this one, is open
to reasQnable difference of opinion. Their specialized experience gives them an advantage judges cannot possibly
have, not only in dealing with the problems raised for their
discretion by the system's working, but also in ascertaining
the meaning Congress had in mind in prescribing the
standards by which they should administer it. Accordingly their judgment in such matters should be overturned
only where there is no reasonable basis to sustain it or
where they exercise it in a manner which clearly exceeds
their statutory authority.
In this case I cannot say that either of these things has
occurred. The Board made its determination after the
required statutory hearing on notice. 48 Stat. 162, 193,
12 U. S. C. § 77. The consideration given was full and
thorough, including detailed findings of fact and conclusions of law, followed by a carefully written opinion.' The
Board concluded that "primarily" in § 32 does not mean
"first in volume in comparison with any other business or
businesses in which it [the employer] engages," 2 but
'The opinion isnot reported, pursuant to the statutory prohibition,
12 U. S.C.§ 77, which is effective except in connection with proceedings
for enforcement.
2 Under such a view, in cases involving different facts the question
would become judicial whether "primarily" means more than half of
(1) the gross volume of business done; (2) the gross profit; (3) the
net profit, where some but not all these factors as relating to one phase
of the total activities carried on amounts to more than half the gross.

Such discriminations would seem to be clearly within the Board's
power to determine in the first instance. If so, it is difficult to see
why that power does not include the determination made here.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
441

451

RTLEDGE, J., concurring.

means rather as "a matter of primary importance," like
"primary" colors or planets or as the word is used in the
phrase "the primary causes of a war." This view it found
not only supported by accepted dictionary meaning but
also in conformity with Congress' intent as established by
the legislative history. In a further ground which we
must take as reflecting its specialized experience, the Board,
stated: "To say that a securities firm ranking ninth among
the leading investment bankers of the country with respect
to its total participations in underwritings of bonds, and
for a period ranking first, should be held to be beyond the
scope of the statute is to say that Congress enacted a
statute with the intention that it would apply to no one."
I cannot say that the Board's conclusion, in the light of
those groundings, is wanting either for warrant in law or
for reasonable basis in fact. The considerations stated in
the Court's opinion and in the dissenting opinion filed in
the Court of Appeals, 153 F. 2d 785, 795, as well as by the
Board itself, confirm this view. I think it important, not
only for this case but for like ones which may arise in the
future, perhaps as a result of this decision, to make clear
that my concurrence in the Court's disposition of the case
is based upon the ground I have set forth, and not upon
independent judicial determination of the question presented on the merits. I do not think this Court or any
other should undertake to reconsider, as an independent
judgment, the Board's determination upon that question
or similar ones likely to arise, if the Board was not without
basis in fact for its judgment and does not clearly transgress a statutory mandate. More than has been shown
here would be required to cause me to believe that the
Board has exceeded its power in either respect.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion.

