OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

voluntarily entered into the negotiations conducted at San
'Francisco and Seattle and at no time challenged the propriety of this practice. Thus if we assume with respondents that this issue is properly presented- for consideration,
we conclude that under the circumstances of this ease the
dispute was "at the factory, establishment, or other
premises" in the sense intended by the Territorial
Legislature.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is affirmed insofar as it holds that the
statutory eight-week period of disqualification is inapplicable to the individual respondents employed by the
Alaska S4lmon Company in 1939. In all other particulars, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and the case remanded to the District Court
with instructions to remand for further proceedings pursuant to this opinion.

VANSTON BONDHOLDERS PROTECTIVE

COMMITTEE v. GREEN
NO. 4 2.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 22, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
In a reorganization proceeding under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy
Act, claim was made under a covenant in a first mortgage indenture
for interest on interest which had accrued after payments by the
debtor corporation had been suspended by a court order in an equity
receivership, which was succeeded by a reorganization proceeding
under § 77B and later by the Chapter X proceeding. The corporation was insolvent; its assets were sufficient to pay the first mortgage bondholders in full, including the interest on interest; but to
*Together with No. 43, Vanston Bondholders Protective Committee
v. Early et al.; No. 44, Vanhorn Bondholders Protective Committee v.
Green et al.; and No. 45, Vanhorn Bondholders Protective Committee
v. Early et al., on certiorari to the same court.

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

Syllabus.

allow payment of the interest on interest would greatly reduce the
share of the subordinate creditors in the reorganized corporation.
Held:
1. Since the interest was left unpaid by order of the court, imposition of interest on that unpaid interest would be inequitable. P. 165.
2. It is not necessary for this Court to pass on the question ofpossible conflicts between the laws of different States having some
interest in the indenture transaction or upon the validity of the
provision for the payment of interest on interest under applicable
state law; because a bankruptcy court, in determining what claims
are allowable and how a debtor's assets shall be distributed, does
not apply the law of the State where it sits, but administers and
enforces the Bankruptcy Act in accordance with equitable principles.
P. 162.
3. The general rule in bankruptcy and in federal equity receivership has long been that interest on the debtor's obligations ceases
to accrue at the beginning of proceedings, since exaction of interest
where power of a debtor to pay was suspended by law would be
inequitable. P. 163.
4. Simple interest on secured claims accruing' after the petition
was filed is denied unless the security is worth more than the sum
of principal and interest due. P. 164.
5. To allow a secured creditor interest where his security is worth
less than the value of his debt would be inequitable to unsecured
creditors. P. 164.
6. But, where an estate is ample to pay all creditors and to pay
interest even after the petition was filed, equitable considerations
permit payment of this additional interest to the secured creditor
rather than to the debtor. P. 164.
7. The touchstone of each decision on allowance of interest in
bankruptcy, receivership and reorganization has been a balance
of equities between creditor and creditor or between creditors and
thedebtor. P. 165.
8. That this proceeding has moved from equity receivership
through § 77B to Chapter X in the wake of statutory change does
not make these equitable considerations inapplicable. P. 165.
9. It would not be consistent with equitable principles to enrich
the first mortgage bondholders at the expense of the subordinate
creditors because of a failure to pay when payment had been prohibited by ,a court order entered, for the joint beneftt of debtor,
creditors, and the public. Pp. 165-167.
151 F. 2d 470, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

A District Court appointed an equity receiver for a corporation and suspen'ded payment of its debts. The equity
receivership .was succeeded by reorganization proceedings
under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act and later by a Chapter X proceeding. The District Court held the first mortgage bondholders entitled to interest on interest accruing
after the receivership, on the theory that the validity of
the covenant therefor was determined by New York law
and that it was valid thereunder. Holding that New York
law prohibited covenants for payment of interest on interest, the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 151 F. 2d 470.
This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 774. Affirmed
on other grounds. P. 167.
George W. Jaques argued the cause for petitioner in Nos.
42 and 43. With'him on the brief were LeWright Browning and Rudolf B. Schlesinger.
Robert J. Bulkley argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner in Nos. 44 and 45.
Roger S. Foster argued the cause for the Securities &
Exchange Commission, respondent. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Philip Elman and
Alexander Cohen.
Chas. I. Dawson argued the cause for Early et al.,
respondents. With him on the brief was A. Shelby
Winstead.
Jay Raymond Levinson argued the cause for the Green
Committee et al., respondents. With him on the brief
was OscarS. Rosner.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
December 2, 1930, a Kentucky District Court appointed
an equity receiver of Inland Gas Corporation to take com-

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

Opinion of the Court.

plete and exdlusive control, possession, and custody of all
of Inland's properties, and enjoined Inland's officers from
paying its debts. At that time there was no interest unpaid on Inland's first mortgage bonds. February 1, 1931,
semiannual interest coupons fell due on these bonds. The
debtor could not pay; the court did not direct the receiver
to pay. The indenture trustee, acting under the terms
of the indenture, promptly declared the entire principal
due and payable despite the previous assumption of custody of the estate by the federal court. In 1935, the same
District Court approved a creditor's petition for reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, and at a subsequent date the reorganization was continued as a Chapter X proceeding.' The indenture provides for payment
of interest on unpaid interest. Inland is insolvent, but
its assets are sufficient to pay the first mortgage bondholders in full, including the interest on interest. Should
interest on interest be paid, however, subordinate creditors
would receive a greatly reduced share in the reorganized
corporation. These latter concede that the first mortgage bondholders should receive simple interest on theprincipal due them, but challenge their right to be paid
interest on interest' which fell due after the court took
charge of Inland, and which interest the Court, out of consideration for orderly and fair administration of the estate,
directed the receiver not to pay on the due date. It is this
controversy which we must "determine.
The first mortgage indenture document was written and
signed in New York, designated a New York ,bank as trus1 Section 77B was enacted June 7, 1934, 48 Stat. 912. The § 77B
petition in this case was filed while the estate continued in the equity
receivership. Section 77B was superseded by Chapter X, 52 Stat. 883,
11 U. S. C. § 501 et seq. Section 276 of Chapter X, 11 U. S. C. 676,
authorized continuance of the § 77B proceedings under Chapter X.
See Young v. Higbee Co., 324 U. S. 204,205, n. 1.
2The claims for interest on interest amount to some $500,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

tee, and provided for payment of the bonds and attached
interest coupons at the office of the trustee in New York
or, at the option of the bearer, at a bank in Chicago, Illinois. A group of investment bankers underwrote the
issue, sold the bonds to the public, and received a percentage of the proceeds and additional compensation for their
services. Inland was organized under the corporation
laws of Delaware., Its principal place of business was in
Kentucky, and the property mortgaged was located in that
state.
Under these circumstances the District Court was of the
opinion that it must allow the claim for interest on interest
if the indenture covenant was valid; that its validity must
be determined by the law of Ne~w York, because the indenture was signed and the bonds were payable there; and
that the covenant was valid there. Accordingly, the first
mortgage bondholders were held entitled to interest on
interest. Holding that New York prohibited covenants
for payment of interest on interest, the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 151 F. 2d 470. We granted certiorari
because of the importance of the questions raised.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought the bankruptcy
court must allow or disallow the claim for interest on interest according to whether the covenant to pay it was valid
or invalid as between the parties to that covenant. It
bonsidered the covenant invalid and therefore unenforceable in bankruptcy upon two alternative assumptions.
First, it assumed that a controlling federal rule required
the bankruptcy court to determine validity or invalidity
of the contract by looking to the law of New York, the
state where the court found that the contract was "made"
and primarily payable.8 Second, since the bankruptcy
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought a reference to Nev York
law was authorized .by the following cases: Cromwell v. County of

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

Opinion of the Court.

court was sitting in Kentucky, it should determine validity of the covenant as would a Kentucky court. Reviewing Kentucky decisions, the Circuit Court of Appeals
concluded that Kentucky courts also would apply New
York substantive law. Arriving at New York law by both
hypotheses, the Circuit Court of Appeals interpreted that
law as rendering the covenant invalid.. We agree with the
conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the claim
for interest on interest should not be permitted to share in
the debtor's assets, but disagree with the reasons given for
that conclusion.
A purpose of bankruptcy is so to administer an estate
as to bring about a ratable distribution of assets among
the bankrupt's creditors. What claims of creditors are
valid and subsisting obligations against the bankrupt at
the time a petition in bankruptcy is filed is a question
which, in the absence of overruling federal law, is to be
determined by reference to state law.' Bryant v. Swofford
Bros., 214 U. S. 279, 290-291; Security Mortgage Co. v.
Powers, 278 U. S. 149, 153-154. But obligations, such as
the one here for interest, often have significant contacts in
many states, so that the question of which particular
state's law should measure the obligation seldom lends
itself to simple solution. In determining which contact is
the most significant in a particular transaction, courts can
Sac, 96 U. S. 51; Scudder v. National Bank, 91 U. S. 406, 412; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 453. None of these
cases nor any cited by petitioner here, e. g., Seeman v. Philadelphia
Warehouse Co., 274 U. S. 403, involve questions of distribution of a
debtor's assets in receivership, bankruptcy or reorganization to meet
claims for interest on interest said to have accrued after a court took

possession of a debtor's estate.
'Of course, there might be instances where the validity of the obligation would be determined by reference to the law of some foreign
country.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

seldom find a complete solution in the mechanical formulae of the conflicts of law. Determination requires the
exercise of an informed judgment in the balancing of all
the interests of the states with the most significant contacts in order best to accommodate the equities among the
parties to the policies of those states. Certainly the part
of this transaction which touched New York, namely, that
the indenture contract was written, signed, and payable
there, may be a reason why that state's law should govern.
But apparently the bonds were sold to people all over the
nation. And Kentucky's interest in having its own laws
govern the obligation cannot be minimized. For the property mortgaged was there; the company's business was
chiefly there; its products were widely distributed there;
and the prices paid by Kentuckians for those products
would depend, at least to some extent, on the stability of
the company as affected by the carrying charges on its
debts. But we need not decide which, if either, of these
two states' laws govern the creation and subsistence and
validity of the obligation for interest on interest here involved. For assuming, arguendo, that the obligation for
interest on interest is valid under the law of New York,
Kentucky, and the other states having some interest in the
indenture transaction, we would still have to decide
whether allowance of the claim would be compatible with
the policy of the Bankruptcy Act. Cf. Kuehner v. Irving
Trust Co., 299 U. S. 445, 451.
In determining what claims are allowable and how a
debtor's assets shall be distributed, a bankruptcy court
does not apply the law of the state where it sits. Erie
R. R. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, has no such implication.
That case decided that a federal district court acquiring
jurisdiction because of diversity of citizenshp should adjudicate controversies as if it were only another state court.
See Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392. But bank-

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy courts must administer and enforce the Bankruptcy Act as interpreted by this Court in accordance
with authority granted by Congress to determine how and
what claims shall be allowed under equitable principles.'
And we think an allowance of interest on interest under
the circumstances shown by this case would not be in
accord with the equitable principles governing bankruptcy
distributions.
When and under what circumstances federal courts will
allow interest on claims against debtors' estates being administered by them has long been decided by federal law.
Cf. Board of Comm'rs of Jackson County v. United States,
308 U. S. 343; Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313
U. S. 289. The general rule in bankruptcy and in equity
receivership has been that interest on the debtors' obligations ceases to accrue at the beginning of proceedings. Exaction of interest, where the power of a debtor to pay
even his contractual obligations is suspended by law, has
been prohibited because it was considered in the nature of
a penalty imposed because of delay in prompt payment-a
delay necessitated by law if the courts are properly, to preserve and protect the estate for the benefit of all interests
involved. Thus this Court has said: "We cannot agree
that a penalty in the name of interest should be inflicted
upon the owners of the mortgage lien for resisting claims
which we have disallowed. As a general rule, after property of an insolvent passes into the hands of a receiver or of
an assignee in insolvency, interest is not allowed on the
claims against the funds. The delay in distribution is the
act of the law; it is a necessary incident to the settlement of
the estate." Thomas v. Western Car Co., 149 U. S. 95,
5 Heiser v. Woodruff, 327 U. S. 726, 732; American Security Co. v.
Sampsell, 327 U. S. 269, 272; Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295,

303-306.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

116-117. Cf. American Iron Co. v. SeaboardAir Line, 233
U. S. 261. Courts have felt that it would be inequitable
for anyone to gain an advantage or suffer a loss because of
such delay. Sexton v. Dreyfus, 219 U. S. 339, 346. Accrual of simple interest on unsecured claims in bankruptcy
was prohibited in order that the administrative inconvenience of continuous recomputation of interest causing
recomputation of claims could be avoided. Moreover, different creditors whose claims bore diverse interest rates or
were paid by the bankruptcy court on different dates would
suffer neither gain nor loss caused solely by delay.6
Simple interest on secured claims accruing after the
petition was filed was denied unless the security was worth
more than the sum of principal and interest due. Sexton
v. Dreyfus, supra. To allow a secured creditor interest
where his security was worth less than the value of his debt
was thought to be inequitable to unsecured creditors.
Thus we recently said: "Since the distribution provided for
these bonds on the basis of their mortgage securities is less
than the principal amount of their claim, the limitation
of their right to share the unmortgaged assets ratably with
the unsecured creditors on the basis of principal and interest prior to bankruptcy only is justified under the rule of
Ticonic National Bank v. Sprague, 303 U. S. 406."
Group of Institutional Investors v. Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul & Pacific R. Co., 318 U. S. 523, 573. But where
an estate was ample to pay all creditors and to pay interest
even after the petition was filed, equitable considerations
were invoked to permit payment of this additional interest to the secured creditor rather than to the debtor.
6

See §63a (1) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. 103a (1); ef.
§ 63 of the Act of 1898, 30 Stat. 562 and § 19 of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1867, 14 Stat. 525. For a discussion of interest claims in bankruptcy see 3 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th Ed.) 281, 1835.

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

Opinion of the Court.

Ca ",r V. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, 245; Sexton v. Dreyfus, supra.
See also Johnson v. Norris, 190 F. 459.'

It is manifest that the touchstone of each decision on
allowance of interest in bankruptcy, receivership and reorganization has been a balance of equities between creditor
and creditor or between creditors and the debtor. See Sexton v. Dreyfus, supra,at 346. That the proceedings before
us have moved from equity receivership through § 77B to

Chapter X in the wake of statutory change does not make
these equitable considerations here inapplicable. A
Chapter X or § 77B reorganization court is just as much a
court of equity as were its statutory and chancery antecedents. See Consolidated Rock ProductsCo. V.Du Bois,
312 U. S.510, 52V
In this case, where by order of the court interest was left
unpaid, we do not think that imposition of interest on
that unpaid interest can be justified by "an application of
equitable principles." See Dayton v. Stanard, 241 U. S.
588, 590. Prior to the beginning of the equity receiver7

Analogous principles have been applied to the liquidation of
national banks. White v. Knox, 111 U., S.784, 786-87, relied on in
Sexton v. Dreyfus, supra, 346; Ticonic Nat'l Bank'v. Sprague, 303
U. S. 406, 412-13.
8Section 115 of Chapter X; 11 U. S. C. 515 authorizes a Chapter X
court to exercise "all the powers, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter, which a court of the United States would have if it
had appointed a receiver in equity of the property of the debtor . . ."
Former § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, 48 Stat. 91.2, and § 77 (a),
11 U. S. C. § 205 (a) (Railroad Reorganization) contain similar
provisions.
9Petitioner and the Circuit Court have cited non-bankruptcy cases
which award interest on interest to support the award in this reorganization. Town of Genoa v. Woodruff, 92 U. S.502; Edwards v. Bate8
County, 163 U. S.269. Diversity of citizenship brought these cases to
the federal courts. None of them presented to the courts the special
bankruptcy problems of uniformity, ratable.distribution and fairneps
and equity which grow out of the context of the bankruptcy law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ship, Inland would have never owed interest on interest
unless and until it had breached its obligation to pay simple interest promptly-on the date it was due. Before
the receivership began, a failure by Inland to pay coupons
on the date they were due might have breached an existing
obligation. This breach would have imposed upon Inland,
under the terms of the covenant, a duty to pay interest on
the interest it had failed to pay."° But when the equity
receivership intervened, these interrelated obligations
were drastically changed. The obligation to make prompt
payment of simple interest coupons was suspended. In
fact, both Inland and the receiver were ordered by the
court not to pay the coupons on the dates they were, on
their face, supposed to have been paid. The contingency
which might have created a present obligation to pay interest on interest-i. e., a free decision by the debtor that
it would not or could not pay simple interest promptlywas prohibited from occurring by order of the court. That
order issued for a good cause, we may assume: to preserve
and protect the debtor's estate pending a ratable distribution among all the creditors according to their interests as
of the date the receivership began. The extra interest
covenant may be deemed added compensation for the creditor or, what is more likely, something like a penalty to induce prompt payment of simple interest. In either event,
first mortgage bondholders would have been enriched and
subordinate creditors would have suffered a corresponding
loss, because of a failure to pay when payment had been
prohibited by- a court order entered for the joint benefit
of debtor, creditors, and the public. Such a result is not
consistent with equitable principles. For legal suspen• 10 Had a breach occurred and a suit been filed in state court prior

to receivership or bankruptcy, that court would have been required to
determine whether the covenant ;was valid under the controlling
state law.

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

sion of an obligation to pay is an adequate reason why
no added compensation or penalty should be enforced for
failure to pay.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with whom MR. JUSTICE
JACKSON joins, concurring; MR. JUSTICm BURTON having

concurred in the opinion of the Court also joins in this
opinion.
In 1928 the Inland Gas Corporation, chartered by Delaware, floated a first mortgage bond issue covering property
located in Kentucky where it had its principal place of
business.

The mortgage indenture was executed in New

York, designated a New York corporation as trustee, and
made the bonds and coupons payable in New York, or, at
the option of the holder, in Chicago where the debtor had
a paying agent. By an explicit clause in the indenture,
the debtor agreed to pay interest on defaulted coupons at
the rate which applied to the bonds themselves before
maturity. The bonds were sold to the public in many
States.
The debtor defaulted on coupons and also on the bonds
when they became due. Reorganization proceedings
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act were begun by creditors
in the District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
Subsequently Chapter X of that Act was made applicable.
In these proceedings a claim, based on the covenant in
the indenture, was made by mortgage bondholders for
interest on the defaulted interest coupons. The bankruptcy court allowed the claim, apparently because it
concluded that the covenant is valid by the law of New
York. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FjuNKruRTR,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

reversed. 151 F. 2d 470. That court, apparently deeming itself ultimately controlled by the local law of Kentucky which, in turn, looked to the law of New York, ruled
that the claims should have been disallowed because the
contract for the payment of interest on coupons was void
under New York law. On the other hand, the Securities
and Exchange Commission, a statutory party to the proceedings (§ 208 of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. 608),
urges allowance of the claim if the covenant would, apart
from bankruptcy, be upheld in the courts of any State
having "a substantial relationship to the transaction."
The Commission therefore supports allowance of the claim
because it finds that two of the States related to the transaction would uphold the covenant: Delaware, the State of
the debtor's incorporation, and Kentucky, its principal
place of business and the site of the mortgage property.
Finally another view suggests that whether interest should
be allowed in this case is a matter of federal law to be fashioned by the bankruptcy court in the light of general, undefined notions of equity policy and of bankruptcy
administration.
Of course, where rights are created by the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States and do not
owe 'their origin to the laws of any State, the granting
or withholding of interest as part of the remedy is also a
function of federal law. That is the upshot of the decision in Board of Commissioners v. United States, 308 U. S.
343. The factors legally decisive of the present problen
are the opposite of those which controlled our decision in
that case. There we had a right created by federal law.
In this case, it was beyond the power of federal law to
create the right for which claim was made, although, if
by State law such a right came into being, it might become a question whether the- federal courts should recognize such a right when they are sought to be utilized as
instruments for its enforcement.

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

FRAxKrURR, J., concurring.

Conflict-of-law problems have a beguiling tendency to
be made even more complicated than they are. Therefore, they are often, as now, fitting occasions for observing
the classic admonition to begin at the beginning. The
business of bankruptcy administration is to determine how
existing debts should be satisfied out of the bankrupt's
estate so as to deal fairly with the various creditors. The
existence of a debt between the parties to an alleged
creditor-debtor relation is independent of bankruptcy and
precedes it. Parties are in a bankruptcy court with their
rights and duties already established, except insofar as
they subsequently arise during the course of bankruptcy
administration or as part of its conduct. Obligations to
be satisfied out of the bankrupt's estate thus arise, if at all,
out of tort or contract or other relationship created under
applicable law. And the law that fixes legal consequences
to transactions is the law of the several States. Except
for the very limited obligations created by Congress, e. g.,
Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392, a debt is not
brought into being by federal law. Obligations exist or
do not exist by force of State law though federal bankruptcy legislation is in force, just as State law determined
whether they came into being or did not come into being
between 1878 and 1898 when there was no bankruptcy
law. The fact that subsequent to the creation of a debt
a party comes into a bankruptcy court has no relevance to
the rules concerning the creation of the obligation. Of
course a State may affix to a transaction an obligation
which the courts of other States or the federal courts
need not enforce because of overriding considerations of
policy. And so, in the proper adjustment of the rights of
creditors and the desire to rehabilitate the debtor, Congress under its bankruptcy power may authorize its courts
to refuse to allow existing debts to be proven. It may do
so, for instance, where the recognition of such claims
would undermine the fair administration of a debtor's

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
'RANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

estate, even though before bankruptcy such a claim would
have supported a valid judgment in the courts of the State
which created the obligation, or even in the courts of the
State where the bankruptcy court is sitting. But the
threshold question for the allowance of a claim is whether
a claim exists. And clarity of analysis justifies repetition
that except where federal law, wholly apart from bankruptcy, has created obligations by the exercise of power
granted to the federal government, a claim implies the
existence of an obligation created by State law. If there
was no valid claim before bankruptcy, there is no claim for
a bankruptcy court either to recognize or to reject.
Such an analysis, however phrased, is indispensable to
the solution of the problem now before us. Putting the
wrong questions is not likely to beget right answers even
in law. One-way of putting our problem is to ask whether
the bankruptcy court executing the policy of Congress
could recognize a claim for interest on coupons and allow it to share in the distribution of the bankrupt's assets.
But thus to frame the,question is to avoid the crucial pre'
liminary inquiry whether any obligation exists to be recognized. For nothing comes into a bankruptcy court to
which congressional policy can apply unless it is an obligation created by applicable State law. And no oligation
finds its way into a bankruptcy court unless, by the law of
the State where the acts constituting a transaction occur,
the legal consequence of such a transaction is an obligation
to pay. See Bryant v. -Swofford Bros., 214 U. S. 279,
290-91; Benedict v. Ratner, 268 U. S. 353; Security Mortgage Co. v. Powers, 278 U. S. 149. Where a transaction
in its entirety occurs in one State, it is clearly the law
of that State that determines if an obligation is born,
whether the question becomes relevant in a bankruptcy
court or in any other court. But the mere fact that an
agreement is made in one State by citizens of a second
State for performance in a third and affecting individuals

VANSTON COMMITTEE v. GREEN.
156

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

in all forty-eight States does not change the principle inherent in our federal scheme, that the existence of a debt
comes about not by federal law but by force of some State
law, even though the right to enforce the debt, if it exists,
may raise federal questions if bankruptcy ensues. Bankruptcy legislation is superimposed upon rights and obligations created by the laws of the States. Compare Marshall
v. New York, 254 U. S. 380. We do not reach considerations of policy in bankruptcy administration until
there are rights, created by applicable local law, to be
recognized.
This brings us to the immediate situation. This is not
a case where damages are claimed, in the form of interest,
for the detention of monies due. In such a situation the
right to interest and its measure become matters for judicial determination. The claim here asserted is based
solely on the terms of the agreement. The covenant
for interest on interest was entered into by the parties
in New York. The dominant place of performance was
also New York. In the circumstances, if the words of
the indenture created an obligation, they did so only if
the law of New York says they did. Williston, Contracts
§ 1792. If New York outlawed such a covenant, neither
Kentucky nor Delaware nor the States in which bonds
were sold or where bondholders reside could give effect to
an obligation which never came into being. Compare
John Hancock Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U. S. 178. And the
ultimate voice of New York law, the New York Court of
Appeals, speaking through Judge Cardozo, stated it as
settled law that "a promise to pay interest upon interest is
void . . ." Newburger-Morris Co. v. Talcott, 219 N. Y.
505, 510, 114 N. E. 846. This view of the New York law is
supported by the great weight of Judge Mack's authority.
American Brake Shoe & Foundry Co. v. Interborough
Rapid Transit Co., 11 F. Supp. 418, 419-420. But see
American Brake Shoe & Foundry Co. v. Interborough

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

Rapid Transit Co., 26 F. Supp. 954, contra. However, it is
not for us to ascertain independently whether the law of
New York deemed a nullity the agreement that was here
sought to be made the basis of a claim. We would not have
brought the case here on that issue. The Circuit Court of
Appeals made such an investigation and concluded that in
New York the undertaking to pay interest was void. We
accept this finding and conclude that since no obligation
was created there -was no claim provable in bankruptcy.
And so we are not -nowcalled upon to decide whether as
a matter of bankruptcy administration an agreement to
pay interest on interest, where it is an obligation enforceable by State law, is enforceable in bankruptcy. That is a
question that can arise only where such an obligation
arose under State law. The opposite is the assumption
in the case before us.
It is argued, however, that this conclusion subjects the
fate of a claim in bankruptcy to the whim of State law.
We are told that this result is against the policy of Congress implied in measures for the protection of investors
and contravenes the requirement of "uniform Laws on the
subject of Vankruptcies." Art. I, § 8, Cl. 4. But this misconceives the purpose and settled uncerstanding of the
bankruptcy clause of the Constitution. The Constitutional requirement of uniformity is a requirement of geographic uniformity. It is wholly satisfied when existing
obligations of a debtor are treated alike by the bankruptcy administration throughout the country, regardless.
of the State in which the bankruptcy court sits. See
Hanover National Bank v. Moyses, 186 U. S. 181, 190. To
establish uniform laws of bankruptcy does not mean
wiping out the differences among the forty-eight States
in their laws governing -commercial transactions. The
Constitution did not intend that transactions that have
different legal consequences because they took place in
different States shall come out with the same result be-

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
156

Counsel for Parties.

cause they passed through a bankruptcy court. In the
absence of bankruptcy such differences are the familiar
results of a federal system having forty-eight diverse
codes of local law. These differences inherent in our
federal scheme the day before a bankruptcy are not wiped
out or transmuted the day after.

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 36. Argded November 15, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
1. In reviewing on writ of error a conviction for murder in which it
was claimed that the right to counsel had been denied contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment, a state supreme court, in accordance
with local practice, whereby it could consider only the common law
record, concluded that, after being fully advised of his rights, the
accused had consciously chosen to dispense with counsel and to plead
guilty. Factors such as racial handicap of the accused, his mental
incapacity, his inability to make an intelligent choice, or precipitancy in the acceptance of a plea of guilty-which might show
fundamental unfairness in the proceedings before the trial judgewere not before the state supreme court in this proceeding. Held:
On this record, to which review in this Court is confined, there is
no showing of a denial of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786, distinguished. Pp. 177-180.
2. Designation of counsel to assist defendant at time of sentencing
does not imply that he was not capable of intelligent self-protection
when he pleaded guilty. Pp. 178-179.
391 Ill. 594, 63 N. E. 2d 763, affirmed.

The Supreme Court of Illinois sustained a conviction
for murder. 391 Ill. 594, 63 N. E. 2d 763. This Court
granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 827. Affirmed, p. 180.
Stephen A. Mitchell argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.

