GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
Syllabus.

545

Illinois assets. What was before that court and what is
before this Court is whether a Missouri claimant may share
in the distribution of a common fund not on the basis of a
claim established according to a uniform procedure but
on the basis of a judgment secured in Missouri subsequent
to the passing of that fund to the Illinois liquidator.
This is not to say that the Missouri judgment is invalid.
Whether recovery may be based on this judgment in Missouri, or in any other State except Illinois, or even in
Illinois should the assets go out of the State's hands and
return to a reanimated Chicago Lloyds, are questions that
do not now call for consideration.
The judgment should be affirmed.

GARDNER, TRUSTEE, v. NEW JERSEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 92.

Argued December 20, 1946.-Decided January 20, 1947.

A railroad petitioned for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy
Act after New Jersey taxes had accrued against it in an aggregate
amount exceeding the value of its liquid assets and extensive litiga-

tion over' the tax assessments had resulted adversely to it. The
state comptroller filed on behalf of the State a claim for taxes, plus
interest, claiming that, under the state law, the sums owed were secured by "a lien paramount to all other liens upon all the lands and
tangible property and franchises of the company in this State."
Objections to the claim were filed by the debtor, the trustee,
security holders, and an indenture trustee, who claimed, inter alia,
that the debtor's property was grossly overvalued, that the debtor
had been intentionally and systematically discriminated against in
making the assessments, that no interest accrued after the petition
for reorganization was filed or during the period when collection of
the taxes was enjoined and the debtor was contesting their validity,
that the State had no lien on the debtor's personal property, and
that no part of the State's claim except the principal amount of taxes
was entitled to a lien equal or paramount to the debtor's general

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

mortgage. After an attempt by the trustee to compromise the
State's tax claims pursuant to state legislation facilitating such compromises had been frustrated by a declaration of the invalidity of

the legislation, the trustee petitioned the reorganization court for
adjudication of these claims. Appearing specially, the state attorney general claimed that entertainment of the petition would constitute a prohibited suit against the State. Held:
1. The reorganization court had jurisdiction over proof and allowance of the tax claims, and the exercise of that power was not a suit
against the State. P. 572.
2. As so construed, § 77 is constitutional. New York .v. Irving
Trust Co., 288 U. S. 329. P. 574.
3. The conclusion of the Federal District Court in New Jersey
that the state comptroller had authority under New Jersey law to
file the claim is entitled to special weight, and this Court finds
nothing to impeach it. P. 574.
4. The reorganization court has jurisdiction over all property of
the debtor, including that on which the State asserts a lien, and the
court's power to deal with liens extends to the lien claimed by the
State. P. 575.
5. The reorganization court has no power to redetermine for state
tax purposes the valuations of the railroad's property underlying
the assessments or the validity of the assessments. Arkansas Corporation Commission v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 132. P. 578.
6. The reorganization court is not precluded, however, from adjudicating other issues raised by objections to the State's claim.
P. 579.
(a) The validity and priority of one lien, whether or not
claimed by a State, as against other liens, are questions for the
reorganization court. P. 579.:
(b) The extent of the lien-to what property it applies and
whether it is restricted to realty or covers personal property or
revenues as well-is a question for the reorganization court.
P. 580.
(c) Excepting questions involving the valuations underlying
the assessments and the validity of the assessments, the reorganization court may adjudicate questions pertaining to the amount of a
tax claim secured by a lien-e. g., whether the amount of the claim
has been swollen by the inclusion of forbidden penalties, what claims
sought to be proved by the State are "penalties," the applicability
of § 57j to reorganizations under § 77, the liability of the estate for
penalties incurred by the trustee in the operation of the business,

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Statement of the Case.

and what interest, if any, accrues after the petition for reorganization has been filed. P. 580.
(d) Through appropriate exercise of the power to compromise
or settle claims, the court may authorize the trustee to compromise
claims, secured or unsecured, and may approve equitable adjustments of them, thus reducing or otherwise affecting the participation that the claimant, whether a State or another, may have in the
res which is in custodia legis. P. 581.
7. This Court will not pass on questions of local law as to the
validity or effect of settlements made in accordance witi' state legislation later held invalid, since those questions have not been passed
upon by either the reorganization court or the Circuit Court of
Appeals, both of which have greater familiarity than this Court
with local law and local practice. Pp. 582-583.
8. These rulings are subject to the limitation that res judicata
may have made binding on the reorganization court various questions of local law, including the amount and validity of the taxes
under the state law and the character and extent of the lien which
that law affords them. P. 584.
152 F. 2d 408, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

In a proceeding for the reorganization of a railroad under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, the reorganization court confirmed a report of a special master finding that (1) certain
proofs of claim of New Jersey for taxes were properly filed
by state officers acting in pursuance of their statutory authority, (2) § 77 confers on the reorganization court jurisdiction over the kind of claims asserted by the State in the
proceeding, and such construction of the Act is not unconstitutional, and (3) the entire property of the debtor is in
custodia legis, subject to the rights of lienholders, and the
reorganization court is the proper court to determine the

validity and amount of the tax claims, subject to certain
limitations. New Jersey appealed and petitioned for a
writ of prohibition. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the order of the reorganization court and dismissed
the application for a writ of prohibition. 152 F. 2d 408.
This Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 876. Affirmed
in part and reversed in part,p. 584.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

James D. Carpenter argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were HowardL. Kern, Alexander H.
Elder and Samuel M. Coombs, Jr.
Benjamin C. Van Tine argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
Fred N. Oliver, Willard P. Scott, Thomas Raeburn
White, William A. Roberts, Philip S. Jessup and A. M.
Lewis filed a brief for the Group of Institutional Investors
et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal. CharlesA. Rooney,
CharlesHershenstein and Milton B. Conford filed a brief
for Jersey City, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case, here on certiorari, presents important problems under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. 49 Stat. 911, 11
U. S. C. § 205. The Central Railroad Company of New
Jersey (the debtor), of which petitioner is trustee, filed
its petition for reorganization in 1939 shortly after receiving notice from the Attorney General of New Jersey that
he would apply to a state court for a summary judgment
for unpaid taxes of the debtor and seek to sell its property
in satisfaction of the judgment. The tax assessments for
the years 1932 to 1939 had been extensively litigated both
in the state and federal courts and the results were for the
most part adverse to the debtor.1 By the end of 1939 the
tax claims of the State against the debtor, exclusive of
interest and penalties, exceeded $15,000,000, while the
liquid assets of the debtor available to pay them were
apparently less than half that amount. The reorganization court stayed suits to collect the taxes but from time
to time entered orders directing the debtor to make speci"The history of the litigation is reviewed in the opinion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in this case.

152 F. 2d pp. 408-411.

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

fled installment payments on account of the taxes for
various years.
In 1941 the New Jersey legislature passed a law designed
to lessen the tax burden of railroads in the State. P. L.
1941, chs. 290, 291. This law was implemented and somewhat modified in 1942. P.L. 1942, chs. 169, 241. These
acts included changes in the tax rates and provided for
installment payments of the full principal amount of
unpaid property taxes without interest or penalties, which
were due on or before December 1, 1940. The statutory
settlement of the claims was conditioned on (1) the execution of installment payment plans and the payment
of the first installment, and (2) a waiver of all rights
to contest the legality or amount of any assessment made
prior to December 1, 1941, together with written consent to the discontinuance and dismissal of all pending
suits concerning such assessments. The reorganization
court authorized petitioner to settle and compromise the
delinquent taxes in accordance with the provisions of these
acts. Petitioner undertook to comply with the statutory
requiren)ents, filing documents and payments required of
a delinquent taxpayer, discontinuing litigation, and consenting to the discontinuance of pending appeals.2 The
state officials-the Attorney General, Treasurer, and
Comptroller-did not accept these tenders.' Instead, the
Attorney General instituted suit to enjoin the Treasurer
from carrying out the provisions of the 1941 and 1942 acts.
The result was a holding that the acts violated the New
Jersey constitution. Wilentz v. Hendrickson, 135 N. J.
Eq. 244, 38 A. 2d 199.
2

Delinquencies of subsidiary companies of the debtor were also

included.
The 1942 Act increased the 1941 franchise tax of the debtor. The
waiver authorized by the reorganization court included a waiver of
the right to contest the legality of that additional assessment.
3 See In re Central R. Co. of New Jersey, 136 F. 2d 633, which contains a review of the facts of this episode.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Meanwhile the reorganization court set a time within
which all claims against the debtor should be filed. In
compliance therewith the State Comptroller filed on behalf
of the State of New Jersey a claim for taxes owing it.'
The proof of claim stated that over $18,000,000 had been
paid on the tax claim, leaving unpaid some $12,000,000,
plus interest of over $7,700,000, plus additional interest
on those sums from December 1, 1940. The proof of claim
also stated that under New Jersey law the sums owed were
secured by "a lien paramount to all other liens upon all
the lands and tangible property and franchises of the company in this State."
The debtor and trustee filed initial objections to the
claim. They contended that the property of the debtor
was grossly overvalued and that the debtor and other railroads had been intentionally and systematically discriminated against in the making of the assessments. They
also objected to the interest or penalty part of the claim,
contending, inter alia, that no interest accrued after the
date when the debtor's petition for reorganization was
filed or during the period when collection of the taxes was
enjoined and the debtor was in good faith contesting their
validity. Subsequently they objected to the claim on the
further ground that its amount and the time allowed for its
payment were governed by the terms of settlement or compromise tendered under the 1941 and 1942 acts of the New
Jersey legislature. They also contended that New Jersey
had no lien on the debtor's personal property. Like objections were made by a group of security holders of the
debtor and by an indenture trustee. They also objected to
the State's claim on the ground that no part of it other
than that representing the principal amount of taxes was
entitled to a lien equal or paramount to the debtor's
general mortgage.
ILike claims were also filed against subsidiaries of the debtor.

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

New Jersey, through her Attorney General, filed replies
to the various objections which had been made to her
claim, stating, inter alia, that the principal amount of the
claim had been finally adjudicated and was lawfully owing,
that the principal amount together with interest was entitled to priority under § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, and
that the claim was entitled to a paramount lien on all the
lands, tangible property, and franchises of the debtor.
Shortly after Wilentz v. Hendrickson, supra, was decided, the trustee filed with the reorganization court a
petition for adjudication of New Jersey's tax claims which
in substance recapitulated his earlier objections to the
claim and asked for an adjudication that the. settlement
or compromise tendered under the 1941 and 1942 acts of
New Jersey was binding; or alternatively, if it was not
binding, a determination of the extent to which the claim
should be allowed and the relative rights, liens and
priorities of the various claimants in the debtor's assets.
The Attorney General of New Jersey thereupon entered
a special appearance in the proceedings, claiming, inter
alia, that the entertainment of the petition would constitute a prohibited suit against the State, both as respects
the determination of the amount of the claim and its
priority or lien.
The reorganization court referred New Jersey's claim to
a special master to consider this additional contention of
the State, as well as the previous objections to it and the
State's replies thereto.
The special master rendered a report in 1945 in which
he found (1) that the proofs of claim of New Jersey were
properly filed by state officers acting in pursuance of their
statutory authority; (2) that § 77 confers on the reorganization court jurisdiction over the kind of claims
asserted by the State in the proceeding and that such construction of the Act is not unconstitutional; and (3) that

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

the entire property of the debtor is in custodia legis subject to the rights of lienholders, and that the reorganization court is the proper court to determine the validity
and amount of the tax claims and their lien, subject to
the limitations of Arkansas Corporation Commission v.
Thompson, 313 U. S. 132, which he did not think were presently involved in the proceedings. New Jersey, through
her Attorney General, filed objections to the report. The
reorganization court overruled them and adopted and
confirmed the report. New Jersey took an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. She also filed in that court a
petition for a writ of prohibition in which she challenged
the rulings of the reorganization court on the same
grounds.
The Circuit Court of Appeals treated the appeal as if
all of the questions presented were covered by Arkansas
Corporation Commission v. Thompson, supra. It held
that the "only matters left open" for the reorganization
court were (1) mathematical error in the computation of
the amount of the tax or (2) legal error in its assessment.
It accordingly reversed the order of the reorganization
court and dismissed the application for a writ of prohibition. 152 F. 2d 408, 418.
First. We think, contrary to the position of New Jersey,
that the reorganization court had jurisdiction over the
proof and allowance of the tax claims and that the exercise of that power was not a suit against the State. Section 77 deals not only with claims of private parties but
with those of public agencies as well. Section 77 (b)
defines "creditors" as "all holders of claims of whatever
character against the debtor or its property, whether or
not such claims would otherwise constitute provable
claims under this Act." And "claims" are defined to
include "debts, whether liquidated or unliquidated, securities (other than stock and option warrants to subscribe
to stock), liens, or other interests of whatever character."

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

Id. And § 77 (c) (7) provides for the prompt fixing of
a reasonable time within which, the, "claims of creditors"
may be filed and the manner in which they may be filed
and allowed. The words "all holders of claims" have no
qualification and are sufficiently broad to include public
agencies as well as private parties. The "claims" of creditors include secured and unsecured' claims. We find not
the slightest suggestion that Congress left out the large
class of tax claims which recurringly appears in reorganizations and often assumes, as here, large proportions.
They are expressly included among provable claims in
§ 57n of the Bankruptcy Act, 52 Stat. 840, 867, 11 U. S. C.
§ 93 (n).' And the sweeping, all-inclusive definitions of
"claims" and "creditors" in § 77 leave room for no
exception under it.
When a State files a proof of claim in the reorganization court, it is using a traditional method of collecting a
debt. A proof of claim is, of course, prima facie evidence of its validity. Whitney v. Dreser, 200 U. S. 532.
But the bankruptcy court whose aid is sought for enforcement of an asserted claim is not bound to treat the tendered proof as conclusive. When objections are made, it
is duty bound to pass on them. That process is, indeed,
of basic importance in the administration of a bankruptcy
estate whether the objective be liquidation or reorganization. Without that sifting process, unmeritorious or excessive claims might dilute the participation of the legitimate claimants.
It is traditional bankruptcy law that he who invokes the
aid of the bankruptcy court by offering a proof of claim
and demanding its allowance must abide the consequences
of that procedure. Wiswall v. Campbell, 93 U.S. 347,351.
If the claimant is a State, the procedure of proof and
5 See H. Rep. No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13; S. Rep. No.
1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 5, 16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

allowance is not transmuted into a suit against the State
because the court entertains objections to the claim. The
State is seeking something from the debtor. No judgment is sought against the State. The whole process of
proof, allowance, and distribution is, shortly speaking,
an adjudication of interests claimed in a res. It is none
the less such because the claim is rejected in toto, reduced
in part, given a priority inferior to that claimed, or satisfied in some way other than payment in cash. When
the State becomes the actor and files a claim against the
fund, it waives any immunity which it otherwise might
have had respecting the adjudication of the claim. See
Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S.436, 447-448; Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S.273, 284-289; Missouri v. Fiske,
290 U. S.18, 24-25.
The extent of the constitutional authority of the bankruptcy court in this respect was passed upon in New York
v. Irving Trust Co., 288 U. S. 329. In that case the Court
sustained an order of the bankruptcy court which barred
a State's tax claim because not filed within the time fixed
for the filing of claims. The Court stated, p. 333, "If a
state desires to participate in the assets of a bankrupt,
she must submit to appropriate requirements by the controlling power; otherwise, orderly and expeditious proceedings would be impossible and a fundamental purpose
of the Bankruptcy Act would be frustrated."
In the present circumstances there is, therefore, no
collision between § 77 and the Constitution.
Nor can we conclude that the claim was not properly
filed by the State. The State Comptroller, who filed the
claim on behalf of the State, is authorized to "institute
and direct prosecution . . . for just claims and debts due

to the state." N. J. R. S. §52:19-10c. And see id.,
§ 52:19-15. The State Attorney General, who resisted
the objections made to the claim, is authorized to "attend
generally to all matters in which the state is a party or in

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

which its rights and interests are involved." Id., § 52:
17-2g. The special master, whose report the reorganization court adopted, held that what these officials did in this
case was in pursuance of their authority. For that conclusion he relied on the statutes which we have mentioned
and the practice in other reorganization proceedings.
That construction of New Jersey law made by a federal
judge of the New Jersey District Court is entitled to special weight. Steele v. General Mills, 329 U. S. 433. We
find nothing which impeaches it. To hold otherwise
might, indeed, imperil the claim which New Jersey so vigorously asserts. For it appears that the time for filing
claims has expired and under the rule of New York v.
Irving Trust Co., supra, a filing at this late date might
come too late.'
Second. New Jersey contends that Congress did not
include a State's tax liens within the scheme of § 77 proceedings. That is but another way of saying that since
the State's asserted liens attached before the reorganization petition was filed, the only property of the debtor in
custodia legis was its equity after the tax liens were
satisfied.
We do not agree with that conclusion. We partially
answered the contention when we reviewed the broad, all-

6 See Meyer v. Fleming, 327 U. S. 161, 169, footnote 18: "See. 77
(c) (7) provides that the judge 'shall promptly determine and fix
a reasonable time within which the claims of creditors may be filed
or evidenced and after which no claim not so filed or evidenced may
participate except on order for cause shown . . .' This is the equity
rule (5 Collier on Bankruptcy (1944) p. 537) which permits the
filing of claims out of time provided the claim is equitable, the claimant
is not chargeable with laches, and the assets have not been distributed
(see Conklin v. United States Shipbuilding Co., 136 F. 1006, 1009-

1010; Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. New York City R. Co., 198 F. 721,
740-742); and provided further that the late filing does not unduly
delay the proceedings. Guaranty Trust Co. v. Henwood, 86 F. 2d
347, 353."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S..

inclusive nature of the definitions of "creditors" and
"claims" contained in § 77 (b). As those definitions make
plain, "all holders of claims" include those who assert
"liens" against the property of the debtor.
Section 77 (b), moreover, gives the reorganization court
broad powers over all types of liens. Thus a plan of reorganization "shall include provisions modifying or altering
the rights of creditors generally, or of any class of them,
secured or unsecured, either through the issuance of new
securities of any character or otherwise." § 77 (b) (1).
A plan of reorganization may provide for "the sale of all or
any part of the property of the debtor either subject to or
free from any lien at not less than a fair upset price."
§ 77 (b) (5). (Italics added.) It may order "the distribution of all or any assets, or the proceeds derived from the
sale thereof, among those having an interest therein." Id.
Or it may provide for "the satisfaction or modification of
any liens" or "the curing or waiver of defaults." Id.
(Italics added.) This is comprehensive language suggesting that all liens are included, not that some are beyond
the reach of the court. While valid liens existing at the
commencement of bankruptcy proceedings have always
been preserved, it has long been a function of the bankruptcy court to ascertain their validity and extent and to
determine the method of their liquidation. Whitney v.
Wenman, 198 U. S. 539, 552; Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734, 737-738; Straton v. New, 283 U. S.
318, 321. Moreover, both in receivership cases, New York
v. Maclay, 288 U. S. 290; United States v. Texas, 314 U. S.
480, and in bankruptcy cases, Van Huffel v. Harkelrode,
284 U. S. 225; New York v. Irving Trust Co., supra, the
authority of the court to deal with the lien of a State has
long been recognized. In reorganization cases the task
of resolving disputes as to liens is a common one for the
court. See InstitutionalInvestors v. Chicago, M., St. P. &

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

P. R. Co., 318 U. S. 523, 569. Indeed, before a plan of
reorganization can be designed in accord with fair and
equitable requirements, liens must be disentaingled and
their relative priorities ascertained. This problem, present in most reorganizations, is acute in the railroad field.
If the reorganization court lacked the power to deal with
tax liens of a State, the assertion by a State of a lien would
pull out chunks of an estate from the reorganization court
and transfer a part of the struggle over the corpus into
tax bureaus and other state tribunals. That would not
only seriously impair the power of the court to administer
the estate and adversely affect the power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the court to promulgate a reorganization plan. See Ecker v. Western Pacific R. Corp.,
318 U. S. 448, 466--475; Smith v. Hoboken Railroad, W. &
S. C. Co., 328 U. S. 123. It would fly in the teeth of § 77
(a), which grants the reorganization court "exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever located."
That jurisdiction is not limited to the prevention of
interference with the use of the property by the trustee;
it "extends also to the adjudication of questions respecting the title." Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610, 616;
Thompson v. Texas Mexican Ry. Co., 328 U. S. 134, 140.
It is the exclusive jurisdiction of the reorganization court
which gives it power to preserve the railway as a unit and
as a going concern and to prevent it from being divided
up and dismembered piecemeal. Only in that way can
continuous operation of the road be assured and a plan of
reorganization be effected which not only safeguards the
interests of the various claimants but is also compatible
with the public interest. Continental Bank v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 648; Smith v. Hoboken Railroad, W. & S, C. Co., supra.
When § 77 is read against this historical background and
in light of practical requirements, we cannot conceive that

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Congress gave the reorganization court power less replete
than the sweeping language of § 77 suggests.
The constitutional authority of Congress to grant the
bankruptcy court power to deal with the lien of a State has
been settled. In Van Huffel v. Harkelrode, supra, the
Court held that the bankruptcy court was constitutionally
empowered to order a sale of property of a bankrupt free
and clear of a lien of a State for taxes.
We hold that the reorganization court has jurisdiction
over all of the property of the debtor, including that on
which New Jersey asserts a lien, and that the power of the
court to deal with liens extends to the lien which New
Jersey claims.!
Third. We held in Arkansas Corporation Commission
v. Thompson, supra, that the reorganization court lacked
the power under § 77 to redetermine for state tax purposes
the property value of a railroad where that vilue had
already been determined in state proceedings which afforded ample protection to the railroad's rights. We
adhere to that decision. Its ruling precludes redetermination by the reorganization court in this case of the valuations underlying the assessments made by the state
authorities and the validity of those assessments used as
the basis for the computation of the taxes. It may not
therefore entertain the objections to New Jersey's claim
which tender those issues. The proper tribunals where
7 Section 64a of the Bankruptcy Act determines the priority to
which taxes owing a State are entitled and grants the bankruptcy
court power to determine questions concerning "the amount or legality

of any taxes."

In Arkansas Corporation Commission v. Thompson,

supra, we reserved decision on whether § 64a was applicable in reorganizations under § 77. We do not reach that question here. For
§ 77 alone is adequate to sustain the assertee jurisdiction of the reorganization court over all the property bf the debtor. See Lylord v.
City of New York, 137 F. 2d 782, 785-786.

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

those issues may be litigated, if they are still open for any
year, are the state agencies and courts and, under special
circumstances, the federal courts. Hillsboroughv. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620. The Circuit Court of Appeals has
reviewed at length the New Jersey procedure available
for challenging the valuations which underlie assessments.
152 F. 2d pp. 411-414. By the standards of Arkansas
Corporation Commission v. Thompson, supra, that procedure is adequate, so that relitigation of the question in
the reorganization proceedings would not be appropriate.
Fourth. The rule of Arkansas CorporationCommission
v. Thompson, supra, does not, however, preclude the reorganization court from adjudicating the other issues raised
by the objections to New Jersey's claim. The contrary
view, which the Circuit Court of Appeals apparently took,
fails to recognize historic bankruptcy powers which, as
we have already pointed out,8 are part of the arsenal of
authority granted the reorganization court by § 77.
(1) The validity and priority of one lien, whether or not
claimed by a State, as against other liens, are questions for the reorganization court. Illustrating but not
limiting the range of that inquiry are questions whether
local law creates the lien asserted; whether it was sufficiently perfected prior to the petition for reorganization
as to be good against other liens, cf. New York v. Maclay,
supra; United States v. Texas, supra; whether, if it were
inchoate at that time, it could be'perfected subsequent to
the petition, Lyford v. State of New York, 140 F. 2d 840;
and whether the lien, though paramount, is subordinate
8 As stated in Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., supra, p. 738,
"while valid liens existing at the time of the commencement of a
bankruptcy proceeding are preserved, it is solely within the power of
a court of bankruptcy to ascertain their validity and amount and
to decree the method of their liquidation."

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

to administration expenses or other claims under either the
general bankruptcy rule, City of New York v. Hall, 139 F.
2d 935, or the equity rule,' 5 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th
ed.) ff 77.21. See Warren v. Palmer, 310 U. S. 132.
(2) The extent of the lien-to what property it applies,
and whether it is restricted to realty or covers personal
property or revenues as well-are also questions for the
reorganization court. See Ecker v. Western Pacific R.
Corp., supra, pp. 489, 503.
(3) The reorganization court may also adjudicate questions pertaining to the amount of a tax claim secured by a
lien without crossing the forbidden line marked by Arkansas CorporationCommission v. Thompson, supra. There
is, for example, the question whether the amount of the
claim has been swollen by the inclusion of a forbidden penalty and thus to that extent does not meet the bankruptcy
requirements for proof and allowance of claims. Section
57j of the Bankruptcy Act provides that debts owing a
State as a "penalty or forfeiture" 10 shall not be allowed.
What claims accruing before bankruptcy and sought to be
proved by a State are "penalties," New York v. Jersawit,
263 U. S. 493, and what are not, Meilink v. Unemployment
Reserves Commission, 314 U. S. 564; the applicability of
9 Section 77 (a) provides that if the petition is approved the reorganization court "during the pendency of the proceedings under this
section and for the purposes thereof, . . . shall have and may exercise in addition to the powers conferred by this section all the powers,
not in' onsistent with this section, which a Federal court would have
had if it had appointed a receiver in equity of the property of the
debtor for any purpose."
10Section 57j reads in full:
"Debts owing to the United States or any State or subdivision
thereof as a penalty or forfeiture shall not be allowed, except
for the amount of the pecuniary loss sustained by the act, transaction, or proceeding out of which the penalty or forfeiture
arose, with reasonable and actual costs occasioned thereby and
such interest as may have accrued thereon according to law."

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

581

Opinion of the Court.

§ 57j to'reorganizations under § 77; 11the liability of the
estate for penalties incurred by the trustee in the operation of the business, Boteler v. Ingels, 308 U. S. 57; what
interest, if any, accrues after the petition for reorganization
has been filed, Vanston Committee v. Green,329 U. S. 156,
are all questions for the reorganization court.
. (4) We noted in Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products
Co., 308 U. S. 106, 130, that one useful and fitting function
of a reorganization court was the compromise or settlement of claims, so that interminable litigation might be
ended and the interests of expedition in promulgating a
plan of reorganization served. That power, expressly included in the Bankruptcy Act 1 and governed by our General Order No. 33,13 is part of the broad authority granted
the reorganization court by § 77.1" Through the appro12 Section 77 (1) provides:
"In proceedings under this section and consistent with the provisions thereof, the jurisdiction and powers of the court, the duties
of the debtor and the rights and liabilities of creditors, and of
all persons with respect to the debtor and its property, shall be
the same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been filed
and a decree of adjudication had been entered on the day when,
the debtor's petition was filed."
2 Section 27 provides:
"The receiver or trustee may, with the approval of the court, compromise any controversy arising in the administration of the estate
upon such terms as he may deem for the best interest of the
estate." 52 Stat. 855.
18
General Order No. 33 provides:
"Whenever a receiver, trustee or debtor in possession shall make
application to the court for authority to submit to arbitration
any controversy arising in the settlement of an estate, or for
authority to compromise any such controversy, the application
shall clearly and distinctly set forth the subject matter of the
controversy, and the reasons why it is proper and for the best
interest of the estate that the controversy should be settled by
arbitration or compromise." 305 U. S. 696.
14 See § 77 (1), note 11., supra, and § 77 (a), note 9, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

priate exercise of that power, the court may authorize the
trustee to compromise claims, secured or unsecured, and
may approve equitable adjustments of them, and so reduce
or otherwise affect the participation that the claimant,
whether a State or another, may have in the res which is
in custodia legis.
It is urged in this case that the settlement and compromise of New Jersey's tax claim which the reorganization
court authorized the trustee to make under the so-called
settlement acts of the New Jersey legislature of 1941 and
1942 was an appropriate exercise of that power; that the
compromise was valid and binding under New Jersey law;
and that even if the compromise was not valid, payments
made by the trustee and the conduct of the parties have
altered the claim as respects the lien, the principal amount
of the claim; and the interest or penalty portion of it.
New Jersey vigorously contests all and each of these
contentions.
A phase of this controversy was before the Circuit Court
of Appeals in In re Central R. Co. of New Jersey, supra.
That court had before it on appeal the order of the
reorganization court (entered prior to the decision in
Wilentz v. Hendrickson, supra, holding the acts of 1941
and 1942 unconstitutional) which, on the basis of the
compromise, allowed New Jersey's claim only in a reduced
amount. The Circuit Court of Appeals held (1) that it
would have been more appropriate for the reorganization
court to have stayed its hand pending determination of
the state litigation and (2) that, in any event, it should
not have passed on the constitutionality of the 1941 and
1942 acts without giving New Jersey an opportunity for
a hearing and argument on the issue. This controversy
is now in a different posture. New questions of local law
emerge-whether Wilentz v. Hendrickson, supra, controls
this case; whether a valid settlement can be made under an

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
565

Opinion of the Court.

unconstitutional act and, if so, whether this alleged compromise was valid and effective; whether, if the settlement was not binding, the amount of the claim or the
extent of the lien has been altered by the payments made
during reorganization orby the conduct of the parties.
These points have been briefed and argued here. The
difficulty is that neither the reorganization court nor the
Circuit Court of Appeals passed on them. The reorganization court passed solely on a question of jurisdictionwhether it had the power to make adjudications concerning the amount of New Jersey's claim which should be
allowed and the validity and extent of her lien, or whether
New Jersey's sovereign immunity stood in the way of such
determinations. And the Circuit Court of Appeals did
not pass on these questions because it, too, was concerned
solely with the question of jurisdiction.
These issues bristle with questions of New Jersey law
on which we should not pass, even if we were to assume
they are properly here, without the benefit of the views of
judges who sit there and have a greater familiarity
with local law and local practices than we. See Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S. 232, 237; Brillhartv. Excess
Insurance Co., 316 U. S. 491, 497; Hammond v. Schappi
Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 169; Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del
Pozo, 236 U. S. 635, 656-657. And for a review of the
earlier cases, see dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis
in Railroad Commission v. Los Angeles R. Co., 280 U. S.
145, 164-165. Moreover, we are now advised that there is
presently pending before the Circuit Court of Appeals an
appeal by the Attorney General of New Jersey from an
order of the reorganization court denying leave to join the
trustee as party defendant in a suit in tlhe New Jersey
courts to determine whether there was a valid settlement of
the tax claims and to stay further determination of that
controversy in the federal court until the state courts have

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

passed on the question.15 If the Circuit Court of Appeals
orders the application granted, cf. Thompson v. Magnolia
Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478, 483; Ex parte Baldwin,
supra, p. 619, the state law phases of the controversy will
be authoritatively settled. If the other course is followed,
the issues can be resolved by the reorganization court on a
record more adequate than the present one for purposes of
review. Whatever procedure is followed, it is more fitting
that those more versed than we in the intricacies and
niceties of New Jersey law first pass on these questions.
We intimate no opinion on the merits of the settlement
controversy. Nor do we intimate any view on the amount
of the tax claim which should be allowed or on the validity,
character, priority, or extent of the lien asserted by New
Jersey, or on the manner in which it should be satisfied
in a plan for reorganization. We only hold that the reorganization court could properly entertain all objections
to the claim except those involving the valuations
underlying the assessments and the validity of those
assessments.
On the present record we do not know all the issues
that were involved in the prolonged litigation concerning
the taxes for the years in question. Hence, what we have
said is subject to the limitation that res judicatamay have
made binding on the reorganization court various questions of local law, including the amount and validity of
the taxes under New Jersey law and the character and
extent of the lien which that law affords them.
We affirm in part and reverse in part the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals and remand the cause to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
So ordered.
13 New Jersey et al. v. CentralRailroad Co. of New Jersey, No. 8808.
We are advised that by stipulation of the parties the case is being
held in the Circuit Court of Appeals until the jurisdictional question
involved in the instant case has been decided.

