OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

ANDERSON, RECEIVER, v. YUNGKAU,

EXECUTOR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 87. Argued December 19, 20, 1946.-Decided January 13, 1947.
Rule 25 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that "If
a party dies and the claim is not thereby extinguished, the court
within 2 years after the death may order substitution of the proper
parties. If substitution is not so made, the action shall be dismissed as to the deceased party." Held: More than two years

after the deaths of defendants, actions may not be revived and their
representatives substituted: and the actions should be dismissedeven though the failure to act within the specified period was the

result of "excusable neglect" within the meaning of Rule 6 (b).
Pp. 484-486.
153 F. 2d 685, affirmed.
The District Court denied motions to revive certain
actions against certain parties and substitute their legal
,representatives more than two years after the deaths of'
the original parties, and dismissed the actions under Rule
25 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 1 F. R. D.
589. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 153 F. 2d
685. Affirmed, p. 486.
Robert S. Marx argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Frank E. Wood, Harry Kasfir and
EdwardM. Brown.
LeWright Browning argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents. William J. Price,Henry G. Sandifer and
George W. Luedeke filed a brief for Henry G. Sandifer,
and H. R. Dysard filed a brief for Yungkau et al., respondents.

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

Opinion of the Court.

MR." JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are seven cases in which petitioner sued to recover
stock assessments from shareholders of the Banco Kentucky Co. They were started in 1936 in the Eastern
District of Kentucky and were stayed by agreement while
the principal case upon which these depended, Anderson v.
Abbott, 321 U. S. 349, wended its way through the courts.
In the latter case we sustained the liability of the shareholders of Banco for the stock assessment. That was in
1944. During the time Anderson v. Abbott was being litigated, the shareholders involved in the present litigation
died and respondents became executors of their estates.
Through no lack of diligence,' petitioner failed to learn of
these facts until more than two years later. Upon learning of them he promptly moved to revive the actions
against the representatives of the decedents. The District Court, following Anderson v. Brady, 1 F. R. D. 589,
denied the motions for revivor and granted motions of the
executors to dismiss. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed by a divided vote. 153 F. 2d 685. The case is here
on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted
because the case presented an important problem in the
construction of the Rules of Civil Procedure.2
1 Petitioner brought actions against approximately 5,000 shareholders scattered throughout the United States and some in foreign countries. During the progress of the litigation some changed their residences. And it was stipulated that petitioner, with a limited staff,
could not during this time keep up with the changes of residence or
deaths of defendants.
2 Cf. Ainsworth v. Gill Glass & Fixture Co., 104 F. 2d 83, with Burke
v. Canfield, 72 App. D. C. 127, 111 F.'2d 526, and Mutual Benefit
Health & Accident Assn. v. Snyder, 109 F. 2d 469.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The case involves a reconciliation of Rule 25 (a) and
Rule 6 (b). So far as material here, Rule 25 (a) provides:
"If a party dies and the claim is not thereby extinguished, the court within 2 years after the death
may order substitution of the proper parties. If substitution is not so made, the action shall be dismissed
as to the deceased party."
And the relevant part of Rule 6 (b) reads:
"When by these rules or by a notice given thereunder or by order of court an act is required or allowed
to be done at or within a specified time, the court for
cause shown may, at any time in its discretion . . .
(2) upon motion permit the act to be done after the
expiration of' the specified period where the failure
to act was the result of excusable neglect; but it may
not enlarge the period for taking any action under
Rule 59, except as stated in subdivision (c) thereof, or
the period for taking an appeal as provided by law."
It is said that since by Rule 25 (a) substitution may be
made within two years after the death of a party, substitution is, within the meaning of Rule 6 (b), an act "allowed" to be done "within a specified time" which the
court may on a showing of "excusable neglect" permit to
be done after the two-year period. That argument is
reinforced by reliance on the provision in Rule 6 (b) which
grants but two exceptions to the power of enlargement of
time. Since Rule 25 (a) is not included in the exceptions,
it is .argued that the time allowed by that rule may be
enlarged under Rule 6 (b). And it is pointed out that the
facts of the present cases establish that the failure of the
receiver to act within the two-year period was the result
of "excusable neglect,"' thus giving the District Court
discretion to allow the substitution under Rule 6 (b).
B See

note 1, aupra.

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

Opinion of the Court.

We agree, however, with the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Rule 25 (a) is based in part on 28 U. S. C. § 778, 42 Stat.
352, which limited the power of substitution to two years
from the death of a party.' And even within that twoyear period substitution could not be made unless the executor or administrator was served "before final settlement
and distribution of the estate." That statute, like other
statutes of limitations, was a statute of repose. It was
designed to keep short the time within which actions might
be revived so that the closing and distribution of estates
might not be interminably delayed.- That policy is reflected in Rule 25 (a). Even within the two-year period
substitution is not a matter of right; the court "may" order
substitution but it is under no duty to do so. Under the
Rule, as under the statute, the settlement and distribution
of the estate might be so far advanced as to warrant a denial of the motion for substitution within the two-year
period. In contrast to the discretion of the court to order
substitution within the two-year period is the provision of
Rule 25 (a) that if substitution is not made within that
time the action "shall be dismissed" as to the deceased.
The word "shall" is ordinarily "the language of command."
Escoe v. Zerbst, 295 U. S. 490, 493. And when the same
Rule uses both "may" and "shall," the normal inference is
that each is used in its usual sense-the one act being permissive, the other mandatory. See United States v.
Thoman, 156 U. S. 353,360.
Thus, as stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals, Rule
25 (a) operates both as a statute of limitations upon revivor and as a mandate to the court to dismiss an action
not revived within the two-year period. Rule 6 (b) relates
to acts required or allowed to be done by parties to an
action and permits the court to afford relief to a party for
' But see Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Joy, 173 U. S. 226; Winslow
v. Domestic Engineering Co., 20 F. Supp. 578.
3 And see H. Rep. No. 429, 67th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLxDGE, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

his failure to act within the prescribed time limits. There
would be more force in petitioner's argument if Rule 25 (a)
had, without more, set a two-year period within which substitution might be made. But Rule 25 (a) does not stop
there. It directs the court to dismiss the action if substitution has not been made within that time. That is
action required of the court, not of a party. And Rule
6 (b) should not be construed to override an express direction of action to be taken by the court. See Wallace v.
UnitedStates, 142 F. 2d 240, 244.
Reasons of policy support this construction. It is, to be
sure, stipulated that in five of the present cases the estate
is "still open and undistributed"; in one it is "still open";
in another it has been distributed. At least where an
estate is ready to be closed or where there has already
been a distribution, revivor may work unfairness and be
disruptive of orderly and expeditious administration of
estates. But it is not enough to say that if Rule 6 (b) and
Rule 25 (a) are construed to permit substitution after the
two-year period, the court need not allow it where unfairness or prejudice would result. For the normal policy
of a statute of limitations is to close the door-finally, not
qualifiedly or conditionally. The federal law embodied
in Rule 25 (a) has a direct impact on the probate of estates
in the state courts. It should not be construed to be more
disruptiv& of prompt and orderly probate administration
in those courts than its language makes necessary.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REED took no part
in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR.JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

Rule 25 (a) provides:
"If a party dies and the claim is not thereby extinguished, the court within 2 years after the death

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

RUTLEDGE,

487

J., dissenting..

may order substitution of the proper parties. If
substitution is not so made, the action shall be dismissed as to the deceased party. . ....
I agree that the rule confers discretion to-order substitution of parties, hence in appropriate circumstances to
refuse to do so and thereupon to dismiss the action. But
I do not think the discretion ends with the two-year
period.' The rule is not worded to require this and ascribing such a construction to it brings it into collision with
the express terms and the policy of Rule 6 (b). The
difference made by expiration of the period is not to convert the rule's command for dismissal from a discretionary
to a mandatory one. It is merely to narrow the conditions
under which the discretionary power shall be exercised.
' The Notes of the Advisory Committee on the original Federal
Rules state that Rule 25 (a) "is based upon Equity Rule 45 (Death of
Party-Revivor) and U. S. C., Title 28, § 778 (Death of parties;
substitution of executor or administrator)." Prior to 1921 what is
now 28 U. S. C. § 778 did not apply to suits in equity. Equity Rule 45,
with.its provision that a motion for substitution might be made within
a reasonable time," was governing. But by 42 Stat. 352 it was provided that the revival of equity suits should be by scire jacias, and
a two-year statute of limitations was made applicable. See 28
U. S. C. A. (1928) § 774 to End, p. 99, "Compiler's note."
However, in general the Rules were intended to supersede rather
than incorporate previously existing statutory or other provisions,
where the wording was different; and the committee's statement that
Rule 25 (a) "is based upon Equity Rule 45" as well as 28 U. S. C.
§ 778, together with the different wording of the rule and that section,
may indicate that the committee either considered Equity Rule 45 still
effective, for which there seems to have been some judicial authority,
see Electropure Sales Corp. v. Anglim, 21 F. Supp. 451, 452; Gaskins v.
Bonfils, 4 F. Supp. 547, 550-551, or intended to adopt it in substance
as the basis and effect of Rule 25 (a). Had the purpose been to incorporate 28 U. S. C. § 778, there would have been no necessity for changing the wording, except in relation to the scire facias procedure. See
note 10 infra and text.
2
See text at note 6 infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

I find no basis for thinking that the time limitation
prescribed by the first sentence of Rule 25 (a) was
intended to be treated differently than any other prescribed by the Rules, except those concerning which they
expressly forbid enlargement. The committee which
drafted the Rules was highly competent, spent years in
exacting preparation, and was thoroughly cognizant of
what it intended to propose concerning time limitations.
Meticulous attention was given to them. By count the
index shows 134 references to provisions relating to time
for taking various actions.
The committee knew their volume and variety. It was
conscious also of the many difficulties and injustices which
had arisen by virtue of rigid time limitations, whether laid
by statute, rule of court, or judicial decision.' The deliberately chosen policy was to do away with those rigidities
and to substitute sound discretionary limitations, except
as otherwise expressly directed.' This policy was stated
clearly, fully and I think accurately in the Rules themselves by the addition of Rule 6, of which subdivision (b)
is expressly applicable here.
By this unambiguous declaration it was provided that
"the court for cause shown may, at any time in its discretion . . . (2) upon motion permit the act to be done after

the expiration of the specified period where the failure to
11
See Rules 6 (b), (c) and 60, all of which have received wide comment. See also notes 4 and 10.
, See Proceedings of the Institute on the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure at Washington, D. C., and of the Symposium at New York
City (1939) 83-84; Proceedings of the Institute on the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure at Cleveland (1938) 210-211; Hearings before the
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives with
Regard to the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of thp
United States, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., 60.

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

RUmEDGE, J., dissenting.

act was the result of excusable neglect." I This was applicable in any situation "when by these rules or by a notice
given thereunder or by order of court an act is required

or allowed to be done at or within a specified period," with
two and only two exceptions. These were to forbid enlarging the time for taking any action under Rule 59, except as stated in subdivision (c) thereof, and the period
for taking appeal. Rule 73. The forbidden enlargements under Rule 59 involve matters concerning the
granting of new trials.
In those two respects and in them alone the time limitation was made, and was intended to be, "jurisdictional."
For the rest, the courts were to exercise discretion. It
is to be emphasized that the limits of discretion fixed
for enlarging time after the prescribed periods were narrowed by requiring that enlargement be made, if at all,
only upon motion and only upon showing that the failure to act within time was due to excusable neglect.'
5The rule in full is as follows:
"Rule, 6 (b) ENLARGEMENT. When by these rules or by a notice
given thereunder or by order of court an act is required or allowed
to be done at or within a specified time, the court for cause shown may,
at any time in its discretion (1) with or without motion or notice,
order the period enlarged if application therefor is made before the
expiration of the period originally prescribed or as extended by a
previous order or (2) upon motion permit the act to be done after
the expiration of the specified period where the failure to act was the
result of excusable neglect; but it may not enlarge the period for
taking any action under Rule 59, except as stated in subdivision (c)
thereof, or the period for taking an appeal as provided by law."
6 See note 5. If Rule 25 (a) constitutes in effect a statute of limitations, as the Court holds, it may be inquired whether, even upon proper
application made within the two-year period under Rule 6 (b) (1),
see note 5, the Court could enlarge the time by extension, as seems
clearly contemplated by the clause "or as extended by a previous
order."

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

Those limitations were applicable here, in my opinion, and
admittedly they were satisfied.
Rule 6, including subdivisions (b) and (c), was thus a
general and a carefully drawn declaration of paramount
policy for the application of limitations of time. It made
no distinction between rules governing actions to be taken
by the parties and actions to be taken by the courts.7 It
made no exceptions other than the two expressly set forth.
This Court approved the rule as drawn and Congress allowed it to become law without modification. To assume
or to rule that additional-exceptions were intended is to
assume that the committee, the Court and Congress overlooked others which should have been stated in Rule 6 (b)
or did not intend the declared policy of that section to be
effective fully according to its terms. I am unable to
accept either conclusion. If we may make an additional
exception forbidding enlargement of time in cases covered
by Rule 25 (a) in the face of the express provision of Rule
6 (b), there is no reason why others may not also be made,
and thus the salutary policy of Rule 6 (b) be defeated.8
7See note 5. The rules are replete with provisions for action to be
taken within specified periods by the courts upon their own initiative
as well as upon motion by the parties. Rule 6 (b) is itself an illustration. Certainly it cannot be said, in view of the rule's comprehensive language, that it applies only to actions to be taken by the
parties and has no application to the large number of instances in
which limitations of time are imposed for action to be taken by the
courts. Such a construction would bring back many of the evils the
Rules were designed to-avoid. It would defeat perhaps as many of the
literal and intended applications of Rule 6 (b) as it would preserve.
Rule 6 (c) is as follows: "The period of time provided for the doing
of any act or the taking of any proceeding is not affected or limited
by the expiration of a term of court. The expiration of a term of
court in no way affects the power of a court to do any act or take any
proceeding in any civil action which has been pending before it."
1The Advisory Committee in its Report of Proposed Amendments
to the Rules of Civil Procedure (1946) 2-6 points out that District
Courts and Circuit Courts of Appeals in some cases have refused to

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

RUTh ME,

J., dissenting.

The considerations of policy said to support the decision
would be grounds either for the district court's consideration in determining whether to deny enlargement in the
exercise of its discretion or for amendment of Rule 6 (b)
so as to exclude such cases as this.' They are not a basis
in my opinion for changing that rule by interpretation
or for opening the door to further restrictive amendments
of Rule 6 (b) in this respect by that process. If this is to
be done, it should be by the prescribed rule-making procedure. Indeed the Advisory Committee, in the recently
proposed amendments to the rule, has recommended that
Rule 25 (a) be rephrased so as to eliminate any question
that the rule has the meaning ascribed to it in this opinion. And its note appended to the recommendation states
that the purpose is to guard against injustices likely to
result from a flat two-year limitation." In my opinion
apply Rule 6 (b) to other Rules as well as Rule 25 (a), see, e. g.,
Wallace v. United States, 142 F. 2d 240; Reed v. South Atlantic S. S.
Co., 2 F. R. D. 475; Mutual Benefit Health & Accident Assn. v.
Snyder, 109 F. 2d 469; cf. Burke v. Canfield, 72 App. D. C. 127, 111
F. 2d 526, though other cases have ruled the other way. See, e. g.,
&hram v. O'Connor, 2 F. R. D. 192, 194; Ainsworth v. Gill Glass &
Fixture Co., 104 F. 2d 83.
9But see note 10 and text.
10
Report of Proposed Amendments to Rules of Civil Procedure
for the District Courts of the United States (1946) 31-32.
The revision of Rule 25 (a) recommended by the committee reads
as follows, the revised matter appearing in italics: "If a party dies and
the claim is not thereby extinguished, the court upon applicationmade
within 2 years after the death shall order substitution of the proper
parties. If the applicationis made after-2 years the court may order
substitution but only upon the showing of a reasonable excuse for
failure to apply within that period. If substitution is not so made,
the action shall be dismissed as to the deceased party ......
The committee appends the following comment: "This amendment
guards against possible injustice in a case where there is some reasonable excuse for not applying for substitution within the 2-year period.
It has been held that the court has no power to permit substitution
after the expiration of the 2-year limit, irrespective of the circum-

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RutnrDGE, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

the committee's action and the reasons given for it confirm,
rather than disavow, the section's originally intended
meaning.
This case is an illustration of the kinds of injustice
the committee sought to avoid. And the considerations
of policy are not altogether one-sided. The effect of the
decision in such a case as this is not only to throw an admittedly impossible burden upon the party seeking without neglect to enforce his cause of action. It is also to
throw upon other parties, equally helpless, a heavier burden of financial loss, whether by depriving them of rightful recovery or by forcing them, in some instances at least,
to bear a larger share of the common responsibility."
stances. Winkelman v. General Motors Corp. (S. D. N. Y. 1939)
30 F. Supp. 112; Anderson v. Brady (E. D. Ky. 1941) 4 Fed. Rules
Serv. 25a.1, Case 1; Photometric Products Corp. v. Radtke (S. D.
N. Y. 1946) 9 Fed. Rules Serv. 25a.3, Case 1; Anderson v. Yungkatt
(C. C. A. 6th, 1946) 153 F. (2d) 685, cert. granted (1946) 66 S. Ct.
1025."
In its comment relating to Rule 6'(b), pp. 2-3, the committee
states: "In a number of cases the effect of Rule 6 (b) on the time
limitations of these rules has been considered. Certainly the rule
is susceptible of the interpretation that the court is given the power
in its discretion to relieve a party from failure to act within the times
specified in any of these other rules, with only the exceptions stated
in Rule 6 (b), and in some cases the rule has been so construed."
"With regard to Rule 25 (a) for substitution, it was held in Anderson
v. Brady (E. D. Ky. 1941) 4 Fed. Rules Service 25a.1, Case 1, and in
Anderson v. Yungkau (C. C. A. 6th, 1946) 153 F. (2d) 685, cert.
granted (1946) 66 S. Ct. 1025, that under Rule 6 (b) the court had
no authority to allow substitution of parties after the expiration of
the limit fixed in Rule 25 (a)."
"The statutory liability of shareholders in national banking associations was created by 12 U. S. C. §§ 63, 64. By § 63 the shareholder
was made "individually responsible, equally and ratably and not one
for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, to the extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par

ANDERSON v. YUNGKAU.
482

RUTLEDGE,

493

J., dissenting.

In my opinion the judgment should be reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court for the exercise
of the discretion given by the Rules.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON joins in this dissent.
value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares

...

"

(Emphasis added.) By § 64 the shareholder was made "individually
responsible for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, each to the amount of his stock therein, at the par value thereof
in addition to the amount invested in such stock."
To what extent § 64 may have modified § 63 has been disputed.
See American Trust Co. v. Grut, 80 F. 2d 155; FirstNat. Bank v. First
Nat. Bank, 14 F. 2d 129. But in Anderson v. Abbott we said: "It is
sufficient at this time to state that the liability of the shareholders
of Banco would be measured by the number of shares of stock of the
Bank, whether several or only fractional, represented by each share
of stock of Banco; and that the assessment liability of each share of
stock of Banco would be a like proportion of the assessment liability
of the shares of the Bank represented by the former." 321 U. S. 349,
368-369. And in Frank v. Giesy, 117 F. 2d 122, 125, it was held that
the omission in § 64 of the pro rata limitation of § 63 was intended
to strengthen the position of creditors, making each shareholder's
liability several and fully enforceable though others go free. In First
Nat. Bank v. First Nat. Bank, supra, the shareholder made to pay
was held entitled to enforce contribution against others not proceeded
against. The shareholder's liability is secondary only, McClaine v.
Rankin, 197 U. S. 154, 161; FirstNational Bank v. Nichols, 294 Mass.
173, 181, 200 N. E. 869, and though one is not relieved either wholly or
in part because others are not compelled to pay, neither is any required
to pay more proportionately than is needed from the fund actually
collected to discharge the bank's obligations. Bank of Ware Shoals
v. Martin, 17 F. Supp. 61, 63. The liability is not a debt but is one
merely assuring payment of the bank's obligations. McClaine v.
Rankin, supra.
The Court's decision therefore in effect cuts off any possibility
shareholders forced to pay may have for reduction of the amounts
of their payments either through the receiver's enforcement of the
liability directly against decedent shareholders' estates or by seeking
contribution from them after the two-year period. And this is done
regardless of the estate's comparative ability to pay, of whether it is in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

an early or a late stage of administration, and of when the death occurs.
Thus, in these cases, only one estate has been closed and one other is
nearing .that stage; but so far as appears the other five remain open
and undistributed.
The suits were begun in 1936. Eight years were taken up for litigation of the principal issue of liability in Anderson v. Abbott, 8upra.
That liability having been established after so long a time, now eleven
years after the suits were instituted this decision comes to nullify it
in substantial part and effect. The result, in my opinion, is quite
as much to make the protection afforded by these statutes turn on
accidents of life and death in some instances, perhaps in many, at
variance with the nature of the liability and its fair administration,
as other distinctions were said in the Anderson case to make the
protection turn on irrelevant accidents. 321 U. S. at 367.

