CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
156

Counsel for Parties.

cause they passed through a bankruptcy court. In the
absence of bankruptcy such differences are the familiar
results of a federal system having forty-eight diverse
codes of local law. These differences inherent in our
federal scheme the day before a bankruptcy are not wiped
out or transmuted the day after.

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 36. Argded November 15, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
1. In reviewing on writ of error a conviction for murder in which it
was claimed that the right to counsel had been denied contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment, a state supreme court, in accordance
with local practice, whereby it could consider only the common law
record, concluded that, after being fully advised of his rights, the
accused had consciously chosen to dispense with counsel and to plead
guilty. Factors such as racial handicap of the accused, his mental
incapacity, his inability to make an intelligent choice, or precipitancy in the acceptance of a plea of guilty-which might show
fundamental unfairness in the proceedings before the trial judgewere not before the state supreme court in this proceeding. Held:
On this record, to which review in this Court is confined, there is
no showing of a denial of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786, distinguished. Pp. 177-180.
2. Designation of counsel to assist defendant at time of sentencing
does not imply that he was not capable of intelligent self-protection
when he pleaded guilty. Pp. 178-179.
391 Ill. 594, 63 N. E. 2d 763, affirmed.

The Supreme Court of Illinois sustained a conviction
for murder. 391 Ill. 594, 63 N. E. 2d 763. This Court
granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 827. Affirmed, p. 180.
Stephen A. Mitchell argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1928 petitioner pleaded guilty to an indictment for
murder and was sentenced to imprisonment for 99 years.
In 1945 he brought a petition for his release on writ of error in the Supreme Court of Illinois claiming that the conviction on which his confinement was based was vitiated
by the denial of his right under the Fourteenth Amendment to the assistance of counsel. The Supreme Court of
Illinois affirmed the original judgment of conviction. 391
Ill. 594, 63 N. E. 2d 763. In view of the importance of the
claim, if valid, we brought the case here. 328 U. S. 827.
In a series of cases of which Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S.
86, was the first, and Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 327 U. S. 274,
the latest, we have sustained an appeal to the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment for Le fair ascertainment of guilt or innocence. Inherent in the notion of fairness is ample opportunity to meet an accusation. Under
pertinent circumstances, the -opportunity is ample only
when an accused has the assistance of counsel for his defense. And the need for such assistance may exist at
every stage of the prosecution, from arraignment to sentencing. This does not, however, mean that the accused
may not make his own defense; nor does it prevent him
from acknowledging guilt when fully advised of all its implications, and capable of understanding them. Neither
the historic conception of Due Process nor the vitality it
derives from progressive standards of justice denies a person the right to defend himself or to confess guilt. Under
appropriate circumstances the Constitution requires that
counsel be tendered; it does not require that under all cir-

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

Opinion of the Court.

cumstances counsel be forced upon a defendant. United
States ex rel. McCann v. Adams, 320 U. S. 220.
The solicitude for securing justice thus embodied in the
Due Process Clause is not satisfied by formal compliance or
merely procedural regularity. It is not conclusive that
the proceedings resulting in incarceration are unassailable
on the face of the record. A State must give one whom it
deprives of his freedom the opportunity to open an inquiry
into the intrinsic fairness of a criminal process even though
it appears proper on the surface. Mooney v. Holohan,294
U. S. 103. Questions of fundamental justice protected by
the Due Process Clause may be raised, to use lawyers'
language, dehors the record.
But the Due Process Clause has never been perverted
so as to force upon the forty-eight States a uniform code
of criminal procedure. Except for the limited scope of the
federal criminal code, the prosecution of crime is a matter
for the individual States. The Constitution commands
the States to assure faii judgment. Procedural details for
securing fairness it leaves to the States. It is for them,
therefore, to choose the methods and practices by which
crime is brought to book, so long as they observe those ultimate dignities of man which the United States Constitution assures. Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 175;
Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31. Wide discretion must
be left to the States for the manner of adjudicating a claim
that a conviction is unconstitutional. States are free to
devise their own systems of review in criminal cases. A
State may decide whether to have direct appeals in such
cases, and if so under what circumstances. McKane v.
Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687. In respecting the duty laid
upon them by Mooney v. Holohan, States have a wide
choice of remedies. A State may provide that the protection of rights granted by the Federal Constitution be
sought through the writ of habeas corpus or coram nobis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

It may use each of these ancient writs in its common law
scope, or it may put them to new uses; or it may afford
remedy by a simple motion brought either in the court of
original conviction or at the place of detention.- See, e. g.,
New York ex rel. Whitman v. Wilson, 318 U. S. 688; Matter of Lyons v. GoldstVin, 290 N. Y. 19, 25, 47 N. E. 2d 425;
Matter of Morhous v. N. Y. SupreVne Court, 293 N. Y. 131,
56 N. E. 2d 79; People v. Gersewitz, 294 N. Y. 163, 168, 61
N. E. 2d 427; Matter of Hogan v. Court of General Sessions, 296 N. Y. 1, 9, 68 N. E. 2d 849. So long as the rights
under the United States Constitution may be pursued, it
is for a State and not for this Court to define the mode by
which they may be vindicated.
An accused may have been denied the assistance of
counsel under circumstances which constitute an infringement of the United States Constitution. If the State affords no mode for redressing that wrong, he may come to
the federal courts for relief. But where a remedy is provided by the State, a defendant must first exhaust it in the
manner in which the State prescribes. Ex parte Hawk,
321 U. S. 114; House v. Mayo, 324 U. S. 42. For the relation of the United States and the courts of the United
States to the States and the courts of the States is a very
delicate matter. See Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251.
When a defendant, as here, invokes a remedy provided by
the State of Illinois, the decision of the local court must
be judged on the basis of the scope of the remedy provided
and what the court properly had before it in sfich a proceeding. Woods v. Nierstheimer, 328 U. S. 211. The
only thing before the Illinois Sujpreme Court was what
is known under Illinois practice as the common law record.
That record, as certified in this case, included only the
indictment, the judgment on plea of guilty, the minute
entry bearing on sentence, and the sentence. And so the
very narrow question now before us is whether this common law record establishes that the defendant's sentence is

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

Opinion of the Court.

void because in the proceedings that led to it he was denied
the assistance of counsel.
This case is quite different from a case like Rice v.
Olson, 324 U. S. 786. In that case the record properly before this Court contained specific allegations bearing on
the disabilities of the defendant to stand prosecution without the aid of counsel. There was not, as we have here,
an unchallenged finding by the trial court that the accused
was duly apprised of his rights and, in awareness of them,
chose to plead guilty. The judgment against Carter
explicitly states:
"And the said defendant Harice Leroy Carter commonly known as Roy Carter having been duly arraigned and being called upon to plead expresses a
desire to plead guilty to the crime of murder as
charged in the indictment. Thereupon the Court
fully explained to the Defendant Harice Leroy Carter
commonly known as Roy Carter the consequence of
such plea and of all his rights in the premises including the right to have a lawyer appointed by the Court
to defend him and also of his right to a trial before a
jury of twelve jurors sworn in open Court and of the
degree of proof that would be required to justify a verdict of guilty against him under the plea of not guilty
but the defendant Harice Leroy Carter commonly

known as Roy Carter persists in his desire to plead
guilty and for a plea says he is guilty in manner and
form as charged in the indictmeht."
This, then, is not a case in which intelligent waiver of
counsel is a tenuous inference from the mere fact of a plea
of guilty. Rice v. Olson, supra,at 788. A fair reading of
the judgment against Carter indicates a judicial attestation that the accused, with his rights fully explained to
him, consciously chose to dispense with counsel. And
there is nothing in the record to contradict the judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

finding. From the common law record, we do not know
what manner of man the defendant was. Facts bearing on
his maturity or capacity of comprehension, or on the circumstances under which a plea of guilty was tendered and
accepted, are wholly wanting. We have only the fact that
the trial judge explained what the plea of guilty involved.
To be sure, the record does not show that the trial court
spelled out with laborious detail the various degrees of
homicide under Illinois law and the various defenses open
to one accused of murder. But the Constitution of the
United States does not require of a judge that he recite
with particularity that he performed his duty.
The only peg on which the defendant seeks to hang a
claim that his right to counsel was denied is the fact that
the judge did assign him counsel when it came to sentencing. From this fact alone, we are asked to draw the
inference that the accused was not capable of understanding the proceedings which led to his plea of guilty, and was
therefore deprived of the indispensable assistance of counsel. We cannot take such a jump in reasoning. A trial
court may justifiably be convinced that a defendant
knows what he is about when he pleads guilty and that he
rightly believes that a trial is futile because a defense is
wanting. But the imposition of sentence presents quite
different considerations. There a judge usually moves
within a large area of discretion and doubts. Such is the
situation under Illinois law. The range of punishment
which a judge in Illinois may impose for murder is between fourteen years and death. It is a commonplace that
no more difficult task confronts judges than the determination of punishment not fixed by statute. Even the
..most self-assured judge may well want to bring to his aid
every consideration that counsel for the accused can appropriately urge. In any event, th designation of counsel to assist the accused at the sentencing stage of the

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

Opinion of the Court.

prosecution in no wise implies that the defendant was not
capable of intelligent self-protection when he pleaded
guilty. Cf. Canizio v. New York, 327 U. S. 82.
We conclude that on the record before the Supreme
Court of Illinois there was no showing that Carter's plea
of guilty was made under circumstances which cut the
ground from under the resulting sentence. In restricting
its review to that record the Supreme Court of Illinois
followed local practice, and the practice constitutes allowable State appellate procedure. Factors that might suggest fundamental unfairness in the proceedings before the
trial judge-e. g., the racial handicap of the defendant, his
mental incapacity, his inability to make an intelligent
choice, precipitancy in the acceptance of a plea of guiltyare not before us because they were not in the common
law record which was all that was before the Supreme
Court of Illinois. Whether the defendant is entitled to
press such claims to show a denial by the State of Illinois
of a constitutional right, it will be time enough to consider
when that issue is properly before us after being presented
in a proceeding in the State courts appropriate to that
purpose, or, if none is available, in a federal court. Woods
v. Nierstheimer,supra;Ex parteHawk, supra,
After indicating the restricted scope of review in this
proceeding, the court below observed that under Illinois
law a defendant who desires counsel must ask for it and
show that he cannot afford one of his own choice. There
,%re situations when justice cannot be administered unless
persons charged with crime are defended by capable and
responsible counsel. But there is nothing in the record
before us to indicate that the circumstances made it necessary for Carter to have professional guidance other than
that given by the trial court. There is therefore nothing
in the statement of the Illinois Supreme Court alone from
which we can infer that these normal requirements of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

Illinois law prejudiced this defendant or made their
observance in this case incongruous with his constitutional
rights.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur, dissenting.

If, as the opinion of the Court suggests, the Illinois
Supreme Court had ruled that petitioner could not raise
the question of his right to counsel by reason of the abbreviated common law record, I would agree that the judgment should be affirmed. For then petitioner would be
remitted to other state procedures for vindication of his
constitutional right. The Illinois Supreme Court rested
on that ground when it refused to consider his claim that
he was deprived of due process of law by reason of the
method of his arrest and the unfairness of the trial. But
when it came to consider the question of his right to counsel, the inadequacy of the record was not the ground it gave
for barring him from showing that he was unqualified to
waive the constitutional right:
"His first contention is that the court erred in not
appointing an attorney to represent him during arraignment. The right to be represented by counsel
is one which the defendant may waive or claim, as he
shall determine. No duty rests upon the court to
provide legal assistance for an accused, unless he
states, under his oath, his inability to procure counsel,
and expresses a desire to have the court appoint one
for him. (People v. Braner, 389 Ill. 190; People v.
Corrie, 387 Ill. 587; People v. Childers, 386 Ill. 312.)
There being no bill of exceptions, and it not appearing that plaintiff in error sought to have an attorney
appointed for him, this assignment of error cannot

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

DouGL s, J., dissenting.

be sustained. People v. Stubblefield, post, p. 609;
People v. Stack, ante, p. 15; People v. Braner,389 Ill.
190." 391 Ill. 594, 595; 63 N. E. 2d 763, 764.
By the rule there announced the record was inadequate
only in one respect-the absence of a bill of exceptions
showing that petitioner asked that an attorney be appointed for him. But that neglect by a defendant is not
fatal, at least in a capital case. If a defendant is not
capable of making his own defense, it is the duty of the
court to appoint counsel, whether requested so to do or not.
Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471, 476. *As we stated in
that case, pp. 475-476:
"The decision to plead guilty is a decision to allow a
judgment of conviction to be entered without a hearing-a decision which is irrevocable and which forecloses any possibility of establishing innocence. If we
assume that petitioner committed a crime, we cannot
know the degree of prejudice which the denial of
counsel caused. See Glasser v. United States, 315
U. S. 60, 75-76. Only counsel could discern from
the facts whether a plea of not guilty to the offense
charged or a plea of guilty to a lesser offense would
be appropriate. A layman is usually no match for
the skilled prosecutor whom he confronts in the court
room. He needs the aid of counsel lest he be the
victim of overzealous prosecutors, of the law's complexity, or of his own ignorance or bewilderment."
Therefore the least which we should do is to vacate this
judgment and remand the case to the Illinois Supreme

Court. For as MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

points out, there is

ample evidence in the record, certified to us from that
court, to support petitioner's claim that he was not capable
of making his defense. If that evidence may be considered in this proceeding, petitioner should prevail. Though

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

the basis of the action of the Illinois Supreme Court be
deemed less clear than I have indicated, a remand to it
would be appropriate so that any state procedural question may be untangled from the question arising under
the Federal Constitution. See State Tax Commission v.
Van Cott, 306 U. S. 511.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting.

The admitted facts of this case plainly reveal that the
petitioner has not been convicted of murder and sentenced
to 99 years in prison in accordance with due process of law.
Rather he has been deprived of his freedom for life without the aid of an attorney to guide hiin along the complicated and twisting labyrinths of the law. And there is
no affirmative indication that he intelligently waived his
right to counsel or that he understood the intricate legal
problems involved in his indictment and conviction. Due
process cannot thrive in the absence of such evidence.
There is an initial problem as to what evidence is before
this Court at this time. It is said that we are limited to
the common law record before the Supreme Court of Illinois, a record that includes only the indictment, the judgment on the plea of guilty, the minute entry bearing on
the sentence, and the sentence itself. We are asked to
close our eyes to a transcript of testimony in connection
with a hearing on mitigation of the offense. This testimony was taken after the conviction. It has been certified,
presumably by the stenographer recording the testimony
at the hearing, and notarized. It appears in the printed
record before this Court. We are also asked to overlook
certain information about the petitioner given to the Illinois State Penitentiary by the State's attorney and concurred in by the presiding judge. The State of Illinois does
not deny any of these facts; it merely requests that we disregard them as did the Supreme Court of Illinois, that we
blind ourselves to what is printed in the record before us.

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Legal technicalities doubtless afford justification for our
pretense of ignoring plain facts before us, facts upon which
a man's very life or liberty conceivably could depend.
Morebver, there probably is legal warrant for our not remanding the case to the Supreme Court of Illinois to allow
those facts to be incorporated in the formal record before
it and to reconsider its decision in light thereof. But the
result certainly does not enhance the high traditions of
the judicial process.
In my view, when undisputed facts appear in the record
before us in a case involving a man's life or liberty, they
should not be ignored if justice demands their use. Here
the facts in question fortunately are not crucial, since the
bare common law record alone reveals a lack of due process.
But the additional facts do serve to emphasize the absence
of an intelligent waiver of counsel and petitioner's failure
to comprehend the legal problems placed in his path.
They serve to make any decision on the issue in the case
more intelligent and more just. The discussion that follows, therefore, is based on all the certified facts in the
record before us.
Petitioner, a Negro, was 30 years of age at the time of
the relevant events in 1928. He had no schooling, although he was able to read and write. He was of average
mentality and had never before run afoul of the law. During the preceding eleven years he had worked as a cook
and a mechanic. By reputation he was quiet and
industrious.
While driving a car back from a fishing trip, petitioner
became involved in a bitter and prolonged dispute with
the driver of a horse-drawn gravel wagon over the rightof-way on a road. This driver, a white man, refused to
give petitioner enough room to pass. A violent argument
in racial terminology ensued; rocks and gravel were
thrown at petitioner's car. Eventually, when the dispute
was renewed after a short interval, the driver got off his

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

wagon and advanced toward petitioner's car. Petitioner
claimed that he thought the driver was reaching into his
shirt for a gun. Petitioner got out of his car and fired
three times, killing the driver.
Petitioner was taken into custody that same evening
and was questioned far into the night. He was taken to
an adjoining town, allegedly to avoid mob violence.
Twelve days later, on June 12, 1928, he was indicted. It
was charged that he "did then and there unlawfully and
feloniously, with malice aforethought, by shooting, kill"
the named individual. On June 15 he was arraigned without the benefit of counsel, it being alleged by petitioner
that he was held incommunicado from the time of his
arrest. He was handed a copy of the five-page indictment, under which he could have been convicted of firstdegree murder, lesser degrees of homicide, voluntary or
involuntary manslaughter, assault with a deadly weapon,
or lesser degrees of assault. Various considerations of
defense, including self-defense, were accordingly raised.
Upon being asked how he pleaded, he expressed a desire
to plead guilty as charged in the indictment. The trial
court's order, which bears striking resemblance to the Illinois statute on the subject (Ill. Rev. Stat., 1945, Ch. 38,
par. 732), recited that the judge "fully explained" to petitioner "the consequence of such plea" and his rights to
counsel and to jury trial, but that petitioner "persists in
his desire to plead guilty" as charged. There is no affirmative evidence that petitioner understood the necessary consequences of his plea or that, fully appreciating all of his
legal rights, he intelligently waived his rights to counsel
or to jury trial. All that appears is that he "persisted"
in his desire to plead guilty and that the court convicted
him of murder, the statutory punishment for which was
death by electrocution or imprisonment for any period
from fourteen years to life.

CARTER v. ILLINOIS.
173

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

A further hearing was held on the same day and an
attorney was appointed, apparently not at petitioner's
request, to represent petitioner at a hearing upon the
"question of mitigation or aggravation of said crime of
murder to which said defendant has pleaded guilty."
Such'a hearing was required by state law (Ill. Rev. Stat.,
1945, Ch. 38., par. 732) where a guifty plea has been entered
and where the court has discretion as to the extent of the
punishment. A hearing on this matter was held three.
days later, on June 18, petitioner's appointed counsel being
present. On June 29, in the absence of counsel, petitioner
appeared in court and was sentenced to serve 99 years in
prison.
I do not believe that these facts add up to due process
of law. Petitioner, an uneducated, bewildered layman,
was allegedly held incommunicado for fifteen days and was
then called upon to make a vital decision upon the basis of
his unintelligent understanding of the indictment-a legalistic, verbose document of five pages which would doubtless mean many things to many learned lawyers in light
of the particular facts involved. Petitioner's very life and
liberty depended upon his ability to comprehend the
variety of crimes covered by the indictment and which
one, if any, applied to the facts of his case. He was compelled to weigh the factors involved in a guilty plea against
those resulting from the submission of his case to a jury.
He was forced to judge the chances of setting up a successful defense. These are all complicated matters that only
a man versed in the legal lore could hope to comprehend
and to decide intelligently. Petitioner obviously was not
of that type. Yet at this crucial juncture petitioner
lacked the aid and guidance of such a person. In my view,
it is a gross miscarriage of justice to condemn a man to
death or to life imprisonment in such a manner. See
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45; Williams v. Kaiser, 323
U. S. 471; Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

It is said, of course, that petitioner waived his right to
counsel. My answer is that such action is immaterial
in a capital case of this nature without affirmative evidence
of an intelligent waiver. Such evidence is non-existent
here, even looking solely at the common law record. Its
absence becomes even more emphasized when we view
the background of ignorance, racial antagonism and
threats of mob violence. When the life of a man hangs
in the balance, we should insist upon the fullest measure
of due process. Society is here attempting to take away
the life or liberty of one of its members. That attempt
must be tested by the highest standards of justice and fairness that we know. It is no excuse that the individual is
willing to forego certain basic rights, unless we are certain
that he has a full and intelligent comprehension of what
he is doing. Otherwise we take from due process of law
a substantial part of its content.
Nor is it significant that counsel was appointed for petitioner to represent him at the hearing as to the mitigation
of the offense. The error was done, the damage was committed, when petitioner was arraigned, compelled to plead
and convicted without the assistance of counsel. The
special hearing on mitigation held thereafter, for which
counsel was provided, afforded no opportunity for undoing the effect of the unaided arraignment or plea of guilty.
Cf. Canizio v. New York, 327 U. S. 82. The failure to have
counsel in regard to those matters permeated the entire
proceeding, with indelible effdcts that could not be removed at the special hearing., Due process of la* still
was lacking.
Insistence upon counsel at all stages of a capital case,
where an intelligent waiver is lacking, imposes no intolerable burden upon the law enforcement process. It is
merely a recognition of our attempt to be civilized, a recognition that the process of condemning human life is to be

BALLARD v. UNITED STATES.
173

187

Syllabus.

judged by standards higher than those applied to a prosecution for violation of a minor ordinance or regulation.
I would therefore reversethe judgment below.
BALLARD

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 37.

Argued October 15, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.

1. In a State where women are eligible for jury servite under local law,
a federal jury panel from which women are intentionally and systematically excluded is not properly constituted and this Court will
exercise its power of supervision over the administration of justice
in the federal courts to correct the error. Thiel v. Southern Pacific
Co., 328 U. S. 217. Pp. 190-196.
(a) Sections 275-278 of the Judicial Code reflect a design to make
the jury a cross-section of the community and truly representative of
'it. P. 191.
(b) The system of jury selection which Congress has adopted
contemplates that juries in federal courts sitting in States where
women are eligible for jury service under local law will be representative of both sexes. P. 191.
(c) The systematio and intentional exclusion of women, like the
exclusion of a racial group or an economic or social class, deprives
the jury system of the broad base it was designed by Congress to
have. P. 195.
2. When a jury in a criminal case is drawn from a panel not properly
constituted, reversible error does not depend on a showing of prejudice in an individual case; since the injury is not limited to the
defendant but extends to the jury system, to the law as an institution, to the community at large, and to the democratic ideal reflected in the processes of our courts. P. 195.
3. When this Court finds that a petit jury Was drawn from an improper
panel, it will remand the case for a new trial; but when it finds that
the grand jury which returned an indictment was drawn from such a
panel, the indictment must be dismissed. Ppr. 195-196.
4. An issue properly raised on the record by defendants in a criminal
case in a Federal District Court and assigned as error'on appeal was
not passed on by the, Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing the

