OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

only to be put to one side because "here a different question is presented." 317 U. S. at 175. It was again put
aside in Altvater v. Freeman, 319 U. S. 359, 364.' The
question which those cases did not have to meet should
now be met otherwise than by disregard. The Court's
essential reasoning would apply equally where the license
never attempted to fix prices. If a doctrine that was vital
law for more than ninety years will be found to have now
been deprived of life, we ought at least to give it decent
public burial.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT,
TAX COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
No. 75.

Argued December. 12, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.

Under § 5495, Ohio Gen. Code, Ohio levied a franchise tax on appellant
for the "privilege of doing business" in the State. Appellant owns
and operates several factories, sales agencies, warehouses, and retail
stores in Ohio and numerous factories, sales agencies, and retail
stores in other States. Goods manufactured in Ohio are sold partly
in Ohio and partly in other States. Some goods manufactured in
other States are sold by appellant's sales agencies in Ohio to customers in Ohio. Under § 5498, Ohio Gen. Code, the tax base is
computed as follows: The total value of the taxpayer's issued
capital stock is divided in half. One half is multiplied by a fraction,
whose numerator is the value of all the taxpayer's property in Ohio
and whose denominator is the total value of all its property wherever located. The other half is multiplied by a fraction whose
numerator is the total value of "business done" in Ohio and whose
denominator is the total value of business done everywhere. The
sum of these two products is the tax base. Held:
I Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalus Co., 326 U. S. 249, went on the
ground that an earlier expired patent had put the device in question
into the public domain.

HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT.
416

Counsel for Parties.

1. This does not constitute a tax on sales made outside Ohio in
violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
since it is a franchise tax for the privilege of doing business in the
State. Pp. 419-421.
(a) The fact that the State chose to measure the tax on the
business of manufacturing done in the State by the value of the
products (including those sold out of thp State) does not transform
the tax on that business to a tax on sales out of the State. P. 420.
(b) Treatment of sales within Ohio of products manufactured
elsewhere as "business done" in Ohio did not result in iaxing out-ofstate or interstate transactions or sales in violation of the Due
Process Clause, since the business of Ohio sales agencies and their
sales to Ohio customers were intrastate activities. Pp. 420-421.
2. The tax does not violate the Commerce Clause, since the purpose of the formula was to arrive at a fair conclusion as to what
was the value of the intrastate business and it has not been
demonstrated that it achieves an unfair result. Pp. 421-423.
(a) A State's tax law is not to be nullified merely because the
result is achieved through a formula. which includes consideration
of interstate and out-of-state transa(tions in their relation to the
intrastate privilege. P. 423.
(b) No multiplication of this tax through its imposition by
other States is involved, since the tax is levied only against the privilege of doing local business of manufacturing and selling in Ohio and
no other State can tax that privilege. P. 423.
146 Ohio St. 58, 64 N. E. 2d 53, affirmed.

The Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed a decision of Ohio's
Board of Tax Appeals fixing the amount owed by appellant
for its state corporation franchise tax assessed pursuant to

§§ 5495-5499, Ohio Gen. Code.
2d 53.

146 Ohio St. 58, 64 N. E.

Affirmed, p. 423.

EdwardR. Lewis and Joseph J. Daniels argued the cause
for appellant. With them on the brief was Paul N.

Rowe.
Aubrey A. Wendt argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

329 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed a decision of that
State's Board of Tax Appeals fixing the amount owed by
appellant for its state corporation franchise tax for the
years 1935 to 1940, inclusive. 146 Ohio State 58, 64 N. E.
2d 53. In affirming, the Ohio court rejected appellant's
contention that the controlling tax act, §§ 5495-5499,
Ohio Gen. Code, as applied to appellant, was in violation
of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
and the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution.
The case is here on appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 344. Appellant repeats its arguments as to invalidity of the tax, but
only as to the years 1937 to 1940, inclusive.
Section 5495 of the Ohio Gen. Code provides that each
foreign corporation authorized to do business in the State
must pay a tax or fee for the "privilege of doing business"
or "owning or using a part or all of its capital or property"
or "holding a certificate . . . authorizing it to do business

in this state." It is not denied that appellant owed a f ranchise tax under this section, for it held a certificate to do
business in Ohio during all the years in question. It also
owned and operated two large factories at Springfield,
Ohio, which produced millions of dollars worth of goods.
And it operated four branch selling establishments associated with four warehouses, and fourteen retail stores, all
located at various places in Ohio, which stored and sold
goods produced at the Ohio factory.
But appellant also owns and operates sixteen factories,
nearly a hundred selling agencies, and numerous retail
stores in other states. Goods produced at its Ohio factories
are not only sold in Ohio, but in addition, are shipped for
storage to out-of-Ohio warehouses to be sold by out-ofOhio selling agencies to out-of-Ohio customers. Some are
shipped directly to out-of-Ohio customers on orders from
out-of-Ohio selling agencies. Conversely, goods manufactured by appellant out-of-Ohio are shipped to its Ohio

HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT.
416

419'

Opinion of the Court.

warehouses, and sold by its Ohio selling agencies to Ohio
customers. Appellant's claim is that the amount of the
tax assessed against it has been determined in such manner that a part of it is for sales made outside Ohio and
another part for interstate sales. These consequences
result, appellant argues, from the formula used by Ohio in
determining the amount and value of Ohio manufacturing
and sales, as distinguished from interstate and out-of-state
sales.
The tax is computed under the Ohio statute in the following manner: Section 5498 prescribes the formula used
in determining what part of a taxpayer's total capital stock
represents business and property conducted and located
in Ohio. To determine this, the total value of issued capital stock is divided in half. One half is then multiplied
by a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of all
the taxpayer's Ohio property, and the denominator of
which is the total value of all its property wherever owned.
The other half is multiplied by another fraction whose
numerator is the total value of the "business done" in the
State and whose denominator is country-wide business.
Addition of these two products gives the tax base, which,
when multiplied by the tax rate of 1/10 of 1%, produces
the amount of 0"e fro achise tax.
In the "business done" numerator, the State included
as a part of Ohio business an amount equal to the sales proceeds of a large part of the goods manufactured at appellant's Ohio plants, no matter where the goods had been
sold or delivered.2 A part of the measure of the tax is con1 Section 5498 also sets out in some detail the factors to be considered,
and those not to be considered, in calculating the total value of a
taxpayer's issued and outstanding stock. These provisions are not
here at issue.
2 Rule 275, Tax Commissioner of Ohio, Oct. 13, 1939, exempted
from the computation all goods manufactured by appellant in Ohio,
but shipped to appellant's out-of-Ohio warehouses before sale.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

sequently an amount equal to the sales price of Ohio-manufactured goods sold and delivered to customers in other
states. Appellant contends that the State has thus taxed
sales made outside of Ohio in violation of the Due Process
Clause. A complete answer to this due process contention
is that Ohio did not tax these sales. Its statute imposed
the franchise tax for the privilege of doing business in
Ohio for profit. The state supreme court construed the
statute as imposing the tax on corporations for engaging
in business such as that in which taxpayer engaged. One
branch of that business whs manufacturing. It has long
been established that a state can tax the business of manufacturing. The fact that it chose to measure the amount
of such a tax by the value of the goods the factory has
produced, whether of the current or a past year, does not
transform the tax on manufacturing to something else.
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284, 288-289; Utah Power &
Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, 189-190; Wallace v.
Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69; Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S.
249, 255. See also Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S.
307, 313-314, and cases cited in notes 14 and 15.
In the Ohio "business done" numerator, we assume the
State also included sales made by Ohio branches to Ohio
customers of goods manufactured and delivered to these
Ohio customers from out-of-Ohio factories.3 Appellant's
business practice was to conduct and account for its sales
agencies' activities separately and distinctly from its factory operations. The State followed this distinction. It
treated the sales agencies as conducting one type of busi3 The State contends here that it did not include in the "businessdone" numerator an amount equal to the proceeds from sales by Ohio
branches to Ohio customers of goods which were shipped to the Ohio
customers from factories outside Ohio. Appellant insists that it did.
We need not resolve this controversy, for we think the result is the
same whichever view is taken.

HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT.
416

Opinion of the Court.

ness and, the factories another. Thus it measured the
value of the Ohio sales agencies' business by the total
amount of the preceding year's Ohio sales of goods manufactured outside of Ohio as well as those manufactured in
Ohio. Here again, appellant's contention that this resulted
in taxing out-of-state or interstate transactions or sales in
violation of the Due Process Clause is wholly without substance. The Ohio sales agencies' business and their sales
to Ohio customers were intrastate activities. International Harvester Co. v. Department of Treasury, 322
U. S. 340. What effect inclusion of this element in the
"business done" numerator would have were these transactions not intrastate is a question we need not now
decide.
What we have said disposes of the only grounds urged
to support the due process contention. It also answers
most of the argument made against the Ohio statute on
the ground that its application to appellant unduly burdens interstate commerce and therefore violates the Commerce Clause. Of course, the Commerce Clause does not
bar a state from imposing a tax based on the value of the
privilege to do an intrastate business merely because it
also does an interstate business. FbrdMotor Co. v. Beauchamp, 308 U. S. 331,336. Nor does the fact that a computation such a thr, under Ohio's law includes receipts
from interstate sales affect the validity of a fair apportionment. See e. g., Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258
U. S. 290; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254
U.. S. 113; American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, supra;International Shoe'Co. v. Shartel, 279 U. S. 429, 433; Western Cartridge Co. v. Emmerson,281 U.S. 511. And here, it clearly
appears from the background of Ohio's tax legislation that
the whole purpose of the state formula was to arrive, without undue complication, at a fair conclusion as to what was
the value of the intrastate business for which its franchise
was granted. In October, 1924, this Court struck down

422

OCTOBER TERM. 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Ohio's then corporation franchise tax on the ground that it
did not make an apportionment between local and interstate business so as to confine its tax to local business only.'
The tax was also held to be in violation of the Equal Protection clause. Air-Way ElectricAppliance Corporationv.
Day, 266 U. S. 71. In April 1925, the legislature of Ohio
passed a new act expressly to cure the defects this Court
had found in the old law.' 111 Ohio Laws 471. That 1925
Act, as slightly amended,5 is the law under which the
present apportionment was made.
Plainly Ohio sought to tax only what she was entitled to
tax, and there is nothing about application of the formula
in this case that indicates a potentially unfair result under
any circumstances. It is not even contended here that the
amount of these taxes could be considered to bear an unjust
or improper relation to the value of the privilege of doing
business in Ohio if the legislature had imposed a flat franchise tax of the same amounts for the respective years
which application of this formula has produced. See
Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, supra at 296. Furthermore, this Court has long realized the practical impossibility of a state's achieving a perfect apportionment of
expansive, complex business activities such as those of
appellant, and has declared that "rough approximation
rather than precision" is sufficient. Illinois CentralRy. v.
Minnesota, 309 U. S. 157, 161. Unless a palpably disproportionate result comes from an apportionment, a result
' In vetoing the bill which became the law, on grounds not here
relevant, the Governor of Ohio said: "The supreme court decision,
of course, made it necessary for you to devise a basis for the levy of
the tax other than on the authorized capitalization of foreign corporations. You have seen fit to embody in the pending measure an
asset value or total net worth basis for the assessment of the tax on
domestic corporations as well." Ohio House Journal 1925, Vol. 111,
874. The bill was passed over his i'eto.
5 112 Ohio Laws 410 (1927); 113 Ohio Laws 637 (1929); 114 Ohio
Laws 714 (1931) ; 115 Ohio Laws 589 (1933).

HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT.
416

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

which makes it patent that the tax is levied upon interstate commerce rather than upon an intrastate privilege,
this Court has not been willing to nullify honest state efforts to make apportionments. See cases collected in
opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Stone, dissenting, Northwest
Airlines v. Minnesota,322 U. S. 292, 325. A state's tax law
is not to be nullified merely because the result is achieved
through a formula which includes consideration of interstate and out-of-state transactions in their relation to the
intrastate privilege. Since it has not been ',emonstrated
that the apportionment here achieves an unfair result, cf.
Hans Rees' Sons, Inc. v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123,
134, 135, and since it is assessed only against the privilege
of doing local Ohio business of manufacturing and selling,
we do not come to the question, argued by appellant, of
possible multiplication of this tax by reason of its imposition by other states. None of them can tax the privilege
of operating factories and sales agencies in Ohio.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, concurring.

I concur in the opinion and judgment of the Court. But
I desire to add that, in the due process-phase of the case,
I find no basis for conclusion that any of the transactions
included in the measure of the tax was so lacking in substantial fact connections with Ohio as to preclude the
state's use of them, cf. McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S.
327, dissenting opinion at 352-357, if indeed a limitation
of this sort were material to an apportionment found on
the whole to be fairly made. For the rest, as the Court
holds, the apportionment clearly is valid.

