TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
Counsel for Parties.

TRANSPARENT-WRAP MACHINE CORP. v.
STOKES & SMITH CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 208.

Argued January 7, 8, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.

A patent-licensing agreement granted an exclusiye license to manufacture and sell in the United States, Canada and Mexico a patented
machine under the patents then owned or later acquired by the
licensor, subject to a condition that the licensee assign to the licensor any improvement patents applicable to the machine and
suitable for use in connection with it. Held: The inclusion in the
license of the condition requiring the licensee to assign improvement
patents is not per se illegal and unenforceable. Pp. 642--648.
156 F. 2d 198, reversed.

In a suit for a declaratory judgment and an injunction
instituted by a licensee under a patent-licensing agreement, the District Court sustained the validity of a conI

dition requiring the licensee to assign improvement
patents to the licensor. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed. 156 F. 2d 198. This Court granted certiorari.

329 U. S. 695. Reversed, p. 648.
R. Morton Adams argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Samuel E. Darby, Jr. argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Virgil E. Woodcock.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett and Paul A. Sweeney filed a brief
for the United States, as amicus curiae, in support of

respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

329 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit for a declaratory judgment (Judicial Code
§ 274d, 28 U. S. C. § 400) and an injunction, instituted by
respondent for the determination of the legality and enforceability of a provision of a patent license agreement.
The District Court, whose jurisdiction was based on
diversity of citizenship (Judicial Code § 24 (1), 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (1)), entered judgment for petitioner, holding the
provision valid. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
by a divided vote, 156 F. 2d 198, being of the opinion that
the provision in question was illegal under the line of decisions represented by Mercoid Corporation v. Mid-Continent Co., 320 U. S. 661. The case is here on a petition
for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the
public importance of the question presented and of the
apparent conflict between the decision below and Allbright-Nell Co. v. Stanley Hiller Co., 72 F. 2d 392, decided
by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals.
Petitioner, organized in 1934, has patents on a machine'
which bears the trade-mark "Transwrap." This machine
makes transparent packages, simultaneously fills them
with such articles as candy, and seals them. In 1037
petitioner sold and respondent acquired the Transwrap
business in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, the
right to use the trade-mark "Transwrap," and an exclusive license to manufacture and sell the Transwrap machine under the patents petitiorrer then owned or might
acquire. The agreement contained a formula by which
royalties were to be computed and paid. The term of
the agreement was ten years with an option in respondent
to renew it thereafter for five-year periods during the life
of the patents covered by the agreement. The agreement could be terminated by petitioner on notice for
specified defaults on respondent's part. The provision of

TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
637

639

Opinion of the Court.

the agreement around which the present controversy turns
is a covenant by respondent to assign to petitioner improvement patents applicable to the machine and suitable
for use in connection with it.1
The ,parties had operated under the agreement for several years when petitioner ascertained that respondent had
taken out certaiin patents on improvements in the machine. Petitioner notified respondent that its failure to
disclose and assign these improvements constituted a
breach of the agreement and called on respondent to
1 The relevant portions of this provision read as follows:

"If the Licensee shall discover or invent an improvement which
is applicable to the Transwrap Packaging Machine and suitable
for use in connection therewith and applicable to the making and
closing of the package, but not to the filling nor to the contents
of the package, it shall submit the same to the Licensor, which
may, at its option, apply for Letters Patent covering the same.
In the event of the failure of the Licensor so to apply for Letters
Patent covering such additional improvements, inventions or
patentable ideas' the Licensee may apply for the same. In the
event that such additional Letters Patent are applied for and are
granted to the. Licensor, they shall be deemed covered by the
terms of this License Agreement and may be used by the Licensee
hereunder without any further consideration, license fee or royalty as above provided. In the event that any such additional
improvements are patented by the Licensee for use in connection
with Transwrap Packaging Machines, (after the refusal or failure
of the Licensor to apply for Patents thereon), the Licensor may,
nevertheless, have the use but not the exclusive use of the same
outside of the several territories covered by this License Agreement. The expenses of obtaining any such Patents shall be paid
by the party applying therefor."
By another provision of the agreement, likewise challenged, it was
provided-that during the term of the license all improvement patents,
whether secured by petitioner or by respondent, were to be included
in the terms of the license without payment of an additional royalty.
The petitioner, however, was to have the right to use and license the
use of any such improvements outside the territories covered by the
agreement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

remedy the default. When that did not occur, petitioner
notified respondent that the agreement would be terminated on a day certain. Thereupon respondent instituted
this action asking that the provisions respecting the improvement patents be declared illegal and unenforceable
and that petitioner be enjoined from terminating the
agreement.2
In a long and consistent line of cases the Court has held
that an owner of a patent may not condition a license so
as to tie to the use of the patent the use of other materials,
processes or devices which lie outside of the monopoly of
the patent. Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal
Film Mfg. Co., 243 U. S. 502; Carbice Corp. v. American
PatentsDev. Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co.,
314 U. S. 488; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495;
Mercoid Corporationv. Mid-Continent Co., supra; Mercoid Corp. v. Honeywell Co., 320 U. S. 680. As stated
in Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., supra, p. 492,
". .. the public policy which includes inventions within
the granted monopoly excludes from it all that is not embraced in the invention. It equally forbids the use of the
patent to secure an exclusive right or limited monopoly not
granted by the Patent Office and which it is contrary to
public policy to grant." If such practices were tolerated,
2 Petitioner joined issue and filed a counterclaim asking that the

improvement patents be assigned, that the agreement be held terminated and that respondent be enjoined from using the original or improvement patents. The District Court dismissed the complaint,
declared the agreement terminated, and ordered respondent to assign
the petitioner the improvement patents. The Circuit Court of Appeals, on reversing, held not only that the provision for the assignment of the improvement patents was unlawful but also that
petitioner was excused from any further performance because respondent had repudiated its agreement to assign those patents. It remanded
the cause to the District Court to determine whether petitioner was

entitled to restitution.

TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

ownership of a patent would give the patentee control
over unpatented articles which but for the patent he
would not possess. "If the restraint is lawful because of
the patent, the patent will have been expanded by contract. That on which no patent could be obtained would
be as effectively protected as if a patent had been issued.
Private business would function as its own patent office
and impose its own law upon its licensees." Mercoid
Corp. v. Mid-Continent Co., supra, p. 667. The requirement that a licensee under a patent use an unpatented material or device with the patent might violate the
anti-trust laws but for the attempted protection of the
patent. Id. The condemnation of the practice, however, does not depend on such a showing. Though control of the unpatented article or device falls short of a
prohibited restraint .of trade or monopoly, it will not be
sanctioned. Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., supra. For
it is the tendency in that direction which condemns the
practice and which, if approved by a court either through
enjoining infringement or enforcing the covenant, would
receive a powerful impetus. Id.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the view that the
principle of those cases was applicable here and rendered
illegal and unenforceable the covenant to assign the improvement patents to petitioner. It stated, 156 F. 2d, p.
202, "The owner of all property, by withholding it upon
any other terms, may, if he can, force others to buy from
him; land is the best example and every parcel of land is a
monopoly. But it is precisely in this that a patent is not
like other property; the patentee may not use it to force
others to buy of him things outside its four corners. If
the defendant gets the plaintiff's patents, it will have put
itself in that position- in part at any rate, by virtue of the
compulsion of its own patents."
It went on to note that since all improvement patents
would not expire until after expiration of petitioner's pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ents on the machine, the arrangement put respondent at a
competitive disadvantage. For respondent would lose the
negative command over the art which ownership of the improvement patents would have given it. Moreover, respondent, though able to renew the license on conditions
stated in the agreement, would be irretrievably tied to it so
as to be "forced, either to cease all efforts to patent improvements, or to keep renewing the contract in order to
escape the consequences of its own ingenuity." Id., p.
203.
First. The first difficulty we have with the position of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is that Congress has made all
patents assignable and has granted the assignee the same
exclusive rights as the patentee. "Every application for
patent or patent or any interest therein shall be assignable in law by an instrument in writing, and the applicant
or patentee or his assigns or legal representatives may in
like manner grant and convey an exclusive right under
his application for patent or patent to the whole or any
specified part of the United States." R. S. § 4898, 35
U. S. C. Supp. V § 47. The statute does not limit the consideration which may be paid for the assignment to any
species or kind of property. At least so far as the terms of
the statute are concerned, we see no difference whether the
consideration is services (cf. Standard Parts Co. v. Peck,
264 U. S. 52) or cash, or the right to use another patent.
An improvement patent may, like a patent on a step
in a process, have great strategic value. For it may, on
expiration of the basic patent, be the key to a whole technology. One who holds it may therefore have a considerable competitive advantage. And one who assigns it and
thereby loses negative command of the art may by reason
of his assignment have suffered a real competitive handicap. For thereafter he will have to pay toll to the assignee, if he practices the invention. But the competi-

TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
637

Opinioi

of the Court.

tive handicap or disadvantage which he suffers is no
greater and no less whether the consideration for the assignment be the right to use the basic patent or something
else of value. That is to say, the freedom of one who
assigns a patent is restricted to the same degree whether
the assignment is made pursuant to a license agreement
or otherwise.
If Congress, by whose authority patent rights are created, had allowed patents to be assigned only for a specified consideration, it would be our duty to permit no
exceptions. But here Congress has made no such limitation. A patent is a species of property. It gives the
patentee or his assignee the "exclusive right to make,
use, and vend the invention or discovery". for a limited
period. R. S. § 4884, 35 U. S. C. § 40. That is to say,
it carries for the statutory period "a right to be free from
competition in the practice of the invention." Mercoid
Corporationv. Mid-Continent Co., supra, p. 665. That
exclusive right, being the essence of the patent privilege,
is, for purposes of the assignment statute, of the same dignity.as any other property which may be used to purchase
patents.
Second. What we have said is not, of course, a complete
answer to the position of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
For the question remains whether here, as in Mercoid Corporationv. Mid-Continent Co., supra,and its predecessors,
the condition in the license agreement violates some
other principle of law or public policy. The fact that a
patentee has the power to refuse a license does not mean
that he has the power to grant a license on such conditions
as he may choose. United States v. Masonite Corp., 316
U. S. 265, 277.
As we have noted, such a power, if conceded, would
enable the patentee not only to exploit the invention but
to use it to acquire a monopoly not embraced in the patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Thus, if he could require all licensees to use his unpatented
materials with the patent, he would have, or stand in a
strategic position to acquire, a monopoly in the unpatented
materials themselves. Beyond the "limited monopoly" granted by the patent, the methods by which a patent
is exploited are "subject to the general law." United
States v. Masonite Corp., supra, p. 277. Protection from
competition in the sale of unpatented materials is not
granted b-y either the patent law or the general law. He
who uses his patent to obtain protection from competition
in the sale of unpatente4 materials extends by contract
his patent monopoly to articles as respects which the law
sanctions neither monopolies nor restraints of trade.
It is at precisely this point that our second difficulty
with the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals is found.
An improvement patent, like the basic patent to which it
relates, is a legalized monopoly for a limited period. The
law permits both to be bought and sold. One who uses
one patent to acquire another is not extending his patent
monopoly to articles governed by the general law and as
respects which neither monopolies nor restraints of trade
are sanctioned. He is indeed using one legalized monopoly to acquire another legalized monopoly.
Mercoid Corporationv. Mid-Continent Co., supra, and
its predecessors, by limiting a patentee to the monopoly found within the four corners of the grant, outlawed
business practices which the patent law unaided by restrictive agreements did not protect. Take the case of
the owner of an unpatented machine who leases it or
otherwise licenses its use on condition that all improvements which the lessee or licensee patents should be assigned. He is using his property to acquire a monopoly.
But the monopoly, being a patent, is a lawful one. The
general law would no more make that acquisition of a patent unlawful than it would the assignment of a patent

TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

for cash. Yet a patent is a species of property; 'and if the
owner of an unpatented machine could exact that condition, why may not the owner of a patented machine?
It is true that for some purposes the owner of a patent
is under disabilities with which owners of other property are not burdened. Thus where the use of unpatented
materials is tied to the use of a patent, a court will not lend
its aid to enforce the agreement though control of the unpatented article falls short of a prohibited restraint of
trade or monopoly. Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co.,
supra. There is a suggestion that the same course should
be followed in this case since the tendency of the practice
we have here would be in the direction of concentration
of economic power that might run counter to the policy
of the anti-trust laws. The difficulty is that Congress
has not made illegal the acquisition of improvement patents by the owner of a basic patent. The assignment of
patents is indeed sanctioned. And as we have said, there
is no difference in the policy of the assignment statute
whatever consideration may be used to purchase the improvement patents. And apart from violations of the
anti-trust laws to which we will shortly advert, the end
result is the same whether the owner of a basic patent uses
a license to obtain improvement patents or uses the wealth
which he accumulates by exploiting his basic patent for
that purpose. In sum, a patent license may not be used
coercively to exact a condition contrary to public policy.
But what falls within the terms of the assignment statute
is plainly not per se against the public interest.
It is, of course, true that the monopoly which the licensor
obtains when he acquires the improvement patents extends
8See James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, 358; Holister v. Benedict
Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 67; Cramp & Sons Co. v. InternationalCurtis
Co., 246 U. S. 28, 39-40; United States v. Dubilier Condenser Corp.,
289 U. S. 178, 187.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S:

beyond the term of his basic patent. But as we have said,
that is not creatingby agreement a monopoly which the
law otherwise would not anetion. The grant of the improvement patent itself creates the monopoly. On the
facts of the present case the effect on the public interest
would seem to be the same whether the licensee or the
licensor owns the improvement patents.
There is a suggestion that the enforcement of the condition gives the licensee less incentive to make inventions
when he is bound to turn over to the licensor the products
of his inventive genius. Since the primary aim of the patent laws is to promote the progress of science and the useful
arts (United States v. Masonite Corp., supra, p. 278 and
cases cited), an arrangement which diminishes the incentive is said to be against the public interest. Whatever
force that argument might have in other situations, it is
not persuasive here. Respondent pays no additional
royalty on any improvement patents which are used.
By reason of the agreement any improvement patent
can be put to immediate use and exploited for the account
of the licensee. And that benefit continues so long as the
agreement is renewed. The agreement thus serves a function of supplying a market for the improvement patents.
Whether that opportunity to exploit the improvement
patents would be increased but for the agreement depends
on vicissitudes of business too conjectural on this record to
appraise.
Third. We are quite aware of the possibilities of abuse
in the. practice of licensing a patent on condition that the
licensee assign all improvement patents to the licensor.
Conceivably the device could be employed with the purpose or effect of violating the anti-trust laws. He who
acquires two patents acquires a double monopoly. As
patents are added to patents a whole industry may be regimented. The owner of a basic patent might thus per-

TRANSWRAP CORP. v. STOKES CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

petuate his control over an industry long after the basic
patent expired. Competitors might be eliminated and
an industrial monopoly perfected and maintained.'
Through the use of patent pools or multiple licensing
agreements the fruits of invention of an entire industry
might be systematically funneled into the hands of the
original patentee. See United Shoe Machinery Co. v. La
Chapelle,212 Mass. 467,99 N. E. 289.
A patent may be so used as to violate the anti-trust laws.
Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S.
20; United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258
U. S. 451; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309
U. S. 436; United States v. Masonite Corp., supra. Such
violations may arise through conditions in the license
whereby the licensor seeks to control the conduct of the
licensee by the fixing of prices (Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v.
United States, supra; United States v. Masonite Corp.,
supra) or by other restrictive practices. United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, supra. Moreover, in the
Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, 731, 15 U. S. C. § 14, Congress
made it unlawful to condition the sale or lease of one article on an agreement not to use 'or buy a competitor's
article (whether either or both are patented), where the
effect is "to substantially lessen competition or tend to
create a monopoly." See International Business Machines Corp. v. United States, 298 U. S. 131. Congress,
however, has made no specific prohibition against conditioning a patent license on the assignment by the licensee
of improvement patents. But that does not mean that the
4 See Patents and Free Enterprise, Monograph No. 31, Investigation
of Concentration of Economic Power, Temporary National Economic
Committee, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., chs. V & VII; Wood, Patents and
Antitrust Law (1941), dhs. 3 & 4; Marcus, Patents, Antitrust Law
and Antitrust Judgments through Hartford-Empire, (1945-46) 34
Georgetown L. J. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

practice we have here has immunity under the anti-trust
laws. Indeed, the recent case of Hartford-Empire Co. v.
United States, 323 U. S. 386, 324 U. S. 570, dramatically illustrates how the use of a condition or covenant in apatent
license that the licensee will assign improvement patents
may give rise to violations of the anti-trust laws."
The District Court found no violation of the anti-trust
laws in the present case. The Circuit Court of Appeals
did not reach that question. Hence it, as well as any other
questions which may have been preserved, are open on
our remand of the cause tothe Circuit Court of Appeals.
We only hold that the inclusion in the license of the
condition requiring the licensee to assign improvement
patents is not per se illegal and unenforceable.
Rever8ed.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK, MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, and MR.
JUSTICE BURTON would affirm the judgment for the reasons
set forth in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY is of

the view that the judgment

below should be affirmed. He believes that the Court's
decision in this case unduly enlarges the scope of patent
monopolies and is inconsistent with the philosophy enunciated in Mercoid Corporationv. Mid-Continent Co., 320
U. S. 661, and similar cases.

