OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

remain at the camp for a substantially longer period and
then depart without leave.The question raised concerning venue has been determined adversely to Gibson's contention by our decision
in United States v. Anderson, 328 U. S. 699.
The judgments are reversed and the causes are remanded to the District Courts from which they came, for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY joins in the opinion of the Court
for the reasons stated therein and for the additional reasons set forth in his clissenting opinion in Falbo v. United
States, 320 U. S. 549, 555, and in his concurring opinion in
Estep v. United States, 327 U. S. 114, 125.

ILLINOIS EX REL. GORDON, DIRECTOR OF LABOR,
v. CAMPBELL, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 35.

Argued March 28, 1946. Reargued November 19, 1946.Decided December 23, 1946.

Having filed notice of a lien for state unemployment compensation
taxes under Jones Ill. Stat. Ann., 1944, § 45.154, creating a lien
"upon all the personal property" of an employer "used by him in
connection with his . .. business," the state Director of Labor
brought suit in a state court to enforce the lien, alleging that the
employer was insolvent and that a creditor had obtained judgment
and execution against him subsequent to the filing of notice of the
lien. The court enjoined all creditors from interfering with the
employer's property and appointed a receiver, who took charge of
all his assets. Thereafter, the Collector of Internal Revenue filed
claims on behalf of the United States for federal social security taxes
1 See note 30.

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362

363

Statement of the Case.

under § 1400 of the Internal Revenue Code and an intervening
petition alleging that the debtor was insolvent and claiming priority
of payment. The receiver liquidated all of the debtor's assets and
realized less than enough to satisfy the claims of creditors. Held:
1. Under R. S. § 3466, a claim of the United States for social
security taxes under § 1400 of the Internal Revenue Code takes
priority over a claim of a State for taxes under a state Unemployment Compensation Act. Illinois v. United States, 328 U. S. 8.
Pp. 366-367.
2. The receiver having been placed in control of all the debtor's
assets and having liquidated all of them, and another creditor having
intervened, the proceeding must be treated as a general equity
receivership. Pp. 368-369.
3. The debtor being insolvent and a receiver having been appointed to take charge of his property, an act of bankruptcy was
committed within the meaning of § 3 of the Bankruptcy Act, thus
entitling the United States to the priority given by R. S. § 3466.
Pp. 367-370.
4. Under Jones Ill. Stat. Ann.! 1944, § 45.154 (e), making it
unnecessary for the Director of Labor to describe the property to
which the lien is to attach and requiring the employer to file a
schedule of "all personal property .

.

. used in connection with his

...business," the Illinois lien was not sufficiently specific or perfected to defeat the priority of the United States, since neither the
notice of lien nor the appointment of the receiver made definite and
certain the property to which the lien was to attach. Pp. 370-376.
391 Ill. 29, 62 N. E. 2d 537, affirmed.

In a suit by the Director of Labor of Illinois to enforce
a lien for unemployment compensation contributions due
the State, a general equity receiver was appointed and the
Collector of Internal Revenue intervened and filed a claim
for social security taxes due the United States, claiming
priority of payment under R. S. § 3466. The Illinois Supreme Court held that the United States was entitled to
priority. 391 Ill. 29,62 N. E. 2d 537. This Court granted
certiorari, 327 U. S. 772, and, after hearing argument and
disposing of a companion case (Illinois v. United States,
328 U. S. 8), restored the case to the docket for reargument
before a full bench. Affirmed, p. 376.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Albert E. Hallett,Assistant Attorney General of Illinois,
argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief
was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.
J. Louis Monarch argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Sewall Key and Helen Goodner.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was companion to Illinois ex rel. Gordon v.
United States, 328 U. S. 8, decided last term, but brings
for settlement other problems raised by a conflict of claims
between the United States and the State of Illinois. 'The
conflict concerns whether one or the other claimant is
entitled to priority of payment from assets of a common debtor. The Illinois Supreme Court dealt with both
cases in a single opinion. 391 Ill. 29, 62 N. E. 2d 537.
Certiorari was granted in each. 327 U. S.771; 327 U. S.
772. On the same day that Illinois ex rel. Gordon v.
United States, supra, was decided, this cse was restored
to the docket and assigned for reargument before a full
bench, because of the presence of the questions not determined by that decision.
The controversy arose on June 29, 1942, when the Director of Labor of Illinois brought suit in the Circuit Court
of Cook County, Illinois, to enforce against the Chicago
Waste and Textile Company a statutory lien for unemployment compensation contributions due the state. Associated Agencies, Inc.,1 was a creditor of the Chicago
Waste and Textile Company. In his complaint the Director alleged that Associated Agencies had obtained a judgment against its debtor in the Municipal Court of Chicago
1 Assotiated Agencies was made a defendant in the suit brought by
the Director of Labor.

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

362

and that execution had issued on this judgment June 3,
1942, but that the interest of Associated Agencies was subordinate to that of the lien sought to be foreclosed. This,
"for the reason that the execution upon said judgment was
issued long after notice of the lien of the Director of Labor
was recorded with the Recorder of Deeds." 2 The Director
alleged further, upon information and belief, that the Chicago Waste and Textile Company was insolvent and that
"the personal property subject to the lien herein being
foreclosed, is scant security for the debt due the Director of
Labor . . . and that unless a receiver be appointed for all
of the said property, pending a full and complete hearing
upon the issues herein, the plaintiff will suffer financial
loss and said property will be .wasted."
Granting the immediate relief 'requested, the Circuit
Court enjoined all creditors of the Chicago Waste and
Textile Company from interfering with the property of the
conopany, -whether by judicial action . or otherwise, and
also appointed a receiver "for the property of the Chicago
Waste and Textile Company."
Subsequently respondent, the Collector of Internal Revenue for the First District of Illinois, filed claims on behalf
of the United States amounting to $1,954.07 plus interest.
Of this amount, $522.91 was for federal insurance contribution taxes an4 $1,431.16 was for federal unemployment taxes. Of the federal insurance contribution taxes,
$229.91 represented employees' taxes, see Helvering v.
Davis, 301 U. S. 619, collected by the employer under stat2

As exhibits to the Director's complaint three notices of lien were

filed, one for $225.51, one for $303.29, and one for $259.65. Although
these aggregate $788.45, the lien sought to be foreclosed was for

$767.29.
3 The

See note 12.

property of the Chicago Waste and Textile Company was to

be sold at public auction at the behest of Associated Agencies.
injunction prevented this sale.

The

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

utory withholding provisions. I.R.C. §§ 1400,1401. The
Collector also filed an intervening petition, alleging that
the debtor was insolvent and asking that the claims of the
United States be allowed as claims entitled to priority of
payment immediately after costs of administration and
before payment of other creditors. The Director of Labor
answered, denying that the claims of the United States
were entitled to priority over the claims of Illinois.
The receiver realized $677.81 from sale of the debtor's
property and this amount was deposited with the clerk of
the Circuit Court. A hearing was held, and the court
ordered that ninety per cent of the funds on deposit be
given to the Director of Labor and the other ten per cent to
the United States. The Collector appealed to the Appellate Court for the First District. On motion of the appellee, the cause was transferred to the Supreme Court of
Illinois on jurisdictional grounds.
The state Supreme Court held that the United States
was entitled to priority over the State of Illinois as to its
claim for federal insurance contribution taxes.' Whether
it was correct to award this priority is the issue we now
have to decide.
Illinois ex rel. Gordon v. United States, 328 U. S. 8,
held that in circumstances which called into application
Rev. Stat. § 3466, 31 U. S. C. § 191, the claims of the United
States for federal insurance contributions taxes under
Title 8 of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 620, 636, and
for federal unemployment compensation taxes under
Title 9 of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. at 639, had priority over claims of Illinois for taxes under its Unemploy4This

did not exhaust the fund, and the court awarded the balance

to 4he Director of Labor, instead of to the United States in phrt payment of its claim for federal unemployment taxes. 391 Ill. 294, 32-34.
See also United States v. Spencer, 65 F. Supp. 763. The United States
has not petitioned for certiorari, anA therefore the correctness of this
disposition of the balance of the fund is not now in controversy.

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362

Opinion of the Court.

ment Compensation Act.' That decision is controlling,
of course, upon the same feature of this case, although the
federal insurance contributions taxes claimed by the
United States arise under the 1939 amendments of the
Social Security Act, rather than, as in the case last term,
under the original act itself. Compare §§ 801, 802, 804,
807 (c) of the original Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 620,
with §§ 1400, 1401, 1410, and 1430 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 53 Stat. 175, as amended by 53 Stat. 1381.
I.
But the state urges that § 3466 does not apply in the
facts of this ecase. This argument, as well as another, that
the lien of the state was so specific and perfected as to
defeat the priority, if any, of the United States under Rev.
Stat. § 3466, must be met before the case can be affirmed
on the authority of Illinois ex rel. Gordon v. United States,
supra.
Rev. Stat. § 3466 provides:
"Whenever any person indebted to the United
States is insolvent, or whenever the estate of any
deceased debtor, in the hands of the executors or
5 Jones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) §§ 45.128-45.161.
The argument of
the state in that case was that, since Title 9 contained "provisions
intended to induce states to set up sound unemployment compensation
in accordance with congressionally prescribed standards" and "to
this end" permitted the states "to build up their own funds by collection from employers within the state of 90% of the tax those employers
would otherwise have to pay to the Federal Government," it was Congress' intention to give states priority over the United States for their
unemployment compensation claims. This argument was applicable,
it may be noted, only to federal unemployment compensation taxes
and not to federal insurance contributions taxes, which are the only

ones involved in this case, since as to federal insurance contributions
taxes there are no provisions for federal-state cooperation as there
are in Title 9. Compare Helvering v. Davis, 301 U. S.619, with
Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548. See also Rivard v. Bijou
FurnitureCo., 68 R. I. 358, 361, 27 A. 2d 853.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts due
from the deceased, the debts due to the United States
shall be first satisfied; and the priority established
shall extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not
having sufficient property to pay all his debts, makes
a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the estate
and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent
debtor are attached by process of law, as to cases in
which an act of bankruptcy is committed."
The fifth act of bankruptcy, which is the one on which
the Government relies as having brought § 3466 into operation, consists of a person's ' having,
"(5) while insolvent or unable to pay his debts as
they mature, procured, permitted, or suffered voluntarily or involuntarily the appointment of a receiver
or trustee to take charge of his property . . . ." 52
Stat. 844, 11 U. S. C. § 21 -(a).
The state contends, first, that the receiver appointed
at its instance was not a receiver within the meaning of
this provision and, second, that the Chicago Waste and
Textile Company was not shown by 'the record to be
insolvent.
This Court has noted that the view has been expressed
that to satisfy the fifth act of bankruptcy "the receivership must be general, as contrasted with a receivership
incidental to the enforcement of a lien."* DuparquetHuot
& Moneuse Co. v.- Evans, 297 U. S. 216, 224.' It has
The Bankruptcy Act uses the term "person," 11 U. S. C. § 21 (a),
but the Act defnes "persons" as including "corporations, except where
otherwise specified, and officers, partnerships, and women .... "
* 52 Stat. 841, 11 U. S. C. § 1 (23).
7 Since decision of the Evans case, the fifth act of bankruptcy has
been amended to include appointment of a receiver when there is
insolvency in the equity sense as well asin the bankruptcy sense. See
6

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362

Opinion of the Court.

not determined the correctness of that view, Emil v. Hanley, 318 U. S. 515, 521, n. 5, nor need we do so now. For,
though the receiver was appointed at the instance of a
secured creditor, as in United States v. Texas, 314 U. S.
480, 483-484, "any limitations upon the operation of
§ 3466 [which] might otherwise have flowed from this
circumstance . . . were removed by the subsequent character of the proceeding." The receiver was placed in control of all the assets of the Chicago Waste and Textile
Company, and all of the assets were liquidated. At least
one party other than the secured creditor which had instituted the proceeding, namely, the United States, was allowed to intervene and was heard. "We think that realities require us to treat the proceeding as a general equity
receivership within the scope of § 3466." United States v.
Texas, supra.
Moreover, it is questionable whether the fact of insolvency is properly contestable by the State of Illinois.
The receiver was appointed upon the allegations of its
complaint, which included insolvency, and the state admitted in its answer to the Government's intervening petition
that the debtor was insolvent. Although ordinarily the
doctrine of estoppel or that part of it which precludes
inconsistent positions in judicial proceedings is not applied
to states,8 in the present litigation Illinois is in the position
of any lien creditor.
It would seem therefore that in these circumstances the
state should be held estopped to contest insolvency. But
in any event the record demonstrates that the debtor was
insolvent at the "time of the appointment of the receiver,
1 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.) 475. But under the amended
statute the same view has been expressed. Elfast v. Lamb, 111 F. 2d
434,436.
8
See Note (1946) 59 Harv. L. Rev. 1132, 1136.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of*the Court.

329 U. S.

for when its property was liquidated there was not enough
to satisfy the claims of the two contesting creditors at
the bar.
Thus, the fifth act of bankruptcy was committed and
in consequence the United States has the benefit of the
priority given it by Rev. Stat. § 3466. We therefore turn
to the argument of the state that the specificity of its lien
defeated this priority.
II.
The United States was given the priority, now incorporated in Rev. Stat. § 34t66, in 1797. 1 Stat. 515. ° See also
the discussion in Price v. United States, 269 U. S. 492,
Yet the Court has never decided whether
500-501.
the priority is overcome by a fully perfected and specific
lien. See Rogge, The Differences in the Priority of the
United States in Bankruptcy and in Equity Receiverships
(1929) 43 Harv. L. Rev. 251, 267-270. The question,
however, has been reserved many times in express terms.
See Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386, 442;
Brent v. Tank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596, 611-612;
Spokane County v. United States, 279 U. S. 80, 95; New
York v. Maclay, 288 U. S. 290, 294; United States v.
Texas, 314 U. S. 480, 485-486; United States v. Waddill
Co., 323 U. S. 353, 355.1" And again we need not decide it,
9There are minor differences in phraseology between 1 Stat. 515
and Rev. Stat. § 3466, which "did not work any change in the purpose
or meaning .

.

... "

Price v. United States, 269 U. S. 492, 501.

10 The statement in United States v. Knott, 298 U. S. 544, 551, that
"such an interest [an inchoate general lien created by the laws of
Florida) lacks the characteristics of a specific perfected lien which
alone bars the priority of the United States" was not intended tc
settle the problem and may be taken to have been made with reference
to the early mortgage lien cases discussed and distinguished in United
States v. Texas, 314 U. S. at 484-485, and New York v. Maclay, 288
U. S. at 293-294.

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362

Opinion of the Court.

for we are of the opinion that the Illinois lien was not sufficiently specific or perfected, in the purview of controlling
decisions, to defeat the Government's priority.
The effect and operation of a lien in relation to the claim
of priority by the United States under Rev. Stat. § 3466
is always a federal question. "The priority given the
United States cannot be impaired or superseded by state
law." United States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 260.
Hence a state court's characterization of a lien as specific
and perfected is not conclusive. United States v. Waddill
Co., 323 U. S. 353,357. The state characterization, though
entitled to weight, is always subject to reexamination by
this Court.
On the other hand, if the state court itself characterizes
the lien as inchoate, this characterization is practically
conclusive. "Whatever might have been the effect of
more completed procedure in the perfecting of the liens
under the law of the State, upon the priority of the United
States herein, the attitude of the state court relieves us
of consideration of it." Spokane County v. United States,
279 U. S. 80, 95; cf. United States v. Knott, 298 U. S. 544.
In this case the United States argues that the Illinois
Supreme Court judged the lien of the state inchoate and
that therefore we may affirm its judgment on this basis.
Illinois, however, disputes this reading. It states that the
Illinois court did not consider the nature of the lien in
relation to the facts presented by this case, but merely
determined that under the facts of Illinois ex rel. Gordon
v. United States, supra, the lien had not become choate.
We can hardly accept this view in the face of the judgment
rendered and the opinion's statement of the facts of this
case at the outset, together with the later explicit reference
to it in holding the lien not of a sort to defeat the federal
priority. But we do not stop to analyze the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Illinois in detail. For it is clear, quite

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

apart from the opinion, that the lien was not so specific
and perfected as to defeat the priority of the United States,
if that is at all possible.
The statute under which the Illinois lien arises is set
out in the margin." The state asserts that the lien became
specific and perfected when notice of lien had been filed
and recorded " and when the receiver had been appointed.
In its yiew, upon appointment of the receiver "all substantial aids to the enforcement of the State's lien had been
utilized."
With this conclusion wb do not agree. It is true that
the filing of notice of lien determined the amount .of the
lien, though the state may have computed wrongly the
"A hen is hereby created in favor of the Director upon all the
personal property or rights thereto owned or thereafter acquired by
any employer and used by him in connection with his trade, occupation, profession or business, from whom contributions, interest or

penalties are or may hereafter become due. Such lien shall be

Jor

a

sum equal to the amount at any time due from such employer to the
Director on account of contributions, interest,and penalties thereon.

Such lien shall attach to such property at the time such contributions,
interest or penalties became, or shall hereafter become, due. In all
cases where a report setting forth the amount of such contributions
has been filed with the Director, no action to enforce such lien shall
be brought after three years from the date of the filing of such report
and in all other cases no action to enforce such lien shall be brought
after three years from the date that the determination and assessment
of the Director made pursuant to the provisions of this Act became
final." Jones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) § 45.154 (a). (Emphasis added.)
See also note 2.
12 "Such lien shall be invalid only as to any innocent purchaser for
value of stock in trade of any employer in the usual course of such
employer's business, and shall be invalid as to any innocent purchaser
for value of any of the other assets to which such lien has attached,
unless notice thereof has been filed by the Director in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds of the county within which the property subject
to the lien is situated. ... " Jones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) § 45.154
(b) (1). See note 2.

ILLINOIS, v. CAMPBELL.
362

Opinion of the Court.

amount of taxes owed it.'3

See United States v. Waddill

Co., 323 U. S. at 357-358. But it is not enough that the
amount of the lien be known. The lien must attach to
specific property of the debtor. This the Illinois lien had
not done at the time the receiver was appointed." Indeed,
as was stated at the argument, not only was the property
not in the hands of the bailiff, but so far as appears the
amount or type of property belonging to the debtor was
not known to the state.
Under the Illinois law, where it is sought to foreclose a
lien for unemployment compensation taxes it is not neeessary for the Director in his complaint to describe the
property to which said lien has attached. 5 On the
contrary by express provision,
it shall 'be the duty of the employer against
whom such petition has been filed to file in said proceedings, a full and complete schedule, under oath, of
all personal property and rights thereto which he
owned at the time the contributions,upon which the
lien sought to be foreclosed is based, become due, or
which he subsequently acquired,indicatingupon such
schedule the property so owned by such employer
which was, or is used by such employer in connection
with his trade, occupation,profession or business, and
if such employer shall so fail to do after having been
13Cf. note 2.
14 The priority of the United States attaches upon appointment of
the receiver. United States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 260; Spokane
County v. United States, 279 U. S. 80, 93.
15 Jones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) § 45.154 (e) provides for enforcement
of the lien by judicial proceedings for foreclosure. The section states:
"In all such cases, it shall not be necessary that said petition describe
the property to which said lien has attached"; and continues with the
further language quoted in the text.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

so ordered by the court, he may be punished as in
other cases of contempt of court." Jones Ill. Stat.
Ann. (1944) § 45.154 (e). (Emphasis added.)
Not until the debtor has filed the required schedules '
would the state know the amount of property in the
debtor's possession or, more important, the property to
which the lien attached. For the lien attaches only to personal property used by the employer "in connection with
his trade, occupation, profession or business .... "
The appointment of a receiver, then, was only an initial
step in the perfection of the lien. It, together with the
injunction, protected whatever rights in the property the
state might have. But it was not a final assertion or attachment of rights to specific property, as is, for example,
the enforcement of a judgment by execution and levy.
Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386, 443-444.
The state has not relied merely upon the recording of
the notices of lien but has rested on this together with the
receiver's appointment as accomplishing the required specificity and pertection. But now it is said the filing of the
notices alone achieved this result. Neither view is correct.
Both have been repudiated by repeated decisions of
this Court, the latest being United States v. Waddill Co.,
supra.
It has never been sufficient to show merely a general
lien, effective to protect the lienor against others than the
Government, but contingently on taking subsequent steps
either for giving public notice of the lien or for enforcing
i6 In his complaint the Director of Labor prayed, "that an order be
entered by this Honorable Court commanding that the defendant,
Chicago Waste & Textile Co., a corporation, file within a short day
to be fixed by the Court, a full and complete schedule under oath,
of all personal property and rights thereto, which it owned on the
1st day of May, 1941, or thereafter acquired, and to indicate upon
such schedule the property so owned by it which was or is used by it
in connection with its trade, occupation, profession or business."

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362
it."

Opinion of the Court.
Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386, 444; United

States v. Waddill Co., supra. The federal priority is not
destroyed by state recording acts any more than by state
statutes creating or otherwise affecting liens, if the lien as
recorded or otherwise executed does not have the required
degree of specificity and perfection. Under the decisions
the test is not, and cannot be, simply whether by his taking
further steps the lienor's rights will be enforced against
others than the Government.
The long-established rule requires that the lien must
be definite, and not merely ascertainable in the future by
taking further steps, in at least three respects as of the
crucial time. These are: (1) the identity of the lienor,
United States v. Knott, 298 U. S. 544, 549-551; (2) the
amount of the lien, United States v. Waddill Co., 323 U. S.
at 357-358; and (3) the property to which it attaches,
United States v. Waddill Co., supra; United States v.
Texas, supra; New York v. Maclay, supra. It is not
enough that the lienor has power to bring these elements,
or any of them, down from broad generality to the earth
of specific identity.
In this case the identity of the lienor was made certain,
before the Government's priority attached, both by the
statute and by the notices of lien. The latter also fixed
the amounts of the liens, though miscalculated. But
neither the notices of lien nor the appointment of the receiver made definite and certain the property, as we have
shown.
Here, as in United States v. Texas, 314 U. S. at 487, ".
'property devoted to or used in his business . . .'is neither
specific nor constant." As in United States v. Waddill
Co., 323 U. S. at 359, the goods subject to the lien had not
"severed themselves from the general and free assets of
the tenant [owner] from which the claims of the United

11See the authorities cited in the text at the beginning of Part II
of this opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

States were entitled to priority of payment." Here, as in
that and other cases, there was merely "a caveat of a more
perfect lien to come," New York v. Maclay, 288 U. S. at
294, whether tested by state law, 323 U. S. at 357, or by
perfection "as a matter of actual fact, regardless of how
complete it [the lien] may have been as a matter of state
law." Ibid., 358. The state has acquired neither title
nor possession, Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396; New

York v. Maclay, 288 U. S. 290, since the receiver's possession was that of the court, not of the state, and did
not sever the property from the debtor's general assets as
of the crucial date.
To permit the recording of the notices or the receiver's
appointment, or both, in circumstances like these, to overcome the Government's priority would be in substance to
overrule the numerous decisions cited in which liens no
less "specific and perfected" have been held impotent for
that purpose. It would open the door, too, we think, to
substantial nullification of the Government's priority.
For then this could be accomplished simply by recorded
notices of lien, disclosing claims to property not segregated from the debtor's general estate; designated only by
general words of classification, including after-acquired
property as here; and ascertainable definitively only by
further procedures. Congress alone should make such a
change, if it should be made at all.
The judgment is affirmed.18
MR.

JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

In my opinion the notices of lien caused to be duly
recorded by Illinois on April 3, May 8 and May 20, 1942,
18As we affirm the judgment on the ground that the United States
under Rev. Stat. § 3466 has priority over Illinois as to all federal
insurance contributions taxes owing it, we do not consider the argument that, even if this general priority did not exist, the United States
would be entitled to the amount of the fund which represents
employees' taxes.

ILLINOIS v. CAMPBELL.
362

RnED, J., dissenting.

with the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois, perfected and made specific the state's claim under its unemployment compensation statute. These notices named
the creditor and gave his precise address. They stated
the amount of the claim and asserted a lien for the aggregate sum upon all the personal property owned and used
by the lienee in connection with its business. • Under any
view of chattel lien law. such a legally recorded instrument would create a lien in the lienor on the personal
property owned and used by the taxpayer at his place of
business superior to the rights of general creditors or subsequent innocent purchasers for value. This is true by
statute in Illinois. Jones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) § 45.154
(b) (1), Unemployment Compensation Act of Illinois.
The Court deems that the lien attaches to specific and
ascertainable property of the taxpayer only when the
taxpayer files his schedule of property in proceedings to
enforce the lien.' I deem the recorded notice as the inci-'.Iones Ill. Stat. Ann. (1944) § 45.154 (e):
"Foreclosure of lien. In addition and as an alternative to any
other remedy provided by this Act, or by the laws of the State of
Illinois the Director may enforce the lien herein created by petition
in the name of the People of the State of Illinois to the Circuit Court
of the. couxqty wherein the property subject to the lien 18 situated;
praying that the lien which-has attached to.said property, be foreclosed
and the aforesaid property be sold in the same manner as in cases of
foreclosure of mortgages upon personal property in courts of record.
In all such cases, it shall not be necessary that said petition describe
the property to which said lien has attached and it shall be the .duty
of the employer against whom such petition has been filed to file in
said proceedings, a full and complete schedule, under oath, of all per-.
sonal property and rights thereto which he owned. at the time the,
contributions, upon which the lien *sought to be foreclosed in [is]
based, become due, or which he subsequently acquired, indicating upon
such schedule the property so owned by such. employer which was,
or is used by such employer in connection with- his. trade, occupation,
profession or business, and if such employer shall so fail to do after
having been so ordered by the court, he may be punished as in other
cases of contempt of court."

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

dent that consummates the lien upon the specific and ascertainable property. The enforcement proceedings after
that recordation are only an enforcement of a lien already
fixed upon the specific property adequately described in
the recorded notice.
The Court suggests that the ruling in United States v.
Texas, 314 U. S. 480, that the statutory lien on "property
devoted to or used in his business" is not a specific and
fixed lien entitled to priority over the United States, is
persuasive that similar words in the Illinois statute are not
specific and constant. But in the Texas case, no steps had
been taken to fix the amount of the lien on the property
devoted to the business, p. 487. Of course, therefore, the
lien could not be fixed and certain. This final step to
perfect the lien had been taken in the present case.
As the Court concludes no specific lien attaches to ascertainable property, I content myself with adding, as to the
respective priorities of the United States and a lienor with
a specific lien on ascertainable property, that in my opinion
such a lienor has priority for his lien despite Rev. Stat.
§ 3466. See Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396, 424;
Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386, 441; United
States v. Waddill Co., 323 U. S. 353,355.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

joins in this dissent.

