OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

Therefore Chief Justice Marshall's comments were directed at a situation that does not exist here.
A concurring opinion has been filed which holds that
Congress in the act here involved "created an obligation
on the part of the Government to pay these Indians" for
their Indian title. We do not think this present act is
susceptible of that interpretation. We read the-act, as we
understand our Brethren do, to permit recovery of compensation only in case there were rights in the Indians
prior to its passage "arising under or growing out of the
original Indian title." We think no rights arose from this
Indian title. Therefore no compensation is due.
As we are of the opinion that the jurisdictional act permitted judgment only for claims arising under or growing
out of the original Indian title and are further of the opinion that there were no legal or equitable claims that grew
out of the taking of this Indian title, we would reverse the
judgment of the Court of Claims and direct that the bill
of the respondents should be dismissed. Cf. Shoshone
Indians v. United States, 324 U. S. 335.

UNITED STATES v. HOWARD P. FOLEY CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 50. Argued October 25, 1946.-Decided November 25, 1946.
1. Under the government construction contract here involved, for
installation of lighting of the runways of an airport, the Government was not liable for damages for delay in making the runways
available to-the contractor, though the delay prevented completion
within the specified time, since the contract did not obligate the
Government expressly or impliedly to make the runways available
promptly, it contained provisions anticipating delays caused by the
Government and providing remedies other than an award of damages to the contractor, and no fault actually was chargeable to the,

Government.

Pp. 66-67.

UNITED STATES v. FOLEY CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

2. The fact that no other contractor was involved in this case does
not require a result different from that reached in Crook Co. v.
United States, 270 U. S. 4, and United States v. Rice, 317 U. S.
61. P. 68.
105 Ct. Cl. 161, 63 F. Supp. 209, reversed.

Respondent brought suit in the Court of Claims upon'a
contract and was awarded a judgment against the United
States. 105 Ct. C1. 161, 63 F. Supp. 209. This Court
granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 777. Reversed, p. 69.
A. Devitt Vanech argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath,Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Stanley M.
Silverberg, Paul A. Sweeney,Abraham J. Harrisand M. M.
Heuser.
Alexander M. Heron argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was William L. Owen.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Court of Claims rendered a judgment for the respondent and against the Government for an asserted
breach of a construction contract. 105 Ct. Cl. 161, 63 F.
Supp. 209. We granted the Government's petition for
certiorari which alleged that the Court of Claims' decision was in direct conflict with Crook Co. v. United States,
270 U. S. 4, and United States v. Rice, 317 U. S. 61. We
hold that the Government's contention is correct.
The respondent, an electrical, contractor, agreed for a
fixed fee to supply the materials for and install a field
lighting systemat the National Airport, Gravelly Point,
Virginia, then under construction. The agreement was
embodied in a standard form Government contract. Respondent promised to complete the job. within 120 days
after notice to proceed. In fact the job was not finished
until 277 days after notice was given. The delay came

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

about in this way. The site of the airport was being built
up from under water by a fast but then unique method of
hydraulic dredging. As portions of the earth base for the
runways and taxiways settled, they were to be paved and
the shoulders "rough-graded." As segments of this work
were finished, respondent was to move in, wire them, and
install the lighting fixtures. The dredging took longer
than Government engineers had anticipated, because some
of the dredged soil, proving, to be too unstable for runways and taxiways, had to be replaced. This in turn delayed completion of the runway sections; and, until each
was finished, the lighting equipment for each segment
could not be installed. The 157 days delay resulted from
the consequently long and irregular intervals between the
times when these segments were made available to respondent to do its job. But for these delays, respondent
apparently could have finished its work in 120 days.
The Court of Claims considered that the Government
breached its contract by failing to make the runways available in time for respondent to do its work within 120 days.
The judgment against the Government was for certain
overhead and administrative expenses which respondent
incurred during the consequent period of delay.'
In no single word, clause, or sentence in the contract does
the Government expressly covenant to make the runways
available to respondent at any particular time. Cf. United
,States v. Blair, 321 U. S. 730, 733-734. It is suggested
that the obligation of respondent to complete the job in
120 days can be inverted into a promise by the Government not to cause performance to be delayed beyond that
time by its negligence. But even if this provision stand1 The

damages awarded were for the wages respondent paid super-

visory employees who stood by during the delay intervals, and for
certain expenses of respondent incurred on account of these employees
for unemployment and similar taxes.

UNITED STATES v. FOLEY CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

ing alone could be stretched to mean that the Government
obligated itself to exercise the highest degree of diligence
and the utmost good faith in efforts to make the runways
promptly available, the facts of this case would show
no breach of such an undertaking. For the Court of
Claims found that the Government's representatives did
this work "with great, if not unusual, diligence," and that
"no fault is or can be attributed to them." Consequently,
the Government cannot be held liable unless the contract
can be interpreted to imply an unqualified warranty to
make the runways promptly available.
We can find no such warranty if we are to be consistent
with our Crook and Rice decisions, supra. The pertinent
provisions in the instant contract are, in every respect here
material, substantially the same as those which were held
in the formcr cases to impose no obligation on the Government to pay damages for delay. Here, as in the former
cases, there are several contract provisions which showed
that the parties not only anticipated that the Government
might not finish its work as originally planned, but also
provided in advance to protect the contractor from the
consequences of such governmental delay, should it occur.
The contract reserved a governmental right to make
changes in the work which might cause interruption and
delay, required respondent to coordinate his work with the
other work being done on the site, and clearly contemplated that he would take up his work on the runway sections as they were intermittently completed and paved.
Article 9 of the contract, entitled "Delays-Damages," set
out a procedure to govern both parties in case of respondent's delay in completion, whether such delay was caused
by respondent, the Government, or other causes. If delay
were caused by respondent, the Government could terminate the contract, take over the work, and hold respondent
and its sureties liable. Or, in the alternative, the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ment could collect liquidated damages. If, on the other
hand, delay were due to "acts of the Government" or other
specified events, including "unforeseeable causes," procedure was outlined for extending the time in which respondent was required to complete its contract, and relieving
him from the penalties of contract termination or liquidated damages.
In the Crook and Rice cases we held that the Government could not be held liable for delay in making its work
available to contractors unless the terms of the contract
imposed such liability. Those contracts, practically identical with the one here, were held to impose none. See also
United States v. Blair, supra. The distinction which the
Court of Claims found between this and the prior cases is
not in point. It seems to be this: In the Crook and Rice
cases the Government had a prime and a subcontractor:
the Government reserved a right to make changes by
which the prime contractor must thereafter be governed;
the Government exercised this right; these changes made
it impossible for the prime contractor and ultimately
the subcontractor to do their work in time; since the
Government had reserved the right against the prime
contractor to make these changes, and the subcontractor
knew this, the Government was not contractually responsible for the delay. Therefore it is suggested that the
subcontractor in the Rice and Crook cases could know
in advance that the performance time was "provisional,"
whereas here the contractor had reason to believe that it
was certain. But in this case there is ample indication,
both in the extrinsic facts and in the contract terms, that
changes and delays were anticipated and remedies therefor provided. The contractor here only lacked the one
additional indication that changes were anticipated which
he could have read from the prime contract had there been
a prime contract and if a prime contract had been available
for him to read. If this be a distinction, it is a distinction

RICHFIELD OIL CORP. v. STATE BOARD. 69
64

Syllabus.

with no significant difference. This contract, like the
others, shows that changes and delays were anticipated and
provided for. The question on which all these cases turn
is: Did the Government obligate itself to pay damages to a
contractor solely because of delay in making the work
available?

We hold again that it did not for the reasons

elaborated in the Crook and Rice decisions.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, and MR.
dissent. It is admitted that the Government had given the contractor "notice to proceed" which
in our opinion had the legal consequences set forth in the
opinion of the court below whose judgment we would
JUSTICE JACKSON

affirm.
RICHFIELD OIL CORP. v. STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 46.

Argued October 24, 1946.-Decided November 25, 1946.

1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of California reversing, without
directions, a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit for a refund of a tax
unconstitutionally levied on an export under the California Retail
Sales Tax Act, the case having been tried on the pleadings and stipulated facts and the State Supreme Court having passed on the issues
which control the litigation, held reviewable here as a "final judgment" within the meaning of Judicial Code ยง 237, 28 U. S. C. ยง 344
(a). P. 72.
2. Appellant, which was engaged in producing and selling oil in California, entered into a contract for the sale of oil to the New Zealand
Government. The oil was delivered by appellant from dockside
tanks into a vessel of the New Zealand Government at a California
port; was consigned to a New Zealand official at Auckland; was
transported to New Zealand; and none of it was used or consumed
in the United States. Appellant filed with the Collector of Customs

