OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

ORDER OF RAILWAY CONDUCTORS OF

AMERICA ET AL. v. SWAN ET AL.
NO. 63.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT."

Argued December 10, 11, 1946.-Decided January 13, 1947.
1 Members of the First and Fourth Divisions of the National Railroad Adjustment Board were evenly divided, in each division, as
to whether under the Railway Labor Act their division has jurisdiction of disputes involving yardmasters. It was conceded that
neither the Second nor the Third Division has jurisdiction of such
disputes. No settlement of such disputes was possible in these
circumstances. Held: The federal courts have jurisdiction under
Judicial Code § 274d of a suit by interested parties for a declaratory
judgment to determine which division of the Board has jurisdiction
of such disputes. Switchmen's Union v. Mediation Board. 320
U. S. 297; General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323;
and General Committee v. Southern Pacific Co., 320 U. S. 338,
distinguished. P. 524.
2. Under the Railway Labor Act, yardmasters are not 'yard-service
employees" within the jurisdiction of the First Division of the
National Railroad Adjustment Board. Pp. 524-529.
3. Under the Railway Labor Act, disputes involving yardmasters
are exclusively within the "catch-all" jurisdiction of the Fourth
Division of the National Railroad Adjustment Board. P. 530.
.4. Whatever persuasive effect prior administrative adjudications on
the jurisdictional issue may have had is destroyed by present and
prolonged administrative deadlock on this issue. P. 529.
5. Although amendatory bills which would have specifically excluded
yardmasters from the jurisdiction of the First Division of the Adjustment Board were introduced and referred to an appropriate congressional committee, the failure of Congress to amend the statute
is without significance for purposes of statutory interpretation,
*where the committee held no hearings and made no report. P. 529.
152 F. 2d 325, affirmed.
*Together with No. 64, Williams et al. v. Swan et al., also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. SWAN.
520

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners, two national labor organizations, brought
an action in the District Court under Judicial .Code § 274d
against members of the First and Fourth Divisions of the
National Railroad Adjustment Board, seeking a declaratory judgment to the effect that the First Division has
jurisdiction under the Railway Labor Act of disputes involving yardmasters. Another national labor organization and two railroad companies were allowed to intervene.
The District Court held that yardmaster disputes are
within the jurisdiction of the Fourth Division of the
Board. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 152 F.
2d 325. This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 776.
Affirmed, p. 530.
V. C. Shuttleworth argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were H. E. Wilmarth, Everett L.
Gordonand Leo J. Hassenauer.
Douglas F. Smith argued the cause for Carrier Members of the First and Fourth Divisions et al., respondents.
With him on the brief were Kenneth F. Burgess, R. J.
Hagman, Bryce L. Hamilton, Burton Mason and John A.
Sheean.
Anan Raymond argued the cause for the Railroad
Yardmasters of America, respondents. With him on the
brief was ConradH. Poppenhusen.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered -the opinion of the
Court.
Our attention here is directed to a determination of
which division of the National Railroad Adjustment
Board has jurisdiction over disputes involving railroad
yardmasters. The four divisions of the Board and their
respective jurisdictions are established by § 3. First (h),
of the Railway Labor Act, as amended in 1934.1
'4S Stat. 1185, 1190-1191; 45 U. S. C. § 153, First (h).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Each division of the Board is composed of an equal
number of representatives of carriers and of national labor
organizations. The statute authorizes the carriers and
the national labor organizations to select their respective
representatives and to designate the division on which
each such representative shall serve. § 3, First (b) and
(c). The jurisdiction of the divisions relates to disputes growing out of "grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions . . ." § 3, First (i). Disputes involving employees in certain specifically designated crafts are assigned to each division; the Fourth
Division also has a "catch-all" jurisdiction over all disputes
not assigned to one of the other'three divisions. Appropriate provisions are made for hearings and for the entry
of an award, to be followed by an order directed to the
carrier if the award be in favor of the petitioner. In the
event that the carrier fails to comply with the order, the
petitioner or any person for whose benefit the order was
made may seek enforcement of the order in a federal district court. § 3, First (p). In such suits, "the findings
and order of the division of the Adjustment Board
shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein
stated . . ." And the court is given power to take such
action as may be appropriate to enforce or set aside the
order. See Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation
Board,320 U. S. 297,305.
Two of the national labor organizations are the Order
of Railway Conductors and the Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen, petitioners herein. Their membership includes a small portion of the total number of railroad
yardmasters in the country, approximately 20% of the
total on the basis of the railroad mileage represented.
Each of these organizations has one representative on the
First Division and each contends that all yardmaster disputes must be heard solely by that division. But that

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. SWAN.
520

523

Opinion of the Court.

contention is contradicted by the Railroad Yardmasters
of America, a national labor organization composed almost entirely of yardmasters and claiming to represent
more than 70% of all the yardmasters in the country.
That organization, which is an intervenor-respondent
herein, has failed to place a representative on any of the
four divisions. Along with certain other organizations
representing the, small balance of yardmasters, it claims
that yardmaster disputes lie within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Fourth Division. Various carriers with
representatives on both the First and the Fourth Divisions
join in that qlaim.
The result of this controversy is a stalemate so far as
yardmaster disputes are concerned. The carrier and the
labor members of the First Division are split evenly, the
carrier members claiming that the division has no jurisdiction over these matters. The members of the Fourth
Division are also evenly divided on the jurisdictional
question, the labor members being of the view that yardmaster disputes are outside that division's jurisdiction.
And since all the parties concede that neither the Second
nor the Third Division has jurisdiction, no settlement of
these disputes is possible under the present situation.2
2

A decree. was entered in the District Court in 1938 commanding

the Fourth Division to hear and determine certain disputes involving yardmasters. That case arose on a petition for mandamus filed
by the Railroad Yardmasters of America against the members of the
Fourth Division. After issuance of summons, the members of the
Fourth Division appeared and filed an answer stating that they were
of the opinion that the Fourth Division did have jurisdiction. The
decree was then entered with the consent of the parties to the action,
but without argument and without the District Court being aware
that a public question was involved and that other parties had an
interest in the matter. The District Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the instant case held that this 1938 decree was not res
judicataof the issue now presented in view of the circumstances under
which it was entered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The Order of Railway Conductors and the Brotherhood
of Railroad Trainmen brought this action under 28 U. S. C.
§ 400 (1) to obtain a declaratory judgment to the effect
that the First Division has sole jurisdiction over yardmaster disputes. Members of the First and Fourth Divisions were made parties defendant; and the Railroad
Yardmasters of America, the Great Northern Railway
Company and the Southern Pacific Company were allowed
to intervene. The District Court, after a hearing, held
that yardmaster disputes fall within the "catch-all" jurisdiction of the Fourth Division. The Circuit Court of
Appeals agreed. 152 F. 2d 325. We granted certiorari
because the issue raised is one of importance in the orderly
administration of the Railway Labor Acf. 327 U. S. 776.
At the outstart it is important to note that judicial
review of this matter is not precluded by the principles
set forth in Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation
Board, supra, and companion cases, General Committee
v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323, and General Committee
v. Southern Pacific Co., 320 U. S. 338. We are dealing here
with something quite different from an administrative
determination which Congress has made final and beyond
the realm of judicial scrutiny. We are dealing with a
jurisdictional frustration on an administrative level, making impossible the issuance of administrative orders which
Congress explicitly has opened to review by the courts.
Until that basic jurisdictional controversy is settled, the
procedure contemplated by § 3 of the Railway Labor Act
remains a dead letter so far as yardmasters are concerned
and the statutory rights of such persons become atrophied.
A declaratory judgment action is therefore appropriate to
remove such an administrative stagnation.
In other instances, we have left the problem of jurisdiction to b6 determined in the first instance by the ad-

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. SWAN.
620

Opinion of the Court.

ministrative agency. Myer8 v. Bethlehem Corp., 303
U. S. 41. But here both the First and the Fourth Divisions of the Board, due to the evenly-matched membership of railroad and labor representatives, appear hopelessly divided on the jurisdictional issue, making a determination impossible. Judicial guidance at this stage is
justified as long as such a condition exists.
The issue is primarily one of statutory interpretation.
The First Division is given jurisdiction over disputes "involving train- and yard-service employees of carriers;
that is, engineers, firemen, hostlers, and outside hostler
helpers, conductors, trainmen, and yard-service employees." The Fourth Division's jurisdiction extends to
disputes "involving employees of carriers directly or indirectly engaged in transportation of passengers or property by water, and all other employees of carriers over
which jurisdiction is not given to the first, second, and
third divisions." It is agreed that the only possible category under the First Division into which yardmasters
might be placed is "yard-service employees." But if they
cannot be so placed, they must necessarily fall into the
"catch-all" jurisdiction of the Fourth Division. The
problem thus is to determine what Congress meant when
it used the term "yard-service employees."
There is no statutory definition of "yard-service employees." Nor is the term explained in any of the relevant
legislative debates or reports; and it derives no meaning
from the statutory policy or framework. Moreover, it is
not in common or general usage outside of the railroad
world. It is a technical term found only in railroad parlance. Evidence as to the meaning attached to it by those
who are familiar with such parlance therefore becomes
relevant in determining the meaning of the term as used
by Congress. See O'Hara v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 269
U. S. 364, 370-371.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The parties, all of whom are well acquainted with railroad terminology, stipulated certain facts. It was agreed
that a railroad yard is a system of tracks within defined
limits over which movements of engines and cars not
authorized by timetable or train order may be made, subject to prescribed signals and rules or special instructions.
It was further agreed that the "yard-service employees"
or "yardmen" working in a yard perform such functions
as switching, making and breaking up trains, moving and
storing cars, inspecting cars and freight, repairing cars,
maintaining equipment, sending and receiving messages,
keeping records and making reports. As to yardmasters,
the stipulation stated: "All such yardmen and other employees performing work in a yard are directed and supervised in their work by a yardmaster, with the aid, if necessary, of one or more assistant yardmasters. Yardmasters
do not and may not perform the work of yardmen and employees in train and engine service; they may perform
some clerical work, if their entire time is not taken up with
the direction and supervision of yardmen and other employees working in yards. .

.

In general, yardmasters

run the yards, of which they are in charge, and they are
responsible for conditions within the same. Necessarily,
they exercise a substantial measure of individual initiative
and responsibility."
All of the witnesses who testified at the hearing agreed
that yardmasters are functionally different from other
employees working in yards due to their supervisory activities and responsibilities. The evidence also indicated
that yardmasters have supervision over some who work
within the yards but who are not spoken of as "yard-service employees," such as storekeepers, section men and
clerks. On the crucial point, there was substantial agreement among the witnesses that yardmasters are not commonly designated in railroad parlance as "yard-service

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. SWAN.
520

527

Opinion of the Court.

employees," that term being reserved for the yardmen
described in the stipulation who work under the supervision of the yardmasters.3
The documentary evidence submitted by the parties
tends to bear out this testimony. Thus numerous past
awards made by the First and Fourth Divisions speak of
yardmasters as distinct from yardmen or yard-service employees.' And the Interstate Commerce Commission, in
making various classifications of railroad employees, recognizes a clear distinction between yardmasters and those
3 Petitioners' sole witness testified: "Yardmen are usually men who
have to do with the making up and breaking up of trains, switching in
the yard, and supervising the work of the yardmen, which would
include, in my opinion, yardmasters and assistant yardmasters." But
his opinion as to yardmasters in this respect was based upon his
understanding of the law, not upon his own use or his knowledge of
the use of the term "yard-service employees." He explained his
belief that "every tribunal that has decided a dispute for men engaged
in yard service, such as yard engineers, firemen, hostlers, hostler
helpers, road conductors, trainmen and yardmen, have also decided
cases for yardmasters and assistant yardmasters. Division 1, set up
under, by agreement, in 1918, the very first board in existence, did
that. The Western Train Service Board, upon which I served, did
that, as evidenced by Board decisions submitted here as an exhibit."
This witness also stated that yardmasters "fit more nearly in with
the yard service employees than with any other class"-a recognition
that yardmasters are different in fact from yard-service employees and
that they do not fit precisely within that category.
'See National Railroad Adjustment Board, First Division, Award
No. 1274 (July 13, 1936), Award No. 1464 (Oct. 7, 1936), Award No.
1603 (Dec. 14, 1936), Award No. 1648 (Jan. 21, 1937), Award No.
1728 (Feb. 11, 1937), Award No. 1896 (April 15, 1937), Award No.
2065 (July 16, 1937), Award No. 2364 (Nov. 12, 1937), Award No.
4466 (Jan. 15, 1940), Award No. 4548 (Feb. 8, 1940), Award No.
4584 (Feb. 20, 1940), Award No. 5816 (June 24, 1941), Award No.
7355 (Oct. 15, 1942); Fourth Division, Award No. 67 (July 25,
1940).

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

over whom they have supervision.5 In addition, other
documents introduced into the record and sources to which
the parties have made reference either show the same distinction or are inconclusive on the matter.'
;The District Court was therefore justified in finding as a
fact that railroad usage has never included yardmasters
and assistant yardmasters within the meaning of the terms
"yard-service employees" or "yardmen." That court
was also correct in concluding that the history of the adjustment of disputes prior to the amendment of the present statute in 1934 affords no assistance in resolving the
problem confronting us. As pointed out more fully by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 152 F. 2d at 327-328, disputes involving yardmasters and disputes involving yardservice employees were previously submitted to various
adjustment boards, which had been created by agreement,
primarily on the basis of membership in signatory labor
organizations. Jurisdiction was not then grounded, as
it is now, on a craft or job classification irrespective of the
labor organization representing the particular employees
involved. Hence there was no occasion giving rise to a
consistent and unequivocal administrative interpretation
of the. term "yard-service employees" to include yardmasters-an interpretation which, had it existed, might
have shed some light on the adoption of the term by Congress in 1934.
5See Ex parte No. 72 (Nov. 24, 1920, unreported); Ex parte No.
106, Six-Hour Day Investigation, 190 I. C. C. 750. The forms and
classification plan to be used in reporting wage and compensation data
of steam railroad employees to the United States Railroad Labor Board
and the Interstate Commerce Commission place yardmasters under
"Supervisory Skilled Trades and Labor Service," while those performing yard-service work are placed under "'Train and Engine Service."
6 Thus the method used by the National Railroad Adjustment
Board in indexing awards of the First Division does not provide any
helpful guide as to the usage of "yard-service employees" in the
railroad world.

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. SWAN.
520

529

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners also urge that the jurisdiction of the First
Division over yardmaster disputes is established by the
settled administrative action of that division since its
creation in 1934.' There is a serious question whether
the jurisdictional issue now before us was fully considered by the division in many of the cases to which reference is made; certainly none of the awards did more than
recite perfunctorily that the division had jurisdiction over
the particular dispute. And none of the awards involved
the Railroad Yardmasters of America, which has consistently objected to the assumption of jurisdiction by the
First Division.' But aside from those factors, the present
and prolonged administrative deadlock on the jurisdictional issue destroys whatever persuasive effect these prior
adjudications by the First Division may have had. The
administrative action has become anything but settled.
Finally, petitioners point out that Congress has failed
to amend § 3, First (h), so as specifically to exclude "yardmasters and other subordinate officers" from the jurisdiction of the First Division, despite the introduction of two
bills to that effect in the Senate in 1940 and 1941.1 These
bills were sent to an appropriate committee, but were
never reported out. It does not appear whether the bills
died because they were thought to be unnecessary or undesirable. No hearings were held; no committee reports
were made. Under such circumstances, the 'failure of
Congress to amend the statute is without meaning for
purposes of statutory interpretation.
We accordingly agree with the two courts below that
yardmasters are not "yard-service employees" within the
jurisdiction of the First Division of the National Railroad
TSee cases cited in footnote 4, supra.
See footnote 2, supra.
S. 4375, 76th Cong., 3d Sess.; S. 1660, 77th Cong., 1st Sess. Both
bills were introduced by Senator Smith at the request of the American
Short Line Railroad Association.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

329 U. S.

Adjustment Board. Yardmaster disputes fall exclusively
within the "catch-all" jurisdiction of the Fourth
Division.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.
After the fullest consideration this Court recently held
in two cases that jurisdictional disputes between railroad
unions subject to the Railway Labor Act are not within
judicial competence. Switchmen's Union v. Board, 320
U. S. 297; General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320
U. S. 323. The decision in those cases derived from the
fact that Congress "had not expressly authorized judicial
review" and the history, the setting, and the implications
of railway labor controversies counseled against inferring
judicial review. Here we have a controversy between two
divisions of the National Railroad Adjustment Board as
to the disputes over which they respectively have jurisdiction. This controversy, however, entails consideration
of technical problems in the railroad world and consequences in construing the distribution of authority among
the divisions of the Adjustment Board for which judicial
review seems no more appropriate than it did to settle
jurisdictional conflicts between railroad brotherhoods.
Not finding any command in the statute for judicial review
of this controversy, it seems to me, therefore, appropriate
to leave it to the mediatory resources of the Railway Labor
Act. If it be said that thus far deadlock has resulted,
it does notfollow that it will continue, if the Court keeps
hands off. In any event, because mediatory machinery
may not be effective is not a sufficient reason for judicial
intervention, unless the direction of Congress is much
more clear than I find it in the Railway Labor Act. This
view is reinforced by the fact that the decision of the Court
may oe no more than an advisory opinion. My doubts

PARKER v" FLEMING.
520

Counsel for Parties.

have not commended themselves to the Court, but since
I am not alone in entertaining them it seemed to me that
they should be expressed.
PARKER ET AL. v. FLEMING, TEMPORARY
CONTROLS ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE EMERGENCY COURT OF APPEALS.

No. 80.

Argued December 18, 1946.-Decided January 20,1947.

Under rent regulations promulgated pursuant to the Emergency Price
Control Act, the Price Administrator issued an order granting to
landlords of residential properties special certificates authorizing
eviction proceedings. Held: The tenants were "subject to" the
order, within the meaning of § 203 (a) of the Act, and had a right
to file a protest with the Administrator; and were entitled, under
§ 204 (a) of the Act, to judicial review of the Administrator's dismissal of their protest. Pp. 533, 538.
154 F. 2d 830, reversed.

The Price Administrator dismissed petitioners' protest
against an order issued by him under rent regulations
promulgated pursuant to the Emergency Price Control
Act. The Emergency Court of Appeals dismissed petitioners' complaint. 154 F. 2d 830. This Court granted
certiorari. 328 U. S. 828. The Temporary Controls Administrator was substituted for the Price Administrator
as the respondent in this Court. Reversed, p. 538.
Alexander Pfeiffer argued the cause and filed a brief for

petitioners.
Carl A. Auerbach argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, John R. Benney, Richard H. Field, Harry H.
Schneiderand Bernard A. Stol.

