ALBRECHT v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
ALBRECHT
NO. 148.

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.'

Argued January 8, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.
Contracts for the purchase of lands by the Government stipulated
the purchase price, granted the right of immediate possession, but
contained no provision for interest. The Government subsequently
instituted condemnation proceedings, filed a declaration of taking,
and deposited in court sums substantially less than the contract
prices. The landowners asserted their contract rights. The validity of the contracts having thereafter been judicially established, the
Government paid into court the full contract price. Held:
1. The Government is not obligated in these circumstances to pay
interest, since the compensation of the landowners is controlled by
the contracts, which contained no provision for interest, rather than
by the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 600, 602.
2. The landowners having relied upon the purchase-price provisions of their contracts, the interest provisions of the Declaration
of Taking Act are inapplicable. P. 604.
155 F. 2d 73, 77, affirmed.

In condemnation proceedings instituted by the Government, the landowners, petitioners here, relied upon the
purchase-price provisions of earlier contracts and in addi-

tion claimed interest. In No. 151, the District Court, on
the question of interest, held for the Government. 60 F.
Supp. 741. In the other cases, the District Court held
for the landowners. 61 F. Supp. 199. The Circuit Court

of Appeals held for the Government. 155 F. 2d 73, 77.
This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 694. Affirmed,
p. 606.
*Together with No. 149, Linnenbringer v. United States; No. 150,
Pitman et al. v. United States: No. 151, Oliver, Executor, et al. v.
United States; and No. 155, Q. W. S. S. Realty & Investment Co. v.
United States, also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Richmond C. Coburn and Samuel M. Watson argued
the cause for petitioners. With them on the brief were
George Eigel, William L. Igoe and William H. Allen.
Roscoe Anderson filed a brief for petitioner in No. 149.
Roger P. Marquis argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor
General Washington, Assistant Attorney GeneralBazelon
and Wilma C. Martin.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question here is whether the Government is obligated to pay interest in connection with the following landpurchase arrangements and condemnation proceedings.
The Government made separate contracts with the petitioners to buy certain lands from them to be used for a
public purpose. The contracts stipulated a purchase price
to be paid at an indefinite future time when certain conditions had been fulfilled.' They also granted the Government the right to immediate possession. Later the Government questioned the validity of the contracts and attempted to rescind them on the ground that by reason
of fraud and other things the contract prices were grossly
excessive and represented far more than the "just compensation" required by the Fifth Amendment. It filed
condemnation proceedings in District Courts under 40
Stat. 241, as amended, 50 U. S. C. ยง 171, asking the Courts
to fix "just compensation" after hearing evidence on that
subject. It also filed a declaration of taking under 46
1 The

first contract condition as to payment was that it should be

made upon conveyance of a good and merchantable title. The second
was that if "for any reason" the Attorney General did not approve
the title, the Government could obtain a good title by condemnation
proceedings in an appropriate district court, in which event the agreed
compensation was to be deposited in court.

ALBRECHT v. UNITED STATES.
599

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C. ยง 258a, at the same time depositing
in the Courts sums of money, substantially less than the
contract prices, which it estimated to be the true "just
compensation" for the property taken. The Courts then
entered orders divesting the property owners of all title
and vesting it in the Government. A companion case in
which a District Court held an identical contract valid was
appealed and eventually reached this Court. Prior to
and pending this appeal these petitioners vigorously
asserted the validity of the terms of the contracts which
fixed the agreed prices for transfer of possession and title
to their properties. Several years later this Court upheld
the validity of the identical contract in the companion
case. 2 Thereupon the Government, complying with that
decision, paid the full contract purchase prices into the
District Courts. It prayed that the landowners' compensation be fixed as the contract price without interest. Petitioners asserted that they had a right to interest from the
time of the "taking," guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment's provision for "just compensation." The Government contended that the "just compensation" provision
was not applicable, and that petitioners lhad no right to
interest because their purchase contracts did not provide
for it. One District Court decided this question in favor
of the Government, 60 F. Supp. 741, but two decided
against it. 61 F. Supp. 199.' The Circuit Court of ApMuschany v. United States, 324 U. S. 49.
of the petitioners claimed interest from the date the Government took possession of the lands under the contract to the date the
Government deposited the full contract price. One petitioner claimed
interest only from the date of the filing of the declaration of taking on
the difference on that date between the sum the Government deposited
as the estimated "just compensation" and the full contract price
finally deposited. Interest was awarded by the two District Courts
on this latter theory only from the date of the declaration of taking.
2

3 Some

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

peals held for the Government. 155 F. 2d 73, 77. In a
case involving somewhat similar facts, United States v.
Baugh, 149 F. 2d 190, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit had decided against the Government. Because of the apparent conflict presented and because the
question is of widespread importance, we granted certiorari. The facts and issues, so far as we deem them relevant
to disposition of all the cases, are identical, and so we
consider all of them together.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Government is not obligated to pay interest in these cases.
It is true that in cases submitted to them for determination
of "just compensation," courts have evolved a rule
whereby an element of compensation designated as interest is sometimes allowed. Under this rule, and in the
absence of an agreement of the parties fixing compensation, courts first fix the fair market value of property as
of the time it is taken. The property owner, against
whom there is no counterclaim, is always entitled to payment of this much. But where payment of that fair
market value is deferred, it has been held that something
more than fair market value is required to make the property owner whole, to afford him "just compensation."
This additional element of compensation has been measured in terms of reasonable interest. Thus, "just compensation" in the constitutional sense has been held, absent
a settlement between the parties, to be fair market value
at the time of taking plus "interest" from that date to
the date of payment.'
But the method used by courts to determine "just compensation" in an adversary proceeding where the parties
Seaboard Air Line v. United States, 261 U. S. 299, 306; Shoshone
Tribe v. United States, 299 U. S. 476, 496, 497; Jacobs v. United

States, 290 U. S. 13, 16-17; United States v. Klamath Indians, 304
U. S. 119, 123.

ALBRECHT v. UNITED STATES.
599

Opinion of the Court.

have failed previously to agree on its amount is not the
exclusive method for determining that question. The
Fifth Amendment does not prohibit landowners and the
Government from agreeing between themselves as to what
is just compensation for property taken. See Danforth
v. United States, 308 U. S. 271. Nor does it bar them from
embodying that agreement in a contract, as was done here.
And certainly where a party to such a contract stands
upon its terms to enforce them for his own advantage,
he cannot at the same time successfully disavow those
terms so far as he conceives them to be to his disadvantage.
That is precisely the position of the petitioners here. They
made contracts for the transfer and possession of lands at
prices concerning which they have never complained. At
the end of prolonged litigation, the Government was
barred from showing that compensations fixed by the contracts were not just, but were excessive. Having thus
bound the Government to the contract prices as the measure of "just compensation," which prices, to say the least,
generously meet the Fifth Amendment's "just compensation" requirement, they now seek to escape the burdens
of these identical contract provisions. They invoke the
Fifth Amendment in pursuit of something more than the
compensation for which their contracts provide-contracts
which they are not willing to abandon.
The answer to their contention is that in this posture
of the cases these transactions have passed out of the range
of the Fifth Amendment. For the reasoning on which
interest is added to value as a part of "just compensation"
in court condemnation proceedings is not applicable to
this situation. That reasoning is that when a court determines just compensation, it first fixes bare value at the
time of the taking and adds a sum to compensate for
deferred payment of bare value so as to make the property
owner whole as required by the Fifth Amendment. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

do not think this formula fits contractual arrangements
for compensation. Exactly what factors the parties consider, in addition to bare value, cannot easily be ascertained. This very group of transactions illustrates that
there may be many such additional factors. For example,
all the contracts here provided for immediate Government
possession, though none contemplated immediate payments. We cannot know what amounts were added in
the bargains to the bare market values as estimated,
though unarticulated, allowances for the anticipated delays in payment. And other factors, which need not be
enumerated, entered into the contract prices. These
things demonstrate the inadvisability of applying a constitutional rule as to interest, specially designed to enable
courts to calculate "just compensation," to an entirely
different situation in which parties, supposedly with due
regard to their own interests, bargain between themselves
as to compensation. Since these petitioners have chosen
to stand on their contract terms as to the amount they will
receive for their property, rather ihan to have "just compensation," in the constitutional sense, fixed by the courts,
we must look to those terms for the measure of their
compensation, including their right to that part of compensation which courts have called interest.
We have not overlooked the contention that this conclusion is in conflict with our holding in Danforth v.
United States, 308 U. S. 271. We do not think it is. That
was also a case in which a statute authorized Government
agents to purchase property, and a price had been agreed
on prior to condemnation proceedings. But the asserted
interest claim was there denied. The decision in that case
reasserted the principle that interest in condemnation proceedings does not begin until there has been a taking.
After noting the several incidents asserted to constitute
a taking, we held that there was no interval between the

ALBRECHT v. UNITED STATES.
599

Opinion of the Court.

taking of the property there and payment for it. Thus
the question we have considered here was neither directly
involved, raised, nor given special consideration. A further incidental distinction between that case and this is
that in the Danforth case the contract did not anticipate
that the taking would precede payment.
Turning now to the right to interest under the contracts,
and apart from the contention regarding the Fifth Amendment, we find that the contracts have no provision for
payment of interest. No statute authorizes the payment
of interest in cases like this. In the absence of specific
contract or statutory provisions no interest runs against
the Government even though the Government's payment
for the contract purchases be delayed. See Smyth v.
United States, 302 U. S. 329, 353; UnitedStates v. ThayerWest Point Hotel Co., 329 U. S. 585, 588; United States v.
N. Y. Rayon Importing Co., 329 U. S. 654, 659-660.
There is some argument that interest should
be allowed
because the Declaration of Taking Act, 46 Stat. 1421, 40
U. S. C. ยง 258a, under which condemnation proceedings
were filed, authorizes payment of interest from the date
property is taken. Cf. United States v. Thayer-West
Point Hotel Co., supra,p. 588. This provision, however, is
no more than a statutory embodiment of the rule for determining constitutional "just compensation" in the absence
of a governing contract, and what we have already said
is equally applicable to the claim for interest under the
statute. It contains no specific provision for interest
on Government contracts of purchase. And here, while
the litigation was under the condemnation statute, the
petitioners' reliance on the purchase price provisions of
the contracts as to value took these claims for interest
outside the purview of the interest provisions of the Declaration of Taking Act, and left them to be governed by the
interest rules which would have applied had suit been

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Dissent.

329 U. S.

brought by petitioners to enforce the contract terms. Petitioners were barred from receiving interest in any proceeding for the reason that their contracts contained no
promise to pay interest.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dis-

senting.
"The stipulation merely had the effect of relieving the
Government from having to make proof as to what was
just compensation and of running the risk of having an
amount fixed which might be unsatisfactory." United
States v. Baugh, 149 F. 2d 190, 192. The landowners'
"right to have interest is found in the Constitution and
is neither found nor lost in the contract." Id., p. 193. The
justness of the claim for interest in these cases is underlined
by the fact that the land was taken over four years before
full payment was made. The United States renounced
these contracts and retained possession of the properties
by the Declaration of Taking Act, which by its terms, 46
Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C. ยง 258a, entitled the condemnee to
interest on the value from the date of taking except as to
sums paid into court. After the decision in Muschany v.
United States, 324 U. S. 49, the Government carried out
its condemnation suits and obtained titles to these properties by condemnation.
In these condemnation actions the agreed price, stated
in the contracts, became the "just compensation" of the
Declaration of Taking Act and by that Act interest was
due for such amount as had not been deposited with the
trial court when the declaration was filed. Interest for
the period between the declaration and the payment of
the value into the trial court should be allowed on the
amount by which the sum fixed in the final decree exceeded
the sum deposited with the declaration of tking.

