OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. RAYON IMPORTING CO.,
INC. (#2) ET AL.
NO. 94.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued January 8, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.
1. The Court of Claims is precluded by § 177 (a) of the Judicial Code
from awarding interest on claims for refunds of customs-duties, even
though the claims were based upon pre-existing judgments of the
Customs Court, and even assuming that the General Accounting
Office had unreasonably delayed the determination of ownership of
the funds. P. 658.
2. Apart from constitutional requirements, interest can be recovered
against the United States only if express consent to such a recovery
has been given by Congress. P. 658.
3. The consent of Congress to recovery of interest against the United
States may be given, as indicated by § 177 (a), only by (1) a specific provision for the payment of interest in a statute, or (2) an
express stipulation for the payment of interest in a contract duly
entered into by agents of the United States. P. 659.
4. Since there is no contractual stipulation involved in this case, and
since the appropriation statutes which cover the refunds here in
issue contain no provision for the recovery of interest, the traditional immunity of the United States, as codified in § 177 (a),
applies. P. 659.
5. That an award of interest on a claim against the United States
would be just or equitable does not empower the Court of Claims
to make it. Pp. 659-660.
6. Assuming that officials of the General Accounting Office unreasonably delayed determination of the ownership of the funds, this
could not operate as a consent on the part of the United States
to imposition of interest. P. 660.
7. The immunity established by § 177 (a) embraces claims arising out
of pre-existing judgments. P. 661.
8. The Act of March 3, 1875, as amended by the Act of March 3, 1933
(31 U. S. C. § 227), relates solely to cases where the Government asserts a set-off against a judgment creditor, and is inapplicable in
the circumstances here. P. 662.
*Together with No. 96, N. Y. Rayon Importing Co., Inc. (#)
v. United States, also on certiorari to the Court of Claims.

et al.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. RAYON CO.
654

655

Opinion of the Court.

9. Courts lack the power to award interest against the United States
on the basis of what they may consider to be sound policy. P. 663.
105 Ct. C 606, 64 F. Supp. 684, reversed in part.
From a judgment of the Court of Claims, which included
an award of interest, 105 Ct. Cl. 606, 64 F. Supp. 684, the
United States and the claimants sought review on crosspetitions for certiorari, which this Court granted. 329
U. S. 699. In No. 94, the judgment is reversed so far as it
includes interest. In No. 96, the writ of certiorari is
dismissed. P. 663.
Samuel D. Slade argued the cause for the United States.
With him 6n the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington,Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Stanley
M. Silverberg and PaulA. Sweeney.
Joseph M. Proskauer argued the cause for the N. Y.
Rayon Importing Co. et al. With him on the brief were
Eugene Eisenmann and Albert L. Solodar.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, announced by MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE.
This case involves another impact of § 177 (a) of the
Judicial Code 1 on the power of the Court of Claims to
award interest in a judgment against the United States.
The N. Y. Rayon Importing Co., Inc., (Rayon #1) and
the Nyrayco Importing & Converting Corporation (Nyrayco) were engaged in the importation of rayon yarn.
Between 1925 and 1929 they paid customs duties on such
importations which they claimed were erroneous. Prior
to March 1, 1930, they filed protests with the Collector
of Customs in accordance with applicable Tariff Act provisions, which resulted in the institution of actions in the
United States Customs Court.
128U.S.C. §284 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

On March 1, 1930, the N. Y. Rayon Importing Co., Inc.,
(Rayon #2) was incorporated for the purpose of acquiring
all the assets and assuming all the liabilities of Rayon #1,
Nyrayco and two other corporations in the rayon business.
As a part of this reorganization, Rayon #1 was dissolved
as of March 1, 1930, the New York Secretary of State
issuing a certificate of dissolution on that date.
Rayon #2 was voluntarily dissolved on January 9,1931,
in accordance with New York law. Nyrayco was dissolved
on December 16, 1935, by proclamation for nonpayment
of New York franchise taxes.
In 1937, long after these three corporations were dissolved, the Customs Court rendered decisions sustaining
the protests which Rayon #1 and Nyrayco had filed in
connection with the duties on rayon yarn imported between 1925 and 1929. A reliquidation of the customs
entries was directed. On reliquidation, the Collector of
Customs ascertained that a refund of $362,482.71 was
payable to Rayon #1 and $30,809.75 to Nyrayco. Checks
payable to those corporations were drawn, but since the
corporations had been dissolved the Collector caused the
checks to be transmitted to the General Accounting Office
."for lawful disposition." Representatives of Rayon #2
thereafter requested the General Accounting Office to deliver these checks to them; this request was denied and
the Comptroller General deposited the proceeds of the
checks in the Treasury in a trust fund entitled "Outstanding Liabilities 1938," pursuant to law.'
Several unsuccessful attempts were made by the representatives of the three dissolved corporations to obtain
the money in the trust fund. First, a consent decree was
entered in a declaratory judgment proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York adjudicating that,
2

Section 21 of the Act of June 26, 1934, c. 756, 48 Stat. 1235, 31
U. S. C. § 725t.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. RAYON CO.
654

657

Opinion of the Court.

as among the three dissolved corporations, Rayon #2 was
the owner of these customs refunds or the proceeds
thereof.3 But the General Accounting Office refused to
make payment when confronted with this decree. Thereafter, on February 26, 1943, attorneys for the three dissolved corporations suggested to the Comptroller General
that the money be released to Rayon #1 and Nyrayco
with the consent of Rayon #2, each corporation being
represented by its director or directors as trustees in liquidation. The Comptroller General rejected this proposal
and stated that payment would be permitted only upon
final judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction concluding the issue of ownership. He suggested that a suit
be brought for this purpose in the Court of Claims.
Rayon #2 and its liquidating directors and trustees
then brought this suit in the Court of Claims, claiming
that Rayon #2 continued to exist for the purpose of collecting and distributing its assets and that it was the owner
of the funds in issue. Rayon #1 and Nyrayco also
brought suits in the Court of Claims; they claimed the
amounts-of their respective refunds and alleged that ownership remained in them. After consideration of all three
claims," the court held that the rights of Rayon #1 and
Nyrayco had been taken over by Rayon #2 and its liquidating directors and trustees, who were thus entitled to
3This non-adversary proceeding only affected rights as between
Rayon #1 and Nyrayco, on the one hand, and Rayon #2 on the other.
It provided the Government no protection as against the other possible
claimants who were later impleaded and cited in the Court of Claims
action. See footnote 4.
4 The three suits were consolidated. In all three cases, the Societ6
Pour Nouveaux Placements de Capitaux was implea'ded as plaintiff.
It filed a disclaimer of interest and the Court of Claims dismissed "all
claims of interest" which it had. Several other persons and companies
were named by the United States as having possible claims, but none
of them asserted any claims or filed any intervening petitions; the
court dismissed "all claims of interest" as to them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

recover the amounts held in trust by the United States.
64 F. Supp. 684. As a part of its judgment, however,
the Court of Claims awarded 6% interest on the total
fund, such interest to run from April 19, 1941, the date of
an amendment to the New York Tax Law which retroactively clarified the capacity to sue of involuntarily
dissolved corporations.'
We issued a writ of certiorari in No. 94, on petition of
the United States, to review the action of the Court of
Claims in awarding such interest. At the same time, we
issued a writ of certiorari in No. 96 on a cross-petition of
Rayon #2 and its liquidating directors and trustees urging
that interest should have been allowed from the time of
the issuance of the refund checks in 1937 and 1938 rather
than from April 19,1941.
In our opinion, § 177 (a) of the Judicial Code prohibits
the award of any interest under the circumstances of this
case. Section 177 (a) provides that "No interest shall
be allowed on any claim up to the time of the rendition of
judgment by the Court of Claims, inless upon a contract
expressly stipulating for the payment of interest, . . ."
As we recently pointed out in United States v. ThayerWest Point Hotel Co., 329 U. S. 585, this provision codifies
the traditional rule regarding the immunity of the United
States from liability for interest on unpaid accounts or
claims. In other words, in the absence of constitutional
requirements, interest can be recovered against the United
3April 19, 1941, was the date when the Governor of New York
approved an amendment to § 203a of the New York Tax Law, removing all possible question whether corporations which had previously
and involuntarily been dissolved under the New York Tax Law for
non;payment of franchise taxes had the right to maintain suits. This
had relevance, however, only to Nyrayco. Rayon #1 and Rayon #2
were voluntarily dissolved in accordance with § 105 of the New York
Stock Corporation Law. Their right to maintain suit to collect their
assets was never questioned.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. RAYON CO.
654

659

Opinion of the Court.

States only if express consent to such a recovery has been
given by Congress. And Congress has indicated in § 177
(a) that its-consent can take only two forms: (1) a specific provision for the payment of interest in a statute; (2)
an express stipulation for the payment of interest in a contract duly entered into by agents of the United States.
Thus there can be no consent by implication or by use of
ambiguous language. Nor can an intent on the part of the
framers of a statute or contract to permit the recovery of
interest suffice where the intent is not translated into affirmative statutory or contractual terms. The consent
necessary to waive the traditional immunity must be express, and it must be strictly construed. Tillson v. United
States, 100 U. S. 43; United States v. Thayer-West Point.
Hotel Co., supra.
Tested by those standards, the award of interest in this
case cannot be sustained. There is obviously no contractual stipulation involved. And the appropriation statutes
which cover the refunds here in issue contain no provision
whatever for the recovery of interest. Act of May 14,
1937, 50 Stat. 137, 142; Act of June 25, 1938, 52 Stat. 1114,
1149. The traditional immunity of the United States, as
codified in § 177 (a), accordingly applies.
The Court of Claims, without making a reference to
§ 177 (a), sought to justify its award of interest on what it
.thought "would be right or just." It felt that the officials
of the General Accounting Office had delayed too long in
determining the ownership of the refund claims and that,
at the very least, they could have suggested at an earlier
date that a suit in the Court of Claims was necessary..
Inasmuch as it was known since the time of the Customs
Court's decisions in 1937 that the money did not belong
to the Government, the Court of Claims believed that it
was only fair that the true owners get interest from the
time when all defects and uncertainties were removed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

New York as to the capacity of dissolved corporations to
maintain suits or to be sued.'
But assuming that the equities of the situation all favor
the owners of the refund claims, the Court of Claims did
not thereby acquire power to carve out an implied exception to the plain words of § 177 (a). Had Congress desired to permit the recovery of interest in situations where
the Court of Claims felt it just or equitable, it could have
so provided. The absence of such a provision is conclusive evidence that the court lacks any power of that nature.
Indeed, any other conclusion would permit the Court of
Claims to supply the consent which only Congress can
give to the imposition of interest against the United
States.
By the same token, if we assume that the officials of
the General Accounting Office unreasonably delayed the
determination of ownership of the funds, such action or
inaction could not operate as a consent on the part of the
United States. Tillson v. United States, supra. It has
long been settled that officers of the United States possess
no power through their actions to waive an immunity of
the United States or to confer jurisdiction on a court in
the absence of some express provision by Congress. Carr
v. United States, 98 U. S. 433; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162
U. S. 255; Minnesota v. United States, 305 U. S. 382;
United States v. Shaw, 309 U. S. 495. The same rule
applies here. Only Congress can take the necessary steps
to waive the immunity of the United States from liability
6 Rayon #2 and its liquidating directors and truftees claim that

the date of April 19, 1941, has no relevance whatever to the claim of
Rayon #1. See footnote 5. And they claim that this date has no
proper relation to the Nyrayco claim since the Government made no
objection to Nyrayco's capacity to sue until several years after the
decisions of the Customs Court and after checks in its name had
been drawn by the Government.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. RAYON CO.
654

661

Opinikn of the Court.

for interest on unpaid claims.

Cf. Smyth v. United-States,

302 U. S. 329,353.
The owners of the refund claims, however, seek to avoid
the effect of § 177 (a) by urging that it applies only to

original claims which have not previously been reduced
to judgment.

This proceeding, it is said, is based upon

the pre-existing judgments of the Customs Court, thereby
precluding the application of § 177 (a).

We do not pause

here to inquire into the nature and effect of the decisions

rendered by the Customs Court or the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims to entertain suits based upon pre-existing
judgments. It is enough to note that the traditional rule
embodied in § 177 (a) is a complete one covering all types

of claims, including those arising out of pre-existing judgments. As we have seen, any exception to that rule must
be grounded upon an express provision in a statute or
contract.

It follows that any exception relating to pre-

existing judgments must be traced to specific language
in a contract or some other statute. Section 177 (a) by
itself warrants no such exception.
Cf. 31 U. S. C. § 226.
In this connection, the owners of the refund claims point

to the Act of March 3, 1875. as amended in 1933."

That

Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 481, as amended by the Act of
March 3, 1933, c. 212, Title II, § 13, 47 Stat. 1516, 31 U. S. C. § 227.
This provides:
"When any final judgment recovered against the United States duly
allowed by legal authority shall be presented to the Comptroller General of the United States for payment, and the plaintiff therein shall
be indebted to the United States in any manner, whether as principal
or surety, it shall be the duty of the Comptroller General of the United
States to withhold payment of an amount of such judgment equal
to the debt thus due to the United States; and if such plaintiff assents
to such set-off, and discharges his judgment or an amount thereof
equal to said debt, the Comptroller General of the United States shall
execute a discharge of the debt due from the plaintiff to the United
States. But if such plaintiff denies his indebtedness to the United
7

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Act directs the Comptroller General to withhold payment
from a judgment creditor of the United States, if such

creditor is indebted in turn to the United States, until
the indebtedness is satisfied. The Comptroller General
is to cause suit to be brought on the Government's cross
debt if the judgment creditor denies- the indebtedness.
The Act then expressly permits 6% interest to be paid
to the judgment creditor for the period of the withholding
if the Government fails to win its suit and to substantiate
its asserted set-off. Thus to that limited extent the Act
of March 3, 1875, marks an exception to the traditional
rule set forth in § 177 (a). See, for example, American
PotashCo. v. UnitedStates, 80 Ct. Cl. 160,8 F. Supp. 717;
Stewart & Co. v. United States, 71 Ct. Cl. 126.
But the inapplicability of that Act to the facts of this
case is at once apparent. The Act relates solely to the
situation where the Government asserts a set-off against
a judgment creditor. No such set-off is here asserted;
there is nothing more than a withholding of payment by
the Government until an ascertainment of ownership. In
fact, there is no real claim that the situation in the instant
case can be fitted within the terms of the Act of March 3,
1875. There is merely an argument that the policy of
States, or refuses to consent to the set-off, then the Comptroller General of the United States shall withhold payment of such further

amount of such judgment, as in his opinion will be sufficient to cover all

legal charges and costs in prosecuting the debt of the United States to
final judgment. And if such debt is not already in suit, it shall be the
duty of the Comptroller General of the United States to cause legal

proceedings to be immediately commenced to enforce the same, and
to cause the same to be prosecuted to final judgment with all reasonable
dispatch. And if in such action judgment shall be rendered against
the United States, or the amount recovered for debt and costs shall
be les than the amount so withheld as before provided, the balance
shall then be paid over to such plaintiff by such Comptroller General
of the United States with 6 per centum interest thereon for the time

it has been withheld from the plaintiff."

DE
654

MEERLEER v. MICHIGAN.
Statement of the Case.

that Act in providing for the payment of interest where
the withholding results from an erroneous belief in the
existence of a cross-indebtedness applies with equal force
where the withholding results from an attempt to determine ownership of a claim. But the immunity of the
United States from liability for interest is not to be waived
by policy arguments of this nature. Courts lack the power
to award interest against the United States on the basis
of what they think is or is not sound policy. We reiterate
that only express language. in a statute or contract can
justify the imposition of such interest. Such language is
absent in this instance.
We accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court of
Claims in No. 94 to the extent that it includes an award
of interest. And since it becomes unnecessary to consider the merits-of the cross-claims, the writ of certiorari
previously issued in No. 96 is dismissed.
So ordered.
DE MEERLEER v. MICHIGAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 140. Argued January 6, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.
On the same day that an information was filed in a state court charging him with murder, a 17-year-old defendant was arraigned, convicted on his plea of guilty, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
He had no counsel and none was offered or assigned; the court did
not apprise him of the consequences of his plea of guilty; no evidence was offered in his behalf and none of the State's witnesses were
cross-examined. Held that he was deprived of rights essential to a
fair hearing under the Federal Constitution. P. 665.
313 Mich. 548, 21 N. W. 2d 849, reversed.

A state court in which he had been convicted and
sentenced for murder denied petitioner's motion for leave
to file a delayed motion for a new trial. The state su-

