PARKER v" FLEMING.
520

Counsel for Parties.

have not commended themselves to the Court, but since
I am not alone in entertaining them it seemed to me that
they should be expressed.
PARKER ET AL. v. FLEMING, TEMPORARY
CONTROLS ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE EMERGENCY COURT OF APPEALS.

No. 80.

Argued December 18, 1946.-Decided January 20,1947.

Under rent regulations promulgated pursuant to the Emergency Price
Control Act, the Price Administrator issued an order granting to
landlords of residential properties special certificates authorizing
eviction proceedings. Held: The tenants were "subject to" the
order, within the meaning of § 203 (a) of the Act, and had a right
to file a protest with the Administrator; and were entitled, under
§ 204 (a) of the Act, to judicial review of the Administrator's dismissal of their protest. Pp. 533, 538.
154 F. 2d 830, reversed.

The Price Administrator dismissed petitioners' protest
against an order issued by him under rent regulations
promulgated pursuant to the Emergency Price Control
Act. The Emergency Court of Appeals dismissed petitioners' complaint. 154 F. 2d 830. This Court granted
certiorari. 328 U. S. 828. The Temporary Controls Administrator was substituted for the Price Administrator
as the respondent in this Court. Reversed, p. 538.
Alexander Pfeiffer argued the cause and filed a brief for

petitioners.
Carl A. Auerbach argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, John R. Benney, Richard H. Field, Harry H.
Schneiderand Bernard A. Stol.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Louis L. Tetelman, Gertrude Tetelman, Sylvia U. Siegel
and Harry Carroll filed a brief for the landlords, as amici
curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioners are tenants of a New York apartment house.

Their landlords applied for a certificate from the New
York Area Rent Director authorizing eviction proceedings in the State courts.'
Section 6 of the Rent Regula-

tions for New York City, issued by the Price Administrator under authority of § 2 of the Emergency Price
Control Act, 56 Stat. 23, 58 Stat. 632, 50 U. S. C. App.

Supp. V, § 902, prohibits landlords from instituting
such proceedings except under certain specific conditions
not here relevant,' or when a special certificate authorizing
eviction is issued by the Area Rent Director upon his finding, for example, that failure to authorize eviction would

impose "substantial hardship" upon the landlords
'The landlords here claimed to be purchasers of stock in a co-operative apartment corporation which stock holding entitled each of them
to possession of an apartment under a proprietary lease.
2
Section 6 (a) of the Rent Regulations for New York City Defense
Area, 8 Fed. Reg. 13914, as amended, provides that "no tenant shall be
removed from any housing accommodations, by action to evict ...
unless:" (1) The tenant has refused to renew his lease; (2) The tenant
has unreasonably refused the landlord access to the premises; (3) The
tenant has violated an obligation of tenancy or is committing a
nuisance; (4) Subtenants occupy the premises at the time of the
expiration of the prime tenant's lease; (5) The landlord "has an immediate compelling necessity to recover possession . . .for use and
occupancy as a dwelling for himself."
3 Section 6 (b) (3) "applies to the issuance of a certificate for occupancy of housing accommodations in a structure or premises owned or
leased by a cooperative corporation . . .by a purchaser of stock ...
in such cooperative who is entitled by reason of ownership of such
stock to possession of such housing accommodations by virtue of a proprietary lease or otherwise." The part of § 6 (b) (3) ii pertinent here
provides that where the co-operative was organized after February 17,
1945, or the effective date of the regulation, "no certificate shall be

PARKER v. FLEMING.
531

Opinion of the Court.

In this case the Area Rent Director refused to issue the
requested certificate after extensive hearings at which both
the landlords and the tenants presented evidence. Denial
was based on a finding that the landlords had wholly
failed to meet the regulation's conditions; that their request was part of a concerted plan to evade the Price
Control Act; and that a fraud hid been perpetrated
against the OPA. The Regional Rent Director affirmed
this ruling. On protest by the landlords, the Price Administrator reversed the ruling of the Area Director and
ordered that the certificate be issued. Petitioners thereupon filed a protest of their own with the Administrator.
When the Administrator dismissed this protest, they
sought relief in the Emergency Court of Appeals, complaining that the Administrator's order was "not in
accordance with law" and was "arbitrary and capricious."
On motion of the Administrator, that action was dismissed
on the ground that petitioners were not "subject to" the
Administrator's order and. therefore had no right to protest or have judicial review of the dismissal of their protest. Parker v. Porter, 154 F. 2d 830. We granted
certiorari because of the importance of the issue raised.
328 U. S. 828.
Section'204 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act
provides that "Any person who is aggrieved by the
denial . . . of his protest" against an order of the Price
Administrator issued under § 2 of the Act may, upon complaint to the Emergency Court of Appeals, secure a judicial
review of the Administrator's denial of such "Protest."
issued, unless on such date the cooperative was in the process of
organization and the Administrator finds that substantial hardship
would result from the failure to issue a certificate ..."
The original respondent here was Paul A. Porter, Price Administrator. The functions of his office have been assumed by Philip B.
Fleming, Temporary Controls Administrator, who has been substituted
as respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Under § 204 (b) thit Court can enjoin or set aside the
protested "order" in whole or in part only if it is satisfied
that the order "is not in accordance with law, or is arbitrary
or capricious." But § 203 (a) denies the right to make a
"protest" upon which review may be had to all but persons
who are "subject to any provision of such . . . order."
The Emergency Court of Appeals did not question that
the petitioners were "aggrieved" within the meaning
of § 204 (b) by the Administrator's special order authorizing their landlord to institute legal proceedings to evict
them from their apartments. See Federal Communications Commission v. Sanders Bros. Radio Station, 309 U. S.
470, 476, 477. Review was denied solely on the ground
that they were not "subject to" that order within the
meaning of § 203 (a).
In deciding a case concerning review of the Administrator's order granting a special exception to one of his general regulations, we are mindful that the legislative history
of the Price Control Act strongly indicates that judicial
review of the Administrator's general regulations and
orders was intended by Congress to be limited to relatively
few of the millions of people who would be more or less
affected by them. Congress did not provide for protest
and judicial review of general price orders by the great
mass of consumers because of an apprehension that this
might cause delay and difficulty in administering the Price
Control Act with the efficiency and expedition deemed
necessary to accomplish its broad purpose.' Only a few
categories of persons whom the Act affected and whose
protests, if reviewed, would not have these consequences,
were specifically permitted by the Act to protest and have
5 The congressional purpose in this regard has been summarized
in our previous decisions in Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414,
423, 431-433, 439, 441 and Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, 513,
520-521.

PARKER v. FLEMING.
531

: Opinion of the Court.

general price orders affecting them judicially reviewed.'
The Administrator and the courts have adhered to this
congressional policy. See e. g. Yakus v. United States, 321
U. S. 414; Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503.
Procedural Regulation No. 1 of the Office of Price
Administration, 7 Fed. Reg. 971, defined a person as "subject to" a general price regulation or order, and therefore
entitled to protest and obtain judicial review of it. only
when such regulation or order "prohibits or requires action by him." The Emergency Court of Appeals sustained the regulation which contained this definition.
Buka Coal Co. v. Brown, 133 F. 2d 949, 952. But in other
special situations not directly involving general pricefixing orders the words "subject to" have been construed
more broadly by the Administrator and the Emergency
Court of Appeals.
Revised Procedural Regulation No. 1, 7 F. R. 8961,
promulgated by the Administrator, provides that agricultural producers may protest an order which denies them
a subsidy granted by Congress as one of the mechanisms
of the price control program, the regulation stating that
such a producer "shall be considered to be subject to a maximum price regulation." And in Illinois Packing Co. v.
Snyder, 151 F. 2d 337, the Emergency Court of Appeals
held that meat packets, denied such a subsidy under
regulations of the Defense Supplies Corporation promulgated under the same authority on which Office of Price
Administration orders were based, were subject to and
could protest against such regulations. The court there
said that:
"If anybody could be 'subject to' a provision of the
subsidy regulation, complainant certainly would meet
6 Section 4 (a) of the Act lists the classes of persons to be punished
for disobedience of the provisions of a regulation or order and therefore ipso facto "subject to" it as sellers of commodities, buyers of
commodities in the course of business and landlords.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

this requirement, since it claims to be excluded from
the subsidy by a discriminatory and unlawful condition inserted in the subsidy regulation by Amendment
No. 2. Since section 204 (d) confers upon this court
'jurisdiction to determine the validity of any regulation or order issued under section 2,' and since Amendment No. 2 is such a regulation or order, it is inadmissible to put upon the phrase 'any person subject to any
provision' of a regulation under section 2 an interpretation which would make it impossible for anyone to
invoke our jurisdiction in this type of case, especially
one who, like complainant, is most immediately and
directly prejudiced by the challenged provision of the
subsidy regulation." Illinois Packing Co. v. Snyder,
supra, at 338-339.
Thus it appears that the Administrator and the Emergency Court of Appeals have determined that the question
of whether a person is "subject to" an order is dependent to
some extent upon whether the order immediately, substantially and adversely affects him, as well as whether the
order requires or prohibits action by him. Under these
standards we think the tenants here were "subject to"
the order.
Whether the regulations gave the tenants a "vested
right" to remain in possession is not decisive of their right
to protest or obtain judicial review. However that may
be, general regulations prohibited these landlords from
evicting the tenants unless the Administrator granted a
certificate. The Emergency Price Control Act was intended in part to prevent excessive rents in the public
interest, and the very anti-eviction regulations under
Among other provisions showing that such was the purpose of
the Act, § 2 (d) provides in part that the Administrator may promulgate regulations or orders to "prohibit speculative or manipulative
practices

. . .

or renting or leasing practices (including practices

PARKER v. FLEMING.
531

Opinion of the Court.

which the Administrator granted the eviction certificate
here were specifically designed to prevent manipulative
renting practices which would result in excessive rents.'
Those regulations have been held valid by the Emergency
Court of Appeals, Taylor v. Brown, 137 F. 2d 654, 662-663,
and their validity is not here challenged. If these tenants
cannot "protest" this order issued under these regulations,
no one can; and if they cannot challenge it in the Emerrelating to recovery of the possession) . . .which in his judgment are
equivalent to or are likely to result in price or rent increases
58 Stat. 634.
8 The landlords here claimed to be recent purchasers of stock in a
cooperative ownership arrangement. Regulation 6 (b), here involved,
was promulgated, according to the Administrator, for the following,
among other, stated reason/s:
"In recent months the problem of evictions and potential evictions
in connection with the sale of stock in cooperative housing corporations
has reached serious proportions. Apartment house and other multiple-unit premises are being sold to cooperative corporations. These
corporations in turn sell stock in the corporation which entitles the
purchaser to a 4proprietary lease' of a dwelling unit in the structure.
In selling stock in the cooperative, tenants usually are first approached.
They are under heavy pressure to purchase stock because the alternative is likely to be eviction in favor of the ultimate purchaser of the
stock. If the stock is not purchased by a tenant, it is then sold to
another person who obtains a proprietary lease of the tenant's dwelling
unit and seeks possession of that unit for personal occupancy.
"In the past cooperative housing corporations were virtually unknown in most defense-rental areas. Since rent control there has
been a tendency to make more frequent use of the device and there
is every indication that this will accelerate.
During recent months, as the housing shortage has become
more acute, the cooperative corporations or other owners of this stock
have begun to sell it to purchasers who become entitled to proprietary
leases." Statement of Reasons Accompanying Amendment 17 to the
Rent Regulation for Housing for the New York City Defense-Rental
Area.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

gency Court of Appeals, they cannot effectively challenge
it at all.
We cannot say that tenants who are about to be evicted
from their apartments on account of the order are not
"subject to" it. We are persuaded that these tenants
would be required to act by the issuance of the certificate.
They would either have to move themselves and their possessions to another abode, which might be difficult or
impossible to obtain, or undertake defense of eviction proceedings in the State courts, which proceedings, but for the
certificate, would have been barred by the regulation promulgated under the Act. For the same reason, it seems
apparent that they would be immediately, substantially,
and adversely affected by the order.
This situation is altogether different, in terms of administrative complications and the impact of the order on the
individual, from one in which a consumer member of the.
public wishes to attack a general price-fixing regulation
which will require him to pay higher prices, or even a tenant to pay higher rent. For this reason, the legislative
history relied on by the Administrator, thought to indicate
a purpose not to make such general price-fixing orders open
to widespread challenge, has no relevancy here. While the
scope of judicial review authorized by the Act is a limited
one, Illinois Packing Co. v. Snyder, supra at 339, we think
that these tenants were entitled to have their protest considered by the Administrator and that the Emergency
Court of Appeals has jurisdiction of their complaint.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

MR. JUSTICE BURTON

dissent.

and

