394

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

329 U. S.

EDWARD KATZINGER CO. v. CHICAGO METALLIC MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 70 and 71.

Argued November 14, 15, 1946.-Decided January 6,
1947.

A patent-licensing agreement provided that the licensee should sell
the licensed products at prices fixed by the licensor and should be
estopped from denying the validity of the patent. The products
were sold widely in interstate commerce. A controversy having
arisen as to the coverage of certain products by the patent, the
licensing agreement was terminated, tje licensee sued for a declaratory judgment declaring the patent invalid, and the licensor counterclaimed for unpaid royalties or damages for infringement. The
patent was held invalid. Held:
1. In these circumstances, the licensee is not estopped to challenge
the validity of the patent. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric
Co., 317 U. S. 173; Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalum MIg. Co., 326 U. S.
249. Pp. 398-401.
2. The licensee's obligations to pay royalties and to sell at prices
fixed by the licensor are not severable. P. 401.
3. Since the royalties here claimed accrued, if they accrued at
all, prior to the time the licensing agreement terminated, the fact
of subsequent termination does not free the promise to pay royalties
from the taint of the price-fixing provision. P. 401.
4. The alleged fact that the licensee suggested the price-fixing
provision in the licensing agreement does not estop him from challenging its validity as being in violation of the anti-trust laws.
P. 401.
5. The specific contract not to challenge the validity of the patent
cannot override congressional policy against contracts in restraint
of interstate trade any more than can an implied estoppel. P. 402.
153 F. 2d 149, affirmed.

. In a suit by a licensee for a declaratory judgment
declaring a patent invalid, the licensor counterclaimed for unpaid royalties or damages for infringement. The District

KATZINGER CO. v. CHICAGO MFG. CO. 395
394

Opinion of the Court.

Court held that the licensee was estopped to challenge
the validity of the patent. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed and remanded to the District Court to pass on
the validity of the patent. 139 F. 2d 291. The District
Court held the patent invalid. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 153 F. 2d 149. This Court granted
certiorari.

328 U. S. 826.

Affirmed, p. 402.

Charles J. Merriam argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Stanley Hoods.
Max W. Zabel argued the cause for respondent.

With

him on the brief was EphraimBanning.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Charles H. Weston and Philip

Marcus filed a brief for the United States, as amicus
curiae.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question here is whether the defendant, in a suit
to recover royalties only under a terminated patent license
agreement containing price-fixing provisions, can challenge the validity of the patent despite a covenant in the
license contract that he would not do so.
The petitioner, Edward Katzinger Company, and the
respondent, Chicago Metallic Mfg. Company, make and
sell tin baking pans. The undenied testimony was that
Metallic sold its pans over a large part of the United
States, probably in every state in the country. Katzinger
became owner of Jackson patent No. 2,077,757 on a certain
type of pan.1 Metallic, accused of infringing, entered into
a licensing contract under which, upon payment of stipulated royalties, it was authorized to manufacture and sell
pans made in accordance with the claimed invention.
1 Other

patents, originally in suit, are not involved in this case.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

2
Sections 3 and 11 of the license contract, set out below,
provided that Metallic, like all other licensees, should sell
these pans at prices fixed by Katzinger. Royalties were to
be computed on the basis of "net sales" of articles "made
in accordance with any of the patents or applications
under this license." Section 14 provided that if Metallic
elected to terminate the contract, without ceasing to manufacture the pans, Metallic should "be estopped from

denying the validity of said patent . . . and be deemed
2 3. Licensor agrees that while this agreement remains in force
and effect, if it permits others under license or other agreement to
manufacture or sell articles or devices embodying or made in accordance with any of the patents or applications hereinbefore described,
ul)on terms more favorable than those granted the Licensee hereunder, the Licensor shall immediately notify the Licensee hereunder
and grant the same terms to the Licensee."

"11. Licensor reserves the right to establish a minimum sales price
for the articles or products which Licensee is licensed to manufacture
hereunder and to modify or change such minimum prices from time
to time during the life of this agreement. The Licensor, as well as
Licensee and any other person, persons or corporation licensed by
Licensor, shall not, with the consent of Licensor, sell or offer for sale,
or otherwise dispose of any of the licensed devices or products below
said minimum sales price, or on more favorable terms of sale than
those set forth in any such scale of prices so established by Licensor.
Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this license
agreement, Licensee has received from Licensor a schedule of minimum
prices, effective as of the date hereof, below which none of the products
or devices made under this license shall be sold. Licensor reserves
the right, upon thirty (30) days' notice in writing given by Licensor
to Licensee, to change said minimum prices from time to time during
the life hereof. On such articles or devices made and sold by Licensee
as to which Licensor shall have failed or neglected to establish a
minimum sales price, the royalty shall likewise be computed on the
net sales price received by Licensee from its customers. Licensee or
its duly authorized representatives shall have access from time to
time to the books of account of Licensor during ordinary business
hours for the purpose of determining whether or not Licensor has
complied with the provisions of this paragraph."

KATZINGER CO. v. CHICAGO MFG. CO. 397
394

Opinion of the Court.

an infringer thereof." Metallic maintained the patenteefixed prices and paid royalties on pans deemed by it to
be covered by the patent.'
A controversy later arose as to whether certain types of
pans manufactured by Metallic were covered. Declining
to pay royalties on this type of pan, Metallic gave notice
of termination of the contract and initiated this action for
a declaratory judgment praying that the court declare that
the patent was invalid for want of invention and that the
controversial pans were not covered by, and did not infringe, any of Katzinger's patents. Katzinger in an
answer and counterclaim alleged, so far as material here,
that the patent covered all the Metallic pans, that Metallic
was estopped to challenge validity of the patent by ยง 14 of
the contract, and that Metallic either owed royalties or was
liable for infringement. It prayed, among other things, for
an accounting for unpaid royalties'which were to be computed at 2.5% to 5% of the sales price which was governed
by the minimum price list attached to the license.' In the
alternative it prayed that Metallic be required to account
for profits and damages as an infringer. The District
Court held .that Metallic was estopped to challenge the
validity of the patents, and, treating them as valid, found
that the patent claims did cover all the pans. Accord3Of course it is the unlawful agreement, whether it is executed or
not, which violates the anti-trust laws. United States v. SoconyVacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150; American Tobacco Co. v. United
States, 328 U. S. 781, 809. In the cases here the parties stipulated
that "in pursuance of this license agreement Metallic did, for a peied
of two years more or less, exercise the license therein given by making
certain tinware products," maintaining "minimum prices and paying
therefor the applicable royalties." While the court originally made
findings to the effect that Metallic did not attempt to carry out the
price-fixing agreement and was willing to have it removed from the
contract, these findings were expressly vacated on remand.
4 The schedule of minimum prices incorporated by reference into the
license agreement was set out as an exhibit in Katzinger's counterclaim.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ingly, it ordered an accounting to determine royalties due
for the period prior to termination of the license contract,
and for infringement damages thereafter.
Relying upon our decision in Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173, the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. It held that the agreement to fix prices
was inseparably connected with the agreement to pay royalties; that if the patent was invalid, the price-fixing provision violated the federal anti-trust laws; that conflict
of the price-fixing provision with the anti-trust laws would
make the agreement to pay royalties unenforceable; and
that the District Court had erred in barring Metallic
from challenging the patent's validity as a predicate to
establishing the illegality and consequent unenforceability
of the royalty covenant. The cause was remanded to the
District Court to pass upon validity of the patent. 139 F.
2d 291. That Court then held the patent invalid and rendered judgment for Metallic. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 153 F. 2d 149. We granted certiorari
because of a conflicting decision in Westinghouse Electric
& Mfg. Co. v. MacGregor, 350 Pa. 333, 38 A. 2d 244. The
Pennsylvania Supreme Court in the MacGregorcase ruled
that price-fixing provisions in a license agreement such as
the one before us were severable from the agreement to
pay royalties, and read our Sola case as though it were a
holding that a licensee was estopped to challenge a patent's validity except in cases where a licensor sought
affirmative relief to enforce price-fixing provisions of a
license.
We need not consider whether under the ruling of
Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 87-91, these
price-fixing provisions would be lawful if the patent were
valid. The question here is entirely different. Nor need
we, as it has been suggested, discuss this Court's opinions
in Kinsman v. Parkhurst, 18 How. 289, and United States

KATZINGER CO. v. CHICAGO MFG. CO. 399
394

Opinion of the Court.

v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310, which were concerned
with particular circumstances there involved. In the Sola
case we declined to examine these prior decisions, holding
that neither of them was relevant because "no price-fixing
stipulation was involved in the license contract" at issue in
those cases. So here, it would be inappropriate to re-examine those decisions now. Under what other circumstances a federal rule of estoppel might be applied is a
question which can be met when particular facts present it.
The Sola case reaffirmed past decisions holding that
price-fixing agreements such as those here involved are
unenforceable because of violations of the Sherman Act
save as they may be within the protection of a lawful
patent. That case held further that local rules of estoppel
cannot screen such agreements from court scrutiny, and
that federal courts must, in the public interest, keep the
way open for the challenge of patents which are utilized
for price-fixing of interstate goods. It is true that the
licensor there not only sought a recovery of royalties, but
prayed generally for an injunction to require observance
of all the provisions of the license agreement, one of which
provisions was for price-fixing. But that the chief object
of that suit was to recover royalties and not to require observance of the price-fixing provisions is indicated by the
fact that, while breaches of other covenants of the contract
were alleged in the petition, and specific prayers for their
observance were included, there was no charge that the
licensee had breached the price-fixing covenant and there
was no specific prayer to require observance of it. Nor
did this Court indicate that the patent would have
been immune from challenge had the licensor sued for
royalties only. This would have permitted a licensor to
be protected on an illegal contract merely because he
chose one remedy rather than another on the same sub-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

stantive issue. If we had intended to draw such a fine
line, it is hard to believe that such a careful writer as the
late Chief Justice would have failed to indicate in the
opinion or the mandate of the Court in the Sola case that
on remand the trial court, while permitting challenge
of the patent to defeat the injunction, must treat the
price-fixing provision as severable, and forbid challenge
for the purpose of defeating the claim for recovery of
royalties." That decision, instead of resting on such a
narrow procedural base, was firmly grounded upon the
broad public interest in freeing our competitive economy
from the trade restraints which might be imposed by
price-fixing agreements stemming from narrow or invalid
patents. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., supra
at 177.
In Scott PaperCo. v. Marcalus Co., 326 U. S. 249, it was
held that even an assignor who had sold a patent issued to
itself was free to challenge the validity of the patent and
thereby defeat an action for infringement by showing that
the invention had been described in an expired patent. In
thus emphasizing the necessity of protecting our competitive economy by keeping open the way for interested persons to challenge the validity of patents which might be
shown to be invalid, the Court was but stating an often
5The cases cited in the Sola decision rejected contentions that the
offending price-fixing provisions should be considered severable from
the rest of the contract and therefore enforceable. See e. g., Bement
v. National Harrow Co.. 186 U. S. 70, 88; Continental Wall PaperCo.
v. Louis Voight & Sons Co., 212 V. S. 27, 230,266.
That this Court's attention was called in the Sola case to this
question is shown by examination of the brief filed here for Sola which
cited decisions of this Court to support a contention that the provisions for royalties and price-fixing were inseparable and that royalties
must be denied if the price-fixing provision were illegal. Morton Salt
Co. v. Suppiger Co.. 314 U. S. 488; Loud v. Pomona Land & 'Vater
Co., 153 U. S. 564, 576; Williams v. Bank of the United States,
2 Pet. 96.

KATZINGER CO. v. CHICAGO MFG. CO.
394

401

Opinion of the Court.

expressed policy that "It is the public interest which is
dominant in the patent system," Mercoid Corp. v. MidContinent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661, 665, and that
the right to challenge "is not only a private right to the
individual, but it is founded on public policy which is promoted by his making the defence, and contravened by his
refusal to make it." Pope Mfg. Co. v. Gormully, 144 U. S.
224, 235.0
If the question of severability, urged by the petitioner
here, were a new one, we should again arrive at the conclusion we reached in the Sola case. Metallic's obligation
to pay royalties and its agreement to sell at prices fixed
by Katzinger constituted an integrated consideration for
the license grant. Consequently, when one part of the
consideration is unenforceable because in violation of law,
its integrated companion must go with it. See Hazelton v.
Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71, 78. Moreover, solicitude for
the interest of the public fostered by freedom from invalid
patents and from restraints of trade, which has been manifest by the line of decisions of which the Scott Paper Co.
and Sola cases are two of the latest examples, requires that
there should be no departure from the guiding principles
they announced.
The royalties here claimed accrued, if they accrued at
all, prior to the time the license agreement terminated.
Consequently, the fact of subsequent termination does not
free the promise to pay royalties from the taint of the
price-fixing provision. Nor does the fact, if it be a fact,
that Metallic itself suggested the price-fixing provision,
bar Metallic's challenge to the patent's validity. For
the contract was still illegal, whoever suggested it, so that
there is no lesz reason for leaving the way open to challenge the patent as a service to the public interest than if
Katzinger had suggested price-fixing. Finally, Metallic's
6 See Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., supra at 492.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

specific contract not to challenge the validity of Katzinger's patent can no more override congressional policy

than can an implied estoppel.

See Scott Paper Co. v.

MarcalusMfg. Co., supra, at 257 and cases cited.

Affirmed.
[For dissenting opinion of, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
concurred in by MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
and MR. JUSTICE BURTON, in this case and in MacGregor
v. Westinghouse Mfg. Co., see post, p. 408.]
MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC &
MANUFACTURING CO.
ON REHEARING.

No. 28.

Reargued November 14, 1946.-Decided January 6, 194L

A patent-licensing agreement authorized the licensee to make, use
and sell brazing solder containing copper and phosphorus and
required him to pay royalties and not to sell the product at prices
lower than those charged by the licensor. After paying royalties
on this product and also on solders containing tin or silver in
addition to copper and phosphorus, the licensee obtained patents
on the solders containing tin and silver and refused to pay royalties
on them. The licensor sued in a state court for royalties. In his
answer, the licensee challenged the validity and coverage of the
licensor's patent, the validity of the price-fixing agreement and
the validity of the licensor's exercise of its monopoly. He counterclaimed for refund of the royalties paid and for damages on account
of the-restraint imposed on him by the agreement. Held:
1. In these circumstances, the licensee was not estopped to challenge the validity of the licensor's patent. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173; Scott PaperCo. v. Marcalus Mfg.
Co., 326 U. S. 249; Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Co., ante,
p. 3 94 . P. 407.
2. The covenant to pay royalties was not severable from the
price-fixing covenant. Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Co., ante,
p.394. P.407.

