MORRIS v. JONES.
539

Syllabus.

No statute or previous Army Regulation had provided
for the extraordinary situation which developed on Armistice Day and which made it necessary for the President to
halt the processing of these thousands of men and direct
that they return to their homes. When this new situation
arose, it was certainly within the province of the War
Department to provide for its solution by, among other
things, issuing to those returned home an appropriate form
of certificate, whether of the honorable discharge variety,
a "discharge from draft," or some special form designed
specifically for the occasion. Respondent was inducted
into the Army and was discharged before he reached a
mobilization camp for final processing. His discharge
adequately indicates these facts. The law demands no
more.
Reversed.
MORRIS v. JONES, DIRECTOR OF INSURANCE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 62.

Argued December 9, 10, 1946.-Decided January 20, 1947.

An unincorporated association was authorized by Illinois to transact
an insurance business there and in other States. It qualified to do
business in Missouri. Petitioner sued the association in a Missouri
court. Subsequently, but before judgment was obtained in Missouri, an Illinois court appointed a liquidator for the association and
issued an order staying suits against it. All assets of the association
vested in the liquidator. With notice of the stay order, petitioner
continued to prosecute the MissoUri suit; but counsel for the association withdrew and did not defend it. Petitioner obtained a
judgment against the association in 'Missouri and filed a copy as
proof of his claim in the Illinois proceedings. An order disallowing
the claim was sustained by the Supreme Court of Illinois. An
appeal was taken to this Court. Held:
1. The question whether full faith and credit should have been
given the Missouri judgment does not present a ground for appeal;
but certiorari is granted under Judicial Code § 237 (c). P. 547.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

2. Under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution
(Art. IV, § 1) and R. S. § 905, the nature and amount of petitioner's
claim was conclusively determined by the Missouri judgment and
may not be relitigated in the Illinois proceedings, it not appearing
that the Missouri court lacked jurisdiction over either the parties
or the subject matter. Pp. 550-554.
3. The establishment of the existence and amount of a claim
against the debtor in no way disturbs the possession of the liquidation court, in no way affects title to the property, and does not
necessarily involve a determination of what priority the claim should

have. Pp. 549, 554.
391 Ill. 492, 63 N. E. 2d 479, reversed.

Petitioner obtained a judgment in Missouri against an
Illinois association for which a liquidator had been appointed in Illinois after the suit was brought and filed a
copy as proof of his claim in the Illinois proceedings. The
Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed an order disallowing
the claim. 391 Ill. 492, 63 N. E. 2d 479. An appeal to
this Court was treated as a petition for certiorari and certiorari was granted under Judicial Code § 237 (c).
Reversed, p. 554.
J. L. London and Ford W. Thompson argued the cause
and filed a brief for petitioner.
Ferre C. Watkins argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Charles F. Meyers, Otis F.
Glenn and Raymond G. Real.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents a substantial question under the
Full Faith and Credit Clause (Art. IV, § 1) of the
Constitution.
.Chicago Lloyds, an unincorporated association, was
authorized by Illinois to transact an insurance business in
Illinois and other states. It qualified to do business in

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri. In 1934 petitioner sued Chicago Lloyds in a
Missouri court for malicious prosecution and false arrest.
In 1938, before judgment was obtained in Missouri, respondent's predecessor was appointed by an Illinois court
as statutory liquidator for Chicago Lloyds. The Illinois
court fixed a time for the filing of claims against Chicago
Lloyds and issued an order staying suits against it. Petitioner had notice of the stay order but nevertheless continued to prosecute the Missouri suit. At the instance of
the liquidator, however, counsel for Chicago Lloyds withdrew from the suit and did not defend it, stating to the
Missouri court that the Illinois liquidation proceedings
had vested all the property of Chicago Lloyds in the
liquidator. Thereafter petitioner obtained a judgment
in the Missouri court and filed an exemplified copy of it
as proof of his claim in the Illinois proceedings. An
order disallowing the claim was sustained by the Illinois
Supreme Court against the contention that its allowance
was required by the Full Faith and Credit Clause. 391
Ill. 492, 63 N. E. 2d 479.
The case was brought here by appeal. We postponed
the question of jurisdiction to the merits. Under the
rule of Roche v. McDonald, 275 U1.S. 449, 450, the question whether full faith and credit should have been given
the Missouri judgment does not present a ground for
appeal. But treating the jurisdictional statement as a
petition for certiorari (Judicial Code § 237 (c), 28 U. S. C.
§ 344 (c)), that writ is granted; and we come to the merits
of the controversy.
The Full Faith and Credit Clause and the statute which
implements it (R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. § 687) require the
judgments of the courts of one State to be given the same
faith and credit in another State as they have by law
or usage in the courts of the State rendering them. The
Illinois Supreme Court concluded that compliance with
that mandate required that precedence be given to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Illinois decree appointing the statutory liquidator. It
held that title to all the property of Chicago Lloyds, wherever located, vested in the liquidator; that the liquidator
was entitled to keep and retain possession of the property
to the exclusion of the process of any other court; that
although Missouri might give priority to Missouri creditors in the property of the debtor located there,1 Clark v.
Williard, 292 U. S. 112, the Missouri judgment could have
no priority as respects Illinois assets; that if a liquidator
had been appointed in Missouri, petitioner could not have
obtained his judgment, orif he had obtained it, he could
not have enforced it against the property in the hands of
the Missouri liquidator, see McDonald v. Pacific States
Life Ins. Co., 344 Mo. 1, 124 S. W. 2d 1157; and that to disallow the judgment in the Illinois proceedings is, therefore,
to give it the same effect that it would have had under the
same circumstances in Missouri.
First. We can put to one side, as irrelevant to the problem at hand, several argument6 which have been pressed
upon us. We are not dealing here with any question of
priority of claims against the property of the debtor. For
in this proceeding petitioner is not seeking, nor is respondent denying him, anything other than the right to prove
his claim in judgment form. No question of parity of
treatment of creditors, or the lack thereof (see Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 239), is in issue. Nor is there involved in this case any challenge to the Illinois rule, which
follows Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. S. 222, that title to all the
property of Chicago Lloyds, wherever located, vested in
the liquidator. Nor do we have here a challenge to the
possession of the liquidator either through an attempt to
obtain a lien on the property or otherwise. As pointed out
in Riehle v. Margolies,279 U. S. 218, 224, the distribution
"It does not appear that there is any property of the debtor in
Missouri; nor was a liquidator appointed in Missouri.

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

of assets of a debtor among creditors ordinarily has a "twofold aspect." It deals "directly with the property" when
it fixes the time and manner of distribution. No one can
obtain part of the assets or enforce a right to specific property in the possession of the liquidation court except upon
application to it. But proof and allowance of claims are
matters distinct from distribution. They do not "deal
directly with any of the property." "The latter function,
which is spoken of as the liquidation of a claim, is strictly
a proceeding in personam." Id., p. 224. The establishment of the existence and amount of a claim against the
debtor in no way disturbs the possession of the liquidation
court, in no way affects title to the property, and does not
necessarily involve a determination of what priority the
claim should have. And see Chicago Title & T. Co. v. Fox
Theatres Corp., 69 F. 2d 60.
One line of cases holds that where a statutory liquidator
or receiver is appointed, the court taking jurisdiction of
the property draws unto itself exclusive control over the
proof of all claims. 2 But the notion that such control
over the proof of claims is necessary for the protection of
the exclusive jurisdiction of the court over the property
is a mistaken one. As Justice Beach of the Supreme Court
' Attorney General v. Supreme Council, 196 Mass. 151,159, 81 N. E.
966 (receivership); Hackett v. Supreme Council, 206 Mass. 139, 142,

92 N. E. 133 (receivership),
The Illinois rule announced in the instant case is likewise applicable
in receivership proceedings. Evans v. Illinois Surety Co., 319 Ill.
105, 149 N. E. 802.
Contra: Pringle v. Woolworth, 90 N. Y. 502 (receivership). The
federal receivership rule permits continuance of suits in other courts
at least where they were pending at the time of the appointment of
the receiver. Riehle v. Margolie., supra. And see Chicago Title & T.
Co. v. Fox Theatres Corp., supra, and Dickinson v. Universal Service
Stations, 100 F. 2d 753, 757, applying the Riehle ruling to a suit started
in a state court after the receivership. For collection of cases see
96 A. L. R. 485.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

of Errors of Connecticut aptly said, "The question is
simply one of the admissibility and effect of evidence; and
the obligation to receive a judgment in evidence is no more
derogatory to the jurisdiction in rem than the obligation
to receive in evidence a promissory note or other adimissible evidence of debt." Beach, Judgment Claims in
Receivership Proceedings, 30 Yale L. Journ. 674, 680.
Moreover, we do not have here a situation like that involved in Pendleton v. Russell, 144 U. S. 640, where it was
sought to prove in a New York receivership of a dissolved
corporation a judgment obtained in Tennessee after dissolution. The proof was disallowed, dissolution having
operated, like death, as an abatement of the suit. No
such infirmity appears to be present in the Missouri judgment; and the Illinois Supreme Court did not hold that the
appointment of a liquidator for Chicago Lloyds operated
as an abatement of the suit. Nor is it sought on any
other ground to bring the Missouri judgment within the
exception on which Williams v. North Carolina,325 U. S.
226, rests, by challenging the jurisdiction of the Missouri
court over either the parties or the subject matter. Nor
is there any lack of privity between Chicago Lloyds
and the Illinois liquidator. Cf. Ingersoll v. Coram, 211
U. S.335, 362-364. There is no difference in the cause of
action, cf. United States v. CaliforniaBridge Co., 245 U. S.
337, whether Chicago Lloyds or the liquidator is sued. The
Missouri judgment represents a liability for acts committed by Chicago Lloyds, not for those of the liquidator. The
claims for which the Illinois assets are being administered
are claims against Chicago Lloyds. The Missouri judgment represents one of them. There is no more reason
for discharging a liquidator from the responsibility for
defending pending actions than there is for relieving a
receiver of that task. Riehle v. Margolies, supra.
Second. "A judgment of a court having jurisdiction of
the parties and of the subject matter operates as res judi-

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

cata, in the absence of fraud or collusion, even if obtained
upon a default." Riehle v. Margolies, supra,p. 225. Such

a judgment obtained in a sister State is, with exceptions
not relevant here, see Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S.

287, 294-295, entitled to full faith and credit in another
State, though the underlying claim would not be enforced
in the State of the forum. Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall.
290; Fauntleroyv. Lum 210 U. S.230; Roche v. McDonald, supra; Titus v. Wallick, 306 D. S. 282, 291. It is

no more important that the suit on this underlying claim
could not have been maintained in Illinois after the liquidator had been appointed than the fact that a statute of
limitations of the State of the forum might have barred it.
See Christmas v. Russell, supra; Roche v. McDonald,

supra. And the Missouri judgment may not be defeated
by virtue of the fact that under other circumstances petitioner might not have been able to obtain it in Missouri
or to have received any benefit from it there, as, for example, if a liquidator had been appointed for the debtor
in Missouri prior to judgment. The full faith and credit
to which a judgment is entitled is the credit which it
has in the State from which it is taken, not the credit
that under other circumstances and conditions it might
have had. Moreover, the question whether a judgment
is entitled to full faith and credit does not depend on the
presence of reciprocal engagements between the States.
Under Missouri law petitioner's judgment was a final
determination of the nature and amount of his claim.
See Pitts v. Fugate, 41 Mo. 405; Central Trust Co. v.
D'Arcy, 238 Mo. 676, 142 S.W. 294; State ex rel. Robb v.
Shain, 347 Mo. 928, 149 S.W. 2d 812. That determina-

tion is final and conclusive in all courts. "Because
there is a full faith and credit clause a defendant may
not a second time challenge the validity of the plaintiff's right which has ripened into a judgment." Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S. 430, 439-440.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

For the Full Faith and Credit Clause established "throughout the federal system the salutary principle of the common law that a litigation once pursued to judgment shall
be as conclusive of the rights of the parties in every other
court as in that where the judgment was rendered." Id.,
p. 439. And see Riley v. New York Trust Co., 315 U. S.
343, 348-349. The nature and amount of petitioner's
claim may not, therefore, be challenged or retried in the
Illinois proceedings.
As to respondent's contention that the Illinois decree, of
which petitioner had notiee, should have been given full
faith and credit by the Missouri court, only a word need
be said. Roche v. McDonald, supra, pp. 454-455, makes
plain that the place to raise that defense was in the Missouri proceedings.. And see Treinies v. Sunshine Mining
Co., 308 U. S. 66, 77. And whatever might have been the
ruling on the question, the rights of the parties could have
been preserved by a resort to this Court, which is the
final arbiter of questions arising under the Full Faith and
Credit Clause. Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S. 287,
302. In any event, the Missouri judgment is res judicata
as to the nature and amount of petitioner's claim as against
all defenses which could have been raised. Roche v.
McDonald, supra; Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296
U. S. 268, 275; Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, supra,
p. 438.
It is finally suggested that since the Federal Bankruptcy
Act provides for exclusive adjudication of claims by the
bankruptcy court 8 and excepts insurance companies from
the Act (§ 4, 52 Stat. 840, 845, 11 U. S. C. § 22; Vallely v.
NorthernFire & Marine Ins. Co., 254 U. S. 348), the state
liquidators of insolvent insurance companies should have
the same control over the determination of claims as the
8

See In re ParamountPubliz Corp., 85 F. 2d 42, and cases collected
in 106 A. L. R. pp. 1121 et seq. Cf. Robinson v. Trustees, 318 Mass.

121, 60 N. E. 2d 593; In re Chicago & E. I. Ry. Co., 121 F. 2d 785.

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

Opinion of the Court.

bankruptcy court has. This is to argue that by reason of
its police power a State may determine the method and
manner of proving claims against property which is in its
jurisdiction and which is being administered by its courts
or administrative agencies. We have no doubt that it
may do so except as such procedure collides with the federal Constitution or an Act of Congress. See Broderick v.
Rosner, 294 U. S. 629. But where there is such a collision,
the action of a State under its police power must give way
by virtue of the Supremacy Clause. Article VI, Clause 2.
There is such a collision here. When we look to the general statute which Congress has enacted pursuant to the
Full Faith and Credit Clause, we find no exception in case
of liquidations of insolvent insurance companies. The
command is to give full faith and credit to every judgment of a sister State. And where there is no jurisdictional infirmity, exceptions have rarely, if ever, been read
into the constitutional provision or the Act of Congress in
cases involving money judgments rendered in civil suits.
Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, supra,p. 438; Williams
v, North Carolina,317 U. S. 287, 294, footnote 6.
The function of the Full Faith and Credit Clause is
to resolve controversies where state policies differ. Its
need might not be so greatly felt in situations where there
was no clash of interests between the States. The argument of convenience in administration is at best only another illustration of how the enforcement of a judgment of
one State in another State may run counter to the latter's
policies. But the answer given by Fauntleroy v. Lum,
supra,is conclusive. If full faith and credit is not given in
that situation, the Clause and the statute fail where their
need is the greatest. The argument of convenience, moreover, proves too much. In the first place, it would often
be equally appealing to individuals or corporations engaging in multistate activities which might well prefer to defend law suits at home. In the second place, against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

convenience of the administration of assets in Illinois is the
hardship on the Missouri creditor if he were forced to
drop his Missouri litigation, bring his witnesses to Illinois,
and start all over again. But full faith and credit is a more
inexorable command; its applicability does not turn on a
balance of convenience as between litigants. If this were
a situation where Missouri's policy would result in the
dismemberment of the Illinois estate so that Illinois creditors would go begging, Illinois would have such a large
interest at stake as to prevent it. See Clark v. Williard,
294 U. S. 211. But, as we'have said, proof and allowance
of claims are mattert distinct from distribution of assets.
The single point of our decision is that the nature and
amount of petitioner's claim has been conclusively determined by the Missouri judgment and may not be relitigated in the Illinois proceedings, it not appearing that the
Missouri court lacked jurisdiction over either the parties
or the subject matter. We do not suggest that petitioner
by proving his claim in judgment form can gain a priority
which he would not have had if he had to relitigate his
claim in Illinois. And, as we have said, there is not involved in this case any rule of distribution which departs
from the principle of parity as between Illinois creditors
and creditors from other States. See Clark v. Williard,
294 U. S. 211; Blake v. McClung, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with whom concur MR.
JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

So far as they are relevant to the question before us,
the facts of this case may be briefly stated. As part of
its policy in regulating the insurance business, Illinois
has formulated a system for liquidating the business of
any Illinois insurance concern that falls below requisite
standards. To that end it has provided that the title

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

to the assets of such an Illinois concern should, upon the
approval of the Illinois courts, pass to a State officer
known as a liquidator. A further provision of the State
law defines the procedure for enforcing claims against the
assets in Illinois that have thus passed into the liquidator's
hands. Claims against such assets must be proved to the
satisfaction of the liquidator, subject to appropriate
judicial review of his determinations.
It is not in question that the Illinois assets of Chicago
Lloyds, an Illinois insurance concern, passed into the ownership of an Illinois liquidator in due conformity with
Illinois law. Chicago Lloyds had also done business in
Missouri under a Missouri license. While the Illinois
assets were being administered by the Illinois liquidator,
Morris, a Missouri claimant, pressed against Chicago
Lloyds in a Missouri court an action for damages begun
while the company was still solvent. Without substitution of the Illinois administrator or appearance by him,
Morris obtained a judgment in the Missouri Court against
Chicago Lloyds. Apparently, there were no assets in Missouri against which this judgment could go. Thereupon
the Missouri judgment-creditor asserted a claim in the
distribution of the Illinois assets on the basis of the Missouri judgment. The liquidator declined to recognize
the Missouri judgment as such, maintaining that the Missouri creditor must prove his claim on its merits, precisely
as did Illinois creditors. The Superior Court of Cook
County sustained the liquidator and disallowed the claim
based on the Missouri judgment. Disallowance was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois. 391 Ill. 492, 63
N. E. 2d 479. The question now here is whether in disallowing the claim based on the Missouri judgment against
Chicago Lloyds, Illinois failed to give full faith and credit
to the judgment of a sister State, as required by Article IV,
§ 1 of the Constitution, and 1 Stat. 122, 2 Stat. 299, 28
U. S. C. § 687.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

We have under review a decision of the Illinois Supreme
Court regarding the mode of proving claims against Illinois assets of an Illinois insurance company in liquidation
in an Illinois court. The issue before us must be determined, however, as though the construction which the Illinois Supreme Court placed upon the Illinois law had been
spelt out unambiguously in the legislation itself. And so
the real issue is this. May Illinois provide that when an
insurance concern to which Illinois has given life can,
in the judgment of the State courts, no longer be allowed
to conduct the insurance business in Illinois, the State
may take over the local assets of such an insurance
concern for fair distribution among all who have claims
against the defunct conicern? May the State, pursuant
to such a policy, announce in advance, as a rule of fairness,
that all claims not previously reduced to valid judgment,
no matter how or where they arose, if they are to be paid
out of assets thus administered by the State, must be
proven on their merits to the satisfaction of Illinois? And
may the State specify that this mode of proof apply also to
out-of-State creditors so as to require such creditors to
prove the merit of their claims against the Illinois assets in
liquidation as though they were Illinois creditors, and
preclude them from basing their claims merely on a judgment against the insurance concern, obtained after it had
legally ceased to be, and after its Illinois assets had by
appropriate proceedings passed into ownership of an
Illinois liquidator?
It is safe to say that State regulation of the insurance
business is as old and as pervasive as any regulatory power
exercised by our States. See, e. g., Osborn v. Ozlin, 310
U. S. 53; Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S. 313. Not

even the banking business, of which, after all, insurance is
another phase, has been subjected to such continuous and
extensive State surveillance. But while banking has increasingly been absorbed by federal regulation, the reverse

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

FRANKFURTE,

J., dissenting.

has been true as to insurance. Indeed, after a pronouncement by this Court that insurance partakes of commerce
between the States, Congress by prompt legislation delegated or relegated the regulation of insurance, with appropriate exceptions, to the diverse laws of the several
States. See Prudential Insurance Co. v. Benjamin, 328
U. S. 408.
We are concerned here solely with the situation presented by a State's exercise of its power over the liquidation of the assets of an insurance company of its own creation. It is important to remember that in this as well
as in other connections rights are largely dependent on
procedure. It seems, therefore, difficult to believe that
when the property of a domestic insurance company
within the confines of a State comes into the State's hands
for the fair administration of still unliquidated claims
against that property, the State may not provide a rule of
parity in proving the amount of all claims which are to be
paid out of the common pot. We assume, of course, that
the procedure prescribed is consistent with the requirements of due process, and not in conflict with overriding
federal legislation. It is not suggested tha the procedure which Illinois affords does not satisfy these requirements. Standing by itself, such a rule of administration
would not be beyond the authority of a State. We must
assume it to be Illinois law that the power to pass upon
claims against property of a defunct Illinois insurance
company is lodged in the liquidator and that such power is
not to be foreclosed by a judgment against the defunct
concern after title passes to the liquidator. Does the Full
Faith and Credit Clause cut the ground from under such a
State law as to judgments obtained outside the State after
the control of the company and its assets had passed to
the State?
Concededly, after the title to the Illinois assets of Chicago Lloyds has passed to the Illinois liquidator, it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

not be open to a citizen of Illinois to obtain in the courts
of Illinois, so as to serve as a basis of a claim in Lloyds
Illinois assets, such a judgment as Morris,.a citizen of
Missouri, secured in the Missouri courts. It is thought,
however, thai because of Article IV, § 1, of the Constitution, Illinois could not deny such a superior right to the
Missouri citizen without denying full faith and credit to
the Missouri judgment. But the Full Faith and Credit
Clause does not imply that a judgment validly procured
in one State is automatically enforceable in another, quite
regardless of the consequences of such enforcement upon
that State's policy in matters peculiarly within its control.
Alaska PackersAssn. v. IndustrialComm'n, 294 U. S. 532,
546. The Full Faith and Credit Clause does not eat up the
powers reserved to the States by the Constitution. That
clause does not embody an absolutist conception of mechanical applicability. As is so often true of constitutional problems, an accommodation must be struck
between different provisions of the Constitution. When
rights are asserted in one State on the basis of a judgment
procured in another, it frequently becomes necessary, as it
does here, to define the duty of the courts of the former
State in view of that State's power to regulate its own
affairs.
The Full Faith and Credit Clause does not require a
State to provide a court for enforcing every valid sister
State judgment, even if its courts enforce like judgments in
general. Anglo-Am. Prov. Co. v. Davis Prov. Co. No. 1,
191 U. S. 373. Again, a judgment in one State determining the validity of a will is not a judgment binding on
another although it controls issues of succession in the
first State. Robertson v. Pickrell, 109 U. S. 608; Overby
v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214. Surely, the Full Faith and
Credit Clause does riot require a State to give an advantage to persons dwelling without, when State policy may
justifiably restrict its own citizens to a particular proce-

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

dure in proving claims against a State fund. But that
precisely might be the result if Illinois had to accept at
face value judgments obtained outside Illinois against a
defunct Illinois insurance concern after the Illinois assets
had passed to the Illinois liquidator.
Precedent and policy sustain the right of Illinois to
have each claimant prove his fair share to the assets in
Illinois by the same procedure. Chicago Lloyds is an Illinois entity doing business in Illinois according to conditions which Illinois had a right to fix for engaging in the
insurance business in Illinois. Illinois initiated her policy
for liquidating insurance companies in 1925. Lloyds was
first authorized to do business in 1928, and thereafter renewed annual authority was required. Missouri gave
Lloyds entry in 1932, and later renewed its authority for
additional one-year periods. Thus, Illinois gave advance
notice that if Chicago Lloyds should fall short of those
standards of solvency and safety appropriate for an insurance concern, it will, through a liquidator, seize the Illinois
assets of Chicago Lloyds for the protection of all claimants as to the merits of their claims. It warned the world
that when such a situation arose claims against assets in
Illinois must be proven in the manner which Illinois
has here required. The authorization to do Lloyds business in Illinois preated against the Lloyds assets in Illinois a sort of equitable lien, to speak freely but not too
loosely, to become effective at insolvency and liquidation.
To require that all claims against the estate in Illinois
liquidation should be established on their merits in the
Illinois proceedings may well have been deemed by Illinois the only way to protect the estate against foreign
judgments which the Illinois liquidator might have no
adequate means of contesting. It is irrelevant whether
in this or in any other particular situation the liquidator
could have contested a suit outside of Illinois. Certainly
nothing can turn on whether the Illinois liquidator appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

specially in the foreign litigation to assert the liquidation
of the company and the vesting of title to its assets in the
State of Illinois. We are concerned here with the respect
that is to be accorded to a judgment secured against the
company by appropriate procedure in another State.
Either such a judgment, obtained after the title to the Illinois assets vested in the Illinois liquidator, could be proven
for the face value of the judgment, or it could not. The
respect to be accorded such a judgment must turn on the
control which Illinois may constitutionally exercise in the
administration of Illinois property. Relevant to that issue of power is not whether in a particular suit the liquidator could have protected himself by entering as a litigant
in the suit in another State. What is relevant is whether
Illinois may deem that its liquidator might not be able
adequately to defend the estate in liquidation in every
State in which a suit might be pressed to judgment. What
is relevant also is whether in such liquidation proceedings
Illinois can refuse to accept at face value a judgment
against an Illinois insurance company obtained after that
company had ceased to exist, a judgment which the creditor would enforce against assets which passed to the State
before the judgment was obtained.
Due regard for the relations of the States to one another,
expressed by appropriate respect by one for the judicial
proceedings of another, does not require that the provisions carefully established by Illinois for the proper
safeguarding of these Illinois assets should be disturbed
by judgments secured outside of Illinois after the very
contingency for which Illinois provided had become a
reality. It would be unfair thus to subordinate the primary and predominant interest of Illinois simply because
the Illinois entity was allowed to enter Missouri. Missouri, like every other State, in admitting Chicago Lloyds
had notice of the congenital limitations, so far as Illinois
assets were concerned, under which Chicago Lloyds came

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

into being. And so, when Missouri admitted Chicago
Lloyds, it admitted an Illinois insurance concern with
full knowledge of what Illinois would exact, in case trouble
arose, to the extent of assets within the control of Illinois.
Of course Missouri has a right to provide for its methods
of administration, in case of default, as to Missouri
assets. But we are not here concerned with an attempt
to enforce the Missouri judgment against Missouri assets.
We put to one side whether Illinois law could pass title
to Missouri assets to the Illinois liquidator. See Clark
v. Williard, 294 U. S. 211. We do say that it is not within
the power of any other State, by admitting the Illinois
entity, to effect discrimination against the citizens of Illinois in the distribution of Illinois assets that had passed to
the State, for the fair distribution of which Illinois had
formulated an appropriate method of proof.
This analysis assumes a heavier burden than the case
makes necessary. It is not merely that Missouri had
notice of the conditions under which Chicago Lloyds was
doing business in Illinois and thereby charged all its citizens with knowledge of the limited power of Missouri to
affect Illinois assets upon liquidation. The Missouri
claimant had actual notice that the Illinois assets had
passed to the Illinois liquidator and that he was at liberty
to come into the Illinois proceedings to prove his claim.
The Missouri- claimant had in fact come into the Illinois
proceedings and filed his claim with the Illinois liquidator
before he pressed his Missouri suit to judgment. It is
a strong thing to say that Illinois could not say that under
these circumstances the Missouri claimant must prove
his claim the way every claimant in Illinois was bound
to prove his. Surely the Constitution of the United States
does not bar legislation by Illinois which provides a fair
sifting process for determining the amount of claims
against Illinois assets of an Illinois insurance company in
liquidation in an Illinois court so as to secure equality of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

treatment for all who assert claims against such a fund.
The Full Faith and Credit Clause does not impose upon
Illinois a duty to allow the face value of a judgment against
the insurance company secured in Missouri after the company's assets had passed into the possession of the Illinois
court, in a proceeding to which the Illinois liquidator was
not a party and could not have been made one.
The precise relation of the liquidator's legal position to
the Missouri judgment, on the basis of which Morris asserts a claim against the liquidator's assets, reinforces the
more general considerations. Morris had no judgment
against the company when by Illinois law title to Lloyds'
assets passed to the liquidator. The mere institution of
the Missouri suit gave Morris no greater right to the Illinois assets of Lloyds than he had before the action was
begun. By the time he obtained his judgment in Missouri, the company no longer had title to any assets in
Illinois to which the judgment might attach. By unassailable Illinois law, Lloyds' assets had passed to the liquidator. These assets could be reached only by valid judgment against him. In this respect, the law of Illinois
controlling the liquidation of Lloyds, as authoritatively
given us by the Supreme Court of Illinois, is decisively different from what this Court found to be the law of Illinois
regarding the Illinois surety company in process of dissolution in Ewen v. American Fidelity Company, 261 U. S.
322. The liquidator was not a party to the Missouri
action; he had not been served; he had not appeared; he
expressly denied the right of Lloyds to represent and bind
the Illinois liquidation estate. The authority with which
Illinois clothed its liquidator put him under a duty to
contest claims which the Company might not have deemed
itself under duty to contest, while on the other hand it
enabled him to recognize, as the Conipany might not have
recognized, the merit of claims otherwise than by judicial
command. The liquidator, as trustee for the creditors of

MORRIS v. JONES.
545

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the extinct Illinois company, represented interests that
were not the same as those represented by the extinct
company when it conducted its own business. In short,
the Illinois liquidator was thus a stranger to the Missouri
judgment and it cannot be invoked against him in Illinois.
See United States v. CaliforniaBridge Co., 245 U. S. 337;
Kersh Lake Dist. v. Johnson, 309 U. S. 485. Indeed, to
subject the assets of the Illinois liquidator to the claim of a
judgment obtained against Lloyds in Missouri subsequent
to the passage of those assets to the liquidator may well
raise constitutional questions. Riley v. New York Trust
Co., 315 U. S. 343; cf. Restatement, Conflict of Laws, § 450,
comment d.
It is suggested that out-of-State creditors, should be
saved the burden of proving their claims in Illinois. Of
course that is a proper consideration, and it would be
controlling, where a creditor has obtained judgment, if
there were no countervailing considerations. Against the
claim of out-of-State creditors must be set not merely the
interests of Illinois creditors, but also the importance of a
unified liquidation administration, the burden to the
liquidator of defending suits anywhere in the United
States, and the resulting. hazards to a fair distribution of
the estate. To require the face value of the Missouri
judgment of the Missouri claimant to determine his share
out of the Illinois fund might, of course, dilute the share
in the Illinois assets that can go to legitimate Illinois
claimants. Considering the primary and predominant relation of Illinois in the adjustment of these conflicting
interests, considering, that is, that we are dealing with a
creature of Illinois and the property of that creature within
her bounds, neither the demands of fairness nor anything
in the Constitution requires that the interests of the outof-State creditors should control the Constitutional issue.
The resolution of this conflict so that the out-of-State creditor must take his place with the Illinois creditors is an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

other instance of a price to be paid for our federalism, and
in this instance it is a very small price. If the situation
calls for correction by a uniform regulation, Congress has
the power to deal with the matter. Or the States might do
so through the various devices for securing uniformity of
State legislation. Illinois, in fact, has made overtures to
its sister States in this regard. It has adopted the Uniform Reciprocal Liquidation Act as proposed by the Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. By this Act claims
against insolvent Illinois insurance companies may be
proved in ancillary proceedings in any "reciprocal state."
Ill. Laws 1941, pp. 832-37, replacing Laws 1937, pp.
788-90, Smith-Hurd Ann. Stat. c. 73, § 833.3. That Missouri has not seen fit to protect the interests of Missouri
creditors by becoming a "reciprocal state" is not the fault
of Illinois.
A final word. It is suggested that this Court is merely
deciding the finality of the Missouri judgment in Illinois,
without any regard to its provability on a parity with
the claims of Illinois creditors in the distribution of Illinois
assets. But we are not merely passing on the abstract
status of the Missouri judgment. The only issue that
has ever been in this case is the right of the Missouri claimant to participate in the Illinois assets on the basis of the
face value of his judgment. Such was the claim made by
the creditor; such was the claim disallowed by the liquidator; such was the claim rejected by the lower court, and
such was the disallowance affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Illinois. It has never been questioned that the thrust of
the case was the opportunity of the Missouri judgmentcreditor-claimant to compete with the Illinois claimants
in the distribution of the estate not on the basis of the
merits of his claim, but on the amount fixed by the Missouri judgment. Neither by any of the courts nor by any
of the parties was any suggestion made that under Illinois
law the Illinois creditors have priority to exhaust the

GARDNER v. NEW JERSEY.
Syllabus.

545

Illinois assets. What was before that court and what is
before this Court is whether a Missouri claimant may share
in the distribution of a common fund not on the basis of a
claim established according to a uniform procedure but
on the basis of a judgment secured in Missouri subsequent
to the passing of that fund to the Illinois liquidator.
This is not to say that the Missouri judgment is invalid.
Whether recovery may be based on this judgment in Missouri, or in any other State except Illinois, or even in
Illinois should the assets go out of the State's hands and
return to a reanimated Chicago Lloyds, are questions that
do not now call for consideration.
The judgment should be affirmed.

GARDNER, TRUSTEE, v. NEW JERSEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 92.

Argued December 20, 1946.-Decided January 20, 1947.

A railroad petitioned for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy
Act after New Jersey taxes had accrued against it in an aggregate
amount exceeding the value of its liquid assets and extensive litiga-

tion over' the tax assessments had resulted adversely to it. The
state comptroller filed on behalf of the State a claim for taxes, plus
interest, claiming that, under the state law, the sums owed were secured by "a lien paramount to all other liens upon all the lands and
tangible property and franchises of the company in this State."
Objections to the claim were filed by the debtor, the trustee,
security holders, and an indenture trustee, who claimed, inter alia,
that the debtor's property was grossly overvalued, that the debtor
had been intentionally and systematically discriminated against in
making the assessments, that no interest accrued after the petition
for reorganization was filed or during the period when collection of
the taxes was enjoined and the debtor was contesting their validity,
that the State had no lien on the debtor's personal property, and
that no part of the State's claim except the principal amount of taxes
was entitled to a lien equal or paramount to the debtor's general

