OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

shipment for ultimate use in foreign countries. No persuasive evidence has been produced to indicate that those
who wrote the Constitution thought in such terms or that
they would have handicapped the state and federal taxing power in such a way. And no other sufficiently cogent
reasons have been advanced to require a present interpretation which so disarranges, confuses, and handicaps the
sales taxes of all the states.

AMERICAN POWER & LIG14T CO. v. SECURITIES
& EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
NO. 4.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 16, 1945. Reargued October 14, 15, 1946.Decided November 25, 1946.

1. Section 11 (b) (2) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935 directs the Securities & Exchange Commission, as soon as
practicable after January 1, 1938, "To require by order, after notice
and opportunity for hearing, that each registered holding company,
and each subsidiary company thereof, shall take such steps as the
Commission shall find necessary to ensure that the corporate structure or continued existence of any company in the holding-company
system does not unduly or unnecessarily complicate the structure,
or unfairly or inequitably distribute voting power among security
holders, of such holding-company system." In a proceeding instituted by the CommisSion under § 11 (b) (2), the Commission
found, after notice and hearing, that the corporate structure and
continued existence of petitioners, two subholding companies in
a holding company system, unduly and unnecessarily complicated
the structure of the system and unfairly and inequitably distributed
voting power among the security holders of the system, in violation
of the standards of § 11 (b) (2). The Commission thereupon entered orders requiring the dissolution of both petitioners and requir*Together with No. 5, Electric Power & Light Corp. v. Securities &
Exchange Commission, on certiorari to the same court

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Syllabus.

ing them to submit plans for effectuating the orders. Held that the
orders were authorized by § 11 (b) (2) and that the section as so
applied is constitutional. Pp. 96, 121.
2. Section 11 (b) (2) is a ,valid exercise of the power of Congress under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 96-104.
(a) Section 11 (b) (2) applies only to registered holding companies and their subsidiaries. P. 97.
(b' The impact of § 11 (b) (2) is limited, by reference to the
registration requirements, to those holding companies which are
in fact in the stream of interstate activity or that affect commerce
in more States than one, North American Co. v. S. E. C., 327 U. S.
686, and depend for their very existence upon the constant and
systematic use of the mails and the instrumentalities of interstate
commerce. P. 98.
(c) The holding company system in which the petitioners are
embraced possesses an undeniable interstate character which makes
it properly subject, from the statutory standpointq to the provisions
of§ 11 (b) (2). P.98.
(d) Congress has power.under the commerce clause to impose
relevant conditions and requirements on those who use the channels
of interstate commerce so that those channels will not be.conduits
for promoting or perpetuating economic evils. P. 99.
(e) Congress is completely uninhibited by the commerce clause
in selecting the means considered necessary for bringing about the
desired conditions in the channels of interstate commerce. Any
limitations are to be found in other sections of the Constitution.
P. 100.
(f) Congress has constitutional authority under the commerce
clause to undertake to solve national problems directly and realistically, giving due recognition to the scope of state power. P. 103.
3. Section 11 (b) (2) does not unconstitutionally delegate legislative
power to the Securities & Exchange Commission. Pp. 104-106.
(a) The standards of § 11 (b) (2), which provides that the Commission shall act so as to ensure that the corporate structure or
continued existence of any company in a particular holding company
system does not "unduly or'unnecessarily complicate the structure"
or "unfairly or inequitably distribute voting power among security
holders," are not too indefinite, in the light of the purpose of the
Act, its factual background and the statutory context in which
they appear. Pp. 104-105.
(b) Necessity fixes a point beyond which it is unreasonable and
impracticable to compel Congress to prescribe detailed rules. It

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

then becomes constitutionally sufficient if Congress clearly delineates
the general policy, the public agency which is to apply it, and the
boundaries of this delegated authority. Private rights are protected by access to the courts to test the application of the policy
in the light of these legislative declarations. P. 105.
(c) Under these circumstances, it is of no constitutional significance that the Commission, in executing the policies of § 11 (b) (2),
also has discretion to fashion remedies of a civil nature necessary for
attaining the desired goals. P. 106.
(d) The Constitution does not require that the Commission
transltte the legislative standards into formal and detailed rules of
thumb prior to their application to particular cases. It is sufficient
that the Commission's actions conform to the statutory language
and policy. P. 106.
4. Section 11 (b) (2) does not violate the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. Pp. 106-108.
(a) It is not the function of the Court to reweigh the factors
considered by Congress in enacting the legislation, or to question
the conclusion reached by Congress. P. 106.
(b)- Section 11 (b) (2) does not on its face authorize or necessarily
involve any destruction of any valuable interests without just
compensation. North American Co. v. S. E. C., 327 U. S. 686.
P. 107.
(c) Section 11 (b) (2) is not rendered void by the absence'of an
express provision for notice and opportunity for hearing to security
holders regarding proceedings under that section. P. 107.
(d) The managements of the petitioners, having been notified and
having participated in § 11 (b) (2) proceedings, possess no standing
to assert the invalidity of that section from the viewpoint of the security htlders' constitutional rights to notice and hearing. P. 107.
(e) The Commission is bound' under the statute to give notice
and opportunity for hearing to consumers, investors and. other
persons whenever constitutionally necessary. P. 108.
(f) Section 11 (b) (2), fairly construed, neither expressly nor
impliedly authorizes unconstitutional procedure. P. 108.
5. The record amply supports the Commission's findings that the
corporate structures and continued existence of petitioners unduly
and unnecessarily complicate the holding company system in which
they are subholding companies, and unfairly and inequitably distribute voting power among the security holders of that system.
Pp. 108-112.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Syllabus.

6. The Commission's choice of the dissolution of petitioners as "necessary to ensure" effectuation of the Act was authorized and may not
be set aside on judicial review. Pp. 112-118.
(a) Where Congress has entrusted an administrative agency with
the responsibility of selecting the means of achieving the statutory
policy, the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly a matter for
administrative competence. P. 112.
(b) Only if the remedy chosen is unwarranted in law or without
justification in fact should a court intervene. Pp. 112-113.
(c) Dissolution of a. holding company or a subholding company
is contemplated and authorized by § 11 (b) (2) as a possible remedy.
P. 113.
(d) The phrase "in the holding-company system" does not limit
the authority of the Commission to orders removing a particular
company from the holding company system of which it is a part but
permits an order terminating its corporate existence. P. 113.
(e) The legislative history of the Act compels the conclusion that
dissolution is one of the remedies contemplated by § 11 (b) (2) and
that its choice falls within the allowable area of the Commission's
discretion. Pp. 114-115.
(f) The Commission's choice of -dissolution with respect to the
petitioners is not so lacking in reasonableness as to constitute an
abuse of discretion. P. 115.
(g) Dissolution is not so drastic a remedy as to be unreasonable.
P. 116.
(h) Since the Commission's choice of dissolution of the petitioners
has a rational basis, the fact that other solutions might have been
selected is immaterial. P. 118.,
(i) Review by this Court of the Commission's choice of remedies
is limited solely to testing the propriety of 'the remedy so chosen from
the standpoint of the Constitution and the statute. P. 118.
(j) The Commission's finding that the continued existence of
petitioners violates the statutory standards warrants the order of
their dissolution, whatever may be the shortcomings of the parent
holding company. P. 118.
7. When the hearings in the proceedings instituted against the petitioners by the Commission under § 11 (b) (2) had been in progress
for more than a year and the record was approaching completion,
petitioners moved to consolidate applications for approval of plans
filed by them under § 11 (e), designed to adjust the companies to
the standards of § 11 (b) (2) without the necessity of dissolution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

The Commission deferred consideration of the motions until it
entered the dissolution orders under § 11 (b) (2). It then denied
the motions and refused to grant hearings on the plans in advance
of its orders of dissolution. It did this after thorough examination
of the plans and after finding that they were incomplete and inadequate on their face and that they failed to hold out any real 'promise
of effectuating the standards of § 11 (b) (2). Held that there was
no error in this procedure. Pp. 118-119.
(a) The filing of the plans under § 11 (e) did not oust the Commission of jurisdiction to enter its orders under § 11 (b) (2).
P. 119.
(b) Where consideration of plans filed under § II (e) leads the
Commission to the conclusion that on their face they are incomplete, inadequate and unlikely to satisfy the statutory standards,
or where they are found to have been filed solely for purposes of
delay, it would be contrary to the statutory policy of prompt action
to require the Commission to hold hearings on them before entering
an order under §11 (b) (2). P. 120.
(c) To the extent that entry of the § 11 (b) (2) orders made
the plans filed under § 11 (e) moot or hearings thereon unnecessary,
the result is one that is inevitable if proper accommodation is to
be made for. the different sections of the Act and for the various
statutory policies. Pp. 120-121.
(d) Moreover, a § 11 (b) (2) proceeding leads only to the expression of the Commission's view of what must be done to ensure
compliance with the statutory standards. Petitioners are not yet
foreclosed from attacking the Commission's orders under § 11 (b)
(2). P. 121.
141 F. 2d 606, affirmed.

In a proceeding under § 11 (b) (2) of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, the Securities & Exchange
Commission entered orders requiring the dissolution of
petitioners and requiring them to submit plans for the
effectuation of the orders. 11 S. E. C. 1146. The Circuit
Court of Appeals sustained the orders. 141 F. 2d 606.
This Court granted certiorari. 325 U. S. 846. Affirmed,
p. 121.

Arthur A. Ballantine and John F. MacLane argued the
cause for petitioner in No. 4 on the original argument,

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

and Mr. Ballantine on the reargument. With them on
the briefs were Frank A. Reid, Wilkie Bushby and Joseph
Schreiber.
Daniel James argued the cause for petitioner in No. 5.
With him on the briefs were John F. MacLane, Frank A.
Reid and John W. Nields.
Roger S. Fosterargued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, PaulA.
Freund, Milton V. Freeman, Morton E. Yohalem and
David Ferber.
Percival E. Jackson filed a brief for the Holders of Preferred Stock of Electric Power & Light Corporation, as
amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are concerned here with the constitutionality of
11 (b) (2) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935' and its application to the petitioners, the American Power & Light Company and the Electric Power &
Light Corporation.
American and Electric are two of the subholding companies in the Electric Bond and Share Company holding
company system, certain aspects of which were considered
by this Court in Electric Bond & Share Co. v. S. E. C., 303
U. S. 419. This system is a pyramid-like structure of
which Bond and Share itself constitutes the apex, five subholding companies (including American and Electric)
create an intermediate tier,' and approximately 237 direct
2 49 Stat. 803,821; 15 U. S. C. § 79k (b) (2).
2
The other three subholding companies are the American & Foreign
Power Company, Inc., the National Power & Light Company and
the American Gas & Electric Company. Bond and Share also has a

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

and indirect subsidiaries of the latter form the base.
From the standpoint of book capitalization and assets,
number of customers and areas served by the operating
companies, and quantity of electricity generated and gas
sold, the Bond and Share system constitutes the largest
single public -utility holding company system registered
under the Act.
The proceeding now under review was instituted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission under § 11 (b) (2)
of the Act. After appropriate notice and hearing, the
Commission found that the corporate structure and continued existence of American and Electric unduly and
unnecessarily complicated the Bond and Share system and
unfairly and inequitably distributed voting power among
the security holders of that system, in violation of the
standards of § 11 (b) (2). 11 S. E. C. 1146. Orders were
accordingly entered requiring the dissolution of both
American and Electric and requiring them to submit plans
for the effectuation of these orders. The First Circuit
Court of Appeals sustained the Commission's action in all
respects and affirmed its orders, while refusing to consider
certain contentions of American and Electric which had
not been raised before the Commission. 141 F. 2d 606.
We granted certiorari because of the obvious public
importance of the issues presented. 325 U. S. 846.
I.
At the outset, we reject the claim that § 11 (b) (2),
viewed from the standpoint of the commerce clause, is
unconstitutional.
wholly-owned service subsidiary, Ebasco Services Incorporated. The
organizational set-up is more fully explained in the Commission's
opinion in this proceeding, 11 S. E. C. 1146, and in In re Electric Bond
& Share Co., 9 S. E. C.978.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

So far as here pertinent,' § 11 (b) (2) directs the Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as practicable
after January 1, 1938, "To require by order, after notice
and opportunity for hearing, that each registered holding
company, and each subsidiary company thereof, shall take
such steps as the Commission shall find necessary to ensure
that the corporate structure or continued existence of any
company in the holding-company system does not unduly
or unnecessarily complicate the structure, or unfairly or
inequitably distribute voting power among security holders, of such holding-company system. . . . Except for
the purpose of fairly and equitably distributing voting
power among the security holders of such company, nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission to
require any change in the corporate structure or existence
of any company which is not a holding company, or of any
company whose principal business is that of a publicutility company."
Like § 11 (b) (1), its statutory companion, § 11 (b) (2)
applies only to registered holding companies and their
subsidiaries. We noted in North American Co. v. S. E. C.,
327 U. S. 686, 698, that by making certain interstate transactions unlawful unless a holding company registers with
the Commission, § 4 (a), and by extending § 11 (b) (1) to
registered holding companies, Congress has effectively
applied §11 (b) (1) to those holding companies that are
3The so-called "great-grandfather clause" of § 11 (b) (2) is not
involved in this case. That provides that "In carrying out the provisions of this paragraph the Commission shall require each registered
holding company (and any company in the same holding-company
system with such holding company) to take such action as the Commission shall find necessary in order that such holding company shall
cease to be a holding.company with respect to each of its subsidiary
companies which itself has a subsidiary. company which is a holding
company." See Otis & Co. v. S. E. C., 323 U. S. 624.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

in fact in the stream of interstate activity or that affect
commerce in more states than one. The identical observations can be made as to § 11 (b) (2). Its impact is likewise limited, by reference to the registration requirements,
to those holding companies which depend for their very
-existence upon the constant and systematic use of the
mails and the instrumentalities of interstate commerce.
Effect is thereby given to the legislative policy set forth
in § 1 (c) of interpreting all provisions of the Act to meet
the problems and to eliminate the evils "connected with
public-utility holding companies which are engaged in
interstate commerce or in activities which directly affect
or burden interstate commerce."

The Bond and Share system, including American and
Electric, possesses an undeniable interstate character
which makes it properly subject, from the statutory standpoint, to the provisions of § 11 (b) (2). This vast system
embraces utility properties in no fewer than 32 states, from
New Jersey to Oregon and from Minnesota to Florida, as
well as in 12 foreign countries. Bond and Share dominates
and controls this system from its headquarters in New
York City.' As was the situation in the North American
case, the proper control and functioning of such an exten4

The Commission found that "This control of the subholding com-

panies by Bond and Share is not limited in operation to the mere
casting of a certain percentage of votes at stockholders' meetings.
It permeates every stratum and unit of the holding company system
in the most comprehensive manner. . . . Through the concentrated
voting power of the securities owned by Bond and Share, it is able
to elect the directors of the subholding companies, and thus govern
the managements
selection of the respective managements. Through
of the subholding companies it is able to govern selection of the
directors and managements of each of the operating company subsidiaries of each of the subholding companies, The latter are in turn
responsive to Bond and Share's wishes respecting entry into service
contracts with Ebasco Services Incorporated, and the details of the
operations of their companies." 11 S. E. C. at 1203-04.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

sive multi-state network of corporations necessitates continuous and substantial use of the mails and the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce. Only in that
way can Bond and Share, or its subholding companies or
service subsidiary, market and distribute securities, control
and influence the various operating companies, negotiate
inter-system loans, acquire or exchange property, perform
service contracts, or reap the benefits of stock ownership.
See § 1(a). See also InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg,
217 U. S.91. Moreover, many of the operating companies
on the lower echelon sell and transmit electric energy or
gas in interstate commerce to an extent that cannot be
described as spasmodic or insignificant. Electric Bond &
Share Co. v. S. E. C., supra, 432-33.1 Such activities serve
to augment the interstate nature of the Bond and Share
system. And they make even plainer the fact that this
system falls within the intended scope of § 11 (b) (2).
Congress, of course, has undoubted power under the
commerce clause to impose relevant conditions and
requirements on those who use the channels of interstate
commerce so that those channels will not be conduits for
promoting or perpetuating economic evils. North American Co. v. S. E. C., supra; United States v. Darby, 312
U. S.100; Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S.432. Thus
to the extent that corporate business is transacted through
such channels, affecting commerce in more states than one,
Congress may act directly with respect to that business
to protect what it conceives to be the national. welfare. It
3The record before this Court-in the Bond and Share case revealed
that more than 31% of the total electric energy generated by Bond
and Share subsidiaries is transqiitted across state lines, while more
than 25% of all the electric energy transmitted across state lines in
the United States is Lindled by Bond and Share companies. Approximately 47% of the gas handled by Bond and Share companies is transported across state lines, this amount constituting more than 20% of
all the gas transported across state lines in the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

may prescribe appropriate regulations and determine the
conditions under which that business may be pursued.6
It may compel changes in the voting rights and other privileges of stockholders.! It may order the divestment or
rearrangement of properties.' It may order the reorganization or dissolution of corporations.' In short, Congress
is completely uninhibited by the commerce clause in selecting the means considered necessary for bringing about the
desired conditions in the channels of interstate commerce.
Any limitations are to be found in other sections of the
Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196.
Since the mandates of § 11 (b) (2) are directed solely
to public utility holding company systems that use the
channels of interstate commerce, the validity of that section under the commerce clause becomes appareat. It is
designed to prevent the use of those channels to propagate
and disseminate the evils which had been found to flow
from unduly complicated systems and from inequitable
distributions of voting power among security holders of the
systems. Such evils are so inextricably entwined around
the interstate business of the holding company systems as
to present no serious questior as to the power of Congress
under the commerce clause to eradicate them.
In the extensive studies which preceded the passage of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act, it had been
6 United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100; Electric Bond & Share Co.
v. tS. E. C., 303 U. S. 419.
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Standard
Oil Co. v.. United Stat es, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.
8
North American Co. v. S. E, C., 327 U. S. 686.
9Northern Securities Co. v. United States, supra; Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, supra; United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26;
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366. See also
Breckenridge, "Legal Study on Constitutional Power of Congress to
Regulate Stock Ownership in Railroads Engaged in Interstate Commerce," House Report No. 2789, 71st Cong., 3d Sess., Vol. 1, p. 1.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

found that "The most distinctive characteristic, and perhaps the most serious defect of the ptesent form of holdingcompany organization is the pyramided structure which is
found in all of the important holding-company groups
examined." " The pyramiding device in its most common
form consisted of interposing one or more subholding companies between the holding company and the operating
companies and issuing, at each level of the structure, different classes of stock with unequal voting rights. Most
of the financing of the various companies in the structure
occurred through the sale to the public of bonds and preferred stock having low fixed returns and generally carrying no voice in the managements. Under such circumstances, a relatively small but strategic investment in
common stock (with voting privileges) in the higher levels
of a pyramided structure often resulted in absolute control
of underlying operating companies with assets of hundreds
of millions of dollars. 11 A tremendous "leverage" in rela10

Federal Trade Commission Report to the Senate, "Utility Corporations," S. Doc. 92, Part 72-A,10th Cong., lst Bes., p. 858. See
also Bonbright and Means, The Holding Company (1932), p. 147;
Barnes, The Economics of Public U'tility Regulation (1942), pp. 71-81,
143-48.
1"By the pyramiding of holdings through numerous intermediate
holding companies an& by the ise at each level of the structure,
of different classes of stock with unequal voting rights, it has frequently
been possible for relatively small but powerful groups with a disproportionately small investment of their own to control and to manage
solely in their own interest tremendous capital investments of other
people's money." Report of the National Power Policy Committee
on Public-Utility Holding Companies, H. Doc. 137, 74th Cong., 1st
Bess., pp. 4-5.
"The effect of such pyramiding is to multiply greatly the control
that can be exercised by the dominant parties through their personal
resources. For example, in the illustration just given, an investment
of $1in common stock of Corporation Securities Co6 of Chicago would
exercise control over about $2,000 invested in properties of some of the
operating companies at the bottom of the pyramid.

It seems very

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

tion to that stock was thus produced; the earnings of the
top holding company were greatly magnified by comparatively small changes in the earnings of the operating companies. The common stock of the top holding company
might quickly rise in value and just as quickly fall, making
it a natural object for speculation and gambling. In many
instances this created financially irresponsible managements and unsound capital structures.'
Public investors
in such stock found themselves the innocent victims, while
those who supplied most of the capital through the purchase of bonds and preferred stock likewise suffered in
addition to being largely disfranchised. Prudent management of the operating companies became a minor consideration, with pressure being placed on them to sustain
the excessive capitalization to the detriment of their
service to consumers. Reduction of rates was firmly
resisted. The conclusion was accordingly reached by
those making the studies that the highly pyramided system "is dangerous and has no justification for existence" "
unsafe to have any form of pyramiding which has such a financial
basis, not only on account of the excessive concentration of control
over immense masses of property but also because of the opportunity
it offers to financial adventurers to have too much influence over
the general economic interests of the country." Federal Trade Commission Report, supra, note 10, p. 161.
11The Federal Trade Commission Report, supra, note 10, p. 860,
found that the highly pyramided holding company system tends to
make those few in control at the top "(1) neglect good management
of operating companies, especially by failing to provide for adequate
depreciation; (2) exaggerate profits by unsound, deceptive accounting; (3) seek exorbitant profits from service fees exacted from subsidiaries; (4) disburse unearned dividends, because the apparent gains,
so obtained, greatly magnify the rate of earnings for the top holding
company; and (5) promote extravagant speculation in the prices of
such equity stocks on the exchanges."
3
2 Ibid., p. 162.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.

103

Opinion of the Court.

90

and "represents the holding-company system at its
worst." "'
Such was the general nature of the problem to which
Congress addressed itself in § 11 (b) (2). Various abuses
traceable in substantial measure to the use of the pyramiding. device were enumerated in § 1 (b). And it was
specifically found in § 1 (b) (3) that the national public
interest and the interests of the investors and consumers
are or may be adversely affected "whey control of such
[subsidiary] companies is exerted through disproportionately small investment."
The problem which underlies § 11 (b) (2), therefore,
deals with the very essence of holding company systems.
Their pyramided structures and the resulting abuses, like
their other characteristics, rest squarely upon an extensive
use of the mails and the instrumentalities of interstate
commerce. Conversely, every interstate transaction of
such systems is impregnated in one degree or another with
the effects of complicated corporate structures and inequitable distributions of voting power. Many of these effects
may be intangible and indistinct, but they are nonetheless
real.
To deny that Congress has power to eliminate evils
connected with pyramided holding company systems,
evils which have been found to be promoted and transmitted by means of interstate commerce, is to deny that
Congress can effectively deal with problems concerning
the welfare of the national economy. We cannot deny
that power. Rather we reaffirm once more the constitutional authority resident in Congress by virtue of the commerce clause to undertake to solve national problems
directly and realistically, giving due recognition to the
scope of state power. That follows from the fact that
1,Ibid., p. 860.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ihe federal commerce power is as broad as the economic
needs of the nation. North American Co. v. S. E. C.,
8upra.
II.

We likewise reject the claim that § 11 (b) (2) constitutes an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power
to the Securities and Exchange Commission because of an
alleged absence of any ascertainable standards for guidance in carrying out its functions.
Section 11 (b) (2) itself provides that the Commission
shall act so as to ensure that the corporate structure or
continued existence of any company in a particular holding company system does not "unduly or unnecessarily
complicate the structure" or "unfairly or inequitably distribute voting power among security holders." It is
argued that these phrases are undefined by the Act, are
legally meaningless in themselves and carry with - them
no historically defined concepts. As a result, it is said,
the Commission is forced to use its unlimited whim to
determine compliance or non-compliance with § 11 (b)
(2); and in framing its orders, the Commission has unfettered discretion to decide whose property shall be taken
or destroyed and to what extent. Objection is also made
on the score that no standards have been developed or
announced by the Commission which justify its action in
this case.
These contentions are without merit. Even standing
alone, standards in terms of unduly complicated corporate
structures and inequitable distributions of voting power
cannot be said to be utterly without meaning, especially
to those familiar with corporate realities. But these
standards need not be tested in isolation. They derive
much meaningful content from the purpose of the Act, its
factual background and the statutory context in which
they appear. See Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

476. From these sources-from the manifold evils revealed by the legislative investigations, the express recital
of evils in § 1 (b) of the Act, the general policy declarations of Congress in § 1 (c), the standards for new
security issues set forth in § 7, the conditions for acquisitions of properties and securities prescribed in § 10, and
the nature of the inquiries contemplated by § 11 (a)-a
veritable code of rules reveals itself for the Commission to
follow in giving effect to the standards of § 11 (b) (2).
These standards are certainly no less definite in nature
than those speaking in other contexts in terms of "public
interest," "just and reasonable rates," "unfair methods of
competition" or "relevant factors." The approval which
this Court has given in the past to those standards thus
compels the sanctioning of the ones in issue. See New
York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S.
12, 24-25; Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S.414, 419-27,
and cases cited.
The judicial approval accorded these "broad" standards
for administrative action is a reflection of the necessities
of modern legislation dealing with complex economic and
social problems. See Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 398. The legislative process would
frequently bog down if Congress were constitutionally required to appraise beforehand the myriad situations to
which it wishes a particular policy to be applied and to
formulate specific rules for each situation. Necessity
thereforefixes a point beyond which it is unreasonable and
impracticable to compel Congress to prescribe detailed
rules; it then becomes constitutionally sufficient if Congress clearly delineates the general policy, the public
agency which is to apply it, and the boundaries of this delegated authority. Private rights are protected by access
to the courts to test the application of the policy in the
light of these legislative declarations. Such is the situation here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Under these circumstances, it is of no constitutional
significance that the Commission, in executing the policies
of § 11 (b) (2), also has discretion to fashion remedies of a
civil nature necessary for attaining the desired goals. See
Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194.
The legislative policies and standards being clear, judicial

review of the remedies adopted by the Commission safeguards against statutory or constitutional excesses.
Nor is there any constitutional requirement that the
legislative standards be translated by the Commission into
formal and detailed rules of thumb prior to their application to a particular case. if that agency wishes to
proceed by the more flexible case-by-case method, the

Constitution offers no obstacle. All that can be required is
that the Commission's actions conform to the statutory
language and-policy.
III.
Our decision in North American Co. v. S. E. C., supra,
largely disposes of the objections to § 11 (b) (2) on the
basis of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Section 11 (b) (2), like § 11 (b) (1), materially affects
many property interests of holding companies and their
investors; it may even destroy whatever right there is to
continued corporate existence on the part of a holding
company that is fourid to complicate a system unnecessarily and to serve no useful function. But Congress
carefully considered these various interests and found
them "outweighed by the political and general economic
desirability of breaking up concentrations of financial
power in the utility field too big to be effectively regulated
in the interest of either the consumer or the investor and
too big to permit the functioning of democratic institutions.." 1 It is not our function to reweigh these diverse
15 Senate Report No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

factors or to question the conclusion reached by Congress.
Nor can we say that § 11 (b) (2) on its face authorizes
or necessarily involves any destruction of any valuable
interests without just compensation. The legislative policy and the statutory safeguards pointed out in the North
American case (pp. 709-710) negative that a"rgument.
Equally groundless is the contention that § 11 (b) (2)
.is void in the absence of an express provision fdr notice and
opportunity for hearing as to security holders regarding
proceedings under that section. The short answer is that
such a contention can be raised properly only by a security
holder who has suffered injury due to. lack of notice or
opportunity'for hearing. No security holder of that type
is now before us. The managements of American and
Electric admittedly were notified and participated in the
hearings as required by § 11 (b) (2) ; and they possess no
standing to assert the invalidity of that section from the
viewpoint of the security holders' constitutional ights to
notice and hearing. See Tyler v. Judges of Court of Registration, 179 U. S. 405, 410; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S
152,160.
However. the Commission in this instance actually gave
all security holders of American and Electric public notice
of the pendency of the § 11 (b) (2) proceedings and invited them to file applications for intervention before a
stated time. This was done pursuant to § 19, which permits the Commission, in accordance with such rulcs and
regulations as it may prescribe, to admit any representative of interested consumers or investors, or any other
appropriate person, as a party to any proceeding before
that body. These security holders thus received everything which the Constitution could possibly guarantee
them in this respect.
That the statute does not expressly insist upon what in
fact has been given the security holders is without consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

tutiorfal relevance under these circumstances. Wherever
possible, statutes must be interpreted in accordance with
constitutional principles. Here, in the absence of definite contrary indications, it is fair to assume that Congress
desired that § 11 (b) (2) be lawfully executed by giving
appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing to all
those constitutionally entitled thereto. And when that
assumptiorf is added to the provisions of § 19, it becomes
quite evident that the Commission is bound under the
statute to give notice and opportunity for hearing to consumers, investors and other persons whenever constitutionally necessary. See The Japanese Immigrant Case,
189 U. S. 86, 100-101.
But should the Commission neglect to follow the necessary procedure in a particular case, such failure would at
most justify an objection to the administrative determination rather than to the statute itself. It would then be
needless to do more than nullify the action taken in di'regard of the constitutional 'rights to notice and opportunity for hearing. Since we do not have that situation
here, however, we need only reiterate that § 11 (b) (2),
fairly construed, neither expressly nor impliedly authorizes unconstitutional procedure. It is thus immune to
attack on that basis. See Kentuck Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321; Bratton v. Chandler,260 U. S. 110; Toombs
v. Citizens Bank, 281 U. S. 643. Cf. Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S. 413; Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276
U.S. 13
IV.
Turning to the Commission's action under § 11 (b) (2)
with respect to American and Electric, we find that the
record amply supports the finding that their corporate
structures and continued existence unduly and unnecessarily complicate the Bond and Share system and unfairly
and inequitably, distribute voting power among the secu-

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

rity holders of that system. We need do no more here
than state the major facts before the Commission underlying this crucial finding.
Bond and Share organized these two subholding companies under the laws of Maine in 1909 and 1925, respectively. Until 1935, American and Electric had neither
offices nor employees; their books were kept by Bond and
Share employees in Bond and Share's offices in New York
City. Their officers were employed by and paid by Bond
and Shiare. Their subsidiaries were managed in every
detail by Bond and Share. And whenever they dealt with
their parent they were represented solely by employees
and counsel of Bond and Share. Functionally, the Commission e und, American and Electric were mere sets of
books in Bond and Share's office.
In 1935, shortly before the effective qate of the Public
Utility Holding Company Act, certain superficial changes
were made in the organizational set-up of the Bond and
Share system. A separate service subsidiary, Ebasco
Services Incorporated, was created to continue functions
formerly carried out by the Bond and Share service department. Each of the subholding companies, including
American and Electric, was given its own set of officers
and employees as well as a separate suite of offices in the
Bond and Share office building. Other minor changes
took place, but the system in effect continued to operate
precisely as it had prior to 1935. Bond and Share still
had complete and unquestioned control over American,
Electric and their operating subsidiaries.
There is an absence of substantial evidence that either
American or Electric is presently able to perform any
useful role in the operations of its subsidiaries, such as
organizing them into integrated systems or furnishing
them with capital or cash. Both companies currently
have vast accumulations of unpaid preferred dividends

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

in arrears, not having been able to meet dividend requirements in the ten years preceding 1941. Instances of past
functions relating to subsidiaries reveal either harmful
results or the guiding hand of Bond and Share.
The real purpose of American and Electric, as the Commission found, is to act as the leverage and pyramiding
device whereby Bond and Share can amass control over
vast sums contributed by others and realize for itself large
earnings and profits without proportionate investmentthe prime evil at which § 11 (b) (2) is directed.
Bond and Share holds 20.7% of the total voting stock
of American, this holding having a book value of nearly
$10,000,000 or 3.68% of American's total capitalization
of $270,000,000. Through this investment, Bond and
Share controls not only American but also American's 21
subsidiaries with a total capitalization of $729,000,000.
An investment of $10,000,000 thus controls $729,000,OOG,
a ratio of 1 to 73.
Bond and Share also holds 46.8% .of Electric's total voting stock; the book equity of this holding amounts to
$17,500,000 or 9.14% of Electric's total capitalization of
$192,000,000. Bond and Share is thereby enabled to control not only Electric but also Electric's 11 direct and 11
indirect subsidiaries with a total capitalization of
$654,000,000. An investment of $17,500,000 thus controls $654,000,000, a ratio of 1 to 37.
The Commission, however, made alternative calculations which gave American and Electric the benefit of a
more favorable assumption. It adjusted upward the book
figures for Bond and Share's common stock interests in
these companies to reflect the amount by which the values
on the books of the subsidiaries exceeded corresponding
values at which American and Electric carried their stock
interest in those subsidiaries. But even after such adjustments,.Bond and Share's investment equals only 8.2% of

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

. Opinion of the Court.

American's capitalization and only 3.42% of the book
values of American's subsidiaries; and its investment in
Electric is the equivalent of only 22.25% of Electric's
capitalization and 8.72 % of the book values of Electric's
subsidiaries."6
This disproportion between Bond and Share's investment and the value of the property controlled is even more
acute if further adjustments are made to reflect the unconscionable write-ups and inadequate depreciation which
the Commission found in the book figures of the various
operating companies. American and Electric disagree
with many of these adjustments and urge that the book
values can be justified; and complaint is made that the
Commission refused to consider certain valuation testimony offered by American in this respect. We deem it
unnecessary, however, to enter into these disputed matters. Even with the use of the book values, the attenuated investment ratio is such as to justify the Commission's conclusion that Bond and Share's control of the
operating companies is achieved "through disproportionately small investment." On that basis, over 96% of the
investment in American's subsidiaries is without effective
voting representation, while over 91% of the book values
of Electric's subsidiaries is similarly disfranchised.'"
16 Bond and Share's holdings of voting.stock of all five of its subholding companies have a stated book value of only $53,337,600, after
adjustment for preferred arrearages, which is equal to about 1.85%
of the combined consolidated capitalization of the five subholding
company systems. This results, after adjustments, in rendering completely ineffectual whatever voting power remains for the securities
in the hands of the public investors who have contributed over 80%
of the total capitalizations.
" We do not understand the Commission to contend that the percentage of voting power and the percentage of investment should
necessarily be equal. Its view simply is that i.o process of weighting
could render fair and equitable a distribution of voting power by
which Bond and Share controls all of American's subsidiaries by an

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Such evidence is more than enough to support the finding that American and Electric are but paper companies
without legitimate functional purpose. They serve
merely as the mechanism by which Bond and Share maintains a pyramided structure containing the seeds of -all
the attendant evils condemned by the Act. It was reasonable, therefore, for the Commission to conclude that
American and Electric are undue and unnecessary complexities in the Bond and Share system and that their
existence unfairly and inequitably distributes voting
power among the security holders of the system.
V.

The major objection raised by American and Electric
relates to the Commission's choice of dissolution as "necessary to ensure" that the evils would be corrected and
the standards of § 11 (b) (2) effectuated. Emphasis is
placed upon alternative plans which are less drastic iin
nature and which allegedly would meet the statutory
standards.
It is a fundamental principle, however, that where Congress has entrusted an administrative agency with the
responsibility of selecting the means of achieving the statutory policy "the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly
a matter for administrative competence." Phelps Dodge
Corp. v. Labor Board, supra, 194. In dealing with the
complex problem of adjusting holding company systems
in accordance with the legislative standards, the Commission here has accumulated experience and knowledge
which no court can hope to attain. Its judgment is entitled to the greatest weight. While recognizing that the
Commission's discretion must square with its responsibility, only if the remedy chosen is unwarranted in law
investment representing at best 3.42% of their capitalization, or 8.72%
inthe case of Electric's sqbsidiaries. See In re Electric Bond & Share
Co.,. 9 S. E. C. 978, 992.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

or is without justification in fact should a court attempt
to intervene in the matter. Neither ground of intervention is present in this instance.
Dissolution of a holding company or a subholding company plainly is contemplated by § 11 (b) (2) as a possible
remedy. It directs the Commission to take such steps as
it finds necessary to ensure that "the corporate structure
. or continued existence of any company in the holdingcompany system" does not violate the standards set forth.
American and Electric argue that the phrase "in the holding-company system" limits the authority of the Commission to orders removing a particular company from the
holding company system of which it is a part and does not
,permit an order terminating its corporate existence.
Grammatically, this contention is without merit. The
phrase "in the holding-company system" no more modifies
"continued existence" than it does "corporate structure."
It relates, rather, to the word "company," 18 as though the
phrase read "the corporate structure or continued existence of any company which is in the holding-company
system."
Such a construction accords with the policy as well as
other provisions of the Act. Section 1 (c) declares it to
be one of the policies of the Act, in accordance with which
all provisions shall be interpreted, "to provide as soon as
practicable for the elimination of public-utility holding
companies except as otherwise expressly provided in this
title." The last sentence of .§ 11 (b) (2) provides that
"Except for the purpose of fairly and equitably distributing voting power among the security holders of such company, nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission to require any change in the corporate structure or
existence of any company whici is not a holding com18The words "any company in the holding-company system" were

substituted for the words "such company" in an earlier draft of
§ 11 (b) (2). No change in substance was thereby indicated.

1114

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

pany, ... " Moreover, §§ 11 (f) and 11 (g) specifically
refer to dissolution or plans for dissolution of registered
holding companies or their subsidiaries in accordance with
§ 11.1 Such statements would be meaningless and unnecessary were dissolution not contemplated as a possible
remedy under § 11 (b) (2).
The legislative history supports this interpretation.
The original bill which passed the Senate (S. 2796, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess.) contained a provision quite similar to the
present first sentence of § 11 (b) (2), except that it was
mandatory that the Commission require each registered
holding company and subsidiary "to be reorganized or dissolved" when the Commission found that it violated the
standards of. that section. In addition, § 11 (e) as then
written permitted a voluntary plan "for the divestment
of control, securities, or other assets, or for the reorganization or dissolution, of such company or any subsidiary
company." The bill also contained a § 11 (b) (3), providing that within five years all holding companies should
cease to be holding companies unless the equivalent of a
certificate of convenience and necessity were obtained from
the Federal Power Commission. But the House of Representatives insisted upon the elimination of § 11 (b) (3)
and the bill finally reported out by the joint conference
committee deleted that provision. A further change was
made at this time so tlot § 11 (b) (2), instead of specifyihg reorganization or dissolution as the remedies, gave the
Commission power to require "such steps" as it might find
necessary to ensure compliance. Section 11 (e) was also
19Section 11 (f) refers to fees, expenses and remuneration paid in
connection with any, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, bankruptcy or receivership of a registered holding company or a subsidiary
thereof. Section 11 (g) speaks of proxies, etc., used "in respect of
any plan under this section for the divestment of. control, securities,
or other assets; or for the dissolution of any registered holding company or any subsidiary company thereof."

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

changed to permit a voluntary, plan "for the divestment
of control, securities, or other assets, or for other action by
such company or any subsidiary company thereof."
Thus the compromise bill which became law oinitted the
unconditional provision of § 11 (b) (3) for the elimination
of all holding companies within five years, substituting
therefor the "great-grandfather clause" of § 11 (b) (2),
and gave the Commission discretion todetermine the necessary steps for compliance instead of specifying reorgai)ization or dissolution. There is nothing to indicate that the
framers of the compromise bill neant to forbid reorganiza- i
tion or dissolution as remedies which the Commission
might choose. Indeed, the fact that "ese two remedies
had been previously specified is strong evidence that they
were in the minds of those who wrote the portion of S 11
(b) (2) now under consideration and that those persons
merely wished not to restrict the Commission to those two
remedies; they thus gave the Commission discretion to
choose whatever remedy it felt necessary. This legislative
history, when combined with the various references to dissolution in other parts of § 11, compels the conclusion that,,
dissolution is one of the remedies contemplated by § 11
(b) (2) and that its choice falls within the allowable area
of the Comission's discretion.
Nor can we say that the Commission's choice of dissolutioni with respect to American and Electric is so lacking in
reasonableness as to constitute an abuse of its discretion..
The Commission chose dissolution because it felt that such
action is calculated to correct the situation "most effectively and quickly, ever bearing in mind the stated policy
of the Act to provide as soon as practicablefor the eliniination of all holding companies except as expressly provided
in the Act." 11 S. E. C. at 1215. It stated that while some
measure of amelioration in the statutory offensiveness of
American and Electric might be afforded by other
approaches, "in our opinion no approach presently avail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

able holds out the promise of effectuating the statute's requirements fully or promptly." Ibid., p. 1215. Cf. Siegel
Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 327 U. S. 608. That this
choice of,dissolution in preference to other remedies is not
lightly to be disregarded is shown by the statement of Dr.
Walter Splawn, much relied upon by Congress in shaping
this statute, that "The most effective means of preventing
pyramiding is to eliminate the so-called intermediary
companies interposed between the operating company and
the company at the top." I
Without attempting to invade the domain of the Commission's discretion, we can readily perceive a factual
basis underlying the choice of dissolution in this instance.
The Commission reasonably could conclude from the record that American and Electric perform no justifiable
function; they are unnecessary complexities enabling
Bond and Share to perpetuate its pyramided system. The
actual and potential evils resulting from')their continued
existence may well be said to outweigh an' of their claimed
advantages, especially since many of the latter seem
impossible of attainment due to the unsbund financial
structures of the companies. The Commission was thus
warranted in feeling that dissolution of these companies
is necessary to the attainment of the standards of
§ 11 (b) (2).
We are unimpressed, moreover, by the claim that dissolution is so drastic a remedy as to be unreasonable. Elimination of useless holding companies may be carried out by
fair and equitable methods so as to destroy nothing of real
value. American and Electric, the Commission found, are
little more than a set of books and a portfolio of securities.
And we cannot say that the Commission was without basis
for its belief thgt dissolution under these circumstances
20 Splawn Report, .1.Rep. No. 827, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., Pt. 2, p. VII,
made pursuant to F J. Res. 572, 72d Cong., 2d Sess., referred to in
§ 1 (b) of the Act.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E.,C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

would harm no one. It may well have considered the fact
brought out in the argument before us that, so far as Bond
and Share and the public security holders are concerned,
dissolution would mean little more than the receipt of
securities of the operating companies in lieu of their present shares in American and Electric. Any number of
benefits might thereafter accrue to these security holders.
Their equities in the Bond and Share system would be
materially strengthened by the removal of the useless and
costly subholding companies and their voting power would
tend to be more in proportion to their investment. The
financial weaknesses of the various companies remaining
in the system would be easier to correct, with numerous
benefits to the consumers and the general public as well as
the investors.'
"In short, the individual investor should
receive the kind of a security he thought he was buying in
the first place. The actual clearing up, through clean reorganizations, of the tangle in which holding-company
finance has left the industry and those who have invested
in it, can reestablish a confident, stable market for good
utility securities." Senate Report No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 17. These factors lend substance to the Commission's conclusion that "the dissolution of these companies
which not only have never served any useful purpose but
have been a medium of much harm, will effectuate the provisions and policies of the Act and will in all respects be
2 "It
is thus apparent that though Section 11 is on occasions still referred to as a 'death sentence,' the sophisticated observer no longer
regards even the directed reorganization or liquidation of a holding
company as a step to be feared by investors. There is increased recognition that these steps in the enforcement of the Act have'been 'akin to
a surgical operation, through which the dead skin (the top holding
company) was being cut away from the pores (the operating cpmpanies) in order to allow the latter to breathe.'" Blair-Smith and
Helfenstein, "A Death Sentence or a New Lease on Life?" 94 Univ.
of Pa. L. Rev. 148, 201.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

beneficial to the public intere and the interest of investors and consumers; and we so find." 11 S. E. C. at 1215.
In view of the rational basis for the Commission's
choice, the fact that other solutions might have been
selected becomes immaterial. The Commission is the body
which has the statutory duty of considering the possible
solutions and choosing that which it considers most appropriate to the effectuation of the policies of the Act. Our
review is limited solely to testing the propriety of the remedy so chosen from the standpoint of the Constitution and
the statute. We would be impinging upon the Commission's rightful discretion were we to consider the various
alternatives in the hope of finding one that we consider
more appropriate. Since the remedy chosen by the Commission in this instance is legally and factually sustainable, it matters not that American and Electric believe,
that alternative orders should have been entered. It is
likewise irrelevant that they feel that Bond and Share is'
the principal offender against the statutory standards and
that the Commission should merely have required Bond
and Share to divest itself of its interests in American and
Electric. The Commission found that American and
Electric violate the statutory standards, a finding that is
supportable whatever may be the shortcomings of Bond
and Share.
Finally, lengthy objections have been made relative to
the Commission's procedure in treating alternative plans
filed under § 11 (e) by American and Electric. These
plans were designed to adjust the companies to the standards of § 11 (b) (2) without the necessity of dissolution.
Motions were made to consolidate the applications for
approval of these plans with the proceedings instituted by
the Commission under § 11 (b) (2), the hearings then
having been in progress for more than a year and-the record
approaching completion. The Commission deferred consideration of the motions until it entered the § 11 (b) (2)i

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

Opinion of the Court.

orders now under review; it then denied the motions and
refused to grant hearings on the plans in advance of its
orders of dissolution. It did this, however, only after
thorough examination of the proposed plans and after
findhig that they failed to hold out any real promise of
effectuating the standards of § 11 (b) (2).
We fail to perceive any error in this procedure. The filing of the § 11 (e) plans. of course, did not oust the
Commission of jurisdiction to enter its orders under
§ 11 (b) (2). That jurisdiction grows out of the statutory
command that the Commission declare by order, as soon
as practicable, what each holding company system requires
by way of integration and simplification. Section 11 (e)
merely permits the holding companies to formulate their
own programs for compliance with § 11 (b) or to submit
plans in conformity with prior Commission orders under
§ 11 (b), appropriate notice and hearing being contemplated. It does not necessarily give such plans the effect
of staying proceedings under § 11 (b) (2) where such proceedings are initiated prior to the filing of the plans. Any
other conclusion would permit the filing of dilatory plans
so as to render impotent the power and duty of the
Commission to enter § 11 (b) (2) orders as soon as
practicable.
We assume that the Commission will give due consideration to any plans that are filed under § 11 (e) before it
enters a § 11 (b) (2) order. If it finds that such plans
may have merit and may effectuate the policies of § 11 (b)
(2), the principles of orderly administration would dictate
that entry of the § 11 (b) (2) order be deferred until full
hearings are had with respect to the plans.2 2 It might then
" With reference to S. 2796, it was said: "Subsection (e) expressly
authorizes a holding company subject to the approval of the Commission and the court to work out a plan of reorganization to make
unnecessary the issuance of an involntary order for its reorganization by the Commission,..." Senate Report No. 621, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess.,p. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

become apparent that an involuntary order under § 11 (b)
(2) would be unnecessary and statutory compliance could
be worked out solely under § 11 (e). But where consideration leads the Commission to the conclusion that
the plans on their face are incomplete, inadequate and
unlikely to satisfy the statutory standards, or where the
plans are found to have been filed solely for purposes
of delay, it would be contrary to the statutory policy of
prompt action to require the Commission to hold hearings
on the plans before entering a § 11 (b) (2) order. The
Commission then would have no reasonable statutory alternative but to enter the § 11 (b) (2) order as soon as
practicable, especially where the unsatisfactory plans are
filed long after the institution of the § 11(b) (2) proceedings. And it is proper for the Commission to make an
adverse determination of this nature in regard to the
§ 11 (e) plans at the time of entry of the § 11 (b) (2)
order, such matter lying within the sound discretion of
the Commission.
Here the Commission gave due consideration to the § 11
(e) plans and found them to be incomplete and inadequate
on their face. It pointed out that seven years had elapsed
since the effective date of the Act, four and a half years
since the date after which action under § 11 was to be
required "as soon as practicable" and more than two years
since the present proceedings had been instituted. These
factors of time and the lack of substance in the § 11 (e)
plans led the Commission to conclude that a delay in the
entry of the § 11 (b) (2) orders which it felt necessary to
the effectuation of the statutory standards would not be
justified. And our examination of the situation reveals
an adequate basis in fact for the Commission's action.
Note should be made of the fact that the Commission did
not refuse by order to hold hearings on the § 11 (e) plans.
But to the extent that the entry of the § 11 (b) (2) orders.
has made the plans moot or the hearings unnecessary, the

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

result is one that is inevitable if proper accommodation
is to be made for the different sections of the Act and for
the various statutory policies.
Moreover, a § 11 (b) (2) proceeding leads only to the
expression of the Commission's view of what must be done
to ensure compliance with the statutory standards. Actual compliance comes later. In the meantime, nothing
precludes American or Electric from seeking revocation of
the dissolution orders on a showing that the conditions
upon which the orders were predicated do not exist,
thereby making some other type of order more appropriate. Section 11 (b) expressly envisages such a procedure,
with provision for notice and hearing. American and
Electric thus are not yet foreclosed from attacking the
Commission's orders under § 11 (b) (2).
From what we have said it follows that we must affirm
the judgment of the court below and sustain the action of
the Commission. The other points that have been raised
either do not merit discussion or have been adequately
answered in the opinion of the court below.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER agrees with this opinion
except that he believes that consideration of the requirements of notice and hearing under § 11 (e) does not arise,

in view of the particular circumstances under which the
§ 11 (b.) (2) orders were here made.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or decision

of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I concur in the result and in the Court's opinion, except
those portions of Part V dealing with the Commission's
procedure in treating the alternative plans filed under
§ 11 (e) of the Act by American and Electric.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

Although, for reasons to be stated, I think the Commission's action in entering its § 11 (b) (2) order must
be sustained, I do not think its procedure in respect to
making provision for dealing with the alternative plans
was in compliance with § 11 (e) or the rights to notice and
hearing on such plans which it assured. Because the matter may be of considerable importance for the future, I
desire to state my reasons for difference from the views
expressed by the Court in this respect.
Section 11 (b) (2) makes it the Commission's duty "as
soon as practicable after January 1, 1938," to require by
order each registered holding company and each subsidiary
thereof, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to take
such steps as the Commission shall find necessary to ensure
"that the corporate structure or continued existence of any
company in the holding-company system does not unduly
or unnecessarily complicate the structure, or unfairly or
inequitably distribute voting power among security holders,.of such holding-company system." 49 Stat. 803, 821.
If this section stood alone and unqualified in the Act, the
Commission's power would be unquestionable to require
the necessary steps to b_ taken to accomplish the section's
stated purposes .without reference to voluntary plans submitted by the companies affected.
But § 11 (b) (2) does not stand alone or unqualified in
this respect. Section 11 (e)' expressly provides for the
1"In
accordance with such rules and regulations or order as the
Commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest
.or for the protection of investors or consumers, any registered holding

company or any subsidiary company of a registered holding company may, at any time after .January 1, 1936, submit a plan to the
Commission for the divestment of control, securities, or other assets,
or for other action by such company or any subsidiary company
thereof for the .purpose of enabling such company or any subsidiary
company thereof to comply' with the provisions of subsection (b). If,

after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission shall find
such plan, as submitted or as modified, necessary to effectuate the

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
0

RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

submission of plans to effectuatethe objects of § 11 (b) (2)
by "any registered holding company or any -subsidiary
company of a registered holding company." This is to be
done "in accordance with such rules and regulations or
order as the Commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors
or consumers." Moreover, "if, after notice and opportunity for hearing; the Commission shall find such plan, as
submitted or as modified, necessary to effectuate the provisions of subsection (b) and fair and equitable to the
persons affected by such plan, the Commission shall
make an order approving such plan ....
(Emphasis
added.)
I do not think that § 11 (e) simply provides a procedure
alternative to that of § 11 (b5 which the Commission is
free to follow or disregard at its pleasure. Both the terms
of the Act and the legislative'history show that the purpose
of § 11 (e) was to allow companies affected "to work out a
plan of reorganization to make unnecessary the issuance
of an involuntary order for its reorganization
...
which could only be issued under § 11 (b). S. Rep. No.
621,74th Cong., 1st Sess., 33; Commonwealth & Southern
Corp. v. S. E. C., 134 F. 2d 747, 751. In my opinion this
purpose, together with the provision for voluntary plans
to be submitted "in accordance with such rules and regulations or order as the Commission may deem necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors," 2 assures the right to submit such plans for
."

provisions of sibsection (b) and fair and equitable to the persons
affected by sutch plan, the Commission shallmake an order approving.
such plan; and the Coxhmission, at the request of the company, may
apply to a court, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (f)
of section 18, to enforce and carry out the terms and provisions of such
plan. : . ." 49 Stat. 803, 822. (Emphasis added.)
2 The requirement obviously is not a permission to the Commission
to dispense altogether with such rules, regulations or order in its dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTUDGE, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

the Commission's consideration and-to have them considered and determined "after notice and opportunity for
hearing." See Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258,
264-265.
Furthermore, although the section gives the Commission broad discretion concerning the procedure to be followed, it would seem clear, both from the section's purpose and from its terms, that the Act contemplates that
it shall make the required determination, concerning
such a voluntary plan properly submitted, prior to the
entry of any order under § 11 (b). Cf. Ashbacker Radio
Corp. v. F. C. C., 326 U. S. 327. Only in this way could
the legislative purpose "to make unnecessary issuance of
an involuntary order" be made effective. This being
true, the section cast upon the Commission the duty of
providing the appropriate procedure for submitting voluntary plans, by rules, regulations or order comporting
with the specified standards, including those for notice
and hearing.
The record does not disclose that the Commission at any
time complied with those requirements in these cases. So'
far as appears no general rules or regulations were issued.
Nor was any order made or entered providing for such a
procedure. On the contrary, the procedure followed was
not, in its initial stages, in accordance with the statutory
provisions, as the following chronology demonstrates.
On May 10, 1940, notice of hearing under § 11 (b) (2)
was served on thepetitioners. The notice made no reference to 9 11 (e) or any possible alternative proceedings
under it. The hearing was set for June 10, 1940, scarcely
time for the petitioners to prepare both a voluntary plan,
cretion. It is rather a statutory direction to make them in accordance with the standards prescribed. Any other view would contradict the stated purpose of the section and make of it, in effect, a dead
letter.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

RUTLEDGE, J.,

125

concurring.

even if opportunity for filing and hearing were to be afforded, and a defense on the § 11 (b) (2) hearing. Indeed,
petitioners recognized that the time was inadequate for
preparing their defense, for they applied for postponement
.of the hearing and other relief. 3 The Commission postponed the hearing one week, but found no adequate ground
for further extension.
The hearing was commenced on June 18,1940. On July
23, 1941, American submitted its voluntary plan under
§ 11 (e). On December 3, 1941, Electric filed its plan.
And on December 6, 1941, both companies moved to consolidate their applications with the pending § 11 (b) (2)
proceedings.' By agreement of counsel consideration of
the motion was delayed for the Commission to pass upon
3

The application stated in part: "It is obvious from the nature of
the proceeding .. .that the matters to be dealt with at the hearing
are of vital import to the respondents and their subsidiaries, as well
ai to the hundreds of thousands of investors in securities of companies in the Electric Bond and Share Company system and the
millions of consumers presently receiving necessary public utility service from the operating companies in said system. In the circumstances, respondents believe, first, that they should be given adequate
time not only to check and verify the numerous factual allegations
contained in the order, but also to develop and correlate for presentation all other facts having a bearing upon the problems and issues
presented by the notice and order . ...
' At the same time American, which previously had filed its plan
with the Commission, sought to introduce the plan as an exhibit into
the § 11 (b) (2) hearing. The company's attorney stated, "This
plan which has been filed by American Power & Light Company with
the Commission sets forth a proposal for the compliance with Section
11 of the Act, and I think that it is material and relevant in this proceeding." The reply of the trial examiner, sustaining an objection to
its admission, apparently typifies the attitude of the Commission toward the requirements of § 11 (e) : "Quite possibly it relates to Section
11; quite possibly it is a matter which the Commission will want to
consider before it finally makes up its mind. It is quite probable.
But, nevertheless, we are here restricted to this particular proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

329 U. S.

at the end of the § 11 (b) (2) hearing 5 and on July
22, 1942, that hearing was closed as to petitioners by
stipulation.
On August 31, 1942, the Commission filed its opinion in
support of the orders Which are now enforced. In the
same opinion it denied the motion to consolidate and also
denied petitioners any hearing on their voluntary plans.
The motion was denied on the stated ground: "It appears
that if consolidation were granted, the result would be to
inject into the present proceeding issues of fact and law in
many respects different from, and unrelated to, those here
involved. In consequence, no useful purpose would be
served by permitting the consolidation of the 11 (e) plans
with the present proceeding, but on the contrary, delay
and confusion would inevitably result." ' Consistently,
separate hearing was denied as to the voluntary plans
apparently on the grounds that consideration of them
would delay the § 11 (b) proceeding, so as to defeat the
and not the power of the Commission or the action of the Commission.
The hearing is restricted to 11 (b) (2)."
The Commission at no time before or during the hearing recognized
that § 11 (e) plans not only were relevant to whether action should be
taken under § 11 (b) (2), but also were required to be considered by
hearing before such action is taken. Its view apparently is to the contrary. See Matter of Electric Bond & Share Co., 11 S. E. C. 1146,
1217-1218, quoted in note 7 infra; Matter of Commonwealth & Southern Corp.. 11 S. E. C. 138, 154-156. The examiner, of course, could
not hell) himself. The hearing had been limited to § 11 (b) (2). 7
S. E. C. 391.
5The redord does not disclose what the agreement was or for what
reasons it was made. To delay consideration of the motion to consolidate was in effect to deny it insofar as it sought a joint hearing,
though it was always possible for the Commission to order a hearing
on the voluntary plans before it issued its § 11 (b) (2) order.
O 11 S. E. C. 1146, 1152.
The Commission noted that "these plans
were filed at a time when the record in the present proceeding was

nearing completion." Ibid.

AMERICAN POWER CO. v. S. E. C.
90

RUTLEDGn, J.,

concurring.

statutory policy of prompt action," and that the plans were
incomplete and ineffective.
It is apparent from this recital that the Commission did
not at any time comply with the requirement of § 11 (e)
that it provide by rules, regulations or order an orderly
procedure to carry out the section's command and purpose
for the submission and consideration of voluntary plans.
And if petitioners had stood upon their rights in this respect, by timely action taken in good faith, the Commission's failure to observe them would have given ground
for reversal.
But it is equally obvious that the petitioners did not
assert their rights in a manner which invalidates the Coin7"With respect to the former point, that of promptness, it need
only be considered that it would be nfecessary for respondents and the
Public Utilities Division to formulate and present, and for us to explore, detailed and very extensive evidence on a number of extremely
cbmplex subjects before it would be possible for us to determine even
the preliminary question of whether the 11 (e) plans do in fact constitute acceptable alternative courses of action for achieving the objectives of Section 11. In the event it were necessary to determine the
question in the negative, presumably we should be free (even under
respondents' contention) to enter our order of dissolution herein following the lengthy delay, unless respondents in the meantime proposed a new 11 (e) plan which would necessitate a repetition of this
process. On the other hand, in the event we were ultimately able
to approve the plans, they would still not become effective unless and
until ratified by vote of the companies' stockholders.
"Considering that 7 years have now gone by since the effective
date of the Act, that 41/2 years have elapsed since the date after which
action under Section 11 was to be required 'as soon as practicable,'
and that more than 2 years have been consumed since the present proceeding was instituted, it is evident that respondents' program is too
fraught with potentialities of delay to be acceptable as a substitute for
a dissolution order to meet the problems existing under Section 11
(b) (2). Section 11 (e) which provides a medium for voluntary compliance with Section 11 (b) was not intended to oust the Commission
of its jurisdiction, or relieve it of its obligation, to enforce the provisions of 11 (b)." (Emphasis added.) 11 S. E. C. 1146, 1217-1218.
Compare notes 4 and 6, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

329 U. S.

mission's action in entering its § 11 (b) (2) order or made
the denial of the motion for hearing reversible error. The
petitioners had notice that the Commission would proceed with the § 11 (b) (2) hearing from the time such
notice was given in May, 1940. They applied for a continuance. But the record does not disclose that they
sought it in order to have time to prepare and submit a
voluntary plan or indeed that they took any action toward
securing a hearing on such a plan until they submitted
their plans. In one case this was more than a year after
the § 11 (b) hearing began, in the other nearly a year and a
half after that time. When shortly after the latter submission the motions to consolidate were made, consideration was deferred by agreement of counsel until the end
of the § 11 (b) (2) hearing; and about seven months
later that hearing was closed as to the petitioners by
stipulation.
Although in my opinion it was the Commission's duty
initially to make provision for notice and hearing on voluntary plans, in accordance with § 11 (e), the petitioners
hardly can be considered to have been ignorant either of
this duty or of the Commission's failure to perform it. By
standing by through the long period of the § 11 (b) proceedings prior to the time of submitting their plans without taking earlier action to secure preservation of their
rights to hearing on such plans, the petitioners should be
taken to have waived their rights to such hearings. They
were not entitled to assert them for the first time at so late
a stage in the § 11 (b), proceedings. Nor, in my opinion,
is the Commission required to give further consideration
to such plans in these cases, unless in its own discretion it
sees fit to do so.8
8

Cf. § 11 (b): "The Commission may by order revoke or modify
any order previously made under this subsection, if, after notice and
opportunity for hearing, it finds that the conditions upon which the
order was predicated do not exist." 49 Stat. 803,821.

