UNITED STATES v. BRUNO.
187

207

Syllabus.

jury service, the federal court did not at once enlarge that
policy into a mandatory requirement that all qualified
women be placed upon all federal jury lists.
For these reasons, I am unable to concur.in the judgment setting aside the indictment and verdict. The convictions in this case should be affirmed, and I concur in
the statement by Mr. Chief Justice Stone: "Certainly
none of respondents' constitutional rights are violated if
they are prosecuted for the fraudulent procurement of
money by false representations as to their beliefs, religious
or otherwise." United States v. Ballard,322 U.S. 78,90.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join ih this dissent. MR. JUSTICE JACKSON joins in
it except in so far as the final paragraph relates to an
affirmance of the convictions.

UNITED STATES v. BRUNO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 67.

Argued November 22, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.

In a criminal trial for selling waste paper at a price above the ceiling
fixed-by Maximum Price Regulation 30 pursuant to ยง 205 (b) of
the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, evidence that the defendant sold at a price above the ceiling by falsely describing the
grade and that he accepted payment at the excessive price, held
sufficient to support a conviction, although it also showed that the
sales were subject to the right of customers to reject paper of lower
grade than represented and that, in three out of five cases covered
by a five-count information where customers objected and the
Office of Price Administration had made an investigation, defendant subsequently adjusted the price to the ceiling price for the
grade actually delivered: Pp. 210, 211.
153 F. 2d 843, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Petitioner was convicted of selling waste paper at a
price above the ceiling fixed by Maximum Price Regulation 30 pursuant to ยง 205 (b) of the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 153 F. 2d 843. This Court granted certiorari.
328 U. S. 828. Reversed, p. 211.
Stanley M. Silverberg argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, Robert L. Stern, George Moncharsh, David
London, Irving M. Gruber and Albert J. Rosenthal.
George R. Sommer argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A criminal information was brought against Bruno for
having wilfully sold1 waste paper at prices higher than
the ceilings established by Maximum Price Regulation 30.'
The information contained five counts, each count charging a sale of a carload lot in 1944 at prices above the established ceilings. The jury found Bruno guilty on all five
counts. He was sentenced to imprisonment for six months
and fined $500. The judgment of conviction was reversed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 153 F. 2d 843. The
case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we
granted because of an asserted conflict in principle between
the decision below and United States v. Seidmon, 154 F.
2d 228, in the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals.
Bruno was in charge of a business, owned by a relative, which bought and sold waste paper. Carrano was a
middleman who bought waste paper from Bruno on orders

I Section

205 (b), Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, 56 Stat.

23,2 33, 50 U. S. C. App. Supp. III ยง 925 (b).
See 7 Fed. Reg. 9732, 8 Fed. Reg. 13049, 17483.

UNITED STATES v. BRUNO.
207

209

Opinion of the Court.

from Carrano's customers. The paper was shipped by
-Bruno direct to the customers, Carrano paying Bruno the
price.
In each of the five sales challenged. here, Carrano ordered from Bruno a grade of paper known as No. 1 assorted
kraft. In each, Bruno invoiced the shipment as such and
charged the ceiling price for that grade of waste paper.
Carrano paid Bruno the invoice price. It appears that
the orders were subject to inspection and approval of the
waste paper by the customers; that they customarily made
the inspections on receipt of the shipments; and that if
the paper was below the grade at which it had been invoiced, the customers would pay Carrano the lower ceiling price, Carrano debiting Bruno with the difference.
Each of the five shipments in question was inspected by
the customer on its arrival. It was discovered that each
shipment was largely composed of corrugated paper, a
grade carrying a lower ceiling price. In three cases, the
customers paid Carrano only for the quality of waste paper
received. Carrano thereupon debited Bruno with the
difference. In two cases, the customer did not complain
of the upgrading and Bruno retained the over-charges.
Moreover, the debits to Bruno in the three instances mentioned followed on the heels of an investigation by the
Office of Price Administration. It also appears that the
debits were not shown on Bruno's books. His ledger
showed sales, not at the invoice price, but at lower prices.
The concealed amounts were explained by Bruno as constituting his commissions on the sales.
The District Court charged the jury that "before you
can find him guilty, there must have been in his mind an
intention not to set a price and then have it adjusted afterwards according to the truth of the situation, but an intent
3

The Circuit Court of Appeals seemed to proceed on the assumption
that in no instance did the ultimate price which was paid exceed the

ceiling price.

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

to fix this price and charge it and get away with it,-an
intent to commit the crime, the formation of a purpose
in his mind when he did this thing, to get more money for
that paper than the ceiling price established by law."'
The court also charged that there could be no conviction
if Bruno did not sell the waste paper "with the intent of
receiving higher than ceiling price, and did not actually
receive higher than ceiling price."
We think it was proper to submit the case to the jury.
The evidence seems to us ample to support the conviction.
There was false grading in each invoice. The sales were
not ma -at a price to be determined on the customers'
inspection of the grade. They were made at specific
invoice prices which were above the ceiling. The goods
were delivered at those prices; and those were the prices
4 The preceding part of the charge was:
"In order that there may be a crime here, there must have bees
an intent on the part of this defendant to commit that crime,
which was to receive a price for the paper which he sold which
was in excess of the ceiling price. Now, if actually there had
been paid to him more than the ceiling price, but it was the intent
and intention of all persons respecting it, not to accept that as
the final price necessarily, but to accept it subject to adjustment
which would be made upon the examination of the paper actually
delivered and the establishment of the price set by law for that
paper, that is, if they had the idea that the only price to be received was that which the law set for the paper actually delivered,
and that actually was what was paid, then there was no intent
on ]us part to break the law. But if he sold this paper to the
dealer, the wholesale dealer for a price which was above the ceiling price, and that was the price that he intended to get, and if
you find as a fact that the only reason he didn't get it was because
he didn't get away with it and there was a discovery without his
having intent to do the honest decent thing, and that was the only
reason he didn't get it, still he would have had an intent to commit
the crime and would have effectively committed it when he
received above-ceiling price which he intended to receive, if he
did so intend, and if the only reason that he didn't get the ceiling
price was because he was found out."

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
207

Syllabus.

actually paid. In some instances there was a subsequent
adjustment of the price to conform to the price ceiling for
the grade actually shipped. But in others there was not.
And bearing on the integrity of the system were two other
facts--(1) the debits made followed the OPA investigation; (2) the inflated prices were not disclosed on Bruno's
books. In a seller's market upgrading may be a convenient device for black market operations. As the Circuit
Court of Appeals noted, when paper is scarce the seller
may send not what is ordered but what he has, on the
assumption that manufacturers will be glad to take any
kind of paper they can get. In view of the inadequacy
of the supply, buyers cannot always be expected to reject
upgraded shipments or insist upon price adjustments.
The facts of this case sustain that theory, for in two instances no price adjustment was sought or made. In view
of all the circumstances, the jury could well conclude that
the system adopted by Bruno was designed to bring him
more for the goods than was lawful.
'Reversed..
FISWICK ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.,
CERTIORARJ TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 19, 20, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.

1. Petitioners and others were indicted for conspiracy to defraud the

United States in violation of ยง 37 of the Criminal Code. The indict-ment charged that petitioners conspired with each other, and with

others, to defraud the United States by concealing and misrepresenting their membership in the Nazi party. The last overt act
alleged to- have been committed by any of the petitioners was the
filing by one of them of a registration statement under the Alien
Registration Act of 1940, in which he falsely failed to disclose his
connection with and activities in the Nazi party. Held thai the
conspiracy charged and proved did not extend beyond the date of
the last overt act, and that admittance in evidence against all of the

