Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN V. HILTON.

This disposes of the first assignment of error. There is no dispute as to the amount of the trust fund, and no complaint is made
of the rate of interest for which the defendant has been decreed
to account, if he is liable to account at all.
The second assignment of error is to the effect that the court
could not direct the payment of the principal sum to a new
trustee, because such a decree was inconsistent with the specific
relief prayed for. The prayer is for an aocount, the removal
of the old trustees, the payment to the complainant of th5
money she is entitled to, and for general relief. There is no
specific prayer for the appointment of a new trustee, or the
payment of the principal of the fund to him when appointed;
but such relief is necessary, in order to carry into full effect an
order for the removal of the old trustees.
SDecree affirmed.

GrVEN v.

HILTON.

1. Where the intent of a testator to make a complete disposition of all his property is manifest throughout his will, its provisions should be so construed,
if they reasonably may, as to carry that intent into effect.
2. While an apparent general intent cannot control his particular directions plainly
to the contrary, or enlarge dispositions beyond their legitimate meaning, it is
of weight in determining what he intended by particular devises or bequests
that may admit of an enlarged or a limited construction.
8. The rule in the construction of wills, where certain things are enumerated,
that a more general description, which is coupled with the enumeration,
is commonly understood to cover only things ejusden generis with the particular things mentioned, rests on a mere presumption, easily rebutted by
any thing which shows that the larger subject was in fact in the testator's
view.
4. The will in this case construed, and hdd, 1. That the testator intended to
dispose of his entire estate, and not to die intestate as to any portion of it.
2. That his direction to his executors to sell all his estate not otherwise
devised and bequeathed was intended to secure a complete conversion, to
all intents, of his entire property into personal estate. 3. That, with the
exception of the lot devised, his entire estate, both real and personal, after
the payment of his debts and of the legacies prior to that given to the
residuary legatee, passed to the latter.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The bill in this case was filed by John Emory Hilton and

eertain other heirs-at-law and next of kin of John P. Hilton,

GIVEN V. HILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

against John T. Given and Carberry S. Hilton, his executors
and others, to obtain judicial construction of his last will and
testament. It prayed for an injunction restraining the executors from selling any portion of the real estate until they should
first have applied the personal estate to the payment of debts and
the legacies specified in the will, and, in the event of any deficiency, then to sell no greater portion of such real estate than
would be sufficient to discharge such debts and legacies.
The court decreed that the debts due by the deceased were
to be first paid, then the legacies, and both from the personal
estate, if that be sufficient; but if not, then that the real estate
be resorted to, but only to discharge any deficiency, and that the
residue of said real estate be equally divided among the heirs.
From this construction of the will the defendants appealed
to this cohirt.
This will, which was duly attested and admitted to probate,
is as follows: "In the name of God, armen.

I, John P. Hilton, of Washington

City, in the District of Columbia, . . . do . . . make and publish

this my last will and testament, in manner and form following, that
is to say:...
"After my debts and funeral charges are paid, my worldly estate,
with which it bath pleased God to intrust me with, I devise and
bequeath as follows: "Item. As soon after my decease as possible, I direct that my
debts and funeral expenses be paid out of any portion of my estate
which may first come into the hands of my executors hereinafter
named.
"Item. Secondly, I direct that all of my estate, except such as
is hereinafter otherwise devised and bequeathed, be sold by my
executors at as early a day as practicable, upon such terms and
conditions as may seem best in their judgment for the best interest
of all herein concerned, and that the proceeds arising therefrom
shall be divided in the following manner and proportions as they
are first herein named, written, and stated, as far as the amount
realized from the sale of my said estate will allow, viz.: "Item. I give and devise unto my kind and obedient son, Carberry S. Hilton, and my grandchildren, John Perry Hilton and
Harry Slicer Hilton, sons of Carberry S. Hilton, all that part of
lot eight (8) of Davidson subdivision of square two hundred and

Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN V. HILTON.

fifteen (215), fronting on 14th Street west, between L and M Streets
north, with the improvements; that is to say, one-half of the said
lot and improvements to the said Carberry S. Hilton, in fee-simple,
and the remaining half as he may choose, to him the said Carberry
S. Hilton, in trust for the sole use and benefit of his said children,
John Perry Hilton and Harry Slicer Hilton, in fee-simple, to be
equally divided between them.
[Here follows a number of pecuniary legacies.]
"Item. I give and bequeath unto my kind, affectionate son,
Carberry S. Hilton, all the rest and residue of my estate of which
I may die seised or possessed, which is not herein otherwise devised and bequeathed, such as moneys, bonds, stocks, judgments,
notes, household furniture, and all personal effects of every description, and not herein otherwise disposed of, for his sole use and benefit and that of his children.
"1tem.I direct that the rents accumulating from my estate,
until such time as my executors shall have disposed of the same,
shall be distributed as follows: After deducting all expenses for
repairs, taxes, and insurance, the same shall be equally divided
among my four children; namely, Carberry S. Hilton, Ann Terring
Smith, John Emory Hilton, and Laura R. M1orsell.
"And, lastly, I do hereby constitute and appoint my dear son,
Carberry S. Hilton, and my esteemed fiiend, John T. Given, of
Washington City, District of Columbia, to be sole executors of this
my last will and testament, revoking and annulling all former wills
by me heretofore made, ratifying and confirming this and none
other to be my last will and testament, requesting that my son,
Carberry S. Hilton, the first-named executor of this my will, that
he make no charge for any service he may render in the execution
thereof.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
my seal this nineteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord
eighteen hundred and seventy-three.
[SEAL.]
"JNO. P. HILTON."
Mr. Richlard T. ferrick and Mr. William P. Mattingly for
the appellants.
Mr. Walter S. Cox and Mr. John J. Johnson, contra.
MR. JUSTIOE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The ultimate question in this case is what passed under the
residuary clause of the testator's will. It can be answered
VOL. V.
88

GIVEN V. HILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

intelligently only after a careful examination of all the provisions of the instrument, and an ascertainment therefrom of the
testator's general scheme. That he intended to make a complete disposition of all his property, leaving none to pass under
the intestate laws, is abundantly manifest. He commenced by
declaring that, after his debts and funeral charges were paid,
he devised and bequeathed the worldly estate with which it
had pleased God to intrust him. Next followed a direction that
these debts and expenses should be paid, as soon after his
decease as possible, out of any portion of his estate that might
first come into the hands of his executors. Then followed a
direction that all his estate, not otherwise devised and bequeathed (all except a single lot of ground devised to a son),
should be sold as soon as practicable, and that the proceeds
thereof should be divided in a manner and in proportions
described thereafter. Here the real estate and the personalty
are commingled and treated as one fund. All is to be converted
into money, and all is to be distributed; and, to guard against
the least intestacy, and insure that all his estate should pass
under his will, by a subsequent disposition he disposed of the
rents that might accumulate from his estate, before the executors should sell it, by distributing them among his children.
These dispositions are utterly inconsistent with an intention to
leave any portion of his estate to descend under the intestate
laws; and they accord with the general rule that no presumption of an intent to die intestate as to any part of his property
is allowable when the words of a testator's will may fairly carry
the whole. Stehman and Others v. Stehman, 1 Watts (Pa.),
466. The law prefers a construction which will prevent a partial intestacy to one that will permit it, if such a construction
may reasonably be given, VFernon v. Vernon et al., 53 N. Y.
351; and certainly when, as in this case, the intent to make a
complete disposition of all the testator's property is manifest
throughout his will, its provisions should be so construed, if
they reasonably may be, as to carry into effect his general
intent.
We do not mean to be understood as asserting that an apparent general intent to make by his will a complete disposition
nf all a testator's estate can control particular directions plainly

Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN v. HILTON.

to the contrary, or enlarge dispositions beyond their legitimate
meaning. What we do assert is, such a general intent is of
weight in determining what was intended by particular devises
or bequests that may admit of enlarged or limited constructions.
It has already been noticed, the testator in this case ordered
that all his estate, except a single lot, and confounding realty
and personalty, should be sold by his executors as soon as practicable. This sale he .lirected to be made upon such terms and
conditions as might seem best in their judgment for the interests of all concerned in the will; and he directed the proceeds
arising therefrom to be divided in the manner and proportions,
"as first written, named, and stated" in the will, as far as the
amount realized from the sale would allow. Then followed a
devise of the excepted lot, and various pecuniary bequests, succeeded by a residuary legacy to his son, given in the following
words: "I give and bequeath unto my kind and affectionate
son, Carberry S. Hilton, all the rest and residue of my estate,
of which I may die seised or possessed, which is not herein
otherwise devised and bequeathed, such as moneys, bonds, stocks,
judgments, notes, household furniture, and all personal effects
of every description, and not herein otherwise disposed of, for
his sole use and benefit and that of his children."
If by this residuary clause the testator intended to give only
the residue of that which was personalty immediately preceding
his death, then he died intestate as to all his real estate not
needed for the payment of his debts and other legacies, and as
to the surplus of the proceeds of its sale not necessary for those
payments. Then there is a resulting interest in all his children
as collectively heirs-at-law; and, as that which was personalt 3
at his death is, by admission, largely insufficient for the payment of those debts and legacies, the residuary legatee takes
nothing under the bequest to him, for the personal property is
first to be applied to discharge the debts and legacies. But, oil
the other hand, if by the direction to sell all his estate the tes
tator intended its conversion into personalty out and out, or for
all intents, and not merely for the payment of the legacies prior
to the residuary gift, the residuary clause carried all that may
remain after those legacies shall be paid.

GIVEN v. ]EHILTON.

[Stup. Ct.

It is a fundamental question, therefore, whether the testator's
direction to his executors to sell "all his estate" worked an
absolute conversion of his realty into personalty. It is un
doubtedly established doctrine that when a will directs con
version of realty only for certain purposes, which are limited,
for example, for the payment of particular legacies, and follows
the direction by a bequest of the residue of personal estate, the
conversion takes place only so far as the proceeds of the sale
are needed to pay the legacies prior to the residuary one, and
the gift of the personalty will not carry the produce of the sale
of the lands in the absence of a contrary intent plainly manifested. The surplus or excess retains the quality of 'realty, and
is transmitted either by a devise of the realty, if there be one,
or descends under the intestate laws. Hence it is often a question, and frequently a difficult one, whether the direction to
sell was for a limited purpose, or for all purposes, and, consequently, whether the testator's intent was to impress upon all
the proceeds of the sale the quality of personalty. There are
certain things which are considered indicative of an intent to
cause a complete conversion. It has been held that a general
direction to sell and apply the proceeds indiscriminately to the
payment of debts and legacies operates as a conversion out and
out. Roper on Legacies, 341, 342, et seq.; King v. Woodhull,
3 Edw. (N. Y.) 82; Durour v. Motteux, 1 Ves. 320.
Blending the proceeds of realty and personalty in one fund
for the payment of debts and legacies is generally regarded evidence of an intention to give to the proceeds of a sale ordered
the character of personalty -throughout, though not a conclusive indication in all cases. These indications exist in the will
before us, and, were it necessary, they might be called in aid
of its construction; but, after all, little assistance is derived
from general rules in the construction of a will. The intent of
a testator is to be sought in the instrument itself. In making
it he does not often have in mind any particular rules of construction applied to other wills. He uses those expressions
which he supposes convey his own thought and wishes.
Turning, then, to the will before us, the first thing noticeable
is that the direction to sell was positive, and that it comprehended all the estate The testator must have known that

Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN V. HILTON.

his personal property was largely insufficient to pay his debts,
funeral expenses, and the pecuniary legacies he proposed to
give. Yet his order was, not to sell so much of his real estate
as might be necessary for satisfying debts and certain legacies,
not that what should prove lacking of personalty should be
supplied from sales of realty, but ill was directed to be sold,
whether necessary for the payment of legacies or not; and in
the direction he recognized the interest of the residuary legatee
as fully as he did the interests of any other legatee therein.
The executors were required to sell on such terms and conditions as, in their judgment, might seem best for the interests
of all concerned in the will. The residuary legatee was one of
those concerned. Why consult his interest, if, as a beneficiary
under the will, he had no concern in the sale, if by virtue of
the legacy to him he was to have no portion of the proceeds
of the sale, and if what remained after payment of the legacies
prior to his was intended to continue realty, and descend under
the intestate laws?
The will further directed that the proceeds of the sale, i. e. the
whole proceeds, should be divided in the manner and proportions first in the will named, written, and stated, as far as the
amount realized would allow. It is not quite clear what was
meant by this direction: but it rather seems the intent was, that,
if the sum for which the property might be sold should prove
insufficient to pay all the legacies in full, they should be paid
in the order named; that is, that the legatee first named should
be first paid, and so on, in the order in which the different beneficiaries were mentioned, down to the residuary legatee. If this
is not so, the word "first" can have no significance; and then
the testator intended that legacies to his children and grandchildren should abate ratably with his gifts to strangers: but,
however this may be, it was a fund arising from the sale of the
testator's whole estate that was to be divided among legatees;
and the residuary bequest to the son, Carberry S. Hilton, was
as truly a legacy as any one of the gifts that preceded it. We
can discover nothing, therefore, in this clause of the will that
indicates an intent to effect only a partial conversion, or merely
a conversion for the payment of those legacies which preceded
the residuary beqaest. On the contrary, the more reasonable

GIVEN v.

HILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

and the true interpretation, we think, is that the testator meant
to direct a complete conversion, to all intents, of his entire property into per;ozal estate. If so, the residuary bequest, even if
it was only a legacy of his personal estate, carried to the legatee
not only that which was personalty at his death, but that which
by the conversion he ordered became personalty.
But it is not to be admitted as certain that the subject of tho
residuary bequest was personal property alone. Certainly the
bequest is not an ordinary gift of the residue of personalty.
Its phraseology is very peculiar. Were it not for the enumeration of "moneys, stocks, judgments, notes, household furniture,
and all personal effects of every description" (most of which,
if not all, may have been the product of the sales of the real
estate ordered to be sold), the residuary clause, beyond doubt,
would be broad enough to carry real estate, as well as all personalty. It is doubtless true that in the construction of wills,
as well as of statutes, where certain things are enumerated, and
a more general description is coupled with the enumeration,
that description is commonly understood to cover only things
ejusdem generis with the particular things mentioned. This is
because it is presumed the testator had only things of that class
in mind; but this rule of construction rests on a mere presumption, easily rebutted by any thing that shows the larger subject
was in fact in the testator's view. In the present case, it is
quite plain the testator had in mind all his estate, whether
realty or personalty, when he made the disposition of the residue. Indeed, he must have had his real estate, or the proceeds
of his sale, mainly in view; for, as we have said, he knew that
his personal estate would be exhausted by the payment of debts
and prior legacies. And this appears in the language he used.
He gave unto his "kind and affectionate son" all the rest and
residue of his estate of which he might die seised or possessed,
not otherwise devised and bequeathed (enumerating some species
of personal effects), and all personal effects of every description,
not otherwise disposed of by the will. This included not only
that which he possessed, namely, personalty, but also that of
which lie was seised, - his realty. The form of his expression
denotes that he had before his mind at the time alike every
thing that was real and every thing that was personal; and, in

Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN V. HILTON.

making the bequest, he used the most comprehensive language
which could have been adopted.
The residuary gift, therefore, ought not, in view of the whole
will, to be construed as embracing only the remainder, if any,
of that which was personalty at the death of the testator. Its
scope was larger. It embraced all of the testator's estate, both
realty and personalty, not devised or bequeathed by the preceding dispositions of the will.
This construction is fortiied by another consideration. Carnerry S. Hilton, the residuary legatee, was a favorite son of the
testator. This appears from the manner in which he is more
than once spoken of in the will. No other pecuniary legacy is
given to him; and it cannot be believed that his father intended,
by his residuary bequest, to make to him a barren gift, and
leave a portion of his estate to descend under the intestate
laws.
We conclude, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the District erred in its construction of the will and in the decree
made, so far as it was ordered that any portion of the residue
of the testator's estate, after the payment of his debts and of
the legacies prior to that given to the residuary legatee, should
be equally divided among the heirs, and in not decreeing that
the whole of the estate, except the lot devised, both real and
personal, after the payment of those debts and legacies, passed,
under the residuary clause, to Carberry S. Hilton.
Decree reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to
enter a decree in accordancewith this opinion.

