Movius -V.ARTHUE.
Movius v.

[Sup. Ct.

ARTH-E.

1. The act of Congress, approved June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 230), does not repeal the
provisions in the acts of March 2, 1861 (12 id. 189), Aug. 5, 1861 (id. 293),

and July 14,1862 (id. 655), imposing duties on japanned, patent, or enamelled
leather or skins.
2. It is a general rule in the construction of revenue statutes, that specific provisions for duties on a particular article are not repealed or affected by the
general words of a subsequent statute, although the language is sufficiently
broad to cover that article.
3. The expression "not herein otherwise provided for," in the act of June 6,1872,
supra, has reference to the provisions of that act, and not to those of some
previous act.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is an action by Joseph Movius, surviving partner of the
firm of F. Wigand & Co., to recover $172.39 being the amount
of certain import duties alleged to have been unlawfully demanded and collected from them by the defendant in error, as
the collector of the port of New York.
Between Aug. 1 and Dec. 81, 1872, Wigand & Co. imported
from foreign countries into the port of New York, and duly
entered at that custom-house, several invoices of "varnished
calf-skins," and a further invoice of goods, designated therein
as "varnished cow-skins."
The collector of customs, under the classification of "patent,
japanned, or enamelled leather or skins of all kinds," in the acts
of March 2, 1861, sect. 22, and July 14, 1862, sect. 13, imposed
and collected on all the said goods a duty at thirty-five per
cent, granting thereon the reduction of ten per cent, provided
by sect. 2 of the act of June 6, 1872, for "leather not otherwise
herein provided for." Wigand & Co., claiming that the goods
were dutiable at twenty per cent only under the provisions of
sect. 1 of the act of June 6, 1872, for "upper leather of all other
kinds, and dressed and furnished skins of all kinds not herein
otherwise provided for," duly protested, and appealed to the
Secretary of the Treasury, who sustained the decision of the
collector. This action was then brought.
The court below found for the collector, whereupon the case
was removed here.

Oct. 1877.1

Movius v.

ARTHUR.

Mir. Edward Hartley for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case arises upon the construction of the
revenue acts of the United States, there being no disputed
questions of fact.
By the twentieth section of the act of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat.
189, it is enacted as follows: MR. JUSTICE Hum-T

"From and after the day and year aforesaid there shall be leviec,
collected, and paid a duty of twenty per cent on the importation
of the articles hereinafter mentioned and embraced in this section;
that is to say, . . . leather tanned, bend or sole, leather upper, of

all kinds except tanned calf-skins, which shall pay twenty-five per
cent ad valorem, . . . skins tanned and dressed of all kinds."
"SECT. 22. From and after the day and year aforesaid there shall
be levied, collected, and paid a duty of thirty per cent on the importation of the articles hereinafter mentioned and embraced in this
section; that is to say, japanned, patent, or enamelled leather or

skins of all kinds, . . . manufactures and articles of leather, or of

which leather shall be a component part, not otherwise provided
for."
By the act of Aug. 5, 1861, sect. 2, id. 293, it is enacted:"From and after the day and year aforesaid there shall be levied,
collected, and paid on the importation of the articles hereinafter
mentioned the following duties; that is to say,

. . .

on sole and

bend leather, thirty per cent ad valorem."
By the thirteenth section of the act of July 14, 1862, id. 555
-557, it is enacted: "From and after the day and year aforesaid, in addition to the
duties heretofore imposed by law on the articles hereinafter mentioned, there shall be levied, collected, and paid on the goods, wares,
and merchandise enumerated and provided for in this section, imported from foreign countries, a duty of five per cent ad valorem.
"Japanned, patent, or enamelled leather or skins of all kinds.
"Leather tanned of all descriptions.
"Manufactures and articles of leather, or of which leather shall
be a component part, not otherwise provided for.
"Morocco skins."
VOL. V.

10

MovIus v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct,

By the act of June 6, 1872, 17 id. 230, it is provided as
follows: "SECT. 1. On and after the first day of August, 1872, in lieu of
the duties heretofore imposed by law on the articles hereinafter
enumerated or provided for, imported from foreign countries, there
shall be levied, collected, and paid the following duties and rates
of duties; that is to say,"On bend or belting leather, and on Spanish or other sole leather,
fifteen per cent ad valorem. On calf-skins, tanned or tanned and
dressed, twenty-five per cent ad valorem. On upper leather of all
other kinds, and on skins dressed and finished, of all kinds not
herein otherwise provided for, twenty per cent ad valorem. On all
skins for morocco, tanned but unfinished, ten per cent ad valorem.
"'SECT. 2. On and after the first day of August, 1872, in lieu of
the duties imposed by law on the articles in this section enumerated,
there shall be levied, collected, and paid on the goods, wares, and
merchandise in this section enumerated and provided for, imported
from foreign countries, ninety per cent of the several duties and
rates of duty now imposed by law upon said articles severally, it
being the intent of this section to reduce existing duties on said

articles ten per cent of such duties; that is to say, . . . on all

leather not herein otherwise provided for, and on all manufactures
of skin, bone, ivory, horn, and leather, except gloves and mittens,
and of which either of said articles is the component part of chief
value."
The plaintiff in error contends that the words "skins dressed
and finished, of all kinds not herein otherwise provided for,"
in the act of 1872, repeals the provision imposing duties on
"japanned, patent, or enamelled leather or skins," in the acts
of 1861 and 1862. The collector of the port of New York held
otherwise, and compelled him to pay duties according to the
provisions of the latter acts. He made such payment under
protest, and in this action seeks to recover from the collector
the sums thus required to be paid.
It is a general rule, in the construction of revenue statutes,
that specific provisions for duties on a particular article are not
repealed or affected by the general words of a subsequent statute, although the language is sufficiently broad to cover the
article first mentioned.
Thus, an act of 1861, which exempted from duty singing-

Oct. 1877.]

Movius v. ARTHUR.

birds, land and water fowls, was held not to be repealed by an
act imposing a duty of twenty per cent "on all horses, sheep,
and other live animals." Reiche v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162.
So, in Homer v. The Collector, 1 id. 486, where a specific duty
was imposed upon almonds, eo nomine, it was held that almonds
were not included within the general terms of a subsequent
statute providing a duty on dried fruit, although, in popular
language, almonds came within the description.
Patent leather, no doubt, is finished skin; but every finished
skin is not patent leather. When a calf-skin is tanned and
dressed, that is, softened by the application of some lubricating
substance, shaven or cleaned, and then blacked, it is said to be
finished. To make it patent leather, it requires another process;
to wit, that of varnishing. While all patent leathers are finished
skins, it is quite clear that all finished skins are not patent leather.
This was no doubt well known to the Congress passing the laws
we have quoted, and we can hardly suppose that they meant to
include the particular subjects under the general designation.
The expression "not herein otherwise provided for," in the
act of 1872, means provided for by the act in which the words
occur, and not by some previous act. Smyjthie v. Fiske, 23 id.
374.
We find, in examining the statutes imposing duties on foreign importations, that, generally, the highest duty is imposed
on the most expensive articles of the same class, and that arti.
cles of luxury are taxed higher than those of necessity. In
regard to the particular article of japanned leather, strictly
an article of luxury, used by the rich only, we find that Congress has usually imposed upon it a higher duty than it has
imposed on ordinary leather, an article of strict necessity for
the purpose of clothing, and of almost equal necessity in the
mechanic arts. It was only during the years of the war, 1861
and 1862, that, for some temporary purpose, this rule was suspended. The following is an illustration: Act of 1857, 11 Stat. 192.
Sole leather ....
..........
. 15 per cent, p. 192.
Upper leather ...
.........
15 ,
,
Patent leather (japanned) .......
.. 19 ,, , pp. 192, 193.
Calf-skin itill included in upper leather,

"[Sup. Ot.

.!
....
0 25"
Movius'v.

ARTHLR.

Act of 1861, 12 id. 179.

Sole leather . .
Upper leather .
Calf-skin . . .
Patent leather
Sole leather .
Upper leather
Calf-skins.
.
Patent leather

. . . . . . . 30 per cent, p. 189.
. . 30 ,
80 ,

. .

. p. 192.

Act of 1861, id. 292,
S.30 per cent, p. 293.
p. 189.
20
3)
. . . . . . . 25 ,,
p. 192.
....
. . •. 80
21

Sole leather .
Upper leather
Calf-skins .
Patent leather

Act of 1862, id. 548.
. . . . . . . 85 per cent, p. 556.
. . . . . . 25 ,
.
.80

. . . . . . . 85

The act of 1872 under consideration. As construed by the collector and by the court below.
Sole leather . . ........
15 per cent.
Upper leather
....
20 1 . 1
Calf-skins. . .
. . . . . .
25
.
.
.81
,, ...
,,
Patent leather
Sole leather
Upper leather
Calf-skins .
Patent leather

Revised Statutes, p. 481.
........
15 per cent.
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

20 ,,

.1,

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

25

.

.

. .

.S. .

.

85,,

11

,

The course of legislation is in harmony with the construction
of the collector, while it is quite at variance with that of the
ilaintiff. The plaintiff's construction imposes a duty of twentyfive per cent on calf-skins simply, and only twenty per cent
on the more elaborate and expensive article of patent leather,
while that of the collector taxes calf-skins twenty-five per cent,
and patent leather thirty-one and a half per cent.
The plaintiff insists further, that all finished skins are dutiable under.the act of 1872,.and thazt, as pateit leathers are not
there named specifically, they are dutiable as "finished skins."
This is the question already examined, and we are of the
opinion that, as patent leather had been previously specifically

Oct. 1877.]

KNOTE V. UNITED STATES.

provided for, such duty was not intended to be altered by the
general words of the act of 1872. The ruling of the circuit
judge upon this principle was sound, and the judgment rendered in conformity therewith must be affirmed; and it i
"o ordered

KNOTE V. UXITED STATES.
1. The general pardon and amnesty granted by President Johnson, by proclamation, on the 25th of December, 1868, do not entitle one receiving their bene
fits to the proceeds of his property, previously condemned and sold under
the confiscation act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), after such proceeds
have been paid into the treasury of the United States.
2. Whilst a full pardon releases the offender from all disabilities imposed by the
offence pardoned, and restores to him all his civil rights, it does not affect
any rights which have vested in others directly by the execution of the
judgment for the offence, or which have been acquired by others whilst that
judgment was in force. And if the proceeds of the property of the offender
sold under the judgment have been paid into the treasury, the right to them
has so far become vested in the United States that they can only be recovered by him through an act of Congress. Moneys once in the treasury can
only be withdrawn by an appropriation by law.
3. To constitute an implied contract with the United States for the payment of
money upon which an action will lie in the Court of Claims, there must have
been some consideration moving to the United States, or they must have received the money charged with a duty to pay it over; or the claimant must
have had a lawful right to it when it was received, as in the case of money
paid by mistake. No such implied contract with the United States arises
with respect to moneys received into the treasury as the proceeds of property
forfeited and sold under that act.

from the Court of Claims.
The petition of the claimant alleged that he was the owner
of certain described personal property in West Virginia, which
was seized and libelled by the authorities of the United States
on the alleged ground of his treason and rebellion; that, by a
decree of the District Court for that district, the property was
condemned and forfeited to the United States, and sold; and
the net proceeds of the sale, amounting to the sum of $11,000,
were paid into the treasury of the United States, the proceedings for its condemnation and sale having been taken under
the t-onfiscation act of July 17, 1862; that subsequently, by
APPEAL

