Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. v. STEWART.

general history of the art to assail the validity of a patent or
to restrain its construction. The door is then opened to the
plaintiff to resort to the same kind of evidence in rebuttal; but
he can never go beyond his claim. As patents are procured
ex parte, the public is not bound by them, but the patentees
are. And the latter cannot show that their invention is broader
than the terms of their claim; or, if broader, they must be held
to have surrendered the surplus to the public.
The construction which we have felt bound to give to the
patent obviates the necessity of expressing any opinion upon
the other point made by the court below, namely, that the
patents only covered the use of the chords in question in truss
bridges, and not the making of such chords, which latter is all
that the defendant company is shown to have done.
-Decreeaffirmed.

RAILWAY CO:MPANY V. STEWART.
1. The court, in construing the contract between the pa;ties to this suit, holds
that the company is not bound to deliver the stipulated new bonds until
all the construction bonds which are still outstanding shall be surrendered
to it, or due proof made of the loss of such as cannot be produced, and
adequate security offered to indemnify the company against liability to any
adverse claimant.
2. The parties in interest will then be entitled to a performance of the contract
by the company, notwithstanding a decree by consent and in part performance of the contract has been rendered by the District Court of the first
judicial district of the State of Kansas, sitting within and for the county of
Leavenworth, directing a cancellation of the construction bonds and a discharge of the mortgage securing them.
8. The court calls attention to the irrelevant matter and useless repetitions with
which the record in this case is incumbered; and, while reversing the decree
below, adjudges that the parties pay their respective costs in this court, and
refers to rule 52 in admiralty as containing suggestions which may serve
as an appropriate guide in making up the record in a case at law or in
equity.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The case was argued by Jir.Jokn P. Usher for the appellant,
and submitted on printed arguments by Mr. 3Aatt. . Carpenter and Hr'. Joseph B. Stewart for the appellee.

280

RAILWAY CO. V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. Cmm JUSTICE WAITEm delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a bill in equity filed by Stewart as complainant,
Aug. 20, 1868, against the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
Eastern Division (now known as the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company), the National Iechanics' Bank of Baltimore, the
National Union Bank of Maryland, and the National Exchange
Bank of Baltimore, but dismissed by the complainant as against
the several banks made defendants, Nov. 28, 1871. The case,
as stated in the bill, is substantially as follows: On the 6th of January, 1866, there were outstanding four
hundred and fifty land-grant bonds and six hundred and forty
construction bonds of the railroad company, upon which it
claimed that it was not liable. All the land-grant bonds and
three hundred and ninety of the construction bonds were owned
or controlled by Thomas 0. Durant. Stewart owned or represented the remaining two hundred and fifty construction bonds.
A suit had been commenced by the company, and was then
pending, in one of the State courts of Kansas, against Durant,
Stewart, and others, the object of which was to obtain a cancellation of the construction bonds, and the mortgage executed
to secure their payment. There were also other matters in dispute between Durant and the company, and between him and
John D. Perry, its president. In this state of affairs, Stewart,
on the 6th of January, 1866, proposed in writing to the company, through its attorney, to surrender all the land-grant and
the construction bonds held or represented by Durant or himself, and procure a release by Durant of all actions and righta
of action which he had or might have against John D. Perry
or the company, or any of its officers, so that its mortgages
might be cancelled, if it would in exchange therefor execute
and deliver to him, for the parties interested, five hundred of
its bonds of $1,000 each, secured by a first lien on the first one
hundred and fifty miles of the lands west of Fort Riley, granted
by Congress to aid in the construction of its road. It is then
alleged that, in the early part of February following, this proposition was accepted, with some slight modifications, and that
the company agreed to take up the old bonds and deliver the
proposed new ones in exchange; that Durant, in pursuance of

Oct;. 1877.]

RAILWAY

CO. v. STEWART.

this agreement, executed the proper release, surrendered his
bonds, and received in exchange his stipulated portion of the
new securities; that certain persons owning some of the bonds
represented by Stewart at the time of the contract accepted the
terms of the settlement, and made the contemplated exchange;
that he, Stewart, was the owner of one hundred and fifty-four
of the construction bonds, for which there still remained in the
hands of the company one hundred and twenty-six of the new
issue, to be exchanged upon surrender in accordance with the
terms of the settlement, but that he was unable to produce his
bonds, as they were in the possession of the banks that were
made defendants, and they refused to give them up. He insisted, however, that the bonds were his, and that they were no
longer binding upon the company. He accordingly prayed that
the company might be required to deliver to him the bonds
which were held for exchange under the terms of the agreement of settlement.
The company answered, denying substantially all the material allegations in the bill.
From the testimony, it appears that Stewart made the proposition set forth in his bill, and that it led to an interview
between Durant and the officers of the company, at Philadelphia, early in February, 1866, at which Stewart was present,
representing his own interests. Durant objected to the terms
proposed by Stewart; and, after some negotiation, a settlement
was finally agreed upon, by which the bonds held by all the parties were to be surrendered, and in consideration thereof the
company was to pay Durant $100,000 in cash and notes, and
execute and deliver four hundred new bonds of $1,000 each,
secured by mortgage on the lands of the company lying on the
first one hundred miles of its road west of Fort Riley. As part
of the settlement, also, the company was authorized to enter in
the suit pending in the State court of Kansas a decree directing the cancellation of the construction bonds and the discharge
of the mortgage securing them.
Pursuant to this arrangement, the company executed its new
bonds and mortgage; and, during the latter part of April, 1866,
Durant surrendered his old bonds, and received the part of the
new issue which, as between him and the holders of the other

RAILWAY CO. v. STEWART.

[Sup. G .

construction bonds, it was stipulated he should have. Alexander Hay, also, who owned seventy-six of the bonds represented
by Stewart in the settlement, made his exchanges; and since
the commencement of this suit twenty more have been taken
up by the company. This leaves outstanding one hundred and
fifty-four bonds, claimed by Stewart, which were not exchanged
at the same time with the others, because of. his inability to
control them for that purpose. The parties actually holding
them did present them, but on account of his objections the
exchange was not made.
In accordance with the terms of the settlement, a decree, cancelling the construction bonds and discharging the mortgage,
was entered in the suit pending in the State court.
None of the one hundred and fifty-four bonds have been surrendered to the company, but deliveries of new bonds held for
exchange have in some cases been made upon the order of Stewart
without a corresponding surrender.
Fifty of the old bonds were lost, and cannot be produced.
Hamilton G. Fant, claiming to be the owner of them, filed with
the master in this cause the evidence of his title, and of their
loss, and asks that their distributive share of the new bonds
may be given to him. Of the remainder there were presented
to the master by W. A. Coit, five; H. G. Fant, four; R. F. Baldwin, sixty; George E. Jarvis, five. The other thirty are claimed
by William E. Edmonds, and they have never been presented
to the master.
Each of the persons presenting the bonds claims them eithei
as owner or as pledgee; and Fant claims to have an assignment
of the whole, as security for moneys loaned to Stewart, or for
obligations incurred on his account. Stewart disputes the
claims of all the different holders, including Fant, and insists
that he is entitled to a decree awarding to him all the new
bonds now remaining with the company, to carry out the settleinent as finally concluded.
None of the persons filing the bonds with the master, or asking an order of distribution in their favor, are parties to the
suit, to such an extent or in such a manner that their title can
be litigated and determined here. They come in only for the
purpose of surrendering their bonds and receiving in exchange

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. V. STEWART.

their respective shares of the fund produced by the settlement.
Stewart may resist their recovery ; but he cannot by their presentation of the bonds secure the possession and control of them,
and then upon the surrender claim for himself the stipulated
equivalent in exchange.
The company is not bound to make the exchange until the
surrender is perfected. It is not required to litigate titles for
Stewart, - that he must do for himself. When that is done, if
he secures the control of the bonds, he may be entitled to call
upon the company to carry out its contract of exchange. But
until then, he is in no condition to insist upon performance.
The contract on the part of the company was to make the
exchange upon the surrender of all the old bonds. It is not
required to deal with the individual owners separately, but
only to accept the surrender of all, and give the new bonds in
exchange. So far as it has gone, however, it is bound by what
it has done; but it is not under obligations to go further in that
direction. Until, therefore, Stewart surrenders all the remaining outstanding bonds, or makes satisfactory proof of their loss,
and furnishes security against the further liability of the company to any other holder, he cannot require it to give him the
balance of the new bonds which it still holds for exchange.
The decree of the State court having been entered by consent, and in part performance of the agreement of settlement,
is not a bar to a suit for an appropriation of the fruits of
the settlement. The outstanding bonds are still binding upon
the company to the extent that may be necessary to enable the
owners of them to secure the benefit of the consideration agreed
to be paid for their cancellation. The present holders, though
not parties to the suit in which the decree was entered, are at
liberty to treat the settlement as made for their benefit, and to
act accordingly.
The view we have taken of the case makes it unnecessary to
inquire whether the contract stated in the bill is the same as
that which has been proven. The evidence as it stands is not
sufficient to entitle Stewart to recover upon either. Both that
averred and that proved require him to surrender his bonds for
cancellation before he can demand the new ones in exchange.
That he is unable to do; and, consequently, at this time he is not

RAILWAY CO. v. STEWART.

[Sup. Ot.

entitled to the decree he asks. It is unnecessary to determine
what would be his rights if all the adverse claimants were in
court, so that a decree could be entered which would settle
their conflicting claims as between each other, and protect the
company against further liability. They are not here, and any
decree rendered against them in favor of Stewart would not be
binding upon them without their consent.
This disposes of the case; but we feel it our duty to call attention to the very unsatisfactory manner in which the record
has been made up and sent here for the purposes of this appeal.
It contains nearly twelve hundred printed pages, and is full of
irrelevant matter and useless repetitions. All that is material
for the proper presentation of the cause might easily have been
put into one-fourth the space. It opens with a copy of the bill,
occupying seventeen pages; and immediately following this is a
certified copy of the same bill, attached to the return of the service of a subpoena upon one of the corporation defendants, as to
which the suit was subsequently dismissed. The proposition
made by Stewart on the 6th of January, 1866, and which is
claimed to have been the basis of the contract sued upon, is
copied no less than ten times, and an affidavit of his, which
occupies seventeen pages, is copied three times within a space
of seventy pages. These are but specimens of the gross irregularities with which the record abounds. In addition to this, the
matter is not well arranged, and the index is almost useless.
We have long suffered from the want of attention of parties, or
their counsel, and the incapacity, not to say dishonesty, of clerks
below in matters of this kind, and deem this a proper occasion
for applying the remedy for such neglect or abuse. We are at a
loss to determine whether the complainant or defendant is mosl
to blame for the irrelevant matter which has been introduced
into this case; but it is clearly the duty of the party who takes
an appeal to see to it that the record is properly presented here.
Care should be taken that costs are not unnecessarily increased
by incorporating useless papers, and that the case is presented
fairly and intelligently. While, therefore, the decree in this
case will be reversed, each party will be required to pay his
own costs in this court. We shall not hesitate to apply the
same remedy hereafter in cases where the circumstances are

Oct. 1877.]

CAMBUSTON V. UNITED STATES.

such as to require it. Under rule 24, par. 3, the court below
will be required, when the mandate goes down, to tax the costs
of the transcript of the record below as part of the costs in the
case. That court will then have an opportunity, if it sees fit,
of making an order in respect to the amount its clerk shall be
permitted to charge.
It is not easy to prescribe by rule what a record in all cases
shall contain or what shall be excluded; but rule 52 in admiralty contains suggestions which may serve as an appropriate
guide in cases at law or in equity.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree dismissing
the bill without prejudice of the right of the complainant or
the holders of the construction bonds, which are the subject
of the action, to commence another suit to enforce the alleged
contract of settlement, whenever they shall be in a condition
so to do. Each party to these appeals is required to pay his
own costs in this court; and it is
So ordered.

CAMBUSTO

V. UNITED STATES.

The District Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, under an act entitled "An
Act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California,"
approved March 3, 1857 (9 Stat. 631), rendered a decree Nov. 12, 1859,
rejecting the claim of A. He died Jan. 22, 1869, and his executrix was, by
an order of the court entered April 3, 1875, permitted to become the party
claimant of the land. She thereupon moved for a new trial and the reversal
of the decree. The motion was overruled; and, on the same day, an appeal
was allowed her from the decree and from the order refusing a new trial.
Held, 1. That the appeal from the decree was not taken in time. 2. That no
appeal lies from the order refusing a new trial.
MOTION by the United States to dismiss an appeal from
the District Court of the United States for the District of
California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The motion was submitted on printed arguments by the
Solicitor-General for the United States, and by Miir. .Edmon(
L. Goold for the appellant.

