HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. Ot.

circuit judge, that upon the facts stated the defendant was
entitled to a verdict and judgment in its favor, was correct,
and the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

HATCH V.

CODDINGTOI.

1. A general power conferred upon the agent of a railroad company to borrow
money on its behalf, in such sums, for such length of time, and at such a rate
of interest as lie may think proper, and to purchase iron rails, locomotives,
machinery, &c., on such terms as he may deem advisable, and, in order so
to do, to make, execute, and deliver obligations, bills of exchange, contracts,
and agreements of the company, includes authority to give to the lender of
the money borrowed, or to the seller of the things purchased, the ordinary
securities.
2. Persons who deal with an agent before notice of the recall of his powers are
not affected by the recall.
8. Upon consideration of the'written evidence in this case, the court holds, 1. That
the contract entered into April 21, 1859, between the defendant and the
Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, by Edmund Rice, its president,
was authorized by the resolution of the board of directors of that company,
passed July 13, 1858. 2. That the resolution of said board, passed May 13,
1859, was an acknowledgment that the contract was a binding obligation
upon the company.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This action was trover by Edwin A. C. Hatch against Thomas
B. Coddington for the conversion of forty-five Minnesota State
bonds. Each party claimed them under the Mlinnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, to whom they had, on the 3d of February, 1859, been issued by the State, under a provision of its
Constitution authorizing the issue of such bonds for the purpose

of expediting the construction of certain railroads.

The plaintiff claimed title by the following transfers, both
dated May 13, 1859:"For value received, we, the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Coinpany, hereby sell, assign, transfer, and set over to Selah Chamberlain
and his assigns forty-five bonds for $1,000 each, issued by the State
of Minnesota to us, and now in the hands of Thomas B. Coddington
& Co., of the city of New York, and authorize and empower him
to have and receive the same.

Oct. 1877.j

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

"In witness whereof, we have caused these presents to be signed
by our president, Edmund Rice, and attested by our secretary,
James W. Taylor, and our corporate seal to be thereto affixed, this
thirteenth day of May, in the year 1859.
"EDMUND RIcE, President.
[SEAL,.]
JAs W. TAYLOR, Secretary."
"Attest:
"For value received, I hereby assign, transfer, and set over unto
Edwin A. C. Hatch, the forty-five Minnesota State railroad bonds
of the denomination of $1,000 each, now in the hands of T. B. Coddington & Co., of the city of New York, and all my right, title, and
interest therein, being the bonds issued to the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Company, and transferred by said company to me.
" S. CHAMBEILAI."

The bonds had been deposited with Thomas B. Coddington
& Co., the defendant's firm, as security for the obligations of
a contract which they made with the company on the 21st of
April, 1859.
The plaintiff alleged that this contract had been executed by
Edmund Rice without authority, and only conditionally delivered, and that it consequently never took effect.
At the date of its execution, said Rice was president, Rensselaer R. Nelson was vice-president, and William H. Newton and
said Hatch were directors of the company.
The contract was negotiated by Newton in concert with Rice,
both being at the time in New York. As evidence of his authority to make the contract, Rice gave to Newton, to hand to
T. B. Coddington & Co., the charter of the company, copies
of legislative acts and of the provision of the constitution
authorizing the bonds, and also of the following resolution
of the board of directors of the company, passed July 13,
1858:"Whereas the interests of the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad
Company require that no default in the performance of the conditions
under which the credit of the State of Minnesota has been loaned
to this company shall occur, and that means shall be promptly provided, with the aid of said loan of State credit, to construct one
hundred miles of road at an early day, thereby vesting in the company the right to sell, unconditionally, three hundred and eightyfour thousand acres of land: Therefore,
VOL. V.

4

HIATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. (3t.

.Resolved That Edmund Rice, president of the Minnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, or any agent or agents duly appointed
by him in writing to execute the trusts and powers conferred by this
resolution, be, and are hereby, authorized and empowered, in pursuance of sect. 21 of the charter, to sell, loan, pledge, hypothecate,
or otherwise dispose of the first-mortgage bonds of the company
in conformity to the provisions of the trust mortgage deed of said
company at par, or any price less than par, and for such sum or
sums as to the said Rice or agents appointed by him shall appear
most for the interest of the company; and the said president, or
such agent or agents as he may appoint, is and are hereby authorized to borrow such sum or sums of money for such length of time
and for such rate of interest as to him or such agent or agents may
seem proper, for or on behalf of the company, and also to purchase
such quantity of iron rails, locomotives, cars, tenders, rolling-stock,
and machinery for such road, and upon such terms as he or such
agent or agents may deem advisable, and to make, execute, and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of said company, such obligations,
bills of exchange, contracts, and agreements, in writing, as will
enable him or such agent or agents to carry out the powers and
authority above conferred upon him or them, making monthly
reports to the board of his acts in the premises; all which acts thereunder done are hereby ratified and confirmed: -Provided,that the
whole amount of obligations to be incuiTed on behalf of the company under this resolution shall not exceed the sum of $1,750,000.
"A true copy from the minutes.
JAMrs W. TKYLOn, Secretary."Attest:
[L. s.]
The plaintiff also contended that, if originally sufficient, the
powers given by the resolution were withdrawn by the following resolutions of the executive committee of the directors,
pasted Jan. 23 and Feb. 3, 1859: "ST. PAuL, Jan. 23, 1859.
"At a meeting of the executive committee.
"On motion,
"Resolved, That R. R. Nelson, acting president of the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad Company, be authorized to make application
and receive from the governor $100,000 of the State bonds, which
said company are now entitled to.
".Resolved, That the acting president be instructed to appropriate
the $100,000 of the State bonds which the Minnesota and Pacific

Oct. 1877.]

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

Railrcad Company are now entitled to from the State to pay the
actual current expenses which have accrued up to date, and which
may hereafter accrue, including salaries of officers, interest of the
first-mortgage bonds of the company already disposed of, and other
incidental expenses.
"R. R. NELSON, Chairman.
"Wx. H. NEWTON, Secretary."

"ST. PAuL, Feb. 3,1859.
"At a meeting of the executive committee.
"1On motion,
"Resolved, That R. R. Nelson, as acting president of the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad Company, be, and is hereby, authorized to sell
all or any portion of the State bonds in his hands at such rates as
he may deem to the best interests of the company, and apply the
proceeds as heretofore directed by resolution of the executive committee, and any or all of said proceeds be placed to the credit of
R. R. Nelson, the vice-president of this company, for the benefit of
said company, as he may direct.
"R%. H. NERLSON, Chairman.
" Wi,. H. NEWTON, Secretary."

There was no evidence that these resolutions were ever
brought home to the defendant. The evidence as to the absolute delivery of the contract was conflicting, and took a wide
range. The contract provided for a purchase and sale of railroad iron, and an advance by T. B. Coddington & Co. of
$16,000 to the company, on its notes. The company was to
deposit as security eighty-five bonds; but it had in New York,
at the time the contract was executed, only the forty-five in
question.
The contract was made in duplicate, and signed at New York
on the part of the company by Rice, the president. At the
same time were signed three notes for the $16,000. Rice received one of the contracts, and a letter of credit authorizing
drafts for the $16,000; the other contract and the notes were
delivered to T. B. Coddington & Co. The bonds were delivered with the following letter: "NEW YoRK, 21st April, 1859.
"Messrs. T. B. CODDINGTON & CO.:
"DEAR SiRs,- In conformity with an agreement made with you

this day, I hand you, by Mr. William H. Newton, $45,000 of Min-

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

nesota State bonds, and will send you, without delay, a further
amount of $40,000 of like description of State bonds, as collateral'
and for negotiations, as per same agreement.
"I also hand you our three notes, bearing this date, at six
months, with interest at seven per cent, -one
for $6,000 and
two $5,000 each, in all $16,000, against which you will please
grant a letter of credit for $16,000, in favor of William H. Newton, stipulating that, on your receiving the remaining $40,000 of
bonds above referred to, you will accept drafts drawn by him at
one day's sight on you.
"I am, yours
respectfully,
" EDMUND RIOE,
"Pres. Minn. 6- Pac. R. R. Co."

Rice testified that he gave Newton the papers to be left with
T. B. Coddington & Co., but not to take effect unless ratified
by the board of directors, nor if Nelson bad disposed of the
forty bonds then supposed to be in his hands.
There was no evidence that any condition affecting the
delivery was brought home to the defendant or his firm. He
testified that the papers were exchanged absolutely, he being
represented by his clerk; and Newton testified that there was
no condition of any kind in reference to the delivery.
The contract, the three notes, the letter of credit, and the
letter undertaking to send forty more bonds were all executed
April 21, 1859. Rice and Newton at once telegraphed to Nelson, at St. Paul, "Interest on State bonds provided for, and
a thousand tons of iron purchased," and started for that place
the next day, where they .arrived on or before the 29th of
April. On that day and the next, and on the 6th, 9th, 10th,
11th, 12th, and 13th of May, they attended meetings of the
board.
On the 30th of April Rice wrote to defendant the following
letter, which was the first communication he sent after leaving
New York for St. Paul :
"OFFICE OF THE MINNESOTA & PACIC R. R. Co.,
"ST. PAUL, April 30, 1869.
"GENTLEMN, -I
found upon my arrival here that the acting

president of this company had disposed of the forty Minnesota State
bonds, which were to have been forwarded to you by the terms of

Oct 1877.J

.HATCHV. CODDINGTON.

the contract made between us in New York. You will perceive,
therefore, that it is impossible for the company to comply with its
undertaking. Some action of the board of directors will be had
upon the subject, of which I shall take pleasure in advising you at
the earliest moment.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"EDMUND RICE,

"Pres. Minn. J-Pac. 1?. R. Co."

"T. B.

CODDINGTON &

Co., New York."

The proceedings of the board do not show any action adverse to the contract as having been unauthorized, or as not
consummated.
On the 14th of May, 1859, the following communication was
addressed to Coddington & Co.: "OFFIOE

OF THE

& PACIFIC R. R. Co.
"ST. PAUL, May 14, 1859.

MIN1ESOTA

"Messrs. T. B.

CODDINGTON & CO.:
- YOU will please deliver to Messrs. Rice or William H.
Newton forty-five Minnesota State seven per cent bonds, of the
denomination of $1,000 each, now in your hands, issued by the
State to the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, said bonds
belonging to the railroad company.
"Very respectfully, yours,
11 GENTS,

"R. R.

NELSON,

"Acting Pres.M. 4- Pac. R. R. Co."
On the 17th, Rice wrote them, enclosing a copy of the follow
ing resolution of the board: " SECRETARY'S OFFICE, MIINNESOTA &

PACIFIC R.

R.

Co.

"At a meeting of the board of directors of the Minnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, held in St. Paul, May 13, 1859, the
following resolution was unanimously adopted :",Whereas circumstances have arisen in the affairs of this company whereby it has become impossible to comply with the terms
of the contract made by the president thereof, on behalf of the
company, with T. B. Coddington & Co., of the city of New York,
under date of April 21, 1859: Therefore,
"11Resolved,That William H. Newton, Esq., be, and he is hereby,
authorized to proceed to New York and procure a surrender of
said contract and a return of the forty-five Minnesota State bonds

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. Ot,

transferred to Messrs. T. B. Coddington & Co., upon such equitable
terms as may be agreed upon.'
"T. M. METCALF, Secretary."
[CORPORATE, SEAL.]
These papers and some subsequent correspondence were, without objection, received in evidence as bearing on the disputed
question whether the delivery was in fact conditional, and also
as showing, if it was, a ratification of the president's acts, and
a waiver of the condition.
The plaintiff requested the court to charge as matter of law
that there had been no ratification. The court refused so to
charge, but left the evidence of the conduct of the company
and its officers to the jury, with the instruction, however, requested by the plaintiff, that "to constitute ratification there
must have been a direct sanction of the contract by the board
of directors, or conduct, or acts, or a resolution or resolutions
inconsistent with any other supposition than an assent to such
contract by said board."
The court also left the evidence of the conduct of the company and its officers, after the date of the contract, to the jury,
as bearing "upon the question whether either of the conditions
. . . were impressed upon the contract, so as to make the delivery conditional and dependent upon the fulfilment of the
conditions . . . as having a proper bearing as evidence upon

the fact whether the condition was imposed."
To this instruction the plaintiff excepted.
The court also charged the jury that, under the resolution
of July 13, 1858, Rice had authority to make the contract of
April 21, 1859, and that that authority was not withdrawn
by the resolutions of Jan. 23 and Feb. 3, 1859; nor did those
resolutions derogate, detract from, or in any Inanner impair
the force and efficiency of said resolution of July 13, 1858.
The plaintiff excepted to this charge, and assigns it for error
here.
There was a verdict for the defendant; and, judgment having been rendered thereon, the plaintiff removed the case here.
The assignments of error not passed upon by the court are
omitted.
.Ur. . W. Stoughton for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. TWlliam
E.
Evarts and Ar. S. P. Nash, contra.

Oct. 1877.]

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

We concur with the Circuit Court in the opinion that Mr.
Rice was authorized by the resolution of the board of directors
of July 13, 1858, to make the contract with the defendant,
which it is claimed he made on the 21st of April, 1859. That
resolution was very broad. As appears from its preamble, it
aimed to provide, promptly, means for the construction of one
hundred miles of the company's railroad, and to guard against
default in the performance of the conditions upon which the
credit of the State had been loaned; and these aims were intended to be secured, in part, with the aid of the State loan,
that is, with the aid of the State bonds delivered to the company. The preamble, having avowed such purposes, was followed by a resolution which expressly conferred upon Mr.
Rice, the president of the company, several distinct powers.
The first was to sell or hypothecate the first-mortgage bonds of
the company (thereafter to be issued) for such sum or sums as he
might think for the interest of the company. A second power
given was to borrow money on behalf of the company in such
sums, for such length of time, and at such a rate of interest as
he might think proper. And, thirdly, he was empowered to
purchase iron rails, locomotives, machinery, &c., for the company, on such terms as he might deem advisable; and, to enable
him to carry out these powers and authority, he was empowered
to make, execute, and deliver obligations, bills of exchange,
contracts, and agreements of the company. It is difficult to
see what words would have been more comprehensive for the
grant of power to do every thing which, in the judgment of Mr.
Rice, was necessary or advisable, either for borrowing money
or purchasingpiron for the company. A general power to borrow money includes authority to give to the lender the ordinary securities for the sum borrowed. Among these are bonds,
notes, or acceptances, and collaterals. But the resolution
went further. It conferred power to make contracts and
agreements, such as would enable ir. Rice to borrow money
or to make purchases of railroad iron ; not merely contracts
of purchase, but contracts and agreements that might enable
him to effect a purchase. An engagement to give collaterals
as a secarity for money borrowed, or for the payment of a

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. Ot.

debt incurred for iron, is surely within the limits of such a
power. This disposes of the first question raised by the assignments of error. We hold that there is nothing in the agree
ment of April 21, 1859, transgressive of the power with which
the president of the company was clothed by the resolution of
the directors.
We are also of opinion that the power thus conferred was
not revoked or withdiawn by the subsequent resolutions of
Jan. 23 and Feb. 3, 1859. They made no reference to the
action of the board in 1858, or to any powers conferred by
that action upon the president of the company. Undoubtedly,
they conferred authority upon Mlr. Nelson, acting as president
of the company in the absence of the president, to dispose of
the bonds; but such authority was not inconsistent with the
concurrent existence of the like power in Rice. Two persons may
be employed separately to negotiate the sale or hypothecation of
bonds, and either may thus dispose of them. If a disposition
be made by one, of course the other will be unable to exercise
the power with which he was clothed; but, until a sale or
hypothecation is made, either may make it. Moreover, in this
case there is no evidence that knowledge of the resolutions of
Jan. 23 and Feb. 3, 1859, was ever communicated or intended
to be communicated to the defendant. The authority given to
Mr. Rice was exhibited to him. On its face it was a continuing authority, on which he had a right to rely until notified of
its revocation. Persons who deal with an agent before notice
of the recall of his powers are not affected by the recall. 2 Kent,
Com. 644, note; Fellows v. Steamboat Company, 38 Conn.
197 ; Tier v. Sampson, 35 Vt. 179; Horgan v.,Stell, 5 Binn.
(Pa.) 305. It follows, therefore, very plainly there was no
error in the refusal of the circuit judge to instruct the jury,
that, if the resolution of July 13, 1858, conferred upon Mr. Rice
authority to make the contract, the authority was withdrawn
by the resolutions of Jan. 23 and Feb. 3, 1859.
At the trial in the court below there was some evidence that
the contract set up as a defence by the defendant was not unconditionally delivered. The plaintiff alleged that when it left the
'hands of Mr. Rice, on its way to the defendant, after his signature,
two conditions accompanied it. One was that it should not be

Oct. 1877.]

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

binding, and that the delivery of the bonds should be inopera.
tive, unless the board of directors of the company, after being
advised thereof, should approve, ratify, and confirm it. The
other condition alleged was, that if forty of the bonds, making
up, with the forty-five deposited with the defendant, the eightyfive called for by the contract, had been disposed of at St. Paul
by the proper officer of the company who had them in charge,
the contract should not be binding. Whether such conditions
had been imposed was a question of fact properly submitted to
the jury, with the instruction that, if they had been, the contract
was not binding unless the company afterwards ratified and
adopted it. It therefore became a material inquiry in one
aspect of the case whether there had been such an adoption or
ratification; and the defendant asked the court to instruct the
jury that there had been no ratification by the railroad company,
and especially that a certain resolution of the company, adopted
May 13, 1859, and communicated to the defendant, was not a
ratification. The court declined to give such instructions, and,
we think, properly. We think the resolution referred to was
a plain acknowledgment that the contract made by Mr. Rice
with the defendant was binding upon the company, and, as it
was communicated to the defendant, it was notice to him that
the company acknowledged its obligation. In the resolution
and its preamble there is nothing which denies that the contract
to which it refers had been made, or asserts that no obligation had
been assumed. On the contrary, all its language is appropriate
to a contract perfected. It is an admission that the company
had confirmed and accepted it. It speaks of the contract as
made, not merely proposed, and asserts an impossibility to comply with its terms, not of an impossibility to enter into the engagement. It authorizes Newton to procure a surrender of the
contract and a return of the bonds, which it states had been
transferred to Coddington & Co. upon such terms as might be
agreed upon. All this is plain recognition of the contract as a
binding obligation, and an assertion of a wish to obtain a release from it. To say the least, it is inconsistent with any intent
to treat the contract as imperfect and inoperative. In view of
it, we think the court was justified in refusing to charge the
jury as requested; and, if there was error in the mode in which

58

McIRENRY

v,. LA SociTi. F ANgAISE, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

the question of ratification was submitted, it was error of which
the plaintiff cannot complain.
It is unnecessary to notice the other assignment of error, in
view of what we have said.
Judgment affirmed.

MoHr-muy v. LA SOcOTP FRNg ism D']IPAuG~mS.
1 Mortgagees who prove their debt in the bankruptcy proceedings against the
mortgagor become creditors of his general estate only for the balance of the
debt after deducting the value of the mortgaged property, to be ascertained

by agreement, sale, or in such other manner as the bankrupt court may
direct.
2. AMortgagees may, pursuant to leave of that court, institute a suit against the

bankrupt in another court for the foreclosure of his equity of redemption
and the sale of the mortgaged premises.

3. An assignee in bankruptcy is not required to take measures for the sale of
the mortgaged property of the bankrupt, unless its value ezceeds the
incumbrance.

to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
On the 18th of June, 1870, John McHenry, beingindebted to
a society known as La Soci6t6 Fran aise D'lEpargnes in the
sum of $14,000, made his promissory note for that amount, payable twelve months after date, and secured its payment by a
mortgage on certain property in the city of San Francisco, in
the execution of which his wife did not join. McHenry was,
March 20, 1872, duly adjudicated a bankrupt in the District
Court of the United States for the District of California, and on
the 14th of June following the society proved its debt before
the register. Aug. 15, 1872, proceedings in foreclosure were
commenced by the society in the District Court of the nineteenth judicial district of the State of California against the
assignee in bankruptcy, McHenry, his wife and other parties
claiming interests in the property. The assignee made no defence. McHenry and wife demurred, and, among other grounds,
set up the bankruptcy proceedings and the absence of leave
of the bankrupt court to commence the suit. Oct. 4, 1872,
application was made to the latter court for such leave; and,
the assignee having so consented in open court, the order was
ERROR

