16

NEW ORLEANS, ETC. CO. V. MONTGOMERY.

[Sup. Ct

which covers, in the terms of the two mortgages in suit, its engines, cars, and machinery, carries not only the cars, engines, and
machinery in existence at the date of the mortgage, but such as

take their place, or are subsequently added to them by the company, and are in existence at the time of the foreclosure. This
kind of property is necessarily undergoing constant wear and
consequent destruction ; and the mortgages in suit, so far as that

property is concerned, would have been of little value if their
lien did not extend to such as took its place, or was added to it
by the company. Pennocek v. Goe, 23 How. 117; Philadelphia,
Wilmington, & Baltimore B. B?. Go. v. TFoelpper, 64 Penn. St.

866; Phillipsv. Winslow, 18 B. Mon. (Ky.) 431.
We perceive no error in the rulings of the court below.
-Decree affirmed.

Mi. Ju STIC= HuT
its decision.

did not sit in this case, nor take part in

NEw ORLNASS CANAL AND BAa-=uG ComrPANY v. MONT_GOMIERY.
1. In the absence of proof to show when promissory notes were transferred by
the payee, the law presumes that they were, when under-due, taken in
good faith by the transferee, without notice of any infirmity attaching to
them, and le is entitled to the benefit of the deed of trust given to secure
them.
2. The trustee named in the deed is, like a mortgagee, a purchaser for value.
Both occupy the same ground with respect to notice, either actual or constructive, of any outstanding equities.
3. Where, therefore, the records of the proper office showed that in 1866, when
the deed was executed, there was no prior incumbrance upon the land,Held, that a party claiming under a deed executed and recorded in 1848,
which he alleges was intended to embrace the same land, but which misdescribes it, which misdescription was not asserted in any judicial proceeding, nor notice thereof given before action commenced by the holders of said
notes to enforce their trust, is not entitled to have his deed reformed against
their intervening rights.

APP-FA from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Ar. William A. _faury, and submitted on printed

Oct. 1877.]

NEw ORLEANS, ETC. CO. v. MONTGOMERY.

17

arguments by Mr. Philip Phillips and Mr. Thomas 1runton
for the appellants.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SwAr-E delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity. The appellants are the com.
plainants in the bill. The facts material to the detErmination
of tbe case lie within a narrow compass, and may be briefly
stated. There is no controversy about them.
On the 22d of May, 1866, the appellee, A. B. Montgomery,
was indebted to the firm of Estlin & Co., of New Orleans, in
the sum of $158,777.55. He made his sixty promissory notes
of that date, amounting in the aggregate to the sum named, all
drawn to his own order, and payable, respectively, one, two,
three, four, and five years from date, with interest until paid.
The maker indorsed them in blank, and secured them by a
deed of trust of certain lands therein described, situated in
Washington County, Mississippi. He delivered the notes so
indorsed and the deed of trust to Estlin & Co. They transferred the notes in the course of business to other parties.
Portions of them are held by each of the several complainants.
The bill was filed to enforce the deed of trust. It avers that
a part of the notes are outstanding in other hands, but that the
holders are unknown and cannot be ascertained. It sets forth
that it is filed for the benefit of such parties as well as the
complainants, and prays that the former may be permitted to
come in and prove their rights, and participate in the avails of
the decree.
The defendants in their answers set up another deed of trust,
executed by A. B. Montgomery, on the 13th of July, 1848, to
secure certain other liabilities of his therein set forth. The
lands covered by this deed of trust were described as in range
nine, while all those, except one tract embraced in the other
deed, were described as in range eight. With this exception,
the description in the earlier deed applied to the lands described in the later one. The defendants insisted that the
number of the range in the first deed was a mistake of the
scrivener who drew it, that the 7iumber was intended to be
eight instead of nine; and they insisted that the instrument
VOL. V.

2

18

NEw ORLEANS, ETC. CO. v. MONTGOMERY.

[Sup. Ct.

should be reformed accordingly, and that the liabilities intended to be secured by it should be made the first lien upon
those premises.

The court below decreed in conformity to

this view, and the appellants thereupon removed the case to
this court by appeal for review. There is neither allxgation
nor proof that the complainants or the other holders cf the
notes delivered to Estlin & Co. had any notice of the alleged
mistake when they took the paper, nor is there any aver.ment or proof of such notice to the trustee when the deed
was delivered. It is not shown by the proofs when the notes
were transferred by Estlin & Co., nor when they came into
the hands of the present holders. In the absence of such
proof, the law presumes they were taken under-due, in good
faith, and without, notice of any infirmity attaching to them.
Pinkcerton v. Bailey, 8 Wend. (N. Y.) 600; 2 Parsons on
Bills and Notes, 9. Estlin & Co., however, unquestionably so
took them in fact, and this protects the subsequent takers.
The deed of trust securing the payment of the no~es was art
incident, and accessory to them. The transfer of the notes
carried with it to tlhe transferees the benefit of the security.
The trustee in such cases, like a mortgagee, is a purchaser for
a valuable consideration. Both occupy the same ground with
respect to notice, actual and constructive. It is that of a
bona fide purchaser until the contrary is made to appear.

Carpenter v. Longan, 16 Wall. 271. Generally, the rules
which apply to legal apply also to equitable estates. Croxall
v. ,Serard, 5 Wall. 268. Here the law of notice as to the
trustee and ceestui que trust is the same.

Neither actual nor constructive notice to the trustee, nor to
Estlin & Co., nor to either of the other holders, in season to
have any effect, is shown.
There are other considerations belonging to the subject which
must not be overlooked.
When the notes and deed of trust were delivered, a thorough
examination was made in the proper office, to ascertain if there

was any prior incumbrance. None was found. In fact, nofie
existed. The prior deed described wholly different lands. On
the faith of this condition of things Estlin & Co. acted. The
misdescription in the prior deed was not asserted in any judi-

Oct. 1877.]

ADAMS V. NASHVILLE.

cial proceeding to which the trustee or any cestui que trust
under the later deed was a party until it was put forth in this
suit, which was instituted on the 7th of June, 1869, more than
twenty years after the mistake occurred. As between Montgomery, the grantor in the prior deed, and the cestuis que trust
under that deed, the deed might have been reformed, and
enforced as corrected. .Davenportv. Sovil's Heirs, 6 Ohio St.
459. But this cannot be done against the intervening rights
Trust Co. v.
of others acquired in good faith. Ohio Life
Urbana Insurance Co., 13 Ohio, 220.
Such a result would be contrary alike to the plainest principles of reason, justice, and the law.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
enter a decree andproceed in conformity to this opinion.
'

ADA s v. NASHVILLE.
1. The act of Congress, approved June 3, 1864 (13 Stat. 99), was not intended to
curtail the power of the States on the subject of taxation, or to prohibit the
exemption of particular kinds of property, but to protect the corporations
formed under its authority from unfriendly discrimination by the States in
the exercise of their taxing power.
2. People v. The Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, and Hepburn v. The Sclool Directors,
23 id. 480, cited and approved.
3. The Supreme Court of Tennessee having decided that the act of the legi,lature of that State, requiring that all personal property of every kind and
nature shall be listed and assessed for taxation, overrides and repeals the
previous ordinance of the city of Nashville exempting from municipal taA Ition certain city bonds, and brings them within the scope of general taxation,
that decision is binding upon this court.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.31r. Edward Baxter for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. . Baileyq, contra.
MR. JUSTiCE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error, stockholders in the Fourth National
Bank of Nashville, Tenn., filed their bill in the Chancery
Court of Davidson County in that State against the Mayor and

