Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE COMPANIES v. THOMPSON.

INSURANCE CoPAsIES v. THo!psox.
Certain insurance companies insured T. & Co. against loss or damage by fire
"'
upon whiskey, their own or held by them on a commission, including government tax thereon for which they may be liable." They were so liable
as sureties on the bond of the distiller in whose warehouse the whiskey was.
The whiskey belonged to them, and was destroyed by fire; and the amount
of the loss apart from the tax was paid by the companies. The tax was
not paid; and, suit having been brought against T. & Co. on their bond, the
companies, although thereunto requested, declined to defend it. Judgment
was rendered against T. & Co., who thereupon gave in due form a bond
which, under the laws of Kentucky, operated to satisfy the judgment; and
they brought this action against the companies for the amount thereof.
.Held,1. That the interest of T. & Co. in the whiskey, by reason of their liability to pay the government tax, was an insurable one. 2. That the policy
was intended to furnish indemnity against that liability, as well as to insure
the interest which, at the time of the loss, they had as owners of the whiskey.
8. That the companies are liable to them for the amount of the judgment so
rendered.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles W Jones and Mr. J. Hubley Ashton for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. G. C. Wharton, contra.

MAR. JUSTICED MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error recovered in the Circuit Court of

the United States for the District of Kentucky a joint judgment for :3,317.58 on a policy of insurance issued by The Germania Fire Insurance Company, The Hanover Fire Insurance
Company, The Niagara Fire Insurance Company, and The

Republic Fire Insurance Company, on whiskey in a distiller's
bonded warehouse. The distillery and the warehouse were
owned and conducted by George H. Dearen, but the spirits
were distilled for and owned by the defendants in error at the
time the policy

was issued.

They were

also sureties on

Dearen's distillery bond to the United States, and as such were
liable for the tax on the whiskey if not paid by Dearen, or
made out of the whiskey.

It will be thus seen that Thompson

& Walston had two distinct interests in the whiskey; namely,

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. THOMPSON.

[Sup. Cr.

the general ownership of it, and their liability for the tax on it
which Dearen had assumed to pay, and which, if he did not
pay, might fall upon them in either of two ways, - to wit, by a
seizure and sale of the whiskey for the tax by the government,
or by a suit on the bond on which they were sureties. The
policy, which was manifestly designed to protect both these
interests of the assured from loss or damage by fire, was for that
reason peculiar and special in its provisions. By its terms the
companies bind themselves to "insure Mlessrs. Thompson &
Co. against loss or damage by fire to the amount of $8,000,
for the term of one year, upon whiskey, their own or held by
them on a commission, including government tax thereon for
which they may be liable, contained in the log bonded warehouse of G. H. Dearen."
After the whiskey was burned, these companies paid their
share with others of the loss on the value of the whiskey apart
from the tax; but by the receipt which they took it was stated
that the claim for liability on account of tax remained undecided. Thompson & Co. were sued on their bond with Dearen
for this tax; and they notified the insurance companies of the
suit, and asked them to defend it, which was declined. Judgments were obtained in each case on the bonds, and Thompson
& Co. replevined the judgments. By this is meant that they
gave bail which operated as a stay of execution for the period
which the law of Kentucky allowed in such cases. The present action was brought by Thompson & Walston to recover
the amount of these judgments.
On the trial, evidence was given tending to show that before
the fire Walston had sold to his partner, Thompson, all his interest in the partnership, and that Hite Thompson bad become interested with the other Thompson in the business to the extent of
one-fifth. And, on the hypothesis that the jury believed this,
the counsel for the companies asked the court in several forms
to instruct the jury that plaintiffs could not recover. This
proposition was based on a provision in the policy that it should
be void "if the property be sold, or transferred, or any change
take place in title or possession, whether by legal process, or
judicial decree, or voluntary transfer or conveyance."
The refusal of the court to do so, and the charge of the court

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE COMPANIES v. THOMPSON.

to the effect that this change in regard to the ownership, if true,
did not defeat the right to recover the amount of the judgments
against plaintiffs for taxes, are the errors on which a reversal
is asked.
The argument of counsel on the effect of a mere change in
the title by one partner selling to another his interest in the
property insured, and the authorities presented on both sides,
are very able and full, and the decisions are conflicting. So,
also, the effect of the introduction of a new part-owner, in a
case like the present, where the possession and care of the
goods remain unchanged, are well considered; but in the view
we take of the case it is not necessary that this court should
decide these questions.
We are of opinion that a careful consideration of the facts
of this case, in their relation to some of the most elementary principles of the contract of insurance, will enable us to
dispose of it without much difficulty.
It is to be observed, that, whether insurance be against fire,
or marine loss, or loss of life, it is neither the property nor the
life that is insured. Nor does the contract propose or intend
to say that there shall be no destruction of the property or loss
of life. In point of fact, the obligation of the insurer is designed to come into operation after the loss either of property
or life has occurred, and to give compensation to some one interested in the life or the property, for the loss of that life or
injury to the property.
In regard to property this compensation is intended by the
fundamental principles of insurance to bear a direct relation to
the moneyed value of the interest which the party insured had
in the property. Where the only interest of the assured is the
full and perfect ownership of the property, that is the interest
insured; and the amount to be recovered on the policy of insurance is that full value or such sum less than that as the insurer stipulates to be liable for.
But it often occurs that the interest of the party insured is
not that of full ownership. His interest may be that of a
trustee, or executor, or some other representative character, in
which case the recovery will be in accordance with the nature
of the contract. The policy before us is a striking illustration

iNSURANCE COMPANIES v. THOMPSON.

[Sup. Ct.

of this. The interest of the plaintiffs in the whiskey which is
insured is threefold,- their own, or held on a commission, and
the government tax, for which they may be held liable. .It
the makers of this policy intended to insure no other interest
of Thompson & Co. in the whiskey than their proprietary
interest, the interest which at the time of the loss they bad as
owners of the whiskey, the enumeration of the two other interests was useless and misleading. The facts already stated
show that they had another interest; and, since they insured it,
it must be presumed that it was known to the insurers. The
whiskey which they owned was liable to the government for a
tax ; and this Dearen was primarily liable for and had promised
to pay, but, if he did not, the whiskey could be sold for it.
They had also become bound with him on his bond for the
payment of this tax. In the event of the whiskey being destroyed by fire, the danger of their personal liability was
greatly increased. They were, therefore, right in wishing to
be secured against this loss also, if the whiskey was burnt. It
is impossible to give any other construction to the policy than
that the company agreed to furnish this indemnity. The language, when brought into relation with the conceded facts of
the case, admits of no other.
This interest was an insurable interest, as much as freights
at sea or profits in an adventure. The whiskey stood between
them and their loss. The whiskey when in the warehouse
was loaded with this tax. It would sell for as much less as
the tax, unless the tax was paid. So long as it was in the
warehouse, plaintiffs were not liable for the tax. The moment
it was lost they became liable. This was a fair subject of
insurance. Pireman's Fire Insurance Co. v. Powell, 13 B.
Mon. (Ky.) 311; Gordon v. Massachusetts Fire & Marine
Insurance Co., 2 Pick. (Mass.) 249; Bohrbach v. Germania
Fire Insurance Co., 62 N. Y. 47.
In regard to this interest, Walston had never parted with it.
His sale of the partnership interest did not release him from
his liability on Dearen's bonds; nor did the subsequent purshase of Hite Thompson of one-fifth interest in the whiskey
nave that effect, or destroy Walston's interest to that extent in
-he whiskey. As to him, it is very clear that he had the strong-

Oct. 1877.]

OcO.Row V. WHITNEY.

est interest that the whiskey should be secure from fire until
the tax on it was paid, since its continued existence was his
best, if not his only, security against liability on the bonds.
It is to be observed that no other interest of Thompson &
Co. is in issue in this suit. They never held the whiskey on
commission, and the loss in regard to the proprietary interest
had been paid by the companies. This was another and a
different interest in the same property. A man might insure his
interest in property as an executor, and his interest as a legatee.
His removal from the office of executor by the proper court
might, within the terms of this policy, prevent his recovering
in that character; but if his interest in the property as legatee
was one-sixth, would the change of executorship bar his recovery as legatee? This would hardly be asserted by any one.
It is objected further to a recovery that plaintiffs have not
actually paid the judgment. The answer to this, if any were
necessary, is that by the law of Kentucky the replevin bond is
a satisfaction of the judgment. It is as to this obligor a debt
discharged. It is said that, in case of a loss like this, the government cannot collect the tax from the bondsmen. The answer is, that the government has sued and obtained judgment
for the tax; and defendants were asked to defend that suit, and
declined to do so.
Judgment affirmed.

MORROW

V.

WMriNEY.

1. When an act of Congress, confirming a claim to land, contains a proviso that
the confirmation shall not include any lands occupied by the United States
for military purposes, the fact of such occupancy can be established by
parol evidence, and is not necessarily a matter of record.
2. Where such occupancy does not exist, the act perfects the title of the confirmee,
if the tract has clearly defined boundaries or can be identified. The interest of the United States having been thereby vested in him, a patent subse.
quently issued to him is only documentary evidence of title.
S Langdeau v. Hancs, 21 Wall. 521. cited and approved.
4 In a description of premises, distances and quantities, when inconsistent with
metes and bounds, must yield to them.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
This is an action of ejectment brought in the Brown County

