Oct. 1877.]

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

"The judge did not undertake to fix the value of the barge,
but merely referred to the proof relating to it, and said the
jury would be justified in finding accordingly." There could
be no misunderstanding by the jury after this explanation.
3. If there was an error in this respect, it was quite harmless.
It fixed for the jury, upon the assumption claimed, the sum
required by the testimony to be found. There was no conflicting evidence on the subject. There are no circumstances
which would justify any finding for a less sum than that indicated by the judge. It was the absolute duty of the jury,
upon the evidence, to find not less than that named sum if
they found for the plaintiff, and a different verdict might have
been set aside as against the evidence. A verdict, under these
circumstances, will not be disturbed by an error of this character. Corning v. Troy Iron and Nail Factory, 44 N. Y. 577.
Upon the whole case, we are of the opinion that the record
shows no error.
Judgment affirmed.

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL FOR FOUNDLINGS.
1. A., by his last will and testament, admitted to probate June 22, 1864, devised
certain lots of ground in the District of Columbia to two trustees, "and the
survivor of tihem, and the heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns of
such survivor, in trust, nevertheless, and to and for and upon the uses,
intents, and purposes following, that is to say: In trust to hold the said
lots of ground, with the appurtenances, as and for a site for the erection of
a hospital for foundlings, to be built and erected by any association, society,
or institution that may hereafter be incorporated by an act of Congress as
and for such hospital, and upon such incorporation, upon further trust to
grant and convey the said lots of ground and trust estate to the corporation
or institution so incorporated for said purpose of the erection of a hospital,
which conveyance shall be absolute and in fee. Provided,nevertheless, that
such corporation shall be approved by my said trustees, or the survivor of
them, or their successors in the trust; and, if not so approved, then upon
further trust to hold the said lots and trust estate for the same purpose,
until a corporation shall be so created by act of Congress which shall meet
the approval of the said trustees or the survivor or successors of them, to
whom full discretion is given in this behalf, and, upon such approval, in
trust to convey as aforesaid; and I recommend to my said trustees to select
an institution which shall not be under the control of any one religious sect
or persuasion; and, until such conveyance, I direct the taxes, charges, and
assessments, and all necessary expenses of, for, and upon said lots, and every

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[Sup. t

one of them, to be paid by my executors, as they shall from time to time
accrue and become due and payable, out of the residue of my estate." The
Washington Hospital for Foundlings was incorporated by an act of Congress, approved April 22, 1870 (16 Stat. 92) ; and, on the 4th of April, 1872,
the trustees under the will conveyed said lots to that corporation in fee.
Reld, 1. That the devise is not invalid for uncertainty, or because it
creates a perpetuity. 2. That the provision touching a conveyance by
the trustees whenever Congress should create a corporation for foundlings which they approved was only a conditional limitation of the estate
vested in them. 3. That the duty with which they were charged was an
executory trust, and their conveyance was necessary to and did pass the
title.
2. The statute of 43 Eliz., c. 4, was purely remedial and ancillary. It was never
in force in the District of Columbia; and the validity of charitable endowments, and the jurisdiction of courts of equity over them, do not depend
upon it.
3. The doctrine of charitable uses and trusts discussed, and the authorities bearing upon it cited and approved.

EIuoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This is an action of ejectment by the plaintiffs in error, who
were plaintiffs below, to recover fourteen lots of ground, being
part of square numbered two hundred and seven in the city of
The defendant pleaded not guilty. The case
Washington.
the
following agreed statement of facts: tried
upon
was
The defendant, the Washington Hospital for Foundlings,
admits,First,That Joshua Peirce, late of the District of Columbia,
died on the eleventh day of April, 1869.
Second, That he died seised of the real estate set forth and
described in the plaintiffs' declaration.
Third, That the plaintiffs, Elizabeth C. Ould, Elizabeth C.
Beardsley, Samuel Simonton, Abner P. Simonton, David S.
Simonton, John E. Simonton, Hannah P. Jackson, Eliza F.
Tibbetts, Abner C. P. Shoemaker, and Peirce Shoemaker, are
the heirs-at-law, and the only heirs-at-law, of said Peirce.
The plaintiffs admit,
First, That said Peirce, on the fifteenth day of October,
1867, duly executed his last will and testament, commencing
as follows: "I, Joshua Peirce, of the county of Washington, in the District
of Columbia, do make this my last will and testament in manner
and form following."

Oct. 1877.]

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

That following this is a revocation of other wills, then a
provision for the payment of debts, then several specific devises,
and then the fourteenth item, in the following words: "Fourteenth, I give, devise, and bequeath all those fourteen certain lots or pieces of ground, part of sauare numbered two hundred
and seven, situate between R and S Streets north and Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Streets west, in the said city of Washington, in the
District of Columbia; which lots are numbered from number twentyfour to number thirty-seven, inclusive, on a certain plan of subdivision of the said square, registered and recorded in the surveyor's
office for the said city, in liber W F, folio 211, and are situate on
the east side of the said Fifteenth Street, at the distance of one
hundred and sixty feet northward from the north side of the said
R Street north, containing together in front on the said Fifteenth
Street west one hundred and thirty feet, and in depth eastward
between parallel lines two hundred and ninety-four feet and a half
inch, more or less, to Johnson Avenue (including in the said depth
a twenty-feet-wide alley, laid out through the middle of the said
lots), to my friends, William Mt. Shuster and William H. Clagett,
both of the said city of Washington, and the survivor of them, and
the heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns of such survivor,
in trust, nevertheless, and to, for, and upon the uses, intents, and
purposes following, that is to say: In trust to hold the said fourteen
lots ofground with the appurtenances as and for a site for the erection
of a hospital for foundlings, to be built and erected by any association, society, or institution that may hereafter be incorporated by
an act of Congress as and for such hospital, and upon such incorporation upon further trust to grant and convey the said lots of ground
and trust-estate to the corporation or institution so incorporated for
the said purpose of the erection of a hospital, which conveyance
shall be absolute and in fee: Provided, nevertheless, that such
corporation shall be approved by my said trustees, or the survivor
of them, or their successors in the trust; and, if not so approved, then
upon further trust to hold the said lots and trust-estate for the same
purpose, until a corporation shall be so created by act of Congress,
which shall meet the approval of the said trustees, or the survivor
or successors of them, to whom full discretion is given in this behalf;
and, upon such approval, in trust to convey as aforesaid; and I
recommend to my said trustees to select an institution which shal
not be under the control of any one religious sect or persuasion;
and, until such conveyance, I direct the taxes, charges, and assessVOL. V.

20

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[Sup. CO.

ments, and all necessary expenses of, for, and upon the said lots,
and every one of them, to be paid by my executors, as they shall
from time to time accrue and become due and payable, out of the
residue of my estate."
That following this is a devise of the "rest, residue, and
remainder" of the testator's estate, "real and personal, including his estate called Linnaean Hill," in trust to trustees
for the use of the testator's wife's nephew in tail with a devise
'over.
Second, That on the twenty-second dby of June, 1869, the
said will was duly proved and admitted to probate in the Orphans' Court of the District of Columbia.
Third, That on the twenty-second day of April, 1870,
Congress passed an "Act for incorporating a hospital for
foundlings in the city of Washington," 16 Stat. 92; and that
on the fourth day of April, 1872, said Shuster and Clagett,
trustees, conveyed the property described in the declaration
and the above fourteenth item of the will to the defendant, so incorporated in conformity with the directions of the
testator.
The court below found for the defendant, whereupon the
plaintiffs brought the case here.
Mr. Benjamin F. Butler and Mr. 0. D. Barrett, for the
plaintiffs in error.
The devise was not an immediate gift to a charity, but an
executory devise for charitable purposes. 8 Greenl. Cruise on
Real Prop. 444, sects. 1, 2; 2 Redfield on Vills, c. 2, sect. 17;
Williams on Real Prop. 290, 291; Powell on Devises, 250, 287;
Nightingale v. Burrell, 15 Pick. (Mass.) 104.
It is therefore governed by the same rules as to perpetuities
as are executory devises for any other purpose, and is -void,
as at the death of the testator a possibility existed that it
might not vest in the prescribed corporation within twentyone years, or, at furthest, a life or lives in being and twentyone years. 1 Jarman on Wills, 283; 2 Redfield on Wills,
571, sect. 14; Williams on Real Prop. 294, 301; 8 Greenl.
Cruise on Real Prop. 454, sect. 23; .Everitt v. Everitt, 29 Barb.
(N. Y.) 118; Stephens et al. v. Evans, Adm'x, 30 Ind. 51;
Sears v. Russell, 8 Gray (Mass.), 98; Phelps v. Pond,

Oct. 1877.]

OULL

V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

23 N. Y. 69; Sinnett v. Herbert, L. R. 7 Ch. 240; Barnes v.
Barnes, 3 Cranch, 260; Brattle Square Ohurch v. Grant,
3 Gray (Mass.), 142; 4 Kent, Com. 267; 1 Jarman on Wills,
221; 4 Cruise, Dig., tit. 32, c. 24, sect. 18; Nightingale v.
Burrell, supra; Cadell v. Palmer, 1 Ho. of L. Cas. 372;
2 Atkinson on Conveyancing (2d ed.), 264; Bacon v. Proctor,
1 Turn. & R. 31; 3ackworth v. Hinxman, 2 Keen, 659; Ker
v. Lord Dungannon, 1 Dr. & War. 509; Commissioners of
Charitable Donations v. Baroness De Clifford, id. 245; Lewis
on Perpetuities, 169; -Duke of Norfolk v. Howard, 1 Vern.
163; Welsh v. Foster, 12 Mass. 97.
The devise is void on account of the uncertainty of its object.
Baptist Association v. Hart's Ex., 4 Wheat. 1; Coltman et al.
v. Moore et al., 1 McArthur, 197; Lingan v. Carroll, 3 Har. &
M. (Md.) 333; Dashiell et al. v. The Attorney- General, 5 Har.
& J. (Md.) 898; Dashiell v. The Attorney-General ex re7.,
6 id. 1; lWilderman v. Baltimore, 8 Md. 551; Board of Missions of the Presbyterian Church v. White's Adm'rs, 4 Am.
Law Reg. 531; Wheeler v. Smith et al., 9 How. 76.
A foundling hospital is not a charity. Since the first foundation at Milan, in 787, such institutions have rapidly multiplied in every part of Europe. The waste of human life which
they have occasioned, and the injury they have done to public
morals, render it probable that they will at no distant period
be everywhere suppressed. The statistics of France show
that they have produced frightful immorality and mortality,
and that it is "not poverty, but luxury, which produces exposures."
In England, the entire system of the foundling
hospital has been altered. Brande's Diet., vol. i. 925.
31r. Walter S. Cox and Mr. James .31Johnston, contra.
MR. J-USTICE SwA,- delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted to the court below, upon an agreed
statement of fact3.

The court fou7 d for the defendant, and gave judgment accordingly. The plaintiffs thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The questions presented for our consideration are questions of
law arising upon the will of Joshua Pierce, deceased. The will
declares: -

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

"I give, devise, and bequeath all those fourteen certain lots"
(describing fully the premises in controversy) "to my friends,
William M. Shuster and William H. Clagett, of the said city of
Washington, and the survivor of them, and the heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns of such survivor, in trust, nevertheless,
and to and for and upon the uses, intents, and purposes following,
that is to say: In trust to hold the said fourteen lots of ground,
with the appurtenances, as and for a site for the erection of a hospital for foundlings, to be built and erected by any association,
society, or institution that may hereafter be incorporated by an act
of Congress as and for such hospital, and upon such incorporation,
upon further trust to grant and convey the said lots of ground and
trust-estate to the corporation or institution so incorporated for
said purpose of the erection of a hospital, which conveyance shall
be absolute and in fee: Provided, nevertheless, that such corporation shall be approved by my said trustees, or the survivor of them,
or their successors in the trust; and, if not so approved, then upon
further trust to hold the said lots and trust-estate for the same purpose, until a corporation shall be so created by act of Congress
which shall meet the approval of the said trustees or the survivor or
successors of them, to whom full discretion is given in this behalf;
and, upon such approval, in trust to convey as aforesaid; and I
recommend to my said trustees to select an institution which
shall not be under the control of any one religious sect or persuasion; and, until such conveyance, I direct the taxes, charges, and
assessments, and all necessary expenses of, for, and upon said lots, and
every one of them, to be paid by my executors, as they shall from
time to time accrue and become due and payable, out of the residue of my estate."
The will was duly proved and admitted to probate in
the
proper court in the District of Columbia, on the 22d of June,
1864. On the 22d of April, 1870, Congress passed "An Act
for incorporating a hospital for foundlings in the city of Washington." 16 Stat. 92. On the 4th of April, 1872, Shuster
and Clagett, the trustees, conveyed the property to the defendant in error, the Washington Hospital for Foundlings, so incorporated, pursuant to the directions of the will.
The Statute of 'ills of Maryland of 1798, which is still in
force in the District of Columbia, provides that "no will, testament, or codicil shall be effectual to create any interest or perpetuity, or make any limitation or appoint to any uses not now

Oct. 1817.]

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

permitted by the Constitution or laws of the State." 2 Kilty's
Laws of Md., c. 101.
Our attention has been called in this connection to nothing
in the Constitution, and to nothing else in the laws of the State,
as requiring consideration. No statute of mortmain or statute
like that of 9 Geo. II., c. 36, is an element in the case.
The statute of 43 Eliz., c. 4, was never in force in Maryland. bDashiell v. Attorney- General, 5 Har. & J. (Md.) 392.
It is not, therefore, operative in the District of Columbia.
The opinion prevailed extensively in this country for a considerable period that the validity of charitable endowments and
the jurisdiction of courts of equity in such cases depended upon
that statute. These views were assailed with very great learning and ability in 1833, by Mr. Justice Baldwin, in .3oGill v.
Brown. Bright. (Pa.) 346. An eminent counsel of New York
was the pioneer of the bar in 1835 in a like attack. His argument in Burr's Executors v. Smith, 7 Vt. 241, was elaborate and
brilliant, and, as the authorities then were, exhaustive. He was
followed in support of the same view, in 1844, by another counsel no less eminent, in idal v. Philadelphia, 2 How. 128.
The publication, then recent, of the Reports of the British
Records Commission enabled the latter gentleman to throw
much additional and valuable light into the discussion. The
argument was conclusive.
In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Story,
referring to the doctrine thus combated, said, "Whatever
doubts might, therefore, properly be entertained upon the subject when the case of the Trustees of the Philadelphia Baptist
Association was before the court (1819), those doubts are
entirely removed by the later and more satisfactory sources of
information to which we have alluded."
The former idea was exploded, and has since nearly disappeared from the jurisprudence of the country.
Upon reading the statute carefully, one cannot but feel surprised that the doubts thus indicated ever existed. The statute
is purely remedial and ancillary. It provided for a commission
to examine into the abuses of charities already existing, and to
correct such abuses. An appeal lay to the Lord Chancellor.
The statute was silent as to the creation or inhibition of any

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[SUp. Ct.

new charity, and it neither increased nor diminished the preexisting jurisdiction in equity touching the subject. The object of the statute was to create a cheaper and a speedier
remedy for existing abuses. Th7e Horpeth Corporation,Duke
on Charitable Uses, 242. In the course of time, the new remedy fell into entire disuse, and the control of the chancellor
became again practically sole and exclusive. The power of
the king as parens patriwe, acting through the chancellor, and
the powers of the latter independently of the king, are subjects
that need not here be considered. Fountain v. -avennel, 17
How. 379 ; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1190.
The learning developed in the three cases mentioned shows
clearly that.the law as to such uses, and the jurisdiction of
the chancellor, and the extent to which it was exercised,
before and after the enactment of the statute, were just the
same.
It is, therefore, quite immaterial in the present case whether
the statute was or was not a part of the law of Maryland. The
controversy must be determined upon the general principles of
jurisprudence, and the presence or absence of the statute cannot affect the result.
Two objections were urged upon our attention in the argument at bar.
1. That there is no specification of the foundlings to be provided for, and that therefore the devise is void for uncertainty.
In this connection, it was suggested by one of the learned
counsel for the plaintiffs in error that a hospital for foundlings
tends to evil, and ought not to be supported.
2. That the devise is void because it creates a perpetuity.
The Statute of Elizabeth, before referred to, names twentyone distinct charities. -They are 1. For relief of aged, impotent, and poor people. 2. For
maintenance of sick and maimed soldiers. 3. Schools of learning. 4. Free schools. 5. Scholars in universities. 6. Houses
of correction. 7. For repair of bridges; 8, of ports and havens;
9, of causeways; 10, of churches; 11, of sea-banks ; 12, of
highways. 13. For education and preferment of orphans.
14. For marriage of poor maids. 15. For support and help

Oct. 1877.]

O1LrI V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

16, of _adi'rftsmen, 17, of persons
of young trad..n
decayed. 18. For redemption or relief of prisoners or captives. 19. For ease and aid of poor inhabitants concerning
payment of fifteens. 20. Setting out of soldiers; 21, and other
taxes.
Upon examining the early English statutes and the early
decisions of the courts of law and equity, Mtr. Justice Baldwin
found forty-six specifications of pious and charitable uses recognized as within the protection of the law, in which were embraced all that were enumerated in the statute of Elizabeth.
McGill v. Brown, supra. It is deemed unnecessary to extend
the enumeration beyond those already named.
A charitable use, where neither lawnor public policy forbids,
may be applied to almost any thing that tends to promote the
well-doing and well-being of social man. Perry on Trusts, sect.
687.
In the Girard Will Case, the leading counsel for the will thus
defined charity: "Whatever is given for the love of God, or
the love of your neighbor, in the catholic and universal sense,
-- given from these motives and to these ends, free from the
stain or taint of every consideration that is personal, private, or
selfish." MIr. Binney's Argument, p. 41.
The objection of uncertainty in this case as to the particular
foundlings to be received is without force. The endowment
of hospitals for the afflicted and destitute of particular classes,
or without any specification of class, is one of the commonest
forms of such uses. The hospital being incorporated, nothing
beyond its designation as the donee is necessary. Who shall
be received, with all other details of management, may well be
committed to those to whom its administration is intrusted.
This point is so clear, that discussion or the citation of authorities is unnecessary. Cases illustrating the subject in this view
are largely referred to in Perry on Trusts, sect. 699, and in the
note to sect. 1164, Story, Eq. Jur. See also id., sects. 1164,
1190, and notes.
Hospitals for foundlings existed in the Roman Empire. They
increased when Christianity triumphed. They exist in all
countries ot Europe, and they exist in this country. There
are no beneficiaries more needing protection, care, and kind-

OULD v. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

ness, hlone more blameless, and there are none who have
stronger claims than these waifs, helpless and abandoned upon
the sea of life.
A perpetuity is a limitation of property which renders it
inalienable beyond the period allowed by law. That period is
a life or lives in being and twenty-one years more, with a fraction of a year added for the term of gestation, in cases of post
humous birth.
In this case, the devise was in fee to two trustees and to the
survivor of them. They were directed to convey the premises
to an eleemosynary corporation for foundlings, whenever Congress should create one which the trustees approved. If the
will had been so drawn as itself to work the devolution of the
title upon the happening of the event named, the clause would
have been an executory devise. If the same thing had been
provided for in a deed inter vivos, a springing use would have
been involved; and such use would have been executed by the
transfer of the legal title, whenever that occurred. The testator chose to reach the end in view by the intervention of trustees, and directing them to convey at the proper time. This
provision in the will was, therefore, a conditional limitation of
the estate vested in the trustees, and nothing more. Their
conveyance was made necessary to pass the title. The duty
with -which they were charged was an executory trust. Amb.
552. The same rules generally apply to legal and to equitable
estates. They are alike descendible, devisable, and alienable.
Croxall v. Skerrerd, 5 Wall. 268. When such uses are consummated and no longer in fieri, the law of perpetuity has
no application. Franklin v. Armfield, 2 Sneed (Ky.), 305;
Jartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Perrin v.
Carey, 24 How. 465. It is intended that what is given shall
be perpetually devoted to the purpose of the giver.
In the case last named, the will expressly forbade for ever
the sale of any part of the devised property. This court held
the inhibition valid. Of course, the legislature, or a court of
equity under proper circumstances, could authorize or require a
sale to be made. Stanley v. Colt, 5 Wall. 119.
There may be such an interval of time possible between the
gift and the consummation of the use as will be fatal to the

Oct. 1877.]

OULD

V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

former. The rule of perpetuity applies as well to trust as to
legal estates. The objection is as effectual in one case as in
the other. If the fatal period may elapse before what is to be
done can be done, the consequence is the same as if such must
inevitably be the result. Possibility and certainty have the
same effect. Such is the law upon the subject.
A devise to a corporation to be created by the legislature is
good as an executory devise. A distinction is taken between
a devise in prmesenti to one incapable, and a devise in futuro to
an artificial being, to be created and enabled to take. Angell &
Ames on Corp., sect. 184; Porter's Case, 1 Co. 24; AttorneyGeneral v. Bonyer, 3 Ves. 714; Inglis v. The Trustees of the
Sailor's Snug Hfarbor, 3 Pet. 99; Sanderson v. Whdte, 18 Pick.
(Mass.) 328.
At common law, lands may be granted to pious uses before
there is a grantee competent to take. In the mean time, the
fee will lie in abeyance. It will vest when the grantee exists.
Town of Pawlet v. Clark, 9 Cranch, 292. See also Beatty v.
Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566, and FTincennes University v. Indiana,14 How.
268.
Charitable uses are favorites with courts of equity. The
construction of all instruments where they are concerned is
liberal in their behalf. 31ills v. Farmer, 19 Yes. 487; iheGill
v.Brown, supra; Perry on Trusts, sect. 709. Even the stern
rule against perpetuities is relaxed for their benefit.
"But a gift may be made to a charity not in esse at the time,
- to come into existence at some uncertain time in the future,
- provided there is no gift of the property in the first instance,
or perpetuity in a prior taker." Perry on Trusts, sect. 736.
Archbishop Secker, by his will, gave £1,000 to trustees for
the purpose of establishing a bishop in the British possessions
in America. Mansfield, of counsel, insisted that, "there being
no bishop in America, or the least likelihood of there ever
being one," the legacy was void, and must fall into the residue.
Lord Chancellor Thurlow said, "The money must remain in
court till it shall be seen whether any such appointment shall
take place." Attorney- Generalv. The Bishop of Chester, 1 Bro.
C. C. 444.
A testator devised his real estate to trustees, in trust, with

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

the rents and profits to purchase ground in Cambridge, proper
for a college, and to build all such structures as should be necessary for that purpose (the college to be called "Downing
College "), and to obtain a royal charter for founding such college and incorporating it by that name, in the University of
Cambridge. The trustees were to hold the premises devised
to them "in trust for the said collegiate body and their successors for ever." The devise was held to be valid. Attorney.General v. Downing, Amb. 550.
A sum of money was bequeathed to erect a blue-coat school
and establish a blind asylum, with direction that land should
not be purchased, and the expression of an expectation that
lands would be given for the charities. In answer to the suggestion at the bar that the application of the fund might be
indefinitely postponed, it was said, on the other side, that the
court would fix a time within which the gift must take effect;
and 2 Yes. 547, and 3 Atk. 806, were cited in support of the
proposition.
The Vice-Chancellor said the cases of Downing College and
the Attorney- General v. The Bishop of Chester seemed to be
authorities against the objection, bat that the point did not
arise in the case before him. It was obviated by a codicil to
the will, which appears to have been overlooked by the counsel on both sides. ifenshaw v. Atkins, 3 Madd. 167. See also
Philpot v. St. George's Hospital, 6 Ho. of L. Cas. 359. In
this case, as in the one we are considering, the trustee was
required to approve the designated charity before paying over
the money.
A testator left a sum of money to build and endow a future
church. The question was raised, but not decided, whether the
court would hold the fund for an indefinite time. The Lord
Chancellor said: "A gift to a charitable purpose, if lawful, is
good, although no object may be in existence at the time. This
was expressly decided in Attorney-Generalv. Bishop of Chester,
where the gift was for establishing a bishop in his Majesty's
dominions in America," &c. Sennet v. Herbert, Law Rep.
7 Ch. 237.
A testatrix, by her will, directed, among other things, that
when and as soon as land should be giver: for the purpose as

Oct. 1877.]

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

thereinafter mentioned, almshouses should be built in three
specified places. She further directed that the surplus remaining, after building the almshouses, should be appropriated for
making allowances to the inmates. It was held that the fund
was well given, for that the gift to charity was not conditional
and contingent, but that there was an absolute immediate gift
to charity, the mode of execution only being made dependent
on future events. Chamberlain v. Brocket, 8 Law Rep. Ch.
1872-73, p. 206. The bearing of this authority upon the case
in hand needs no remark. See also Mclntyre Poor School v.
Zanesville Canal Co., 9 Ohio, 203, and Miller v. Cldttenden,
2 Iowa, 315; s. c. 4 id. 2.52. These were controversies relating to real estate. The same point as here was involved. Both
gifts were sustained. The judgments are learned and able.
The last of this series of cases to which we shall refer is an
adjudication by this court. The testator gave the residue of
his estate, embracing a large amount of real property, to the
Chancellor of the State of New York, the mayor and recorder
of the city of New York, and others, designating them only by
their official titles, and to their respective successors in office
for ever, in trust to establish and maintain an asylum for aged,
decrepit, and worn-out sailors, the asylum to be called "The
Sailors' Snug Harbor." If the trustees so designated could not
execute the will, they were to procure from the legislature an
act of incorporation, giving them the requisite authority. Such
an act was passed, and the institution was established. The
heir-at-law sued for the property. This court held that the
official designations were descriptio personarum, and that the
trustees took personally. See Bac. Abr., Grant C; Owen v.
Bean, Duke on Char. 486; Vellbeloved v. Jones, 1 Sim. &
St. 40. Nothing was said as to the capacity of the successors
to take. A special act of incorporation was deemed necessary.
There being no particular estate to support the final disposition, the latter was held to be an executory devise. This court
decided that the gift was valid. That upon the creation of the
corporation the title to the property became vested in it, or
that the naked legal title was held by the heir-at-law in trust
for the corporation.
The points of analogy between that case and this are obvi-

HART V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

ous. There, as here, a future corporation was necessary to
give the devise effect. There, as here, there was a possibility
that such a corporation might never be created. In both cases
the corporation was created, and the intention of the testator
was carried into full effect. It is a cardinal rule in the law of
wills that courts shall do this whenever it can be done. Here
we find no impediment in the way. The gift was immediate
and absolute, and it is clear beyond doubt that the testator
meant that no part of the property so given should ever go to
his heirs-at-law, or be applied to any other object than that
to which he had devoted it by the devise here in question.
There are numerous other authorities to the same effect with
those last cited. The latter are abundantly sufficient to dispose of this case. It is, therefore, unnecessary to extend this
opinion by pursuing the subject further.
J'udgment affirmed.

HA T v. UNITED STATES.
1. The ruling in Osborne v. United States, 19 Wall. 577, reaffirmed, and applied to
this case.
2. The United States is not responsible for the laches or the wrongful acts of its
officers; and, where it takes an official bond, the obligors are conclusively
presumed to execute it with a full knowledge of that principle of law, and
to consent to be dealt with accordingly.
8. Where a defence is by way of traverse, it is not error to strike out so much
thereof as is not responsive to the allegations of the petition.

ERROP to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
This suit was brought by the United States, May 29, 1872,
against Hosmer, Hart, and Stahl, on a distiller's bond, executed
by them May 29, 1871, in the sum of $5,000, and conditioned
to be void if said Hosmer should faithfully comply with all
the provisions of law relating to the duties and business of distillers, and pay all penalties incurred or fines imposed on him
for a violation of any of said provisions, and should not suffer
the tract or lot of land on which the distillery stood, or any
part thereof, to be incumbered by mortgage, judgment, or other
lien during 'the time in which he should carry on said business.

