Oct. 1877.]

TRANSPORTATION LINE V. HOPE.

TRANSPORTATION Ln=E v. HOPE.
1. The testimony of experts is admissible in determining an issue involving a
question of nautical skill.
2. Although a transportation company, engaged in towing a barge from one point
to another, does not occupy the position of a common carrier, nor have that
exclusive control of her which that relation would imply, it does have control of her to such extent as is necessary to enable it to fulfil its contract,
and is, therefore, bound to exercise such degree of diligence and care as a
skilful performance of the stipulated service requires.
3. A mere expression of opinion by a judge upon a question of fact is not a
ground of error.
4. The action of the court below, in refusing to charge the jury as requested
by the defendant, and the charge as given, considered, and held not to be

erroneous.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
This was an action on the case by Hope, the plaintiff below,
to recover damages for the loss of the canal barge or vessel
"Mary E. Loughney," her cargo, and for freight thereon. The
plaintiff alleges, in substance, that he delivered the barge,
valued at $3,000, to the defendant, to be towed, for a certain
sum to be paid therefor, from Jersey City to New Haven;
and that, by reason of gross and culpable negligence, and the
want of ordinary care and skill of the defendant in towing
and conducting the barge, she became totally lost. The defendant pleaded the general issue. The jury found for the
plaintiff for $2,125.80; and, judgment having been rendered
thereon, the defendant brought the case here.
The remaining facts, the charge as given and that refused,
as well as the assignment of errors, are set forth in the opinion
of the court.
Mr. J. C. Gray for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.

Hope, the plaintiff in the Circuit Court, sought to recover
damages for the loss of his barge, which the defendants undertook to tow from Jersey City to New Haven, through Long
Island Sound.
The barge was lost before reaching her destination; and

TRANSPORTATION LINE V. 1lOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

the jury to which the case was submitted found a verdict for
the plaintiff for $2,125.30 damages. This was based upon the
theory of the negligence of the defendants in the performance
of their duty.
With the general question of negligence we have nothing to
-do.
The finding of the jury is conclusive upon that subject.
It is only the specific allegations of error in the rulings or
charges of the judge at the trial that we are called upon to
consider.
These allegations are as follows: It is said that the court
erred, first, in overruling the objection of defendant's counsel
to the following question, asked of Patrick McCarty, a witness,
by the counsel for the plaintiff : "With your experience, would
it be safe or prudent for a tug-boat on Chesapeake Bay, or any
other wide water, to tug three boats abreast, with a high
wind ?"
The witness had testified that for many years he had been
the captain of a tug-boat, and was familiar with the making
up of tows; that he was a pilot, and had towed vessels on Long
Island Sound, although he was not familiar with the Sound, but
that he was familiar with the waters of the Chesapeake Bay.
The witness was an expert, and was called and testified as
such. His knowledge and experience fairly entitled him to
that position. It is permitted to ask questions of a witness
of this class which cannot be put to ordinary witnesses. It is
not an objection, as is assumed, that he was asked a question
involving the point to be decided by the jury. As an expert,
he could properly aid the jury by such evidence, although it
would not be competent to be given by an ordinary witness.
It is upon subjects on which the jury are not as well able to
judge for themselves as is the witness that an expert as such
is expected to testify. Evidence of this character is often
given upon subjects requiring medical knowledge and science,
but it is by no means limited to that class of cases. It is competent upon the question of the value of land, Clark v. Baird,
9 N. Y. 183; Bearss v. Copely, 10 id. 93; or as to the value of
a particular breed of horses, Harrisv. Panama Bailroad Co.,
36 N. Y. Superior Ct. 373; or upon the value of the professional services of a lawyer, Jackson v. 2ew Y-ork Central Bail-

Oct. 1877.]

TRANSPORTATION

LINE V. HOPE.

road Co., 2 Thomp. & C. (N. Y.) 653; or on the question of
negligence in moving a vessel, 111oore v. Westervelt, 9 Bosw.
(N. Y.) 558; or on the necessity of a jettison, Price v. Hfartshorn, 44 N. Y. 94. In Walsh v. Washington -MarineInsurance
Co., 32 id. 427, it was decided that the testimony of experienced navigators on questions involving nautical skill was admissible. The witness in that case was asked to what cause the
loss of the vessel was attributable, which was the point to be
decided by the jury. The court sustained the admission of the
evidence, using this language: "We entertain no doubt that
those who are accustomed to the responsibility of command,
and whose lives are spent on the ocean, are qualified as experts
to prove the practical effect of cross-seas and heavy swells,
shifting winds and sudden squalls." The books give a great
variety of cases in which evidence of this character is admissible, and we have no doubt of the competency of the evidence
to which this objection is made.
Second, The defendants requested the court to charge the
jury "that the plaintiff's barge, the ' Mary E. Loughney,' was
within the possession and the exclusive care and control of her
owner; and the defendants, the Eastern Transportation Line,
were not bailees of the boat, nor was the barge placed within
their exclusive custody and control, and they were only liable
for failure to use ordinary care and diligence."
To which the court answered: "By the contract between
the parties, the defendants undertook to tow the plaintiff's
barge from Jersey City to New Haven. As a necessary incident of this engagement, the defendants were entitled and
were bound to assume supreme control and direction of the
plaintiff's boat, and of the persons in charge of her, so far as
was necessary to enable them to fulfil their engagement, and
they were bound to exercise such degree of diligence and care
as a prudent and skilful performance of the service for which
they stipulated would require."
The answer of the court properly defined the position of the
parties. While it was very well to ask a charge that the
transporter of the boat was not a bailee, and perhaps that
the boat was not within his exclusive control, and that only
ordinary care and diligence were required on his part, it was

800

TRANSPORTATION LINE V. HOPE.

[Sup. Ut.

quite incorrect to ask a charge that the boat was within the
possession and the exclusive care and control of her owner.
The transportation company did not occupy the position of
a common carrier, and did not have that exclusive control of
the barge which that relation would imply. It did not employ
or pay the master and the men in charge of her, nor did it
exercise that internal control of her cargo, its storage, its protection, and the like, which belonged to a bailee, and it was
not bound to the extraordinary duties and liabilities of a common carrier. Alexander v. Greene, 3 Hill (N. Y.), 9.
It is, however, impossible to admit the proposition that the
barge remained in the exclusive possession, care, and control
of her owner; that is, that the transporter had not and could
not take any, the slightest, care of her, and was not permitted
to exercise the slightest control over her, and had no possession
of her of any sort or character.
She could not be towed except by being taken in charge by
the tug; that is, under its care and control and management.
When the master of a tug undertakes to transport a barge, he
must apply the means for that purpose. He must furnish
motive power not only, but he must direct her location, whether
on the port or the starboard side, whether she shall be the
inside boat or the outside one, when and' how she shall be
lashed to other boats, with what fastenings she shall be secured
as she is dragged through the water, whether she shall go fast
or slow, when, if at all, she shall drop astern, when she shall
go to harbor, how long remain there, and what shall be her
course of navigation. These tows consist at times of thirty
or forty boats; and they must all be under one head, and
subject to one judgment, which is that of the transporter.
Whether this judgment was carefully and skilfully exercised
in this case formed the question which was passed upon by
the jury. It is extremely inaccurate to say that one who does,
and who must do, all these things is not while doing them in
the exercise of the slightest possession or care or control over
such vessel. The charge of the judge, on the contrary, that
the transporter had the supreme control of the barge, so far
as it was necessary to enable it to fulfil its contract to tow the
barge, was correct.

Oct. 1877.]

TRANSPORTATION LINE V. HOPE.

If a request to charge contains one unsound proposition, it
is not error to refuse to make the charge, although it contains many sound propositions. Beaver v. Taylor et al., 93
U. S. 46.
Third, The two objections following may be considered together. They are as follows: 1. The court below erred, it is said, in allowing the following request to charge of plaintiff below: "If the plaintiff was
placed in peril by the negligence of the master of defendant's
tug, and jumped from his boat, reasonably supposing it was
going to sink, the plaintiff may recover in this action, although
the fact of plaintiff's leaving his boat increased its peril."
This was allowed and given by the court.
2. The court below erred in its answer to the sixth request
of the defendant below.
The request was: "If the jury believe that the conduct of
the plaintiff was such as to leave his boat for any time without
being under the care or control of any one, the result of which
was to contribute to her loss, then the jury should find for the
defendants."
The court answered: "As an abstract proposition, this is
true. But if the plaintiff's boat was left in the condition
stated, under circumstances which involved imminent peril to
the lives of those who remained on board of her, or warranted
a reasonable apprehension of such peril, they were justified in
abandoning her, and by so doing were not guilty of contributory negligence."
The boat of the plaintiff was in danger of sinking; he believed the danger to be imminent, and to save his own life
jumped from his boat to the tug, leaving his boat without the
care or control of any one on board of his boat.
The counsel for the transportation company does not seriously argue that the plaintiff was bound to remain on his boat
when it was probable that she would immediately sink, or that
a reasonable apprehension of imminent peril to his own life
did not justify his abandonment so as to avoid the charge of
contributory negligence. He argues that the peril was not
imminent in fact, and again that the peril was due to the
plaintiff's previous misconduct or negligence, and that there

TRANSPORTATION

LINE v. HOPE.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

is a failure to define the connection between the peril and any
previous negligence.
None of these points are embraced within the requests made
or the charge given. There was evidence to sustain the plaintiff's theory of imminent peril, and the judge submitted to the
jury the reasonableness of his apprehension. The previous
negligence of the party, if any, its connection with the peril,
and the law upon that subject, are not alluded to either in the
requests we are considering or in the answer given to them.
The charges are fairly as well as correctly given in response to
the requests made. If the defendant desired additional or
more specific instructions, he should have asked for them.
The last objection is, that the judge charged the jury as
follows, viz.: "If you conclude, after careful consideration of
all the evidence, after the instructions we have given you, that
the plaintiff is entitled to recover, you will find a verdict in
his favor for the value of the barge, as it has been shown by
the proofs, and for the net amount of the freights; that is, I
believe, $1,800, as shown, aside from the testimony of the
plaintiff himself, to have been the value of the barge at the
time, and $90, the net amount of the freight, so that these two
amounts are the sums which the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
if you are satisfied that he is to recover at all."
This objection is not a serious one. 1. It may be doubted
whether the judge undertakes to interfere with the province
of the jury by charging them that the value of the vessel was
$1,800, and that of the freight $90, as is assumed in the argument. He simply expresses his belief or his opinion that such
is the value proven. He says, "That is, I believe, $1,800, as
shown, aside from the testimony of the plaintiff himself." So
when he adds, "These two sums are the amounts which the
plaintiff is entitled to recover, if you are satisfied that he is
entitled to recover at all," it is a part of the same expression
of opinion. An expression of an opinion simply by a judge
upon a question of fact is not a ground of error. Durkee v.
Marshal, 7 Wend. (N. Y.) 312; -Dowv. Rush, 28 Barb. (N. Y.)
157; Powell v. Jones, id. 24.
2. When the attention of the judge was called to the matter
by the defendant's exception, the record adds these words:

Oct. 1877.]

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL, ETC.

"The judge did not undertake to fix the value of the barge,
but merely referred to the proof relating to it, and said the
jury would be justified in finding accordingly." There could
be no misunderstanding by the jury after this explanation.
3. If there was an error in this respect, it was quite harmless.
It fixed for the jury, upon the assumption claimed, the sum
required by the testimony to be found. There was no conflicting evidence on the subject. There are no circumstances
which would justify any finding for a less sum than that indicated by the judge. It was the absolute duty of the jury,
upon the evidence, to find not less than that named sum if
they found for the plaintiff, and a different verdict might have
been set aside as against the evidence. A verdict, under these
circumstances, will not be disturbed by an error of this character. Corning v. Troy Iron and Nail Factory, 44 N. Y. 577.
Upon the whole case, we are of the opinion that the record
shows no error.
Judgment affirmed.

OULD V. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL FOR FOUNDLINGS.
1. A., by his last will and testament, admitted to probate June 22, 1864, devised
certain lots of ground in the District of Columbia to two trustees, "and the
survivor of tihem, and the heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns of
such survivor, in trust, nevertheless, and to and for and upon the uses,
intents, and purposes following, that is to say: In trust to hold the said
lots of ground, with the appurtenances, as and for a site for the erection of
a hospital for foundlings, to be built and erected by any association, society,
or institution that may hereafter be incorporated by an act of Congress as
and for such hospital, and upon such incorporation, upon further trust to
grant and convey the said lots of ground and trust estate to the corporation
or institution so incorporated for said purpose of the erection of a hospital,
which conveyance shall be absolute and in fee. Provided,nevertheless, that
such corporation shall be approved by my said trustees, or the survivor of
them, or their successors in the trust; and, if not so approved, then upon
further trust to hold the said lots and trust estate for the same purpose,
until a corporation shall be so created by act of Congress which shall meet
the approval of the said trustees or the survivor or successors of them, to
whom full discretion is given in this behalf, and, upon such approval, in
trust to convey as aforesaid; and I recommend to my said trustees to select
an institution which shall not be under the control of any one religious sect
or persuasion; and, until such conveyance, I direct the taxes, charges, and
assessments, and all necessary expenses of, for, and upon said lots, and every

