HART V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

ous. There, as here, a future corporation was necessary to
give the devise effect. There, as here, there was a possibility
that such a corporation might never be created. In both cases
the corporation was created, and the intention of the testator
was carried into full effect. It is a cardinal rule in the law of
wills that courts shall do this whenever it can be done. Here
we find no impediment in the way. The gift was immediate
and absolute, and it is clear beyond doubt that the testator
meant that no part of the property so given should ever go to
his heirs-at-law, or be applied to any other object than that
to which he had devoted it by the devise here in question.
There are numerous other authorities to the same effect with
those last cited. The latter are abundantly sufficient to dispose of this case. It is, therefore, unnecessary to extend this
opinion by pursuing the subject further.
J'udgment affirmed.

HA T v. UNITED STATES.
1. The ruling in Osborne v. United States, 19 Wall. 577, reaffirmed, and applied to
this case.
2. The United States is not responsible for the laches or the wrongful acts of its
officers; and, where it takes an official bond, the obligors are conclusively
presumed to execute it with a full knowledge of that principle of law, and
to consent to be dealt with accordingly.
8. Where a defence is by way of traverse, it is not error to strike out so much
thereof as is not responsive to the allegations of the petition.

ERROP to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
This suit was brought by the United States, May 29, 1872,
against Hosmer, Hart, and Stahl, on a distiller's bond, executed
by them May 29, 1871, in the sum of $5,000, and conditioned
to be void if said Hosmer should faithfully comply with all
the provisions of law relating to the duties and business of distillers, and pay all penalties incurred or fines imposed on him
for a violation of any of said provisions, and should not suffer
the tract or lot of land on which the distillery stood, or any
part thereof, to be incumbered by mortgage, judgment, or other
lien during 'the time in which he should carry on said business.

Oct. 1877.]

HART V. UNITED STATES.

The breach alleged was the non-payment by said tIosmer of
$3,000, demanded of him, being the amount of tax on six thousand gallons of spirits, which he had distilled after the first day
of June, 1871. He made no defence. The other defendants
filed three pleas: 1. That the bond was never delivered to the
plaintiff; that the assessor had no authority of law to approve
it; and that neither the collector nor any other officer of the
plaintiff had authority to receive it. 2. That the bond was a
common distiller's bond, and that they signed it merely as
sureties for Hosmer, without consideration, and for his accommodation; that, six days before its execution, Hosmer, without their knowledge, incumbered the ground upon which the
distillery stood, by his mortgage of the same to one Dempsey,
which was duly recorded May 25, 1871; that the plaintiff
did not require, nor did Hosmer file with the assessor, the written
consent of Dempsey that the lien of the United States for taxes
and penalties should have priority to the mortgage, and that
the title should, in case of forfeiture, vest in the United
States, discharged of said mortgage; nor was Hosmer required
to, nor did he, execute an indemnity bond against said mortgage, as required by the act of Congress approved April 10,
1869, but that the bond sued on was approved without the
filing of such consent or the taking of such indemnity bond;
that, by reason of the non-payment by Hosmer of the taxes on
distilled spirits which were chargeable, and a lien upon said
ground, a part of it was distrained and sold for $6,100, which
sum, if the amount of Dempsey's mortgage had not been deducted therefrom, would have been sufficient to pay Hosmer's
indebtedness to the United States. 3. That the taxes charged
and sued for were assessed against Hosmer on spirits he had
distilled, and were a first and paramount lien thereon; but
that the collector of internal revenue for the district, without the knowledge or assent of the defendants, and without
first requiring the payment of the taxes thereon, permitted
him to remove from the bonded warehouse a quantity of said
than sufficient to pay any just claim of the
spirits, -more
plaintiff.
On motion of the plaintiff, all of the first plea, except so
much as averred the non-delivery of the bond sued on, was

HART V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

stricken out. Demurrers to the second and third were sustained, whereupon the defendants excepted.
The court found that the bond in suit was signed May 29,
1871; that it was, on the first day of June, handed by Hosmer
to the deputy-assessor of internal revenue, to be transmitted to
the assessor, by whom it was approved June 5, and then duly
transmitted by mail to the collector of the district.
There was a judgment for $3,048.40, and costs.
Hart and Stahl then sued out this writ of error.
Hr. James A. Garfield and Mir. A. G. Riddle for the plaintiffs in error.
kfr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. CmF JUSTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court,
The second defence relied upon in this case is disposed of by
Osborne v. United States, 19 Wall. 577, which we are not inclined to reconsider.
The third defence is equally bad. Under the law as it stood
when this suit was commenced, no distilled spirits could be
removed from a distillery warehouse before payment of the
tax, 15 Stat. 130, sect. 15, without subjecting all those engaged
in such a removal to heavy penalties, id. 140, sect. 36. An
officer of the United States had no authority to dispense with
this requirement of the law. If in violation of his duty he permitted such a removal, he subjected himself to punishment, but
did not bind the government by his acts. The government is
not responsible for the laches or the wrongful acts of its officers.
Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269; United States v. Kirkpatriclc, 9 Wheat. 720; United States v. Vanzandt, 11 id. 184;
United States v. Nicholl, 12 id. 505; Jones et al. v. United
States, 18 Wall. 662. Every surety upon an official bond to the
government is presumed to enter into his contract with a full
knowledge of this principle of law, and to consent to be dealt
with accordingly. The government enters into no contract
with him that its officers shall perform their duties. A government may be a loser by the negligence of its officers, but it
never becomes bound to others for the consequences of such
neglect, unless it be by express agreement to that effect. Here

Oct. 1877.]

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

the surety was aware of the lien which the law gave as security for the payment of the tax. He also knew that, in order
to retain this lien, the government must rely upon the diligence
and honesty of its agents. If they performed their duties and
preserved the security, it inured to his benefit as well as that
of the government; but if by neglect or misconduct they lost it,
the government did not come under obligations to make good
the loss to him, or, what is the same thing, release him pro tanto
from the obligation of his bond. As between himself and the
government, he took the risk of the effect of official negligence
upon the security which the law provided for his protection
against loss by reason of the liability he assumed.
There was no error in striking out that portion of the first
defence which was objected to. It was not responsive to any
Judgment affirmed.
allegation in the petition.

SmIELDS V. OHIO.
1. The consolidation, pursuant to the statute of Ohio of April 10, 1856 (4 Curwen, 2791), of two or more railway companies works their dissolution. All
the powers and franchises of the new company which is thereby formed
are derived from that statute, and are subject to "be altered, revoked, or
repealed by the General Assembly," under sect. 2, art. 1, of the Constitution
of that State, which took effect Sept. 1, 1851.
2. The General Assembly does not, therefore, impair the obligation of a contract
by prescribing the rates for the transportation of passengers by the new
company, although one of the original companies was, prior to the adoption
of that Constitution, organized under a charter which imposed no limitation
as to such rates.

EuRRo to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by 111r. James 31ason for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Samuel Shellabargerfor the defendant in
error.

MI. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was the conductor of a train of cars
upon the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway, between
Elyria and Cleveland. Ulrich was a passenger, intending to

