252

MfrL

v. M3EEK.

[Sup. Ct.

MMWER v. MEEK.
1. An appeal, where the amount in controversy is sufficient, lies to this court
from a decree rendered by the Circuit Court, in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction, in a suit wherein a bill in equity against the creditors of a
bankrupt was filed and prosecuted to a final decree in the District Court by
his assignees, who prayed for a sale of his land, and an adjustment of the
liens thereon arising from judgment, mortgage, or otherwise.
2. The supervisory and the appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, in cases
arising under the bankrupt acts, distinguished.
3. Where the decree determined the amount and priority of the respective liens,
an appeal therefrom will not be dismissed on the ground that it was taken
by one lien creditor, if it brings up so much of the case and such of the
parties as are necessary for the determination of his rights.

APpEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Ohio.
The case presented by this record is in substance as follows:
On the 17th of November, 1870, Abram A. Moore conveyed certain lands in Clinton County, Ohio, to John Milner,
Jr. This conveyance, it is claimed, was made to hinder and
delay creditors, and is therefore, as to them, void. Dec. 20,
1870, C. M. Walker commenced suit against Moore in the
Court of Common Pleas of Clinton County, upon a contract
made June 28, 1870; and at the same time caused an order of
attachment to be issued under the laws of Ohio, by virtue of
which he claimed to have attached as the propeity of Moore
the lands conveyed to Milner. On the 2d of January, 1871,
Thomas H. Long sued Moore in the same court, and claimed
also to have attached the lands on the 10th of the same month.
Jan. 19, 1872, Milner reconveyed the lands to Moore, who
thereupon mortgaged them to Milner to secure the payment
of a note for $8,295.89, payable, with interest, Dec. 25, 1872,
and also to save him harmless against certain specified liabilities which he, as surety for Moore, had incurred. This
mortgage was recorded in Clinton County Jan. 22, 1872.
Subsequently to this time, sundry judgments were rendered
against Moore which are liens upon his equity of redemption
in the lands, and, July 13, 1870, he executed a mortgage on
them to one Shepherd.
Nov. 23, 1872, Moore was adjudged a bankrupt in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of

Oct. 1877.]

MILNER V. MEEK.

Ohio, and, Dec. 23, 1872, William M. Meek was duly appointed
his assignee. On the 7th of December, 1872, leave was granted
by the bankrupt court to Walker and Long, to proceed to
judgment in their suits in the State court, for the purpose of
ascertaining the amount which might be proven against the
estate. Dec. 31, 1872, the assignee was, on his own application,
made a party defendant to each of these suits; and, after trials,
judgments were rendered against Moore in both actions.
March 10, 1873, Meek, the assignee, filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Southebm District of Ohio a
petition, as follows: "in. the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio.
"In the Matter of ABR . A. MooRm, In Bankruptcy.
k
Bankrupt.n
"William M. Meek, assignee of the estate of Abram A. Moore,
a bankrupt, respectfully represents that the said Abram A. Moore
was declared a bankrupt Nov. 23, 1872; . . .that the assets of

said estate consist of the following described real estate:" (here
follows a description of the lands conveyed by the bankrupt to
Milner and reconveyed by Milner); "that upon certain parcels of
the land [describing them] the following liens are claimed to exist."
The liens as claimed are then set out specifically, as follows.
"1. Taxes.
"2. Walker's attachment and judgment.
"3. Shepherd's mortgage.
"4. Long's attachment and judgment.
"5. Milner's mortgage.

"6. Judgment in favor of Silas Routh.
"7. Judgment in favor of Samuel J. Moore.
"8. Judgment in favor of William W. Moore, Jr.
"9. An agreement in favor of William Moore, Sen.
"10. Judgment in favor of Thomas C. Moore.
"11. Judgment in favor of James Patton."
A statement is then given of the general creditors who have
proven their claims, and the whole concludes with a prayer, as
follows : -

"Your petitioner, therefore, prays that C. M. Walker, H. A.
Shepherd, T. H. Long, John Milner, Jr., J. Silas Routh, Samuel J.

MILNER V. MrEEK.

[Sup. Ct.

Moore, William W. Moore, Jr., William Moore, Sen., Thomas C.
Moore, James Patton, . [and all the general creditors, naming
them], may be made defendants hereto, and that the defendants
may be called upon to answer, and that your Honor will order
proper steps to be taken for the adjustment of the liens, and that
your petitioner may be ordered to sell real estate upon such terms
as in the judgment of your Honor seem best for all creditors, and
such otter relief as may be proper."
Process in the form of a subpoena was thereupon issued, and
served upon all the parties named as defendants; and, April 8,
1878, the court ordered that the petition be referred to one of
the registers of the court, with instructions, among other things,
"to hear the testimony adduced by the parties and arguments
of counsel, and to determine the priority of liens among the
creditors of said bankrupt, and to make a full report to the
court of all his findings, together with the evidence produced
by the parties on the hearing, and of all such matters transpiring in the premises as might seem to him proper for the investigation of the court."
April 21, 1878, Walker filed his answer, setting up his claim,
and praying that his lien might be established and his judgment paid out of the proceeds of the sale when made. To
this answer Meek replied, in substance, denying the lien. On
the same 21st April, 1878, Long filed his answer, setting up his
claim and judgment, and asserting his lien. He also prayed
that his lien might be established and his judgment paid. To
this answer Meek replied, denying the lien. Milner also filed
an answer and cross-petition in the cause, in which he denied
the liens of Long and Walker, set up his mortgage as the first
lien, and asked that he might be paid from the proceeds of the
sale in preference to any other creditor. To this answer and
cross-petition Meek answered, setting forth the conveyance
from Moore to Milner Nov. 17, 1870, and averring that it was
made upon no consideration, and was void as to creditors. He
t.hen set forth the reconveyance and the mortgage, but alleged
that there was nothing due upon the mortgage, and that it, too,
was fraudulent as against creditors. Walker, Long, and other
lien creditors filed answers to the answer and cross-petition of
NAilner, setting forth substantially the same defenees that we.':A

Oct. 1877.]

MILNER V. MEEK.

255

contained in that of 'Meek. To these answers Milner replied.
Other lien creditors filed answers to the original petition of
the assignee, setting up their respective claims, and asking
appropriate relief.
Testimony was taken before the register, who, on the 26th
of February, 1874, made his report to the court, transmitting all the testimony taken. He reported against the mortgage of Milner, on the ground that it was fraudulent and
void as to creditors. He also reported against the liens of
Walker and Long, on the ground that both the attachments
and levies were void. He then reported the amounts due
the other lien creditors, with their respective priorities, and
recommended that the property be sold by the assignee, and
the proceeds distributed in the order of precedence as stated
by him.
Exceptions were taken to this report by Milner and Long
and Walker; and thereupon the cause came on to be heard
before the court "on the petition of the assignee, filed in this
court, and the answers and pleadings of all the defendants,
filed before James H. Thompson, register, acting as master
commissioner, under an order of reference made to him . . .
the eighth day of April, 1873, . . . and also upon all the evidence and exhibits produced by all the parties upon the hearing . . . before the register, acting as master commissioner,
. . . and also upon the written report . . . of said register
acting as said master commissioner; and thereupon all parties
interested in the cause appeared, . . . and waived all objections
to all informality and irregularity of pleadings and proceedings
before said register, except John Milner, Jr., who, in waiving
said objections, expressly reserved whatever rights he might
have to take additional testimony in his behalf in the event of
the register's report, being not confirmed by the court on account of any such informality or irregularity." Upon this
hearing the court decided adversely to the exceptions of Long,
Walker, and Milner, and entered a decree, substantially confirming the report. Long, Walker, and Milner were thereupon allowed an appeal to the Circuit Court; and they each in
due time perfected their appeals by executing the necessary
bond.

MILNER V. MIEEK.

[Sup. Ct.

Nov. 18, 1874, the following entry in the cause appears upon
the journal of the Circuit Court: "Now come the several parties in interest, . . . and, waiving any
irregularity which might exist in this proceeding by reason of not
having been brought on a petition for review instead of by appeal,
hereby consent that the transcript of the record of the District
Court herein filed be treated as such bill of review, in case it should
be held to be necessary.'
The cause was thereupon heard in the Circuit Court, and,
Nov. 19, 1874, a decree was entered in that court, as follows: "This day this cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record of the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, which was brought into the Circuit
Court of the United States for said district upon an appeal from
the findings and decrees of the District Court, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is, in all respects hereby affirmed. And it is
further ordered that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said District Court for further proceedings to be had therein,
in conformity with the opinion of this court. And thereupon the
said John Milner, Jr.,. . . prays an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, which is allowed by the court."
The case is now here upon this appeal, and the assignee
moves to dismiss 1. Because no appeal lies to this court from the decrees and
orders of the Circuit Court while exercising its supervisory
jurisdiction under the bankrupt law; and,
2. Because the other lien creditors who were parties to the
proceeding below are not parties to the appeal.
Mr. Stanley Matthews and 31r. J. B. _oraker for the appellant.
Mr.Henry L. -Dickey, contra.
MR. CmF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The validity of the first objection to this appeal depends
upon whether the proceeding in the District Court is to be
treated as a suit in equity or as part of the suit in bankruptcy.
If the former, the appeal lies; but if the latter, it does not.

Oct. 1877.]

MILNER V. MEEK.

The pleading filed by the assignee was appropriate in form
for a petition in the bankrupt suit, but it was equally good in
substance as a bill in equity. It contained a complete statement of a cause of action cognizable in equity, and a sufficient
prayer for relief. There was no formal prayer for a subpoena,
but process was issued and served. All the parties interested
appeared, and presented their respective claims by answers, or
answers and cross-petitions, with appropriate prayers for relief.
In Sticktney v. Wilt, 23 Wall. 150, the petition was in all
its essential features like the one in this case. It was filed by
an assignee in bankruptcy against lien creditors, entitled as of
the bankrupt suit, and addressed to the district judge. Like
that in the present case, it contained no formal prayer for subpcena; but there was a prayer for relief, much like the one here.
The several lien claimants appeared, and presented their respective claims by answer. The District Court having directed
a sale of the property free of an incumbrance set up by Wilt,
he filed in the Circuit Court a petition for review under its
supervisory jurisdiction. The Circuit Court reversed the order
of the District Court, and sent the case back, with instructions
to allow the claim of Wilt, and proceed accordingly. From:
this action of the Circuit Court the assignee took an appeal to
this court, where it was decided that, notwithstanding the form.
of the petition filed in the District Court, it contained all the
essential ingredients of a bill in equity; and, as the subject-matter of the action was one cognizable by the District Court, under
that provision of the bankrupt law which gives it jurisdiction
of suits at law and in equity in respect to the property of the
bankrupt, that court must be presumed, in the absence of any
thing appearing to the contrary, to have acted under that jurisdiction when it granted the relief complained of. For this
reason, we held that the remedy of Wilt was by appeal to the
Circuit Court, and not by petition for review under the supervisory jurisdiction; and that the action of the Circuit Court
was irregular and of no effect, because of a want of power to
proceed in that way in such a case. As, however, what the
court did do was under an assumed supervisory jurisdiction,
we did not dismiss the appeal, but sent the case back, with
instructions to the Circuit Court to dismiss the petition for
VOL. V.

17

MILNER V. MEEK.

[Sup. Ct.

review for want of jurisdiction, and suggesting to the District
Court the propriety of entertaining a bill of review in equity
to correct the errors in the original decree, if any were found
to exist.
That case seems to us to be decisive of this, which is clearly
one of equitable jurisdiction. The parties expressly waived all
errors of form, and asked the court to proceed to a final bearing of all the questions in which they were interested. The
court did proceed, and did enter a decree, from which an appeal
was allowed and taken to the Circuit Court. In the Circuit
Court the parties again stipulated that the court might proceed
as upon an appeal, with the understanding, however, that the
appeal should be turned into a petition for review in case it
appeared to be necessary. It is evident, therefore, that the
case in the courts below was not only in substance a suit in
equity, but that both the parties and the court treated it as
such, and acted accordingly. The proceeding is full of irregularities; but these have all been waived, and both courts below
were asked to hear and decide the case upon its merits, without
regard to mere form.
We are clearly of the opinion that, under the practice as
finally established in this court in furtherance of justice, the
case was properly brought here by the appeal.
As to the second objection, it is sufficient to say that the
appeal was allowed in open court during the term at which
the decree was rendered. No citation was, therefore, necessary.
Broclcett v. Brockett, 2 How. 241. Milner alone appealed; but
his appeal brings up so much of the case and such of the parties as are necessary for the determination of his rights.
The motion to dismiss the appeal is, therefore, denied, and
we are brought to a consideration of the case upon its merits.
This presents only questions of fact. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the testimony; but, after a careful examination of
the whole record, we are satisfied that the conveyance executed
by the bankrupt to Milner, Nov. 17, 1870, was void as against
creditors, but that the mortgage of the 19th of January, 1872,
was executed for a good and valuable consideration, and without fraud, and that it constitutes a valid and subsisting lien
upon the property mortgaged as of the dat. of its record, to

Oct. 1877.]

COLORADO

Co. v. COMMISSIONERS.

secure the payment of such an amount as may appear to be
due upon the indebtedness and liability secured thereby.
The decree of the Circuit Court, in so far as it affirms the
decree of the District Court declaring the mortgage in favor
of Mlilner fraudulent and void, will be reversed, and the cause
remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to reverse the
decree of the District Court rejecting the lien of that mortgage,
and to remand the cause to the District Court with instructions
to establish that lien, and to proceed further with the cause as
law and justice may seem to require; and it is
So ordered.

COLORADO COMPA.NY V. COMISSIONERS.
Where an act of Congress confirms a Mexican grant of five hundred thousand
acres.to the extent of eleven square leagues, to be selected within the limits
of the claim, according to the lines of the public surveys which the Commissioner of the General Land-Office is directed to cause to be run for the proper
location of the quantity confirmed, and provides that the confirmation shall
not be legally effective until payment by the confirmee of the expense of so
much of the surveys as inure to his benefit, - Hdd, 1. That, until such payment, the confirmee has no title to the eleven square leagues selected pursuant
to the act, nor a perfect equitable right to such title, and they are not subject
to taxation. 2. That Congress, after the surveys and plats shall have been
perfected, may enforce such payment by a sale of the lands, a resumption of
the grant, or other appropriate mode.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff in error in the District Court within and for the county of Pueblo, to recover
taxes paid by it under protest, July 1, 1874, which had been
assessed for the year 1873, on certain lands situate in that
county. The judgment rendered in its favor by that court
having been reversed by the Supreme Court of the Territory,
the cause was removed here by writ of error.
Manuel Armijo, governor of New Mexico, granted, Dec. 1,
1843, to Gervacio Nolan, lands in a part of that province, now
constituting Pueblo County, Colorado, which cover by estimate
five hundred thousand acres, bounded by mountains and natural
objects.
Congr-ess passed an act, approved July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 646,
ERROR

