Oct. 1877.]

ADAMS V. NASHVILLE.

cial proceeding to which the trustee or any cestui que trust
under the later deed was a party until it was put forth in this
suit, which was instituted on the 7th of June, 1869, more than
twenty years after the mistake occurred. As between Montgomery, the grantor in the prior deed, and the cestuis que trust
under that deed, the deed might have been reformed, and
enforced as corrected. .Davenportv. Sovil's Heirs, 6 Ohio St.
459. But this cannot be done against the intervening rights
Trust Co. v.
of others acquired in good faith. Ohio Life
Urbana Insurance Co., 13 Ohio, 220.
Such a result would be contrary alike to the plainest principles of reason, justice, and the law.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
enter a decree andproceed in conformity to this opinion.
'

ADA s v. NASHVILLE.
1. The act of Congress, approved June 3, 1864 (13 Stat. 99), was not intended to
curtail the power of the States on the subject of taxation, or to prohibit the
exemption of particular kinds of property, but to protect the corporations
formed under its authority from unfriendly discrimination by the States in
the exercise of their taxing power.
2. People v. The Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, and Hepburn v. The Sclool Directors,
23 id. 480, cited and approved.
3. The Supreme Court of Tennessee having decided that the act of the legi,lature of that State, requiring that all personal property of every kind and
nature shall be listed and assessed for taxation, overrides and repeals the
previous ordinance of the city of Nashville exempting from municipal taA Ition certain city bonds, and brings them within the scope of general taxation,
that decision is binding upon this court.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.31r. Edward Baxter for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. . Baileyq, contra.
MR. JUSTiCE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error, stockholders in the Fourth National
Bank of Nashville, Tenn., filed their bill in the Chancery
Court of Davidson County in that State against the Mayor and

ADAMS v. NASHVILLE.

[Sup. Ct.

City Council of Nashville, to enjoin the collection of a tax
imposed upon their shares of stock by that municipal corporation, and to have the tax declared illegal and void.
The bill was demurred to. The Chancellor sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the bill. Upon appeal to the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, the highest court of law or equity in the
State, the decree of the Chancellor was affirmed; and thereupon
the case was brought to this court by writ of error.
It is contended that the stathte of the United States, which
authorizes the taxation by State authority of the shares of
stock in a national bank, but provides that such taxation shall
not be at a greater rate than' is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals, has been violated in the
case of the present plaintiffs. 13 Stat. 102. The first cause
of complaint arises out of the act of the legislature of the State
of Tennessee of March 1, 1869. The act, it is said, provides
that no tax shall be assessed upon the capital of any bank or
joint-stock company organized under the laws of that State or
of the United States. This, it is insisted, is an exemption
from taxation of property in the hands of individual citizens,
and operates to produce a greater rate of taxation on the plaintiffs' shares in the Fourth National Bank of Nashville than is
assessed on other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals,
to wit, on such banking capital, and hence that such taxation
is illegal.
The statute enacts that no tax shall be assessed upon the
capital of a State bank, but proceeds, in the same section, to
say that its shares shall be included in the valuation of the
personal property of the owner, for the purpose of assessment
for State, county, and municipal taxation, at the same rate
that is assessed upon other moneyed capital, and that, in addition thereto, the real estate owned by the bank shall be subject
to the same taxation as other real estate.
This objection, in its general character, may be considered
in connection with the second objection. The answer to both
of them is found in the principle thus laid down in People v.
The Commissioners, 4 Wall. 256: "That the rate of taxation
upon the shares should be the same or not greater than upon
the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which is liable to

Oct. 1877.]

ADAMS V. NASHVILLE.

taxation; that is, no greater in proportion or percentage of
tax in the valuation of shares should be levied than upon other
moneyed taxable capital in the hands of the citizens." See
also Hfepburn v. The School -Directors,23 id. 480.
By an ordinance of the defendants' corporation, passed on
the 18th of April, 1870, it is provided that certain interest,
paying bonds issued by the said corporation shall be exempt
from taxation by said corporation. It is said that there are
many such bonds in existence in the hands of individuals; that
by such exemption the complainants' shares are taxed at a
greater rate than is assessed upon such bonds; and that, therefore, the taxation complained of is in violation of the act of
Congress forbidding the taxation of national shares at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individuals.
There are several answers to this objection: 1. It is not alleged in the bill that the bonds therein referred
to are in fact exempted from taxation for municipal purposes.
After reciting the issue and proposed exemption, the bill says
that said property is "thus exempted from all municipal
taxes;" that is, that, as a matter of law, it follows from the
facts before stated that it is thus exempt.
This is not sufficient, especially when it is alleged in the
brief opposed that the fact is otherwise.
2. By the statutes of the State of Tennessee, passed subsequently to the issue of the bonds, all personal property, of
every kind and nature, is required to be listed and assessed for
taxation.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee hold, in the case before
us, that this statute repeals and overrides the ordinance of
exemption, and brings these bonds within the scope of general
taxation. This is a decision of a State tribunal upon the construction of its own statutes, which we are bound to respect.
3. Considering the objection on its merits and in connection
with the objection first described, the case is met by iepburn
v. The School -Directors,8upra.
By a statute of Pennsylvania, it was enacted that "all mortgages, judgments, recognizances, and moneys owing upon articles of agreement for the sale of real estate shall be exempt

ADAMS V. NASHVILLE.

[Sup. Ct.

from taxation, except for State purposes." There, as here,
it was objected that this exemption, by relieving certain specified
property from taxation, brought the case within the prohibition
of the act of Congress, and thus vitiated the tax sought to be
enforced. This court held otherwise.
The act of Congress was not intended to curtail the State
power on the subject of taxation. It simply required that
capital invested in national banks should not be taxed at a
greater rate than like property similarly invested. It was not
intended to cut off the power to exempt particular kinds of
property, if the legislature chose to do so. Homesteads, to a
specified value, a certain amount of household furniture (the
six plates, six knives and forks, six teacups and saucers, of the
old statutes), the property of clergymen to some extent, schoolhouses, academies, and libraries, are generally exempt from
taxation. The discretionary power of the legislature of the.
States over all these subjects remains as it was before the act
of Congress of June, 1864. The plain intention of that statute
was to protect the corporations formed under its authority from
unfriendly discrimination by the States in the exercise of their
taxing power. That particular persons or particular articles are
relieved from taxation is not a matter to which either class
can object.
The third objection is equally untenable. The statute referred to does not purport to relieve any property from taxation. It provides a mode for ascertaining the average capital
of the merchant, and for giving a license to carry on the business of a merchant. He is required to pay an ad valorem tax
on all his capital, and a.license tax in addition.
The observations already made are pertinent under this head.
Judgment affirmed.

