Oct. 1877.]

CAMBUSTON V. UNITED STATES.

such as to require it. Under rule 24, par. 3, the court below
will be required, when the mandate goes down, to tax the costs
of the transcript of the record below as part of the costs in the
case. That court will then have an opportunity, if it sees fit,
of making an order in respect to the amount its clerk shall be
permitted to charge.
It is not easy to prescribe by rule what a record in all cases
shall contain or what shall be excluded; but rule 52 in admiralty contains suggestions which may serve as an appropriate
guide in cases at law or in equity.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree dismissing
the bill without prejudice of the right of the complainant or
the holders of the construction bonds, which are the subject
of the action, to commence another suit to enforce the alleged
contract of settlement, whenever they shall be in a condition
so to do. Each party to these appeals is required to pay his
own costs in this court; and it is
So ordered.

CAMBUSTO

V. UNITED STATES.

The District Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, under an act entitled "An
Act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California,"
approved March 3, 1857 (9 Stat. 631), rendered a decree Nov. 12, 1859,
rejecting the claim of A. He died Jan. 22, 1869, and his executrix was, by
an order of the court entered April 3, 1875, permitted to become the party
claimant of the land. She thereupon moved for a new trial and the reversal
of the decree. The motion was overruled; and, on the same day, an appeal
was allowed her from the decree and from the order refusing a new trial.
Held, 1. That the appeal from the decree was not taken in time. 2. That no
appeal lies from the order refusing a new trial.
MOTION by the United States to dismiss an appeal from
the District Court of the United States for the District of
California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The motion was submitted on printed arguments by the
Solicitor-General for the United States, and by Miir. .Edmon(
L. Goold for the appellant.

CAMBUSTON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of California, in a proceeding under
the "Act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in
the State of California," passed March 3, 1851. 9 Stat. 631.
The case was here at the December Term, 1857, when a former
decree of the District Court was reversed, and the cause sent
back for further hearing. United States v. Cambuston, 20 How.
59. The mandate was filed in the court below, May 5, 1859,
and the further hearing resulted in a decree, Nov. 12, 1859,
rejecting the claim. The court adjourned for the term on the
first Monday in December, 1859, previous to which time no
motion for a new trial or petition for rehearing had been filed.
On the 24th of February, 1860, Lansing B. Mizner, as "a
party in interest," filed with the clerk of the court a petition
for rehearing. What his interest actually was nowhere appears
in the record. A copy of this petition was served on the district attorney of the United States the same day the original
was filed in the clerk's office; and, March 13, 1860, the district
attorney and the attorney for the claimant entered into the
following stipulation: -

"It is hereby stipulated that Tully R. Wise, acting United
States district attorney, waived written notice to him of a motion
to be made for a new trial during the term of the United States
District Court, ending the first Monday in December last, and that
he considered a verbal notice of intention to move as sufficient to
him, and then given to him, the said Wise. It is further stipulated,
that, if the said Henry Cambuston now has the right to have the
said motion heard, it shall not be prejudiced by delay until the
return of the Hon. Ogden Hoffman."
Nothing further was done until April 2, 1875, when the
widow of Cambuston - he having died Jan. 22, 1869 - appeared
in court and asked to "be permitted to become the party
claimant of the land," as executrix of the will of her deceased
husband, which had been admitted to probate May 3, 1869.
An order to this effect was made April 3, 1875, and on the
same day the claimant asked that a new trial be granted, and
that the decree rejecting the claim might be reversed. The

Oct. 1877.]

CAMBUSTON V. UNITED STATES.

parties thereupon appeared, and, after hearing, the court denied
the motion. On the same day, April 3, 1875, this appeal was
allowed, both from the final decree and the order refusing a
new trial. The United States now move to dismiss the appeal,
because taken too late.
The statute in force when the decree was rendered providet
that writs of error and appeals should not be brought to this
court except within five years after passing or rendering the
decree or judgment complained of. 1 Stat. 85, sect. 22. As
this decree was rendered Nov. 12, 1859, and the appeal not
taken until April 3, 1875, it is clear that the motion to dismiss
should be granted, unless the petition for rehearing or motion
for a new trial suspended the operation of this statute.
In Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238, it was held that a petition for rehearing filed during the term, and actually entertained by the court, suspended the operation of a decree in
equity until the petition was disposed of. Neither the petition
for a rehearing nor the motion for a new trial in this case was
filed, or the attention of the court in any manner called to
such a proceeding, during the term at which the decree was
rendered. The proceeding before the District Court was statutory, and not at common law or in equity. It was, however, a
suit, and must be governed by the rules of law applicable to
that class of judicial proceedings. Consequently, when the
term closed at which the decree was rendered, the parties
were out of court, and the jurisdiction ended so far as that
court was concerned, no steps having been taken to keep it
alive. The decree was thell in full force and operative for all
purposes.
According to the practice in suits at common law and in
equity, no step has since been taken which can have the effect
of suspending the decree for the purpose of an appeal. By
sect. 726 of the Revised Statutes, the courts of the United
States are empowered to grant new trials in cases where there
has been a trial by jury, for reasons for which new trials have
usually been granted in the courts of law; and by sect. 987,
when a Circuit Court enters judgment in a civil action, either
upon a verdict or on a finding of the court upon the facts,
execution may, on motion of either party, at the discretion of

CAIMBUSTON

iY. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

the court, and on such conditions for the security of the adverse
party as it may judge proper, be stayed forty-two days from
the time of entering judgment, to give time to file in the
clerk's office of the court a petition for a new trial. If such
petition is filed within such term of forty-two days, with a
certificate thereon of any judge of the court that he allows it
to be filed, execution shall, of course, be further stayed until
the next session of the court. From this legislation it is
apparent that it was not the policy of Congress to suspend the
operation of a judgment so as to allow an application for a
new trial in any case beyond a period of forty-two days from
the time of its rendition. Here judgment was rendered Nov. 12,
1859, and the petition for rehearing was not filed until one
hundred and twenty-five days thereafter. The stipulation
between counsel, under date of March 13, 1860, was not that
a motion for new trial had been filed, but that notice of an
intention to make such a motion had been given; and that, if
a hearing could then be had, it should not be prejudiced by
further delay until the return of the district judge. This
application seems never to have been brought to the attention
of the court. It is unnecessary to decide whether such a
motion can be filed after the term has closed, if no application
is made during the term for stay of execution under the statute
or for an extension of time to prepare the motion.
In suits in equity the practice is even more strict. Equity
rule 88 provides that, in cases where an appeal lies to this
court, no rehearing shall be granted after the term at which
the final decree shall have been entered and recorded.
We are clearly of the opinion, therefore, that the appeal
from ihe decree of Nov. 12, 1859, was not taken in time, and
as no appeal lies from the order refusing the new trial, - Warner
v. Norton et al., 20 How. 448, - it follows that the motion to
So ordered.
dismiss must be granted; and it is

