NEw JERSEY V. YARD.

NEW JERSEY v.

[Sup. Gt.

YARD.

1. A statute of a State, which declares that all charters of corporations granted
after its passage may be altered, amended, or repealed by the legislature,
does not necessarily apply to supplements to an existing charter which were
enacted subsequently to the statute.
2. Nor does a provision, which declares that "this supplement, and the charter
to which it is a supplement, may be altered or amended by the legislature,"
apply to a contract with the corporation made in a supplement thereafter
passed.
3. Such statutory reservations of the right to repeal, unlike similar constitutional
provisions, are only binding on a succeeding legislature so far as it chooses
to conform to them; and, if it so intends, an irrepealable legislative contract
may be made. It is, therefore, in every case a question whether the legislature making the contract intended that the former provision for repeal or
amendment should, by implication, become a part of the new contract.
4. In this case, the contract of 1865 for a specific rate of taxation is inconsistent
with any such implication, because: 1. There was a subject of dispute and
a fair adjustment of it for a valuable consideration on both sides. 2. The
contract assumed, by legislative requirement, the shape of a formal written
contract. 3. The terms of the contract, that "this tax shall be in lieu and
satisfaction of all other taxation or imposition whatsoever by or under the
authority of this State, or any law thereof," exclude, in view of the whole
transaction, the right of the State to revoke it at pleasure.

ERROR to the Court of Errors and Appeals in and for the
State of New Jersey.
The Morris and Essex Railroad Company was, by an act of
the legislature of New Jersey, passed Jan. 29, 1835, created a
corporation.
The fifteenth section of the charter enacted, that, as soon as
the net proceeds of said railroad amounted to seven per cent
on its costs, the corporation should pay to the treasurer of the
State a tax of one-half of one per cent on the cost of said road,
to be paid annually thereafter on the first Monday of January
of each year; provided, that no other tax or impost should be
levied or assessed upon the corporation.
The twentieth section reserved to the legislature the right
to alter, amend, or repeal the act, whenever it should think
proper.
A supplement to the charter, passed March 2, 1836, gave
power to build a branch and lateral roads, and repealed the
twentieth section of the original charter; but reserved the right

Oct. 1877.]

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

of the legislature to alter or amend the supplement, or the act
to which it is a supplement, whenever the public good may
require it.
On the 14th of February, 1846, a general act relating to
corporations was approved, which enacted that the charter of
every corporation which should thereafter be granted by the
legislature should be subject to alteration, suspension, and re.
peal, in the discretion of the legislature.
On March 28, 1862, a general tax act was approved, the
eighth section of which enacts that all private corporations
of the State, except those which, by virtue of any irrepealable
contract in their charters or other contracts with the State,
are expressly exempted from taxation, should be and were
thereby required to be respectively assessed and taxed at the
full amount of their capital stock paid in, and accumulated
surplus.
Sect. 13 enacts that the real estate of private corporations
situate within the State shall be assessed against said corporation in the township or ward in which it is located, in the same
manner as the real estate of individuals; and the amount of
such assessment shall be deducted from the amount of the capital stock, &c.
The twenty-first section repeals all acts and parts of acts,
whether special or local, or otherwise, inconsistent with the
provisions of the act.
Another supplement was approved on the 23d of March, 1865.
It authorizes a branch road through Boonton and to Paterson;
.rnd for that purpose empowers the company to exercise all
the powers and franchises given by the original act and supplements, subject, however, to all the restrictions, limitations, and
conditions of said original act and supplements which may
be applicable to the powers and franchises conferred by this
supplement.
The third section enacts that the tax of one-half of one per
cent, provided by the said original act of incorporation to be
paid by said company to the State whenever the net earnings
of the company amounted to seven per cent upon the cost of
the road, shall be paid at the expiration of one year from the
time when the road of the company shall be open and in use

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Ct.

to Phillipsburgh, and annually thereafter; which tax shall be
in lieu and satisfaction of all other taxation or imposition
whatsoever by or under the authority of the State, or any law
thereof: provided, that the section shall not go into effect or
be binding upon the company until it, by an instrument duly
executed under its corporate seal and filed in the office of
the secretary of State, shall have signified its assent hereto,
which assent shall be signified %ithin sixty days after the passage of the act, or the act shall be void.
The fifth section enacts that the act shall take effect immediately.
In due time, the company filed a paper under its seal, bearing date April 24, 1865, reciting said third section, and setting forth that the company had received a copy of the act,
and had considered it. It then declares that, in consideration of the terms and conditions of the said supplement, and
more especially of the third section thereof, the company has
assented, and does thereby assent, to the said act; and has
agreed, and does thereby agree, to be subject to the provisions
of the said act, and to pay the tax therein named, as therein
specified.
On the 5th of March, 1867, another supplement to the charter
was approved, which, after reciting that the company had lately
extended its railroad from Hackettstown to Phillipsburgh, gives
power to increase its stock and straighten its road, and declares
that the company for this purpose shall be invested with all
the powers conferred by the charter and supplements, subject
to the duties and liabilities thereby imposed. It enacts that
no tax by or under the authority of the State shall be imposed
upon any property purchased, held, or used by said company
for the purposes of its charter, or any of the supplements
thereto; except the tax of one-half of one per cent on the cost
of its road, which, by the said charter and the supplement
thereto approved on the twenty-third day of March, 1865- was
required to be paid by said company in lieu of all other taxes,
any act to the contrary notwithstanding.
No formal acceptance of this act was provided for or given.
On the 2d of April, 1873, an act, entitled "An Act to establish just rules for the taxation of railroad corporations, and to

Oct. 1877.]

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

rduce their acceptance and uniform adoption," was passed. The
preamble recites as follows :"Whereas, for the encouragement of railroad enterprise, laws
creating and regulating railways in this State usually provide for
the payment by them, in consideration of their chartered privileges,
of a fixed rate upon the capital stock, or the cost of their works, in
lieu of all other public impositions whatever; that it is nevertheless
contended that the property of such corporations, being largely acquired for or through the growth and extension of their prosperity,
should contribute to the charges and expenses essential for municipal
and county purposes; that it is desirable, in order to the avoidance of
litigation and future dissatisfaction, that such municipal and county
taxation shall be authorized, and that the same shall be permanently
fixed and regulated."
Sect. 1 then enacts that all taxation upon all railroad companies occupying and using railroads in the State, whether as
lessees or otherwise, shall hereafter be made as follows: First,
Such companies shall pay upon the cost, equipment, and appendages of said railroads, respectively, a State tax after such rate
of taxation as may have heretofore been fixed by law upon such
companies, or, in default thereof, after the rate of one-half of one
per cent upon such cost. Second, A tax of one per cent on
the value of the corporations' real estate (except the track, roadbed, and ten acres at the termini), for the benefit of the counties
and municipalities in which it lies.
The ninth section makes the corporation liable for city
improvements beneficial to such property, for the purposes for
which it is used, except that made subject to State tax, but
provides that the laws relating in other respects to such city
improvements be not thereby altered.
The act then recites that "whereas certain railroad corporations, owning or occupying railroads in this State, claim exemption from all taxation, whether State, county, or municipal,
further than is provided for by their charters, or by special
laws for their benefit now existing, which claims, even if legal,
subject said corporations to public ill-will, and make it their
interest to forego the same and agree to the scheme of taxation
hereby established."
Sect. 10 then enacts that any such railroad corporation may,

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Or.

within six months from the approval of the act, make and
execute, under its common seal and the signature of its president, and file in the office of the secretary of State, a declaration,
in writing, surrendering all claim to exemption from taxation
by it heretofore had or made, and accepting the provisions of
this act in lieu thereof.
Sect. 11 repeals all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
said act, and declares that the act shall take effect immedi.
ately.
Yard, the tax commissioner provided for in the act, made the
statement and valuation required by it with respect to the
Morris and Essex Railroad Company's real estate. By this it
appears that its real estate, to the amount of $2,089,520, is subject to a tax of one per cent for the years 1873, 1874, and
1875, for the benefit of the counties and municipalities where
it is situate.
This valuation was removed to the Supreme Court of New
Jersey by certiorari; and the reasons assigned for setting it
aside were four: Ist, The commissioner had no power to make
the valuation. 2d, The act of 1873 does not apply to the
Morris and Essex Railroad Company. 3d, If it does apply,
it impairs a contract between the State and the company.
4th, General illegality and violation of vested rights.
The contract was, it is alleged, created by the company's
acceptance under its seal of the said third section of the supplement to its charter, approved March 23, 1865.
The Supreme Court rendered a judgment sustaining the
assessment.
That judgment having been affirmed by the Court of Errors
and Appeals, the State of New Jersey, on the prosecution of the
company, brought the case here.
Mr. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen and 31r. J. G. Shipman for
the plaintiff in error.
The supplements of 1865 and 1867, and the acceptance by
the Morris and Essex Railroad Company, constitute an irrepealable contract between it and the State. State v. Miller,
30 N. J. L. 368; 2 Kent, Com. 306; Gordon v. Appeal Tax
Court, 3 How. 333; Commonwealth v. Essex Company, 13 Gray
(Mass.), p39 ; Miller v. The State, 15 Wall. 478; State v. James,

Oct. 1877.]

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

4 Mo. 570; Millin v. New York & Erie Railroad Co., 21
Barb. (N. Y.) 513; Commonwealth v. Canal Company, 66
Pa. 41; Zabriski v. Hackensack Railroad Co., 18 N. J. Eq.
178; Railroad v. Teazie, 39 Me. 587; City of Eric v. Erie
Canal Co., 59 Pa. 174; Story v. Jersey j- Bergen Point
Railroad Co., 16 N. J. Eq. 13 ; State v. Person, 32 N. J. L.
134; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454; Fleteher v. Peek,
6 Cranch, 87; State v. Jersey City, 81 N. J. L. 576; The Rome
of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430; Humphrey v. Pegues,
16 id. 244; iMcGee v. 11!athias, 4 id. 156; Jefferson Branch
Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 439 ; New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164; State Bank of Ohio v. .Knoop, 16 How. 369; Cooley,
Const. Lim. 279-281; JIcGavisk v. T/he State, 34 N. J. L.
509.
If the contract be repealable, the legislature did not, by the
act of 1873, in fact, repeal it; nor did it so intend. Erie Railway
Co. v. The State, 31 N. J. L. 531; Constitution of New Jersey,
art. 4, sect. 7; State v. irinton, 3 Zab. (N. J.) 529; State v.
Brannin, 2 id. 485; 31echanics' J6 Traders' Bank v. Bridge and
Boyer, 30 N. J. L. 113; State v. M1iller, supra, and 31 N. J. L.
529 ; State v. Jersey City, supra.
31r. Robert Gilchrist, contra.
The act of April 2, 1873, subjects to the new taxes the Moiris and Essex Railroad Company, unless it has an irrepealable
contract with the State. Proprietors of Bridges v. Hoboken
Company, 2 Beas. 98; State v. 3iller,
M
30 N. J. L. 368; 31 id.
529.
The act of 1865 and its acceptance do not create an irrepealable contract as to taxation; nor does that of 1867. The
original act incorporating the company, and the subsequent
amendments and supplements, are to be treated as one act of
legislation; and the act of March 2, 1836, granting a supplement to the charter, which the company accepted, expressly
reserved the right of amendment or repeal. Story and Washington, JJ., in 4 Wheat. 684; State v. llayor, 31 N. J. L.
580 ; lewark City Bank v. The Assessor, 30 id. 22; State v.
Bergen, 34 id. 439; State v. Douglass, id. 84; State v. Person,
32 id. 134; M21orris Canal v. State, 4 Zab. (N. J.) 70 ; Delaware
&4Raritan Canal and Camden & Amboy R. &. T. Co. v. Bari-

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Ct.

tan & Delaware Bay Railroad Co., 16 N. J. Eq. 821; Bank of
Utica v. M1agher, 18 Johns. (N. Y.) 344; Oleson v. Green Bay
Company, 36 Wis. 889; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454;
Tomlinson v. Branch,id. 460; HYumphreys v. Peues, 16 id. 244;
Walker v. Whitehead, id. 814; Trask v. Maguire, 18 id. 391;
North M11issouri Railroad v. -Maguire, 20 id. 46 ; United States
v. Hlerron, id. 251 ; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 id. 527 ; Iron Bank
v. Pittsburgh,37 Pa. 349; lMorgan v. Louisiana, 98 U. S. 217;
West Wisconsin Railway Co. v. Supervisors, id. 595; Att'y- Gen.
v. Lupton Board, 2 Jur. x. s. 180; Cooley, Const. Lim. 281.
MR. JUSTICE MIER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Court of Errors and Appeals
of the State of New Jersey.
The plaintiff invokes the jurisdiction of this court, on the
ground that an act of the legislature of that State, approved
April 2, 1873, concerning taxation of railroad corporations,
impairs the obligation of a contract between the State and the
plaintiff, found in an act of March 23, 1865, and the written
acceptance of that act by the company, dated April 24 of that
year.
The third section of the act of 1865 reads as follows: "Be it enacted, that the tax of one-half of one per cent provided
by their said original act of incorporation, to be paid by the said
company to the State whenever the net earnings of the said company amount to seven per cent upon the cost of the road, shall be
paid at the expiration of one year from the time when the road of
the said company shall be open and in use to Phillipsburgh, and
annually thereafter, which tax shall be in lieu and satisfaction of
all other taxation or imposition whatsoever, by or under the authority of this State, or any law thereof: Provided,that this section
shall not go into effect or be binding upon the said company until
the said company, by an instrument duly executed under its corporate seal, and filed in the office of the secretary of State, shall
have signified its assent hereto, which assent shall be signified within
sixty days after the passage of this act, or this act shall be void."
The act of 1873 imposed a more burdensome tax than this
on all railroad companies not protected by irrepealable contracts;
and the Court of Errors held that this statute was applicable

Oct. 1877.]

NEw JERSEY V. YARD.

to the plaintiff, because the contract of 1865, which had been
formally accepted by the company, was repealable by the legislature of the State.
The single question, therefore, for our consideration is,
whether the act of March 23, 1865, and its acceptance by the
Morris and Essex Railroad Company, constituted a contract
which could not be impaired by any subsequent legislation of
the State.
The Court of Errors decided, that, while the act of 1865 was
a contract, it must be taken in connection with other legislation
of the State on that subject, by which the legislature reserved
the right to alter and amend the contract, and that this right
entered into and became a part of it; therefore, the exercise
of this right did not impair its obligation.
The solution of the question here presented must depend,
first, upon an inquiry into this supposed reservation of power;
and, secondly, into the essential character of the contract of
1865.
The case before us differs from those in which, by the Constitution of some of the States, this right to alter, amend, and
repeal all laws creating corporate privileges becomes an inalienable legislative power. The power thus conferred cannot be
limited or bargained away by any act of the legislature, because the power itself is beyond legislative control. The right
asserted in this case to amend or repeal legislative grants to
corporations, being itself but the expression of the will or purpose of the legislature for one particular session or term of the
State of New Jersey, cannot bind any succeeding legislature
which may choose to make a grant or a contract not subject
to be altered or repealed; or, if any succeeding legislature to
that of 1846, which enacted that "the charter of every corporation which shall hereafter be granted by the legislature shall
be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal in the discretion
of the legislature," shall grant a charter or amend a charter,
declaring in the act that it shall not be subject to alteration
and repeal, the former act is of no force in that case. So it
can by a general law repeal this general reservation of the right
to repeal, and all special reservations in separate charters. It
follows that, unlike the constitutional provision in other States,

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Ot.

it is in New Jersey a question, in every case of a contract made
by the legislature, whether that body intended that the right
to change or repeal it should inhere in it, or whether, like other
contracts, it was perfect, and not within the power of the legislature to impair its obligation.
The Morris and Essex Railroad Company was chartered by
an act of the legislature, Jan. 29, 1835. Sect. 16 enacts that,
"as soon as the net proceeds of said railroad shall amount
to seven per cent (in any one year) upon its cost, the said
corporation shall pay to the treasurer of the State a tax of
one-half of one per cent on the cost of said road, to be paid
annually thereafter on the first Monday of January of each
year; provided, that no other tax or impost shall be levied or
assessed."
By sect. 20, "the legislature reserve to themselves the
right to alter, amend, or repeal this act, whenever they think
proper."
The next succeeding legislature, in a supplement to the
charter, repealed sect. 20, and substituted this language: "The
legislature reserve to themselves the right to alter or amend
this supplement, or the act to which this is a supplement,
whenever the public good may require it." It is this last
clause which counsel insist became, by operation of law, a
part of the contract of the act of 1865, concerning taxation,
already quoted.
The argument is that the original charter, and all subsequent
amendments and supplements, are to be treated merely as parts
of one act, and that this reserve of the right to alter or amend
became a part of every new law which has reference to that
railroad company.
In support of this proposition, the cases of Newark City Bank
v. Te Assessor, 80 N. J. L. 22, and State v. Bergen, 34 id. 439,
are cited.
They announce the general principle that a charter and its
amendments are to be considered as acts in par .materiain construing them, and they do little more. The precise point held
is, that a city charter, being declared to be a public act, supplements and amendments to it are also to be treated as public
acts. But this falls short of establishing the principle that a

Oct. 1877.]

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

reservation in a charter to a private corporation, of the right
to repeal or amend it, shall extend to every subsequent amendment of the charter. It is not easy to see why such a provision
should be extended beyond the terms in which it is expressed ;
and all the force which properly belongs to it is given when
the exemption from the constitutional provision against impairing the obligation of contracts is extended as far as the language of the exemption justifies, and it should be extended no
further by implication. The language in the statute we are
construing covers the supplement of 1836 and the original act,
and nothing more, - "the right to alter or amend this supplement, or the act to which this is a supplement," - leaving future
supplements to make the same reservation, if the legislature so
intends.
Sect. 6 of the general act of 1846 is by its terms limited to
charters of corporations granted after its passage; and it requiresa very strong implication to make it applicable to amendments
to charters in existence before its passage, though the amendments were executed subsequently.
Bu, as we have already said, since the legislature which
passed the act of 1865 had the power to make a contract which.
should not be subject to repeal or modification by one of the
parties-to it without the consent of the other, the main question
here is, Did they intend to make such a contract?
The principal function of a legislative body is not to make
contracts, but to make laws. These laws are put into a form
which, in all countries using the English language and inheriting the English common law, is called a statute.
Unless forbidden by some exceptional constitutional provision, the same authority which can make a law can repeal
it. The Constitution of the United States has imposed such
a limitation upon the legislative power of all the States, by
declaring that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract. The frequency with which this court
has been called on to declare State laws void, because they do
impair the obligation of contracts, shows how very important
and far-reaching that provision is.
It may safely be said that in far the larger number of cases
brought to this court under that clause of the Constitution, the
VOL. V.

8

NEw JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Ct.

question has been as to the existence and nature of the contract,
and not the construction of the law which is supposed to impair it; and the greatest trouble we have had on this point has
been in regard to what may be called legislative contracts, contracts found in statute laws of the State, if they existed at
all. It has become the established law of this court that a
legislative enactment, in the ordinary form of a statute, may
contain provisions which, when accepted as the basis of action
by individuals or corporations, become contracts between them
and the State within the protection of the clause referred to
of the Federal Constitution.
The difficulty in this class of cases has always been to distinguish what is intended by the legislature to be an exercise
of its ordinary legislative function in making laws, which, like
other laws, are subject to its full control by future amendments
and repeals, from what is intended to become a contract between the State and other parties when the terms of the statute
have been accepted and acted upon by those parties. This has
always been a very nice point; and, when the supposed contract
exists only in the form of a general statute, doubts still ecur,
after all our decisions on that class of questions.
These doubts are increased when the terms of the statute
relate to a matter which is in its essential nature one of exclusive legislative cognizance, and which at the same time requires
money or labor to be expended by individuals or corporations.
In such cases, the legislature may be supposed to be merely
exercising its power of regulating the burdens which are to be
borne for the public service, in which case it could be modified
from time to time as legislative discretion might determine ; or
it might be a contract founded on a fair consideration moving
from the party concerned to the State, and which in that case
would be beyond the power of the State to impair. Statutes
fixing the taxes to be levied on corporations, partake, in a
striking manner, of this dual character, and require for their
construction a critical examination of their terms, and of the
circumstances under which they are created.
. The writer of this opinion has always believed, and believes
now, that one legislature of a State has no power to bargain
away the right of any succeeding legislature to levy taxes in

Oct. 1877.]

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

as full a manner as the Constitution will permit. But, so long
as the majority of this court adhere to the contrary doctrine,
he must, when the question arises, join -with the other judges
in considering whether such a contract has been made.
In the case now under consideration, it is conceded on all
hands that the act of 1865 was a contract for a tax of one-half
of one per cent per annum on the cost of the Morris and Essex
Railroad, and no more. But counsel for defendant says the
contract was repealable; that the legislature of its own volition
could impose other and more burdensome taxes, at its discretion;
that it was a contract so long as the legislature of New Jersey
was satisfied with it, and no longer. It is conceded, also, that
this construction of it cannot be sustained, unless we are bound
to import into it either the reservation clause of the act of 1836,
or what is called the interpretation act of 1846. We have
already shown how little reason there is for doing this on general principles of construction. We think it still clearer that
it cannot be done, because it is inconsistent with the legislative
intent in passing the act of 1865.
1. The legislature was not willing to rest this contract in
the usual statutory form alone, depending for its validity as a
contract upon some action of the corporation under it to bind
it to its terms; but they required of the company a formal written acceptance within sixty days, or else it became wholly inoperative. The company duly executed this acceptance. There
was, then, the complete formal, written instrument evidencing
this contract, signed by the presiding officers of the two houses
of the New Jersey legislature, and the governor, for one party,
and the president and secretary and seal of the railroad company, of the other party. It does seem as if the legislative
intention was to make a contract in the same manner, and on
the same terms of equal obligation, as other contracts are made,
and not to pass a statute which it could repeal or amend the
day after it was signed by the parties.
2. There was a well-understood subject of contract. The
corporation wished authority to build a branch road or roads,
with favorable route, and power to acquire right of way; and
the State wished the vexed question of the right to tax the
corporation to be settled. For the company denied the right.

NEW JERSEY V. YARD.

[Sup. Ct.

of the State to tax them under their charter, until the road
paid them a net income of seven per cent per annum on its
cost.
The legislature said, If you will consent to pay the one-half
of one per cent tax as originally agreed, and commence to do
this within one year from the time the road shall be open and
in use to Phillipsburgh, we will authorize an increase of ten
millions of your capital stock and the franchises you seek as
to the branch roads, and will agree that the tax shall be fixed
at one-half of one per cent. Here was a subject of disagreement adjusted, additional rights granted, and the tax fixed,
both as to its rate and the time of commencement.
Can it be believed that it was intended by either party to
this contract that, after it was signed by both parties, one was
bound for ever, and the other only for a day ? That it was intended to be a part of the contract that the State of New Jersey
was, at her option, to be bound or not? That there was implied
in it, when it was offered to the acceptance of the company,
the right on the part of the legislature to alter or amend it at
pleasure? If the State intended to reserve this right, what
necessity for asking the company to accept in such formal manner the terms of a contract which the State could at any time
make to suit itself ?
3. The language used by the legislature is inconsistent with
the right claimed.
"Which tax (one-half of one per cent) shall be in lieu and
satisfaction of all other taxation or impositions whatsoever by
or under authority of this State, or any law thereof." Is there
here to be implied "except such laws as may hereafter be
enacted"? Such a provision would be to nullify the whole
contract. How could the tax be in lien and satisfaction of all
other taxation, if other taxes might be imposed next day? or
how can it be said to be in satisfaction of all taxes whatsoever
under authority of the State, if the State could immediately
impose another and more burdensome tax?
We admit the force of the doctrine, that, when it is asserted
that a State has baigained away her right -of taxation in a given
case, the contract must be clear, and cannot be made out by
dubious implications.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BOON.

But of the existence of the present contract there is no doubt.
Its meaning and its terms are clear enough, and, taken alone,
no one denies but that it is a contract which would be protected
by the Constitution of the United States. The implication is
of a right to revoke it, and comes from the other quarter, and
is one which we do not think exists by fair construction, and
which we do not feel at liberty to import into the contract to
defeat its manifest purpose.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
M-u. JUSTICE BRADLFY took no part in the consideration of

this case.

INsURANCE, Comexwy v. BooN.
1. Where the issues are tried by the court, its finding belongs to the record as
fully as does the verdict of a jury.
2. Where the court tried the issues of fact, and its opinion, embodying its findings and the conclusions of law thereon, was filed concurrently with the
entry of the judgment, but there was no formal finding of facts, and the court,
at the next following term, upon a rule awarded, and, after hearing the parties, made an order that a special finding, with the conclusions of law conformable to that opinion so filed, be entered nunc pro tunc, and made part
of the record as of the term when the judgment was rendered, - Held, that
the order was within the discretion of the court, and that by it such special
finding became a part of the record of the cause, and that the judgnet
upon it is, without a bill of exceptions, subject to review here.
8. A policy of insurance for one year, issued Sept. 2, 1864, upon certain goods
then in a store at the city of Glasgow, Mo., contained the following stipulation : "Provided always, and it is hereby declared, that the company shall
not be liable to make good any loss or damage by fire which may happen or
take place by means of any invasion, insurrection, riot, or civil commotion,
or of any military or usurped power." At an early hour on the morning of
the fifteenth day of October, 1864, an armed force of the rebels, under military organization, surrounded and attacked the city. It was defended by
Colonel Harding and the forces of the United States under his command,
and a battle between them and the rebel forces continued for many hours.
When it became apparent to Colonel Harding that the city could not be
successfully defended, he. in order to prevent the military stores deposited
in the city hall from falling into the possession of the rebel forces, set
fire to the city hall. It, with its contents, was consumed. Without other
interference, agency, or instrumentality, the fire spread to the building
next adjacent to the city hall, and from building to building through two
other intermediate buildings to the store containing the goods insured, and

