Oct. 1877.1

Ex

PARTE RAILROAD

C0.

Suppose the rule were otherwise, still a new hearing would
not benefit the complainant, as the testimony of the other three
witnesses is abundantly sufficient to establish the defence of
prior knowledge and use.
Decree affirmed.

Ex PARTE R I

OD CoPANY.

1. Where the final decree of the Circuit Court is inconsistent with an interlocutory
decree granting affirmative relief upon a cross-bill in the same suit, a party
adversely affected by such final decree, where the matter in dispute is sufficient, has a right to appeal to this court, which, if withheld, may be enforced
by mandamus.
2. An assignment by a defendant of his interest in the subject-matter of a pending suit does not necessarily defeat the suit. The assignee is bound by what
is done against the assignor; and may either come in and assume the burden
of the litigation in his own name, or act in the name of his assignor.
PETITION for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
The facts important to the determination of this case are as

follows :-

The Montgomery and Eufaula Railroad Company, in 1860,
borrowed $80,000 from the State of Alabama, and executed a
mortgage upon its property and franchises to secure the payment. Afterwards, the State indorsed bonds of the company
to the amount of $1,280,000, and a statutory lien was created
upon the same property and franchises as further security for
the bonds. In 1870, the company issued a series of bon&s to
the amount of $500,000, and secured the payment of them by
a deed of trust upon the same property.
Default having been made in the payment of the interet
upon the last-named bonds, Samuel A. Strang, claiming to be
the holder of some of them, filed May 10, 1872, a bill for the
foreclosure of the mortgage, in the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama, then possessing
circuit court powers. To this bill, the trustees named in the
mortgage, the railroad company, and one of its judgment creditors, were alone made parties. No mention was made of the

EX

PARTE RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

first mortgage to the State. On the 17th January, 1874, the
South and North Alabama Railroad Company was, upon its
own petition, admitted as a defendant in the suit, with leave
to answer and file a cross-bill. In its answer it set forth its
ownership of the $30,000 mortgage to the State, and insisted
upon the priority of its security; and, in the cross-bill, prayed a
sale of the mortgaged property, for the purpose of paying the
debt.
On the 1st of April, 1875, Mason Young and others, claiming to be the owners of certain of the bonds secured by the
statutory lien, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama to enforce that lien.
To this bill the Montgomery and Eufaula Railroad Company,
the South and North Alabama Railroad Company, and the trustees under the Strang mortgage, were made parties. The South
and North Alabama Railroad Company answered, setting up its
lien, and asking that it might be enforced as superior to that of
any other claimants. In the answer, itwas stated that, on the 20th
April, 1876, the company had transferred its claim to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company. In June, 1876, the
Strang suit was, by operation of law, transferred to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Middle Distri6t of Alabama.
After this transfer, the Strang and Young suits, with the
cross-bill, were submitted to the court upon the pleadings,
proof, and admissions of the solicitors for the determination of
the question, whether the mortgage claim of the South and
North Alabama Railroad Company was paramount and superior to the other claims and liens asserted and disclosed in the
pleadings of the other parties to the several causes; and, upon
this submission, the court decided in favor of that company,
finding the amount due to be $61,212, and entered an interlocutory decree to that effect, reserving all further questions. At
a subsequent term, on the 6th of June, 1877, each of the several
causes came on to be heard upon the prayer of the cross-bill of
the South and North Alabama Company, for an order to sell
the mortgaged property, and pay its debt out of the proceeds,
and upon the motion of the several complainants in the original
bills for a reference to ascertain the amount due for costs, solicitors' fees, and outstanding unpaid receiver's certificates. Upon

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE RAILROAD CO.

this hearing, a decree was entered in each of the suits directing
the sale, as asked for, and the application of the proceeds to the
payment of the claim of the Alabama Company in preference
to that of the other mortgage creditors. From these decrees
Young and his co-complainants appealed, and filed the necessary
bond for a supersedeas;but at the same term, and the next day
after the appeal was taken, the court again considered the cause,
upon the motion of those holding claims adverse to that company for a decree settling their equities as between themselves,
and directing a sale of the property subject to the claim or lien
of that company, "to the end that this litigation, except in so far
as it concerns the South and North Alabama Railroad Company,
may be terminated;" and it appearing to the court that the
parties to such motion were entitled to a decree as to their
several equities as between each other, the two suits of Strang
and Young were consolidated, and a decree was rendered,
July 3, 1877, settling the equities of the parties, exclusive of
the Alabama Company, ordering a sale of the property, subject
to the lien of that company, and directing that the purchaser
take title subject to such lien, as the same might finally be adjudicated and determined. It was also adjudged that all the
rights and equities of that company should remain the same in all
respects as if that decree had not been rendered, such company
"not being a party to the submission, and, in the opinion of the
court, as a matter of law, not a party to the decree, although
appearing and claiming to be a party, and insisting upon the
right as a party to object thereto."
On the same day with the rendition of this decree, the South
and North Alabama Company prayed an appeal to this court
to operate as a supersedeas upon the filing of the necessary
bond; but the court refused to grant the appeal or accept a
bond, being of the opinion that the company had no right to
appeal, or to supersede the execution of the decree.
The South and North Alabama Railroad Company now petitions for a mandamus requiring the Circuit Court to grant the
appeal and accept a good and sufficient supersedeas bond.
Mr. Thomas G. Jones for the petitioner.
The decree of July 3, 1877, is final, and the petitioner, as a
party to the suit, had the right to an appeal to this court. Stovall

EX PARTE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Banks, 10 Wall. 583; Bailroad Company v. Bradleys, 7 id.
575 ; The Douro, 3 id. 564; United States v. Adams, 6 id. 101:
xEparte Jordan, 94 U. S. 248; Phillips's Practice, 76-81.
The assignment of the debt by the petitioner to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company did not take away
that right. Partridge v. Partridge, 38 Pa. St. 78; Adams
v. Parker, 12 Gray (Mass.), 53; Warden v. Adams, 15 Mass.
233; Smith v. Helley, 27 Me. 237; Lyford v. Boss, 33 id. 197;
Crinion v. Nelson, 7 Mo. 466; Davies v. Austin, I Yes. 247;
Thomas on Mortgages, 104; Story, Eq. P1., sects. 156, 351.
The appeal having been improperly denied, mandamus is
the proper remedy. United States v. Gomez, 3 Wall. 752;
Ex parte Jordan, supra; Life and Tire Insurance Company of
New York v. Adams, 9 Pet. 571.
31r. D. S. Troy, contra.
The appeal was properly denied. Simpson v. Greeley, 20
Wall. 152; Stratton v. Jarvis Brown, 8 Pet. 4; Neal v. Singleton, 26 Ark. 491; Combs v. Jefferson Pond Draining Co.,
3 Metc. (Ky.) 72; Strong v. Winslow, 3 Chand. (Wis.) 21;
Amery v. Amery, 26 Wis. 152; High, Extraordinary Remedies,
sects. 8-10.
The petitioner having assigned its debt, and thus transferred
its interest in the subject-matter -in controversy, lost any right
it might otherwise have had to an appeal. Story, Eq. PI.,
sects. 156, 349, 351, 352; Mitford & Tyler, Eq. P1., p. 164;
iLills v. ifoag, 7 Paige (N. Y.), Ch. 18; Card v. Bird, 10 id.
427; People v. Wilson, 26 Cal. 127; Griggs v. Detroit, 10
MNich. 117; Solomon v. Solomon, 13 Sim. 516; Johnson v.
Thomas, 11 Beav. 502.
Moreover, its lien, whatever it might be, was expressly saved
from the operation of the decree.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WAIT, delivered the opinion of the
court.
This petition for a mandamus is resisted, upon the general
ground that the South and North Alabama Railroad Company
cannot appeal, because its rights are not injuriously affected by
the decree. That company was a party to each of the suits consolidated for the purposes of the decree. It was, therefore, a

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE RAILROAD CO.

party to the consolidated suit, and entitled to be heard upon
the pleadings as they stood before the consolidation, since no
change in that particular was ordered or deemed necessary
by the court. Among the pleadings in the Strang suit, thus
brought into the consolidated suit, was the cross-bill of this
company praying affirmative relief in the final determination
of the cause. It matters not that at a former day in the term
a special decree bad been rendered upon the subject-matter of
the cross-bill, and that an appeal from that decree had been
taken; for "a cross-bill is a mere auxiliary suit and a dependency of the original." Cross v. De Valle, 1 Wall. 5. As we
have said in Ayres et al. v. Carver et al., 17 How. 591, "both
the original and cross-bill constitute one suit," and ought to.
be heard at the same time. Consequently, "any decision or
decree in the proceedings upon the cross-bill is not a final decree in the suit, and . . . not the subject of an appeal to this
court. . . . The decree, whether maintaining or dismissing the,
bill, disposes of a proceeding simply incidental to the principal
matter in litigation, and can only be reviewed on an appeal
from the final decree disposing of the whole case. That appeal
brings up all the proceedings for re-examination, when the
party aggrieved by any determination in respect to the crossbill has the opportunity to review it, as in the case of any other
interlocutory proceeding in the case." A cross-bill must grow
out of the matters alleged in the original bill, and is used to
bring the whole dispute before the court, so that there may be
a complete decree touching the subject-matter of the action.
2 Daniell, Ch. 1548. The South and North Alabama Company deemed it necessary, for the protection of its rights in the
mortgaged property, that in any sale which might be ordered
provision should be made for the payment of its claim out of
the proceeds, insisting, for that purpose, that its lien was prior
in time to that of either of the other mortgage creditors. To
accomplish this, a cross-bill was necessary, and it was accordingly filed. The decree upon this bill being, under the ruling
in Ayres v. Carver, interlocutory only, was superseded by that
of July 8, which finally disposed of the cause in a manner entirely inconsistent with its provisions. It is clear, therefore,
that the decree as rendered did, in effect, deny the company
VOL. V.

15

EX PARTE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the relief it asked, and that, if there were nothing more in the
case, redress might be had by an appeal.
But it is claimed that, as in the answer of the South and
North Alabama Company to the bill of Young, it was stat6d
that pending that suit, and consequently pending that of Strang
and the cross-bill; the company had assigned its debt, it had
now no right to insist upon affirmative relief in the action, and,
therefore, could not appeal. In both the suits it was a defendant against whom relief was asked. It defended against the
claims of the several complainants, and, as an incident to that
defence, sought to obtain protection for its own rights. It is
well settled that an assignment by a defendant of his interest
in a litigation does not necessarily defeat a suit. His assignee
taking pendente lite is bound by what is done against him.
The assignee may, at his own election, come in by an appropriate application, and make himself a party, so as to assume
the burden of the litigation in his own name, or he may act in
the name of his assignor. A pendente lite assignment carries
with it an implied license by the assignor for the use of his
name in the cause by the assignee to protect the rights assignee
Of this, the plaintiffs in the action cannot complain, because
the assignee is bound by all that is done, whether a party by
name or not. Acting upon this principle, notwithstanding the
statement in the answer, the company has all the time, in the
whole course of the subsequent proceedings, been treated as
the representative of the interest of its assignee. Subsequent
to the answer, and during the May Term, 1876, the cause was
submitted by consent of all parties for decision and decree upon
the question whether the mortgage claim or lien asserted and
disclosed in the answer and cross-bill in the Strang suit and in
the answer in the Young suit was, and still continued to be,
paramount and superior to the claims and liens of the other
parties. Upon this submission, the court found that the lien
was paramount, and entered an interlocutory decree to that
effect. In addition to this, on the 6th June, 1877, the parties
stipulated, for the purposes of evidence in the cause, that the
South and North Alabama Company was the owner of the bonds
and the mortgage to secure them. It is thus apparent that, for
the purposes of the suit, by the understanding of all the parties,

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

EXPRESS CO.

that company represented the claim which was being enforced
in its name, and was entitled to take such steps as might be
deemed necessary for the protection of those in whose behalf
it was acting.
A writ of mandamus may issue directing the circuit judge,
or the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama, to allow the appeal prayed for as of July 3,
1877, and, upon the allowance of the appeal, to accept as of the
same date good and sufficient security for a supersedeas if
offered; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE COPANY V. EXPRESS COMPANY.
A policy, issued to an express company, insuring goods and merchandise in its
care for transportation while on board cars or other conveyances, contained
the following provision: "It is a further condition of this insurance, that no
loss is to be paid in case of collision: except fire ensue, and then only for the
loss and damage by fire. And that no loss is to be paid arising from petroleum or other explosive oils." Certain goods in the possession of the company, and in the course of transportation by it, were in an express freight-car,
forming part of a railway train, which collided with another train composed
mainly of oil-cars loaded with petroleum. Immediately upon the collision, the
petroleum burst into flames, which enveloped and destroyed the freight-car
and the goods. Held, that the loss thereby sustained by the express company
was not covered by the policy.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. N. B. ifoxie for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Nash, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action upon two policies of insurance against
fire, issued by the defendants to the plaintiffs below, an express
company, and covering goods, wares, and merchandise in their
care for transportation while on board cars or other conveyances, including water and stage routes, embracing the entire
routes of the company designated on a map specified. The
nolioies, though differing in the sums insured, were alike in all

