UNITED STATES V. MEIGS.

[Sup. Ct.

nothing in the nature of things to prevent their adoption in
lieu of the attachment. The point of power cannot be thus
controlled.
That a State can subject land within its limits belonging to
non-resident owners to debts due to its own citizens as it can
legislate upon all other local matters; that it can prescribe the
mode and process by which it is to be reached, - seems to me
very plain.
I am not willing to declare that a sovereign State cannot
subject the land within its limits to the payment of debts
due to its citizens, or that the power to do so depends upon
the fact whether its statute shall authorize the property to be
levied upon at the commencement of the suit or at its termination. This is a matter of detail, and I am of opinion, that
if reasonable notice be given, with an opportunity to defend
when appearance is made, the question of power will be fully
satisfied.

UMNID STATES V. MEIGS.
The deputy-clerk, crier, and messengers of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia are not entitled to the twenty per cent additional compensation
granted by the joint resolution of Congress approved Feb. 28, 1867 (14 Sta*
669).

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M1r. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
JTr. A. G. Riddle and Mr. _Francis 1ifiller, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Of the appelleew, one was a deputy-clerk of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, another was the crier of that
court, and two others were messengers. They each sued in the
Court of Claims to recover the additional compensation allowed
to certain employ6s of the government by the joint resolution of
Congress of Feb. 28, 1867. 14 Stat. 569.
MR. JUSTiCE MILLER

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MEIGS.

The Court of Claims finds the above facts, and while it says,
in what purports, to be an opinion, that it believes that the
resolution refers to clerks and employgs of the executive branches
of the government alone, and does not extend to those of the
judiciary, it nevertheless renders a judgment for the claimants.
We concur with the Court of Claims in the opinion that the
resolution does not extend to the officers and employgs of the
judicial department of the government, and though in some
instances it may not be easy to say to which department a
claimant may belong, we have no difficulty in holding that
each of the present claimants belongs to that department.
The deputy-clerk, Meigs, whose case is the principal one,
was appointed by the clerk of the court, and the latter was
appointed by the court. The deputy served at a salary fixed
by contract between him and the clerk. He was also paid by
the clerk, and worked for the clerk, and performed services
which it was the duty of the clerk to perform, and for which
the clerk received compensation by fees paid by the litigants
for whom those services were rendered. It is very difficult
to see how this deputy-clerk can be called an employ6 of the
government at all. The government was never liable to him
for any salary at any time, and, if the principal clerk had failed
to pay him the $2,000, the government clearly would not have
been liable for it. How, then, can it be liable for the additional twenty per cent?
Mulloy, the crier, and Taylor and Grimes, the messengers,
were employds of the court,- the first appointed by the court
and the others by the marshal, to perform services immediately
in connection with the court and its judges; and, if employ6s
of the government at all, they certainly belong to the judicial
department, and not to the executive.
The case of Manning, 13 Wall. 578, is relied on as covering
the case of the present claimants. Manning was a guard in
the jail of the penitentiary of the District of Columbia. He
was appointed by the warden of the jail, and his compensation
fixed by the Secretary of the Interior. Whether the warden
of the jail, since the office has been disconnected from the
marshal's office, can be held to belong to the judicial branch
of the government, it is not necessary to decide; but a decision

UNITED STATES V. MCLEAN.

[Sup. Ct

which would recognize all the county jails, penitentiaries, and
other prisons of the United States as belonging to the judicial,
as distinguished from the executive, department of government,
would, we imagine, excite surprise. It is very clear that
Manning was not an employ6 under the court, and that the
crier and the messengers are; and, if the deputy-clerk can be
said to be in the employment of any but his principal, he also
performs duties under the immediate control of the court.
The circumstance that in the emolument account of the clerk
the auditor allows him to deduct, from the fees which he would
otherwise pay into the treasury, the deputy's compensation, does
not make him an employ6 of the department. All claims paid
out of the treasury of the United States must be audited by
one of its officers, and approved by one of the comptrollers;
but their action in allowing or refusing to allow a claim proves
nothing as to which of these great constitutional divisions, executive, legislative, or judicial, the claimant belongs.
Judgment reversed, witk directions to dismiss tlte petitions.

UNiTED STATES v. MoLEA-w.
1. After the salary of a deputy-postmaster has been fixed, it cannot be increased

until a readjustment of it, based upon his quarterly returns, shall have been
made by the Postmaster-General.
2. Such readjustment is an executive act, taking effect in all cases prospectively;
and, if it be not performed, the law imposes no obligation upon the government to pay an increased salary.

8. Courts cannot enforce rights depending for their existence upon a prior per.
formance by an executive officer of certain duties which he has failed to
perform.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was an action by McLean to recover $569.50 for compensation which he claimed to be due him as deputy-postmaster
at Florence, Kansas, from April 14, 1871, to July 1, 1872.
The Court of Claims found in his favor, and rendered judgment for that amount. The United States appealed to this
court.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

