Oct. 1877.]

COLORADO

Co. v. COMMISSIONERS.

secure the payment of such an amount as may appear to be
due upon the indebtedness and liability secured thereby.
The decree of the Circuit Court, in so far as it affirms the
decree of the District Court declaring the mortgage in favor
of Mlilner fraudulent and void, will be reversed, and the cause
remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to reverse the
decree of the District Court rejecting the lien of that mortgage,
and to remand the cause to the District Court with instructions
to establish that lien, and to proceed further with the cause as
law and justice may seem to require; and it is
So ordered.

COLORADO COMPA.NY V. COMISSIONERS.
Where an act of Congress confirms a Mexican grant of five hundred thousand
acres.to the extent of eleven square leagues, to be selected within the limits
of the claim, according to the lines of the public surveys which the Commissioner of the General Land-Office is directed to cause to be run for the proper
location of the quantity confirmed, and provides that the confirmation shall
not be legally effective until payment by the confirmee of the expense of so
much of the surveys as inure to his benefit, - Hdd, 1. That, until such payment, the confirmee has no title to the eleven square leagues selected pursuant
to the act, nor a perfect equitable right to such title, and they are not subject
to taxation. 2. That Congress, after the surveys and plats shall have been
perfected, may enforce such payment by a sale of the lands, a resumption of
the grant, or other appropriate mode.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff in error in the District Court within and for the county of Pueblo, to recover
taxes paid by it under protest, July 1, 1874, which had been
assessed for the year 1873, on certain lands situate in that
county. The judgment rendered in its favor by that court
having been reversed by the Supreme Court of the Territory,
the cause was removed here by writ of error.
Manuel Armijo, governor of New Mexico, granted, Dec. 1,
1843, to Gervacio Nolan, lands in a part of that province, now
constituting Pueblo County, Colorado, which cover by estimate
five hundred thousand acres, bounded by mountains and natural
objects.
Congr-ess passed an act, approved July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 646,
ERROR

COLORADO

0.

V. COMIISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

entitled "An Act to confirm the title of the heirs of Gervacio
Nolan, deceased, to certain lands in the Territory of Colorado."
The first section confirmed the grant to the extent of eleven
square leagues. The remaining sections are as follows: "SECT. 2. That the exterior lines of said claim of eleven leagues,
as confirmed by this act, shall be adjusted according to the lines of
the public surveys as near as practicable, but in a compact form,
and the claims of all actual settlers falling within the limits of the
located claim above referred to shall be adjusted to the extent
which will embrace their several settlements upon their several
claims being established either as pre-emptions or homesteads according to law, and for the aggregate of the arears [areas] of claims
so established under the pre-emption or homestead acts, the heirs
of said Nolan, or their legal representatives, shall be entitled to
locate a like quanitity of public lands, not mineral, according to the
lines of the public surveys, and not to exceed one hundred and
sixty acres in one section: Provided, that such location shall be
made within the bounds of the original grant by the order of Cernelio Vigil to Gervacio Nolan.
" SECT.3.That it shall be the duty of the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office to cause the lines of the public surveys to be
run in the regions where a proper location would place the said
Nolan claim, and the expense of the same shall be paid out of any
moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated; but, before the
confirmation provided for by this act shall become legally effective,
the heirs of the said Gervacio Nolan, or their legal representatives,
shall pay the cost of so much of said surveys as inures to their
benefit respectively, and that all actual settlers whose claims may
be adjusted as valid shall have a right to enter their improvements
by a strict compliance with the pre-emption or homestead laws.
" SECT. 4. That upon the adjustment of said claim of the heirs of

Gervacio Nolan, according to the provision of this act, it shall be
the duty of the surveyor-general of the district to furnish properly
approved plats to said claimants, or their legal representatives, which
shall be evidence of title, the same to be done according to such instructions as may be given by the Commissioner of the General LandOffice: -Provided,however, that when said lands are so confirmed,
surveyed, and patented, they shall be held and taken to be in full
satisfaction of all further claims or demands against the United States.
" SECT. 5. That, immediately upon running the lines provided for
in the second section of this act, the surveyor-general of the district

Oct. 1877.]

COLORADO CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

shall notify the said heirs of Gervacio Nolan, or their legal reprosentatives, of the fact of such survey being made; and said claimants
shall, within three months after notice of such survey, select and
locate their said claims according to the provisions of this act, and
shall, within said time, furnish the surveyor-general with a description of such location, specifying the lines of the same; and the party
failing to make such selection and location, in such manner and
within such time, shall be deemed and held to have abandoned their
claim, and their lights and equities under this act shall cease and
terminate."
The plaintiff in error acquired all the rights and title of
the confirmees to the lands, and, a survey of them having been
made pursuant to the act, selected them within the required
time and in due form, to the extent, as was then believed, of
eleven square leagues. A plat and descriptive list, subject to
the revision of the Land Department at Washington, were prepared, and on April 27, 1872, delivered to the surveyor-general
of the Territory. Entries of portions of the selected lands
by claimants under the homestead and the pre-emption laws,
amounting to six thousand five hundred and sixty-five acres,
were subsequently approved by the Secretary of the Interior;
and the plaintiff was allowed by the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office to select, by way of indemnity, other lands
within the limits of the original grant. An error was also committed by including nine hundred and twenty acres in excess of
eleven square leagues, as, owing to the fact that at the time
the plat and list were made the meander line had not been run
along the south bank of the Arkansas River, where a portion
of the lands were situate, it was impossible to ascertain the exact
area of the selected tract. The nine hundred and twenty acres
were withdrawn larch 9, 1874. On the 30th of January
of that year, other lands were selected in lieu of those taken
by homestead and pre-emption claimants, and a descriptive
list of them delivered to the surveyor-general; but that officer
has not furnished either a statement of the cost of the survey
or the approved plats required by the act, and the plaintiff in
error has not paid any part of such cost.
The taxes in question were duly assessed, if the lands embraced within the preliminary selection of eleven square leagues,

COLORADO

CO. V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ot.

after dedicting therefrom the nine hundred and twenty acres
so withdrawn, and the six thousand five hundred and sixty-five
acres so entered, were on the first day of May, 1873, subject to
taxation.
Mr. lohn ). AcPherson for the plaintiff in error.
1. The act of Governor Armijo was ultra vires. He bad
no authority, under the act of the Mexican Congress of 1824
and the regulations of 1828, to grant to one person more than
eleven square leagues of public land. United States v. H~artnell's Executors, 22 How. 286 ; United States v. Vigil, 13 Wall.
450; United States v. Vallejo, 1 Black, 451. The grant of a
tract with ascertained boundaries which contains more than ten
times that quantity was therefore a nullity, and the title of the
plaintiff must be derived from the United States.
2. But the grant, if in any aspect of the case valid pro tanto,
did not vest a title to any specific tract of eleven square leagues.'
Some further official act, severing that quantity of land from
the public domain, and subjecting it to the operation of the
grant, was indispensable. This was not done by Mexico; and
the grantee had, under the treaty or the law of nations, nothing
beyond an equitable claim upon our government that eleven
square leagues should be set apart to him within the limits of
a larger tract. The United States might annex certain conditions precedent to the passing of the title to the lands. In
this view, it is perhaps immaterial whether the act be construed
as making a grant de novo, or as giving a partial confirmation
to an existing but void grant.
3. Payment by the heirs of Nolan or by their representatives of a proportionate part of the expenses of the survey was
imposed as a previous and indispensable condition to the enjoyment of the benefits conferred by Congress. Until it was performed, the title to the lands abided in the United States, and
they were not subject to taxation by Colorado. Railway Company v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 608; Same v. ATeShane et al., 22
id. 444.
4. The "approved plats" have never been tendered to the
plaintiff by the surveyor-general, and the act declares that they
shall be "evidence of title."
5. The organic law of the Territory, 12 Stat. 172, declares

Oct. 1877.]

COLORADO

Co. V. COMMISSIONERS.

that no tax shall be imposed on the property of the United
States. The tax in question was assessed, not upon the interest or claim of the plaintiff, but upon the lands themselves.
If they were subject to the taxing power of the Territory, they
might have been offered to satisfy the tax; and the purchaser
at a public sale, held in strict pursuance of law, would have
acquired a valid title to them, free from all pre-existing claims
of the United States.
Hr. Allen A. Bradford, contra.
1. Congress acted upon the assumption that the grant to Nolan
was good for eleven square leagues, to be located within the
boundaries of the original claim. The act of 1870 is a distinct
recognition of his vested interest in that quantity of lands
under an older and paramount title, although they were not specifically described. When the plaintiff made the authorized
location, and gave the surveyor-general the requisite descriptive
list, the lands were identified as the subject of the grant, and
his title relates back to the date of the grant. United States v.
Percheman,7 Pet. 51; Same v. Arredondo, 6 id. 691; Garciav.
Lee, 12 id. 511.
2. The right and title of Nolan were secured and protected
by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Ifenshaw v. Bissell, 1E
Wall. 255. The grant of Amijo for more than eleven square
leagues being void as to the excess, the United States became
the owner of part of the lands within it, claiming, as Nolan did
under Mexico. By the selection in the mode prescribed by the
act, his representative and the United States were mutually
bound and respectively estopped. That selection was perfectec
before the assessment complained of was made.
3. The fact that some of the selected lands were withdrawn
and others entered by pre-emption and homestead claimants,
cannot affect this case. The tax in question was only assessed
upon the remainder, reserved with the approval of the Commis
sioner of the General Land-Office to the plaintiff, which thence.
forth ceased to be public land. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498.
4. The approved plats, which the surveyor-general is required
to make out, are only evidence of a prior title. Even a patent,
when issued upon the claim of a previously existing title, is
only documentary evidence of the existence of that title, or

COLORADO CO. V. C MMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

of such equities respecting the claim as justify its confirmation.
Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 529. A confirmatory act of
Congresis makes a good title without a patent, Grignom'sLessee
v. Astr ', 2 How. 319; but, were it otherwise, the laws of Col,
orado subject to taxation lands entered at private sale or otherwise, "whether a patent has been issued or not."
5. The surveyor-general has not transmitted a statement of
the expenses of the survey nor "approved plats." His laches
cannot work a forfeiture of the plaintiff's title, nor arrest the
operation of the revenue laws of the Territory. According to
the argument on the other side, if payment of those expenses
be never exacted, the lands would be perpetually exempt from
taxation, although the plaintiff should remain in possession and
exercise acts of ownership over them.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Colorado, to bring up a judgment holding a large body of
real estate owned by plaintiffs liable to taxation under the laws
of that Territory.
The ground on which the exemption from taxation is asserted
is that the United States retains such an interest in the land that
it cannot be taxed under the authority of that Territory; and
we are of opinion that the claim is well founded.
In the year 1848, Governor Armijo, of New Mexico, made a
grant of land to Gervacio Nolan, bounded by monuments and
natural objects, containing about five hundred thousand acres.
Upon a report made to Congress after the United States
acquired the country in which this land was situated, that body
was of opinion that the grant was good only to the extent of
Governor Armijo's power under the laws of Mexico, namely,
eleven square leagues; and it passed the act of July 1,1870, 16
Stat. 646, confirming the grant to that extent.
But as there was no particular designation of these eleven
leagues by which to determine their precise location, and as
many persons had settled on lands within the boundary of the
original grant, Congress declared in that act that the eleven
leagues should be adjusted in a compact form, as near as possible within said boundary, and according to the lines lof the

Oct. 1877.]

COLORADO CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

public surveys. That the claims of all actual settlers falling
within the eleven leagues so selected should be allowed, and
that for the deficiency thus made in the eleven leagues the
grantees might select other lands within the bounds of the
original grant.
It was made the duty of the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office to have all the necessary surveys to carry these
provisions into effect made at the expense of the government in
the first instance; "but," it is added, " before the confirmation
provided for by this act shall become legally effective, the heirs
of said Gervacio Nolan, or their legal representatives, shall pay
the cost of such surveys as inure to their benefit respectively."
And, by the next section, it is provided that, when all this
is done, the surveyor-general shall furnish approved plats to the
claimants, which shall be their evidence of title. The plats
had not been made nor the expenses paid when this tax was
assessed.
We are of opinion that the clause above quoted suspends the
vesting of title in the claimants, or of any perfect equitable
right to the title, until the expenses of the surveys are paid;
and that this was done intentionally, to secure that payment.
If not paid after a reasonable time subsequent to the perfecting
of the surveys and plats, there remains in Congress the power
to enforce that payment by a sale of the lands, a resumption
of the grant, or any other appropriate mode.
A sale of the land under territorial authority, held by this
court to be a sale on a valid tax, might very seriously embarrass the assertion of the rights of the government in the premises. If the tax had been levied on the equitable claim of
these holders under Nolan, whatever that is, the case might be
different. But this case shows that it is the land which is
taxed, and the sale would convey the title, or nothing.
We are of opinion that Railway Company v. Prescott, 16
Wall. 603, and Railway Company v. MfcSh ane et al., 22 id. 444,
govern this case, and that the learned judge who delivered the
opinion in the Supreme Court of the Territory, in holding otherwise, overlooked the express provision in the act of Congress,
supra, that the confirmation was not to be effective until these
expenses should be paid.

NImIcK V. COLEMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

We agree with what he has said, that the title when perfected relates back to and is founded on the grant by Mexico ;
but since it was imperfect, and no particular land passed under
the grant until selections were made under that act, Congress
had a right to annex to the confirmation the condition above
recited.
Judgment reversed, with directions to the Supreme Court of
the State of Colorado, to whose jurisdiction the case is nowr
remitted, to affirm the judgment of the District Court for
the county of Pueblo.

N~noi

v. COLEmAN.

An appeal does not lie to this court from the decree of a circuit court dismissing,
in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt law, an appeal
from a district court, and affirming the order appealed from.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Zug & Co., a partnership firm composed of Christopher Zug
and Charles H. Zug, were adjudicated bankrupts by the District Court of the United States for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, March 13, 1876. The creditors determined that
it was for the interest of the general body of the creditors that
the estate should be settled and distributed by trustees under
the inspection and direction of a committee, as provided by
sect. 43 of the Bankrupt Act. Rev. Stat., sect. 5103. The

District Court confirmed this action of the creditors; and accordingly the estate was conveyed to trustees, to be dealt with in
the manner contemplated by that section. The trustees, having converted both the partnership property and that of the
individual partners into money, filed their accounts with the
committee for settlement, and an order for distribution. The
committee approved the accounts, and declared what seemed to
them to be a proper dividend of the assets among the partnership and individual creditors.
The court granted the bankrupts their discharge Oct. 14,

1876.

