Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF CASS V. SHORES.

The effect of the filing of the certificate for the construction
of the branch after the call for the election, but before the
vote was taken, has been sufficiently considered in the case
Judgment affirmed.
above cited.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

COUNTY OF CASS V. SHORES..
The order of the county court of Cass County, Mo., entered upon its recoras
Oct. 20, 1871 (infra,p. 377), authorized the execution of the bonds sued on,
and they are, in the hands of an innocent holder for value, binding upon the
county.

ERROR to the Circuit Court
Western District of Missouri.
This was an action brought
of Cass to recover the amount
A copy of one of the bonds and
is as follows:"No. 38.]

of the United States for the
by Shores against the county
of certain bonds and coupons.
of a coupon thereunto attached

Tim STATE OF MissouRi.

"Cass County FundingBond.

[$500.

Ten per cent, semiannually.

"Issued by the order of the county court, under and by virtue of
the power and authority conferred by an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An Act to enable counties,
cities, and incorporated towns to fund their respective debts,'
passed and approved March 24, 1868.
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Cass, in
the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted to, and hereby
promises to pay, the bearer hereof, for value received, at the banking-house of Northrup & Chick, in the city and State of New York,
$500, three years after the date hereof, with interest thereon from
date at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable semiannually
on the second days of April and October of each year, on the presentation and delivery at said banking-house of the coupons hereto
attached.
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Cass has executed this

COUNTY OF CASS V. SHORES.

[Sup. Cb.

bond by the presiding justice of the county court of said county,
under the order of said 6ourt, signing his name hereto, and by the
clerk of said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same, and
affixing hereto the seal of said court. Done at the court-house in
the city of Harrisoaville, in said county, on the first day of October,
1871.
"JEHIEL C. STEVENSON,
[sEAL.]
"Presiding Justice of the County Court of Cass County, Mo.

"C. H. DORE,
" Clerk of the County Court of Cass County, Mo.
"By S. J. JONES, -D. C."
HARuISONvnLE, CASS CO., MO.,
"Oct. 1, 1871.
acknowledges itself to
of
Missouri,
State
Cass,
of
County
"The
owe, and promises to pay to the bearer, $25 on the second day of
October, 1874, at the banking-house of Northrup & Chick, in the
city and State of New York, being the interest on funding bond
C. H. DoRnE, Clerk,
No. 88.
"By S. J. JoNEs, -D. C."
" $2.5.]

The act of the General Assembly mentioned in the bond is
in these words : "SE TION 1. That the various counties of this State be, and they
are hereby, authorized to fund any and all debts they may owe,
and for that purpose may issue bonds, bearing interest at not more
than ten per cent per annum, payable semiannually, with interest
coupons attached; and all counties, cities, or towns in this State
which have or shall hereafter subscribe for the capital stock of any
railroad company, may, in payments of such subscriptions, issue
bonds bearing interest at not more than ten per cent per annum,
payable semiannually, with interest coupons attached. The bonds
authorized by this act shall be payable not more than twenty years
from date thereof."

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Pursuant to an act of the General Assembly, approved
March 23, 1868, which will be found supra, p. 361, the county
court of said county issued bonds, with interest coupons attached, in the name of the county, on behalf of the township
of Camp Branch, to aid in the construction of a railroad
through said township. Certain of said coupons remaining
anpaid Oct. 20, 1871, said court, having, under the laws of

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF CASS V. SHORES.

the State, the management of the business and property of the
county, entered at that date upon its records the following
order : -

"Ordered by the court, that whereas coupons for interest upon
certain bonds of Cass County, issued fbr the benefit of the townships of Camp Branch and Grand River, to aid in the construction
of the St. Louis, Holden, and Santa F6 Railroad, have matured and
remain unpaid; and whereas the court has been prevented from
making any provisions therefor until since the last annual levy of
taxes; and whereas the credit of the county has suffered, and is
likely to suffer, on account thereof; and whereas, in the opinion
of the court, good faith and honor require that counties, as well as
individuals, should meet their obligations in good faith: Therefore,
for the purpose of paying said coupons, keeping the faith of the
county, protecting and preserving her credit, and also that the next
levy of taxes upon said townships may not prove burdensome, it
is ordered by the court that, for the benefit of Camp Branch Township, in the county of Cass, there be issued county funding-bonds
of the denomination of $500 each, to the amount of $8,000, with
coupons for the payment of interest semiannually, at the rate of
ten per cent, thereto attached ; said bonds to bear date Oct. 1,
1871 ; said coupons for interest to be payable on the second day
of April and October of each year, at the banking-house of Northrup
& Chick, in the city and State of New York, at which place said
bonds shall be payable three years after the date thereof; said
bonds to be signed by the presiding justice of this court, and
attested by the clerk under ihe seal thereof, and numbered forom
1 to 16 inclusive; said coupons to be signed by the clerk. It is
also ordered that, for the benefit of the township of Grand River,
in said county, there be issued funding bonds of the county of
Cass, of the denomination of $500 each, to the amount of $15,000,
with coupons for the payment of interest semiannually, at the rate
of ten per cent per annum, thereto attached; said bonds to bear
date Oct. 1, 1871; said coupons for interest to be payable on the
second day of April and October of each year, at the bankinghouse of Northrup & Chick, in the city and State of New York,
at which place said bonds shall be payable three years after the
date thereof; said bonds to be signed by the presiding justice of
this court, and attested by the clerk under the seal thereof, and
numbered from 17 to 44 inclusive; said coupons to be signed by
the clerk. It is further ordered, that, inasmuch as C. H. Dore, the

COUNTY OF CASS V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

clerk of this court, is in person absent from the county and State,
said bonds be attested and signed by S. J. Jones, his duly appointed
and authorized deputy. It is further ordered, that said bonds,
when issued, be delivered to William H. Allen, who is hereby appointed financial agent of the county, for the purpose of disposing
of a sufficient number of said bonds, and paying the coupons of
interest which have matured on the bonds of Cass County, issued
for the benefit of said townships to aid in the construction of the
St. Louis, Holden, and Santa F6 Railroad; and that said agent
hold the balance of said bonds subject to the order of this court."
The bonds with the interest coupons attached for the recovery of which the suit was brought were, it was claimed, issued
by virtue of that order.
The county set up by way of defence that the debt so
funded was a township debt, for the payment of which the
court could not bind the county; and, furthermore, that the
persons who executed the bonds and coupons were special
agents of the county, with limited power, derived solely from
an order which did not confer upon them the requisite authority. The plaintiff replied that the county did execute
them, and cause them to be sold in open market, where he
purchased them for value, in good faith and without knowledge of any fact or circumstances which would impair their
validity.
The court below, to which the trial of the issue was by a
stipulation of the parties submitted, found that the foregoing
order was made by the county court, and that by virtue thereof
the bonds and coupons in suit were executed, and that Allen,
the agent appointed for the purpose, sold them to Shores, who
paid full value for them, in good faith and with no knowledge
of any circumstance connected with their issue other than what
appears upon the face of them, and what the law would, upon
the foregoing facts, impute to him; and that the moneys arising
from the sale were applied to the payment of said overdue and
unpaid coupons.
The court further found that said bonds and coupons were,
in the hands of Shores, the valid obligations of said county, and
that he was, as an innocent holder of them for value, entitled
to recover against it the amount of them and interest thereon.

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF CASS v. SHORES.

W

Judgment was rendered accordingly. The county sued out this
writ of error.
The case was argued for the plaintiff in error by Mr. Willard
P. Hall and Mr. John . Gage, and for the defendant in error
by 14r. John D. Stevenson.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WA-E delivered the opinion of the
court.
It was conceded upon the argument, that, under the decisions
of this court, the county was estopped from denying its liability upon the bonds in question, being, as they are, in the
hands of an innocent holder, if the presiding justice of the
county court and the clerk were, by the terms of the order of
Oct. 20, 1871, authorized to execute bonds which would bind
the county for their payment. The question of the power of
the county court under the law to bind the county for the
payment of a debt of a township, or to issue bonds on behalf
of a township to fund township debts, is not involved. The
only inquiry is as to the authority conferred upon the presiding
justice and the clerk by the terms of the order. On the one
hand, it is contended that they were only empowered to issue
the bonds of the county in behalf of the township, and thus
bind the township alone for payment under the township aid
act; and, on the other, that they were authorized to charge the
county with the indebtedness to be incurred.
The latter, we think, is the true construction of the order.
It recited that coupons for interest upon the bonds of the
county issued for the benefit of the township had matured and
remained unpaid; that the court had been prevented from
making provision therefor until after the last annual levy of
taxes; that the credit of the county had suffered, and was
likely to suffer, on account thereof; and that honor required
counties as well as individuals to meet their obligations in good
faith. It then directed that, for the benefit of the township,
county funding-bonds be issued "for the purpose of paying
said coupons, keeping the faith of the county, protecting and
preserving her credit, and also that the next levy of taxes
upon said township may not prove burdensome." For the
purposes of construction, language is to be given, if possible.

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

[Sup. Ci.

its ordinary and natural meaning. Applying this elementary
rule in the present case, there seems hardly room for doubt as
to what was intended. "County funding-bonds" were to be
issued to protect the faith and preserve the credit of the
county. The law under which the action was taken was one
authorizing counties "to fund any and all debts they may
owe." The county court may have been mistaken in supposing that the interest in arrears was a county debt; but, however
that may be, they clearly assumed that it was, and acted
accordingly.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE

COMIPANY v. HIGGINBOTHAM.

1. A policy of life insurance, dated July 16, 1869, stipulated for the payment
of the annual premium on or before twelve o'clock on the sixteenth day of
July in every year; and provided that, in case it should not be paid on or
before the day mentioned, at the home office of the company, or to agents
when they produced receipts signed by the president or the treasurer, then,
and in every such case, the company should not be liable to the payment of
the sum insured, or any part thereof, and that the policy should cease and
determine. The premium due July 16, 1870, was not paid when due. On
the 1st of October following, the insured made application for the reinstatement of the policy to the company, paid the premium, received the
agent's receipt tlerefor, and gave the latter his certificate of health and his
certificate of examination, signed by the physician of the company, which
were forwarded to it at its home office. The renewal receipt, bearing date
July 16, 1870, was, Oct. 12, sent by the company to the agent, who delivered it on the 14th to the insured, without inquiry or information as to his
health. Held, that the representations of the insured as to the condition
of his health on the 1st of October, when he applied for the reinstatement of
his policy, and paid the premium, were not continuous until the 14th of that
month; and that the contract was consummated on the day when the pre
mium was paid.
2 The ruling in Insurance Company v. Newton, 22 Wall. 82, touching the effect,
as admissions for or against an insurance company, of facts set forth in the
preliminary proofs of death, reaffirmed.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts in the case are fully set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Frederick T. Frelinghuysenand Xr. J H~ubley Ashton for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. C. Riddle and Mr. FrancisMiller, contra.

