Oct. 18717.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

be prima faeie evidence of the facts therein stated.

14 Stat.

536.
Suffice it to say, that the records of the bankruptcy proceedings admitted in evidence by the court below were authenticated in exact conformity with the directions of the Bankrupt
Act, and were, in the judgment of the court, properly admitted
in evidence; which is all that need be said in response to the
fifth exception.
Exceptions were also taken to the rulings of the court in
refusing to instruct the jury as requested by the defendant, and
to the instruction given to the jury; but it is not necessary to
give those exceptions a separate examination, for the reasons
that the material questions involved are substantially the same
as those presented in the exceptions to the rulings of the court,
already sufficiently considered. Even suppose the assignment
of errors presents all the questions involved in the exceptions,
still it is clear that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE

Comrp=i'Y v. DAVIS.

1. New York Life Insurance Company v. Statham et at., 93 U. S. 24, reaffirmed.
2. Where, as in this case, the legal effect of a policy of insurance is that the premiums shall be paid to the company at its domicile, the indorsement on the
margin of the instrument, that "all receipts for premiums paid at agencies
are to be signed by the president or actuary" of the company, is not an
agreement on its part to vary the condition of the contract, and to make
any particular agency the legal place of payment, but is merely a notice to
the assured that he must not pay to an agent, or at an agency, without
getting a receipt signed by the president or actuary.
3. A resident of Virginia, who had been before the war a local agent of a Northern insurance company, refused to receive the renewal premium, due Dec.
28, 1861, tendered him upon a policy of insurance upon the life of a resident of that State. His refusal was based upon the ground that he had
received no renewal receipts from the company, without which he could
not receive the premium, and that the money, if received, would be liable to confiscation by the Confederate government. The evidence further
failed to show that the company had consented to his continuing to act as
such agent during the war, or that he did so continue. Held, that, waiving
the consideration of any question in regard to the validity of an insurance
upon the life of an alien enemy, such tender of payment did not bind the
company.
4. The effect of a state of war upon the question of agency discussed.

INSURANCE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. 0 .

EPROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
This was an action on a policy of life insurance issued by
the New York Life Insurance Company, a New York corporation, before the war, upon the life of Sloman Davis, a citizen
and resident of the State of Virginia. The policy contained
the usual condition, to be void if the renewal premiums were
not promptly paid. They were regularly paid until the beginning of the war. The last payment was made Dec. 28, 1860.
The company, previous to the war, had an agent, A. B. Garland, residing in Petersburg, Va., where the assured also resided;
and premiums on this policy were paid to him in the usual way,
he giving receipts therefor, signed by the president and actuary,
as provided on the margin of the policy, which were usually
sent to the agent about thirty days in advance of the maturity
of the premium. About a year after the war broke out, the
agent entered the Confederate service as a major, and remained
in that service until the close of the war.
Offer of payment of the premium next due was made to the
agent in December, 1861, which he declined, alleging that he had
received no receipts from the company, and that the money, if he
did receive it, would be confiscated by the Confederate government. A similar offer was made to him after the close of the war,
which he also declined. He testified that he refused to receive
any premiums, had no communication with the company during
the war, and after it terminated did not resume his agency.
Sloman DavIs died in September, 1867.
The plaintiff below was assignee of the policy, and claimed
to recover the amount thereof, $10,000, upon the ground that
he was guilty of no laches, and that at the close of the wax the
policy revived.
It is unnecessary to state, in detail, the proceedings at the
trial. The plaintiff contended, and the judge instructed the
jury, in substance, that they might infer from the evidence
that the place of payment intended by the parties was at the
residence of the plaintiff, and that, if the company did not
furnish receipts to its agent, so that the premiums could be
paid according to the terms of the policy, it was not the fault
of the plaintiff; and, if he was ready and offered to pay his

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. DAVIS.

premium to the agent, there could be no forfeiture of the policy,
if within reasonable time after the war he endeavored to pay
his premiums, and the company refused to receive them. On
the other hand, the defendant contended that the war put an
end to the agency of Garland, and the offer to pay the premium
to him was of no validity, and the failure to pay rendered the
policy void. This view was rejected by the court, and a verdict
was rendered for the amount of the policy, less the amount of
certain premium notes which had been given by the assured.
Judgment was rendered upon the verdict, and the company
then brought the case here.
M1r. fatt. H. Carpenterfor the plaintiff in error.
This case falls exactly within the principles declared in Nfew
York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al., 93 U. S. 24, and the
judgment below must be reversed. The outbreak of the war
dissolved all executory contracts between citizens of one belligerent and those of the other, and put an end to all intercourse
or dealings. 3ftatthews v. McStea, 91 U. S. 7. The policy was,
therefore, absolutely annulled, and no subsequent agreement
between the assured and the company during the war could
revive it. It follows that every agency of the company in
any State declared to be in rebellion was terminated. The
company could not authorize its agent to do what it was ex
pressly forbidden to do by the President's proclamation of Aug.
16, 1861, issued in pursuance of the act of Congress of July
13 of that year.
But if the law were otherwise, there was no evidence :from
which the jury could find that the party to whom the renewal
premium was tendered in December, 1861, was authorized by
the company to act in its behalf after the commencement of
the war. He refused the money, upon the ground that he had
no authority to accept it.
1r. Samuel B. Paul, contra.
Garland was duly appointed agent of the company, and
acted as such. This authority was not revoked by the company after hostilities commeneed. The presumption is, that
the same relations continued between him and the comp~any
which had previously existed, and a payment or a tender of
payment to him was as valid as if it had been made to the com-

INSURANCE CO. V. JDAVIS.

pany. His agency was not revoked by the war.
Storer, 22 Wall. 198.

[Sup. Ct.
Pretz v.

MR. JUSTI=E BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is obvious that this case is nearly on all-fours with that of
New York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al., 93 U. S.
24, decided by this court at the last term. As we still adhere to the views there expressed, we do not deem it necessary to reiterate them. But the questions which received
special discussion on that occasion were, whether a failure to
pay the stipulated premiums involved a forfeiture of the policy,
although such failure was caused by the existence of the war;
and what were the mutual rights of the parties consequent upon
forfeiture under such circumstances. The point which is now
most strenuously relied on, namely, the supposed power of the
agent of a Northern company to receive premiums in a Southern
State in insurrection after the war broke out, and the sup.
posed right of a policy-holder to tender them to such agent,
although involved in the case, was not specially adverted to
in the opinion of the court. We propose to add some observations on this branch of the subject.
First, however, a few words with regard to the position that
there was competent evidence for the jury to infer that the
place of payment intended by the parties was the place of residence of the assured. This, we think, is entirely untenable.
The legal effect of the policy itself was, that payment should
be made to the company at its domicile. The indorsement on
the margin, which is much relied on by the plaintiff's counsel,
has no such effect as he attributes to it. It is in these words:
"All receipts for premiums paid at agencies are to be signed
by the president or actuary." This is simply a notice to the
assured, that, if he shall pay his annual premium to an agent,
or at an agency, he must not do so without getting a receipt
signed by the president or actuary of the company. How this
caution can possibly be construed into an agreement on the
part of the company to make any particular agency the legal
place of payment of premium it is difficult to see. The circumstances show nothing but the common case of the establishment of an agency for the mutual convenience of the parties,

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

and do not present the slightest ground for varying the legal
effect of their written contract. We think, therefore, that the
charge was erroneous on this point. Of course, we do not
mean to be understood as holding, that, as long as an agency is
continued, a tender to the agent would not be valid and binding on the company.
But we deem it proper to consider more particularly the
question of agency, and the alleged right of tendering premiums
to an agent, during the war.
That war suspends all commercial intercourse between the
citizens of two belligerent countries or States, except so far as
may be allowed by the sovereign authority, has been so often
asserted and explained in this court within the last fifteen years,
that any further discussion of that proposition would be out of
place. As a consequence of this fundamental proposition, it
must follow that no active business can be maintained, either
personally or by correspondence, or through an agent, by the
citizens of one belligerent with the citizens of the other. The
only exception to the rule recognized in the books, if we lay
out of view contracts for ransom and other matters of absolute
necessity, is that of allowing the payment of debts to an agent
of an alien enemy, where such agent resides in the same State
with the debtor. But this indulgence is subject to restrictions.
In the first place, it must not be done with the view of transmitting the funds to the principal during the continuance of
the war; though, if so transmitted without the debtor's connivance, he will not be responsible for it. Washington, J., in Conn
v. Penn, Pet. C. Ct. 496; Buchanan v. Curry, 19 Johns. (N. Y.)
141, In the next place, in order to the subsistence of the
agency during the war, it must have the assent of the parties
thereto, - the principal and the agent. As war suspends all
intercourse between them, preventing any instructions, supervision, or knowledge of what takes place, on the one part, and
any report or application for advice on the other, this relation
necessarily ceases on the breaking out of hostilities, even for
the limited purpose before mentioned, unless continued by the
mutual assent of the parties. It is not compulsory; nor can it
be made so, on either side, to subserve the ends of third parties. If the agent continues to act as such, and his so acting is

INSURANCE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. Or.

subsequently ratified by the principal, or if the principal's assent
is evinced by any other circumstances, then third parties may
safely pay money, for the use of the principal, into the agent's
hands; but not otherwise. It is not enough that there was an
agency prior to the war. It would be contrary to reason that
a man, without his consent, should continue to be bound by
the acts of one whose relations to him have undergone such a
fundamental alteration as that produced by a war between the
tvo countries to which they respectively belong; with whom
he can have no correspondence, to whom he can communicate
no instructions, and over whom he can exercise no control. It
would be equally unreasonable that the agent should be compelled to continue in the service of one whom the law of
nations declares to be his public enemy. If the agent has
property of the principal in his possession or control, good faith
and fidelity to his trust will require him to keep it safely during
the war, and to restore it faithfully at its close. This is all.
The injustice of holding a principal bound by what an agent,
acting without his assent, may do in such cases, is forcibly
illustrated by Mr. Justice Davis, in delivering the opinion of
this court in Fretz v. Stover, 22 Wall. 198. In that case, the
agent had collected in Confederate funds the amount due on a
bond. Having asserted that the agent had no authority to do
this, the learned Justice adds: "If it were otherwise, then, as
long as the war lasted, every Northern creditor of Southern men
was at the mercy of the agent he had employed before the war
commenced. And his condition was a hard one. Directed by
his government to hold no intercourse with his agent, and
therefore unable to change instructions which were not applicable to a state of war, yet he was bound by the acts of his
agent in the collection of his debts, the same as if peace prevailed. It would be a reproach to the law, if creditors, without
fault of their own, could be subjected to such ruinous consequences." These observations have a strong bearing upon the
point now under consideration.
What particular circumstances will be sufficient to show the
consent of one person that another shall act as his agent to
receive payment of debts in an enemy's country during war,
may sometimes be difficult to determine. Emerigon says, that

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co.

v. DAVIS.

if a foreigner is forced to depart from one country in consequence of a declaration of war with his own, he may leave a
power of attorney to a friend to collect his debts, and even to
sue for them. Trait' des Assurances, vol. i. 567. But though
a power of attorney to collect debts, given under such circumstances, might be valid, it is generally conceded that a power
of attorney cannot be given, during the existence of war, by a
citizen of one of the belligerent countries resident therein, to
a citizen or resident of the other; for that would be holding
intercourse with the enemy, which is forbidden. Perhaps it
may be assumed that an agent ante ellun, who continues to
act as such during the war, in the receipt of money or property
on behalf of his principal, where it is the manifest interest of
the latter that he should do so, as in the collection of rents and
other debts, the assent of the principal will be presumed, unless
the contrary be shown; but that, where it is against his interest, or would impose upon him some new obligation or burden,
his assent will not be presumed, but must be proved, either by
his subsequent ratification, or in some other manner.
In some way, however it must appear, that the alleged
agent assumed to act as such, and that the alleged principal
consented to his so acting. It is believed that no well-considered case can be found anterior to these life-insurance cases
which have arisen out of the late civil war, in which the existence or continuance of an agency, under the circumstances
above referred to, have been established contrary to the assent
of the alleged parties to that relation. Conn v. Penn, supra,
is the leading authority on this subject in this country. The
question in that case was whether the claimants of land in
Pennsylvania, under contracts of purchase from the proprietaries (the Penns) before the revolutionary war, were entitled to an abatement of interest during the war; and Justice
Washington held that this depended on the question whether,
during the war, the proprietaries, being alien enemies, "had in
the United States a known agent, or agents, authorized to receive the purchase-money and quit-rents due to them from the
complainants," the vendees. To enable the parties to adduce
proof on this point, the court allowed further evidence to be
taken. The same thing was held, at the same term, in the

lnSURANCE Co. v. DAvis.

[Sup. Ct.

case of Dennison et al. v. Imbrie, 8 Wash. 896, where Justice
Washington says: "We think that if the alien enemy has an
agent in the United States, or if the plaintiff himself was in
the United States, and either of these facts known to the debtor,
interest ought not to abate." It is obvious that, in these cases,
the judge assumed that the relation of agency, if it existed, did
so with the mutual consent of the parties thereto. And the
same observation, it is believed, may be made with regard to
all other cases on the subject, except some that have been very
recently decided.
The same inference may be deduced from the cases decided
in this court when the subject of payment to agents in an
enemy's country has been discussed. Amongst others we may
refer to the following: Ward v. Smith, 7 Wall. 447; Brown v.
ifiatts, 15 id. 177 ; ilfontgomery v. UnitedStates, id. 395 ; Pretz
v. Stover, 22 id. 198.
In some recent cases in certain of the State courts of last
resort, for whose decisions we always entertain the highest
respect, a different view has been taken; but we are unable
to concur therein. In our judgment, the unqualified assumption on which those decisions axe based -namely,
"once an
agent always an agent;" or, in other words, that an agency
continues to exist notwithstanding the occurrence of war between the countries in which the principal and the agent
respectively reside - is not correct, and that the continuance
of the agency is subject to the qualifications which we have
stated above.
Now, in the present case, except at the very commencement
of the troubles, before the President's proclamation of nonintervention had been issued, and when it was yet uncertain
what the differences between the two sections would amount to,
there is not the slightest evidence that the company authorized
Garland to act for it at all; and the latter expressly refused to
do so when requested, both on the ground of having received
no receipts from the company (which were his only authority
for receiving payments), and of the liability of the funds to be
confikeated in his hands. The war suspended his agency for
all active purposes, and it could not be continued even for the
collection of premiums without the defendant's consent; and

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. DAVIS.

this, so far as appears, was never given, either expressly or by
subsequent ratification. Under these circumstances, it cannot
be affirmed that the plaintiff could bind the defendant by a
tender of payment to the supposed agent. However valid a
payment may be, if made to an agent in time of war, where he
consents to act as such, and has the assent of his principal
in so acting, an offer of payment cannot have any force or
effect if neither of these circumstances exist.
Waiving, therefore, the consideration of any question that
may be made with regard to the validity of an insurance on
the life of an alien enemy, we think that in the present case
there was not the slightest foundation for the court to charge,
as it did in effect, that a tender of the premium to Garland in
Petersburg was a good tender, and binding on the company.
We do not mean to say, that if the defendant had continued
its authority to the agent to act in the receipt of premiums
during the war, and he had done so, a payment or tender to
him in lawful money of the United States would not have been
valid; nor that a stipulation to continue such authority in case
of war, made before its occurrence, would not have been a valid
stipulation; nor that a policy of life insurance on which no
premiums were to be paid, though suspended during the war,
might not have revived after its close. We place our decision
simply on the ground that the agency of Garland was terminated by the breaking out of the war, and that, although by the
consent of the parties it might have been continued for the
purpose of receiving payments of premiums during the war,
there is no proof that such assent was given, either by the defendant or by Garland; but that, on the contrary, the proof is
positive and uncontradicted, that Garland declined to act as
agent.
Judgment reversed, with directions to award a venire facias de
7Wvo.

MRt. JUSTICE CLiFoRD dissented.
VOL. V.

