EX PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. Ct.

The appellants asserted a claim for this amount also, which
the court refused.
It is very clear that both parties contemplated the probability that the work would not be completed at the precise
period of eight months from the date of the contract. They
also contemplated that changes would be made in the construction of the battery. They made such provision for these matters as they deemed necessary for the protection of each party.
For the reasonable cost and expenses of the changes made in
the construction, payment was to be made; but for any increase
in the cost of the work not changed, no provision was made.
There was a provision for delay, by which the contractor was
to submit to pay $4,500 for every month of that delay. This
provision, the only one on that subject, if strictly enforced,
might have made him a still greater loser; but it seems to
have been waived. But we are very clear that without any
such provision he must be held to have taken the risk of the
prices of the labor and materials which he was bound to furnish,
as every other contractor does who agrees to do a specified job
at a fixed price. It is one of the elements which he takes into
account when he makes-his bargain, and he cannot expect the
other party to guarantee him against unfavorable changes in
Judgment affirmed.
those prices.

Ex

PARTE EASTONT.

1. Claims for wharfage, arising out of either an express or an implied contract,
are cognizable in admiralty.
2. Where the wharfage has not been agreed upon by the parties, the wharfinger
is entitled, as upon an implied contract, to a just and reasonable compensation for the use of his wharf.
3. If the vessel or water-craft is a foreign one, or belongs to a port of a State
other than that where the wharf is used, the claim of the wharfinger for
such use is a maritime lien against the vessel, which lie may enforce by a
proceeding in reia, or he may resort to a libel in personam against the owner

of such vessel or water-craft.
C Whether a writ of prohibition should be issued to the District Court, when
proceeding as a court of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, depends upon
the facts stated in the record upon which that court is called to act. Matters deltors that record, which are set forth in the petition for the writ, cannot

be considered here.

Oct. 1877.]

Ex PARTE EASTON.

PETITIOmN for a writ of prohibition to restrain the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York from exercising jurisdiction in a proceeding in rem to
enforce an alleged lien for wharfage against the canal-boat or
barge "John K. Welch."
As the facts in the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court, they are omitted here.
Mr. Edward D. "ecarthy and .4r. J. -E. Gowen for the
petitioners.
The District Court has no jurisdiction over the barge "John
.K. Welch," because, 1, a contract of wharfage is not a maritime
contract. The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443; The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558; The Belfast, 7 id. 624; Insurance Cornpany v.
-Dunham, 11 id. 1; Rex v. Huumphrey, 1 MNeCle. & Yo. 194;
Platt v. Hibbard, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 497; Barry v. Laugmore, 12
Ad. & E. 640; Speares v. Hartley, 3 Esp. 81; Richardson v.
Goss, 3 Bos. & Pal. 119.
2. The maritime law gives no lien for wharfage. The Coal
Barges, 3 Wall. Jr. 53; The General Sinith, 4 Wheat. 438;
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; Cunningham v. Hall, 1 Cliff.
51; The Thomas, 7 Am. Law Rev. 381; The Gem, Browne,
Adm. 37; The Asa B. Swift, I Newb. Adm. 543; The Alex-

ander 3ce.Yeil, 20 Int. Rev. Rec. 175.
3. If the statutes of New York gave a lien against the vessel,
which they do not, it could not be enforced in a court of admiralty by a proceeding in ren. Wick v. The Samuel Strong,
6 McLean, 587; The Laurel, 1 Newb. Adm. 269; 31aguire v.
Card, 21 How. 248; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; Delovio v.
Boit, 2 Gall. 398; People's Ferry Company v. Beers, 20 How.
393; The Circassian, 1 Ben. 209; Graham v. Haskins, Ole.
Adm. 227; The Ship Harriet,id. 229; The Ottawa, 5 Am. Law
T. 147; .ew Jersey Steamniravigation Co. v. illerehant'sBank,
6 How. 344; Allen v. .ewherry, 21 id. 246; Ransom v. Mayo,
3 Blatchf. 71; Cunninghamv. Hall,1 Cliff. 51; Th7e Two Friends,
Bee, Adm. 440; Brig Hannah, id. 421; The Lady Horatio, id.
169; Cox v. Murray, Ab . Adm. 343; Garvey v. Crocket, id.
490; The Amstel, 1 Blatchf. & H. Adm. 215; McDermott v.
The ,S. S. Owens, 1 Wall. Jr. 370; The Grand Turk, 2 Pittsb.
(Pa.) 326; Philips v. Scattergood, Gilp. 3; Nicoll v. Gard-

EX PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. C1.

ner,'13 Wend. (N. Y.) 290; Sacramento v. Aew World, 4 Cal.
44; Story, Bailn., sects. 451, 453; 2 Kent, Com. 635, 642;
aai;sede v. Trent & Hersey Navigation Co., 4 T. R. 581; Steinman v. Wilkins, 7 Serg. & R. 466.
31r. T. A. Wilcox, contra.
AR. JUSTICE

CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Judicial power under the Federal Coiistitution extends to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and it was
doubtless the intention of Congress, by the ninth section of the
Judiciary Act, to confer upon the District Court the exclusive
original cognizance of all admiralty and maritime causes, the
words of the act being in terms exactly coextensive with the
power conferred by the Constitution. In order, therefore, to
determine the limits of the admiralty jurisdiction, it becomes
necessary to ascertain the true interpretation of the constitutional grant.

On that subject three propositions may be as-

sumed as settled by authority, and to those it will be sufficient
to refer on the present occasion, without much discussion of the
principles on which the adjudications rest: 1. That the jurisdiction of the district courts is not limited to the particular
subjects over which the admiralty courts of the parent country exercised jurisdiction when our Constitution was adopted.
2. That the jurisdiction of those courts does not extend to
all cases which would fall within such jurisdiction, according
to the civil law and the practice and usages of continental
Europe. 3. That the nature and extent of the admiralty
jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution must be determined
by the laws of Congress and the decisions of this court, and
by the usages prevailing in the courts of the States at the
time the Federal Constitution was adopted. No other rules
are known which it is reasonable to suppose could have been
in the minds of the framers of the Constitution than those
which were then in force in the respective States, and which
they were accustomed to see in daily and familiar practice in
the State courts.
Authority is conferred upon the libellants, as the proprietors
of the wharf and slip in question, by the law of the State,
to charge and collect wharfage and dockage of vessels lying

Oct. 187 7.]

Ex PARTE EASTON.

at said wharf, and within the slip adjoining the wharf of the
libellants.
Sufficient appears to show that the respondents are the owners
of the barge named in the libel; that on the 10th of October,
1876, she completed a trip from the port of Baltimore for the
port of New York, and that she took wharfage at the wharf or
pier of the libellants, where she remained for eleven days. For
the use of the berth occupied by the barge the libellants charged
$34.20, as wharfage and dockage. Due demand was made; and,
payment being refused, the libellants instituted the. present suit,
which is a libel in rem against the barge to recover the amount
of that charge. Process was served; and the respondents appeared and excepted to the libel, and set up that process of
condemnation should not issue against the barge, for the following reasons: 1. Because no maritime lien arises in the case for
the matters set forth in the libel. 2. Because no lien in such
a case is given for wharfage against boats or vessels by the laws
of the State. 3. Because the law of the State referred to in
the libel as giving a lien for wharfage is unconstitutional and
void, for the following reasons: (1.) Because it imposes a restriction on commerce. (2.) Because it imposes a duty of tonnage
on all vessels of the character and description of that of the
respondents. (3.) Because it discriminates against the boats
or barges of persons who are not citizens of the State where
the proprietors of the wharf reside.
Pending the proceedings in the District Court, the respondents
presented a petition here, asking leave to move this court for a
prohibition to the court below forbidding the District Court to
proceed further in the case.
Pursuant to said petition, this court entered an order permit-.
ting argument upon the merits of the petition, and directing
that due notice be given to the libellants and the clerk of the
District Court. Hearing was had in conformity to that order,
and the case was held under advisement.
Power is certainly vested in the Supreme Court to issue the
writ of prohibition to the District Court, when that court is
proceeding in a case of admiralty and maritime cognizance of
which the District Court has no jurisdiction. 1 Stat. 81;
United States v. Peters,3 Dall. 12.

EX PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Where the District Court is proceeding in a cause not of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, the Supreme Court cannot
issue the writ, nor can the writ be used except to prevent the
doing of something about to be done, nor will it ever be issued
for acts already completed. -Ex parte Christy, 3 How. 292;
United States v. Hoffman, 4 Wall. 158.
Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is conferred by the
Constitution, and Judge Story says it embraces two great classes
of cases, - one dependent upon locality, and the othei upon the
nature of the contract.
Damage claims arising from acts and injuries done within
the ebb and flow of the tide have always been considered as
cognizable in the admiralty; and, since the decision in the case
of The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, it is considered to be
equally well settled that remedies for acts and injuries done on
public navigable waters, not within the ebb and flow of the tide,
may be enforced in the admiralty, as well as for those upon the
high seas and upon the coast of the sea.
Speaking of the second great class of cases cognizable in the
admiralty, Judge Story says, in effect, that it embraces all contracts, claims, and services which are purely maritime and
which respect rights and duties appertaining to commerce and
navigation. 2 Story, Const., sect. 1666.
Public navigable waters, where inter-state or foreign commerce may be carried on, of course include the high seas, which
comprehend, in the commercial sense, all tide-waters to highwater mark.
Maritime jurisdiction of the admiralty courts in cases of
contracts depends chiefly upon the nature of the service or engagement, and is limited to such subjects as are purely maritime,
and have respect to commerce and navigation within the meaning of the Constitution.
Wide differences of opinion have existed as to the extent of
the admirality jurisdiction; but it may now be said, without fear
of contradiction, that it extends to all contracts, claims, and
services essentially maritime, among which are bottomry bonds,
contracts of affreightment and contracts for the conveyance of
passengers, pilotage on the high seas, wharfage, agreements of
consortship, surveys of vessels damaged by the perils of the seas,

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE EASTON.

the claims of material-men and others for the repair and outfit
of ships belonging to foreign nations or to other States, and the
wages of mariners; and also to civil marine torts and injuries,
among which are assaults or other personal injuries, collision,
spoliation, and damage, illegal seizures or other depredations
on property, illegal dispossession or withholding of possession
from the owners of ships, controversies between the part owners
as to the employment of ships, municipal seizures of ships, and
cases of salvage and marine insurance. Conkl. Treatise (5th
ed.), 254.
Wharf accommodation is a necessity of navigation, and such
accommodations are indispensable for ships and vessels and
water-craft of every name and description, whether employed
in carrying freight or passengers, or engaged in the fisheries.
Erections of the kind are constructed to enable ships, vessels,
and all sorts of water-craft to lie in port in safety, and to facilitate their operation in loading and unloading cargo and in receiving and landing passengers.
Piers or wharves are a necessary incident to every well-regulated port, without which commerce and navigation would be
subjected to great inconvenience, and be exposed to vexatious
delay and constant peril.
Conveniences of the kind are wanted both at the port of departure and at the place of destination, and the expenses paid
at both are everywhere regarded as properly chargeable as
expenses of the voyage. Commercial privileges of the kind
cannot be enjoyed where neither wharves nor piers exist; and
it is not reasonable to suppose that such erections will be constructed for general convenience, unless the proprietors are
allowed to make reasonable charges for their use.
Compensation for wharfage may be claimed upon an express
or an implied contract, according to the circumstances. Where
a price is agreed upon for the use of the wharf, the contract
furnishes the measure of compensation; and when the wharf is
used without any such agreement, the contract is implied, and
the proprietor is entitled to recover what is just and reasonable
for the use of his property and the benefit conferred.
Such erections are indispensably necessary for the safety and
convenience of commerce and navigation, and those who take

EX PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. (it.

berth alongside them to secure those objects derive great benefit from their use. All experience supports that proposition,
and shows to a demonstration that the contract of the wharfinger
appertains to the pursuit of commerce and navigation.
Instances may, doubtless, be referred to where wharves are
erected as sites for stores and storehouses; but the great and
usual object of such erections is to advance commerce and navi
gation, by furnishing resting-places for ships, vessels, and all
kinds of water-craft, and to facilitate their operation in loading
and unloading cargo and in receiving and landing passengers.
Nor is the nature of the service or the character of the contract changed by the circumstance that the water-craft which
derived the benefit in the case before the court was without
masts or sails or other motive power of her own. Sail-ships,
and even steamships and vessels, are frequently propelled by
tugs; and yet, if they secure a berth at a wharf, or in a slip at
the place of landing or at the port of destination, and actually
occupy the berth as a resting-place or for the purpose of loading or unloading, no one, it is supposed, will deny that the
ship or vessel is just as much liable to the wharfinger as if she
had been propelled by her own motive power.
Neither canal-boats nor barges ordinarily have sails or steampower, but they usually have tow-lines; and it clearly cannot
make any difference, as to their liability for wharfage, whether
they are propelled by steam or sails of their own, or by tugs, or
horse or mule power, if it appears that the boat or barge actually occupied a berth at the wharf or slip at the commencement
or close of the trip as a resting-place, or for the purpose of
loading or unloading cargo, or receiving or for landing passengers.
Goods to a vast amount are transported by such means of
conveyance, and all experience shows that boats of the kind
require wharf privileges as well as ships and vessels, or any
other water-craft engaged in navigation. The Northern Belle,
9 Wall. 526.
Access to the ship or vessel rightfully occupying a berth at a
wharf, for the purpose of lading and unlading, is the undoubted
right of the owner or charterer of such ship or vessel for which
such right has been secured. Wendell v. Baxter, 12 Gray
(Mass.), 494.

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE EASTON.

Privileges of the kind are essential to the carrier by water,
whether he is engaged in carrying goods or passengers.
Repairs to a limited extent are sometimes made at the wharf;
but contracts of the kind usually have respect to the voyage,
and are made to secure a resting-place for the vessel during the
time she is being loaded or unloaded. Such contracts, beyond
all doubt, are maritime, as they have respect to commerce and
navigation, and are for the benefit of the ship or vessel when
afloat.
Carrying-vessels would be of little or no value unless they
could be loaded; and they are usually loaded from the wharf,
except in a limited class of cases, where lighters are employed,
the vessel being unable to come up to the wharf in consequence
of shallow water.
Acommodations at the port of destination are equally indispensable for the voyage as those at the port of departure.
Consignments of goods and passengers must be landed, else the
carrier is not entitled to freight or fare. Where the contract
is to carry from port to port, an actual delivery of the goods
into the possession of the owner or consignee, or at his warehouse,
is not required in order to discharge the carrier from his liability. He may deliver them on the wharf ; but, to constitute a
valid delivery there, the master should give due and reasonable
notice to the consignee, so as to afford him a fair opportunity to
remove the goods, or to put them under proper care and custody.
Delivery on the wharf, under such circumstances, is valid, if the
different consignments be properly separated, so as to be open to
inspection, and conveniently accessible to their respective owners.
Te -Eddy, 5 Wall. 481.
These remarks are sufficient to show that wharves, piers, or
landing-places are wellnigh as essential to commerce as ships
and vessels, and are abundantly sufficient to demonstrate that
the contract for wharfage is a maritime contract, for which, if
the vessel or water-craft is a foreign one, or belongs to a port of
a State other than that where the wharf is situated, a maritime
lien arises against the ship or vessel in favor of the proprietor
of the wharf.
Standard authorities, as well as reason, principle, and the
necessities of commerce, support the theory that the contract

Ex PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. Ot.

for wharfage is a maritime contract, which, in the case supposed,
gives to the proprietor of the wharf a maritime lien on the ship
or vessel for his security.
From an early period, wharf-owners have been allowed to
exact from ships and vessels using a berth at their wharves a
reasonable compensation for the use of the same; and the ship
or vessel enjoying such a privilege has always been accustomed to pay to the proprietor of the wharf a reasonable compensation for the use of the berth.
The Kate Tremaine,
5 Ben. 60.
Ancient codes and treatises, such as are frequently recognized
as the source from which the rules of the maritime law are
drawn, usually treat such contracts as maritime contracts, for
which the ship or vessel is liable.
The Maggie Hammond,
9 Wall. 435; Delovio v. Boit, 2 Gall. 398.
Charges for wharfage were adjudged to be lien claims in the
District Court of the third circuit more than seventy years
ago; and, in speaking of that case, Judge Story says, that
it seems to him that the decision was fully supported in principle by the doctrines as well of the common law as of the civil
law, and by the analogous cases of materials furnished and
repairs made upon the ship. Gardner v. Ship New Jersey,
1 Pet. Adm. 223; -zparte Lewis, 2 Gall. 483, where it was
expressly adjudged that the contract was necessarily maritime,
giving as the reason for the conclusion that the use of the wharf
is indispensable for the preservation of the vessel. Johnson v.
lMcDonough, Gilpin, 101.
Other eminent admiralty judges have decided in the same
way, and among the number the late Judge Ware, whose opinion in cases involving the question of admiralty jurisdiction
is entitled to the highest respect. The Phcebe, Ware, 265;
2 Conkl. Adm. (2d ed.) 515; Bark Alaska, 3 Ben. 391; Hobart v. -Drogan, 10 Pet. 108; The Mercer, 1 Sprague, 284;
The Ann Ryan, 7 Ben. 20 ; Dunlap, Adm. 75 ; Abbott, Ship.
(5th ed.) 423.
Water-craft of all kinds necessarily lie at a wharf when loading and unloading; and Mr. Benedict says, that the pecuniary
charge for the use of the dock or wharf is called wharfage or
dockage, and that it is the subject of admiralty jurisdiction;

Oct. 1877.]

Ex

PARTE EASTON.

that the master and owner of the ship and the ship herself may
be proceeded against in admiralty to enforce the payment of
wharfage, when the vessel lies alongside the wharf, or at a distance, and only uses the wharf temporarily for boats or cargo.
Benedict, Adm. (2d ed.) sect. 283.
Application for the writ of prohibition is properly made in
such a case, upon the ground that the District Court has trancended its jurisdiction in entertaining the described proceeding; and whether it has or not must depend not upon facts
stated dehors the record, but upon those stated in the record
upon which the District Court is called to act, and by which
alone it can regulate its judgment. Mere matters of defence,
whether going to oust the jurisdiction of the court or to establish the want of merits in the libellants' case, cannot be admitted under such a petition here to displace the right of the
District Court to entertain suits, the rule being that every such
matter should be propounded by suitable pleadings as a defence
for the consideration of the court, and to be supported by competent proofs, provided the case is one within the jurisdiction
of the District Court. Ex parte Christy, 3 How. 292.
Congress has empowered the Supreme Court to issue writs of
prohibition to the district courts "when proceeding as courts of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," by which it is understood
Conkl.
that the power is limited to a proceeding in admiralty.
Treatise (5th ed.), 56. Such a writ is issued to forbid a subordinate court to proceed in a cause there depending, on suggestion that the cognizance thereof belongeth not to the court.
F. N. B. 39; 3 Bi. Com. 112; 2 Pars. Ship. 193; 8 Bae.
Abr. 206.
Viewed in the light of these considerations, it is clear that a
contract for the use of a wharf by the master or owner of a ship
or vessel is a maritime contract, and, as such, that it is cognizable in the admiralty; that such a contract, being one made
exclusively for the benefit of the ship or vessel, a maritime lien
in the case supposed arises in favor of the proprietor of the
wharf against the vessel for payment of reasonable and customary charges in that behalf for the use of the wharf, and
that the same may be enforced by a proceeding in reim against
the vessel, or by a suit in personam against the owner.

RAILROAD

Co. v. ROSE.

[Sup. ot.

Many other questions were discussed at the bar which will
not be decided at the present time, as .they are not properly
involved in the application before the court.
Petition denied.

RAILROAD ComtA-Y v. RosE.
A railroad company paid to the holders of its bonds the entire amount of semiannual interest accruing thereon from Jan. 1 to July 1, 1870. Held, that the
proper internal revenue officer of the United States rightfully assessed against
the company a tax of five per cent upon the amount so paid.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. James Alason, lLr. Samuel Shellabarger,and Air. Jeremiah 111. Wilson for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railroad Company. A demurrer to its petition was
sustained by the court below, and judgment was given for the
defendant. We must, therefore, look to the petition for the
point to be decided. The facts well pleaded are to be taken as
true. The case made by the petition is as follows :The plaintiff was bound to pay the interest upon certain
bonds. The interest accruing from the 1st of January to the
1st of July, 1870, amounting to $185,500, matured upon the latter day, and within ten days from that time were paid to the
bondholders respectively. Neither five per cent nor any other
sum was withheld on account of taxes. On the 14th of July,
1870, Rose, the proper internal revenue officer of the United
States, assessed against the plaintiff the sum of $9,279.50 as a
tax of five per cent upon the amount so paid over to the bondholders. Payment was compelled by the seizure of property.
The amount of the tax paid to the collector is alleged to have
been exacted without warrant of law, and this suit was instituted to recover it back.

