INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

[Sup. Ci.

its ordinary and natural meaning. Applying this elementary
rule in the present case, there seems hardly room for doubt as
to what was intended. "County funding-bonds" were to be
issued to protect the faith and preserve the credit of the
county. The law under which the action was taken was one
authorizing counties "to fund any and all debts they may
owe." The county court may have been mistaken in supposing that the interest in arrears was a county debt; but, however
that may be, they clearly assumed that it was, and acted
accordingly.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE

COMIPANY v. HIGGINBOTHAM.

1. A policy of life insurance, dated July 16, 1869, stipulated for the payment
of the annual premium on or before twelve o'clock on the sixteenth day of
July in every year; and provided that, in case it should not be paid on or
before the day mentioned, at the home office of the company, or to agents
when they produced receipts signed by the president or the treasurer, then,
and in every such case, the company should not be liable to the payment of
the sum insured, or any part thereof, and that the policy should cease and
determine. The premium due July 16, 1870, was not paid when due. On
the 1st of October following, the insured made application for the reinstatement of the policy to the company, paid the premium, received the
agent's receipt tlerefor, and gave the latter his certificate of health and his
certificate of examination, signed by the physician of the company, which
were forwarded to it at its home office. The renewal receipt, bearing date
July 16, 1870, was, Oct. 12, sent by the company to the agent, who delivered it on the 14th to the insured, without inquiry or information as to his
health. Held, that the representations of the insured as to the condition
of his health on the 1st of October, when he applied for the reinstatement of
his policy, and paid the premium, were not continuous until the 14th of that
month; and that the contract was consummated on the day when the pre
mium was paid.
2 The ruling in Insurance Company v. Newton, 22 Wall. 82, touching the effect,
as admissions for or against an insurance company, of facts set forth in the
preliminary proofs of death, reaffirmed.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts in the case are fully set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Frederick T. Frelinghuysenand Xr. J H~ubley Ashton for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. C. Riddle and Mr. FrancisMiller, contra.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

MR. JiUSTICE HuT delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by Mrs. Martha J. Day against the
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, incorporated by the
State of New Jersey, to recover the amount of a policy of insurance issued to her upon the life of her husband, the late Dr.
Richard H. B. Day, of Washington, in which judgment was
rendered against the company for the amount insured, $5,000
and interest. Mrs. Day having died pendente lite, her administrator was substituted here in her stead.
The policy, dated the 16th of July, 1869, was for life, and
stipulated for the payment of the annual premium of $187.50
on or before twelve o'clock on the sixteenth day of July in
every year; and provided that, " in case the said premium shall
not be paid on or before the several days hereinbefore mentioned for the payment thereof, at the office of the company,
in the city of Newark, or to agents, when they produce receipts
signed by the president or the treasurer, then, and in every
such case, the said company shall not be liable to the payment
of the sum insured, or any part thereof, and this policy shall
cease and determine."
The first premium was duly paid; but when the next premium became due, on the 16th of July, 1870, it was not
paid.
In the following October, Dr. Day made application to the
company for the reinstatement of the policy; and the company
consented to reinstate it, upon the conditions and in the manner
following: On the 1st of October, 1870, Dr. Day paid the premium to
the agent of the company at Washington, and received a receipt for the same. At the same time, he gave to the agent his
certificate of health, and the physician of the company signed
his certificate of examination, which were forwarded to the
company at Newark, N. J.
The policy was renewed, and the renewal receipt was sent by
the company to its agent, Oct. 12, 1870. This receipt was
dated July 16, 1870, and was given to Day on the 14th of
October.
On the twenty-second day of January following, Dr. Day
died.

INSURANCE CO. V. HIGGINBOTHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Eleven special pleas are interposed, to which it is not nec(essary particularly to refer, as the questions to be decided
arise upon the rulings of the judge at the trial, made upon
points not connected with the pleadings.
The chief subject of contention arises upon the refusal of the
judge to charge as requested by the defendant in the following
prayers: 1. If the jury find from the evidence that the certificate of
health in evidence was made by Dr. Day, the insured, on or
about the 1st of October, 1870, and by him delivered to the
agent of the defendant, at Washington City, and by such
agent sent to the principal office of the defendant, at Newark,
N. J., and that the receipt in evidence, dated July 16, 1870,
was thereupon forwarded from the main office of the defendant
to its agent at Washington City, and by him delivered to the
insured on or about the fourteenth day of October, 1870, and
that between the time when said certificate was made and the
time of the delivery of said receipt to the insured, Dr. Day had
had any derangement of health, and did not disclose that fact
to the agent of the defendant when the receipt was handed to
him by the agent, or before, they will render a verdict for the
defendant upon the sixth plea.
2. On refusing to instruct the jury as prayed by defendant,
as follows: If the jury find from the evidence that when the
certificate in evidence, dated Oct. 1, 1870, was given to the
agent of the defendant at Washington City, the latter was not
authorized to and did not assume to reinstate the policy in suit,
but accepted the premium and forwarded the certificate to his
principal, and that the receipt in evidence, dated July 16, 1870,
was then in the home office of the defendant, in New Jersey,
and that said receipt was forwarded to the agent of the defendant on or about the twelfth day of October, 1870, and by him
delivered to the insured on or about the fourteenth day of the
same month; and if the jury further find, that, after the date
of said certificate, and before the delivery of said receipt to the
insured, the insured had had any derangement of health, or
that at the time of the delivery of said receipt to him he was
not in sound health, - they would render a verdict for the defendant.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

CO. V. UTGGINBOTHAN.

The state of Dr. Day's health during the summer and autumn
of 1870 was the subject of contradictory testimony. The
defendant gave evidence tending to prove that he was compelled by ill-health to give up his business as a teacher on the
eighteenth day of October, 1870; that for several weeks prior
to that time he was much debilitated, and was conscious of
that fact; that in November he had the consumption, of which
he died in January following; and that he was in feeble and
disordered health from the spring of 1869 until his death.
The plaintiff, on the other hand, gave evidence tending to show
that he was in sound health till the latter part of October, 1870,
and that he did not have the consumption until the month of
November, 1870.
The exceptions we are to consider assume that on the first
day of October, 1870, when he presented his certificate of
health to the agent at Washington, Dr. Day was in a condition
of health that made him a satisfactory subject for the reinstatement or continuance of his policy of insurance.
It is contended that between the time of thus making and
presenting his certificate to the agent and the date (fourteen
days later) on which the agent delivered to him the receipt by
which his insurance policy was continued in force until July 16,
1871, there had been a change in his health which -would have
caused the rejection of his application to continue the policy
had such change been made known to the company, and that
the failure to make known such change was a fraud, which
invalidated the policy thus renewed or continued.
It is not contended that there were any false representations
made on the 14th of October, or any devices or contrivances to
deceive the company. No affirmative action on that occasion
is complained of. The contention is that the representation
made on the 14th of October was a continuing one, from the
time it was made till the delivery of the renewal receipt on the
14th, and that, if not true at the latter date, the contract was
avoided.
In reaching a conclusion on this point, we may notice, 1st,
that no inquiry was made of Day or demand for information
as to his condition between the 1st and the 14th of October.
The company was particular and specific in its inquiries as to

INSURANCE

CO. V. HIGGINBOTHAMr.

[Sup. Ct.

his condition on the 1st of the month, and required prescribed
forms of evidence as to that condition. There it stopped, and
neither by expression nor by implication intimated a desire for
later information.
It is to be observed, secondly, that the issuance made to him
on the 14th of October relates back to the 16th of July in the
same year. The certificate reads: "Policy No. 59,687, on the
life of Richard H. B. Day, is hereby continued in force for
one year from date, July 16, 1870, settlement of the premium
having been made as per margin." The settlement in the
margin showed the payment of $137.50, being the amount of
the premium of insurance for one year on the sum of $5,000,
as stated in the original policy of insurance.
It will be observed, thirdly, that the distance between Washington and Newark is about two hundred miles only, and that
the certificates of Dr. Day's health and the application which
were forwarded by the agent to the company at Newark would,
in the ordinary course of the mails, reach the office at Newark
on the morning or during the day of the 2d; that all the forms
of the company to authorize a renewal were complied with, and
that the risk was such as the company would accept as a desirable one, and that the receipt for the renewal was received in
Washington on or about the 14th of October, and was on that
day delivered to Dr. Day.
The prayer of the insurance company did not include a request that the jury should determine as a matter of fact
whether, upon the evidence submitted, the representation was
or was not a continuous one, whether the contract was consummated on the 14th of October, or by relation on the 1st of
October; but the judge was requested to charge, as a matter of
law, that the representation was a continuing one.
The facts referred to, we think, show that, although actually
completed on the 14th of October, the jury would have been
warranted in finding that the contract was understood and intended by the parties to take effect by relation as of the 1st
of that month. The money was paid to the agent at Washington on that day. The insurance was post-dated so as to include
that day. The full amount of the premium for one year was
paid by the applicant, viz., $137.50. The company cut off the

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

insured from two and a half months of his policy when they
issued it on the 1st of October, and dated it as of July 16,
although taking payment of the premium for a year. We
think that they did not necessarily intend to cut off an additional fourteen days, but may have meant it to be as of the date
when the insured paid his money and presented a risk that
they were willing to take, and of the time that it would have
taken effect if they had responded without a delay of two
weeks. Had it been otherwise, we cannot conceive how the
sagacious business men who control this company would have
assented to the delivery of the policy without inquiry as to the
intermediate time. More than three months elapsed before
Day's death, monthly returns being made by the agent; and.
the company must have known and assented to the delivery of
the renewal receipt not only, but to the fact that there had
been no inquiry or information as to Day's health after Oct. 1.
The jury might account for it on the theory that the whole
contract was intended to be and was as of Oct. 1, and that
it spoke from that date.
There is every indication that Day thus relied upon that
contract, nor is there any reason to believe that he intended to
deceive or to conceal. The company made inquiries to its own
satisfaction, so far, in such direction, upon such points, and
within such periods, as it thought proper. It was not for him
to advise the company of what it should do, or to volunteer
information which it did not seek. He paid his money, delivered his certificate, received the renewal when the company
chose to give it, found upon examination that it covered the
whole period from the July preceding. He lived in the same
town with the agent, and received no suggestion from him that
any thing further was expected, and was warranted in assuming that his contract was intended to take effect from an earlier
period than its actual delivery. He probably died in the
honest belief that he had thus provided for his widow. It
would be far from good faith to his representatives should it
now be held otherwise.
In Colt v. Pkcenix Fire In8urance Co., 54 N. Y. 595, it is
said: "The defendant must not be made liable, where by the
terms of the contract it is fairly exempted, however harsh the
voL. V.

25

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

result may appear; nor can it be excused where the exemption
is claimed upon a strict and rigid interpretation of words, without regard to the circumstances surrounding the transaction,
and the apparent intent of the parties." See also Tipton v.
Peitner,20 id. 423.
In May on Ins., sect. 190, it is laid down: "Where renewals
are made upon the statements in the original application,
whether the truth of the statements is to be tried by the cir
cumstances existing at the time of the renewal or at the time
when the original application was made, is a question upon
which the authorities do not agree; some taking the view that
a renewal makes a new contract, and others that it merely continues the old one. Special circumstances, however, seem to
control the decision, according as these circumstances indicate
the intent of the parties."
If we assume it to be true, as a general proposition, that the
policy speaks from the date of its issue, and that the obligation
of the applicant to make a full disclosure continues down to
the completion of the contract, and that the occurrence of a
material change before the contract is consummated must be
communicated to the company, we do not advance essentially
in the case before us. The question recurs, When .was the
contract of Dr. Day consummated? If on the 14th of October,
when the renewal receipt was delivered, as the company contends, then the rule mentioned bars the plaintiff's right to
recover. If, as the plaintiff contends, the contract, by the intention and understanding of the parties, relates to the 1st of
October, when the premium was paid by the applicant and the
certificates of health presented and transmitted, or to a point
of time within a few days thereafter, within which the company
ought to have examined and to have accepted a risk in all respects suitable to be accepted within its own rules, then the
general rule quoted is not applicable. The case is governed
by different principles. It is not necessary, therefore, to question the principle assumed in the authority quoted, or to examine the cases cited to sustain it.
We are of the opinion that the exceptions to the charge of
the judge, upon the theory that the representations by Dr. Day
were made on the fourteenth day of October, or that conceal-

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HIGGINBOTHAM.

ment was then practised by him, on the ground that the previous representations, necessarily and as a matter of law, were
continuous, and that the contract was consummated on that
day, cannot be sustained. It was a question proper under all
the circumstances for the consideration of the jury. If they
had found for the plaintiff, we are of the opinion that the verdict would not have been vacated as being without or against
the evidence.
In many English companies a formal acceptance of the pro
posal for insurance is issued. In some companies this acceptance is unconditional, so that the premium be paid within
the month, the letter of acceptance running to the effect that
the proposal has been accepted, and that a receipt is ready
at the office for the premium, upon the payment of which the
assurance will commence; but that, if the same be not paid
within thirty days, a reappearance and fresh certificate will be
required. In other companies the acceptance is qualified by
the condition, not only that the insurance shall not commence
till the payment of the premium, but that no material change
shall have occurred prior thereto. Bunyon, 58, cited Bliss,
sect. 99.
The practice is not uniform, and there is nothing remarkable in allowing a certificate of health to stand good for thirty
days, no reappearance or examination for that interval being
required.
Among the cases relating to this subject, the following may
be referred to as showing the effect of the contract by relation,
and that the consummation of the contract does not necessarily
depend upon the delivery of the policy.
In Lightbody v. The NYorth American Insurance Co., 23 Wend.
(N. Y.) 18, it was held that a policy bearing date on the day
the premium is paid takes effect by relation from that day,
although the policy be not delivered for several days afterwards.
In this case, the buildings were burned on the day after the
premium was paid and before the policy was delivered.
In Perkinsv. FasldngtonInsmrance Co., 4 Cow. (N. Y.) 645,
the rule was applied in a case where the agent was authorized
to make insurances, "provided the office shall recognize the rate
of prmium, and be otherwise satisfied with the risk." It was

INSURANCE

CO. v. HIGGINBOTHAM

S
[Sup.
CL

held that the company was bound to issue a policy where the
insurance was a proper one and the premium was paid or tendered, although before the premium was received at the home
office the property was consumed by fire.
In Chase v. The JHamiltonInsurance Co., 22 Barb. (N. Y.) 527,
the agent forwarded a proposition for insurance, which was
altered by the company, and the alteration communicated to
and accepted by the applicant, and the premium paid to the
agent. Held, that the company was bound to issue its policy,
and was liable for the loss.
In Insurance Company v. Ifebster, 6 Wall. 129, the party
having received his policy, it was held that he was not affected
by afterwards signing a memorandum that the insurance was
to "take effect when approved by E. D. P., general agent."
See also Cooper v. The Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co., 3 Big.
Ins. 656; 7 Nev. 116; Carpenter v. AMutual Safety Insurance
Co., 4 Sandf. (N. Y.) Ch. 408; American HJrse Insurance Co.
v. Patterson, 28 Ind. 17; Bliss, sect. 172; The City of JDavenport v. Peoria Marine and Fire Insurance Co., 17 Iowa, 276;
Lefavour v. Insurance Company, 2 Big. Ins. 158.
At the close of his charge, the judge instructed the jury as
follows: "That the plaintiff is not responsible for or in any
way affected by any of the statements in Dr. White's affidavit,
unless the jury find that before and at the time of filing it with
the agent of the company she had actual knowledge of its contents, and adopted and used them as her own declarations.
That affidavit is her declaration or no, as she knew and was
advised of it and procured and approved it." To which instruction the counsel for the insurance company then and there
excepted.
In establishing lier case at the trial, the plaintiff was bound
to prove that notice of the death of her husband, Dr. Day, had
been given to the company, and that a demand of payment of
the amount claimed had been made. For that purpose only
she offered in evidence the proofs of loss which had been furnished to the company, except the affidavit of Dr. White, forming a part of the same, which she did not offer in evidence.
Those proofs contained the sworn statement of Mrs. Day herself, the sworn statement of Dr. Isaac White, certificates of

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. HIGGINBOTHAM.

the clergyman and undertaker, and proof of identity by J. F.
Patterson.
These affidavits were all on one paper, and the court required
that the proofs of loss should be put in as an entirety; that is,
that all the papers containing the preliminary proofs should be
put in evidence; and the same were thereupon put in evidence
by the plaintiff, including the affidavit of Dr. White. In
Dr. White's affidavit thus introduced occurred the following
questions and answers: "' How long have you known the deceased? '- ' I have known Dr. R. H. B. Day seventeen years.'
-I How long was deceased sick? 'About five months.''Date of your first visit ?'- 'Nov. 28, 1870.'- ' Date of your
last ?'-'
Jan. 22, 1871.'-' Of what disease did he die ?''Pulmonary consumption."' It appeared further that Dr. White
was not a resident of Washington, but left that city immediately after making the affidavit mentioned, on the 28th of
January, 1871.
Mrs. Day testified that Dr. White had not seen her husband
at any time between September, 1869, and the latter part of
November, 1870.
The struggle as to Dr. White's affidavit and the ruling upon
it are quite immaterial. He stated in answer to one of the
questions that Dr. Day had been ill about five months, and, as
he died on the 22d of January, 1871, this would carry his illness back to the 22d of August, 1870, of course, including all
the month of October of that year. The insurance company
apparently sought the benefit of this evidence on the contest
in regard to Day's health.
It is, however, manifest that White's statement was not one
of personal knowledge, but was upon rumor, or made without
sufficient reflection. This is evident from the testimony of
Mrs. Day, which is entirely unimpeached and uncontradicted,
that Dr. White did not see her husband during all of the year
1870 until the latter part of November. Upon this subject
she could not well be in error. It was equally evident, from
the statement of White himself, that his first visit to Day was
on the 28th of November, 1870.
Day's bodily health on the first day of October, 1870, was
satisfactory to the company, and the attempt was to show an

INSURANCE CO. V. HIGGINBOTHAM.

[Sup. ("t.

unfavorable alteration between that date and the 14th of the
same month. Blit White had not seen him during those fourteen days, nor for months before, nor for more than six weeks
afterwards.
*Whether the presentation of the affidavit of White by Mrs.
Day made its contents evidence, whether she knew its contents
or not, whether she did or did not adopt or procure it, was not
of the slightest consequence. The paper contained nothing
that was legal evidence upon the point in issue, and a verdict
founded upon it could not have been sustained. The disposition of the subject by the judge was one that could not possibly
work legal injury to the insurance company. There was, therefore, no error. Starbird v. Barrons, 43 N. Y. 200; Pepin v.
Lachenmeyer, 45 id. 27; The People v. Brandreth, 36 id. 191;
Porterv. Buckman, 38 id. 210; Corning v. Troy Iron and Nail
Pactory,44 id. 577.
The effect of facts set forth in preliminary proof as admissions is discussed in Insurance Company v. Newton, 22 Wall. 32.
Where an agent of the insurance company stated that the proofs
were sufficient to show the death of the insured, but that they
showed that he committed suicide, it was held that the whole
admission must be taken together. Where the party or her agent
stated in the preliminary proofs that the deceased had commit.ted suicide, furnishing the verdict of a coroner's jury to that
effect, and where the narration of the manner of the death of
the deceased was so interwoven with the death of the deceased
that the two things were inseparable, it was held that the
whole was competent to go before the jury.
We see no occasion to question the positions of that case.
Upon the whole case, we are all of the opinion that the judgment must be affirmed ; and it is
So ordered.

