Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES

v. THE "GRACE LOTHROP."

527

State gave its assent to the occupation; and in -May, 1854, the
United States, by treaty, ceded to them certain lands for a permanent home, the treaty taking effect upon its ratification in
August of that year; and afterwards a portion of these lands
was, by another treaty, ceded to the Stockbridge and Munsee
tribes. But when the logs in suit were cut, those tribes had
removed from the land in controversy, and other sections had
been set apart for their occupation.
The act of Congress of Feb. 6, 1871, authorizing a sale of
the townships occupied by the Stockbridge and Munsee tribes,
must, therefore, be held to apply only to those portions which
were outside of sections 16. It will not be supposed that
Congress intended to authorize a sale of land which it had
previously disposed of. The appropriation of the sections to
the State, as already stated, set them apart from the mass
of public property which could be subjected to sale by its
direction.
It follows that the plaintiff acquired no title by his patents
to the land in question, and, of course, no property in the timber cut from it.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. THn

"GErACE LOTHROP."

The agreement, in writing or in print, which, with certain exceptions, the master

of a vessel, bound from a port in the United States to any foreign port, is
required, before proceeding on his voyage, to make with every seaman whom
he carries to sea as one of his crew, need not be signed in the presence of

a shipping commissioner, when such voyage is to a port in the West India
Islands.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This is an information against the brig "Grace Lothrop"
for a violation of the act of June 7, 1872, 17 Stat. (262), as
amended by the act of Jan. 15, 1873, id. 410:
The grounds of the information are, that on the 18th of
December, 1873, at Boston, one Atwood, while master of that
vessel, did knowingly receive and accept, to be entered on

528

UNITED STATES v. THE " GRACE LOTHROP."

[Sup. Ct.

board, five seamen who had been theretofore engaged for a
voyage from Boston to a port in the West Indies, by agreements in writing that had not been signed in the presence of
a shipping commissioner, &c.
The answer of Atwood, the claimant, admits the facts as
alleged, but denies that engagements for voyages to the West
Indies are within the statutes referred to.
The court having dismissed the information, the United
States appealed here.
The Solicitor-aeneral for the appellant.
Mr.Seth J. Thomas, contra.
M. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Persons other than a shipping commissioner are in certain
cases forbidden to perform or attempt to perform the duties
usually required of such an officer, as prescribed by the acts
of Congress.
Atwood, the respondent, as the information charges, was the
master of the brig "Grace Lothrop ;" that he, on the 18th of
December, 1873, as such master, did knowingly receive and
accept to be shipped on board of the brig five seamen engaged
and supplied for the purpose contrary to the act authorizing
the appointment of shipping commissioners to superintend the
shipping and discharge of seamen, and that the seamen were
so engaged and accepted by an agreement in writing not signed
by them in the presence of a shipping commissioner.
Due monition was issued and served by seizing the vessel,
and the master appeared and filed an answer. Among other
things, he admitted that the brig when arrested was bound on
a voyage to a port in the West Indies, that he shipped the
five seamen for that voyage, and that the shipping agreement
was not signed by the seamen in the presence of such a commissioner; but he denies that he- has incurred any penalty by
shipping the seamen named in the libel without the presence
of such an officer. Hearing was had in the Circuit Court
where the libel was filed, and the decree of the Circuit Court
was in favor of the respondent, dismissing the libel, and from
that decree the United States appealed to this court.
Errors assigned are as follows: 1. That the court erred in

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES v. THE " GRACE LOTHROP."

529

holding that the act of Congress providing for the appointment
of such commissioners does not require that the agreement to
be signed by seamen in voyages between the ports of the
United States and the West Indies shall be signed in the
presence of a shipping commissioner. 2. That the court erred
in holding that the information is defective in not negativing
the suggestion that the master of the brig himself acted as
shipping commissioner. 3. That the court erred in dismissing
the information.
Before proceeding to examine the errors assigned, it should
be observed that the appellants contend that the wrongful act
charged, if punishable at all, is punishable under the Revised
Statutes, which, as they insist, went into operation eighteen
days before the alleged wrongful act was perpetrated. Rev.
Stat., sect. 5601.
Masters of every vessel bound from a port in the United
States to any foreign port, other than such as are therein excepted, are required by those statutes, before they proceed on

such a voyage, to make an agreement in writing or in print
with every seaman whom they carry to sea as one of the crew,
in the manner the act prescribes, which shall be as near as
practicable in the form therein directed, to be dated at the
time of the first signature, and to be signed by the master
before any seaman signs the instrument.
Vessels excepted from those requirements are all such as
are engaged in trade between the United States and the British
North American possessions or the West India Islands or the
Republic of Mexico; nor do those requirements apply to masters of vessels where the seamen are by'custom or agreement
entitled to participate in the profits or result of a cruise or
voyage, nor to masters of coastwise or of lake-going vessels
that touch at foreign ports, but they do apply without qualification to vessels of seventy-five tons burden or upward bound
from a port on the Atlantic to a port on the Pacific, or vice
versa; the vessels bound on such voyages being subject in that
regard to the same rules as those bound on a voyage from a
domestic port to a foreign port. Rev. Stat., sect. 4511.
Detailed specification of the stipulations and regulations
which such an agreement shall contain are also set forth in the
VJOL.V.

84

530

UNITED STATES

v. THE " GRACE

LOTHROP."

[Sup. Ot.

same section : and the succeeding section provides to the effect
that every such agreement, except where it is other-wise provided, shall be signed by each seaman in the presence of a
shipping commissioner; that when the crew is first engaged
the agreement shall be signed in duplicate, and that one part
shall be retained by the commissioner, and that the other part
shall contain a special place or form for the description and
signatures of persons engaged subsequently to the departure
of the ship, and that it shall be delivered to the master; and
that every such agreement so made shall be acknowledged, and
certified under the hand and seal of the commissioner, and that
the certificate shall be appended to the agreement in the form
therein prescribed.
Argument to show that vessels engaged in trade between
the United States and the West India Islands are not subject
to the regulations enacted with respect to vessels employed in
foreign commerce not falling within the exceptions contained
in the section, is quite unnecessary, as it is as clear as language
can make it that vessels engaged in trade between the United
States and the British North American possessions and the
West India Islands and the Republic of Mexico are excepted
from the operation of the clause made applicable to vessels
bound from a port of the United States to any foreign port,
by the words " other than;" which clearly and to a demonstration exclude the voyages subsequently described from the
category of those previously mentioned in the preceding part
of the section.
Concede that the Revised Statutes do support that theory,
still it may be suggested that, inasmuch as the case was adjudged in the court below as if it was controlled by the previous acts of Congress, it ought to be determined here in view
of the same statutory provisions. Suppose that it is so, still
it is certain that it will not benefit the libellants, as it is obvious that the antecedent legislation of Congress, when properly
understood, must lead to the same conclusion.
Power to appoint shipping commissioners was conferred by
the act of the 7th of June, 1872; and the act provides that the
general business of such a commissioner shall be as follows:
1. To afford facilities for engaging seamen, by keeping a reg-

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES

v.

THE " GRACE LOTEIROP."

531

ister of their names and characters. 2. To superintend their
engagement and discharge in the manner prescribed. 3. To
provide means for securing the presence of the men so engaged
on board at the proper times. 4. To facilitate the making
apprenticeships to the sea service, and to perform such other
duties relating to merchant seamen and ships as the powers
conferred by the act require. 17 Stat. 262.
Where no such appointment has been made, the whole or
any part of such business may be conducted by the collector
or deputy-collector of such place or port.
Appended to that section is a proviso that nothing in the
act shall be so construed as to prevent the owner or consignee
or master of any vessel, except such as are described in sect.
12 of the act, from performing himself, so far as the ship
is concerned, the duties of shipping commissioner under the
act. Id. 263.
Sect. 12 of the same act provides that the master of every
ship bound from a port in the United States to any foreign port, or of any ship of the burden of seventy-five tons or
upward bound from a port on the Atlantic to a port on the
Pacific, or vice versa, shall, before he proceeds on such voyage,
make an agreement in writing or in print with every seaman
whom he carries to sea as one of the crew, in the manner particularly set forth in the act, which shall be dated at the time
of the first signature thereof, and shall be signed by the master
before any seaman signs the same.
Agreements of the kind, subject to certain exceptions not
necessary to be noticed, must be signed by each seaman in the
presence of a shipping commissioner; and, when the crew is
first engaged, the agreement must be signed in duplicate, one
part being retained by the commissioner, and the other part to
contain a place or form for the description and signature of
persons engaged subsequently to the departure of the ship.
Annexed to sect. 12 is a proviso equivalent to what is enacted in the Revised Statutes, that the section shall not
apply to masters of vessels when the seamen are, by custom or
agreement, entitled to participate in the profits or results of a
cruise or voyage, nor to masters of coastwise vessels or of lakcgoing vessels that touch at foreign ports.

532

UNITED STATES v. THE " GRACE LOTHROP."

[Sup. Ct.

Congress, on the 15th of January, 1873, added another
proviso to sect. 12 of the original act, to the effect that
the section shall not apply to masters of vessels when engaged
in trade between the United States and the British North
American possessions or the West India Islands or the Republic
of Mexico. Id. 410.
Explicit as that provision is, it may well be contended that
it applies only to the twelfth section of the original act; but
Congress, in the month of June, 1874, passed another amendatory act, by which it is provided that none of the provisions
of the original act shall apply to sail'or steam vessels engaged
in the coastwise trade, except the coastwise trade between the
Atlantic and Pacific coasts, or in the lake-going trade touching
at foreign ports or otherwise, or in the trade between the
United States and the British North American possessions, or
in any case where the seamen are by custom or agreement
entitled to participate in the profits or result of a cruise or
voyage. 18 id. 64.
Though the act last referred to is subsequent in date to the
supposed wrongful acts of the respondent, as alleged in the
libel, yet the language of the act is in terms an explicit declaration that Congress never intended that the original act should
apply to vessels engaged in any part of the coasting trade,
except that between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Nor is
it necessary to refer to that act to support the decree below
in this case, as the prior act expressly provides that sect. 12
of the original act shall not apply to masters of vessels when
engaged in trade between the United States and the British
North American possessions or the West India Islands or the
Republic of Mexico, which affords a demonstration that the
decree below, whether tested by the provisions of the Revised
Statutes or by the previous legislation of Congress, is correct.
Masters of vessels bound from the port of a State to a port
in any other than an adjoining State were required by an early
act of Congress, before the vessel proceeded on her voyage, to
make an agreement in writing or print with every seaman 6f
the crew, declaring the voyage and the term of time for which
such seaman was shipped. 1 id. 131. Attempt is now made
to support the theory of the libel, by invoking the provisions

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES V.

THE

" GRACE LOTtROP."

533

of that act, and blending the same with the provisions of the
act creating the shipping commissioners; but the attempt cannot be successful in the case before the court, as the amendment to the last-mentioned act provides that the twelfth section
of the prior act shall not apply to the masters of vessels when
engaged in trade between the United States aid the West
India Islands.
Beyond all doubt, that amendment and the twelfth section
of the original act mast be read together in disposing of the
present case, as the amended act was passed before the supposed wrongful act of the respondent was committed. When
those two provisions are read together, it is an easy matter to
specify the cases in which shipping commissioners must act, or
in which the agreement of the seaman is required to be signed
in the presence of such a commissioner. They are as follows:
1. Where the ship is bound from a port in the United States
to a foreign port, not including the ports of the British provinces or the ports of the West India Islands or the Republic
of Mexico, or lake-going vessels touching at foreign ports.
2. Ships of seventy-five tons burden or upward bound from a
port on the Atlantic to a port on the Pacific, or vice versa.
Provision was made by the second proviso in sect. 12 of
the original act that that section should not apply to masters
of vessels where the seamen are by custom or agreement entitled to participate in the profits or result of a cruise or
voyage, nor to masters of coastwise voyages or masters of lakegoing vessels which, as before explained, touch at foreign ports.
Three other exceptions to the operation of the twelfth section
of the original act were added to the preceding list by the
amendatory act, which provides that the twelfth section of the
act shall not apply to masters of vessels when engaged in trade
between the United States and the British North American
possessions or the West India Islands or the Republic of
Mexico.
Duties are assigned to shipping commissioners which all
other persons are forbidden to perform, under the penalty
therein prescribed; but the same section provides that nothing
in the act shall be so construed as to prevent the owner or consignee or master of any ship, except such as are described in

5zs4

UNITED

STATES v. THE " GRACE LOTHROP."

[Sup. Ct.

sect. 12 of the act, from performing himself, so far as the
ship is concerned, the duties of shipping commissioner under
the act.
Tested by these considerations, it follows that the provision
requiring the agreements of seamen to be signed in the presence of a shipping commissioner refers only to the agreements
described in sect. 12 of the original act; nor does it include
those which are excepted from the operation of sect. 12 by the
second proviso to the same section, nor either of the three
cases excepted out of the operation of the same section by the
amendatory act subsequently adopted.
Penalties are imposed for shipping seamen contrary to the
regulations which the original act prescribes; but it is clear
that the clause imposing the penalty does not refer to seamen who have agreed to make a voyage other than one of
the two classes within the operation of sect. 12, as modified by
the amendatory act subsequently adopted. 17 id. 410.
Where the voyage to be made does not fall within the operation of sect. 12 as amended by the subsequent act, the owner
or consignee or master of the ship may himself perform, so far
as the ship is concerned, the duties of shipping commissioner
which the act prescribes, as the same is expressly authorized
by the proviso to the eighth section of the act.
Shipping articles, called agreements in the original act under
consideration, are to be made in writing or in print with every
seaman shipped for the voyage before the ship proceeds from
the port of shipment; and if the voyage is a foreign one in the
sense already explained, or one from a port of the Atlantic to
a port of the Pacific, or from a port of the Pacific to a port of
the Atlantic, in a vessel of the burden of seventy-five tons or
upward, the agreement must be signed in presence of a shipping commissioner, unless it appears that the shipment was
made in a port or place in which no shipping commissioner
has been appointed, in which event the whole or any part of
the business of such a commissioner may be conducted by the
collector of the customs or his deputy at the port or place of
shipment.
Such agreements with each and every seaman must be made
before the ship or vessel proceeds for the port of destination

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES v. THE " GRACE LOTHROP."

585

in all the other voyages mentioned in the act which are not
excepted out of the operation of the twelfth section. Conclusive support to that proposition is found in the first clause of
the fourteenth section of the -riginal act, which provides that
if any person shall be carried to sea as one of the crew on
board of any ship making a voyage hereinbefore specified,
without entering into an agreement with the master of said
ship in the form and manner and at the place and times hereby
in such cases required, the ship shall be held liable, and shall
incur the penalty therein provided. Where it is not required
that such agreements shall be signed in the presence of a shipping commissioner, or that the business of such a commissioner
shall be conducted by the collector of the customs or his deputy,
the owner or consignee or master of the ship, so far as the
ship is concerned, may himself perform the duties of shipping
commissioner under the act, by virtue of the provisos contained
in the eighth and twelfth sections of the original act.
Ships may be liable to the penalty prescribed by the fourteenth section of the act in case a seaman is carried to sea as
one of the crew on board, though making a voyage excepted
out of the operation of sect. 12, if it appears that the ship proceeded on such voyage before the master made the required
agreement with the seamen in writing or in print, provided
the charge in the information covers such a delinquency; but
the sole charge in the libel in this case is, that the agreement
was not signed by the seamen in the presence of a shipping
commissioner. It contains no allegation that the agreement
was not in due form, nor that it was not signed in presence of
the owner or consignee, or of the master of the ship.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the voyage
was one excepted out of the operation of the twelfth section of
the act, and that it was one where the owner or consignee, or
the master of the ship himself, might lawfully perform tho
duties of shipping commissioner. Nothing being alleged to
the contrary, it must be presumed that the required agreement
was made in due form, and that it was properly signed by the
seamen in the presence of some one of the three persons
authorized by the act to perform that duty, before the ship
proceeded on the described voyage.

UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Examined in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that
the decree dismissing the libel is correct. Different conclusions, we are aware, have been reached by other judges; but it
must suffice to say, that we are not able to concur in the reasons given in support of those decisions.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED

STATES V.

SIITH.

The act of Congress approved June 7, 1872 (17 Stat. 262), does not apply to the
shipping of seamen upon vessels engaged only in and for voyages coastwise
between Atlantic ports of the United States.

CERTiFIcATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts.
This is an information under the act of June 7, 1872, 17 Stat.
262, against the defendant Smith, for that he, not being a
shipping commissioner, did ship and engage one John Riley
as a seaman, to go on board a certain American vessel called
the "Proteus," and make a voyage from Boston, in Massachusetts, to Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania, said Smith not
then and there being the owner, consignee, or master of said
vessel.
The defendant demurred; and the judges were opposed in
opinion on the following question: Whether said act applies to
the shipping of seamen upon vessels engaged only in and for
voyages coastwise between Atlantic ports of the United States,
as was the vessel described in the information.

The Solicitor-Ceneralfor the United States.
No opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

Shipping commissioners are vested with certain powers and
are charged with the performance of certain duties in engaging
seamen for the merchant service; and the act of Congress providing for their appointment forbids other persons, in certain
cases, from performing the duties with which such commissioners are charged by the provisions of that act.

