NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

-[Sup. t

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.
1. Where an ordinance of a city, authorizing a contract with a gas company,
and the issue to it of bonds of the city, provided that the company should
"guarantee the said bonds and assume the payment of the principal thereof
at maturity," -Held, 1. That the guaranty embraced both the principal and
interest of the bonds. 2. That the ordinance contemplated two undertakings by the company, - one, to the bondholder, to answer for the city's liability; and the other, to the city, to provide for the payment of the principal
of the bonds on their maturity.
2. The indorsement on the bonds by the president of the company, guaranteeing
"the payment of the principal and interest" of them, was a compliance with
the ordinance and contract as to the guaranty.
8. It is competent for the legislature to impose upon a city the payment of claims
just in themselves, for which an equivalent has been received, but which,
from some irregularity or omission in the proceedings creating them, cannot
be enforced at law.
4. A law requiring a municipal corporation to pay such a claim is not within the
provision of the Constitution of Louisiana inhibiting the passage of a retroactirp law.

ERR6R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This was an action commenced Feb. 7, 1874, by Freeman
Clark against the Jefferson City Gas-light Company and the
city of Carrollton, La., to recover .$7,200, the amount of overdue interest coupons cut from certain bonds issued by said
city to that company.
On the 11th of January, 1871, the mayor and council of the
city of Carrollton passed an ordinance authorizing the mayor
to enter into a contract with that company to light the city
and supply the citizens with gas-light, and providing that, in
consideration of the execution of the contract by the company
within a specified time, "the city of Carrollton, through the
mayor, shall provide and issue forty-five $1,000 bonds of the
city of Carrollton, payable in thirty years, with interest at
eight per cent, payable semiannually to the order of the said
Gas-light Company: Provided, the said company shall guarantee the said bonds, and assume the payment of the principal
thereof at maturity; And provided further, that if at the
maturity the said company shall fail to pay said bonds, then
the said city shall pay the same, and become the owner of all

Oct. 1877.]

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

the gas-works, main-pipes, posts, &c., then lying 8iA being
within the present limits of the city of Carrollton.
"That the treasurer of the city of Carrollton shall specially
appropriate and set aside in lawful money, every month, such
amount or proportion of the taxes and dues of said city as
shall be necessary to meet the interest on said bonds and such
gas-bills as may accrue against said city; and that the mayor
in said act shall be authorized to make such other agreements,
not inconsistent herewith, as may be necessary to carry out
the purposes of the ordinance, and make the said contract legal
and conclusive on both parties thereto."
A contract embracing the terms and stipulations of the ordinance was entered into between the mayor and the company;
and the latter, having complied therewith, received the bonds,
with coupons for interest attached.
The bonds and coupons were in the following form: "No.

1.]

"A.]

CITY OF CJRROLLTON.

State of Louisiana.

[$1,000.

[No. 1.

"Know all men by these presents, that the city of Carrollton
will pay to the Jefferson City Gas-light Company, or order, the sum
of $1,000, in current money of the United States, in thirty years
from the date thereof, with interest at the rate of eight per cent
per annum, payable semiannually on the first day of January and
first day of July of each year, at the office of the city treasurer, on
the delivery of interest coupon attached to said bond. For the
payment of the principal and accruing interest on this bond the
faith and credit of the city of Carrollton is pledged, as set forth in
the ordinance printed on the reverse hereof, passed and approved
Jan. 11, 1871.
"In testimony whereof, the seal of the city of Carrollton is
hereto affixed, and the signatures of the mayor, controller, and
treasurer appended in writing on the first day of July. 1871.
"T. A. MARTIN, Controller.
[SEAL.]

"FEDERICK KER., Treasurer.
"D. M. BIsBE, 2layor.

(Written across the face:) "The Jefferson City Gas-light Company guarantee the payment of the principal and interest on this
bond to the holder thereof.
"JoHxr LociwooD, President."

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

"$40.]

[Sup. Ct.

CoUoN.

"The city of Carrollton will pay to bearer forty dollars at the
office of the city treasurer, being six months' interest due July 1,
1874, on bond No. 1, for one thousand dollars.
"A.
FREDERICK KERN, Treasurer"
An act of the legislature of Louisiana, passed Feb. 12,
1872, empowered the mayor and city council of the city of
Carrollton to ordain, establish, and cause to be carried into
effect and execution, all such by-laws, ordinances, resolations, rules, and regulations as they might deem expedient
for the good government of said corporation which are not
contrary to the Constitution and laws of the State or the
United States. They were also authorized and empowered
to fund the outstanding debts and obligations of the city
created for wharves, streets, gas, and other improvements of
said city, by issuing its bonds in such sums as they might
deem advisable, running for thirty years, with interest at eight
per cent payable semiannually: Provided, that any ordinance
for the issue of bonds should provide for the payment of their
principal and interest by levying such annual tax as would raise
a sufficient sum to pay the interest of said bonds as the same
might come due, and should create a sufficient sinking fund to
meet the principal at maturity.
April 10, 1872, the following ordinance was adopted by the
mayor and council of the city of Carrollton : " An ordinance to provide for the payment of the bonds and
interest on the same, as authorized by the provisions of the new
charter of the city of Carrollton, bearing date the twelfth day of
February, 1872, providing for the funding of the outstanding debts
and obligations of the said city created for the wharves, streets, gas,
and other improvements of said city.
"SEcTIoN 1. Be it ordained by the mayor and council of the
city of Carrollton, that there shall be assessed and levied a tax on
all real and personal property within the limits of said city, as per
amended charter, bearing date the twelfth day of February, 1872,
and to be collected annually, one-half of one per cent (j per cent),
for the purpose of paying the principal and interest of two hundred
bonds of $1,000 each, or as much thereof as may be required to

(Jet. 1877.]

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

fund the city debt, and to be issued under this ordinance, and running for thirty years, the proceeds of the same to be applied for tho
purpose of funding the city indebtedness.
" SECT. 2. Be it further enacted, that the aforesaid tax of onenalf of one per cent shall be assessed and levied on the assessment
rolls of 1872, and shall not be exigible or collectible before the
year 1878, and shall then be collected in the same manner as other
taxes, and in accordance with the city charter in relation thereto.
"SECT. 8. Be it further enacted, &c., that the treasurer of the
city of Carrollton shall annually set aside, after paying the interest
as provided semiannually on said bonds, a sufficient amount to pay
the principal at maturity: And provided further, that any failure
or neglect upon the part of the treasurer of said city to comply
with the provisions of said ordinance shall be a sufficient cause for
his removal from office.
"SECT. 4. Be it further enacted, that the mayor of the said city,
and chairman of the finance and the chairman of the streets and
landings committees, be, and are hereby, authorized and empowered
to forthwith negotiate a loan, sufficient in amount and as heretofore provided for in this ordinance, to liquidate the indebtedness
of said city; and that the mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to have engraved and printed two hundred bonds of $1,000
each, with coupons attached, and to warrant on the treasurer for
the payment of the printing and engraving of the said bonds, and
to issue the necessary amount of bonds payable in thirty years required to meet said loan thus negotiated.
"SECT. 5. That this ordinance take effect from and after its
passage."
An act of the legislature, approved March 28, 1874, enacts
as follows: "SECTION 1. That all that portion of the parish of Jefferson being
and lying below the centre of Upper Line Street of the city of Carrollton, commencing at Iississippi River, and extending northwardly
along the centre of said street to its terminus, and thence along the
centre of the line of the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad to
Lake Pontchartrain, shall be and constitute the upper boundary line
of the parish of Orleans and the city of New Orleans; and all that
portion of the city of Carrollton thus detached from the parish of
Jefferson and added to the city of New Orleans and parish of Orleans shall be governed by the mayor and administrators of *he city

NEW ORLEANS v. CLARK.

[Sup. ot.

of New Orleans, in accordance with existing laws, except so far as
not inconsistent with this act."
"SE c. 5. That all the rights, titles, and interest of the city of
Carrollton, as now existing, in and to all lands, tenements, hereditaments, bridges, ferries, streets, roads, wharves, markets, stalls, levees,
landing-places, buildings, and other property of whatsoever description and wherever situated, and of and with all goods, chattels,
money, effects, dues, demands, bonds, obligations, judgments and
judgment liens, actions and rights of action, books, accounts, and
vouchers, be, and they are hereby, vested in the city of New Orleans: Provided,that all estates, income funds, or property of every
description now held in trust by said city of Carrollton, or which
shall have been specially pledged or affected by the payment of
any debt, shall be held by the city of New Orleans, under this act,
upon and for the same use, trust, limits, limitation, charities, and
conditions as the same are now held; and the debt and all other
indebtedness or liabilities of the city of Carrollton, including the
funding and improvement bonds, and the bonds issued to the Jefferson City Gas-light Company, and known as the gas bonds, and
notes, interest coupons, wages, salary due or to become due, warrants, or other species of obligations whatsoever, shall be assumed
and paid by the city of New Orleans; and said city is hereby declared liable therefbr: Providled further, that all officers of said
city of Carrollton shall continue as at present constituted to discharge the duties of their respective offices until this act of incorporation can be completed by putting into possession of the proper
officers of the city of New Orleans the books, papers, records, documents, and other property now belonging to the city of Carrollton,
and no longer, and after which time all the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities possessed and enjoyed by the mayor and
council of the city of Carrollton shall cease and terminate: And
provided further, that the claims or vested rights of any person or
persons, or company or corporation, of said city of Carrollton, that
have been granted, acquired, or received from or against said corporation of the city of Carollton, or otherwise, shall not be interfered with, divested, or impaired by this act, nor by the city of New
Orleans, without adequate compensation."
"SECT. 8. That the act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the city
of Carrollton,' approved March 17, 1859, and all acts amendatory
thereof, be, and the same are hereby, repealed."
"SECT. 12. That all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith
)e, and the same are hereby, repealed; and this act shall take effect
*om and after its passage."

Oct.1877.]

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

Sect. 4 of an act of the General Assembly of Louisiana passed
in 1855, No. 263, provides: "That the constituted authorities of incorporated towns and
cities in this State shall not hereafter have power to contract any
debt or pecuniary liability, without fully providing in the ordinance
creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of
the debt or contract.'
The' city of Carrollton pleaded the general issue, and, in
addition, declared that it was in no wise bound for said bonds;
because, 1, they were issued by the officers of the city in violation of its charter; 2, that the ordinance and the contract
made under it were illegal, null, and void; and, if the city had
been expressly authorized to issue the bonds, the council, by
the ordinance contracting said debt, made no provision to pay
the principal or interest.
The gas company, in its answer, insisted that the bonds
issued under the contract for supplying the city with gas were
valid; that the city had accepted the works of the company,
and enjoyed the benefit of the same ever since, and was therefore
bound to pay the coupons as they became due. The answer
prayed that the city of Carrollton be called in warranty, and
be condemned to pay to the company any sum of money which
the company might be decreed to pay to the plaintiff. Mlarch
26, 1875, after said answer had been made, Clark filed a supplemental petition, averring that since the commencement of
his suit the legislature had passed an act, approved March
23, 1874, repealing the act incorporating Carrollton and annexing it to the city of New Orleans; and, further, that by the
fifth section of that act the latter city was made liable for said
bonds in solido with the said gas company.
To this supplemental petition the company filed an answer,
denying all the allegations of the petition tending in any way
to show responsibility on its part, and alleging that the city of
New Orleans was bound to hold the respondent harmless from
any claim of the plaintiff, and praying that said city be called
in warranty, and condemned to hold the respondent harmless, &c.
The city of New Orleans also filed an answer, insisting upon

NEw

ORLEANS V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

the exception filed by the city of Carrollton, and that it should
first be disposed of. After a general denial of the allegations
of the supplemental petition, the answer averred that the city
of Carrollton was without power to issue the bonds; that there
was neither a moral nor a legal obligation on New Orleans to
pay the same; and that any act of the legislature imposing
ech obligation was null and void.
There was a judgment in favor of Clark for $7,200 against
the gas company, and one in favor of the company, on the
call in warranty, against the city of New Orleans for a like
sum.
The company and the city each sued ;ut a writ of error, and
brought the case here.
Submitted on printed arguments for the Jefferson City Gaslight Company by 11r. Thomas . Semmes and It. Bobert
.Iott; for Clark, by Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Hf. Jeremiah 3T Wilson; and for the city of New Orleans, by Hr.
.Philip Phillips.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action upon several coupons for interest annexed
to bonds issued by the late city of Carrollton, in Louisiana, to
the Jefferson City Gas-light Company, a corporation created
under the laws of that State, for laying gas-pipes through certain streets of the city, and introducing gas for the use of its
citizens. The bonds were indorsed by the president of the
company, with its guaranty, for the payment of their principal
and interest. His authority to make this guaranty, so far as
it relates to the interest, was denied by the company; but the
Circuit Court held that the admissions and evidence in the case
showed a primafacie case of liability.
The bonds were issued pursuant to an ordinance of the city,
which provided for the payment of the interest there n, but
made no provision for the payment of the principal; and for
this omission, and because they were issued in aid of a private
corporation, their validity was questioned by the city of New
Orleans, upon which the liabilities of Carrollton were cast
upon its annexation to that city; and as it was contended in
answer to this position that the legislature had subsequently,

Oct. 1877.3

NEW ORLEANS V. CLARK.

in the act of annexation, legalized the issue, the power of the
legislature to do this was denied, but the Circuit Court held
that the legislature possessed the power; and the city of New
Orleans was adjudged bound to pay the bonds.
The record shows that the bonds were issued after the work
had been done for which the contract was made and the gas
had been introduced into the city, and that they were transferred to the plaintiff for a valuable consideration.
Two questions are presented for our determination :1st, Whether the Jefferson City Gas-light Company is liable on the guaranty made by its president for the interest on
the bonds; and,
2d, Whether it was competent for the legislature of Louisiana to legalize the issue of the bonds, if for any cause they were
originally invalid, or, more properly, to compel their payment
by the city of New Orleans.
1. The ordinance which authorized the contract with the
company, and the issue of the bonds of the city, in terms provided that the company should "guarantee the said bonds and
assume the payment of the principal thereof at maturity."
Their delivery to the company was made dependent upon this
condition; but as the provision mentioned that the company
was to assume payment of the principal, after specifying that
it was to guarantee the bonds, it is argued that the guaranty
of the principal only was intended. This is not, however, a
just inference from the language. The guaranty of the bonds
embraced both the principal and the interest. The payment
of bonds, without other designation, always implies a payment
of the principal sum and its incident; and a guaranty in similar terms covers both. The ordinance contemplated two undertakings by the company,- one to the bondholder, and one to
the city. The guaranty was to be for the security of the bondholder; it was to be an undertaking to answer for the city's
liability, and to be collateral to it. The other undertaking was
to be for the security of the city, by placing the company under
obligation to provide for the payment of the principal of the
bonds at their maturity, an obligation which otherwise would
not have existed.
The contract embraced the stipulations contained in the ordi-

NEW

ORLEANS

V.

CLARK.

[Sup. CL

nance, and the indorsement of the guaranty of the company
by its president on the bonds was a substantial compliance with
both. The language used, guaranteeing "the payment of the
principal and interest," only declared in terms what would have
been implied from a simple guaranty of the bonds. It is not
denied that the president was the proper officer to execute
whatever guaranty was authorized.
2. The invalidity of the bonds was asserted, as already stated,
on two grounds: first, that they were issued in aid of a private
corporation ; and, second, that the city of Carrollton, in issuing
them, created a debt, without providing in the same ordinance
the means of paying its principal. The first of these grounds
is not one which affects the validity of the bonds. A private
corporati6n, as well as individuals, may be employed by a city
in the construction of works needed for the health, comfort,
and convenience of its citizens; and, though such works may
be used by the corporation for its own gain, yet, as they advance
the public good, the corporation may be properly aided in their
construction by the city; and for that purpose its obligations
may be issued, unless some constitutional or legislative provision
stands in the way. The bonds here were not given to the company as a gratuity, but for a valuable consideration; and if the
company failed to pay them at maturity, and their payment was
made by the city, the gas-works were to become the property of
the city.
The second of these grounds is not without force. An act
of the legislature of Louisiana, passed in March, 1855, had declared that the constituted authorities of incorporated towns
and cities in the State should not thereafter "have power to
contract any debt or pecuniary liability, without fully providing in the ordinance creating the debt the means of paying the
principal and interest of the debt or contract." This enactment imposed a restriction upon the creation of liabilities by
municipal bodies, which could not be disregarded. It was intended to keep their expenditures within their means; and its
efficacy in that respect would be entirely dissipated, if debts
contracted in violation of it were held legally binding upon the
municipalities.
Assuming, then, that the bonds were invalid for the omission

Oet. 1877.]

NEW ORLEANS

V. CLARK.

stated, they still represented an equitable claim against the
city. They were issued for work done in its interest, of a
nature which the city required for the convenience of its citizens, and which its charter authorized. It was, therefore, competent for the legislature to interfere and impose the payment
of the claim upon the city. The books are full of caties where
claims, just in themselves, but which, from some irregularity or
omission in the proceedings by which they were created, could
not be enforced in the courts of law, have been thus recognized
and their payment secured. The power of the legislature to
require the payment of a claim for which an equivalent has
been received, and from the payment of which the city can only
escape on technical grounds, would seem to be clear. Instances
will readily occur to every one, where great wrong and injustice
would be done if provision could not be made for claims of this
character. For example, services of the highest importance
and benefit to a city may be rendered in defending it, perhaps, against illegal and extortionate demands; or moneys may
be advanced in unexpected emergencies to meet, possibly, the
interest on its securities when its means have been suddenly
cut off, without the previous legislative or municipal sanction
required to give the parties rendering the services or advancing
the moneys a legal claim against the city. There would be a
great defect in the power of the legislature if it could not in
such cases require payment for the services, or a reimbursement
of the moneys, and the raising of the necessary means by taxation for that purpose. A very different question would be presented, if the attempt were made to apply the means raised
to the payment of claims for which no consideration had been
received by the city.
The act of 1874, which annexed Carrollton to New Orleans,
provided that all property, rights, and interests of every kind
of the former city should be vested in the latter, and that the
debts and liabilities of Carrollton, "including the funding and
improvement bonds, and the bonds issued to the Jefferson
City Gas-light Company, and known as gas bonds," should be
assumed and paid by the city of New Orleans; and that city
was in terms declared liable therefor. Independently of this
legislation, the liabilities of Carrollton would have devolved

NEw ORLEANS V. CLARK.

[Sup. OtL

with its property upon New Orleans on the annexation to that
city, so far, at least, that they could be enforced against the
inhabitants and property brought by the annexation within its
jurisdiction. Broughton v. Pensacola,93 U. S. 266. Equitable
claims which had existed against the dissolved city would continue as before, and be equally subject to legislative recognition
and enforcement, or thei, payment might be required, as in this
case, by the act of annexation. The power of taxation which
the legislature of a State possesses may be exercised to any
extent upon property within its jurisdiction, except as specially
restrained by its own or the Federal Constitution; and its power
of appropriation of the moneys raised is equally unlimited. It
may appropriate them for any purpose which it may regard as
calculated to promote the public good. Of the expediency of
the taxation or the wisdom of the appropriation it is the sole
judge. The power which it may thus exercise over the reve-nues of the State it may exercise over the revenues of a city,
for any purpose connected with its present or past condition,
except as such revenues may, by the law creating them, be
devoted to special uses; and, in imposing a tax, it may prescribe the municipal purpose to which the moneys raised shall
be applied. A city is only a political subdivision of the State,
made for the convenient administration of the government.
It is an instrumentality, with powers more or less enlarged, according to the requirements of the public, and which may be
increased or repealed at the will of the legislature. In directing, therefore, a particular tax by such corporation, and the
appropriation of the proceeds to some special municipal purpose, the legislature only exercises a power- through its subordinate agent which it could exercise directly; and it does this
only in another way when it directs such corporation to assume
and pay a particular claim not legally binding for want of
some formality in its creation, but for which the corporation
has received an equivalent. Te People ex rel. Blanding v.
Burr,13 Cal. 343 ; Town of Guilford v. Supervisors of Chenango
County, 18 Barb. (N. Y.) 615; s. c. 13 N. Y. 143.
The Constitution of Louisiana of 1868, which provides that
no retroactive law shall be passed, does not forbid such legislation. A law requiring a municipal corporation to pay a demand

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY

CO. v. STEVENS.

which is without legal obligation, but which is equitable and
just in itself, being founded upon a valuable consideration
received by the corporation, is not a retroactive law, - no more
so than an appropriation act providing for the payment of a
pre-existing claim. The constitutional inhibition does not apply to legislation recognizing or affirming the binding obligation of the State, or of any of its subordinate agencies, with
respect to past transactions. It is designed to prevent retrospective legislation injuriously affecting individuals, and thus
protect vested rights from invasion.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILWAY CoNPANY v. STEVENS.
A., who was the owner of a patented car-coupling, for the adoption and use of
which by a railway company he was negotiating, went, at the request and
expense of the company, to a point on its road to see one of its officers in
relation to the matter. A free pass was furnished by the company to carry
him in its cars. During the passage, the car in which he was riding was
thrown from the track, by reason of the defective condition of the rails, and
he was injured. Held, 1. That the pass was given for a consideration, and
that he was a passenger for hire. 2. That, being such, his acceptance of the
pass did not estop him from showing that he was not subject to the terms and
conditions printed on the back of the pass, exempting the company from liability for any injury he might receive by the negligence of the agents of the
company, or otherwise.

ERmoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine.
This was an action on the case for negligence, brought against
the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada, to recover damages for

injuries received by Stevens whilst a passenger in its cars.
The plaintiff, being owner of a patented car-coupling, was nego-

tiating with the defendant, at Portland, Me., for its adoption
and use by the latter, and was requested by the defendant to
go to Montreal to see the superintendent of its car department
in relation to the matter, the defendant offering to pay his
expenses. The plaintiff consented to do this; and, in pursuance of the arrangement, be was furnished with a pass to carry

him in the defendant's cars.

This pass was in the usual form

