Oct. 1877.]

CH[OUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.

CHOUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.
A., having a claim against the government under his contract with the Navy
Department for building the iron-clad steam-battery "Etlah," executed to B.
a power of attorney authorizing him to sue for, recover, and receive all such
sum or sums of money, debts, goods, wares, and other demands whatsoever, and
especially payments that were or would be due on his contract for building
the "Etlab," with full power in and about the premises; to have, use, and take
all lawful means and ways in his name for the purposes aforesaid; and to make
acquittances or other sufficient discharges for him and in his name, and generally to do all other acts necessary and lawful to be done in and about the
premises. The contract fixed tht amount to be paid for the battery, and provided for its completion and delivery within eight months from June 24, 1863.
For every month that the delivery might be made earlier than the time fixed,
the contractor should receive $4,500, and for every month later lie should pay
a like sum. It also provided that the department might, at any time during
the progress of the work, make such alterations and additions to the plans and
specifications as it might deem necessary and proper, the extra expense caused
thereby to be paid at fair and reasonable rates, to be determined when the
changes were directed to be made. The battery was finished for delivery in
November, 1865, and the proper authorities of the department certified that
the extra work and materials, rendered necessary in making the alterations and
additions that were ordered, amounted to .$116,111. A portion of that sum
having previously been paid, a voucher, in favor of A., for $26,653.17, "being
the full and final payment on all extras, and in full for all claims and demands for that work," was approved by the department April 24, 1860, and
paid May 11 following to B., who, under his power of attorney, receipted it
in full. A.'s assignee, asserting that the extra work amounted to $172,273.55,
brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover the excess over the amount
paid, and .$118,283.30 alleged to be due, irrespective of extras, on account of
an increase in the price of labor and materials during the time that the completion of the vessel was delayed by reason of such alterations and additions.
Held, 1. That the power of attorney authorized B. to accept payment of the
voucher, which upon its face declared it was the last and full payment for the
extra work, and that his acceptance bound A., and barred a recovery for such
work. 2. That the United States is not liable to A. for the increased cost of
the labor and materials.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

On the ninth day of July, 1863, Charles W. McCord entered
into a written contract for building at St. Louis an iron-clad
steam-battery, which was built and delivered, and was called
the "Etlah." Complete specifications for its construction were
part of the contract; and the United States agreed to pay for
the battery the sum of $386,000. The contract also provided
that the Navy Department might make alterations and additions to the plans and specifications at any time during the

[Sup. Ct.

-GHOUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.

progress of the work, as it might deem necessary and proper,
and should pay any extra expense caused by such changes, at
fair and reasonable rates, to be determined when the changes
were directed to be made. It was also agreed that the battery should be completed and delivered -within eight months
from the 24th of June, 1863, and that for every month that the
delivery might be made earlier than that time McCord should
receive $4,500, and for every month later he should pay a like
sum.
The vessel was not finished ready for delivery until November, 1865, more than twenty months after the date fixed by
the contract; but the Court of Claims found that her cdmpletion within the stipulated time was prevented by the Unitd
States, and that the cost of the work required by the contract was, owing to the increased price of materials and skilled
labor, enhanced $118,283.20 above the sum originally specified. Many and important changes were made in the plan and
specifications for the battery by the bureau of construction and
repair of the Navy Department; but no agreement as totie
additional cost of the work was made, as the contract provide&
/
for, except in some matters not now in controversy.
This extra work the petition alleges was of the value ol
$172,273.55 ; and the Court of Claims so found. 8116,111 was
paid for it; and in this action the recovery of the difference
of $56,162.55 is sought. Under the finding, the only defence
to this branch of the case is that the sum paid was received
and accepted as payment in full, as appears by the following
voucher, certified by the auditor of the treasury for the Navy
Department: "ETLAH.-

PAYMtENT ON ACCOUNT OF EXTRAS.

"NEw YORK, April 24, 1866.

"U.S. Vavy Dpeartrzent to Charles W Mc Cord, Dr.
"(Appropriation: ' Construction and Repair:)
For work done to the light-draft monitor 'Etlah,'
which is extra to the contract dated June 24,
1863, being the full and final payment on all
extras, and in full for all claims and demands
for that work.......
...........

$31,114.00

Oct. 1877.]

CHOUTEAU v. UNITED STATES.

Less amount paid E. W. Barstow & Son, as per
$605.65
...............
order ......
Outfits and equipments called for by the con3,852.18
.........
tract, but not furnished ...
$4,457.83
$26,653.17
"I certify that the materials and labor which are extra to the
con
,dated June 24, 1863, put upon the vessel ' Etlah,' built by
Char
. McCord, amount in value to $116,111 (certificates having
n previously given for $85,000), and they are according to
direa ns which have been given from time to time.
"1ROBERT DANnY,
"proved
General Inspector Stearn-MachineryfortheNavy."

"F. H. GREGORY,
"Rear-Admiral Superintendina"

"NAvY

"BUREAU

DEPAETMEENT,

'CONSTRUCTION,'

&C.,

"April 26, 1866.
,653.17.]
pproved in triplicate for twenty-six thousand six hundred and
-three dollars and seventeen cents, payable by the paymaster
at New York.
"Jorml LENTHALT, Chief of Bureau."
"PAYMASTRER'S OFFICE, U. S. NAvY,
"29 BROADwAY, NEW YORK, May 11, 1866.
"Received of J. C. Eldredge, paymaster, twenty-six thousand
six hundred and fifty-three z dollars, in full of the within bill,
and have signed duplicate receipts.
CHARLES W. MCCORD,
"$26,653.17.]
"Per GnmAiN, SoN & Co., Att'ys.

S"1,887.

21,519 B2 "

,II certify that the above is a true copy of the voucher on file in
this office.
"S. J. W. TABOR, Auditor."
The powers of attorney under which the voucher was signed
by Gilman, Son & Co. are as follows : "Know all men by these presents, that I, Charles W. McCord,
of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, have made, constituted, and
appointed, and by these presents do make, constitute, and appoint,

CHOUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.

-[Sup. Ct,

Gilman, Son & Co., or either member of said firm, in the city of
New York, my true and lawful attorney, for me and in my name,
place, and stead, to collect from the navy agent or authorized officer
of the United States government all payments due or to become
due to me for building an iron-clad vessel at St. Louis, Missouri,
named the ' Etlab,' as per contract dated 24th June, 1863, giving
and geanting unto my said attorney full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully, to all intents and purposes, as I might or could do if personally present,
with full power of substitution and revocation, hereby ratifying
and confirming all that my said attorney or his substitute shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal the
twenty-fourth day of November, in the year 1863.
"CHaRLs W. MICCORD. [sEA.]
"Sealed and delivered in the presence of
"THOMAS L. TnaomN=."
"

NEW YoRn,
County of New Y-ore,

STATE OF

s

"Be it known, that, on the twenty-fourth day of November, 1863,,
before me, a notary public in and for the State of New York, duly
commissioned and sworn, dwelling in the city of New York, personally came Charles W. McCord, and acknowledged the above
letter of attorney to be his act and deed.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name and
affixed my seal of office the day and year last above written.
"Tomts L. THORNELL, Aotary -Public."
[Internal-revenue stamp, one dollar.]

"Know all men by these presents, that Charles W. McCord, of
the city of St. Louis and State of Missouri, have made, constituted,
and appointed, and by these presents do make, constitute, and appoint, Messrs. Gilman, Son & Co., of the city of New York, my true
and lawful attorney, for me and in my name, and for my use, to
ask, demand, sue for, recover, and receive all such sum or sums of
money, debts, goods, wares, and other demands whatsoever which
are or shall be due, owing, payable, and belonging to me, by any
manner or means whatsoever; especially to receive any payments
that are and will be due me by virtue of a contract entered into
with the Navy Department to build a light-draft monitor named
IEtlah,' said contract bearing date June 24, 1863, for which I am

Oct. 1877.]

CHOUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.

to receive, upon the full compliance of said contract, the sum of
$386,000, in eight equal payments, the Navy Department reserving
twenty-five per cent on such payments until completion and reception of said vessel: giving and granting unto my said attorneys
by these presents full power and authority in and about the premises
to have, use, and take all lawful ways and means, in my name, for
the purposes aforesaid; and upon the receipt of any such debts,
dues, or sums -)f money (as the case may be), acquittances, or other
sifficient discharges, for me and in my name to make and give, and
generally to do all other acts and things in the law whatsoever
needful and necessary to be done in and about the premises; for
me and in my name to do, execute, and perfbrm, as fully and to all
intents and purposes as I might or could do if personally present;
attorneys one or more under him, for the purposes aforesaid, to
make, constitute, and again at pleasure to revoke. Hereby ratifying and confirming all and whatsoever my said attorneys shall
lawfally do in and about the premises by virtue hereof.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this
second day of January, in the year of our Lord 1864.
"CHARLES W. MCCORD." [sEAL.]
"STATE

Or' MIsSOURI,)

County of St. Louis, ss.
"Be it remembered, that on the second day of January, 1864,
before me, the undersigned, John .ecko, a notary public duly commissioned and qualified, within and for the county aforesaid, came
Charles W. M eCord, who is personally known to me to be the same
person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing instrument of
writing as party thereto, and acknowledged the same to be his act
and deed for the purposes therein mentioned.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
my official seal the day and year last above written.
"JOHx Jncuo, N otary Public.'
The court decided that the claim for extras was barred by
IfcCord's receipt, and that the United States was not liable to
the contractor for the enhanced cost of labor and materials.
Chouteau, assignee of MeCord, brought the case here.
111r. Edward Lander and Mr. A. L. M2Ierriman for the appellant.
The receipt by Gilman, Son & Co. of a less amount than
was actually due on McCord's claim, and which was outside
VOL. V.

5

OHOUTEAU v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

the contract, cannot bind him and discharge the debt. When
certain special objects are enumerated in a power of attorney,
the general words and power will be restrained by the objects
specified. Byles on Bills, 82; Bosseter v. Rosseter, 8 Wend.
(N. Y.) 494; Wallace v. Branch Bank at 31obile, 1 Ala. 565;
Kingsley v. Bank of State, 8 Yerg. (Tenn.) 107; Story on
Agency, 98, 99.
The extension of time required by the contractor for completing the work was caused solely by the changes and alterations in the original plan and specifications that were ordered
by the bureau of construction and repair. The United States
is therefore liable to him for such an amount as will cover his
increased ouflay, occasioned by the rise in the price of work
and materials that took place during that time. Derrmott v.
Jones, 2 Wall. 1; Dubois v. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co.,
4 Wend. (N. Y.) 291; Robson v. Godfrey, 1 Hall (N. Y.),
236; Lee et al. v. Partridge,2 Duer (N. Y.), 468; Merrill v.
Ithaca &. Owego Railroad Co., 16 Wend. (N. Y.) 556.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MnI R, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It appears from the findings of the Court of Claims that the
proper officer of the Navy Department estimated the same
extra work and material at $116,111, which that court now
estimates at $172,273.55; and that McCord accepted this sum,
if the voucher is binding on him, as the full value of his labor
and materials, and acknowledged it to be payment in full.
His name is signed to this receipt by Gilman, Son & Co.,
his attorneys ; and it is insisted by counsel that they could only
bind him for the sum received, and not for its acceptance as full
compensation. It is said in argument that they were bankers
in New York, and had no other power than to receipt for such
sums as might be paid them.
Two powers of attorney are produced from McCord to Gilman, Son & Co.,- one of the date of Nov. 24, 1863, and the other
.Tan. 2, 1864. These are very full, and especially the latter.
It makes them his true and lawful attorneys, "to sue for, recover, and receive all sums of money, debts, goods, wares, and

Oct. 1877.]

CHOUTEAU V. UNITED STATES.

other demands whatsoever," and especially payments that are or
will be due on his contract for building the "Etlah; "gives "them
full power in and about the premises to have, use, and take all
lawful ways and means in his name for the purposes aforesaid,
and to make such acquittances, or other sufficient discharges, for
me and in my name, and generally to do all other acts necessary and lawful to be done in and about the premises."
We are of opinion that this authorized Gilman, Son & Co. to
accept payment of a voucher which declared on its face that it
was the last, the full payment for the extra work done on the
vessel, and thereby bind their principal to such acceptance.
But if we could be mistaken in this, the reasonable presumption is that Gilman, Son & Co. had nothing to do with obtaining this voucher from the Navy Department, but that it was so
obtained by McCord himself, and forwarded by him to Gilman,
Son & Co. for collection of the paymaster at New York. This
is quite consistent with the fact that they were mere bankers.
It is certainly fair to suppose that McCord presented his own
statement of the account to the navy officers, and the final approval of the chief of the bureau of construction at Washington
is dated April 26, 1866. The payment as indorsed on that
same voucher by the paymaster at New York to Gilman, Son
& Co. is dated May 11, 1866, which is just about a reasonable
time for the voucher to have been received from Washington
by McCord at St. Louis, and by him forwarded to Gilman, Son
& Co. at New York for collection. If this be the true history
of the voucher, McCord is bound by his own actions, for the
voucher, while in his-hands, had on its face the clearest statement that the sum therein allowed was "the full and final
payment on all extras, and in full for all claims and demands
for that work," and if he forwarded it in this shape to his
bankers to get the money on it, without protest, he must be
bound by that statement in the voucher.
The Court of Claims finds that the delay in completing the
vessel was caused by the changes ordered by the United States,
and that, owing to the rise in the prices of the labor and materials on the work done under the original contract, and without
reference to the changes, the cost of that work was increased
to the buil ler $118,283.20.

EX PARTE EASTON.

[Sup. Ct.

The appellants asserted a claim for this amount also, which
the court refused.
It is very clear that both parties contemplated the probability that the work would not be completed at the precise
period of eight months from the date of the contract. They
also contemplated that changes would be made in the construction of the battery. They made such provision for these matters as they deemed necessary for the protection of each party.
For the reasonable cost and expenses of the changes made in
the construction, payment was to be made; but for any increase
in the cost of the work not changed, no provision was made.
There was a provision for delay, by which the contractor was
to submit to pay $4,500 for every month of that delay. This
provision, the only one on that subject, if strictly enforced,
might have made him a still greater loser; but it seems to
have been waived. But we are very clear that without any
such provision he must be held to have taken the risk of the
prices of the labor and materials which he was bound to furnish,
as every other contractor does who agrees to do a specified job
at a fixed price. It is one of the elements which he takes into
account when he makes-his bargain, and he cannot expect the
other party to guarantee him against unfavorable changes in
Judgment affirmed.
those prices.

Ex

PARTE EASTONT.

1. Claims for wharfage, arising out of either an express or an implied contract,
are cognizable in admiralty.
2. Where the wharfage has not been agreed upon by the parties, the wharfinger
is entitled, as upon an implied contract, to a just and reasonable compensation for the use of his wharf.
3. If the vessel or water-craft is a foreign one, or belongs to a port of a State
other than that where the wharf is used, the claim of the wharfinger for
such use is a maritime lien against the vessel, which lie may enforce by a
proceeding in reia, or he may resort to a libel in personam against the owner

of such vessel or water-craft.
C Whether a writ of prohibition should be issued to the District Court, when
proceeding as a court of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, depends upon
the facts stated in the record upon which that court is called to act. Matters deltors that record, which are set forth in the petition for the writ, cannot

be considered here.

