Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. HOUSTON.

gold, to be ascertained by a count of coins," and that "it is not
distinguishable, . . . in principle, from a contract to deliver an
equal weight of bullion of equal fineness;" but, notwithstanding this, it is a contract to pay money, and none the less so
because it designates for payment one of the two kinds of
money which the law has made a legal tender in discharge
of money obligations.
This judgment is for coined money, which at the time it was
rendered and now is worth more in the market as merchandise
than paper money; but our jurisdiction is to be determined by
the amount of money to be paid and not the kind. If, instead
of paper dollars and gold dollars legalized as money, the law
had provided for silver dollars and gold dollars, and this judgment had been for payment in gold, we think it would hardly
be contended that this court could take jurisdiction, because
when the judgment was rendered gold happened to be worth
more in the market as merchandise than silver; but, in principle, that case would not be different from this. Notwithstanding, therefore, the judgment is for coined money, we are satisfied that we have no jurisdiction.
Writ of error dismissed.

R mtoAD CoMPANY v. HOUSTON.
1. The neglect of the engineer of a locomotive of a railroad train to sound its
whistle or ring its bell on nearing a street-crossing does not relieve a traveller on the street from the necessity of taking ordinary precautions for his
safety. Before attempting to cross the railroad track, he is bound to use
his senses, - to listen and to look, - in order to avoid any possible accident
from an approaching train. If he omits to use them, and walks thoughtlessly upon the track, or if, using them, he sees the train coming, and, instead of waiting for it to pass, undertakes to cross the track, and in either
case receives any injury, he so far contributes to it as to deprive him of
any right to complain. If one chooses in such a position to take risks, he
must suffer the consequences. They cannot be visited upon the railro.d
company.
2. To instruct upon assumed facts to which no evidence applies, is error.

EnRon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This was an action against the Chicago, Rock Island, and

RAILROAD CO. V. HOUSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Pacific Railroad Company, brought under a statute of Missouri,
which subjects a corporation to a penalty of $5,000 where death
is caused by an injury resulting from "the negligence, unskilfulness, or criminal intent" of any of its officers, agents, servants, or employgs, whilst running, conducting, or managing
a locomotive, car, or train of cars. In this case, the deceased
was the wife of the plaintiff; her death was caused by injuries
inflicted by the defendant's locomotive whilst the train was
passing through the village of Cameron in that State. The
defendant had two tracks, one main and the other a side track,
which extended through a considerable portion of the village, and
passed south of Second Street. The tracks were separated from
each other by only a few feet. The house at which the deceased
resided was north of Second Street and east of Harris Street,
which the tracks crossed. South of the two tracks, and about
ninety feet east from Harris Street, was situated a building
belonging to the company, called the section-house, near which
was a well of water. The building and well were on the company's right of way. The train was due, on the evening when
the accident occurred, at half-past six, and it entered the village
from the west. At that time a gravel-train had been switched
on the side track east of Harris Street, between the sectionhouse and the depot. Freight-cars were also standing on the
side track west of, but near, Harris Street. There was a plankcrossing over the railway at Harris Street. When cars were
not standing on the tracks thero was nothing to prevent one
passing in a direct or nearly direct line from the house of the
deceased to the section-house. Persons, in going to the well
from that house, sometimes passed the road at the public crossing, and sometimes on the right of way of the company east of
Harris Street. The evidence disclosed by the record relating
to the accident only shows that at about half-past six in the
evening of the 13th of March, 1872, the deceased took a pail
upon her arm and left her house, and, it is supposed, started for
the well near the section-house. She was seen by her daughter
as she left, and by the engineer only a few seconds before she
was struck by the locomotive. It does not appear that she was
seen by any other person after leaving the house before she
was injured. When discovered by the engineer, the locomotive

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD Co.

v.

HOUSTON.

was within four feet of her. She was then on the main track
of the railway, about ninety feet east of Harris Street, and was
apparently passing from the track south. She was struck by
the extreme end of the beam of timber running across the
engine, known as the bumper, and was thrown into a ditch
about ten feet from the section-house. The engineer testified,
thai when he discovered her it was impossible to stop the train
so as to avoid striking her. She died within an hour after
Seceiving the injury.
It appears from the evidence, also, that the railway was in
plain view from the house of the deceased, and that a train
approaching from the west could be seen from it, and from
any point between the Harris Street crossing and the sectionhouse for a distance of three-quarters of a mile. At the time
of the accident there was a bright moonlight; and the headlight of the engine was burning, and the movement of the
train created a loud noise. There was some conflict of evidence as to the rate of speed at which the train was running
at the time, and whether its bell was rung and its whistle
sounded. As to the other facts stated, the evidence was all
one way.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, whereupon the company brought the case here. The substance of
the charge of the court below to the jury is stated in the opinion
of the court.
M11r. tomas F. Withrow for the plaintiff in error.
The court below erred in charging the jury upon assumed
facts of which no evidence was offered. Michigan Ban7 v.
Bldred, 9 Wall. 544; United States v. Breiting, 20 How. 252;
Goodman v. Simonds, id. 343; Chandler v. F'on Roeder, et
al., 24 id. 224; Improvement Company v. Munson, 14 Wall.
442, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. v. Arms et al., 91
U. S. 489; Artz v. Chicago, Rock Island, & Pacific Railroad
Co., 34 Iowa, 154.
Under the evidence, the court should have instructed the
jury to find for the defendant. The deceased was a trespasser,
and the company only liable for wilful negligence. H7arlan v.
St. Louis, Kansas City, J -Yorthern Railroad Co., 64 Mo. 480;
_Philadelphia & Reading Bailroad Co. v. Hummell, 44 Pa. St.

RAILROAD 00. V. H1OUSTON.

[Sup. t

375; Finlayson v. Railroad Company, 1 Dill. 579; Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. Godfrey, 71 Iii. 501.
Where it is manifest that, upon the evidence, the court
should set aside a verdict against a party, it is its duty to
charge the jury not to return suc1f a verdict. Pleasants v.
Pant, 22 Wall. 116 ; ITmprovement Company v. ktunson, supra;
Wilds v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 24 N. Y. 430; lake Shore
4. ichlqan Southern Railroad Co. v. liller, 25 Mich. 274.
The deceased did not exercise that degree of care and diligence required of her. Wild v. Hudson riiver Railroad Co.,
29 N. Y. 315: Pennsylvania railroad Co. v. Beale, 73 Pa. St.
504; North Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Heileman, 49 id.
60; Butterfield v. Western railway Corporation, 10 Allen
(Mass.), 532; Wheelock v. Boston & Albany Railroad Co., 105
Mass. 203; Gaynor v. Old Colony &.Newport Railroad Co.,
100 id. 208; Burns v. Boston &'Lowell railroad Co., 101 id.
50; Lucas, Adm'r, v. Taunton &.New Bedford Railroad Co.,
6 Gray (Mass.), 64; Wild v. Hudson River Railroad Co., supra;
_Ernst v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 39 IN. Y. 61; Wilcox v.
Rome & Watertown railroad Co., id. 358; Davis v. New York
Central &.Hudson River Railroad Co., 47 id. 400; TWilds v.
Hudson River Railroad Co., supra; Gorton v. -rie Railway
Co., 45 N. Y. 660; Steves v. Oswego 4. Syracuse Railroad Co.,
18 id. 422; Sheffield v. Rochester 4. Syracuse Railroad Co., 21
Barb. (N. Y.) 339; Gonzales v. New York & H1arlem railroad
Co., 38 N. Y. 440; Morris & -Essex Railroad Co. v. B'aslan et
al., 33 N. J. L. 149; Telfer v. Northern Railroad Co., 30 id.
188; Pennoyer v. Central Railroad Co., 25 id. 558; Toledo 4
Wabash railroad Co. v. Shuckman, Adm'r, 50 Ind. 42; Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne, &.Chicago Railroad Co. v. Vining, 27 id.
513 ; Lafayette 4&Indianapolis Railroad Co. v. Huffman, 28 id.
287; Toledo & Wabash Railroad Co. v. Goddard, 25 id. 185;
Chicago & Rock Island Railroad Co. v. Still, 19 Ill. 500; Galena
4. Chicago Union Railroad Co. v. Dill, 22 id. 265; Chicago &.
Alton railroad Co. v. Gretzner, 46 id. 74; Chicago 4. Northwestern railway Co. v. Sweeney, 52 id. 325.
r'. Jefferson Chandler, contra.
The charge given the jury covers every aspect of the case as
presented by the evidence.

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD C0. v. ]HIOUSTON.

As to the negligence of the defendant. Railroad Company v.
Whitton, 13 Wall. 270; M1aginnis v. Railroad Company, 52 N.Y.
215; PhiladelphiaRailroad Co. v. Hagan et al., 47 Pa. St. 244;
Chicago, Burlington, 4' Quincy Railroad Co. v. Payne, 59 Ill.
534; Artz v. Chicago &'Rock Island Railroad Co., 34 Iowa,
154; Railroad Company v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657; Batimore 4'
Ohio Railroad Co. v. Trainor, 33 Md. 542; Same v. Bcteler,
38 id. 568; O'31arav. Railroad Company, 38 N. Y. 445 ; Renwick v. New York Central Railroad Co., 36 id. 132; Beisiegel
v. Same, 34 id. 622; Richardson v. Same, 45 id. 846; White v.
Phillips, 15 0. B. N. s. 245; State v. Manchester 4' Lawrence
Railroad,52 N. I. 528; Brown v. The Hannibal 4' St. Joseph
Railroad Co., 50 MIo. 461.
As to contributory negligence. Railroad Company v. WMitton, supra; Railroad Company v. Stout, supra; Smith v. Union
Railway Co., 61 Mo. 588; Zennayde v. PacificRailroad Co., 45
id. 255; Burham v. St. Louis ,f P. M. Railroad Co., 56"id. 338;
Tabor v. Mfissouri Valley Railroad Co., 46 id. 353; Brown v. The
Hannibal 4' St. Joseph Railroad Co., 50 id. 461; Walsh v. Mississippi Valley Transportation Co., 52 id. 434; Artz v. Chicago,
Rock Island, & Pacific Railroad Co., supra; Baltimore 4' Ohio
Railroad Co. v. Trainor, supra; Same v. Fitzpatrick, 35 Md.
32; Railroad Company v. State, 36 id. 366; Brown v. Lynn,
31 Pa. St. 510; Railroad Company v. Chendworth, 52 id. 382;
Gray v. Scott, 66 id. 345; Butler v. Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad Co., 28 Wis. 487; The Lafayette & IndianapolisRailroad
Co. v. Adams, 26 Ind. 76; The Bellefontaine Railroad Co. v.
Hunter, 33 id. 365; Kerwhacker v. The Cleveland, Columbus, 4'
CincinnatiRailroad Co., 3 Ohio St. 172; Same v. Terry, 8 id.
570; Maon 4' Western Railroad Co. v. Davis, 18 Ga. 679;
Central Railroad and Banking Co. v. Davis, 19 id. 437; Daley
v. Norwich & Worcester Railroad Co., 26 Conn. 591; Trow v.
The Vermont CentralRailroad Co., 24 Vt. 487 ; Bridge v. The
GrandJunction Railway Co., 3 M. & W. 244; Lane v. Atlantic
Works, 107 Mass. 104; Britton v. Inhabitants, &c., id. 347.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
If the positions most advantageous for the plaintiff be as.

RAILROAD

Co. v.

HOUSTON.

[Sup. Ot.

sumed as correct, that the train was moving at an unusual rate
of speed, its bell not rung, and its whistle not sounded, it is
still difficult to see on what ground the accident can be attributed solely to the "negligence, unskilfulness, or criminal
intent" of the defendant's engineer. Had the train been moving at an ordinary rate of speed, it would have been impossible
for him to stop the engine when within four feet of the deceased. And she was at the time on the private right-of-way
of the company, where she had no right to be. But, aside
from this fact, the failure of the engineer to sound the whistle
or ring the bell, if such were the fact, did not relieve the
deceased from the necessity of taking ordinary precautions for
her safety. Negligence of the company's employ6s in these
particulars was no excuse for negligence on her part. She was
bound to listen and to look, before attempting to cross the railroad track, in order to avoid an approaching train, and not to
walk carelessly into the place of possible danger. Had she.
used her senses, she could not have failed both to hear and to
see the train which was coming. If she omitted to use them,
and walked thoughtlessly upon the track, she was guilty of
culpable negligence, and so far contributed to her injuries as to
deprive her of any right to complain of others. If, using them,
she saw the train coming, and yet undertook to cross the track,
instead of waiting for the train to pass, and was injured, the
consequences of her mistake and temerity cannot be cast upon
the defendant. No railroad company can be held for a failure
of experiments of that kind. If one chooses, in such a position,
to take risks, he must bear the possible consequences of failure.
Upon the facts disclosed by the undisputed evidence in the case
we cannot see any ground for a recovery by the plaintiff. Not
even a plausible pretext for the verdict can be suggested, unless
we wander from the evidence into the region of conjecture and
speculation. Under these circumstances, the court would not
have erred had it instructed the jury, as requested, to render a
verdict for the defendant.
But the plaintiff in error specially complains that the court
below gave instructions which assumed as established matters
not in proof, and thus directed the attention of the jury to
subjects which might mislead their judgment. Thus, while the

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. HOUSTON.

train coming from the west could be seen, as already stated, at
any point between Harris Street crossing and the section-house
for a distance of three-quarters of a mile, the court in its
charge assumed that the light from the train might have been
obstructed by cars on the side track in the vicinity of the
place where the injury was inflicted, and told them that
whether the view was thus obstructed was for them to deter.
mine. Again, there was no evidence of any attempt on the
part of the deceased to cross the railway at the Harris Street
crossing. She was not seen, as already stated, except when
leaving her house, until immediately previous to her injury,
and then she was ninety feet east of the crossing. Yet the
court, at the request of the plaintiff, instructed the jury, as to
the right of the deceased in passing the railway upon a public
crossing, to rely upon a substantial compliance by the servants
of the company with the duties required by law in giving signals and warnings of approach; and as to its liability if the
deceased was killed by the cars while they were running to and
over a public street-crossing, without giving the required and
usual signals of approach: and further instructed them, upon
its own motion, that there was a controversy upon the evidence
whether she crossed or attempted to cross the railway at the
Harris Street crossing, or at a place not a crossing; and that this
was a question of fact for their determination.
To instruct a jury upon assumed facts to which no evidence
applied was error. Such instructions tended to mislead them,
by withdrawing their attention from the proper points involved
in the issue. Juries are sufficiently prone to indulge in conjectures, without having possible facts not in evidence suggested
for their consideration. In no respect could the instructions
mentioned have aided them in reaching a just conclusion.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for
a new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTicE HARLAN did not sit in this case.

