Oct. 1877.]

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

FABBIi v. MURPHY.
C'rtain goods were imported in November, 1869, and stored in a bonded warehouse until March 20, 1871, when they were withdrawn for consumption.
Held, that, having so remained in such warehouse, they were, under the act
of March 14, 1866 (14 Stat. 8), subject to the additional duty of ten per cent
thereby imposed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In November, 1869, Fabbri & Chauncey imported from
Mlanilla into New York certain sugar, which, on the seventeenth day of that month, was stored in a United States
bonded warehouse, where it remained until March 20, 1871,
when it was withdrawn for consumption. The duty at the
latter date amounted to $34,360.50, gold, to which ten per cent
,aas added by the defendant Murphy, then collector of New
York, as the sugar had remained in the bonded warehouse
more than one year. The additional ten per cent was paid
under protest, and an appeal taken from the collector's liquidation and decision. The Secretary of the Treasury having
affirmed that decision, this suit was seasonably brought by the
plaintiffs to recover the ten per cent, with interest thereon from
the time of its payment. At the trial, they requested the court
to charge, in substance, that the additional ten per cent was
illegally imposed. This request was denied, and the jury told
that, upon the uncontradicted evidence, the defendant was entitled to a verdict, which was rendered accordingly. To the
instruction given and to those refused the plaintiffs duly excepted, and sued out this writ.

Mr. Grosvenor P. Lowrey for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- GeneralSmith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CL=ORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Goods imported here from a foreign country may be entered
for consumption or for warehousing; but, when entered for consumption, the requirement is that the duties shall be paid, or be
secured to be paid, before a permit for landing the goods is
granted. 1 Stat., sect. 62, p. 673.

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

[Sup. ot.

Importations of the kind are required to be landed in open
day; and the collection act provides that the goods shall not be
landed or delivered from the ship without a permit from the
collector. Examination of the entry is usually made by the
entry-clerk; and, if found correct, the collector then proceeds to
estimate the duties, as shown by the invoice value and quantity,
and if the estimated amount of the duties is paid, or secured to
be paid, as required by law, the collector is then authorized to
grant a permit for the discharge and landing of the cargo.
Kimball v. Collector, 10 Wall. 436.
Merchandise, if duly imported, with certain exceptions not
necessary to be noticed, may be entered for warehousing without paying the duties at the time of the entry, in which event
the goods are delivered into the possession of the collector, and
are deposited, at the option of the owner, importer, consignee,
or agent, at his expense, in any public warehouse or other place
provided by law for the storage of such property.
Both the duties and expenses are required to be ascertained
at the time of the entry of the goods for warehousing, and the
duties and charges are to be secured by the bond of the owner,
importer, or consignee, with surety or sureties to the satisfaction of the collector, the goods being at all times subject to the
orders of the depositor, upon the payment of the proper duties
and expenses.- United States v. Benson, 2 Cliff. 520.
By the record, it appears that the plaintiffs, in the month of
November, 1869, imported from Manilla one million nine hundred and sixty-three thousand four hundred and fifty pounds of
fugar; that on the 17th of the same month they made entry
of the whole amount for warehouse, and that the same were
duly stored in a public bonded warehouse, situated in the city
of. New York, as appears from the warehouse entry and the
return of the weigher; that the sugars were classified on the
warehouse entry by the appraiser as not above No. 12, Dutch
standard, in color; and that the duties, on the 17th of January
following, were assessed at three cents a pound, under the then
existing tariff. On the 20th of January, 1871, the plaintiffs
made a withdrawal entry of the sugars for consumption, which
throughout the whole period, from the time they were stored to
the date of the withdrawal entry, had remained in the public

Oct. 1877.]

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

bonded warehouse. Prior to that time, to wit, on the 16th of
the same month, the sugars were re-classified by the appraiser,
under the act of Dec. 22, 1870, as appears by a memorandum
on the withdrawal entry for consumption, as not above No. 7,
Dutch standard, in color, and the rate of entry was noted by
the appraiser on the entry at 14 cents per pound.
Apart from that, it also appears that, on the 20th of March
in the same year, the duties on the sugars were liquidated by
the collector at the reduced rate noted on the withdrawal entry,
making the amount $34,360.50, with an additional duty of ten
per cent on the previous duty imposed under the act of the 14th
of March, 1866, the goods imported having remained in the
public bonded warehouse for a longer period than one year.
By that act, all goods, wares, and merchandise remaining in
warehouse under bond on the first day of May of that year
might be withdrawn for consumption within one year from the
date of original importation, on payment of the duties and
charges to which they were subject by law at the time of such
withdrawal. 14 Stat. 8.
Ten per cent on the original duty amounts to $3,436.05, and
the two sums amount to $ 37,796.55.
Payment of the original duty was made without objection;
but the record shows that the plaintiffs paid the additional
duty of ten per cent under protest, and instituted the present
suit to recover back the amount. Proper notice in writing was
given by the plaintiffs to the collector, that they were dissatisfied with his decision in the final liquidation of the duties; and
on the day the payment was made they appealed from his decision to the Secretary of the Treasury, who subsequently
affirmed the decision of the collector.
Interest at six per cent on the amount of the additional duty
is $593.27, making the additional duty, adding the interest to
the date of the judgment, $4,029.30.
All of these facts were proved by the plaintiffs, the defendant offering no testimony, and the court directed a verdict for
the defendant. Exceptions were filed by the plaintiffs; and
they sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause into this
court.
Errors are assigned as follows: 1. That the court erred in
voL. v.

13

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Or.

refusing to charge the jury that, if they found that the sugars
were not above No. 7, Dutch standard, in color, and were in
public warehouse on Dec. 31, 1870, and so continued until
March 20, 1871, and were on that day entered to be withdrawn
for consumption, the sugars were not subject to any other duty
than at the rate of 11 cents per pound. 2. That the court erred
in refusing to instruct the jury that, if they found the facts to
be as stated in the preceding assignment of error, the collector
illegally exacted the additional duty of ten per cent. 3. That
the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the amount of the additional duty
of ten per cent exacted by the collector, with interest.
Import duties upon the sugars at the rate of 11 cents per
pound, it is conceded, were properly exacted by the collector;
and the record shows that the duties were finally liquidated at
that rate before the sugars were withdrawn from the public
bonded warehouse for consumption, and that the plaintiffs paid
the whole of that amount without protest. Both parties agree
that goods deposited in a public warehouse, and being there on
the first day of May, 1866, might be withdrawn for consumption within one year from the date of the original importation,
on payment of the duties and charges to which they were subject by law at the time of such withdrawal.
Imported, as the sugars in question were, on the 17th of
November, 1869, it is clear that the plaintiffs might have
withdrawn the same for consumption on payment of the duties
to which they were subject by law, if withdrawn within one
year from the time the importation was made; but they did not
make any such entry until the 20th of the following March,
more than four months after the year allowed for the purpose
had expired.
Such depositors of imported goods might withdraw the same
for consumption within one year from the date of importation
without paying any thing beyond the duties and charges; but
the privilege extended to depositors did not stop there, as
appears by what follows in the same section. Instead of that,
the provision is, that, after the expiration of one year from the
date of original importation, and until the expiration of three
years from said date, any goods, wares, or merchandise in bond

Oct. 1877.]

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

as aforesaid ma3 be withdrawn for consumption on payment of
the duties assessed on the original entry and charges, and an
additional duty of ten per cent of the amount of such duties
and charges.
Pursuant to that provision in the act of the 14th of March,
1866, the collector exacted the additional duty which is the
subject of contest under the present writ of error.
Certain intimations are made by the parties respectively that
the computation of the collector is erroneous; but the court is
of the opinion that it is exactly correct, and that it does not
lie with the plaintiffs to call it in question, as they allege in
their declaration that the additional duty exacted by the collector is ten per cent of the duties properly assessed on the
merchandise.
Responsive to that theory of the defence, the plaintiffs insist
that the first clause of the twenty-sixth section of the act of
the 14th of July, 1870, 16 Stat. 269, supersedes the provision
invoked by the defendant, and that it gave to them the right
to withdraw the sugars for consumption without paying any
thing except the original duties and charges, as finally liquidated and noted in the withdrawal entry.
Imported goods, wares, and merchandise, the section provides,
which may be in the public stores or bonded warehouses on
the day and year the act shall take effect, shall be subjected
to no other duty upon the entry thereof for consumption than
if the same were imported after that day. When that act was
passed, the sugars imported by the plaintiffs had been in the
public warehouse nearly eight months, and the sugars could
remain there something more than four months longer before
the year would have expired during which the owner, importer,
or consignee might withdraw the same for consumption under the prior act, on payment of the liquidated duties and
charges.
Suppose the new act applies to the case before the court,
which is not admitted, still it is clear that it would not supersede the defence arising under the prior act, as four months
remained during which the plaintiff might have withdrawn the
goods for cc nsumption without being subjected to any additional
duty undei the prior act, and for the further reason, that the

FABBRI V. MKURPHY.

[Sup. Ct.

prior act is not repealed by the new act under which the plaintiffs claim, nor is the provision of the new act repugnant to that
of the prior act. Nothing like inconsistency appears in the
provisions of the two acts at the passage of the latter, as applied
to the case before the court, as the plaintiffs might under either
act have withdrawn their goods deposited in the public warehouse at any time within four months subsequent to the passage
of the new act, on payment of the duties and charges finally
liquidated by the collector, and noted by the appraiser on the
withdrawal entry.
Authorities to show that there must be a positive repugnancy
between the provisions of the new law and the old, to work a
repeal of the old law by implication, and that even then the
old law is only repealed to the extent of the repugnancy, are
very numerous and decisive. TFood v. United States, 16 Pet.
342.
Repeal by implication, upon the ground that the subsequent
provision upon the same subject is repugnant to the prior law,
is not favored in any case, and must always meet with disfavor
where the attempt is made to apply the principle in the construction of the revenue laws of the United States.
Acts of Congress of the kind are often very complex in their
provisions, in order to enable those charged with their execution to protect the treasury against the constant attempts of
importers to evade the payment of new duties or increased
taxation. New regulations often become necessary to enable
the officers of the customs to defeat such designs; and the rule
is, that in such cases there ought to be a manifest and irreconcilable repugnancy to warrant the conclusion that the old law
is abrogated, or that the new law was intended to supersede the
antecedent provision. Aldridge v. Williams, 8 How. 9; The
-DistilledSpirits, 11 'Tall. 356.
Concede the theory of the plaintiffs to be correct, and it
would follow that the sugars imported by the plaintiffs might
remain in the public warehouse for an indefinite period without paying the liquidated duties, and without subjecting the
importer, owner, or consignee to any additional charge when
he should withdraw the same for consumption. Congress, it
is believed, never intended that any such result should follow,

Oct. 1877.]

FOBBRI V. MURPHY.

as it would be contrary to the policy of the government, as
shown in all the acts of Congress establishing and regulating
the warehousing system.
Authority to warehouse certain imported goods was granted
by Congress at a very early period in our history. 1 Stat. 673.
Option was given to the importers of teas, by the sixty-second
section of the original collection act, either to secure the duties,
as in case of other importations, or to give bond to the collector
of the district where the teas were landed in double the amount
of the duties, with condition for the payment of the same in
two years from the date of the bond. Whenever the importer
elected to give the bond, the requirement was that the goods
should be deposited, at the expense of the importer, in one or
more storehouses therein described. Regulations to the same
effect were subsequently enacted in respect to the importation
of wines and distilled spirits. 2 id. 469. Duties under that
act were to be paid in twelve calendar months from the date
of the bond, and the collector was required to accept the bond
without surety.
Corresponding regulations were made at a later period in
respect to wool and the manufactures of wool, or manufactures
of which wool was a component part. 4 Id. 591. Imported
goods of the kind might be placed in public stores under bond,
subject to the payment of customary storage and charges, and
to the payment of interest at the rate of six per cent per annum
while so stored; and the provision was, that the duties on the
articles so stored should be paid, one-half in three months and
the other half in six months from the date of importation.
Duties of import were required by the subsequent tariff act
to be paid in cash; and it was provided, in case of failure to pay
the duties as required, that the collector should take possession
of the same, and that the goods should be deposited in the public stores, there to be kept with due and reasonable care, at the
charge and risk of the owner, importer, consignee, or agent.
Goods of the kind might remain in public store for sixty days;
but, if they remained beyond that period without payment of
the duties, they were required to be appraised and sold by the
collector. 5 id. 562. Throughout those provisions, the plain
inference is that" Congress did not regard the importation as

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Ot.

complete while the goods remained in the custody of the proper
officers of the customs.
At a still later period, Congress passed the act to establish a
warehousing system, in which it is provided that, in case any
goods, wares, or merchandise deposited in public stores shall
remain in the same beyond one year without payment of the
duties and charges thereon, the same shall be appraised . . .
and sold by the collector at public auction, under the regulations therein prescribed. 9 id. 53, 399.
Alterations were made in the warehousing system by a subsequent act, which provided that goods remaining in warehouse,
and goods subsequently entered for warehousing under bond,
may continue in warehouse, without the payment of the duties,
for a period of three years from the date of the importation,
and that the same may be withdrawn for consumption on payn;ient of the duties and charges. 10 id. 271.
Increased revenue being required, Congress passed the act
of the 5th of August, 1861, the fifth section of which enacted
that goods actually on shipboard and bound to the United
States, and all goods on deposit in warehouses and public stores
at the passage of that act, shall be subject to pay such duties
as were provided by law before and at the time of the passage
of the act. 12 id. 293.
Provision was also made by the same section that goods deposited in public store or bonded warehouse after the act should
take effect and go into operation, if designed for consumption
here, must be withdrawn therefrom, or the duties thereon.be
paid, in three months after the same are deposited; and that
goods designed for exportation and consumption in foreign
countries may be withdrawn by the owner at any time before
the expiration of three years after the same are deposited,such goods, if not withdrawn in three years, to be regarded as
abandoned to the government, and to be disposed of as therein
provided.
Three months were allowed to owners within which to withdraw their goods from the public store or warehouse, or to pay
the liquidated duties; but the further provision was, that, if they
neglect to improve that privilege within three months from the
time of the deposit, the goods may be withdriwn and entered

Oct. 1877.]

FABBRI V. MURPHY.

for consumption at any time within two years of the time of
their deposit, upon the payment of the legal duties, with an
addition of twenty-five per cent thereon.
Events beyond control made it necessary in that period that
taxes should follow taxes in rapid succession; but it cannot be
admitted that the taxes were any the less obligatory because
the exactions were more frequent and at higher rates than in
former years. None of these regulations amounted to a contract between the government and the importer, and of course
they were at all times subject to modification, alteration, or repeal; but they show to a demonstration that it never was the
policy of Congress to allow the owner, importer, or consignee
to deposit imported goods in the public stores or warehouses
without the payment of duties for an indefinite period of time,
or for any great length of time, without requiring the depositor,
when he withdrew the same for consumption, to pay an additional duty for the privilege.
Four months, less three days, of the year allowed by the
prior act remained in which the goods might be withdrawn foi
consumption on payment of the liquidated duties and charges,
without being subjected to any additional exaction, which gave
full scope and opportunity for the corresponding privilege conferred by the twenty-sixth section of the subsequent act. 14 id
8; 16 id. 269.
Examined, as the question should be, in the light of these
suggestions and the antecedent legislation of Congress, it is
clear that the new law supposed to be applicable to the case is
not repugnant to the prior law, and that there is no error in
the record.
Jtudgment affirmed.

