Oct. 1877.]

COCHRANE v. DEENER.

COCHIANE v. DEE-LTER.
The court declines to vacate its decree rendered at the last term in Cochrane v.
Dpener, 94 U. S. 780, but holds that third parties, whose interests are opposed
to the Cochrane patents which were in controversy in that suit, should not be
concluded from having a further hearing upon them whenever a future case
may be presented here for consideration.

to set aside the decree rendered at the last term in
Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, and to dismiss the appeal.
MOTION

Mr. George Harding in support of the motion.
Mr. .11latt. H. Carpenter, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
After a careful examination of the evidence adduced on the
motion to vacate the decree in this case, we see no ground to
believe that the appellants are chargeable with any collusion
with the appellees in reference to the argument of the appeal.
On the contrary, the weight of the evidence is, that they repelled any arrangement or proposition which might look to
that end. 'Whilst we would not hesitate to set aside a decree
collusively obtained, the proof ought to be very clear to induce us to do this at the instance of strangers to the suit,
though incidentally affected by the decision of the questions
involved.
At the same time, as the decision in this case is made the basis
of applications for injunctions against third parties in the Circuit
Court, it is right that we should say, that, in the argument of
the appeal before us, the case on the part of the appellees was,
as it seemed to us, very imperfectly presented; and the evidence laid before us on this motion demonstrates the fact that
the appellees, in consequence of the conditional arrangement
with the appellants, which they secured before the argument
was had, or for some other cause, omitted to prosecute their
defence with that degree of zeal and efficiency which the im
portance of the case would otherwise have demanded. The
result was, that the labor of the court, and its liability to overlook points of weight and importance, were greatly increased.
As the case was presented to us, we see no cause for changing
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

ALVORD V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. oth

our views. But, under the circumstances, we think that third
parties, who had no opportunity of being heard, and whose
interests as opposed to the Cochrane patents are very important, should not be concluded from having a further hearing
upon them whenever a future case may be presented for our
consideration.
Motion denied.

ALVORD v. URITED STATES.
1. The presentation of a claim for compensation for carrying the mails, to the
Second Assistant Postmaster-General, with whom all the business in relation
to the claim had been previously transacted, is, in contemplation of law, the
presentation of it to the Postmaster-General.
2. The facts in this case considered, and held to entitle the claimant to $35,100

for his services, under contracts with the Post-Office Department, for carrying the mails.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

APPEAL

Mr. Thomas Wilson and Mr. Jeremiah ff. Wilson for the
appellant.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MIR. JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the findings of the Court of Claims, from whose
judgment this case is appealed, that, by five different written
contracts made in 1858, appellant agreed with the PostmasterGeneral to carry the mail over as many different routes between
Iowa City, in the State of Iowa, and Fort Kearney, in Nebraska. On the 25th of July, 1861, it was agreed between him
and the Postmaster-General, that, for an improved service on
part of this route, namely, between Omaha on the Missouri
River, and Fort Kearney, plaintiff should receive $14,000 pei
annum additional, from its commencement on the 5th of August,
1861. The second and third of the series of facts found by
the court we give verbatim, as follows: "2. On the 16th of September, 1861, in consequence of the route
established by Congress for the through California mail having been
broken by the burning of 1.ridges, the Postmaster-General ordered

