Oct. 1877.]

BURDETTE

v.

BARTLETT.

the 3 appellants were parties one court of equity has found that
this trustee has fully executed his trust, and that the fund is
exhausted. That decree is a bar to any further proceeding in
equity by them, as creditors of the bank before judgment,
for the purpose of securing the administration of the same
trust. If there are assets which the trustee did not reach, the
appellants are remitted to their remedies, after judgment against
the bank, to subject equitable assets to the payment of their
demands. We have seen, in the former opinion filed, that they
do not now occupy the position of judgment creditors.
The other questions presented by the petition for rehearing
have already been sufficiently considered. A liability by statute is as much the subject of remedial legislation as a liability
by contract, unless the remedy enters into and forms part of
the obligation which the statute creates. Such, we think, is not
the case here.
Petition overruled.
NOTE. - In Terry v. Coskery, error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Georgia, which was argued at the same time as was
the preceding case by Ir. Harvey Terry and 31r. William Stone for the plaintiff
in error, and by 31r. W. H. Hull for the defendant in error, MR.CHIEF JUSTICE
WAITE, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked: "There is nothing to
distinguish this case in principle from that of Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S. 156, and
that of Terry v. Anderson, supra, p. 628."
Judgment affirmed.

BURDETTE v. BARTLETT.
Under sect. 827 of the Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the Dis.
trict of Columbia, persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to promissory notes, may all or any of them, at the
option of the plaintiff, be included in the same action.

ERORto to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action brought by Bartlett, Robbins, & Co.
against Howard, Peugh, Lacey, and Ross, as makers, and Helmick and Burdette, as indorsers, of a certain joint and several
promissory note for .$1,993, dated July 16, 1873, and payable
to the order of said Helmick. The note was duly protested for
non-payment, and the indorsers served with notice. The defendants, with the exception of Ross and Helmick, were served

638 "

BURDETTE v. BARTLETT.

[Sup. Ot.

with process; but the action was subsequently dismissed as to
all of them but Burdette. Judgment by default was rendered
against him, which the general term, upon appeal, affirmed.
Burdette then sued out this writ, and here assigns for error:
1. The court below erred in giving judgment for plaintiffs,
because there was a misjoinder of parties defendants. 2. Because the makers and indorsers of a promissory note cannot be
joined as defendants in the same action.
1t. William F. 11fattingly, for the plaintiff in error.
Sect. 827 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of
Columbia unquestionably does not, in express terms, authorize
the joinder of makers and indorsers of a promissory note as defendants. Where such is the intent of the legislature, it has
been expressed in plain and unambiguous terms, as in Mississippi. Zeary v. Farmers' & Merchants' Bank of Memylds,
16 Pet. 89.
That section was, by its terms, evidently intended to modify
the common-law rule, that, in a case of a joint and several contract, all the parties must be sued in one action, or a separate
action be brought against each, and to allow a plaintiff to unite,
at his pleasure, two or more of the parties in one action.
The contract of a maker and that of an indorser of a prom.
issory note are wholly distinct and different. The maker
promises to pay absolutely, while the undertaking of the indorser is merely conditional; and, unless a statute in plain
terms authorizes the parties to two such independent contracts
to be joined in one action, no such construction should be given
to it.
Mr. Andrew C. Bradley, contra.
The joinder of the makers and indorsers of a promissory note,
or of part of them, as defendants in "one action," is expressly
authorized by the statute; and such, since its enactment, has
been the judicial construction uniformly given to it. No
clause excludes from its provisions the parties severally liable
upon promissory notes, whether as makers or as indorsers.
The statute is a remedial one, and should be liberally construed.
Atcheson v. Everitt, Cowp. 881; BEyston v. Studd, 2 Plowd.
465; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 267; 1 Bl. Com. 87; Dwar
ris on Statutes, 231.

Oct. 1877.]

BURDETTE v. BARTLETT.

What is implied in a statute is as much a part of it as what
is expressed. Gelpeoe v. City1 of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 221; Dubois
v. Hepburn, 10 Pet. 1; Hoguet v. Wallace, 4 Dutch. (N. J.)
524; Cullerton v. Jl1ead, 22 Cal. 95; Jackson v. Warren, 32 Ill.
,31; Pearson v. Lovejoy, 53 Barb. (N. Y.) 407; People v.
Tibbets, 4 Cow. (N. Y.) 384; Holmes v. Carley, 31 N. Y. 289;
ifudler v. Golden, 36 id. 446; Adm'x of Trae v. Adm'r o]
Card, 2 Ohio St. N. s. 431; Staniels et al. v. Raymnond &
Trustee, 4 Cush. (Mass.) 314; Gibson v. Jenne1 , 15 Mass.
205; State v. Jones et al., 8 Md. 88; Converse v. Burrows,
2 Minn. 229.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
By sect. 827 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
relating to the District of Columbia, it is enacted as follows,
viz.: "Where money is payable by two or more persons jointly or
severally, as by joint obligors, covenantors, makers, drawers, or indorsers, one action may be sustained and judgment recovered
against all or any of the parties by whom the money is payable, at
the option of the plaintiff. But an action against one or some of
the parties by whom the money is payable may, while the litigation
therein continues, be pleaded in bar of another action against an
other or others of the said parties." 14 Stat. 405, ยง 20.
This is a portion of an act of Congress entitled "An Act to
amend the law of the District of Columbia in relation to judicial proceedings therein." In the case before us, an action was
commenced and the process served upon two of the several
makers of a promissory note and one of the indorsers thereof,
there being other makers and other indorsers of the note.
The statute is not happily expressed, whatever may have
been the intention of its framers. It is contended, on the one
hand, that it was designed merely to modify the common-law
rule, that, in case of a joint and several contract, all the parties
must be sued in one action, or a separate action be brought
against each, and to allow the plaintiff to sue one or more of
the parties in one action, and to omit a portion of them, at his
pleasure.

BURDETTE v. BARTLETT.

[Sup. ot.

It is insisted, on the other hand, that it is an enactment in
the spirit of the provisions of numerous State statutes, permitting the holder of a note to join the makers and indorsers,
at his discretion, in the same action. The latter, we are told in
the brief, has been the uniform construction of the statute by
the courts of the District since its passage, more than ten years
since, and we are of the opinion that it is a sound construction.
The words, "as by joint obligors, covenantors, makers, drawers,
or indorsers," are inserted by way of illustration, and, like many
other intended illuminations, serve but to darken the subject.
Omitting these words (as parenthetical), the statute provides
that one action may be sustained against all or any of the parties by whom payable, where money is payable by two or more
persons jointly or severally.
In the present case, there is a sum of $1,993 payable upon an
instrument in writing. It is payable by Howard, one of the
makers of the note. It is payable also by Burdette, one of the
indorsers of the note, and it is the same sum of $1,993 that is
payable by each of them. A collection of the money by the
holder from one of the parties would be a bar to further proceedings by him against the others. So an action simply
against Howard alone would, in our opinion, give Burdette the
benefit of the latter clause of the statute; to wit, that an action
against one of the parties, while it continued, might be pleaded
in bar of another action against him, as another party to the
contract. So far as the present question is concerned, the act
of Congress was intended to produce the effect of the statutes
of several of the States; to wit, " Persons severally liable upon
the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills
of exchange or promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff."
2 Edm. Stat. of N. Y., p. 82.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia was right, and is
Affirmed.

