UNITED STATES

v. Fox.

UNITED STATES v.

[Sup. Ct.

Fox.

1 An act which is not an offence at the time it is committed cannot become such
by any subsequent independent act of the party with which it has no connection. Accordingly, that part of sect. 5132,Rev. Stat., which declares that
every personrespecting whom proceedings in bankruptcy are commenced,
either upon his own petition or that of a creditor, who, within three months
before their commencement, obtains goods upon false pretences with intent
to defraud shall be punished by imprisonment, is inoperative to render the
act an offence, because its criminal character is to be determined by subsequent proceedings, which, at the time the goods were so obtained, may not
have been in his contemplation, and may be instituted, against his will, by
another.
2. It is competent for Congress to enforce, by suitable penalties, all legislation
necessary or proper to the execution of powers with which it is intrusted;
and any act committed with a view of evading such legislation, or fraudulently securing its benefits, may be made an offence against the United
States. But it is otherwise, when an act committed in a State has no relation to the execution of a power of Congress, or to any matter within the
jurisdiction of the United States.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
In November, 1874, the defendant filed a petition in bank-

ruptcy in the District Court for the Southern District of New
York. In March, 1876, he was indicted in the Circuit Court
for that district for alleged offences against the United States,
and, among others, for the offence described in the ninth sub-

division of sect. 5132 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that "every person respecting whom proceedings in
bankruptcy are commenced, either upon his own petition or
that of a creditor," who, within three months before their

commencement, "under the false color and pretence of carrying on business, and dealing in the ordinary course of trdde,
obtains on credit from any person any goods or chattels with
intent to defraud," shall be punished by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding three years.

The indictment, among other things, charged the defendant
with having, within three months previous to the commencement
of his proceedings in bankruptcy, purchased and obtained on
credit goods from several merchants in the city of New York,
upon the pretence and representation of carrying on business

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V.

Fox.

and dealing in the ordinary course of trade as a manufacturer
of clothing; whereas he was not carrying on business in the
ordinary course of trade as such manufacturer, but was selling
goods to some parties by the piece for cost, and to other parties
at auction for less than cost, and that these pretences and representations were made to defraud the parties from whom the
goods were purchased.
The defendant was convicted; and, upon a motion in arrest of
judgment, the judges holding the Circuit Court were opposed
in opinion, and have certified to this court the question upon
which they differed. That question is thus stated in the
certificate :"If a person shall engage in a transaction which, at the time of
its occuiTence, is not a violation of any law of the United States,
to wit, the obtaining goods upon credit by false pretences, and if,
subsequently thereto, proceedings in bankruptcy shall be commenced respecting him, is it within the constitutional limits of
congressional legislation to subject him to punishment for such
transaction considered in connection with the proceedings in
bankruptcy ?"
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. B. T. Tracy, contra.

M . JusTIon FITFD delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by the certificate of division does
not appear to us difficult of solution. Upon principle, an act
which is not an offence at the time it is committed cannot
become such by any subsequent independent act of the party
with which it has no connection. By the clause in question,
the obtaining of goods on credit upon false pretences is made
an offence against the United States, upon the happening of a
subsequent event, not perhaps in the contemplation of the
party, and which may be brought about, against his will, by the
agency of another. The criminal intent essential to the commission of a public offence must exist when the act complained
of is done: it cannot be imputed to a party from a subsequent
independent transaction. There are cases, it is true, where a
series of acts are necessary to constitute an offence, one act
being auxiliary to another in carrying out the criminal design.

UNITED STATES V. Fox.

[Sup. ot.

But the present is not a case of that kind. Here an act which
may have no relation to proceedings in bankruptcy becomes
criminal, according as such proceedings may or may not be subsequently taken, either by the party or by another.
There is no doubt of the competency of Congress to provide,
by suitable penalties, for the enforcement of all legislation necessary or proper to the execution of powers with which it is
intrusted. And as it is authorized "to establish uniform laws
on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States,"
it may embrace within its legislation whatever may be deemed
important to a complete and effective bankrupt system. The
object of such a system is to secure a ratable distribution of
the bankrupt's estate among his creditors, when he is unable to
discharge his obligations in full, and at the same time to relieve the honest debtor from legal proceedings for his debts,
upon a surrender of his property. The distribution of the
property is the principal object to be attained. The discharge
of the debtor is merely incidental, and is granted only where
his conduct has been free from fraud in the creation of his
indebtedness or the disposition of his property. To legislate
for the prevention of frauds in either of these particulars,
when committed in contemplation of bankruptcy, would seem
to be within the competency of Congress. Any act committed
with a view of evading the legislation of Congress passed in
the execution of any of its powers, or of fraudulently securing
the benefit of such legislation, may properly be made an offence
against the United States. But an act committed within a
State, whether for a good or a bad purpose, or whether with
an honest or a criminal intent, cannot be made an offence
against the United States, unless it have some relation to the
execution of a power of Congress, or to some matter within
the jurisdiction of the United States. An act not having any
such relation is one in respect to which the State can alone
legislate. •
The act described in the ninth subdivision of sect. 5132
of the Revised Statutes is one which concerns only the State
in which it is committed: it does not concern the United
States. It is quite possible that the framers of the statute
intended it to apply only to acts committed in contemplation

Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

of bankruptcy; but it does not say so, and we cannot supply
qualifications which the legislature has failed to express.
Our answer to the question certified must be in the negative;
and it will be so returned to the Circuit Court.

NATIoSAI

BANS v. INsuRANCE CoPA-y.

1. When a party states, in his application for an insurance, that he has made
a just, full, and true exposition of all material facts and circumstances in
regard to the condition, situation, value, and risk of the property, so far as
known to him, and the application is expressly made a part of the policy,
should it afterwards appear that he overestimated the value of the property, the policy would not be vitiated, unless it be shown that the estimate
was intentionally excessive.
2. When a policy contains contradictory provisions, or is so framed as to render
it doubtful whether the parties intended that the exact truth of the applicant's statements should be a condition precedent to any binding contract,
that construction which imposes upon the assured the obligations of a warranty should not be favored.
S. The policy having been prepared by the insurers, it should be construed most
strongly against them.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an action on a policy of insurance issued by the
Hartford Fire Insurance Company to W. D. Oldham, on certain mill property, building, and machinery, and by him transferred and assigned to the First National Bank of Kansas
City, Mo. The parties, by written stipulation, waived a jury;
and, upon a special finding of facts, the Circuit Court gave
judgment for the company. The bank thereupon sued out this
writ of error.
It appears from the special finding, that, by the terms of the
application, the assured was required to state separately "the
estimated value of personal property and of each building to be
insured, and the sum to be insured on each'; . . . the value of
the property being estimated by the applicant." The applicant
was also directed to answer certain questions, and sign the same
"as a description of the premises on which the insurance will
be predicated." Among the questions to be answered were:
voL. Y.

43

