Oct. 1877.]

BRIGES

V. SPERRY.

Our conclusion is, that the present decree must be reversed
with costs, and that the cause be remanded to the court below,
with directions to allow the complainants to amend their bill
as they shall be advised, and with liberty to the defendants to
answer any new matter introduced therein; and that all the
proofs in the cause shall stand as proofs upon any future hearing thereof, with liberty to either party to take additional proofs
upon any new matter that may be put in issue by the amended
So ordered.
pleadings; and it is

BiPIGEs v. SPEruY.
1. Where the record shows that a suit brought in a State court was, on the petttion of the defendant, and by reason of the character of the parties, duly
removed to the proper Circuit Court of the United States, the jurisdiction
of the latter court is not lost for want of an averment of citizenship in the
bill of complaint originally filed, or in the amendments thereto, which were
made in the Circuit Court.
2. The bill in this case prayed for a dissolution of the partnership between the
parties, and a sale of certain lands by them held as tenants in common,
which, it was alleged, were not susceptible of division without prejudice to
them. There was no demurrer to the bill, nor did the answer raise any
objection to the jurisdiction. Held, 1. That, as the allegations of the bill
touching the lands conform to the provision of the Code of California,
and are sustained by the proofs, the decree below awarding partition was
proper. 2. That, if there is any thing in the allegations which concern the
partnership, which introduces another matter, the objection should have
been taken by demurrer for multifariousness.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This action was commenced by the complainant, who is a
citizen of California, in the District Court of the Fifth Judicial
District- for the county of San Joaquin in that State; but, upon
the petition of the defendants, who are citizens of France, the
cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of California. After such removal, the complainant filed an amended bill, wherein he charged that,
about July, 1874, he and the defendants entered into a copartnership for carrying on a hotel business on the land known as
the Calaveras Big Trees, which consisted of two tricts, one
VOL. V.

26

BRIGES v. SPERRY.

[Sup, Ct.

containing about eight hundred, and the other about seven
hundred and twenty acres; that the hotel was on one of the
tracts; that at the time of the formation of the partnership,
and during its continuance, he and the defendants owned the
land as tenants in common, he having one undivided half, one of
the defendants three-eighths, and the other one-eighth thereof;
that it was agreed to use, as capital stock in said business, said
land, hotel, &c.; that he was to have the sole and exclusive
management of the business; that he performed his agreement,
but that the defendants so conducted themselves in and about
the management of the business as to cause great loss to him,
and lessen the value of said land and hotel. He further alleged
that the situation of the land and its connection with the hotel
were such that it could not be divided without great prejudice to
the owners.
The bill did not allege that the partnership was for any
specified time, or that there were debts, profits, or claims to
adjust or accounts to settle. It prayed for the appointment of
a receiver, the dissolution of the partnership, the winding-up
of its affairs, and a sale of the property.
The answer admitted the partnership, and the ownership
of the land as charged, but denied that the complainant was to
have exclusive management of the business; and that he performed his agreement. It also denied that they in any way
misconducted themselves, and that the land could not be
divided without prejudice.
The land in question is that upon which grow the mammoth
trees of California. It consists of two different tracts, about
six miles apart. One, called the "Calaveras Big Tree Grove,"
is also known as the "Mammoth Grove," and the other as the
"South Park Grove." The hotel is on the former tract; and
the neighborhood is resorted to for the purpose of seeing the
trees, and enjoying the climate and the hunting and fishing.
The evidence chiefly related to the situation and character
of the property and the purposes for which it could be used, and
to the question as to whether the place would support two
hotels.
Upon the hearing, the court decreed the dissolution of the
partnership, the sale of the property, and the division of

Oct. 1877.]

BRIGES V. SPERRY.

the proceeds between the parties, in proportion to their respective interests.
The defendants thereupon appealed to this court, and assign
for error,1. That the bill shows no equity, and should be dismissed.
2. That the sale of the real property should not have been
ordered, because it was not partnership property, and, as there
were no debts to pay or claims to adjust, no useful purpose
could be subserved by a sale.
3. That the amended bill filed in the Circuit Court did not
show jurisdiction in that court.
Mr. .Edward J. Pringle and 2r..Edmond L. aoold for the
appellants.
Mr. Milton Andros, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, Sperry, brought suit in the State court for the
county of San Joaquin against the appellants, who duly appeared and caused the suit to be removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of California. In that
court Sperry filed an amended or new complaint.
One of the errors alleged as grounds for reversing the decree
in favor of Sperry is, that this amended bill shows no jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. If nothing else be looked at but the
bill, there is no jurisdiction shown. But the proceedings in
the State court, which are properly here as part of the record
of the case, show that it was removed from the State court to
the Federal court, on account of the citizenship of the parties;
and this of itself must have given jurisdiction to the United
States Court before the amended bill was filed. That jurisdiction is not lost, because the facts on which it arose are not
set out in the old or the new complaint. Railway Company v.
Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322.
The appellants treat the bill as one for a dissolution of a
partnership, a settlement of the partnership affairs, a sale of
the partnership property, and a distribution of its proceeds.
They, therefore, insist that the decree of the court ordering a
sale of real estate of the estimated value of $40,000, which
the parties held as tenants in common, and which, they insist,

BRIGES v. SPERRY.

[%uP. Ct.

was not partnership property, was erroneous, and should be
reversed. Oil the other side, it is said that the real estate was
partnership property, and by the rules of chancery practice
ought to be sold on a decree for the dissolution of the partnership, and the proceeds divided, as in case of personalty; and it
is argued further, that, if they are mistaken in this view of the
matter, the complaint may be treated as a bill for partition;
and that as a partition in specie could not be made without loss
or injury to the value of the property, it was rightfully decreed
to be sold and the money divided.
As we are clearly of opinion that the decree of the Circuit
Court can be sustained on this latter view, we need not inquire
whether, under all the circumstances, the real estate was subject to the rules which in equity govern that kind of property
when it is bought and used for partnership purposes.
Supposing a bill to wind up a partnership and a bill to partition real estate to be so distinct in character that a court must
hold it to be one or the other, we think the complaint before
us has all the necessary elements of the latter, and is as much
entitled to be called a suit for partition as for the dissolution
and winding up of a partnership.
It begins by describing the real estate, and declaring that
plaintiff and defendants are now, and have been, tenants in
common of the lands since the month of July, 1874. It then
alleges the plaintiff to be the owner of an undivided half, the
defendant, the Marquis de Briges, of three-eighths, and the
Marquise de Briges, the other defendant, who, it seems, is his
mother, of one-eighth. It shows that the land consists of two
separate parcels, which, by the congressional subdivisions of
which they consist, must be five or six miles apart, and that one
of them is a large tract, used as a summer resort for visitors,
and that the whole property is of the value of about $40,000.
It is also alleged, that, by reason of the connection of the hotel
with the lands, -the latter constituting the Big Tree Groves of
Calaveras, - a partition cannot be had without seriously impairing the value of the property. Amongst other relief prayed
for is a sale of this property, and a distribution of the proceeds
amongst the owners. Here seems to be every thing requisite
for a suit in partition.

Oct. 1877.]

BRIGES V. SPERRY.

There is, however, in addition to this, an allegation that the
parties had been engaged in keeping this hotel in partnership,
and that a difference had arisen by the fault of the defendants,
which made a dissolution of that partnership necessary, and
this dissolution is prayed for, and a settlement of the accounts;
and another prayer of the bill is for a sale of the partnership
property, and proper distribution.
The bill is inartificially drawn as a bill in chancery, but is
after the model of the Code of Procedure of California, which
justifies such a complaint in the courts of that State.
The stating part of it is accordingly divided into seven par
agraphs, and they are so numbered. If we are at liberty to
disregard the fifth and sixth paragraphs, which alone set out
the partnership and the grounds of dissolution, we have no
difficulty in finding a bill for partition, with prayer for a sale
as a mode of partition, because it would be an injury to the
interest of the owners to divide it up.
As there was no demurrer to the bill, as the answer sets up
no objection to the jurisdiction, but denies that there is any
thing in the condition of the land to forbid actual partition, we
see no reason why the bill may not be treated as sufficient for a
partition suit. If there is any thing in the allegations which
concern the partnership, which introduces another matter, the
objection should have been taken by demurrer for multifariousness. It is not fatal to the bill on appeal.
The only question contested in the case on the evidence was,
whether the land could be partitioned in kind without serious
detriment to the owners.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court held properly that it
could not.
It consisted of about two thousand acres in two distinct parcels, of unequal value, five or six miles apart. These two
parcels included all the now well-known big trees of Calaveras,
except a few of that species too small to excite admiration or
attract attention.
These trees are ranked among the curiosities of the world,
and justly so. One of them, as the evidence shows, was twentyfive feet'in diameter when it was cut down, and took five men
twenty-two days to cut it down. Others still standing are thirty

BRIGES V'. SPERRY.

[Sup. Gt.

feet in diameter. The place is visited by people from all parts
of the world to see these trees, and the hotel did a profitable
business for this reason. It is apparent that the joint ownership of this property must make it far more valuable than it
would be if split up into small pieces held by persons who
would become rivals for the profits arising from visitors. Such,
also, is the weight of the testimony on that subject. It is
argued that the two groves, being five miles apart, a division
with owelty to make it equal might have been made into two
parts. But these would still have been rival and conflicting
interests, each injuring the other.
Again, the inequality of the shares into which the property
must have been divided was a serious difficulty in the way of
actual partition. The three shares must have been an eighth,
three-eighths, and a half. And though this might have been
overcome by an offer of the mother and son to take their two
shares as one, no such offer was made, and the court had no
power to compel them to do so.
The owner of the one-eighth, if it had a pleasant site for a
hotel, would have been as well off, in regard to the most valuable use of the property, as the owner of the one-half, unless
the latter had adopted means for excluding the guests of the
former, which is, at least, of doubtful practicability, unless at
enormous expense.
Sect. 763 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, c. 4,
tit. 10, concerning partition of real property, enacts: "If it be
alleged in the complaint and established by evidence, or if it
appear by the evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that partition cannot be
made without great prejudice to the owners, the court may
order a sale thereof." Sect. 752 embodies the same principle.
The complainant in this case makes the necessary allegation, and we think it is sustained by the proof.
Decree affirmed.

