754

INSURANCE

Co. v. BRAME.

[Sup. Ct.

INSURANCE ComPANY v. BRAiE.
1. A. killed B., upon whose life there was a policy of insurance in favor of a
third party. The company paid the insurance, and sued A. for the damages it had sustained by his act. Held, that the action does not lie at

common law, or under the Civil Code of Louisiana, where the homicide was
committed.
2. That code gives a right of action against the wrong-doer to certain relatives
of the deceased, for injuries to the person.resulting in death. At common
law, an action for such injuries abates.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
This is an action by the Mobile Life Insurance Company
against Brame, to recover the sum of $7,000.
The plaintiff alleged that it insured the life of one Craven
McLemore, a citizen of Louisiana, for that amount in favor of
third parties; that on the 24th of October, 1875, while its
policies were in force, Brame did, in the town of Delhi, in
Louisiana, wilfully shoot said McLemore, and inflict upon him
a mortal wound, from the effects of which he died on the
twenty-sixth day of that month; that the shooting was an
illegal and tortious act on the part of Brame, and caused damage to the plaintiff in the amount of the policies on the life of
the deceased, which amount the plaintiff acknowledges to be
due, and a part of which has been paid.
An exception of the defendant to the plaintiff's petition was
sustained, and judgment rendered in his favor. The company
then brought the case here.
The Revised Civil Code of Louisiana contains the following
articles :"cAT.2314. Every act whatever of man that causes damage to
another, obliges him by whose fault it happened to repair it; the
right of this action shall survive, in case of death, in favor of the
minor children and widow of the deceased, or either of them, and
in default of these, in favor of the surviving father or mother, or
either of them, for the space of one year from the death."
"ART. 2316. Every person is responsible for the damage he
occasions, not merely by his act, but by his negligence, his imprudence, or his want of skill."

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BRAME.

"AR T. 2324. He who causes another person to do an unlawful act, or assists or encourages in the commission of it, is answerable in solido with that person for the damage caused by such
act."

[1r. Charles B. Fenner for the plaintiff in error.
The authorities agree that a man is responsible for any

direct damage to another, resulting from his unlawful act.
I Cbitty on Plead., 125-180, 147; 1 Hilliard on Torts, 97;
Field on Damages, sect. 599; Scott v. Shepherd, 2 Black., W.
892; Reynolds v. Clarke, Stra. 635; Salsbury v. Hershinroder,
106 Mass. 458; Smith v. Rutherford, 2 Serg. & R. (Pa.)
358; lott v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 8 Bosw. (N. Y.)
345; and particularly Ricker v. Freeman, 50 N. H. 420.
For the purposes of this case, it stands admitted that the
act of defendant was unlawful; and it would be difficult to
conceive of a more direct consequence than the damage done
to the plaintiff. The damage is not only direct, but it is also
a certain pecuniary loss, thoroughly appreciable in dollars and
cents, according to scientific life-tables, which have been frequently recognized by the courts as proper standards in estimating such damage. Field on Damages, sect. 632; Rowley
v. London Railroad Co., 8 Law Rep. Ex. 221; David v. Southwestern Railroad Co., 41 Ga. 223; Donaldson v. Mississippi
Railroad Co., 18 Iowa, 280; Blake v. Midland Company,
18 Q. B. 93.
Hubgh v. -Yew Orleans & Carrollton Railroad Co., 6 La.
Ann. 495, and Hermann v. Carrollton Railroad Co., 11 id. 5,
are confined to actions for damages by relations of the deceased, and neither by their terms nor reasons extend to this
action.

The amendment to art. 2294, now 2314, of the Civil Code
of Louisiana does not affect the case, because it only applies
to the right of action of the injured party for the damage done
to him, and provides that the right, in case of his death, shall
survive in favor of certain relatives.
Connecticut M-utual Life ITnsurance Co. v. New York & New
Hlaven Railroad Co., 25 Conn. 265, relied upon by the other
side, is entitled to no greater weight as authority than results
from the mere force of its reasoning. The present case is

INSURANCE Co. v. BRA[u.E.

[Sup. Ct.

governed by the law of Louisiana, which differs from the common law and from that of Connecticut.
A contract of life insurance is similar to a valued policy of
fire or marine insurance. The insurer who has paid the loss
has in either case the right to recover from the tortious destroyer of the thing insured.
Under the law of Louisiana, which does not differ from the
French law in this particular, the right of action of the plaintiff results directly to him without the intervention of any
doctrine of subrogation.
Arts. 2314, 2316, and 2324 of the Revised Civil Code of
Louisiana fully sanction this action, unless excluded by some
authoritative interpretation of them. There has been no such
interpretation by the courts of Louisiana which applies either
in terms or reasons to this case.
Mr. 7ohn . Kennard, contra.
It is the general rule that a party is not liable civiliter for
taking human life, or for any damages resulting therefrom.
Connecticut AIutual Life Insurance Co. v. New York J New
Haven "Railroad Co., 25 Conn. 265. The exceptions to this
rule under the Civil Code of Louisiana have no relation to
any other parties than the relatives of the deceased.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The argument of the insurance company is that the killing
of the deceased was an injury to or violation of a legal right
or interest of the company; that, as a consequence thereof, it
sustained a loss, which is the proximate effect of the injury.
The answer of the defendant is founded upon the theory
that the loss is the remote and indirect result merely of the
act charged, that at the common law no civil action lies for an
injury which results in the death of the party injured, and that
the statutes of Louisiana upon that subject do not include the
present case.
The authorities are so numerous and so uniform to the
proposition, that by the common law no civil action lies for an
injury which results in death, that it is impossible to speak of
it as a proposition open to question. It has been decided in
many cases in the English courts and in many of the State
MR. JUSTICE HUNT

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BRAME.

courts, and no deliberate, well-considered decision to the contrary is to be found. In Hilliard on Torts, p. 87, sect. 10, the
rule is thus laid down: "Upon a similar ground it has been
held that at common law the death of a human being, though
clearly involving pecuniary loss, is not the ground of an action
for damages." The most of the cases upon the subject are
there referred to. Baker v. Bolton et al., 1 Camp. 493; Conneetieut Miutual Life Insurance Co. v. New York J Lew Haven
Railroad Co., 25 Conn. 265; Kramer v. 3arket Street Railroad
Co., 25 Cal. 434; Indianapolis, Pittsburg, &' Cleveland Railroad Co. v. Kealy, 23 Ind. 133; Hlyatt v. Adams, 16 Mich.
180; Shields v. Yonge, 15 Ga. 349; Peoria Marine J4 Tire
Insurance Co. v. Frost, 37 Ill. 333. The only cases that tend
to the contrary of this rule, so far as we know, are Cross
v. Guthery, 2 Root (Con.), 90, Plummer v. Webb, Ware, 69,
and Ford v. M1onroe, 20 Wend. (N. Y.) 210. They are considered by the New York Court of Appeals in Green v. The
Hudson River Railroad Co., 2 Keyes (N. Y.), 294, and compared with the many cases to the contrary, and are held not
to diminish the force of the rule as above stated. In that
case, the plaintiff alleged that, on the ninth day of January,
1856, his wife was a passenger on the defendants' road, and by
the gross carelessness and unskilfulness of the defendants a
collision occurred, by means of which his wife was killed,
" whereby he has lost and been deprived of all the comfort,
benefit, and assistance of his said wife in his domestic affairs,
which he might and otherwise would have had, to his damage,"
&c. A demurrer to this complaint, upon the ground that the
facts alleged constituted no cause of action, was sustained by
the New York Court of Appeals.
In Hubgh v. IN'ew Orleans & Carrollton Railroad Co., 6 La.
Ann. 495, the same principle was decided, and in the same
manner. In giving its opinion, the court say: "The exception of the defendants presents the question whether the death
of a human being can be the ground of an action for damNot being satisfied with this decision, Messrs. Ogden
ages."
& Duncan asked for a rehearing, the argument for which is
reported in the same volume, pp. 498-508. It was denied in
an elaborate opinion delivered by Chief Justice Eustis.

INSURANCE

Co. v.

BPA[E.

['Sup. Ct.

In Hermann v. Carrollton Riail'road Co., 11 id. 5, this principle was again affirmed in an opinion by Chief Justic6
Merrick.
It is only necessary to refer to one other case, involving the
same principle as those already cited, but in its facts more
closely resembling the case under consideration.
In Connecticut 3futual Life Insurance Co. v. New Yor, 6
lNew Haven Railroad Co., supra, the declaration alleged that
on the twentieth day of March, 1850, the plaintiffs had outstanding and in force a policy of insurance for $2,000 upon the
life of Samuel Beach; that Beach was on that day a passenger
on the defendants' road; that the defendants so carelessly,
negligently, and unskilfully conducted themselves that the
train on which Beach was riding was thrown down a bank into
the river; that Beach was greatly wounded and bruised, by
means whereof he then and there died, by reason of which the
plaintiffs were compelled to pay to his administrators the sum
of $2,000 upon the said policy.
The allegation of the present plaintiffs is that Brame tortiously and illegally took the life of McLemore by shooting
him. This is open to the inference that the act of Brame was
felonious. The case in Connecticut is based upon the allegation of negligence and carelessness, and is the more favorable
to a recovery, in that it avoids the suggestion existing in the
present case, that the civil injury is merged in the felony.
The Supreme Court of Connecticut held that the action could
not be sustained.
We have cited and given references to the important cases
on this question; they are substantially uniform against the
right of recovery.
Upon principle, we think, no other conclusion could be
reached than that stated. The relation between the insurance
company and McLemore, the deceased, was created by a contract between them, to which Brame was not a party. The
injury inflicted by him was upon McLemore, against his personal rights; that it happened to injure the plaintiff was an
incidental circumstance, a remote and indirect result, not necessarily or legitimately resulting from the act of killing. As in
Roeleingham Insurance Co. v. Xlfosher, 39 Me. 253, where an

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BRAME.

insurance company brought suit against one who had wilfully
fired a store upon which it had a policy of insurance, which it
was thereby compelled to pay, it was held that the loss was
remote and indirect, and that the action could not be sustained.
In Ashley et al. v. Dixon, 48 N. Y. 430, it was held that if A.
is under a contract to convey his land to B., and C. p',--uades
him not to do so, no action lies by B. against C. So a witness
is not liable for evidence given by him in a suit, although false,
by which another is injured. Grove v. Brandenburg, 7 Blackf.
(Ind.) 234; Dunlap v. aledden, 31 Me. 435. And in Anthony
v. Slaid, 11 Mete. (Mass.) 290, a contractor for the support
of town paupers had been subjected to extra expense in consequence of personal injury inflicted upon one of them; and he
brought the action against the assailant to recover for such
expenditure. The court held the damage to be remote and
indirect, and not sustained by means of any natural or legal
relation between the plaintiff and the party injured, but simply
by means of a special contract between the plaintiff and the
town. Some text-writers are referred to as holding a different
view, but we are not cited to any case in this country or Great
Britain where a different doctrine has been held.
By the common law, actions for injuries to the person abate
by death, and cannot be reviyed or maintained by the executor
or the heir. By the act of Parliament of Aug. 21, 1846, 9 &
10 Vict., an action in certain cases is given to the representatives of the deceased. This principle, in various forms
and with various limitations, has been incorporated into the
statutes of many of our States, and among others into that of
Louisiana. It is there given in favor of the minor children
and widow of the deceased, and, in default of these relatives, in
favor of the surviving father and mother. Acts of La., 1855,
pr. 223, p. 270. The case of a creditor, much less a remote
claimant like the plaintiff, is not within the statute.
In each of the briefs it is stated that the defendant was tried
for the homicide, and acquitted. In the view we take of the
case, the fact of a trial or its result is a circumstance quite
immaterial to the present question, however important it may
have been to the defendant.
Judgment affirmed.

