Oct. 1877.]

KNOTE V. UNITED STATES.

provided for, such duty was not intended to be altered by the
general words of the act of 1872. The ruling of the circuit
judge upon this principle was sound, and the judgment rendered in conformity therewith must be affirmed; and it i
"o ordered

KNOTE V. UXITED STATES.
1. The general pardon and amnesty granted by President Johnson, by proclamation, on the 25th of December, 1868, do not entitle one receiving their bene
fits to the proceeds of his property, previously condemned and sold under
the confiscation act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), after such proceeds
have been paid into the treasury of the United States.
2. Whilst a full pardon releases the offender from all disabilities imposed by the
offence pardoned, and restores to him all his civil rights, it does not affect
any rights which have vested in others directly by the execution of the
judgment for the offence, or which have been acquired by others whilst that
judgment was in force. And if the proceeds of the property of the offender
sold under the judgment have been paid into the treasury, the right to them
has so far become vested in the United States that they can only be recovered by him through an act of Congress. Moneys once in the treasury can
only be withdrawn by an appropriation by law.
3. To constitute an implied contract with the United States for the payment of
money upon which an action will lie in the Court of Claims, there must have
been some consideration moving to the United States, or they must have received the money charged with a duty to pay it over; or the claimant must
have had a lawful right to it when it was received, as in the case of money
paid by mistake. No such implied contract with the United States arises
with respect to moneys received into the treasury as the proceeds of property
forfeited and sold under that act.

from the Court of Claims.
The petition of the claimant alleged that he was the owner
of certain described personal property in West Virginia, which
was seized and libelled by the authorities of the United States
on the alleged ground of his treason and rebellion; that, by a
decree of the District Court for that district, the property was
condemned and forfeited to the United States, and sold; and
the net proceeds of the sale, amounting to the sum of $11,000,
were paid into the treasury of the United States, the proceedings for its condemnation and sale having been taken under
the t-onfiscation act of July 17, 1862; that subsequently, by
APPEAL

KNOTE V. UNITED

ST&TES.

[Sup. Ct.

virtue of the amnesty proclamation of the President, of Dec. 25,
1868, the claimant was pardoned and relieved of all disabilities
and penalties attaching to the offence of treason and rebellion,
for which his property was confiscated, and was restored to all
his rights, privileges, and immunities under the Constitution
and the laws made in pursuance thereof, and thus became entitled to receive the said proceeds of sale; but that the United
States, disregarding his rights in the premises, had. refused to
pay them over to him, and therefore he prayed judgment against
them. Upon demurrer for insufficiency of the facts thus alleged
to constitute a cause of action the petition was dismissed, and
hence the present appeal.
The proclamation of President Johnson relied upon is in the
following words "Whereas the President of the United States has heretofore set
forth several proclamations offering amnesty and pardon to persons who had been or were concerned in the late rebellion against
the lawful authority of the government, which proclamations were
severally issued on the eighth day of December, 1863, on the twentysixth day of March, 1864, on the twenty-ninth day of March, 1865,
on the seventh day of September, 1867, and on the fourth day of
July, in the present year.
"And whereas the authority of the Federal government having
been re-established in all the States and Territories within the
jurisdiction of the United States, it is believed that such prudential
reservations and exceptions, as at the dates of said several proclamations, were deemed necessary and proper, may now be wisely
and justly relinquished, and that a universal amnesty and pardon
for participation in said rebellion, extended to all who have borne
any part therein, will tend to secure permanent peace, order, and
prosperity throughout the land, and to renew and fully secure con
fidence and fraternal feeling among the whole people, and their
respect for and attachment to the national government designed
by its patriotic founders for the general good.
"Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President
of the United States, by virtue of the power and authority in me
vested by the Constitution, and in the name of the sovereign people
of the United States, do hereby proclaim and declare unconditionally, and without reservation, to all and to every person who directly
or indirectly participated in the late insurrection or rebellion, a full

Oct. 1871.]

KNOTE v. UNITED STATES.

pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the United
States, or of adhering to their enemies during the late civil war,
with restoration of all rights, privileges, and immunities under the
Constitution and the laws which have been made in pursuance
thereof." 15 Stat. 711.
Hr. Thomas Jesup Miller, and 31r. Linden Kent, for the
appellant.
As to offences against the United States, the pardoning power
f the President is unlimited, except in cases of impeachment.
Const. U. S., art. 2, sect. 2; Ez parte Wells, 18 How. 307;
Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333.
The pardon relied on here is in general terms, and its meaning and intent are clear beyond cavil. Even if it were ambiguous, it is to be construed most beneficially to the parties who
claim its benefits. 4 B1. Com. 401; Wywill's Case, 5 Co. 49;
United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128.
In England, a restoration of forfeited estates, if they have not
inured to the benefit of some third person, is inherently incident to a full and complete pardon. 3 Coke, Inst. 283; 4 Bl.
Com. 402; 1 Russell, Crimes, 175; 3 id. 621; Bac. Abr., tit.
Pardon; Cole's Case, Plow. 401; Brown v. Brashaw, 1 Bulst.
154; Toomb's Adm'r v. Bthrington, 1 Sand. 353; Ludlam v.
Lopez, 1 Stra. 529 ; Biggin's Case, 5 Co. 50 ; Burgessv. Wheat,
1 Eden, 201; Brown v. Waite, 2 Mod. 133.
The same rule prevails in this country. Such a pardon,
therefore, wipes out an offence and its consequentes. Cathcart
v. _obinson, 5 Pet. 264; United States v. Wilson, 7 id. 160;
Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307; Ex parte _lavel, 8 Watts & S.
(Pa.) 197; Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 880; Perkins v. Stevens,
24 Pick. (Mass.) 280; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766;
United States v. Padelford,9 id. 531; United States v. Klein,
13 id. 128; Armstrong v. United States, id. 154; Pargoud v.
United States, id. 156; Carlisle v. United States, 16 id. 147;
Osborn v. United States, 91 U. S. 474; 2 Op. Att.-Gen. 329;
3 id. 317; 4 id. 458; 6 id. 488; 8 id. 281; 10 id. 452.
The proceeds of the sale of the claimant's property are held
by the government, and no third party is interested in them.
His right to them under the pardon imposes legal obligations
on the government, and may be judicially enforced. Brown v.

]NOTE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. G, ,

United States, 1 McCahon, 229 ; Osbornv. United States, supra
United States v. Klein, supra.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
1. At common law, a simple charter of pardon did not re
store forfeited property which had already vested in the crown
A special clause of restitution in the charter was required for
that purpose. Chitty on Prerogative, 102.
2. The clause of restitution in the present case being limited
to rights, &c., under the Constitution, does not include rights
of property. Slaughter-Hfouse Cases, 16 Wall. 86 ; United States
v. Oruikshank et al., 92 U. S. 542.
3. At all events, without authorization by Congress, the
President has no power, whether by a clause in a charter of
pardon or otherwise, to render to the claimant the moneys
derived from the sale of his property, under a decree of forfeiture, which have been paid into the treasury of the United
States.
Mr. JusticE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented for determination in this case is,
whether the general pardon and amnesty granted by President
Johnson, by proclamation, on the 25th of December, 1868, will
entitle one receiving their benefits to the proceeds of his property, previously condemned and sold under the confiscation act
of 1862, after such proceeds have been paid into the treasury.
The proclamation of the President extended unconditionally
and without reservation a fu11 pardon and amnesty for the
offence of treason against the United States, or of giving aid
and comfort to their enemies, to all persons who had directly
or indirectly participated in the rebellion, with a restoration
of all rights, privileges, and immunities under the Constitution
and the laws made in pursuance thereof. Some distinction
has been made, or attempted to be made, between pardon and
amnesty. It. is sometimes said that the latter operates as an
extinction of the offence of which it is the object, causing it
to be forgotten, so far as the public interests are concerned,
whilst the former only operates to remove the penalties of the
offence. This distinction is not, however, recognized in our
law. The Constitution does not use the word "amnesty; " and,

Oct. 1877.]

KNOTE V. UNITED STATES.

except that the term is generally employed where pardon is extended to whole classes or communities, instead of individuals,
the distinction between them is one rather of philological interest than of legal importance. At all events, nothing can be
gained in the consideration of the question before us by showing that there is any difference in their operation. All the
benefits which can result to the claimant from both pardon and
amnesty would equally have accrued to him if the term " pardon"
alone had been used in the proclamation of the President. In
Klein's case, this court said that pardon included amnesty.
13 Wall. 128.
The rights, privileges, and immunities under the Constitution
and laws which the proclamation restored to parties embraced
by its terms, are such as all citizens possess and enjoy. That
instrument does not declare that any subjects of property are
restored with reference to which such rights, privileges, and
immunities might be invoked; nor can its language be thus
construed without a manifest perversion of its sense.
The effect of a pardon upon the condition and rights of its
recipient have been the subject of frequent consideration by
this court; and principles have been settled which will solve
the question presented for our determination in the case at
bar. Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333; Armstrong's Foundry,
6 id. 766; United States v. Padeyford, 9 id. 531; United States
v. KMein, 13 id. 128; Armstrong v. United States, id. 155;
Pargoud v. United States, id. 156; Carlisle v. United States,
16 id. 147; Osborn v. United States, 91 U. S. 474. A pardon is an act of grace by which an offender is released
from the consequences of his offence, so far as such release
is practicable and within control of the pardoning power, or
of officers under its direction. It releases the offender from
all disabilities imposed by the offence, and restores to him all
his civil rights. In contemplation of law, it so far blots out
the offence, that afterwards it cannot be imputed to him to prevent the assertion of his legal rights. It gives to him a new
credit and capacity, and rehabilitates him to that extent in his
former position. But it does not make amends for the past.
It affords no relief for what has been suffered by the offender
in his person by imprisonment, forced labor, or otherwise; it

XNOTE V, UNITED STATES.

[Sup. c

does not give compensation for what has been done or suffered,
nor does it impose upon the government any obligation to give
it. The offence being established by judicial proceedings, that
which has been done or suffered while they were in force is
presumed to have been rightfully done and justly suffered, and
no satisfaction for it can be required. Neither does the pardon
affect any rights which have vested in others directly by the
execution of the judgment for the offence, or which have been
acquired by others whilst that judgment was in force. If, for
example, by the judgment a sale of the offender's property has
been had, the purchaser will hold the property notwithstanding
the subsequent pardon. And if the proceeds of the sale have
been paid to a party to whom the law has assigned them, they
cannot be subsequently reached and recovered by the offender.
The rights of the parties have become vested, and are as complete as if they were acquired in any other legal way. So,
also, if the proceeds have been paid into the treasury, the right
to them has so far become vested in the United States that they
can only be secured fo the former owner of the property through
an act of Congress. Moneys once in the treasury can only be
withdrawn by an appropriation by law. However large, therefore, may be the power of pardon possessed by the President,
and however extended may be its application, there is this limit
to it, as there is to all his powers, - it cannot touch moneys in
the treasury of the United States, except expressly authorized
by act of Congress. The Constitution places this restriction
upon the pardoning power.
Where, however, property condemned, or its proceeds, have
not thus vested, but remain under control of the Executive, or
of officers subject to his orders, or are in the custody of the
judicial tribunals, the property will be restored or its proceeds
delivered to the original owner, upon his full pardon. The
property and the proceeds are not considered as so absolutely
vesting in third parties or in the United States as to be unaffected by the pardon until they have passed out of the jurisdiction of the officer or tribunal. The proceeds have thus
passed when paid over to the individual entitled to them, in
the one case, or axe covered into the treasury, in the other.
The views here expressed have been applied in practice, it

Oct. 1877.]

KNOTE V. UNITED STATES.

is believed, by the executive departments of the government.
In 1856, the question was submitted by the Secietary of the
Treasury to the Attorney-General, whether, under a pardon
of the President remitting a forfeiture to the United States,
imposed by a judgment of a United States district court, the
proceeds of the forfeiture deposited by the marshal in one of
the public depositories to the credit of the United States, but
not brought into the treasury by a covering warrant, could be
refunded to the marshal, and through him to the party entitled,
in execution of the remission granted by the President; and
the Attorney-General replied, that the pardoning power was
completely vested in the President, and did not require in its
exercise any aid from Congress, nor could it be curtailed by
Congress, but that, if the money had actually passed into the
treasury, it could not be refunded without an act of Congress;
for the Constitution itself, in the provision that "no money
shall be drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law," opposed an insuperable obstacle to
such a proceeding, and that this provision was of equal efficiency
with the pardoning power, and operated as a restriction upon
it. But the Attorney-General held, and so advised the Secretary,
that, if the money had only gone into the hands of some officer
of the government, and the right of third parties had not attached, it might be refunded. 8 Op. Att.-Gen., p. 281. As an
instance where property acquired by a third party, whilst the
judgment against the offender is in force, cannot be affected
by a subsequent pardon, he cited the case of the disposition of
a convict's property during the time of his civil incapacity.
The pardon does not restore the property. And, as an instance
where a right, other than of property, acquired during the same
period, is also unaffected, he cited the case where, by the law
of the country, a conviction of felony operates to dissolve a
marriage, and the innocent party contracts new bonds of matrimony. The subsequent pardon does not dissolve the new bonds.
Matter of .Deming, 10 Johns. 232.
The same views were, to some extent, applied in the recent
case of Osborn v. United States, supra, where proceeds of
property, confiscated under the act of July 17, 1862, for the
alleged treason of the claimant, remaining in the registry, were

KNOTE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. t

ordered by the Circuit Court to be delivered to the claimant who
had been pardoned, Mr. Justice Miller, presiding in the Circuit
Court, holding that, until an order of distribution of the proceeds was made, or the proceeds were actually paid into the
hands of the party entitled, as informer, to receive them, or
into the treasury of the United States, they were within the
control of the court, and that no vested right to the proceeds
had accrued so as to prevent the pardon from restoring them
to the claimant, and impliedly holding, that, had they been thus
paid, either to the informer or into the treasury, the right to
them would have passed beyond the control of the court. On
appeal, this court affirmed the decision, observing, that it was
of the essence of a pardon that it relieved the offender from
the consequences of his offence; and as in that case the forfeiture
of his property was one of those consequences, it restored the
property to him, unless the rights of other parties had vested,
and the power of restoration was thus gone.
An attempt is made by counsel to give some expressions used
in the opinion of the court a wider meaning, so as to support
the claim here presented; but the language will not sustain
the conclusion sought. There was no consideration of the
effect of the pardon upon the proceeds of the forfeited property
when paid into the treasury, but only of its effect upon those
proceeds whilst under the control of the court in its registry.
Any language which seemingly admits of a broader interpretation must be restricted to the facts of the case. There was
no intention of expressing any opinion that a pardon could do
away with the constitutional requirement as to money in the
treasury; whilst there, it is the property of the United States.
There is another *view of this case, which must lead to an
affirmance of the judgment of the Court of Claims. The jurisdiction of that court is limited to claims founded upon a law
of Congress, or upon a regulation of an executive department,
or upon a contract, express or implied, with the government.
The claim here presented rests upon a supposed implied contract to pay'to the claimant the money received as the proceeds
of the forfeited property. To constitute such a contract, there
must have been someconsideration moving to the United States;
or they must have received the money, charged with a duty tc

Oct. 1877.]

:BROWN v. COUNTY OF BUENA VISTA.

pay it over; or the claimant must have had a lawful right to
it when it was received, as in the case of money paid by mistake. But here there was no consideration moving to the
United States; they were charged with no duty in respect to
the money; there was no legal claim by any one to it when
received into the treasury; and no law since has required it to
be paid to the claimant. There can be, therefore, no implied
contract in the case.
Judgment afflrmed.

BRowx v. Coun.

op BE' A VISTA.

1. A court of equity will not relieve against a judgment at law where the party
seeking its aid has been guilty of laches or fault.
2. Whether the time which has elapsed since the discovery of the fraud, set up
as the ground of relief, be sufficient to bar the remedy, is a question to be
determined by the sound discretion of the court.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George G. Wright for the appellant.
Mr. Galusha Parsons, eontra.
MR. JUSTICE Sw -Hi delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity. The appellee filed the bill.
The decree of the court below was against the appellant.
In this court, the grounds relied upon to sustain the decree
are, That the judgment sought to be enjoined was procured by
the fraud and conspiracy of the appellants, Jamison the county
clerk, and Moore the county treasurer;
That the judgment was founded in a large part upon warrants of the county, issued pursuant to a fraudulent conspiracy
of the same parties, and in part upon warrants which were
forged ;
And that the payments upon the judgment were procured
to be made by the fraudulent misrepresentations of Langdon
and Brown, through their attorney.

