Oct. 1877.]

OcO.Row V. WHITNEY.

est interest that the whiskey should be secure from fire until
the tax on it was paid, since its continued existence was his
best, if not his only, security against liability on the bonds.
It is to be observed that no other interest of Thompson &
Co. is in issue in this suit. They never held the whiskey on
commission, and the loss in regard to the proprietary interest
had been paid by the companies. This was another and a
different interest in the same property. A man might insure his
interest in property as an executor, and his interest as a legatee.
His removal from the office of executor by the proper court
might, within the terms of this policy, prevent his recovering
in that character; but if his interest in the property as legatee
was one-sixth, would the change of executorship bar his recovery as legatee? This would hardly be asserted by any one.
It is objected further to a recovery that plaintiffs have not
actually paid the judgment. The answer to this, if any were
necessary, is that by the law of Kentucky the replevin bond is
a satisfaction of the judgment. It is as to this obligor a debt
discharged. It is said that, in case of a loss like this, the government cannot collect the tax from the bondsmen. The answer is, that the government has sued and obtained judgment
for the tax; and defendants were asked to defend that suit, and
declined to do so.
Judgment affirmed.

MORROW

V.

WMriNEY.

1. When an act of Congress, confirming a claim to land, contains a proviso that
the confirmation shall not include any lands occupied by the United States
for military purposes, the fact of such occupancy can be established by
parol evidence, and is not necessarily a matter of record.
2. Where such occupancy does not exist, the act perfects the title of the confirmee,
if the tract has clearly defined boundaries or can be identified. The interest of the United States having been thereby vested in him, a patent subse.
quently issued to him is only documentary evidence of title.
S Langdeau v. Hancs, 21 Wall. 521. cited and approved.
4 In a description of premises, distances and quantities, when inconsistent with
metes and bounds, must yield to them.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
This is an action of ejectment brought in the Brown County

MORROW V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Gt.

Circuit Court, Wisconsin, by Whitney and Baker, for the possession of a tract of land, consisting of ninety-four acres and a
fraction of an acre, situated in the borough of Fort Howard, in
that county and State. On the trial, the plaintiffs deraigned
title to the premises from one Pierre Grignon, to whom a patent
of the United States was issued June 2, 1870. The defendant
M-lorrow set up an adverse possession of the premises in him.
lf, and parties through whom he derived his interest, for more
a forty years, under a claim of title founded upon a written
instrument as a conveyance of the premises. On the trial he
relied upon a legislative confirmation of a claim under the act
of Congress of Feb. 21, 1823, of one Alexis Gardapier, from
whom he traced his title.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, and, it having been affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, -Morrow
sued out this writ of error. The additional facts are stated in
the opinion of the court.
ir. Timothy 0. Howe for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tatt. Hf. Car'penter, contra.
Mn. JvsTic

FnuLD delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of Feb. 21, 1823, 3 Stat. 724, after reviving and continuing in force certain previous acts for the adjustment of land
claims in the Territory of Michigan, which then included Wisconsin, provided, in its fifth section, that every person who, on
the 1st of July, 1812, was a resident at Green Bay, or at other
place named, and had then occupied and cultivated a tract of
land within either of those settlements, or had occupied a tract
of land formerly cultivated by him, and had continued to submit to the authority of the United States, should be confirmed
in the tract thus occupied and cultivated. The section did not
in teims require the commissioners created under the previous
acts, and continued in authority with reference to other claims,
to report to Congress their action upon the new claims arising
under this section; but we think it was the intention of Congress to place such claims on a similar footing with those to
which the previous acts referred; and that with respect to
them the commissioners should be invested with similar powers
and be subject to similar duties. And upon that idea the corn-

Oct. 1877.)

MORROW V. WHITNEY.

missioners acted. They considered the claims presented under
the fifth section, and the evidence to bring the claims within
its provisions, and they reported the result of their labors to
the Secretary of the Treasury. The report stated what claims
they had confirmed, and what claims they had rejected, with
the evidence upon which their decision was based. Among
the claims considered and confirmed by them was one presented
by Alexis Gardapier, and one presented by Pierre Grignon.
The claim of Gardapier was to a certain tract situated on the
west bank of Fox River, at Green Bay, described "as being
a vacant strip lying between tract number one, confirmed to
Jacques Porlier, on the north, and tract number two, confirmed
to Louis Grignon, on the south, commencing at low-water mark
and running west eighty arpents, and in width three arpents
on the aforesaid river." American State Papers, Public Lands,
vol. iv. p. 272. The commissioners decided that the tract
claimed be confirmed to Gardapier, provided it did not interfere
with a previous confirmation.
The claim of Pierre Grignon was to a tract of land near Fort
Howard, on the west side of Fox River, at Green Bay, immediately below the first creek that emptied into the river, being
about fifteen acres in front on the river, and extending back
indefinitely. The commissioners decided that this claim be
confirmed, provided it did not interfere with the confirmation
previously made to Jacques Porlier, or with the one made by
them to Alexis Gardapier. The commissioners gave their decision upon both of these claims on the same day, Nov. 21,
1823. Their report was presented to the Secretary of the
Treasury, and by him referred to Congress; and, on the 17th
of April, 1828, Congress passed an act confirming the claims'
"purporting to be confirmed, or recommended for confirmation,"
by the commissioners. 4 Stat. 260. The act required the
Secretary of the Treasury to adopt such measures as might be
necessary to give full effect to the reports of the commissioners,
but with a proviso, among other things, that the confirmations
should not be so construed as to extend to any lands occupied
by the United States for military purposes. The act, also,
made it the dut, of the register of the land-office at Detroit to
issue to the claimants whose claims were confirmed patent cer-

MORROW v. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

tificates, upon which patents were to be granted by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office.
If the land claimed by Gardapier were not occupied at the
time by the United States for military purposes, there was no
impediment to the immediate operation of the act upon his title.
Whether there was any evidence of such occupation we shall
presently consider. Assuming now that there was no such occupation, the effect of the act was not doubtful. Itrecognized
the validity of the claim of Gardapier, and operated to transfer
to him the interest of the United States as effectually as a grant
or quitclaim could have done. A confirmation is a conveyance
of an estate or right in lands to one who has the possession or
some estate therein. The tract confirmed appears to have had
clearly defined boundaries, or to have been at least capable of
identification; and, if such were the case, the confirmation perfected the claimant's title. A subsequent patent would only
have served as documentary evidence of that title.
From the earliest period in the history of the country, claims
to tracts of land, upon which persons have settled and made
improvements in advance of the public surveys, and before the
lands have been offered for sale, sometimes upon the express
invitation of the public authorities, and sometimes upon their
supposed acquiescence, have been presented for the equitable
consideration of the government. Such claims in great numbers
have arisen under other governments from which we have acquired territory, with treaty stipulations for their protection.
Sometimes such claims have been submitted to boards of commissioners for approval or rejection; sometimes they have been
referred to the judicial tribunals for determination, and sometimes they have been directly acted upon by Congress. In the
settlement of these claims the law has generally provided that
a patent of the United States should be issued to the claimant
when his claim has been recognized as valid or entitled to confirmation. The patent in such cases, as we have recently had
occasion to observe, operates in two ways. "It is a conveyance
by the government, when the government has any interest to
convey; but where it is issued upon the confirmation of a claim
of a previously existing title, it is documentary evidence, having
the dignity of a record, of the existence of that title or of such

Oct. 1877J

MORROW V. WHITNEY.

equities respecting the claim as justify its recognition and confirmation. The instrument is not the less efficacious as evidence of previously existing rights because it also embodies
words of release or transfer from the government." Lavqdeau
v. Hfanes, 21 Wall. 521.
In this case, the patent would have been of great value to the
claimant. It would have enabled him, without other proof, to
maintain his title in the tribunals of the country. Founded as
it would have been upon a survey by the government, it would
have removed the doubt as to the boundaries of the tract, which
always arises where their establishment rests in the uncertain
recollection of witnesses as to an ancient possession. It would
thus have proved to its possessor an instrument of quiet and
security, but it would not have added any thing to the interest
vested by the confirmation.
RByan et al. v. Carter et al.,
93 U. S. 78.
If, then, there was no military occupation of the premises
when the confirmatory act passed, as we have thus far assumed,
the title of Gardapier became perfect by force of the confirmation. His claim, in our judgment, embraced the entire tract
lying between tract number one, confirmed to Jacques Porlier,
on the north, and tract number two, confirmed to Louis Grignon, on the south, commencing on the river and running back
eighty arpents. If there were a mistake, as alleged, in the
statement of the distance the tract extended along the river,
it was one which must yield to the clearly designated northern
and southern boundaries. Metes and bounds in the description
of premises control distances and quantities when there is any
inconsistency between them. This is a familiar rule, and is
founded upon the principle that those particulars are to be
regarded in which error is least likely to occur. Gardapier
might easily have been mistaken as to the length of his frontage on the river; but he could not well have been mistaken as
to the land bordering on each side of his small tract, or as to
whom it was confirmed. His tract was sufficiently identified
by the boundaries named; and in such cases it is immaterial if
a false or mistaken circumstance be added to the description.
The question, therefore, which was vital to the case, was
whether the land claimed by Gardapier was occupied for mili

MORROW V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ot.

tary purposes on the passage of the confirmatory act. There
is no evidence in the record that there was at that time any
such occupation, and the record purports to state all the testimony given. It was nearly a year after the confirmation before
the general of the army recommended, and the President ordered,
the reservation for military purposes of a tract which embraced
within its limits the land claimed by Gardapier. It was then
too late to affect his title. It is true the recommendation of
the commanding general was accompanied with a description
of the land ordered to be reserved, and a statement that the
land had been previously occupied for military purposes; but
that statement does not mention when such occupation commenced, or how long it existed. The statement could only be
evidence of the representation upon which the President acted;
it was not competent evidence of any other fact. And the order
of the President, effectual to create the reservation if the land
had continued the property of the United States, was of course
inoperative if the title had passed to Gardapier.
The military occupation was a fact to be established by parol
proof; it was not a matter of record, like the order of the President directing the reservation, to be shown by the production
of a copy. And the defendants offered in various forms to
prove, by witnesses produced for that purpose, that the tract
was not- thus occupied on the passage of the act of Congress,
and had not been' thus occupied previous to that date. They
also offered to prove that from the year 1824 down to the commencement of this action, a period of nearly forty-nine years,
the land had been in the actual, open, notorious, and exclusive
possession of Gardapier and parties claiming under him, and
that during this time it had been fenced, cultivated, improved,
and built upon without interruption, objection, or dispute on
the part of any one. But the court refused to admit the proof,
and also refused an instruction to the jury asked by the defendants, that in order to find a verdict for the plaintiff they must
be satisfied from the evidence that the land in controversy was
occupied by the United States for military purposes on April
17, 1828, or was reserved for military purposes at that time, or
was treated by the government as thus reserved.
So far as the proof offered related to the occupation at the

Oct. 1877.]

WEST ST. L. SAv. BK. v. SHAWNEE, Erc. Bi.

557

passage of the confirmatory act and previously, it was competent and should have been received, and the instruction asked
for was proper and should have been given. The refueal of
the court to receive the proof, and also to give the instraotion,
was error, for which the judgment must be reversed and a new
trial had. The proof as to subsequent possession was immaterial, if military occupation existed at that date. If such occupation then existed, the confirmation did not apply to the land,
and it continued as before the property of the United States.
Occupation of the public lands can never be adverse to the
government so as to defeat or affect in any way the title
subsequently conferred by its grant or patent. In such cases,
the doctrine declared in Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall. 92, applies.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with direction to
order a new trial.

WEST ST. Louis SAVINGS BANK v. SHAWNFM COUT
BANK.
The cashier of a bank is not, by reason of his official position, presumed to
have the power to bind it as an accommodation indorser on his individual
note; and the payee who fails to prove that the cashier, as such, had authority

to make the indorsement cannot recover against the bank.

AppEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
Parmelee, cashier of the Shawnee County Bank, made his
individual note for $3,000, payable to the order of the West
St. Louis Savings Bank, indorsed it "G. F. Parmelee, cashier,"
and gave as collateral security a certificate of stock in the
Shawnee County Bank, issued to and owned by him. The
consideration of the note was money lent to him by the payee,
who was advised that he intended to use it to pay for his
stock in the Shawnee County Bank. He failed to pay the
note ; whereupon this suit was commenced by the payee against
him as maker, and the Shawnee County Bank as indorser, of
the note.

