Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY

CO. v. STEVENS.

which is without legal obligation, but which is equitable and
just in itself, being founded upon a valuable consideration
received by the corporation, is not a retroactive law, - no more
so than an appropriation act providing for the payment of a
pre-existing claim. The constitutional inhibition does not apply to legislation recognizing or affirming the binding obligation of the State, or of any of its subordinate agencies, with
respect to past transactions. It is designed to prevent retrospective legislation injuriously affecting individuals, and thus
protect vested rights from invasion.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILWAY CoNPANY v. STEVENS.
A., who was the owner of a patented car-coupling, for the adoption and use of
which by a railway company he was negotiating, went, at the request and
expense of the company, to a point on its road to see one of its officers in
relation to the matter. A free pass was furnished by the company to carry
him in its cars. During the passage, the car in which he was riding was
thrown from the track, by reason of the defective condition of the rails, and
he was injured. Held, 1. That the pass was given for a consideration, and
that he was a passenger for hire. 2. That, being such, his acceptance of the
pass did not estop him from showing that he was not subject to the terms and
conditions printed on the back of the pass, exempting the company from liability for any injury he might receive by the negligence of the agents of the
company, or otherwise.

ERmoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine.
This was an action on the case for negligence, brought against
the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada, to recover damages for

injuries received by Stevens whilst a passenger in its cars.
The plaintiff, being owner of a patented car-coupling, was nego-

tiating with the defendant, at Portland, Me., for its adoption
and use by the latter, and was requested by the defendant to
go to Montreal to see the superintendent of its car department
in relation to the matter, the defendant offering to pay his
expenses. The plaintiff consented to do this; and, in pursuance of the arrangement, be was furnished with a pass to carry

him in the defendant's cars.

This pass was in the usual form

RAILWAY CO. V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ot.

of free passes, thus, "Pass Mr. Stevens from Portland to Montreal," and signed by the proper officer. On its back was the
following printed indorsement: "The person accepting this free ticket, in consideration thereof,
assumes all risk of all accidents, and expressly agrees that the company shall not be liable, under any circumstances, whether of negligence by their agents or otherwise, for any injury to the person,
or for any loss or injury to the property, of the passenger using the
ticket. If presented by any other person than the individual named
therein, the conductor will take up this ticket and collect fare."
The plaintiff testified that he put the pass into his pocket
without looking at it; and the jury found specially that he did
not read the indorsement previous to the accident, and did not
know what was indorsed upon it. He had been a railroad conductor, however, and had seen many free passes, some with a
statement on the back, others without.
During the passage from Portland to Montreal, the car in
which the plaintiff was riding ran off the track and was precipitated down an embankment, and he was much injured. The
direct cause of the accident, according to the proof, was that,
at the place where it occurred, and for some considerable distance in each direction, the bolts had been broken off the fishplates which hold the ends of the rails together, so that many
of these plates had fallen off on each side, leaving the rails without lateral support. The consequence was that the track spread,
and the cars ran off, as before stated. There was also evidence
that at this place the track was made of old rails patched up.
The above facts appeared on the plaintiff's case, and the defendant offered no evidence, but requested the court to instruct
the jury as follows First, That if the plaintiff, at the time of sustaining the
injury, was travelling under and by virtue of the Pass produced
in evidence in the case, he was travelling upon the conditions
annexed to it.
Second, That if the plaintiff, at the time of sustaining the
injury, was travelling under and by virtue of the pass produced
in evidence in the case, the defendant is not liable.
Third, That if the plaintiff, at the time of sustaining the

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. V. STEVENS.

injury, was travelling as a free passenger, the defendant is not
liable.
Fourth, That if the plaintiff, at the time of sustaining the
injury, was travelling as a gratuitous passenger, without any
consideration to the defendant for his transportation, the defendant is not liable.
The court refused these instructions, as inapplicable to the
evidence produced, and instructed the jury as follows, viz.: That if the jury find that, in May, 1873, the plaintiff was
interested in a car-coupling, which had been used on the cars
of the defendant since December previous, and that the officers of the company were desirous that the plaintiff should
meet them at Montreal to arrange about the use of such couplings on their cars by defendant, and they agreed with him to
pay his expenses if he would come to Montreal, and he agreed
so to do, and took passage on defendant's cars, and was, by the
reckless misconduct and negligence of the defendant, and without negligence on his part, injured whilst thus a passenger in
defendant's car, the defendant is not exonerated from liability
to plaintiff for his damages occasioned by such negligence, by
reason of the indorsement upon the pass produced in evidence.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendant then sued out this writ of error.
.1Ir. John Rand for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff below was travelling gratuitously under a free
pass, and subject to its conditions. The company was, therefore, not liable.
Fells v. .Nrew Fork Central Railroad Co., 24
N. Y. 181; Perkins v. Same, id. 196; Bissell v. Same, 25 id.
442; Poucher v. Same, 49 id. 263; Cragin v. Same, 51 id. 64.
He cannot be permitted to deny that he knew and accepted
those conditions. Steen v. Steamship Company, 57 N. Y. 1;
Monitor Company v. Buffum, 115 Mass. 345.
AIr. C. P. Miattoceks, contra.
A pass, purporting on its face to be a free pass, may, nevertheless, be given for a consideration, and the holder be a passenger
for hire. That such was the fact in this case is conclusively
shown by the evidence, and the company is liable. Kinney v.
Central Railroad Co., 34 N. J. L. 513; s. c. 3 Am. Rep. 265;
Philadelphia & Reading Railroad Co. v. Derby, 14 How. 486;
VOL. V.

42

RAILWAY

00. V. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Wilton v. Middlesex Railroad Co., 107 Mass. 108; Jacobus v.

St. Paul & Chiiago Railway Co., 20 Minn. 125; Rose v.
Des Moines Thalleq Railroad Co., 39 Iowa, 346; Cleveland,
Painesville, & Ashtabula Railroad Co. v. Curran,19 Ohio St.
1; s. c. 2 Am. Rep. 362. Bissell v. New York Central Railroad Co., 25 N. Y. 442, and Poucherv. Same, 49 id. 263, can
have no weight in this court since Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357.
Even admitting that the words printed on the back of the
pass furnished to the plaintiff could, if assented to by him, have
limited the company's liability, there is no evidence whatever
that he had knowledge of them. There was, therefore, no assent
upon his part to the terms of the alleged special contract or
notice. New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank,
6 How. 344; The Philadelphia &' Reading Railroad Co. v.
Derby, 14 id. 468; The Steamboat New World v. Zing et al., 16
id. 469; York Company v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107;
WTalker v. The TransportationCompany, id. 150; -Express Company v. Kountze Brothers, 8 id. 342; Railroad Company v.
Lockwood, supra.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is evident that the court below regarded this case as one
of carriage for hire, and not as one of gratuitous carriage, and
that no sufficient evidence to go to the jury was adduced to
show the contrary; and, hence, that under the ruling of this
court in Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, it was
a case in which the defendant, as a common carrier of passengers, could not lawfully stipulate for exemption from liability
for the negligence of its servants. In taking this view, we
think the court was correct. The transportation of the plaintiff in the defendant's cars, though not paid for by him in
money, was not a matter of charity nor of gratuity in any
sense. It was by virtue of an agreement, in which the mutual
interest of the parties was consulted. It was part of the consideration for which the plaintiff consented to take the journey
to Montreal. His expenses in making that journey were to be
paid by the defendant, and of these the expense of his transportation was a part. The giving him a free pass did not alter

Oct. 1877.]

ORAILWAY

0o. V. STEVENS.

the nature of the transaction. The pass was a mere ticket, or
voucher, to be shown to the conductors of the train, as evidence
of his right to be transported therein. It was not evidence of
any contract by which the plaintiff was to assume all the risk;
and it would not have been valid if it had been. In this respect
it was a stronger case than that of Lockwood's. There the
pass was what is called a "drover's pass," and an agreement
was actually signed, declaring that the acceptance of the pass
was to be considered as a waiver of all claims for damages or
injury received on the train. The court rightly refused, therefore, in the present case, to charge that the plaintiff was travelling upon the conditions indorsed on the pass, or that, if he
travelled on that pass, the defendant was free from liability.
And the court was equally right in refusing to charge, that, if
the plaintiff was a free or gratuitous passenger, the defendant
was not liable. The evidence did not sustain any such hypothesis. It was uncontradicted, so far as it referred to the arrangement by virtue of which the journey was undertaken.
The charge actually given by the court was also free from
material error. It stated the law as favorably for the defendant as the latter had a right to ask. If subject to any criticism,
it is in that part in which the court supposed that the jury
might find that the plaintiff was injured by the reckless misconduct and negligence of the defendant. If this degree of
fault had been necessary to sustain the action, there might
have been some difficulty in deducing it from the evidence.
However, the condition of the track where the accident took
place, without any explanation of its cause, was perhaps suffi
cient even for such an inference. If the defendant could have
shown that the injury to the rails was the result of an accident
occurring so shortly before the passage of the train as not to
give an opportunity of ascertaining its existence, it did not do
so, but chose to rest upon the evidence of the plaintiff. In
fact, however, negligence was all that the plaintiff was bound
to show; and of this there was abundant evidence to go to the
jury. On the whole, therefore, we think that the charge presents no sufficient ground for setting aside the verdict. The
charge, if not formally accurate, was not such as to prejudice
the defendant.
It is strongly urge1 however, that the plaintiff, by accepting

1U60

RAILWAY 00. v. STEVENS.

[Sup. Ct.

the free pass indorsed as it was, was estopped from showing
that he was not to take his passage upon the terms therein
expressed; or, at least, that his acceptance of the pass should be
regarded as competent, if not conclusive, evidence that such a
pass was in the contemplation of the parties when the arrangement for his going to Montreal was made. But we have
already shown that the carrying of the plaintiff from Portland
to Montreal was not a mere gratuity. To call it such would be
repugnant to the essential character of the whole transaction.
There was a consideration for it, both good and valuable. It
necessarily follows, therefore, that it was a carrying for hire.
Being such, it was not competent for the defendant, as a common carrier, to stipulate for the immunity expressed on the
back of the pass. This is a sufficient answer to the argument
propounded. The defendant being, by the very nature of the
transaction, a common carrier for hire, cannot set up, as against
the plaintiff, who was a passenger for hire, any such estoppel
or agreement as that which is insisted on.
Since, therefore, from our view of the case, it is not necessary
to determine what would have been the rights of the parties if
the plaintiff had been a free or gratuitous passenger, we rest
our decision upon Railroad Company v. Lockwood, supra. We
have no doubt of the correctness of the conclusion reached in
that case. We do not mean to imply, however, that we should
have come to a different conclusion, had the plaintiff been a
free passenger instead of a passenger for hire. We are aware
that respectable tribunals have asserted the right to stipulate
for exemption in such a case; and it is often asked, with apparent confidence, "May not men make their own contracts, or,
in other words, may not a man do what he will with his own ?"
The question, at first sight, seems a simple one. But there is
a question lying behind that: " Can a man call that absolutely
his own, which he holds as a great public trust, by the public
grant, and for the public use as well as his own profit?" The
business of the common carrier, in this country at least, is
emphatically a branch of the public service; and the conditions
on which that public service shall be performed by private
enterprise are not yet entirely settled. We deem it the safest
plan not to anticipate questions until they fairly arise and
become necessary for our decision.
Judgment affirmed.

