Odt. 1877.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

CL A RK V. UNITED STATES.
1 The act of Congress approved June 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 411), which makes it the

duty of the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary
of the Interior to require every contract made by them severally on behalf of the government, or by officers under them appointed to make such
contracts, to be reduced to writing, and signed by the contracting parties,
is mandatory, and in effect prohibits and renders unlawful any other mode
of making the contract.
2. Where, however, a parol contract has been wholly or partly executed on one
side, the party performing will be entitled to recover the fair value of his
property or services as upon an implied contract for a quantum meruit.
In the present case, the contract for the use of the claimant's vessel, and for
the payment of her value if she should be lost in the service of the government, was not reduced to writing. When in that service she was manned
by a captain and crew furnished by the Quartermaster's Department and
lost; but no negligence was attributed to them. Held, that the implied
contract being such as arises upon a simple bailment for hire, the claimant
cannot recover for her loss.
4. The forms of pleading in the Court of Claims do not preclude a claimant from
recovering what is justly due him upon the facts stated in his petition,
although there be no count in the petition as upon an implied contract.
6. No question having been raised as to the claimant's title to the vessel, and
there being no suggestion of any concealment or suppression of the truth
on his part at the time the agreement to compensate him for the use of
her was made, she being then in Mexican waters, it would be bad faith
on the part of the government, after getting her within its jurisdiction
and into its possession, under the pretence of hiring her, to set up that the
claimant, having obtained her from the Confederate government in 1863 in
payment for supplies furnished to the Quartermaster's Department of that
government, had no valid title to her as against the United States.

from the Court of Claims.
This is a claim against the United States for the value ot a
steamer lost in the government service in September, 1865, and
for her use for eight days before the loss occurred, at $150 per
day.
The Court of Claims found the following facts :
1. In September, 1865, at Brownsville, Texas, the claimant
and Major 0. 0. Potter, an officer in the Quartermaster's Department, entered into an oral agreement, with the approval
of General Steele, commanding the western division of Texas.
The agreement was that the Quartermaster's Department should
pay the claimant $150 a day for the use of the steamer" Belle;"
APPEAL

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 01.

but no specific contract was made, or to be made, as to time,
untj1 she had made a trial trip from Brownsville to Ringgold
Barracks and return, to prove her ability to perform the service
for which the Quartermaster's Department needed a steamer;
and, if she made a satisfactory trial trip, the parties were then
to enter into a formal written &ontractfor her future use at the
same price per day. It was also at the same time agreed
orally that the Quartermaster's Department was to run the
steamer on her trial trip at the expense of the government, and
that if she were lost on her trial trip the government should
pay for her whatever three disinterested men should estimate
her value to be.
2. Under this agreement the claimant delivered the steamer
to the Quartermaster's Department, at Brownsville. The quartermaster then put his own captain and crew on the vessel, and
sent her to Ringgold Barracks. On her voyage, while thus in
the service of the government, she was wrecked, and proved a
total loss. Three disinterested persons were then agreed upon
and requested by Major Potter and the claimant to appraise
the value of the vessel. They so acted, and, by a written
award, found the vessel to be of the value of $60,000. The
claimant has also proved by evidence other than the award
that $60,000 was the reasonable value of the vessel. The
steamer was in the service of the government before her loss
eight days. The United States has not paid for the value of
the vessel nor for her service.
3. The steamer "Belle" was previously owned by, and in the
military possession of, the Confederate government. The claimant acquired his title to her about the year 1863, taking her
in part payment of a claim he held for supplies furnished by
him to the Confederate Quartermaster's Department. At the
time she was chartered by Major Potter, as set forth in the first
finding, she was in the claimant's possession as alleged owner,
and she was also in Mexican waters, beyond the jurisdiction of
the United States.
Upon these facts the claim was dismissed.
The claimant then brought the case here.
Mr. .Enoch Totten for the appellant.
Tke Solicitor-General, contra.

Oct. 1877.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

541 •

MR.JUSTICE

BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first objection made to the claim is, that the contract
was not in writing, as required by the act of June 2, 1862, entitled "An Act to prevent and punish fraud on the part of
officers intrusted with the making of contracts for the government." 12 Stat. 411. This act provides: " SECT. 1. That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of War, of the
Secretary of the Navy, and of the Secretary of the Interior, immediately after the passage of this act, to cause and require every
contract made by them severally on behalf of the government, or
by their officers under them appointed to make such contracts, to
be reduced to writing, and signed by the contracting parties with
their names at the end thereof, a copy of which shall be filed by
the officer making and signing the said contract in the I returns office'
of the Department of the Interior (hereinafter established for that
purpose), as soon after the contract is made as possible, and within
thirty days, together with all bids, offers, and proposals to him
made by persons to obtain the same, as also a copy of any advertisement he may have published inviting bids, offers, or proposals for
the same ; all the said copies and papers in relation to each contract
to be attached together by a ribbon and seal, and numbered in
regular order numerically, according to the number of papers composing the whole return."

The act further provides that the officer shall affix an affidavit to his return, and makes it a misdemeanor to neglect making his return, and directs the heads of departments to furnish
printed instructions and forms of contracts, &c.
It is contended on the part of the government that this act is
mandatory and binding both on the officers making contracts
and on the parties contracting with them; whilst the claimant
insists that it is merely directory to the officers of the government, and cannot affect the validity of contracts actually made,
though not in writing. The Court of Claims has heretofore
held the act to be mandatory, and as requiring all contracts
made with the departments named to be in conformity with
it.
The arguments by which this view has been enforced by
that court are of great weight, and, in our judgment, conclusive. The facility with which the government may be pillaged
by the presentment of claims of the most extraordinary charac-

542

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup.

Ut.

ter, if allowed to be sustained by parol evidence, which can
always be produced to any required extent, renders it highly
desirable that all contracts which are made the basis of demands against the government should be in writing. Perhaps
the primary object of the statute was to impose a restraint
upon the officers themselves, and prevent them from making
reckless engagements for the government; but the considerations referred to make it manifest that there is no class of
cases in which a statute for preventing frauds and perjuries is
more needed than in this. And we think that the statute in
question was intended to operate as such. It makes it unlawful for contracting officers to make contracts in any other way
than by writing signed by the parties. This is equivalent to
prohibiting any other mode of making contracts. Every man
is supposed ta know the law. A party who makes a contract
with an officer without having it reduced to writing is knowingly accessory to a violation of duty on his part. Such a
party aids in the violation of the law. We are of opinion,
therefore, that the contract itself is affected, and must conform
to the requirements of the statute until it passes from the observation and control of the party who enters into it. After
that, if the officer fails to follow the further directions of the
act with regard to affixing his affidavit and returning a copy of
the contract to the proper office, the party is not responsible
for this neglect.
We do not mean to say that, where a parol contract has been
wholly or partially executed and performed on one side, the
party performing will not be entitled to recover the fair value
of his property or services. On the contrary, we think that he
will be entitled to recover such value as upon an implied contract for a quantum meruit. In the present case, the implied
contract is such as arises upon a simple bailment for hire; and
the obligations of the parties are those which are incidental to
such a bailment. The special contract being void, the claimant is thrown back upon the rights which result from the
implied contract. This will cast the loss of the vessel upon
him. A bailee for hire is only responsible for ordinary diligence and liable for ordinary negligence in the care of the
property bailed. This is not only the common law, but the

Oct. 1877.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

general law, on the subject. See Jones, Bailm., p. 88; Story,
Bailm., sects. 398, 399; Domat, Lois Civiles, lib. 1, tit. 4, sect.
3, pars. 3, 4; 1 Bell, Com., pp. 481, 483, 7th ed.
As negligence is not attributed to the employgs of the government in this case, the loss of the vessel, as before stated,
must fall on the owner.
Of course, the claimant is entitled to the value of the use of
his vessel during the time it was in the hands of the governinent agents, which, as shown by the findings, was the period
of eight days. This value, in the absence of any other evidence on the subject, may be fairly assumed at what was stipulated for in the parol contract. Though not binding or
conclusive, it may be regarded as admissible evidence for that
purpose. Neither party thought fit to adduce any other. The
cases bearing on this subject are collected in Browne's Treatise
on the Statute of Frauds, sects. 117-130 ; but they mostly refer
to the question whether the contract, though void by the
Statute of Frauds, can be regarded as conclusive evidence of
the quantum meruit. Whether or not it is admissible as some
evidence, though not conclusive on either party, is apparently
not much discussed; though it seems to us that it may fairly
be deduced from the tenor of the cases that the evidence is
admissible. At all events, that is our view. As a declaration
of the parties, it is entitled to some credence.
The stipulation in this case, as appears by the findings,
was for 5150 per day. This would make the amount of the
claim 81,200. For this amount the claimant is entitled to a
decree.
If objected that the petition contains no count upon an
implied contract for quantum meruit, it may be answered, that
the forms of pleading in the Court of Claims are not of so
strict a character as to preclude the claimant from recovering
what is justly due to him upon the facts stated in his petition,
although due in a different aspect from that in which his demand is conceived.
The other objection relied on by the government in this case
is, that the claimant had no valid title to the steamer as against
the United States, having obtained her from the Confederate
government, in 1863, in payment for supplies furnished to the

CLAR K V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. at.

Quartermaster's Department of that government. This objection cannot be sustained. When the contract was made with
the claimant, the vessel was in Mexican waters, and not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The claimant
was applied to for its use. It was agreed that he should be
compensated. No question was made about his title, and it is
not suggested that he was guilty of any concealment or suppression of the truth in regard to it. Under these circumstances, it would be bad faith on the part of the government,
after getting possession of the steamer and getting it within its
jurisdiction, under pretence of hiring it of the claimant, to set
up that he had no title to it. This is so obviously in accordance with the justice of the case, that we deem it unnecessary
to make any further observations on the subject.
The decree of the Court of Claims must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
Mr. JUsTIcE MIrLER, with whom concurred MR. JusTcIC
FIELD and MR. JUSTICE HUNT, dissenting.

While I agree to the reversal of the judgment in this case,
and to so much of the opinion as gives compensation for the
use of the vessel before she was destroyed, I cannot agree to the.
more important part of the opinion, which holds the contract
void because it was not reduced to writing.
The act of June 2, 1862, which is interpreted by the court to
be a statute of frauds, making all contracts of the Departments
of War, Navy, and Interior void which are not reduced to writing and signed by the parties, is not, in my judgment, properly
construed.
It cannot be doubted that it was competent for Congress to
impose upon the officers of these departments the duty of having all their contracts made in writing and filed in the proper
office, without making absolutely void a parol contract made
on a fair consideration and within the scope of their authority.
In other words, Congress had a right to give such directions to
those officers as would secure a statement in writing of the contract itself, for the use of the proper officers of the government,
without making it obligatory on the individual contracting with

Oct. 1877.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

the government, so that his contract, otherwise valid, would be
void for want of that formality.
Looking at sect. 1 of the statute, as it is cited in the opinion
of the court, it will be found wanting in the essential words of
all known statutes of fraud.
There is no declaration that a parol contract shall be void, or
that it shall not be enforced, or that no suit may be sustained
n-i it.
There is no language in it addressed to the party contracting
with the government. It is obvious that the primary purpose
of the statute- in my judgment, the only one -is to secure
authentic and perfect statements of such contracts, and of the
proposals, advertisements, bids, and all the papers relating to
them, to be filed in an office at Washington, where they can
be inspected by any one having an interest, and especially by
those superior officers whose approval or rejection may affect
their validity. The statute seems in terms to apply to contracts
in existence when it was passed as well as to those to be made
in future. Returns of all contracts are to be made and filed in
the office created for that purpose, within thirty days, together
with bids, advertisements, &c.
The second section requires the officer making these returns
to verify them by affidavit; and the object of this undoubtedly
was to have evidence on which the government could rely, of
the precise nature of the contract, and of the circumstances
under which it was made.
The third section imposes a penalty on the officer for failing
to make returns to the proper office, as required by the statute,
by a fine; but no penalty for making a contract not in writing
and signed by the parties.
In short, I cannot conceive, looking to the whole statute, that
Congress intended any thing more than to regulate the conduct
of its own officers, in compelling them to furnish all the evidence in their power of the contract and the circumstances
attending its negotiation; and it seems to me to be going a
long way to hold that it was the purpose to establish an
entirely new rule as to the validity of contracts, at variance
with any law heretofore known in this country, or, perhaps,
any other.
VOL. V.

85

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

If that was the purpose, it is hard to see why contracts in
the three departments mentioned are selected for the operation
of the rule, while the far more numerous and equally important
contracts of the Post Office, the Attorney-General's Office, the
Treasury and the State Departments are left to be controlled
by the law as it stood before.
If there is any branch of the public service where contracts
must often be made speedily, and without time to reduce the
contract to writing, it is in that of the army. Sudden occasions for supplies, for the occupation of buildings, for the transportation of food and munitions of war, are constantly arising,
and in many of them it is impossible to do more than demand
what is wanted, and agree to pay what it is worth. Did Congress intend to say that the patriotic citizen, who said "take
of mine what is necessary," is to lose his property for want of
a written contract, or be remitted to the delays of an act of
Congress ?
It seems to me that if Congress had been intending to enact
a statute of frauds, they would have made some limitation of
its operation to cases of future delivery of property or future
performance of service, and would not have passed a statute
like this, which, if its effect is such as the court declares, renders void all contracts for compensation for the thousand small
services and supplies which are daily needed by those in the
employment of the government for its use.
I think the construction given by the court unwarranted and
unfortunate, and of sufficient importance to record my dissent
from it.

