Oct. 1877.]

YOUNG V. UNITED STATES.

YOUNG V. UNITED STATES.
The decision of the Court of Claims awarding, on the motion of the United States,
a new trial, while a claim is pending before it, or on appeal from it, or
within two years next after the final disposition of such claim, cannot be
reviewed here.

ON motion for a writ of certiorari.
A judgment was rendered in this case by the Court of
Claims, May 15, 1874, from which the United States took an
appeal to this court. On the 5th of May, 1876, while that
appeal was pending, the United States moved the Court of
Claims for a new trial, under the provisions of sect. 1088, Rev.
Stat. The motion was as follows: "And now comes the Attorney-General in behalf of the United
States, and moves the court to grant the United States a new trial
in the above-stated case, lately decided in this court, and that an
order may be made staying the payment of the judgment so ren
dered in favor of said Alexander Collie, the said claimant. And
the Attorney-General herewith submits to the court in support of
this motion the affidavits of sundry witnesses taken abroad by the
counsel of the United States, and certain papers and documents
duly proved and verified, which the United States, by its AttorneyGeneral, says have been discovered and obtained since the trial of
the case, and which evidence the United States, by its AttorneyGeneral, insists should satisfy the court that fraud, wrong, and injustice have been done to the United States by the recovery by
said Collie of said judgment."
Upon the hearing of this motion a new trial was granted.
The United States then came to this court, and moved to dismiss their appeal. This motion was resisted by the then appellee, who asked that a writ of certiorari might issue to bring
here the proceedings of the Court of Claims in granting the new
trial. This application was denied, and the appeal dismissed.
Afterwards, the Court of Claims reheard the cause, and gave
judgment for the United States. From that judgment this
appeal was taken; and the transcript of the record sent here
contains the motion of the United States for the new trial and
action of the court thereon, but not the affidavits filed in
VOL. V.

YOUNG V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL

support of or in opposition to the motion. The appellant now
moves for a writ of certiorarito bring here these affidavits, with
the papers and documents appended thereto.
Sect. 1088 of the Revised Statutes is in these words :"The Court of Claims, at any time while any claim is pending
before it, or on appeal from it, or within two years next after the
final disposition of such claim, may, on motion on behalf of the
United States, grant a new trial, and stay the payment of any judgment therein upon such evidence, cumulative or otherwise, as shall
satisfy the court that any fraud, wrong, or injustice in the premises
has been done to the United States."
3lr. W. W. Mac~arland and M3r. J. H~uhley Ashton in support of the motion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

MRt. CIt_ JusTICE WAiE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Under the act of June 28, 1868 (15 Stat. 75), re-enacted in
sect. 1008, Rev. Stat., it was said, in Ex parte Russell, 13 Wall.
664, that to justify the grant of a new trial "a new case must
be made, -a
case involving fraud or other wrong practised
upon the government. It is analogous to the case of a bill of
review in chancery to set aside a former decree or a bill impeaching a decree for fraud." This remark of the judge, in
the argument of the opinion, is to be construed in connection
with the particular objection to the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims he was then considering, which was "that the granting of a new trial after a decision by this court is, in effect, an
appeal from the decision of this court." This, he said, "would
be so, if it were granted upon the same case presented to us;
but it is not. A new case must be made," &c.
When this case was before us at the last term, upon the
application for the writ of certiorari to bring up the proceedings of the Court of Claims in granting the new trial, it was
contended that the court had proceeded "without jurisdiction,
power, or authority;" and, in denying the writ, we said, "the
proceedings under which the new trial was obtained are now
part of the record below, and, after judgment is finally rendered, may be brought here by appeal for review." United

Oct. 1877.]

YOUNG V. UNITED STATES.

States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258. They are now here; and the
record, instead of showing that the court did not have jurisdiction to proceed, shows affirmatively that it had. The motion,
as made, brings the case directly within the statute. That
being so, the objection as to the jurisdiction of the court, which
alone we were then considering, is answered. A case having
been made upon the record, such as would justify its interference, that court had the right to hear the evidence, and decide.
Over its decision within that jurisdiction we have no control,
for the statute has not provided an appeal. The new trial is
to be granted if the evidence submitted, whether cumulative
or otherwise, is sufficient to satisfy that court "that fraud,
wrong, or injustice had been done to the United States." The
act was passed for the protection of the United States. It constitutes one of the conditions which Congress has seen fit to
attach to the grant of a right to sue the United States. The
suitor cannot complain, for he accepted this condition of the
jurisdiction when he commenced his suit. If the record showed
affirmatively that the Court of Claims had granted a new trial
after the term at which the judgment was rendered, under circumstances which gave it no jurisdiction, -as, for instance,
after the expiration of two years from the final disposition of
the claim, or for some cause not within the provisions of the
statute, -a different case would be made from that which is here
now, and one which it will be time enough to consider when it
arises. We are all of the opinion that the decision of the Court
of Claims, upon a motion by the United States, within the prescribed jurisdiction, is conclusive, and not subject to review.
The claimant must rely upon his appeal from the final judgment upon the meits for protection against wrong under this
lotion denied.
form of proceeding.

