RAILROAD

Co. v. ROSE.

[Sup. ot.

Many other questions were discussed at the bar which will
not be decided at the present time, as .they are not properly
involved in the application before the court.
Petition denied.

RAILROAD ComtA-Y v. RosE.
A railroad company paid to the holders of its bonds the entire amount of semiannual interest accruing thereon from Jan. 1 to July 1, 1870. Held, that the
proper internal revenue officer of the United States rightfully assessed against
the company a tax of five per cent upon the amount so paid.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. James Alason, lLr. Samuel Shellabarger,and Air. Jeremiah 111. Wilson for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railroad Company. A demurrer to its petition was
sustained by the court below, and judgment was given for the
defendant. We must, therefore, look to the petition for the
point to be decided. The facts well pleaded are to be taken as
true. The case made by the petition is as follows :The plaintiff was bound to pay the interest upon certain
bonds. The interest accruing from the 1st of January to the
1st of July, 1870, amounting to $185,500, matured upon the latter day, and within ten days from that time were paid to the
bondholders respectively. Neither five per cent nor any other
sum was withheld on account of taxes. On the 14th of July,
1870, Rose, the proper internal revenue officer of the United
States, assessed against the plaintiff the sum of $9,279.50 as a
tax of five per cent upon the amount so paid over to the bondholders. Payment was compelled by the seizure of property.
The amount of the tax paid to the collector is alleged to have
been exacted without warrant of law, and this suit was instituted to recover it back.

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD Co. v. ROSE.

The question presented for our determination is whether the
imposition of this tax was warranted by law. We think it
was.
The tax was levied under sect. 122 of the act of June 30,
1864, 13 Stat. 284, as amended by the act of July 13, 1866, 14
Stat. 138, and amended finally by the act of July 14, 1870,
sect. 17, 16 Stat. 261. The purport of the amendment last
mentioned was to give continuity to sect. 122, and other sections named, of the act of 1864, as amended, until the 1st of
August, 1870, the taxes imposed by all those sections then to
cease. The tax specified in sect. 122 was levied upon railroad,
canal, turnpike, canal navigation, and slack-water companies.
The section did not include the tax upon the in'come of individuals. That was provided for always in other separate and
distinct sections. Sect. 122, as amended, was in force when
the act of 1870 was passed, and, without further legislation,
would have continued in force indefinitely, unless there was a
previous limit to its duration imposed by the act of March 2,
1867, 14 Stat. 480. After a careful examination of the subject,
we are of the opinion that this limitation in the act of 1867 had
not, and was not intended to have, any effect upon sect. 122, as
amended; and that it applies exclusively to the tax upon the
income of individuals. Nothing else was within its scope. It
was confined to that subject. This limitation was not in the
original internal revenue act of Aug. 5, 1861, 12 Stat. 292,
although that act imposed the income tax.
The limitation appeared first in the act of July 1, 1862, 12
Stat. 474, sect. 92. It appeared again successively in the act
of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 283, sect. 119; in the act of June
13, 1866, 14 Stat. 138; andin the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat.
480. In all these instances, the collocation of the provision
and the context which precedes it, and that which follows as
well, show, with a clearness approaching to a demonstration,
that the construction we have given to it is the proper one.
The subject was exhaustively examined in the concurring opinion in Stodcedale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 333, and, as
a consequence, the conclusion was reached to which we have
come. It would be a waste of time to reproduce any thing said
in that opinion. It is sufficient for our purpose to refer to the

PACKET CO. v. KEOKIK.

[Sup. Ct.

argument there to be found. If this view be correct, it is conclusive of the case.
But conceding, for the purposes of this opinion, that we are in
error upon the point we have considered, and that the limitation
did terminate the tax prescribed in sect. 122, and in the other
sections specified in the seventeenth section of the act of 1870,
then it is clear that the section last named revived the sections
therein named, including sect. 122, and gave them the same
effect down to the 1st of August, 1870, in all respects as if those
sections had not been intermediately suspended or abrogated.
This proposition is maintained, and every objection taken to
it elaborately considered and answered, by the opinion of this
court in Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 328,
before referred to. We are entirely satisfied with respect to
the soundness of that judgment, and feel no disposition to reexamine the grounds upon which it was placed.
This, also, is conclusive of the present controversy.
Judgment affirmed.

PACKET COMPANY V. KEOKUK.
1. A municipal corporation having, by its charter, an exclusive right to make
wharves on the banks of a navigable river upon which it is situated, collect
wharfage, and regulate wharfage rates, can, consistently with the Constitution of the United States, charge and collect from the owner of enrolled
and licensed steamboats, which moor and land at a wharf constructed by it,
wharfage proportioned to their tonnage.
2. Statutes which are constitutional in part only will be upheld and enforced so
far as they are not in conflict with the Constitution, provided the allowed
and the prohibited parts are severable.

ERon to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.
The act of the legislature of Iowa creating the city of
Keokuk a municipal corporation gave to the city council power
to establish and regulate wharves, and to fix the rates of landing
and wharfage of all boats, rafts, and water-craft moored at or
landing at the wharves. By virtue of this power, the city council, on the 26th of February, 1872, passed an ordinance, the
first section of which ordained that all the ground then lying,

