TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

[Sup. Or.

ject. There is no such rule in the civil law, nor in the laws of
many of the States. So far as the opinion places the judgment
upon the statute of 1853, which prohibits the assignment of
claims against the United States, I concur in it.

TURNBULL v. PAYSON.
1. The court again decides that, where a corporation is adjudged a bankrupt, the
proper District Court of the United States, in order to provide means for

the payment of the debts of the corporation, may direct an assessment upon
the unpaid balance due on stock held by the several stockholders.
2. A person is presumed to be the owner of stock when his name appears on
the books of a company as a stockholder; and, when he is sued as such, the
burden of disproving that presumption is cast upon him.
8. The record of a district court of the United States is not within the act of
Congress approved May 29, 1790 (1 Stat. 122), prescribing the mode in
which the records and judicial proceedings of the State courts shall be authenticated, but is, when duly certified by the clerk under its seal, admissible as evidence in every other court of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. -Edward Otis Hinckley for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. . 1K. Tenney, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Stockholders in the bankrupt company were made liable by
the act of incorporation "in all cases of losses exceeding the
means of the corporation," each to the amount of the stock
which he held; and the record shows that the defendant, at the
time of the alleged loss, held fifty shares of the stock, eighty
per cent of which was unpaid.
Sufficient also appears to show that the insurance company,
on the 9th of October, 1871, met with losses by fire which
exhausted all their funds and effects; and that the corporation,
on the 14th of November of the next year, was duly adjudged
bankrupt by the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the insurance company having its principal place of
business at Chicago, in that district.

Oct. 1877.]

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

Due notice was given of the adjudication ; and the creditors,
at their first meeting, chose the plaintiff below the assignee of
the estate and effects of the bankrupt company. No opposing
interest appearing, the register, by an instrument under his
hand, assigned and conveyed to the assignee all the estate, real
and personal, of the bankrupt company.
Regular proceedings followed; and the bankrupt court, on the
4th of February, 1873, entered a decree that a call or assessment of sixty per cent upon the stock of the stockholders was
necessary for the purpose of raising funds to pay losses incurred by the bankrupt company in its insurance business,
and ordered and directed the assignee to proceed to make the
assessment.
Pursuant to that decree, the assignee made the assessment,
and filed in the bankrupt court due proof that he had given
the notices prescribed in the decree. Payment being refused
by the defendant, the plaintiff instituted the present suit in
the District Court for the District of Maryland, to recover the
amount of the assessment on the fifty shares held by the defendant. Service was made, and the defendant appeared and
pleaded that he never promised. Other proceedings took place,
which it is not necessary to notice; and at the next term the
parties went to trial, and the verdict and judgment were in
favor of the plaintiff. Exceptions were duly taken by the
defendant; and he sued out a writ of error, and removed the
cause into the Circuit Court, where the parties were again
heard, and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District
Court.
Cases of the kind may be re-examined here as well as in the
Circuit Court upon the bill of exceptions filed in the District
Court; and the defendant accordingly sued out a writ of error,
and removed the cause here for re-examination.
Nine bills of exception are set forth in the transcript, covering forty-eight pages of the same, all of which were allowed
in the District Court. Bills of exceptions are required, in
order that the matters to which they relate may be made a
pait of the record, and that it may appear that the questions
involved were raised in the subordinate court. Such a proceeding constitutes a proper foundation for a writ of error, but

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

[Sup. 0 ;.

it does not remove the cause into the appellate court without a
writ of error; and, whenever a cause is removed into this court,
the requirement is that there shall be an assignment of errors,
setting "out separately and specificall3 each error asserted and
intended to be urged," and "when the error alleged is to the
charge of the court, the specification shall set out the part referred to totidem verbis, whether it be the instruction given or
instruction refused." Argument to show that the assignment
of errors in this cause is not a compliance with that rule is unnecessary, as it is obvious that it is materially defective both in
form and substance.
Three errors are set forth in a single assignment: 1. That
the court erred by admitting in evidence the several matters
set forth in exceptions Nos. 1 to 8. 2. That the court erred in
rejecting the prayers for instruction presented by the plaintiff,
Nos. 1 to 9. 3. That the court erred in the instruction given to
the jury, which covered the whole case.
Assignments of error are required to be more specific and
definite ; but, inasmuch as the defendant has reduced the several
exceptions to a summary statement, the material questions
will be re-examined.
Two principal allegations were required to be proved by the
plaintiff in order to maintain the action, which was assumpsit
to recover the assessment made by the order of the bankrupt
court: 1. That the defendant was a stockholder in the company,
and that he owned fifty shares of the capital stock. 2. That
the assessment had been made by the assignee, as alleged in
the declaration.
During the trial, the plaintiff offered evidence to prove that
the defendant was a stockholder, as follows: 1. He offered the
books of the corporation, in which the name of the defendant
was entered as the owner of fifty shares. 2. He offered the
stock-book of the company, with a duplicate of the stock certificate issued to the defendant, showing that he was the owner
of the same number of the shares of the capital stock. 3. He
introduced testimony to prove that the certificate was sent to
the agents of the company, to be delivered to the defendant
when he paid twenty per cent of the shares; and that he made
the required payment. 4. He also introduced a receipt signed

Oct. 1877.]

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

by the defendant, showing that the company paid the defendant
a dividend upon his stock.
Separate objection was made by the defendant to each of the
offers of proof, which were admitted by the court, and the defendant excepted.
Taken as a whole, it is clear that the evidence offered was
amply sufficient to warrant the jury in finding that the defendant was a stockholder, as alleged. Where the name of an
individual appears on the stock-book of a corporation as a
stockholder, the prima facie presumption is that he is the
owner of the stock, in a case where there is nothing to rebut
that presumption ; and, in an action against him as a stockholder,
the burden of proving that he is not a stockholder, or of rebutting that presumption, is cast upon the defendant. Hoagland
v. Bell, 36 Barb. (N. Y.) 57; Plank Road v. Rice, 7 id. 162;
Turnpike Road v. Van Ness, 2 Cranch, C. C. 451 ; lludgett v.
Horrell, 33 Cal. 25; Coffln v. Collins, 17 Me. 440; Merrill v.
Walker, 24 id. 237.
Specific objection was also made to the admissibility of the
act of incorporation of the company, on account of a verbal
variance between the name of the company as given in the act
from that set forth in the declaration; but the objection is
without merit, as it presents no obstacle to a right understanding of the matter.
yodge
v. Barnes, 31 Me. 290; Chadsey v.
IfcCreery, 27 Ill. 253; -en. Seminary v. Wallace, 15 B. Mon.
(Ky.) 35.
Satisfactory proof having been exhibited that the company
was duly incorporated and organized, it follows that the receipt
of a dividend upon the shares standing upon the book of the
company in the name of the defendant, when taken in connection with the other evidence introduced by the plaintiff, is
conclusive to show that the assignment of error in that regard
should be overruled. Upton v. Ransbrough, 10 N. B. R. 369;
In re Bank, 12 N. Y. 17; Alder v. Bank, 13 Wis. 61; Ward
v. 1_anuf. Co., 16 Conn. 593.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the defendant that
the court below erred in admitting the record of the bankrupt
proceedings in the bankrupt court for the northern district of
fllinois. Several objections were taken to the admissibility of

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

[Sup. Ct.

that record, the principal one of which was that the copy of
the record was not properly authenticated.
Proceedings in bankruptcy are deemed to be matters of
record, but they are not required to be recorded at large. Instead of that, the requirement is that they shall be filed, kept,
and numbered in the office of the clerk of the court, a short
memorandum thereof being kept in books provided for tl-e purpose; and the express provision of the act of Congress is that
"copies of such records, duly certified under the seal of the
court, shall in all cases be prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated." 14 Stat. 535; Rev. Stat., sect. 4992.
Records and the judicial proceedings of the courts of any
State, the act of Congress provides, shall be proved or admitted
in evidence in any other court within the United States, by the
attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if
there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief
justice, or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the
said attestation is in due form. 1 Stat. 122; Mills v. Duryee,
7 Cranch, 481 ; Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290.
Both the Constitution and the act of Congress are limited
in terms to the records and judicial proceedings of the State
courts. Much discussion of that proposition is unnecessary,
as it has long since been established by judicial decisions of
high authority. Adams v. Hay, 33 Conn. 419; Conk. Treat.
(5th ed.) 393; Pepoon v. Jenkins, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Cas. 119;
Williams v. Wilkes, 14 Pa. St. 228.
Beyond all doubt, the certificate of the clerk and the seal of
the court is a sufficient authentication of the record of a judgment rendered in a State court, when offered in evidence in the
Circuit Court sitting within the same State where the judgment was rendered. Jliewster v. Spalding, 6 McLean, 24.
Held, also, that such an authentication would be sufficient in
the State court; and, if so, that it would also be good in the
Circuit Court.
Art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution provides that full faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records, and judicial proceedings of every other State; and that
Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the manner in which
such records ehall be proved, and the effect thereof. Congress

Oct. 1877.]

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

has exercised that power, and provided in effect that they shall
be 'authenticated by the attestation of the clerk under the seal
of the court, with the certificate of the judge that the attestation is in due form. Bissell v. Briggs, 9 Mass. 461; Bank of
the United States v. Merchants' Bank of Baltimore, 7 Gill
(Md.), 415.
Records of State courts, in order that they may be admissible
in the courts of other States, must be authenticated as required
in that provision; but the act of Congress does not apply to the
courts of the United States, nor to the public acts, records, or
judicial proceedings of a State court to be used as evidence in
another court of the same State. Conclusive support to that
proposition is found in many decided cases in addition to those
to which reference has already been made. Jenkins v. .Kinsley,
3 Johns. (N. Y.) Cas. 474; Adams v. Lesher, 3 Blackf. (Ind.)
241; Murray v. 3arsh, 2 Hayw. (N. C.) 290.
Circuit and district courts of the United States certainly
cannot be considered as foreign in any sense of the term, either
in respect to the State courts in which they sit, or as respects
the Circuit or District Court of another circuit or district. On
the contrary, they are domestic tribunals, whose proceedings all
other courts of the country are bound to respect, when authenticated by the certificate of the clerk under the seal of the court,
the rule being that the Circuit Court of one circuit or the
District Court of one district is presumed to know the seal of
the Circuit or District Court of another circuit or district, in
the same manner as each court within a State is presumed to
know and recognize the seal of any other court within the same
State. Womack v. -Dearman,7 Port. (Ala.) 513.
Attempt was made in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts
to exclude the record of a conviction in the criminal court,
upon the ground that it was not duly authenticated, it appearing that it was certified by the clerk under the seal of the court
without the certificate of the Chief Justice; but the Supreme
Court held, Shaw, C. J., giving the opinion, that the copy of
the proceedings of any court of record in that State, certified
to be a true copy of the record of such court by the clerk of
such court, under the seal thereof, is competent evidence of
the existence of such record in every other judicial tribunal

424

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

[Sup. Ct

in the Commonwealth. Commonwealth v. Phillips, 11 Pick.
(Mass.) 30. Since that time, it has been held by that court that,
it is not necessary, in order to render a copy of a record of a
court in that State competent evidence in another court of the
State, that it should be an exemplified copy under the seal of
the court, if it is duly certified by the clerk as a true copy of
the record. Chamberlin v. Ball, 15 Gray (Mlass.), 852; Ladd
Y. Blunt, 4 Mass. 402.
Three-quarters of a century ago, it was decided by the Suprem e Court of New York that a record of a judgment rendered
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts was admissible in evidence, it appearing that it
was authenticated in the ordinary method practised in the
courts of that Commonwealth; and they placed their decision
upon two grounds: 1. That the record was the record of a
Federal court. 2. That the act of Congress requiring exemplification did not apply in such a case. Jenkins v. Kinsley, Col.
& C. (N. Y.) Cas. 136.
Viewed in the light of these authorities, to which many more
might be added, we are all of the opinion with the Supreme
Court of Connecticut, that it is not absolutely necessary that
the record of a judgment should be authenticated in the mode
prescribed by the act of Congress referred to, to render the
same admissible in the courts of the United States; that the
District Court of the United States, even out of the State composing the district, is to be regarded as a domestic and not
a foreign court, and that the records of such a court may be
proved by the certificate of the clerk under the seal of the
court, without the certificate of the judge that the attestation
is in due form. Adams v. Way, 33 Conn. 419; l"_lichener v.
Payson, 13 N. B. R. 50; Mason v. Lawrason, 1 Cranch, C. C.
190.
Bankruptcy proceedings are in all cases deemed matters of
record, and are to be carefully filed and numbered; but they are
not required to be recorded at large. Short memoranda of the
same shall be made in books provided for the purpose, and kept
in the office of the clerk; and the provision is that the books
shall be open to public inspection. Copies of such records,
duly certified under the seal of the court, shall in all cases

Oct. 18717.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

be prima faeie evidence of the facts therein stated.

14 Stat.

536.
Suffice it to say, that the records of the bankruptcy proceedings admitted in evidence by the court below were authenticated in exact conformity with the directions of the Bankrupt
Act, and were, in the judgment of the court, properly admitted
in evidence; which is all that need be said in response to the
fifth exception.
Exceptions were also taken to the rulings of the court in
refusing to instruct the jury as requested by the defendant, and
to the instruction given to the jury; but it is not necessary to
give those exceptions a separate examination, for the reasons
that the material questions involved are substantially the same
as those presented in the exceptions to the rulings of the court,
already sufficiently considered. Even suppose the assignment
of errors presents all the questions involved in the exceptions,
still it is clear that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE

Comrp=i'Y v. DAVIS.

1. New York Life Insurance Company v. Statham et at., 93 U. S. 24, reaffirmed.
2. Where, as in this case, the legal effect of a policy of insurance is that the premiums shall be paid to the company at its domicile, the indorsement on the
margin of the instrument, that "all receipts for premiums paid at agencies
are to be signed by the president or actuary" of the company, is not an
agreement on its part to vary the condition of the contract, and to make
any particular agency the legal place of payment, but is merely a notice to
the assured that he must not pay to an agent, or at an agency, without
getting a receipt signed by the president or actuary.
3. A resident of Virginia, who had been before the war a local agent of a Northern insurance company, refused to receive the renewal premium, due Dec.
28, 1861, tendered him upon a policy of insurance upon the life of a resident of that State. His refusal was based upon the ground that he had
received no renewal receipts from the company, without which he could
not receive the premium, and that the money, if received, would be liable to confiscation by the Confederate government. The evidence further
failed to show that the company had consented to his continuing to act as
such agent during the war, or that he did so continue. Held, that, waiving
the consideration of any question in regard to the validity of an insurance
upon the life of an alien enemy, such tender of payment did not bind the
company.
4. The effect of a state of war upon the question of agency discussed.

