WILIJAMS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. CL

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.
1. Under the laws of Maryland prevailing in the District of Columbia, an interest in lands made by livery and seisin only, or by parol, except leases not
exceeding the term of three years, has only the force and effect of an estate
at will.
2. The court applies to this case the doctrines announced in Barry?, v. Coombe,
1 Pet. 640, and Purcell v. Miner, 4 Wall. 513, as to what must be set forth
in a written contract for the sale of lands, and what is sufficient part performance of a parol contract for such sale to take it out of the Statute of
Frauds.
& There is nothing in this case to bring it by analogy within the Statute of
Limitations which govern courts of law.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
In February, 1856, James Williams leased by parol certain
land in the city of Washington, the legal title to which stood
in his name, to Thomas B. Florence, with the privilege by the
latter of purchasing it for $6,000. In the following month,
Florence entered into possession as tenant of said James, and
made certain improvements. In October, 1856, Florence, haying learned that the heirs of John Williams were entitled to
an undivided moiety of the land, entered, with the consent of
James, into a written contract with them for the purchase
of their interest, which by decree was conveyed to him in
1864.
In April, 1853, and April, 1854, the property was sold for
taxes. One Ingle purchased it, and, after the period allowed
by law for redemption had expired, received deeds therefor
from the corporation of Washington, dated June 11, 1857.
Florence, after consultation with said James, paid Ingle the
amount of the taxes and accrued expenses Dec. 29, 1859, and
some months thereafter took from him a quitclaim for the
property, which, with the corporation deeds to Ingle, he caused
to be recorded. From March 1, 1856, to June, 1861, he remained in the personal occupation of the property. He then
rented it to the United States for $175 per month, which rent
he received until the commencement of this suit, Aug. 24, 1867,
by the complainants, some of whom are minors. They are the
heirs-at4-law of James Williams, who died intestate Aug. 15,

1862.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

The bill, after setting up the lease by James Williams to
Florence, alleged, inter alia, that the defendant during his tinancy under the lease suffered by his default the property to be
sold for taxes, and, having acquired the tax title, disclaimed his
tenancy, and set up an adverse title in himself. It therefore
prayed that Florence be decreed to convey to the complainants said tax title, and to account for a moiety of the rents and
profits.
The defendant answered, setting up his parol contract with
James to purchase, his subsequent discovery of the interest of
the heirs of John in a moiety of the property, the fact of his
purchase with the consent of James of that moiety, and its conveyance to him, and denied that thereafter he stood in the
relation of tenant or paid rent; but, on the contrary, he paid all
taxes and charges, and, with the full knowledge and consent of
said James, acted generally as owner, and made repairs. He
also alleged that said James had, by certain deeds of trust executed in 1848 and 1851, incumbered his moiety; and by another,
executed in 1858, the whole property, in a sum beyond the
amount of purchase-money and more than double the share of
James for his moiety. That, notwithstanding said incumbrances,
the defendant made various payments to said James, amounting from $1,500 to $2,000, on account of said purchase, but was
unable to procure a settlement. The defendant filed with his
answer the following receipts: "Received of Thomas. B. Florence forty dollars, to be accounted
for in the settlement for the purchase of the property at the corner
of Pennsylvania Avenue and 17th Street, now in his occupancy, and
sold by me to him.
"WASHM

GTON,

Jan. 1, 1857."

"WASUrNGTON, May 1, 1857.
"Received of Thomas B. Florence one hundred dollars, on account of purchase of building 17th St. & Pa. Av. $100.
"JAS.

WILLIAMS2'

He also denied that he had suffered the property to be sold
for taxes, but that said sales were for taxes due for the eight
years preceding his entry.
On the 11th of March, 1873, the complainants were allowed

1146

WILLIAMs V. MoRRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

to amend their bill by alleging that Florence, in October, 1856,
purchased the undivided moiety of the heirs of John Williams,
and thereby became tenant in common with James Williams;
that, after said relation of tenants in common thus began, Florence purchased from Ingle the outstanding tax title, which was
in all respects regulax and according to law, and obtained from
him a conveyance of the premises and of the full title thereof,
which conveyance and title said Florence claimed to hold as his
own, to the exclusion of the complainants.
The answer to the amended bill admitted the purchase in
October, 1856, of the claim of the heirs of John Williams
under the circumstances set forth in the answer to the original bill; denied that such purchase created, or was intended
to create, a tenancy in common with James Williams; and
averred that after the same the defendant held and enjoyed
the premises as the exclusive and absolute owner. It further
denied the validity of the tax title; averred it to be void on its
face, and that it was bought, with the knowledge and approval
of James Williams, to relieve the property from the outstanding charge for taxes; and that a deed was taken from Ingle,
because one to him had been entered on the books of the city;
and that the complainants' allegation of the validity of the tax
title was simply a pretext whereby to gain some color for the
asserted jurisdiction of a court of equity.
At the final hearing in special term, April 8, 1873, the court
decreed that the tax title purchased by Florence from Ingle
was taken by him in trust for the complainants to the extent
of one undivided moiety thereof; that the parol purchase set
up by him was void under the Statute of Frauds; and that, as
there was no part performance to take it out of the statute, he
should convey to the complainants said tax title to said moiety,
and account for rents and profits.
Florence then appealed to the general term, where the de.
cree of the special term was reversed and the bill dismissed.
The complainants then brought the case here.
Florence having died pendente lite, Morris, his executor, was
substituted in his stead.
The assignment of errors and other facts in the case are set
forth in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS

V. MORRIS.

Mr. Richard T. Hterrick and Mr. TMlliam A. hieloy for the
appellants.
The original lease in March, 1856, being merely by parol,
was inoperative after three years. When, therefore, Florence
terminated his personal occupancy of the premises in June,
1861, and with it the relation of landlord and tenant, he became as to one undivided moiety of them the bailiff of James
Williams, and liable to account under the statute of 4th Anne,
c. 16, sect. 27. This alone would have established the jurisdiction of a court of equity over the case. But, in addition
to that, Florence, by taking the conveyance in his own name
from Ingle, committed a breach of trust and a fraud upon his
co-tenant.
The tax title can afford no defence. The defendant's admission of the irregularity of the sale is conclusive, in the
absence of proof by the complainants to the contrary. 3 B1.
Com. 451.
But even if the tax sale was valid, Florence, so far as one
undivided moiety of the land was concerned, took the title in
trust for James Williams. Bothwell v. Dewees, 2 Black, 613;
Van Horne v. Fonda, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 388; Lewis v. Robinson, 10 Watts (Pa.), 354; 1 Story, Eq., sect. 466; 1 Washburn, Real Prop. 430.
The memorandum set up by the defendant to take his alleged
contract of purchase out of the operation of the Statute of
Frauds is fatally defective. Boydell v. Drummond, 11 East,
157; ffuddlestone v. Briscoe, 11 Ves. 591. The price to be
paid, and a definite description of the property, are material
parts, and cannot be proved by parol. Elmore v. Kingseote,
5 Barn. & Cress. 583 ; Taney v. Batchlell, 9 Gill (Md.), 205;
Tallnan v. Franklin, 14 N. Y. 584; 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 268;
2 Story, Eq. Jur., sects. 765-767. Whether it be set up as a
defence, or as a ground for specific performance, the rules are
the same. Browne, Frauds, sects. 122, 122 a, 131; Carrivgton
v. Boots, 2 Mee. & W. 248; Beede v. Lamb, 6 Exch. 130. And
a court of equity will not give relief, unless all the essential
terms of the parol agreement are established by satisfactory
proof, and the part performance has been of such a kind that
to refuse relief would unavoidably operate as a fraud upon

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ot.

the party. Clinan v. Cooke, 1 Sch. & Lef. 41; Galbreath v.
Galbreath,5 Watts (Pa.), 150 ; Purcell v. Hiner, 4 Wall. 513 ;
Caldwell v. Carrington,9 Pet. 86; 3 Phil. Evid. 351; Small v.
Owings, 1 Md. Ch. 364; Beard v. Linthicum, id. 345; .Elmore
v. Kingscote, 5 Barn. & Cress. 583; 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 268;
Owings v. Baldwin, I Md. Ch. 123; 2 Story, Eq., sects. 764767; Phillipsv. Thompson, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 131; Taney v.
Batchell, supra. The part performance which takes the case
out of the statute does not consist in the payment of money,
but in the delivery of the possession in pursuance of the contract, with a view to the performance of it. Caldwell v. Carrington, 9 Pet. 103; Christy v. Barnhart,14 Pa. 260; Brawdy
v. Brawdy, 7 id. 157; Phillips v. Thompson, 1 Johns. (N. Y.)
Ch. 149; Parkhurstv. Van Cortlandt,id. 273. Possession by
a tenant is not sufficient, I Sugden, Frauds, 149, 162; nor is
that by a tenant in common, however exclusive and notorious.
Galbreath v. Galbreath, 5 Watts (Pa.), 146.
The expenditures for permanent improvements must have
been made solely on the faith of the contract of sale, and
the possession taken with exclusive reference to it. Owings v.
Baldwin, supra; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sects. 763, 764; Af1oale v.
Buchanan, 11 Gill & J. (Md.) 314; Caldwell v. Carrington,
supra.

The rulings in regard to laches, staleness, or lapse of time
have no application to this case. Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87.
2lfr. Walter D. Davidge, contra.
The bill of the complainants should have been dismissed. It
was not filed until nearly ten years after the purchase complained of, and nearly five years after the death of James
Williams. There is no allegation of fraud, and no attempt to
explain the delay. Marsh v. Whitmore, 21 Wall. 178; Badger
v. Badger, 2 id. 87; Hlarwood v. Railroad Company, 17 id. 78;
The .Key City, 14 id. 653 ; Twin-Lick Oil Company v. ilarury,
91 U. S. 587.
Whilst a tenant cannot dispute the title of his landlord, he
may show that it has expired or become extinguished. Taylor,
Land. and Ten., sect. 629, and cases cited. When the reversion
is sold under execution, he may buy it, and set up against the
landlord the title so acquired. Nellis v. Lathrop, 22 Wend.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

(N. Y.) 121 ; Jackson v. Rowland, 6 id. 666 ; Depard v. Walbridge, 15 N. Y. 374. When not under obligation to pay taxes,
he may even buy at a tax sale. Cooley on Taxation, 345, 346.
And the title so acquired, if the proceedings conformed to the
statute, extinguishes his former relation to the landlord. Kirk.
patridk v. 3lathiot, 4 Watts & S. (Pa.) 251 ; Lewis v. Robinson,
10 Watts (Pa.), 354; Watkins v. Eaton, 30 Me. 529; Reinboth
v. The Zerbe Ruun Improvement Co., 29 Pa. 139.
The averment of the validity of the tax title is binding on
the complainants. They can recover only secundum allegata et
probata; and, if that title be invalid, there is no ground for the
exercise of equitable jurisdiction. .Ewingv. St. Louis, 5 Wall.
413; Dows v. Chicago, 11 id. 108; Hannewinkle v. Georgetown,
15 id. 547 ; Scott v. Onderdonk, 14 N. Y. 9 ; Cox v. Clift, 2 id.
118; Heywood v. The City of Buffalo, 14 id. 534; Ward v. Dewey,
16 id. 519; Piersoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95.
The two receipts signed by James Williams contain all the
requisites of the note or memorandum under the Statute of
Frauds, except that of price, and are prima facie evidence of a
sale legally made. Slatterie v. Pooley, 6 M.ee. & W. 663;
1 Phil. Evid. (4th Am. ed. 1859), pp. 422-424, where the authorities are collected; 1 Taylor, Evid., p. 413, sect. 381 ; Best,
Evid., sects. 525, 526.
The English rule has been followed in America. Smith v.
Palmer, 6 Cush. (Mass.) 513; Loomis v. Wadhams, 8 Gray
(Mass.), 557; Taylor v. Peck, 21 Graft. (Va.) 11.
The particulars of the contract are not involved in this
suit. The controlling question is whether Florence bought at
all, not upon what terms. The factum probandum is the fact of
purchase, and the contract is wholly collateral. Rex v. Inhabitants of Holy Trinity, 7 Barn. & Cress. 611; Doe v. Harvey,
8 Bing. 239, 241; Spiers v. Willson, 4 Cranch, 398; 1 Greenl.
Evid., sects. 96, 97; 1 Taylor, Evid., sect. 376; Taylor v.
Peck, 21 Gratt. (Va.) 11.
Parol contracts do not involve any violation of law. Courts
of equity refuse to extend their aid to rescind them merely because they are not in writing. Browne, Frauds, sect. 123, and
cases cited; id., sects. 129-131; Abbott v. Draper,4 Den. (N. Y.)
51; Cope v. Williams, 4 Ala. 362.
VoL. V.

29

WILLIAIS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

The court is asked to decree that a vendee acquiring in good
faith a title necessary to protect the interests of himself and
his vendor, is a trustee for the heirs-at-law, who, after the lapse
of eleven years, undertake to repudiate the agreement of their
ancestor.
Had he attempted by means of the tax title to escape his
obligations as vendee, he could properly be held a trustee as to
the unpaid purchase-money. The purchase-money, however, deducting the mortgages, has been paid, and he offers to account;
and, besides, the bill is in repudiation and not affirmance df the
contract.
The question is, then, whether, after such a vendee has
obtained a perfect title which he holds in subordination to
the parol contract, he can, without any imputation of fraud,
be held a trustee, except as to his obligations under that contract. That he cannot be so held is plain, in principle and
upon authority.
MR. JUSTICE CLirFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Sufficient appears to show that the complainants are the
heirs-at-law of James Williams, who died intestate Aug. 16,
1862, seised in fee of an undivided moiety of lot 1 in square
160 on the plan of the city of Washington, bounded as described
in the bill of complaint: and they allege that their intestate, six
years before his decease, acting for himself and for the heirs of
his brother previously deceased, who in his lifetime owned the
other moiety of the premises, rented the whole lot to the firstnamed respondent for the yearly sum of $600; that the rent
was subsequently increased, and that the lessee has ever since
remained in the possession of the undivided moiety which
belonged to the intestate, and that a large amount of the rent
is in arrear, the respondent having paid only an inconsiderable
amount of the same to the lessor during his lifetime, and nothing to the complainants since his decease.
Superadded to that, the charge of the complainants is that
the respondent, while so in possession of the premises as
tenant, did by his own default suffer the taxes assessed on the
lot to remain unpaid, that the premises were sold at a tax sale,
and that he claims to hold the same byvirtue of that sale: but

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS

V. MORRIS.

they allege that the title, if any, acquired to the moiety in
question inured to their benefit; and they further show that
the respondent has recently, in violation of his duty as tenant,
repudiated his tenancy, and claims title to the premises under
some pretended contract with the lessor in his lifetime for the
purchase of the same, all of which claim the complainants aver
is unfounded.
Based upon these allegations, the complainants allege that
the respondent has terminated his tenancy; and they charge
that he has ever since held the property, and received from the
United States large rents for the same, for which he is justly
accountable; and they pray for an account of all moneys due
for such rent to them and to the widow of the deceased lessor,
and that he be decreed to convey to the complainants all title
to the moiety of the premises he acquired by the tax sale, and
for general relief.
Service was made, and the first-named respondent appeared
and filed an answer, setting up several defences. Proofs were
taken on both sides, and the court at special term entered a
decree in favor of the complainants. Due appeal was taken
by the respondent to the general term ; when both parties were
again heard, and the Appellate Court reversed the decree entered at the special term, and dismissed the bill of complaint.
From that decree the complainants appealed to this court,
and now assign the following errors: 1. That the court erred
in finding, as matter of fact, that there was any contract made
by the intestate in his lifetime for the sale of his moiety of
the premises. 2. That the court erred in giving effect to
the alleged contract, as it was within the Statute of Frauds.
3. That the court erred in refusing to allow the complainants to
contiibute to the payment of the tax debt to relieve their title
from the cloud of the tax sale. 4. That the court erred in not
requiring the respondent to account for the rents and profits.
Prior to the origin of the present controversy, the premises,
with the building thereon standing, had been the partnership
property of the two brothers named in the bill of complaint.
Possession of the premises was taken by the respondent, and he
proceeded to repair the building, and expended several hundred
dollars in fitting up the lower story of the same'as an office for

'WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

the insurance company of which he was president. Six months
later or more, the respondent entered into a formal written contract with the heirs of the other deceased owner ; whereby they
agreed to sell and convey to him the other moiety of the pren.
ises, and he agreed to purchase the same for the sum of $3,000,
to be paid $1,000 in cash and the rest in notes.
Corporation taxes for two years -to wit, for the years 1853
and 1854- not having been pAid, the proper authorities sold the
premises for the payment of the same; and the record shows
that one John P. Ingle became the purchaser at each of the
sales, and that the right of redeeming the property had expired before the respondent went into possession. Deeds of
the premises were subsequently executed, and delivered to the
respondent; but he did not at the time put them on record,
probably for the reason that the sales were irregular and that
the deeds conveyed no valid title.
Negotiations subsequently ensued between the respondent
and the purchaser of the premises at the tax sales, which resulted, with the approval of the lessor, in an arrangement that
the respondent should pay the amount of the taxes and expenses and take up the tax deeds; and the evidence shows that
the arrangement was carried into effect.
Nothing remained in that regard for substantial controversy;
but the respondent six months thereafter induced the purchaser
at the tax sales to give him a quitclaim deed of the whole lot,
and at a still later period put all three deeds on record, showing the title to the entire premises in himself. Throughout
the whole period, the respondent continued to occupy the
premises, until June, 1861, when he rented the same to the
United States at $175 per month; which rental he has since
received.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, much discussion of
the title of the complainants, irrespective of the defences set
up in the answer, is unnecessary; as it is obvious that they are
entitled to a decree in their favor, unless the defences or some
one of them can be sustained.
Three of the defences set up in the answer will be separately
considered: 1. That the respondent was lawfully in possession
of the lot with the tenement thereon, under a parol contract with

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS v. MORRIS.

the complainants' intestate for the purchase and conveyance of
his moiety of the premises. 2. That the pretended claim set
up by the complainants is stale, and ought not to receive the
countenance of the court of equity as the ground for the relief prayed. 3. That the cause of action set up in respect to
the matters alleged, if any, occurred more than three years
before the filing of the bill of complaint or the service of process ; and that the respondent did not, at any time within
three years next before the filing of the bill or the service
of process, agree to come to any account or pay any sum of
money to the complainants by reason of the matters therein
charged.
Briefly stated, the matters alleged in the answer in support
of the first defence are, that the respondent, in the month of
February, 1856, entered into a contract with James Williams,
under which he rented the premises at the rate of $650 a year,
with the right thereafter to purchase the same for the sum of
$6,000, the lessor representing at the time that he was the sole
owner of the same; and that he, the respondent, entered into
the possession of the lot and tenement, and proceeded to make
extensive improvements and alterations in the tenement; that
six months later he learned, to his great surprise, that the heirs
of John Williams, deceased, were entitled to a moiety of the
estate; and that he, the respondent, in order to confirm his
title, and at the instance and with the approval of his lessor,
entered into a contract with the heirs of the deceased owner,
whereby one-half of the purchase-money was agreed to be paid
to them as such owners of the moiety which belonged to their
intestate in his lifetime; and he also alleges that, on the 22d
of October, 1856, he delivered to their attorney two checks
(each for $500), and four promissory notes (each for the
sum of 8500), in payment for the moiety of the property to
which those parties were entitled.
Apart from that, the respondent alleges in his answer that
the premises were heavily incumbered by mortgages; and that
at the time or before the date of the contract for the purchase
of the other moiety it was further agreed, between him and the
owner of the moiety now in question, that he, the respondent,
should purchase the same, in pursuance of the original contract,

WILLIAMS

V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

for the sum of $6,000, and that the grantor should be entitled to
a moiety only of the purchase-money.
Two contracts are, therefore, alleged for the 'sale and purchase of the premises; and it is obvious that they are widely
different in form and substance. As alleged, the first is for
the purchase of the entire lot and tenement; and the second is
for the purchase of the moiety only which belonged to the
complainants' intestate. Under the first contract, the entire
consideration was to be paid to the party contracting to make
the conveyance; but by the terms of the second, one-half only
of the consideration was to be paid to that party for his benefit,
the clear inference being that the purchaser had previously
purchased or contracted to purchase the other moiety of the
heirs of the deceased owner.
Evidence to show that the first contract, if made, was ever
fulfilled, is entirely wanting; nor is there a particle of evidence
that any such contract as the one secondly alleged was ever
made or proposed between the parties. Suppose it were otherwise, and that the parol evidence introduced was sufficient to
show that one or both of the alleged contracts were actually
made in adequate terms and free of ambiguity, still the evidence would not constitute a defence to the suit, for the
reason that the alleged contracts would be within the Statute
of Frauds.
Interests in lands, except leases not exceeding the term of
three years, made or created by livery and seisin only, or by
parol and not put in writing and signed by the parties so
making or creating the same, or their agents thereunto lawfully authorized by writing, shall have the force and effect of
leases or estates at will only; and shall not, either at law or in
equity, be deemed or taken to have any other or greater force
or effect. 1 Kilty's Laws, Md. 242.
No action shall be brought . . . upon any contract or sale
of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or any interest in or
concerning them, . . . unless the agreement upon which such
action shall be brought, or some memorandum or note thereof,
shall be in writing and signed by the party to be charged
therewith, or by some person thereunto lawfully authorized.
Browne, Frauds, 503.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

Argument to show that the respondent did not derive any
valid title to the premises under the tax deeds is unnecessary,
as the amended answer admits that the tax deeds did not convey any title whatever, and the respondent testified to the
same effect. Even if the deeds had been regular, they would
not benefit the respondent; as in that event the legal conclusion would be that the respondent, as the tenant of the lessor,
held the title in trust for his landlord. Bothwell v. Dewees,
2 Black, 613 ; Fan Horne v. Fonda, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 388;
2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1211 a.
Tenants are never allowed to deny the title of their landlord,
nor set up a title against him, acquired by the tenant during
the tenancy, which is hostile in its character to that which he
acknowledged in accepting the demise; the rule being that
whenever the possession is acquired under any species of tenancy, whether the action be assumpsit, debt, covenant, or
ejectment, the tenant is estopped from denying the title of the
landlord. Taylor, Land. and Ten., sects. 629, 705; Jackson v.
Harper,5 Wend. (N. Y.) 246 ; Sharp v. Kelley, 5 Den. (N. Y.)
431 ; Doe v. Sinythe, 4 M. .& S. 347.
Attempt is made to take the case out of the protection of
the Statute of Frauds by the receipts given in evidence; but it
is clear that they fall far short of what is required to accomplish that object. 3 Phil. Evid. (4th Am. ed.) 351; Tallman
v. Franklin., 14 N. Y. 584; -Elmore v. Hingscote, 5 B. & C.
583.
Decided cases everywhere require that the memorandum
should mention the price. Nothing is contained in either
receipt to fulfil that requirement, nor do the receipts contain
any thing of an unambiguous character to enable the court to
determine what real estate is the subject of the purchase.
Part of the property lying west of the tenement, the evidence
shows, was never occupied by the respondent; and the second
receipt, in terms, limits the purchase to the tenement which
the respondent occupied and repaired. None of the terms,
says Mr. Phillips, can be left to be supplied by parol; and, if
not, it is clear that the receipts are not sufficient to support
the theory of the defence. Baptist Churchv. Bigelow, 16 Wend.
(N. Y.) 28; 1lorton v. Dean, 13 Mete. (Mass.) 385.

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ot.

Unless the essential terms of the sale can be ascertained
from the writing itself, or by reference in it to something else,
the writing is not a compliance with the statute; and, if the
agreement be thus defective, it cannot be supplied by parol
proof, for that would at once introduce all the mischiefs which
the statute was intended to prevent. 2 Kent, Com. (12th ed.)
511 ; Morris v. Lain, 16 Johns. (N. Y.) 151; Dung v. Perkins,
52 N. Y. 494 ; Baltzen v. .licolay, 53 id. 467; Wright v. Weeks,
25 id. 153; Parkhurstv. Van (ortlandt, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.
273 ; s. c. 14 id. 15.
An note or memorandum in writing which furnishes evidence of a complete and practicable agreement is sufficient
under the statute, and parol evidence is admissible to explain
latent ambiguities, and to apply the instrument to the subjectmatter. Barry v. Coombe, 1 Pet. 640; Clark v. Burnham,
2 Story, 131; Story, Sales, sect. 257.
Diversity of decision undoubtedly exists; but this court decided, in the case of Purcell v. Miner, 4 Wall. 513, that the
proof as to the terms of the contract must be clear, definite,
and conclusive, and must show a contract, leaving no jus
deliberandi or locus penitentice; that it cannot be made out
by mere hearsay or evidence of the declarations of a party to
mere strangers to the transaction, in chance conversation,
which the witnesses have no reason to recollect from interest
in the subject-matter, and which may have been imperfectly
heard or inaccurately remembered, perverted, or altogether
fabricated; that the proof must also show that the consideration has been paid or tendered, or that there has been such
part performance of the contract that its rescission would be
a fraud on the other party, which could not be compensated
by the recovery of damages; or that the delivery of possession
has been made in pursuance of the contract, and has been
acquiesced in by the other party.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the attempt
to prove a written contract utterly fails, and that there is nc
satisfactory evidence to prove any such part performance of
the supposed contract as will take the case out of the operation
of the statute.
Where the attempt is to take the case out of the statute

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

upon the ground of part performance, the party making the
attempt must show by clear and satisfactory proof the existence of the contract as laid in his pleading, and the act of
part performance must be of the identical contract which he
has in that manner set up and alleged. It is not enough that
the act of part performance is evidence of some agreement; but
it must be unequivocal and satisfactory evidence of the particular agreement charged in the bill or answer. Pldilips
v. Thompson, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 131; Browne, Frauds,
sect. 452.
Specific performance in such a case will not be decreed,
unless the terms of the contract are clearly proved or admitted ;
and a sufficient part performance is made out to show that
fraud and injustice would be done if the contract was held to
be inoperative; and all the authorities agree that the acts of
part performance must be such as are referable to the contract
as alleged, and consistent with it. Woodfall, Land. and Ten.
(9th ed.) 942; Price v. Salusbur1 , 32 Beav. 446; Tompkinson
v. Straihtt, 17 C. B. 697.
Nothing is part performance for this purpose which is only
ancillary or preparatory: it must be a direct act which is intended to be a substantial part performance of an obligation
created by the contract as proved; and it must be an act which
would not have been done but for the contract; and it must be
directly in prejudice of the party doing the act, who must himself be the party calling for the completion of the contract.
Jones v. Peternan,8 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 543 ; 31orphett v. Jones,
1 Swans. 172; Ex parte Hooper, 19 Ves. 477; Pramne v. Daw
son, 14 id. 385; Buckrnaster v. Harrop, 7 id. 341; 3 Pars.
Contr. (6th ed.) 60.
Where one of the two contracting parties has been induced
or allowed to alter his position on the faith of such contract,
to such an extent that it would be fraud on the part of the
other party to set up its invalidity, courts of equity hold that
the clear proof of the contract and of the acts of part performance will take the case out of the operation of the statute, if
the acts of part performance were clearly such as to show that
they are properly referable to the parol agreement. Chitty,
Contr. (10th ed.) 66, 278; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 761.

458

WILLIAMS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Courts of equity sometimes, in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, follow by analogy the statute of limitations which govern
courts of law in like cases; but there is nothing in the facts
of the case before the court to bring it within the operation of
that rule.
Beyond all question, the fee-simple title of the property was
in the original lessor; and it is equally clear that the respondent entered into the possession of the premises as the tenant
of the lessor, under an agreement to pay a stipulated rent, and
the record shows that he continued to hold possession of the
same until the time of his decease, or until he rented the same
to the United States; nor does the fact that he, subsequently
to the entry, denied the title of his landlord, have any just
influence to support the defence of limitation or laches, inasmuch as the case shows that he did so without any just cause
or legal excuse. Authorities to support that proposition are
quite unnecessary, as to hold otherwise would be to sanction
injustice and encourage fraud.
From these suggestions it follows that the decree in the
court of original jurisdiction was correct; but inasmuch as the
account was not taken, Nellis v. Lathrop, 22 Wend. (N. Y.)
121, the decree rendered at the general term will be reversed
and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a decree for
the complainants for further proceedings in conformity to the
opinion of this court; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JusT Ic

FIELD and MR. Justice BRADLFY dissented.

