Oct. 1877.]

PRATT v. RAILWAY CO.

PRATT v. RAILwAY ComPANY.
1. The liability of an intermediate common carrier for the safety of goods delivered to him for carriage is discharged by their delivery to and acceptance
by a succeeding carrier or his authorized agent.
2. If there is an agreement between two persons, occupying the relative positions
of intermediate and succeeding carrier, that property intended for transportation by the latter may be deposited at a particular place without express
notice to him, such deposit amounts to notice, and is a delivery.
3. The acceptance by the succeeding carrier is complete and his liability fixed
whenever the property thus, with his assent, comes into his possession.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. William Tennison for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Isaac P. Christiancy,contra.
MR. JUSTICE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The Grand Trunk Railway Company is engaged as a common carrier in the transportation of persons and property. This
action seeks to recover damages for a violation of its duty in
respect to certain merchandise shipped from Liverpool to St.
Louis, and carried over its road from Montreal to Detroit. The
goods reached the city of Detroit on the 17th of October, 1865,
and on the night of the 18th of the same month were destroyed
by fire.
The defendant claims to have made a complete delivery of
the goods to the Michigan Central Railroad Company, a succeeding carrier, and thus to have discharged itself from liability
before the occurrence of the fire.
If the liability of the succeeding carrier had attached, the
liability of the defendant was discharged. Ransom v. Holland,
59 N. Y. 611; O'NYeil v. .N. Y. Central Railroad Co., 60 id. 138.
The question, therefore, is, Had the duty of the succeeding
carrier commenced when the goods were burned?
The liability of a carrier commences when the goods are
delivered to him or his authorized agent for transportation, and
Rogers v. Wheeler, 52 N. Y. 262; Grosvenor
are accepted.
v. N. Y. Central Railroad Co., 59 id. 34.

PRATT v. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. or.

If a common carrier agrees that property intended for transportation by him may be deposited at a particular place without
express notice to him, such deposit amounts to notice, and is a
delivery. Merriam v. Har ford Railroad Co., 24 Conn. 354;
Converse v. N. & N. Y Tr. Co., 33 id. 166.
The liability of the carrier is fixed by accepting the property
to be transported, and the acceptance is complete whenever the
property thus comes into his possession with his assent. .llinois Railroad Co. v. Smyser, 38 Ill. 354.
If the deposit of the goods is a mere accessory to the carriage,
that is, if they are deposited for the purpose of being carried
without further orders, the responsibility of the carrier begins
from the time they are received; but, when they are subject to
the further order of the owner, the case is otherwise. Ladere
v. Griffith, 25 N. Y. 364; Blossom v. Griffin, 13 id. 569;
Wade v. Wheeler, 47 id. 658; Michigan Railroad -. Schurlz,
7 Mich. 515.
The same proposition is stated in a different form when it is
said that the liability of a carrier is discharged by a delivery of
the goods. If he is an intermediate carrier, this duty is performed by a delivery to the succeeding carrier for further
transportation, and an acceptance by him. Auth. supra.
The precise facts upon which the question here arises are as
follows:

-

At the time the fire occurred, the defendant had no freight
room or depot at Detroit, except a single apartment in the
freight-depot of the Michigan Central Railroad Company.
Said depot was a building several hundred feet in length, and
some three or four hundred feet in width, and was all under
one roof. It was divided into sections or apartments, without
any partition-wall between them. There was a railway track in
the centre of the building, upon which cars were run into the
building to be loaded with freight. The only use which the
defendant had of said section was for the deposit of all goods
and property which came over its road, or was delivered for
shipment over it. This section, in common with the rest of
the building, was under, the control and supervision of the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, as hereinafter mentioned.
The defendant employed in this section two men, who checked

Oct. 1877.]

PRA.T

v. RAILWAY Co.

freight which came into it. All freight which came into the
section was handled exclusively by the employds of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, for which, as well as for the
use of said section, said defendant paid said company a fixed
compensation per hundred-weight. Goods which came into
the section from defendant's road, destined over the road of the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, were, at the time of
unloading from defendant's cars, deposited by said employ6s of
the 'Michigan Central Railroad Company in a certain place in
said section, from which they were loaded into the cars of said
latter company by said employ6s when they were ready to receive them; and, after they were so placed, the defendant's
employgs did not further handle said goods. Whenever the
agent of the Michigan Central Railroad Company would see
any goods deposited in the section of said freight-building set
apart for the use of the defendant, destined over the line of
said Central Railroad, he would call upon the agent of the defendant in said freight-building, and, from a way-bill exhibited
to him by said agent, he would take a list of said goods, and
would then, also, for the first time, learn their ultimate place
of destination, together with the amount of freight-charges due
thereon; that, from the information thus obtained from said
way-bill in the hands of the defendant's agent, a way-bill
would be made out by the Michigan Central Railroad Company
for the transportation of said goods over its line of railway, and
not before.
These goods were, on the 17th of October, 1865, taken from
the cars and deposited in the apartment of said building used
as aforesaid by the defendant, in the place assigned as aforesaid for goods so destined.
At the time the goods in question were forwarded from
Monfteal, in accordance with the usage in such cases, a waybill was then made out in duplicate, on which was entered a
list of said goods, the names of the consignees, the place to
which the goods were consigned, and the amount of charges
against them from Liverpool to Detroit. One of these waybills was given to the conductor who had charge of the train
containing the goods, and the other was forwarded to the agent
of the defendant in Detroit. On arrival of the goods at Detroit,

PRATT

v.

RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ot.

the conductor delivered his copy of said way-bill to the checking-clerk of defendant in said section, from which said clerk
checked said goods from the cars into said section. It was the
practice of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, before
forwarding such goods, to take from said way-bill in the custody
of said checking-clerk, in the manner aforesaid, the place ol
destination and a list of said goods and the amount of accumulated charges, and to collect the same, together with its own
charges, of the connecting carrier.
We are all of the opinion that these acts constituted a corn
plete delivery of the goods to the Michigan Central Company,
by which the liability 'of the Grand Trunk Company was
terminated.
1. They were placed within the control of the agents of the
Michigan Company.
2. They were deposited by the one party and received by the
other for transportation, the deposit being an accessory merely
to such transportation.
3. No further orders or directions from the Grand Trunk
Company were expected by the receiving party. Except
for the occurrence of the fire, the goods would have been
loaded into the cars of the Michigan Central Company, and
forwarded, without further action. of the Grand Trunk Company.
4. Under the arrangement between the parties, the presence of
the goods in the precise locality agreed upon, and the marks
upon them, "1P. & F., St. Louis," were sufficient notice that
they were there for transportation over the Michigan road
towards the city of St. Louis; and such was the understanding
of both parties.
The cases heretofore cited in 20 Conn. 354, and 33 id. 166,
are strong authorities upon the point last stated.
In the latter case, a railroad company and a steamboat company had a covered wharf in common, at their common terminus, used as a depot and a wharf ; and it was the established
usage for the steamboat company to land goods for the railroad, on the arrival of its boats in the night, upon a particular
place in the depot, whence they were taken by the railroad
company, at its convenience, for further transportation, both

Oct. 1877.]

PRATT V. RAILWAY

Oo.

companies having equal possession of the depot. 'T'here was
no evidence of an actual agreement that the goods deposited
were in the possession of the railroad company, and the goods
in question had not been in the manual possession of the railroad company when they were destroyed by fire on the Sunday
afternoon following their deposit on the previous night. It
was held that there was a tacit understanding that the steamboat company should deposit their freight at that particular
spot, and that the railroad should take it thence at their convenience. The delivery to the succeeding carrier was held to be
complete, and a recovery against the first carrier for the loss of
the goods was reversed.
In _erriam v. HUartford Railroad Co., supra, it was held that
if a common carrier agree that property intended for transportation by him may be deposited at a particular place without express notice to him, such deposit alone is a sufficient
delivery; and that such an agreement may be shown by a constant practice and usage so to receive property without special
notice.
The plaintiff contends that the goods were not in the custody
and under the control of the Michigan road, for the reason that
the case states that they "are in a section of the freight-depot
set apart for the use of the defendant." This is not an accurate statement of the position. The expression quoted is used
incidentally in stating that, when the agent of the Michigan road
saw "goods deposited in the section of the freight-building set
apart for the use of the defendant, destined on the line of said
Central railroad, he would call upon the agent of defendant,
and, from a way-bill," obtain a list of the goods, and their destination. Just how and in what manner it was thus set apart
appears from the facts already recited. It was a portion of the
freight-house of the Alichigan Company, in which a precise spot
was selected or set apart, where the defendant might deposit
goods brought on its road and intended for transportation over
the Mlichigan road, and which, by usage and practice and the
expectation of the parties, were then under the control of the
Michigan Company, and to be loaded on to its cars at its convenience, without farther orders from the defendant.
We are of the opinion that the ruling and direction of the

HATCH V. CODDINGTON.

[Sup. Ot.

circuit judge, that upon the facts stated the defendant was
entitled to a verdict and judgment in its favor, was correct,
and the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

HATCH V.

CODDINGTOI.

1. A general power conferred upon the agent of a railroad company to borrow
money on its behalf, in such sums, for such length of time, and at such a rate
of interest as lie may think proper, and to purchase iron rails, locomotives,
machinery, &c., on such terms as he may deem advisable, and, in order so
to do, to make, execute, and deliver obligations, bills of exchange, contracts,
and agreements of the company, includes authority to give to the lender of
the money borrowed, or to the seller of the things purchased, the ordinary
securities.
2. Persons who deal with an agent before notice of the recall of his powers are
not affected by the recall.
8. Upon consideration of the'written evidence in this case, the court holds, 1. That
the contract entered into April 21, 1859, between the defendant and the
Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, by Edmund Rice, its president,
was authorized by the resolution of the board of directors of that company,
passed July 13, 1858. 2. That the resolution of said board, passed May 13,
1859, was an acknowledgment that the contract was a binding obligation
upon the company.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This action was trover by Edwin A. C. Hatch against Thomas
B. Coddington for the conversion of forty-five Minnesota State
bonds. Each party claimed them under the Mlinnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, to whom they had, on the 3d of February, 1859, been issued by the State, under a provision of its
Constitution authorizing the issue of such bonds for the purpose

of expediting the construction of certain railroads.

The plaintiff claimed title by the following transfers, both
dated May 13, 1859:"For value received, we, the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Coinpany, hereby sell, assign, transfer, and set over to Selah Chamberlain
and his assigns forty-five bonds for $1,000 each, issued by the State
of Minnesota to us, and now in the hands of Thomas B. Coddington
& Co., of the city of New York, and authorize and empower him
to have and receive the same.

