OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

Georgia.' That measure reasonably may be deemed essential to that form of levy. Imposition without enforcement would be futile. Power to levy and power to collect are equally necessary. And, by the exaction of payment before registration, the right to vote is neither
denied nor abridged on account of sex. It is fanciful to
suggest that the Georgia law is a mere disguise under
which to deny or abridge the right of men to vote on
account. of their sex. The challenged enactment is not
repugnant to the Nineteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.
TEXAS
CERTIORARI

ET AL.

v.

DONOGHUE, TRUSTEE.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28.

Argued November 10, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

Held, that the bankruptcy court, in a proceeding under § 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act, abused its discretion in denying a State permission to institute proceedings in a state court to have adjudged
confiscate a quantity of oil, then in the possession of the trustee
of the debtor, but claimed by the State to have become its property
through statutory forfeiture when, prior to the approval of the
debtor's petition, it was produced or transported in alleged violation of the conservation laws of the State. P. 289.
Possession had been voluntarily surrendered to the bankruptcy
court by receivers appointed by a state court in other proceedings
brought by the State.
88 F. (2d) 48, reversed.

301 U. S. 674, to review a judgment affirmorders of the District Court in a proceeding under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
CERTIORARI,

ing

Messrs. William C. Davis and W. J. Holt, Assistant
Attorneys General of Texas, with whom Messrs. William
McCraw, Attorney General of Texas, Charles M.
' Constitution of 1798, Art. IV, § 1 (2 Thurpe, Federal and State
Constitutions, p. 800). Act of Dec. 12, 1804 (Cobb, New Digest Laws
of Georgia, p. 1044).

TEXAS v. DONOGHUE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

Kennedy, Earl Street, and Win. Madden Hill, Assistant
Attorneys General of Texas, were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. William B. Harrell and Robert W. Kellough
for respondent.
MR. JuSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ is limited to the questions raised on the application of Texas to the United States court for the
northern district of that State in a proceeding under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act I for permission to institute
proceedings in a state court for the confiscation of oil
held by the trustee but claimed by the State as "unlawful oil" because produced or transported in violation of
state conservation measures.
Texas statutes 2 and orders of its Railroad Commission
purport to prorate production of crude oil, to prohibit
purchase, transportation or handling of that produced in
whole or in part in excess of the amount allowed,8 to impose fines and penalties for violations,' and to make oil
produced or transported in violation of statute or order
subject to confiscation in an action brought by the State
for that purpose.' The statute declares that if at the
"11 U. S. C., § 207.

"Texas Revised Civil Statutes, 1925, Title 102.
'Art. 6049e, § 10.
'Art. 6036.
' Art. 6066 (a), § 10:
(a) "All unlawful oil .

.

. [is] hereby declared to be a nuisance and

shall be forfeited to the State as hereinafter provided ...
(b) "When the Attorney General is advised from any source of the
presence and existence of unlawful oil . . . it shall be his duty to institute a suit in rem against such unlawful oil . . . and against all
persons owning, claiming or in possession thereof, such suit to be
brought in the name of the State . .. .'in any court of competent
jurisdiction in Travis County or in the county in which such oil . . .

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

trial it shall be found that the oil is unlawful, the court
shall render judgment forfeiting the same to the State
and authorizing an order directed to sheriff or constable
commanding him "to seize and sell" the condemned oil.
Costs of suit and expenses of the sale are to be paid out
of money received from the oil, and the balance becomes
part 6f the general revenue fund of the State.
There is before us no question as to validity of the
State's measures to regulate production, or as to when,
if ever, the oil in controversy became forfeit.' The sole
issue is whether the bankruptcy court should have permitted the State to bring suit in a state court to have the
oil adjudged confiscate.
These are the facts.
Texas sued the Trinity Refining Company in the district court, 126th judicial district, Travis county, to recover fines and penalties for violation of the conservation
is located. If it shall appear to the court . ..that unlawful oil . ..
mentioned in the petition . . . [is] in danger of being removed,
wasted, lost or destroyed, the court is authorized and required . ..to
issue restraining orders or injunctive relief .. .or to appoint a receiver to take charge of the oil . ..in question, or to direct the sheriff
of the county . . . to seize and impound the same until further
orders of the court."
(c) " . . . If, upon the trial of such suit the oil .. .in controversy is found to be unlawful . . .then the court .. .shall render
judgment forfeiting the same to the State . ..and authorizing the
issuance of an order of sale directed to the sheriff or any constable
of the county where the oil or products are located commanding such
officer to seize and sell said property in the same manner as personal
property is sold under execution .. .The money realized from the
sale . ..shall be applied, first, to the payment of the costs of suit
and expenses incident to the sale . . .and all funds then remaining,
shall be . ..placed to the credit of the General Revenue Fund of
the State. ..."
' United States v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch 398. See also Clark
v. ProtectionInsurance Co., 1 Story (C. C.) 109, 134; Fed. Gas. No.
2832.

TEXAS v. DONOGHUE.
284

287

Opinion of the Court.

laws. The court appointed Clopton and Hyder receivers
of defendant's property pending the trial of the case.
They took possession of property claimed by the defendant, including a large quantity of oil which the State
insists had already become its property because unlawfully produced or transported. Later, the State sued the
company in the district court, 98th judicial district of the
same county, to recover delinquent taxes. That suit having been transferred to the district in which the first was
pending, the court there appointed as receivers in the
second case the same persons it had appointed in the
first one.
Within four months after commencement of the first
suit, the company filed its petition in the United States
district court, submitting a plan of reorganization. The
court found the petition to have been presented in good
faith, approved it as properly filed, appointed Donoghue
trustee of the debtor, directed him to take possession of
its property, ordered that all persons having property of
the debtor deliver it to him and issued in usual form a
restraining order preventing interference with his possession or control. The trustee took from the receivers
property claimed by the debtor including the oil in question, approximately 77,000 barrels. Texas applied to the
bankruptcy court for permission to bring suit in a state
court to obtain judgment of confiscation .against that oil.
The court withheld consent and directed the trustee to
retain the oil. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained
that ruling, 88 F. (2d) 48, 51, and to review its judgment
upon that issue, we brought the case here. 301 U. S.
674.1
'Later, no plan of reorganization having been adopted, the bankruptcy court ordered liquidation of the debtor's property under
subds. (c) (8) and (k) of § 77 B. Donoghue was appointed trustee
in bankruptcy. § 44; 11 U. S. C., § 72. This Court substituted
him in that capacity. as respondent in place of himself as trustee of
the debtor.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

.The State's right to bring the suit in the state court
is the same as if on its voluntary petition the company
had been adjudged bankrupt o'- the day its petition for
reorganization was approved. § 77B (o). Forfeiture of
unlawful oil under Texas law is a penalty imposed to
vindicate the State's policy of conservation. Champlin.
Rfg. Co. v. CorporationCommission, 286 U. S. 210, 240241. The bankruptcy court exercises jurisdiction under
sovereignty that is independent of and foreign to that of
Texas. Moore v. Mitchell, 281 U. S. 18, 23. It is without
power to enforce penalties imposed by the State for
violation of its laws. The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66, 123.
Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289, et seq.
Cf. § 57 (j), Bankruptcy Act; 8 New York v. Jersawit,
263 U. S. 493, 496; United States v. Childs, 266 U. S.
304, 309-310. The State's insistence is not that it is
presently entitled to establish a right to forfeit the oil,
but that the oil became its property when produced or
transported contrary to law. -It seeks not to forfeit
but to enforce the forfeiture that resulted, as it maintains, immediately from unlawful production or transportation.
Possession or control of the oil by the state coi.rt is
not essential to its jurisdiction to entertain the suit proposed to be brought.' Texas does not claim to be entitled
to possession of the oil until final adjudication in the state
court. Retention by the trustee is not inconsistent with
the maintenance of that suit. He is entitled there to be
heard in support of his claim to the oil. If when the
debtor's petition was approved the oil did not belong to
Texas, the State was not entitled to have it withheld from
the truistee. But, if by reason of unlawful production or
transportation, the oil had already by forfeiture become
811

U. S. C., § 93 (j).

'Art. 6066a, §§ 10 (b) and (c).

TEXAS v. DONOGHUE.
284

CARwzo, J., dissenting.

the property of the State, the trustee was not entitled
to take or retain it. If in a suit brought by Texas in a
state court it should be determined that title to the oil
had vested in the State before approval of the debtor's
petition, the bankruptcy court doubtlessly will recognize
that title and direct the trustee to hand over the oil or
account for it to the State. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch
241, 268. Hudson v. Guestier, 4 Cranch 293, 297. See
Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., supra, 291.
The filing of the petition for reorganization in the
bankruptcy court may not be held to deprive the State
of opportunity in its own court to establish its claim that
through forfeiture it had already become the owner of
the oil for that would be to take the State's property
for the benefit of the offending company or its creditors.
Nor may the receivers' voluntary surrender of possession to
the debtor's trustee prevent adjudication of the State's
claim. The bankruptcy court abused its discretion in
denying the State's application for permission to institute proceedings in the state court and, to the extent
that the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained that ruling,
its judgment must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo, dissenting.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
Texas was not the owner of the oil in controversy when
it came into the possession of the court of bankruptcy. If
she had been such an owner, she could be heard in that
court pro interesse suo, vindicating her title in reclamation proceedings like any other adverse claimant. By
common consent ownership sufficient for such relief was
not hers when the court of bankruptcy took the oil into
its custody, and is not hers today. "It is not correct to
say, that property forfeited is vested in the government

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
CAiwozo, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

at the very moment of forfeiture, and the title of the
owner. immediately devested. On the contrary, the established doctrine is, that, notwithstanding the forfeiture,
the property remains in the owner, until it is actually
seized by the government, and then by the seizure the
title of the government relates back to the time of the
forfeiture." Clark v. Protection Insurance Co., 1 Story
109, 134; cf. United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1. So far
as I am aware there is no contention to the contrary.
The oil "shall be forfeited to the State as hereinafter
provided" (Texas Revised Civil Statutes, Art. 6066a,
§ 10), and not otherwise. The statute does not mean-that
without the aid of any judgment title is transferred at
once on the commission of the offense. The judgment is
to be in rem and imports control over the res. Pennoyer
v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 734; Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & T. Co.,
282 U. S.734.
With the oil in the possession of the federal court of
bankruptcy-a possession lawfully acquired-leave to sue
in the state court for a decree of forfeiture and sale will
be an idle and empty form, productive of nothing except
delay and vain expense, unless upon the pronouncement
of the decree it will be the duty of the court of bankruptcy to surrender the oil to the court of another jurisdiction, and this for the sole purpose of making a forfeiture effective. I deny that any such duty will exist.
Cf. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & T. Co., supra. I find no intimation of its existence in any case till this one. Certainly there is none in the cases now cited in the opinion
of the court. True indeed it is that if possession of the
res were to be acquired by the Texas court at the time of
the decree of forfeiture or even at the time of a sale pursuant thereto, a title obtained thereunder would be recognized as valid everywhere. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins.
Co., 127 U. S.265, 291; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch 241;
Hudson v. Guestier, 4 Cranch 293; Dicey, Conflict of

TEXAS v. DONOGHUE.
284

CARDOzo, J., dissenting.

Laws, 5th ed., pp. 484, 485. This is far from saying that
a court of another jurisdiction which already holds the
res upon a trust for general creditors will give its possession up in aid of a forfeiture otherwise impossible. "The
courts of no country execute the penal laws of another."
The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66, 123; Gwin v. Breedlove, 2
How. 29, 37; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., supra; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 666; Loucks v. Standard
Oil Co., 224 N. Y. 99, 102; Dicey, supra, p. 212. Cf.
Bankruptcy Act, § 57 (j). Within the purview of that
doctrine, the state and the federal courts are ranked as
courts of separate sovereignties, quite as much as the
courts of different states. Gwin v. Breedlove, supra;"
Moore v. Mitchell, 281 U. S. 18, 23. If the oil in controversy had been removed to California and were in
possession of the receivers of a California corporation
after a decree of dissolution, would any one contend that
the California court would order its receivers to return
the property to Texas for the purpose by such return of
making a forfeiture effective? A federal court of bankruptcy is subject to no greater duty. The prevailing
opinion commits us to a holding that property in one
jurisdiction may be diverted from the use of creditors and
made to feed a forfeiture in another jurisdiction, a forfeiture brutum fulmen unless thus aided from afar. If
that is done, the efficacy of penal laws will have taken
on a new extension. Without a transfer of possession
the forfeiture is dead at birth. A court of bankruptcy
will not stir a hand to make it viable.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE STONE joins
in this opinion.

