MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING.

609

Syllabus.

583

the adjournment. This usage parallels that in the clause
requiring the publication of the journals of both houses
"excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require
Secrecy." In both instances the significant action, adjournment or the exercise of judgment as the case may
be, is that of those members whose action is effective to
accomplish the contemplated result-there, prohibition
of publication; here, prevention of return to the originating house. Thus read, no word is without appropriate
meaning and the clause is consistent both with the obvious purpose and with the grammatical usage appearing
elsewhere in the Constitution.
I cannot ignore that purpose and say that for no discernible reason other than our present-day notions of
grammatical construction we are compelled to read the
words as excluding from the operation of the clauses
designed to protect the veto power, every case where
the return of a bill is prevented by adjournment of a
single house.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 106.

Argued December 16, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

Money received by a corporation by exchange in a reorganization
and turned over to its- stockholders proportionally in pursuance of
the plan of reorganization and subject to their agreement to assume and pay off indebtedness of the corporation of the same
amount, which they thereupon fulfilled, was not distributed,within
the meaning of ยง 112 (d) (1) and (2) of the Revenue Act of 1928,
and the gain included was therefore taxable to the corporation.
P. 612.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

In purpose and effect, the transaction was to pay the corporation's
debts, using the stockholders as a conduit.
89 F. (2d) 711, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 665, to review a decree reversing a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 34 B. T. A. 145,
overruling an income tax assessment. See s. c. 296 U. S.
378.
Mr. James G. Nye for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, Messrs. Sewall
Key and Maurice J. Mahoney were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE SUTHERL'AND

delivered the opinion of the

Petitioner, in 1928, brought about the organization of
the Peterson Investment Company, and transferred to it
certain assets in exchange for the entire capital stock of
that company. The stock was immediately distributed
to petitioner's stockholders. Soon thereafter, petitioner
transferred its remaining assets to Grand Union Company in exchange for 18,000 shares of that company's
stock and $426,842.52 in cash. The cash was immediately
transferred to and divided among petitioner's stockholders, in proportion to their stock holdings, in pursuance of
a plan of reorganization. .The Board of Tax Appeals,
upon its first consideration of the case, held that no reorganization had been effected under ยง 112 (i) (1) (B)
of the Revenue Act of 1928. 28 B. T. A. 591. The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded otherwise, reversed the
Board, and remanded the case to the Board for further
consideration. 76 F. (2d) 797. Upon review, pursuant
to a writ of certiorari, we affirmed the judgment of the

MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING.
609

611

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals. Helvering v. Minnesota Tea
Co., 296 U. S. 378.
Upon the remand, the Board, after consideration, refused to follow the ruling of the commissioner that
$106,471.73 of the $426,842.52 constituted taxable assets
in the hands of petitioner. 34 B. T. A. 145. The court
below, reversing the action of the Board, sustained the
view of the commissioner, 89 F. (2d) 711; and the case
again comes here upon writ of certiorari.
The facts are not in dispute. In addition to those
already stated, it appears that immediately before the receipt by petitioner of the $426,842.52, its stockholders, at
a special meeting, adopted the following resolution:
"Resolved further that all moneys received by Minnesota Tea Company on such sale of its assets and in consideration thereof, whenever received, shall be immediately distributed to the stockholders of Minnesota Tea
Company ratably and in the proportion of their respective stockholdings in Minnesota Tea Company upon the
assumption by the stockholders of all the corporate debts
of Minnesota Tea Company in order to enable the company to hold all the corporate stock or securities received
by it for its assets on such sale thereof without being compelled to sell any part of the same, and the Board of Directors are hereby authorized and directed to so distribute
the said moneys as aforesaid and in behalf of the company
enter into a written agreement with the stockholders,
signed and executed by the company and all the stockholders whereby said stockholders, in consideration of
such distribution and for the purpose of enabling the company to continue to hold the said corporate stock and
securities without being compelled to sell any part thereof
for the payment of existing debts, agree to pay all the
corporate debts of the Minnesota Tea Company whether
due and payable or not and whether certain or contingent."

.612

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

When the cash was "distributed," petitioner's debts
amounted to $106,471.73, about $6,500 of which was
owing to the stockholders themselves. In pursuance of
the resolution, the stockholders paid all the debts, retaining sums, aggregating about $6,500, necessary to discharge the amount of petitioner's indebtedness to them.
The question for determination is whether the delivery
of the $106,471.73 by petitioner to the stockholders, an
equal sum thereafter being applied by them to the payment of petitioner's debts in pursuance of the resolution,
constituted a distribution within the meaning of the provisions of ยง 112 (d) (1) and (2) of the Revenue Act of
1928, copied in the margin."
These provisions plainly establish that, in respect of
any cash received and not "distributed," there was a
taxable gain to petitioner. And, quite as plainly, payment of the debts by petitioner, if made directly by petitioner to the creditors, would not have been a distribution
under the statute; for that contemplates a distribution
to stockholders, and not payment to creditors. If, then,
petitioner had followed the simple course of retaining in
its own hands the sum here in question, and subsequently
paying it directly to the creditors, it necessarily would
I "(d) Same-gain of corporation.-If an exchange would be
within the provisions of subsection (b) (4) of this section if it were
not for the fact that the property received in exchange consists not
only of stock or securities permitted by such paragraph to be
received without the recognition of gain, but also of other property
or money, then"(1) If the corporation receiving such other property or money
distributes it in purspance of the plan of reorganization, no gain to
the corporation shall be recognized from the exchange, but
"(2) If the corporation receiving such other property or money
does not distribute it in pursuance of the plan of reorganization, the
gain, if any, to the corporation shall be recognized, but in an amount
not in excess of the sum of such money and the fair market value
of such other property so received, which is not so distributed."

MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING.
609

613

Opinion of the Court.

result that liability of petitioner for a tax on the amount
of gain could not be avoided. And, obviously, this is the
effect of what was done, although circuitously.
The money was received by petitioner and was available for the payment of its debts. It was put into the
hands of the stockholders upon the express understanding, jas shown by the resolution heretofore quoted, that
they would assume all the corporate debts of petitioner,
and would enter into a written agreement with petitioner
"whereby said stockholders, in consideration of such distribution and for the purpose of enabling the company
to continue to hold" the corporate stock and securities
which it had received in the reorganization "without being compelled to sell any part thereof for the payment of
existing debts, agree to pay all the corporate debts of the
Minnesota Tea Company . . .
In pursuance of the resolution, the stockholders received the money from petitioner to the extent of $106,471.73, not as a distribution for their benefit but as a fund
the equivalent of which they were bound to pass on, and
did pass on, to the creditors. The conclusion is inescapable, as the court below very clearly pointed out, that by
this roundabout process petitioner received the same
benefit "as though it had retained that amount from
distribution and applied it to the payment of such indebtedness." Payment of indebtedness, and not distribution of dividends, was, from the beginning, the aim of
the understanding with the stockholders and was the end
accomplished by carrying that understanding into effect.
A given result at the end of a straight path is not made a
different result because reached by following a devious
path. The preliminary distribution to the stockholders
was a meaningless and unnecessary incident- in the transmission of the fund to the creditors, all along intended to
come to their hands, so transparently artificial that further discussion would be a needless waste of time. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

relation of the stockholders to the matter was that of a
mere conduit. The controlling principle will be found
in Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465, 469-470; and applying that principle here, the judgment of the court
below is
.Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
OCEAN BEACH HEIGHTS, INC., ET AL. v. BROWNCRUMMER INVESTMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI

No. 10.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Argued December 8, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. In the absence of a law authorizing the creation of a municipality
de jure there can be none de facto. P. 619.
2. Acting under a Florida statute granting no authority to include
non-contiguous areas, electors residing on the west side of a bay
incorporated a town with boundaries described as embracing also
land on the east side. Holders of bonds thereafter issued by the
town and defaulted, sought, by litigation in the federal court against
the town and east side land owners, to require a tax levy on all
of the lands, to provide payment. Held:
(1) Under the statute the town had acquired no jurisdiction,
de jure or de facto, over the east side lands. P. 619.
(2) Acquiescence by owners of east side land in earlier attempted
exercises of jurisdiction over them upon the part of the town authorities, including taxation, could not invest the town with de facto
jurisdiction. Id.
(3) The bill should be dismissed. P. 620.
87 F. (2d) 978, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 673, to review the affirmance of a
decree granting an injunction to restrain interference with

the levy of a town tax on land for the payment of the

plaintiffs' bonds. See also 69 F. (2d) 105; 11 F. Supp. 73.

