556

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

161 Fed. 88. In the meantime, Congress has left the
statute in its original form. The government did not see
fit to ask review of the Krakowski case, but has apparently acquiesced in it for all those years. This court
should not be expected to disregard the established rules
of statutory construction in order to remedy a situation
which Congress could have cured, and may still cure,
by a simple act of legislation. We think the well-reasoned opinion of the court below should be accepted and
its judgment affirmed.
LANASA FRUIT STEAMSHIP & IMPORTING CO. v.
UNIVERSAL INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

FOR THE

Argued December 10, 1937.-Decided January 10, 1938.

1. In deciding this case concerning the liability of an insurer for loss
of a cargo of fruit, both courts below assumed that the fruit was
in sound condition when shipped and would have been merchantable at the end of the voyage had it not been for the stranding of
the ship and consequent delay. Held that this Court, in reviewing
the question decided, will make the same assumptions. P. 559.
2. Application of a general coverage clause of a marine insurance
policy held unaffected by a rider attached for an additional
premium, after the policy had been long in effect, but canceled
before the occurrence of the loss. P. 560.
The rider covered losses not embraced in the marine perils
against which the policy insured and it also covered losses which
were already covered by the policy, and there was room for difference of opinion as to exactly how far the rider overlapped.
3. Stranding of the ship is a peril of the sea. P. 561.
4. The doctrine of proximate cause is applied strictly in marine insurance cases. P. 562.
5. A vessel carrying a cargo of bananas stranded en voyage. The
stranding caused delay, with the result that the fruit, which was
sound when shipped and, but for the delay, would have been

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 557
Opinion of the Court.

556

marketable upon arrival at destination, was spoiled by decay-a
total loss. Held that the stranding was the proximate cause of the
loss, and that the loss was covered by insurance against perils of
the sea. P. t62.
6. In marine insurance cases, the proximate cause of loss is the efficient cause, not necessarily that cause, in a chain or series, which
was nearest in time to the event. P. 562.
89 F. (2d) 545, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 664, to review the affirmance of a
judgment in favor of the respondent Insurance Company,
in an action on a policy of marine insurance. The case
had been removed to the District Court from the Court
of Common Pleas of Baltimore City.

Messrs. George Forbes and Henry L. Wortche for
petitioner.
Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Messrs. Frank B.
Ober and Martin Detels were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This action was brought upon a policy of marine insurance. Judgment for respondent was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 89 F. (2d) 545, and certiorari was
granted.
Petitioner was the owner of a cargo of bananas aboard
the Norwegian steamship "Smaragd." While proceeding
up Chesapeake Bay to Baltimore on July 21, 1935, the
vessel stranded and before she could be floated the entire
cargo of bananas became overripe and rotted causing a
total loss. Petitioner held a floating policy of insurance
which had been issued by respondent on June 23, 1933.
The general coverage clause of the policy embraced perils
of the sea.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

To the declaration setting forth these facts and claiming that the loss was within the coverage of the policy,
respondent filed four pleas, the first two pleading the general issue and the two others being special pleas. Petitioner joined issue on the first and secornd pleas and deinurred to the third and fourth. The District Court overruled the demurrer to the third plea and, as that decision
was considered by the parties and the court to be=conclusive of the issue, final judgment was entered for respondent.
The third plea, thus sustained, set forth a rider which,
for an additional premium, had been added to the policy
on April 4, 1934, and had been canceled on January 25,
1935, before the loss occurred. The rider amended the
policy so as to provide that the coverage should be "free
of particular average unless the vessel be stranded, sunk,
burned, on fire or in collision, in any, all or several of
which events the insurers are liable for such loss by decay,
injury or damage to the fruit as is occasioned thereby or
occurs during or in consequence of delay resulting therefrom." The insurers also assumed liability for such loss in
consequence of delay resulting from breakage of shaft,
loss of blades from propeller, and derangement or breakage of machinery or rudder and/or stern post, "whether
or not the vessel be stranded, sunk, burned or in collision" provided that the loss amounted to ten per cent.
after deducting five per cent. for ordinary loss.
On the cancellation of the rider it was agreed that the
policy should have the same coverage as prior thereto,
and the premium rate was reduced from 60 cents to the
original rate of 25 cents on the $100 of risk. 89 F. (2d) p.
546.
In affirming the judgment, the Circuit Court of Appeals
observed that the judgment had been entered upon the
pleadings and that petitioner had conceded that its right
to recover depended upon the construction of the policy.

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 559
556

1

Opinion of the Court.

'89 F. (2d) pp. 545, 546. The appellate court then examined the policy and after a review of authorities in this
country and in England held that the loss was not within
the general coverage clause relating to perils of the sea.
The court in concluding its opinion referred to the rider
as showing that the parties had interpreted that clause in
the same way. Id., p. 549. We granted certiorari because of the importance of the principal question thus
determined by the Court of Appeals, a question which had
not been decided by this Court and as to which the decisions of other courts were said to be in conflict.
We are met by two preliminary questions. The first of
these is with respect to the sufficiency of the declaration.
It is suggested that the declaration does not allege that
the bananas were shipped in sound condition and that
they would have been merchantable at the end of a normal voyage, and that there is no allegation as to the duration of the delay. It does not appear that these questions were raised in the District Court and they were not
dealt with by the Court of Appeals, which evidently assumed the sufficiency of the declaration to. present the
main question as to the interpretation of the general coverage clause. Both courts below have decided the case
upon the assumption that the fruit was in sound condition when shipped and would have been merchantable at
the end of the -voyage had it not been for the stranding
and the consequent delay. In view of this course of proceedings we make the same assumption. If any question
as to the condition of the cargo or length of the delay and
its effect had been presented in the trial court, it might
have been met by amendment of the declaration and the
issue could have been tried; and if the main question,
upon the assumption stated, has been wrongly decided
and the case is remanded to the District Court, there will
still be opportunity to try any other issues of fact or law
which may properly be presented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S

The other preliminary question is with respect to the
effect of the rider above mentioned. We do not regard
that endorsement as either controlling or persuasive.
Manifestly it did not affect the application of the general
coverage clause. That clause had been in effect for a long
period before the rider and by express agreement that
clause remained in effect after the rider was canceled.
The rider covered losses not embraced in the marine
perils against which the policy insured and it also covered
losses which were already covered by the policy, and there
was room for difference of opinion as to exactly how far
the rider overlapped. The actual views of the parties
when the rider was obtained and the reasons for its cancellation are not shown with any definiteness. For all
that appears the insured may have been advised and may
have assumed that the coverage clause of the policy gave
protection in such a case as is here involved and may not
have desired to continue to pay the additional premium
for the other losses described. We are not called upon to
speculate as to the state of mind of the insured's officers
and one asserted ambiguity is not to be cured by another.
If the general coverage clause permits recovery, we see
nothing to defeat it in what was done in connection with
the rider.
Petitioner thus states the main question broadly: Does
the general clause of the marine cargo insurance policy,
insuring for loss caused by perils of the sea, cover a loss
where a marine peril, viz. stranding, has so delayed the
voyage that the cargo has become a total loss?
Respondent contends (1) that deterioration of perishable cargo caused through inherent vice while the vessel
is delayed by a sea peril, is not, without more, covered
under a marine policy which does not expressly insure
against such deterioration; and (2) that in order to recover for such deterioration it must be shown that the
adventure was not merely delayed but frustrated by rea-

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 561
556

Opinion of the Court.

son of the vessel's forced departure from the course of her
voyage, as, for example, where the vessel has put into a
port of distress and remained there for a period which
constituted a virtual abandonment or frustration of the
voyage.
In considering these contentions, we start with the fact
that the vessel, while proceeding up Chesapeake Bay,
stranded. That is alleged and conceded. Stranding is a
peril of the sea. Liverpool & Great Western Steam Co.
v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397, 438; Richelieu &
Ontario Navigation Co. v. Boston Marine Insurance Co.,
136 U. S. 408, 421; Arnould on Marine Insurance, 11th
ed., § 816; Winter on Marine Insurance, 2d ed., p. 156.
Loss through stranding was within the coverage of the
policy. This, as the court below observed, was expressly
recognized in the warranties against particular average
in which loss by stranding was excepted. 89 F. (2d) pp.
546, 547. And it was the stranding which caused the
delay. The case iq not one of the mere lengthening of
a voyage due to the ordinary vicissitudes of wind and
wave against which the underwriter does not insure,
Jordan v. Warren Insurance Co., 1 Story, 342, 352; Fed.
Cas. No. 7524, and we are not called upon to determine
in what circumstances other than those now presented
delay may be considered to be due to a peril of the sea
within the meaning of the policy.
The cargo was perishable fruit. Respondent insists
that its decay was caused by inherent vice which began to
operate as soon as the fruit was picked. But, although
perishable, the cargo was insured for the voyage against
sea perils and the sole question is whether a sea peril
caused the loss. As we have said, we must assume for the
present purpose, in view of the way in which the case
was presented and determined below, that the fruit was
sound when shipped and would have been merchantable
on arrival after a normal voyage, and that had it not been

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

for the delay due to the stranding of the vessel, the loss
would not have occurred despite the perishable nature of
the cargo.
We are not impressed by the argument that to permit
recovery it must appear that the adventure was not merely delayed but that it was frustrated through a forced
departure of the vessel from the course of her voyage and
the putting into a port of distress. So far as the cargo
in question was concerned, the adventure was frustrated
by the stranding and the cargo became a total loss before
the vessel could be floated. That loss was just as complete as if the vessel had been compelled to put into a
port and the voyage had then been abandoned.
The sole question is whether in these circumstances the
stranding should be regarded as the proximate cause of
the loss. Respondent contends that decay or inherent
vice was the proximate cause. It is true that the doctrine
of proximate cause is applied strictly in cases of marine
insurance. But in that class of cases, as well as in others,
the proximate cause is the efficient cause and not a merely
incidental cause which may be nearer in time to the result.
Insurance Company v. Boon, 95 U. S. 117, 130; Arnould
on Insurance, 11th ed., § 783.
The subject was discussed in an illuminating way by
Lord Shaw in his judgment in Leyland Shipping Co. v.
Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society, [1918] A. C. 350,
368-371. He said (p. 369):
"To treat proxima causa as the cause which is nearest
in time is out of the question. Causes are spoken of as
if they were as distinct from one another as beads in a
row or links in a chain, but-if this metaphysical topic
has to be referred to-it is not wholly so. The chain of
causation is a handy expression, but the figure is inadequate. Causation is not a chain, but a net. At each
point influences, forces, events, precedent and simultaneous, meet; and the radiation from each point extends

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 563
556

Opinion of the Court.

infinitely. At the point where these various influences
meet it is for the judgment as upon a matter of fact to
declare which of the causes thus joined at the point bf
effect was the proximate and which was the remote cause.
"Wlat does 'proximate' here mean? To treat proximate cause as if it was the cause which is proximate in
time is, as I have said, out of the question. The cause
which is truly proximate is that which is proximate in
efficiency. That efficiency may have been preserved although other causes may meantime have sprung up which
have yet not destroyed it, or truly impaired it, and it may
culminate in a result of which it still remains the real
efficient cause to which the event can be ascribed."
There, in a policy insuring a ship, there was a warranty
of exception in case of hostilities or warlike operations,
and the question was whether the loss of the vessel fell
within the exception. The vessel was torpedoed and sustained severe injuries but succeeded in making the outer
harbor of the port of Havre. Notwithstanding all efforts
by pumping and otherwise, she bumped, broke her back,
and sank. It was contended that she perished by a peril
of the sea because sea water entered the gash in her side
which the torpedo made. The entry of the sea water was
.indeed"a peril of the sea and was proximate in time to the
sinking. But as "proximate cause is an expression referring to the efficiency as an operating factor upon the result" it was held that "the real efficent cause" of the
sinking of the, vessel was that she was torpedoed and
'hence that the loss was within the exception.
In the Leyland case the House of Lords approved the
decision of the Court of Appeal in Reischer v. Borwick
[1894] 2 Q. B. 548, where the policy covered collision
with any object but excluded perils of the sea. The ship
struck a snag which made a hole in her. She was anchored and the leak was temporarily plugged. Then,
while she was being towed towards the nearest dock for

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

repair, the water burst through the hole and she had to
be run aground and abandoned. The contention was
that the proximate cause of the damage was the excepted
marine peril of the inrush of the sea water. But the
Court of Appeal held that the proximate cause was the
collision with the snag.
The same principle applies although within the network of causation there may be found the operation of
natural forces to which a disaster, within the coverage
of the policy, has given play. The decision of Justice
Story in Magoun v. New England Marine Insurance Co.,
1 Story 157; Fed. Cas. No. 8961, is an illustration. In
that case the question was whether the loss was due to a
restraint and detainment of government within the words
of a policy insuring the vessel and freight. It appeared
that there had been an arrest and detainment by the
authorities of New Granada; that the vessel had been
restored, but that, when restored, it was found, from her
long exposure to the weather in a hot climate, in an open
roadstead, that she had been so damaged that she could
not perform the voyage without great repairs which would
cost more than the vessel was worth; that hides belonging to the cargo had become rotten and were thrown overboard and that no other vessel could be found to carry
the residue of the cargo to destination. The vessel was
accordfngly abandoned to the underwriters, and Justice
Story held that the abandonment was good and the underwriters were liable for a total loss. He said (p. 164):
"The argument is, that the injury to the vessel, by the
long delay and exposure, to the climate, was the immediate cause of the loss, and the seizure and detainment the
remote cause only; and that, therefore, the rule applies,
Causa proxima, non remota, spectatur, and the underwriters are not liable for injury by mere wear and tear,
or by delays in the voyage, or by worms, or by exposure
to the climate. B4ut it appears to me, that this is not a

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 565
556

Opinion of the Court.

correct exposition of the rule. All the consequences naturally flowing from the peril insured against, or incident
thereto, are properly attributable to the peril itself."
In support, Justice Story referred to the decision of the
Court in Peters v. Warren Insurance Co., 14 Pet. 99, in
which he delivered the opinion. In that case he put the
following illustration (p. 110):
"Suppose a perishable cargo is greatly damaged by the
perils of the sea, and it should, in consequence thereof,
long afterwards, and before arrival at the port of destination, become gradually so putrescent as to be required to
be thrown overboard for the safety of the crew: the immediate cause of the loss would be the act of the master
and crew; but there is no doubt that the underwriters
would be liable for a total loss, upon the ground that the
operative cause was the perils of the sea."
And in the same case, Justice Story took occasion to
observe that if there be any commercial contract, which,
more than any other, "requires the application of sound
common sense and practical reasoning in the exposition
of it," it is "certainly a policy of insurance." Id., p. 109.
If we apply this principle of the "real efficient cause"
to the instant case, it can hardly be doubted that upon
the facts assumed the loss would be within the coverage
of the policy. Indeed this is not strongly contested, but
it is insisted that the case is controlled by certain precedents to which we should give heed in dealing with an
ancient form of words. These precedents are found in
certain English cases to which the Circuit Court of Appeals referred. The court recognized that a number of
American cases had taken a different view but thought
that, in the absence of a contrary decision by this Court
or any federal court, the cited English cases should be
followed in the view that in the field of marine insurance
"it is highly desirable that our decisions be kept in harmony with those of England." 89 F. (2d) p. 549.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court,

302 U.S.

Reference is made to the case of Taylor v. Dunbar, L.
R. 4 C. P. 206. There meat shipped at Hamburg for
London was delayed on the voyage by tempestuous
weather and solely by reason of such delay became putrid
and was necessarily thrown overboard. The court held
that it was not a loss by perils of the sea. Judge Keating
said that the facts showed "beyond a doubt that the proximate cause of the loss of the meat was the delay in the
prosecution of the voyage," and "that delay was occasioned by tempestuous weather." But he held "that a
loss by the unexpected duration of the voyage, though
that be caused by perils of the sea," did not entitle the
assured to recover. Judge Montague Smith, concurring,
said that if it were held "that a loss by delay, caused by
bad weather or the prudence of the captain in anchoring
to avoid it, was a loss by perils of the sea," the court would
"be opening a door to claims for losses which never were
intended to be covered by insurance, not only in the case
of perishable goods, but in the case of goods of all other
descriptions."
The case of Pink v. Fleming, L. R. 25 Q. B. D. 396, upon
which chief reliance is placed, was a case of collision. It
was necessary for the damaged ship to put into a port for
repairs and for that purpose to discharge a portion of the
goods insured, consisting of fruit. The goods were reshipped but on arrival it was found that being of a perishable nature they had been damaged by the handling necessary for their discharge and reshipment and by the delay.
The Court of Appeal held that the collision was not the
proximate cause of the loss and that there could be no
.recovery on the policy. Lord Esher said:
"The collision may be said to have been a cause, and an
effective cause, of the ship's putting into a port and of
repairs being necessary. For the purpose of such repairs
it was necessary to remove the fruit, and such removal
necessarily caused damage to it. The agent, however,

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 567
556

Opinion of the Court.

which proximately caused the damage to the fruit was
the handling, though no doubt the cause of the handling
was the repairs, and the cause of the repairs was the collision. According to the English law of marine insurance
only the last cause can be regarded. There is nothing
in the policy to say that the underwriters will be liable
for loss occasioned by that. To connect the loss with
any peril mentioned in the policy the plaintiffs must .go
back two steps, and that, according to English law, they
are not entitled to do."
The court thought that the case was governed by Taylor v. Dunbar, supra. Lord Esher added-"With regard
to the American authorities, the American law on the subject seems to differ materially from our law, and therefore
it is not necessary to consider them." I
It seems that neither of these cases went to the House
of Lords, and we find it impossible to reconcile Lord
Esher's ruling-"that according to the English law of marine insurance only the last cause can be regarded"-with
the elaborate exposition of the doctrine of proximate cause
which has been given by the House of Lords in Leyland
Shipping Co. v. Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society,
supra, from which we have quoted. And it is recognized
in England that "Passages in Lord Esher's judgment in
Pink v. Fleming . . . to the effect that only the cause
last in time can be looked to, cannot now be supported."
Arnould on Marine Insurance, 11th ed., § 783, note (r).
So far as the English rule, however, relates to losses, on
ship or goods, "proximately caused by delay, although
the delay be caused by a peril insured against," it has been
embodied in statute which apparently applies to all goods,
perishable or otherwise, unless the policy otherwise provides. That statute of course is controlling in relation to
'As to other English decisions cited below, Tatham v. Hodgson,
6 T. R. 656, and Inman Steamship Co. v. Bischoff, L. R. 7 App.
Cas. 670, see Arnould on Marine Insurance, 11th ed., §0 781, 785.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of 'the Court.

302 U. S.

English practice in that class of cases. Marine Insurance
Act, 1906, § 55 (2) (b). L. R. Statutes, 6 Edward VII,
p. 227. There is no statute applicable here which so
restricts the doctrine of proximate cause, as we understand
it and as it is set forth in the Leyland case, and the weight
of American authority is contrary to the doctrine of Pink
v. Fleming.
In Williams v. Smith, 2 Caines 1 (1804), the action was
on a policy of insurance covering a cargo consisting chiefly
of naval stores, including tar in barrels, on a voyage from
New York to Algiers. The vessel experienced severe
weather which resulted in such serious damage that it was
compelled to put into Cadiz as a port of distress. There
more than half of her lading was taken out and the vessel
moved to the usual place for repairing. While there an
epidemic fever broke out which prevented all business and
made it impossible to obtain permits for taking the cargo
from the place where it had been landed. Meanwhile the
vessel was driven to sea by a storm and sustained further
injuries and on returning to Cadiz it was found that the
cargo, both on shore and on board, from the heat of the
climate and violence of the gale, was deteriorated more
than one half of its original value. As the whole would
not have produced enough to fit the ship for the completion of her voyage, the vessel and the cargo were abandoned to the underwriters. The court charged the jury,
among other things, that "any damages which arose in
consequence of the fever at Cadiz, were within the perils
of the policy." The jury brought in a verdict for a total
loss. The court denied a new trial, Judge Kent stating
in his opinion "that the damage resulting from the pestilence at Cadiz" was covered by the policy. The court
found it unnecessary to decide "whether a pestilence is a
peril direct within the policy," but held that it formed "a
sound excuse for delay at Cadiz" and "if the consequence
of that delay was a deterioration of the subject insured,
the insurer must be answerable for the loss."

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 569
556

Opinion of the Court.

In Tudor v. New England Marine Insurance Co., 12
Cush. 554, the suit Was upon a policy of insurance on a
cargo of ice shipped from Boston to Calcutta. It was
agreed that the ice was properly packed and surrounded
with non-conductors of heat. Under the stipulations of
the policy, the insurer could be liable, if at all, only for a
total loss. There was also a clause that there should be
no liability "for ice melting in consequence of putting
into port." By perils of the sea, the vessel sprung a leak
which increased and it became necessary to put away for
a port. On taking out her cargo, in order to ascertain her
condition and the practicability of repairs, it was found
that the ice had settled, a portion of it having been melted
by the sea water which had come in contact with it by
reason of the leak. The ice was taken out and sold for a
very small sum in comparison with its estimated value
at the port of delivery. The voyage was abandoned. It
was denied that the loss was occasioned by a peril of the
sea. The insured had judgment for a total loss. The
court considered it to be well settled that if an article
insured as free from average be "placed in such a condition, that in consequence of inevitable deterioration or
decay, it cannot be carried to the port of destination, but
will necessarily, before the completion of the voyage, be
wholly destroyed, and it is accordingly sold, at an intermediate port," this would constitute a total loss within
the meaning of the policy. The court also held that the
exception of the risk of ice "melting in consequence of
putting into port" did not include "a loss occasioned by
the melting of the ice from other causes, or a combination
of other causes." The real cause was the injury to the
vessel which made it necessary to take out the ice in a
port in the tropics. See, also, Musgrave v. Mannheim
Insurance Co., 32 Nov. Sc. Rep. 405.
Cory v. Boylston Insurance Co., 107 Mass. 140, is cited
by respondent as an answer to the Tudor case, but the
latter was not overruled or even mentioned. In the Cory

OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

case a vessel with wine on board met with severe gales
which prolonged her voyage and caused her to ship much
sea water, and upon her arrival at the port of destination
the cases of wine were found to be more or less wet either
by the sea water or by the steam and dampness generated
in the hold by the presence of the sea water and the
changes of climate through which the vessel had passed.
The case was controlled by special provisions of the policy. The policy, provided that the insurers should not
be liable for loss by leakage unless occasioned by stranding or collision, or "for damage or injury to goods by
.dampness, rust, change of flavor, or by being spotted, discolored, musty or mouldy, unless the same be caused by
actual contact of sea water with the articles damaged,
occasioned by sea peril." The court thought that the
latter clause was inserted with a knowledge of the decisions in Baker v. Manufacturers' Insurance Co., 12 Gray
603, and Montoya v. London Assurance Co., 6 Exch. 451.
To bring a case within that clause the court held that it
was not enough "that perils of the sea should be the
efficient, and, within the rule laid down in the previous
decisions, the proximate cause, by which the sea water
was shipped," but that the sea water "must come into
actual contact with the articles, for the damage to which
the underwriters are sought to be charged."
Respondent also cites Perry v. Cobb, 88 Me. 435, where
the insurance was on a cargo of lime shipped by a brig
from Rockland to New York. The voyage was prolonged
on account of rough weather but the vessel arrived tight
and only slightly damaged. No sea water had reached
the cargo unless in a few instances where a hatch had
been taken off or once when the cabin was flooded. That
damage was far below the partial loss which had been
excepted from the coverage. The remaining damage was
"from the shrinking of the staves of the barrels and slacking. up of the cooperage," causing a loss of contents and

LANASA FRUIT CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 571
556

Opinion of the Court.

making the barrels insecure for hoisting,-a condition
which was claimed to have resulted from the rolling and
pitching of the vessel caused by the storms of an unusually protracted voyage. The court said that "All
authorities agree that a protracted voyage is not a sea
peril within a marine policy, because it is not an unusual
event, but one of the natural incidents to sea transit";
that the evidence 'was conflicting "as to the proximate
cause for the condition of the cargo upon its arrival"; that
the associates, who in this case had insured each other
and to whom it was agreed that the question of liability
should be submitted, were men of large experience in
burning and shipping lime; and that their decision against
the plaintiff "must have great weight upon the fact as
to whether the condition of the cargo, upon its arrival in
New York, was other than what might have been expected from ordinary sea weather at that time of year,?'
without any "unusual sea peril." The conclusion was
that the principal damage to the cargo came "from its
own inherent qualities, excited by the long continued
transit." Id., pp. 449, 450.
In the case of Bond v. The Superb, 1 Wall. Jr. 355; 3
Fed. Cas..845, also cited by respondent and the court below, the decision of Mr. Justice Grier at circuit turned
upon the question of liability for general average and
in this view had distinguishing features.
Fourteen years ago a case closely resembling the one at
bar came before the New York courts. Brandyce v
United States Lloyds (The Corsicana),207 App. Div. 665;
203 N. Y. S. 10; 239 N. Y. 573; 147 N. E. 201. The action
was upon policies covering a cargo of potatoes insured
against perils of the sea. The vessel, in consequence of
a collision at sea with some unknown object, was corhpelled to put into Charleston for repairs where it was
found necessary to discharge the cargo. After repairs the
vessel resumed her voyage but, on account of the delay,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the potatoes because of sprouting and rot had to be sold.
They were not injured directly in the collision or touched
by sea water. The precise question presented was
"whether loss by natural deterioration, during a delay in
the voyage caused by a sea peril, is a toss by sea perils
within the meaning and intent of the policy of insurance."
The Appellate Division reviewed the authorities in England and in this country. The court held that mere delay
on the voyage, as a result of which cargo is spoiled or damaged, was'not a ground for recovery. But the court found
that the collision, the sea peril insured against, was the
real cause of the loss. The court said: "The evidence indicates that if the Corsicanahad not been damaged by
reason of sea perils, the potatoes would have arrived sound.
The proximate cause of the loss, therefore, was the sea
peril, because it was the efficient dominant cause which,
although incidentally involving delay, placed the cargo in
such a condition that, because of inevitable deterioration
or decay, it could not be reshipped and carried to its destination." The Court of Appeals of New York stated the
question in the same way and affirmed the judgment.
We lay on one side cases of protracted voyages caused
by storms and the special questions to which their varied
circumstances give rise. Such a case is not before us.
The instant case is one of stranding, a sea peril insured
against, and we think that the well-settled doctrine of
proximate cause, meaning the real efficient cause of the
loss, requires the conclusion that, upon the assumptions
of fact we stated at the outset, the loss of the cargo was
within the general coverage clause of the policy.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND are of opinion that the case was correctly decided by

the court below on grounds adequately stated.

