UNITED STATES v. STEVENS.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. STEVENS, ADMINISTRATRIX,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 143.

FOR THE

Argued January 3, 4, 1938.-Decided January 17, 1938.

An ex-soldier, upon entering the National Home for Disabled Soldiers,
situate in Massachusetts, contracted with its Board of Managers,
pursuant to the Act of June 25, 1910, that upon his death while
a member of the Home, all of his personal property should become
vested in the Board of Managers for the sole use and benefit of
the post fund of the Home, subject to be reclaimed by any legatee
or person-entitled to take the same by inheritance, at any time
within five years after his death. He left no will. Held:
1. The contract was valid and consistent with the law of Massachusetts. Notice to the heirs unnecessary. P. 626.
2. That his bank deposits, not having been claimed by his next
of kin within five years of his death, became the property of the
Home. P. 628.
89 F. (2d) 151, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 666, to review the reversal of a

judgment, 15 F. Supp. 139, recovered by the United States
in a suit against a trust company owing money on de-

posit to the credit of a deceased veteran, and against the
administrator of his estate, and persons claiming to be
his heirs at law and next of kin. The decree of the District Court required that the trust company pay the
United States the amount of the fund and enjoined the
individuals from asserting any claim to it.
Mr. Paul Campbell, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, and Messrs. Paul

A. Sweeney and Henry A. Julicher were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. James E. Carroll, with whom Messrs. Charles B.

Rugg and Warren F. Farrwere on the brief, for respond-

ents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTIcE

BLACK

302 IT. S.

delivered the opinion of uie

Court.
Can the United States enforce a contract executed by
an ex-soldier in order to obtain admission into the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, which contract provides that upon the death of the veteran while
a member of the Home, all his personal property shall
pass to the Home subject to be reclaimed within five
years by any legatee or person entitled to receive the
property by inheritance?
The district court held the contract valid and enforceable.' The Court of Appeals reversed
The facts disclose that:
Thomas McGovern, a native of Ireland, served in the
United States Army from 1877 to 1882; in 1904 his wife
and three daughters left him, but a son, Robert, continued to live with McGovern until 1918 when the son
(represented in this cause by a guardian) was committed
to a state home for the insane; the complete severance
of all family ties and associations continued until McGovern's death, and the wife and daughters, living most
of the time in Boston, Massachusetts, were wholly unaware of his whereabouts for the last twenty years of his
life, most of which were spent in nearby Chelsea; under
these circumstances, McGovern, age 72, in his application for admission to the Home, stated that the names
and addresses of his wife and nearest relatives were unknown, and that he desired admission because he was
"unable on account of his disability to earn his living".; a
doctor's certificate showed that his mental condition was
good, at the date of admission, but that he needed medical treatment and attention due to serious physical weakness and ailments. His written agreement with the Home
stated:
1

15 F. Supp. 139.

289 F. (2d) 151.

UNITED STATES v. STEVENS.
623

Opinion of the Court.

"The said Thomas McGovern hereby agrees that, in
event of his death while a member of the National Military Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, leaving no
heirs at law or next of kin, all personal property owned by
him at the time of his death, including money or choses
in action held by him and not disposed of by will, whether
such property be the proceeds of pensions or otherwise
derived, shall vest in and become the property of said
Board of Managers for the sole use and benefit of the
post fund of said home, and that all personal property of
the said Thomas McGovern shall upon his death, while
a member, at once pass to and vest in said Board of
Managers, subject to be reclaimed by any legatee or person entitled to take the same by inheritance at any time
within five years after the death of such member; . .
[Italics added.]
At the time of his admission into the Home, McGovern
had savings deposits which were his personal property.
September 17, 1928, while an inmate of the Home, he
died intestate. His wife died in 1933 without knowledge
of his death, and none of the daughters learned of his
death until October 19, 1935. No claim to McGovern's
property was filed with the Home within five years after
his death.
In this action brought by the United States to require
payment to the Home of funds of McGovern on deposit
in a Massachusetts bank at his death, it is contended:
(1) that, because McGovern left surviving heirs, the
title to his personal property did not pass to the
Home;
(2) that the Act of June 25, 19101 authorizing the
Home to make the contract with McGovern is
invalid.
3 Act of June 25, 1910, c. 384, 36 Stat. 703, 736, U. S. C., Title 24,
ยง 136:
"Hereafter the application of any person for membership in the
National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers and the admission

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

1. There is no ambiguity in the contract or in the Act
which authorized it. No words in the contract indicate
that the personal property should pass to the Home only
in the absence of persons entitled to take by law. On
the contrary, both the contract and the Act evince a clear
intent that the personal property of the veteran, when
not claimed by heirs or legatees within five years after

the veteran's death, should pass to the Home to be used to
provide comforts and entertainment for its inmates. "The
measure [the Act of 1910] leaves the member free to dispose by will and safeguards to the legatees and heirs the

right within five years to reclaim 'all the property' that belonged to him at the time of his death. As to that, there is
no ambiguity and therefore nothing to construe." [Italics
added.]

National Home v. Wood, 299 U. S. 211, 216.

2. The Court of Appeals was of the opinion that the
Act of Congress authorizing the contract was void as an
interference with the reserved rights of the state of the
veteran's legal domicile when he died (Massachusetts)
of the applicant thereunder shall be and constitute a valid and
binding contract between such applicant and the Board of Managers
of said home that on the death of said applicant while a member
of such home, leaving no heirs at law nor next of kin, all personal
property owned by said applicant at the time of his death, including
money or choses in action held by him and not disposed of by will,
whether such property.be the proceeds of pensions or otherwise derived, shall vest in and become the property of said Board of Managers for the sole use and benefit of the post fund of said home, the
proceeds to be disposed of and distributed among the several branches
as may be ordered by said Board of Managers, and that all personal
property of said applicant shall, upon his death, while a member,
at once pass to and vest in said Board of Managers, subject to
be reclaimed by any legatee or person entitled to take the same by
inheritance at any time within five years after the death of such
member. The Board of Managers is directed to so change the form
of application for membership as to give reasonable notice of this
provision to each applicant and as to contain the consent of the
applicant to accept membership upon the conditions herein provided."
[Italics added.]

UNITED STATES v. STEVENS.
623

Opinion of the Court.

in that "it was at most but an attempt to make a future
testamentary disposition of McGovern's property, when
such a disposition could only be effected by will."
This contract, however, is valid under the applicable
state law.4 The Supreme Court of Massachusetts in
1931 in the case of Hale v. Wilmarth, 274 Mass. 186, 189;
174 N. E. 232, said, "The statute of wills, . . . does not
prevent an owner of property from stipulating by contract for the disposition of his property at the time of
his death."'
During the life of the veteran, his property was his
own to dispose of as he desired; his was an "intent to
make a more binding and irrevocable provision than a
legacy could be"' and a stipulation for notice to his heirs
of the fact of his death was not required to make the provision valid. "Not until the ancestor dies is there any
vested right in the heir." Jefferson v. Fink, 247 U. S.
288, 294.
In passing the Act of June, 1910, Congress merely directed the terms and conditions under which veterans,
consistently with state law, can obtain admittance to
Homes built, maintained and operated by the government
for the benefit of veterans. Homes for the aged, needy,
or infirm, in return for the benefits bestowed by them,
generally receive some benefit from any property or estates
of their members.!
4 "Contracts respecting the disposition of one's property after
death, are not uncommon." Murphy v. Murphy, 217 Mass. 233,
236; .104 N. E. 466.
6 See, also, Holyoke National Bank v. Bailey, 273 Mass. 551; 174
N. E. 230; Ex parte Simons, 247 U. S. 239.
6
Krell v. Codman, 154 Mass. 454; 28 N. E. 578.
7
See United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508 (Cf. Order of St.
Benedict v. Steinhauser, 234 U. S. 640). See Digest of Poor Relief
Laws of the Several States and Territories as of May 1, 1936,
prepared by Robert C. Lowe and Staff, Legal Research Section, under
the supervision of A. Ross Eckler,- Co6rdinator of Special Inquiries,
Division of Social Research, Works Progress Administration.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

When McGovern entered this Home he was aged, without family ties, lonely and physically incapacitated. There
he received care, food, shelter and companionship. He
would have been privileged to remain in the Home even
though, after admittance, he had chosen to make the
members of his family the recipients of the money, by
gift, by will, or by notifying them to claim his property
after his death.
The claim of the Government is based on a contract
between the veteran and the Home. Nothing in the
record indicates that the agreement was not fairly and
voluntarily entered into between the parties, or that it
was inequitable, unjust or not upon valuable consideration. Both parties were competent to make the contract.
This contract is valid and enforceable, and since no claim
was made by heirs or legatees within five years after his
death, the veteran's personal property passed to the Home
for the benefit of its inmates. The decree of the Court
of Appeals is not in harmony with these views and is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part

in the consideration

or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 199.

Argued January 5, 6, 1938.-Decided January 17, 1938.

Sec. 17 of the Economy Act of March 20, 1933, declared that "All
public laws granting medical or hospital treatment, domiciliary
care, compensation and other allowances, pension, disability allowance, or retirement pay to veterans and the dependents of veterans of . . . the World War, . . . are hereby repealed, and all
laws granting or pertaining to yearly renewable term insurance are
hereby repealed . . . " Held that it was not intended thereby to

