OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

in M'Culloch v. Maryland and ever since consistently
applied in the decisions of the court. I think that the
judgment should be affirmed.
These views with respect to the nature of the tax
render it unnecessary to express any opinion as to the
-asserted exclusive federal jurisdiction over the area
within which the appellee pursued the activities which
are the' subject of the exaction.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUsTICE BUTLER

join in this opinion.

SILAS MASON CO. ET AL. v. TAX COMMISSION
OF WASHINGTON

ET AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 7. Argued April 27, 1937. Reargued October 12, 13, 1937.Decided December 6, 1937.
1. A state occupation tax on gross receipts may constitutionally include the receipts from construction work done under a contract
• with the United States. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., ante
p. 134. P. 190.
2. Acquisition by the United States of exclusive territorial jurisdiction
over land to which it has acquired title within a State, is dependent upon consent of or cession from the State. P. 197.
3. Whether a State has yielded to the United States exclusive legislative authority over land within the State is a federal question.
P. 197.
4. The provisions of the federal Reclamation Act relative to the
acquisition of land, and the provisions of Remington's Rev. Stats.
of Washington §§ 7410-7412 granting land to the United States.
for irrigation projects, do not intend thai, with the title, the United
States shall acquire exclusive jurisdiction over the land conveyed.
Pp. 197 et seq.
* Together with No. 8, Ryan v. Washington et al., also on appeal
from the Supreme Court of Washington.

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

187

Syllabus.

This applies to land in the bed of a navigable river, shore lands
and uplands, including school lands.
5. The term "other needful buildings" in Const. Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17,
embraces whatever structures are found to be necessary in the
performance of the functions of the Federal Government. James v.
Dravo ContractingCo., ante p. 134. P. 203.
6. This clause of the Constitution does not imply that the consent
of the State to purchases must be without any reservation of jurisdiction. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., ante p. 134. Id.
Such an implication would not be consistent with the freedom of
the State and with its admitted authority to refuse or qualify
cessions of jurisdiction when purchases have been made without
consent or property has been acquired by condemnation.
7. Sec. 8108 of Remington's Rev. Stats. of Washington, giving the
State's consent to acquisition of lands by the United States for
purposes named, applies to acquisition from individuals and corporations, but semble not to acquisitions from the State itself.
P. 205.
8. Sec. 8108 of Remington's Rev. Stats. of Washington, which consents, in accordance with Const. Art. I, § 9, Cl. 17, to acquisition
of lands by the United States for locks, dams, piers, etc., and other
necessary structures and purposes required in improvement of
rivers and harbors of the State, or for sites of forts and magazines,
arsenals, docks etc., "or other needful buildings" and cedes jurisdiction is construed by the State Supreme Court as inapplicable, and as not yielding all legislative authority of the State,
where the land is acquired for a project such as the Columbia
Basin Project, which looks not only to the improvement of navigation but "also to the development of irrigation and of power for
industrial purposes. Held:
(1) That in view of the scope of the project mentioned, this
construction can not be deemed inadmissible, and even if not binding it should be accorded much weight. P. 206.
(2) Assuming that the power development contemplated is incidental to improvement of navigation, reclamation. of arid and
semi-arid land, one of the main objectives of the project, is an
activity always regarded as carrying with it an appropriate recognition of continued state jurisdiction. Id.
(3) Therefore this statute (enacted in 1891) can not be taken
as conclusively showing an intent to yield exclusive jurisdiction in
such a case; and in as much as it appears that the Federal Government did not intend to acquire exclusive jurisdiction but con-

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

templated the continued existence of state jurisdiction consistent
with federal functions and invited the coperation of the State in
providing an appropriate exercise of local authority over the territory embraced in the project, the State court's construction is
accepted. Id.
9. In acquiring ,land for federal purposes the Government is not
compelled to accept a transfer of exclusive jurisdiction from the
State. P. 207.
10. Unauthorized administrative action becomes legal when ratified
by Congress. P. 208.
11. Ratification of "all contracts" executed in connection with the
Grand Coulee Dam project, permits reference to the contracts as
proving the intention, not only of the federal officials who executed them but of Congress, that, consistently with the execution
of the plan, the jurisdiction of the State, over the large area acqiired, including jurisdiction over contractors engaged on the
project, should be retained. P. 209.
12. To invest the United States with exclusive jurisdiction over tribal
Indian lands in a State a cession from the State is essential. P.-.
13. The State of Washington had territorial jurisdiction to tax the
receipts of federal contractors on the land acquired by the
United States for the Grand Coulee Dam project and the tax does
not lay an unconstitutional burden on the Federal Government.
P. 210.
188 Wash. 98, 115; 61 P. (2d) 1269, 1276, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees affirming decrees of a Superior
Court which sustained occupation taxes laid on the gross
receipts enuring to the appellants under contracts with
the United States for construction work in the State of
Washington. In the first case injunctive relief was denied
by the Superior Court. The second case included an action or appeal to recover a tax payment, and a suit for an
injunction, both of which were dismissed by the Superior
Court.

Mr. B. H. Kizer for appellants in No. 7, on the original
argument and the reargument. Messrs. John W. Davis, J.
Arthur Leve, and E. D. Weller were with him on the brief.
Messrs. E. D. Weller and B. H. Kizer for appellant in
Y'o. S, on the original argument.

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John W. Davis for appellant in No. 8, on the
reargument. Messrs. B. H. Kizer, J. Arthur Leve, and
E. D. Weller were with him on the brief.
Messrs. E. W. Schwellenbach and E. P. Donnelly 'for
appellees in No. 8, on the original argument and the
reargument.
Solicitor General Reed, with whom Attorney General
Cummings, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, Arnold Raum, and
Francis A. LeSourd were on the brief, for the United
States as amicus curiae in Nos. 7 and 8, by special leave
of Court, on the reargument.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. W. G. Graves, on behalf of Mason-Walsh-AtkinsonKier Co., in support of appellant in No. 8; and by Messrs.
E. P. Donnelly and E. W. Schwellenbach, on behalf of
Grant County, Oreg., in support of appellees in No. 8.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These suits were brought to restrain the enforcement of
the Occupation Tax Act of the State of Washington (Laws
of 1933, c. 191, p. 869; Spec. Sess., 1933, c. 57, p. 1571)
as applied to the gross income received by appellants
under contracts with the United States for work performed
in connection with the building of the Grand Coulee Dam
I The Act describes the tax as laid "upon the privilege of engaging in business activities." Section 2-a (1) provides: " . . . there is
hereby levied and there shall be collected from every person engaging
or continuing within this state in the business of rendering or performing services . . . an annual tax or excise for the privilege of engaging in such business . . .equal to the gross income of the business
multiplied by five-tenths of one per cent; ...."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

on the Columbia River.2 The Supreme Court of the State
sustained the tax and affirmed judgments dismissing the
suits. Silas Mason Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, 188 Wash.
98; 61 P. (2d) 1269; Ryan v. State, 188 Wash. 115; 61
P. (2d) 1276. The cases come here on appeal.
The questions are (1) whether the tax imposes an unconstitutional burden upon the Federal Government, and
(2) whether the areas in which appellants' work is performed are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States. On reargument, and at the request of the Court,
the views of the Government upon these questions were
presented. With respect to the first question, our ruling
upholding the validity of a similar tax of West Virginia
as laid upon the gross receipts of a contractor engaged in
building locks and dams for the United States is controlling. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., ante, p. 134.
We pass to. the question of territorial jurisdiction.
1. The following facts as to the nature and history of
the enterprise, as set forth in appellants' complaints and
shown by evidence and stipulations, are uncontroverted:
The Columbia River, above its lower reaches, partakes
of the character of a mountain stream, its fall being
great, its current swift and its course marked at intervals of a few miles by rapids flowing over and through
rocky masses of such magnitude as to render navigation
difficult and in many instances impossible save by the
construction of canals and locks. There are great alternations in its flow, its period of high water depending'
upon the melting of snow in the mountains where its
sources are found. Its principal tributary is the Snake
River which has the same characteristics. Through improvements that have been made and are contemplated,
2 Appellant David H. Ryan, in No. 8, also brought an action to
obtain a refund of occupation taxes which he had paid. That action
was consolidated for hearing in tho state courts with the suit for injunction to restrain further collection.

MASON CO. v. TAX COMMN.
186

Opinion of the Court.

the Columbia River is commercially navigable from its
mouth to the mouth of the Snake, and above that point
the Columbia is navigable locally, from pool to pool, to
the mouth of the Okanogan River, but all such navigation is difficult and not commercially feasible because of
the physical conditions above described. These characteristics, however, "render it an ideal stream for the
development of hydroelectric power." For the most part
the Columbia River within the United States flows
through an arid country, "the land being immensely productive.and rich when placed under irrigation, but of no
value without irrigation." The course of the river for
the greater part of its length in the United States lies
wholly within the State of Washington. From a short
distance below the mouth of the Snake, the Columbia
is the boundary between the States of Washington and
Oregon.
Following sporadic improvements extending over a
number of years, the Corps of Engineers of the War
Department finally made an exhaustive survey, and in
1932 the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army
recommended a comprehensive plan for the development
of the Columbia River, which took into consideration
the use of its waters for the purposes of navigation, flood
control, power development, and irrigation. The plan
contemplated the construction of ten dams across the
river at various points in Washington and' where the
river is the boundary between Washington and Oregon.
The uppermost of these dams is at the head of Grand
Coulee in Washington about 150 miles below the international boundary and 274 miles above the mouth of the
Snake River. The plan was commonly described as the
Columbia Basin Project.
In June, 1933, Harold L. Ickes was appointed Administrator of Public Works, and later the President, under
authority of the National Industrial Recovery Act (§§

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

201-203, 48 Stat. 200-205) directed the Administrator to
include in the Public Works program the Grand Coulee
Dam and Power Plant. Appellants state that the project as finally recommended by the War Department and
the Department of the Interior contemplated, among
other features, a dam at the Grand Coulee to be 370 feet
high above low water (550 feet high; as actually constructed) and 4290 feet long on the crest, and a power
plant to develop 2,100,000 horse power, at a total cost
of $392,000,000. Appellants add that this is the key dam
on the river and will create a lake 150 miles long, reaching the Canadian boundary; that over five million acre
feet of storage will become available, the release of which
when the flow of the river is at its lowest will double
the prime power of the river downstream to the Snake
River and add more than 50 per cent. to the power of
-the Columbia below the Snake; that the storage will
have an appreciable effect in reducing floods on the whole
river and that "there will be 905,500 acres of first class
land available for irrigation."
In 1933, the legislature of the State of Washington
-created the Columbia Basin Commission to promote the
Columbia Basin Project. Laws of 1933, c. 81, p. 376;
Ryan v. State, supra, p. 1277. For that purpose the
Commission obtained an allocation of $377,000 of the
emergency relief funds of the State. On June 30, 1933,
the United States, represented by the Commissioner of
the Bureau of Reclamation, under the provisions of the
Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388) and
amendatory and supplementary Acts, made a contract
with the Columbia Basin Commission by which the
United States agreed to undertake topographic surveys
and exploratory work and prepare certain designs and
estimates for which the Columbia Basin Commission undertook to pay within the limits of its appropriation.
Ryan v. State, supra, p. 1278.

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

On November 1, 1933, the Secretary of the Interior
signed a memorandum, addressed to himself as Administrator of Public Works, in which the Secretary recommended that the project "be considered a federal project
to be constructed, operated and maintained by the Bureau
of Reclamation and to be paid for from net revenues derived from'the sale of its electric power." Under the same
date, the United States, represented by the Secretary of
the Interior, in pursuance of the Reclamation Act of 1902
and the National Industrial Recovery Act, made a further
agreement with the State of Washington providing for
the expenditure by the United States, through the Bureau of Reclamation, of the sum of $63,000,000 for the
construction of a dam and power plant at the Grand
Coulee site, together with necessary transmission lines.
There was further provision that the United States should
retain title to the dam and power plant until the cost
of the project, including the cost of the first unit dam
and power plant, had been fully repaid into the United
States Treasury; that the State Commission should act
as an advisory board in conference with .officers of the
United States concerning the various important questions
which might arise in connection with the construction
and use of the dam, power plant and transmission lines;
and that the State should have an option to purchase
the perpetual right to the entire power output of the
first unit dam and power plant upon prescribed conditions. Ryan v. State, supra,p. 1278.
On December 12, 1933, the Secretary of the Interior
and Administrator of Public Works signed an amended
Declaration of Taking in the case of United States v.
Continental Land Co. et al., in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Washington, in which it
was stated that certain lands at the Grand Coulee Dam
site to the extent of 840.28 acres "are hereby taken for
the use of the United States" in the construction of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

dam "for the regulation and control of the flow of the
Columbia River, for a storage reservoir from the damsite
to the Canadian boundary, for the improvement of navigation, for flood control, for hydro-electric power development at the Grand Coulee damsite, for the increase of
power development down-stream, for the reclamation of
arid and semi-arid lands, for the domestic use of water,
and for the relief of unemployment." Thereupon the
United States immediately acquired title and possession
of the lands involved. 40 U. S. C. 258a. Shortly after,
on January 4, 1934, the First Assistant Secretary of the
Interior gave formal notice to the Commissioner of Public Lands of Washington of the intention of the United
States to make examinations and surveys and attached
to the notice a list of lands owned by the State "over and
upon which the United States requires rights of way for
canals, ditches, laterals and sites for reservoirs and structures appurtenant thereto; and such additional rights of
way and quantities of land as may be required for the
operation and maintenance of the completed works for
the said proposed Columbia Basin Project." The notice
was given pursuant to the state statutes to which we
shall presently refer. The lands in this list are described
as "Bed and Shore Lands of Washington State" and "Uplands of Washington State," affected by Columbia Basin
Project.
In December 1933, the Department of the Interior
entered into a contract with David H. Ryan (No. 8) for
the excavation of the "over-burden" at the damsite.
That work was upon land, above high -water mark, already or about to be acquired by the United States. The
contractor completed it in the summer of 1934, maintaining his office and living quarters within the territory
of the Grand Coulee Project. The contract provided
that the appellant should "obtain all required licenses
\and permits," should furnish "compensation insurance"

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

in compliance with the laws of the State, and should
"comply with all applicable provisions of federal, state
and municipal safety laws and building and construction
codes." Ryan v. State, supra, p. 1279.
In July, 1934, a contract was made between the United
States and Silas Mason Company and others, appellants
in No. 7, for the construction of part of the Grand Coulee
Dam and Power Plant covered by described items in the
schedule of specifications, for the sum of $29,339,301.50.8
This contract, like that of Ryan, required the contractor
to obtain licenses and permits and to furnish compensation insurance in compliance with the workmen's compensation law of the State.
Such a vast undertaking necessarily had in view a large
number of employees who with their families would require the appropriate facilities of community life. Accordingly, the specifications provided for the erection on
the tract acquired by the Government of a "contractor's
camp," embracing the various buildings incident to the
work and homes for the contractor's employees. The
contractor was required, 'regardless of the approval of
the contracting officer, to "comply with all the laws and
regulations of the State of Washington or any agency or
subdivision thereof, which affect the building, maintenance or operation" of the camp. The discharge of sewage into the Columbia River was to conform to the laws
and regulations of the Department of Health of the
State. The contractor was to make all necessary arrangements with the proper state and county authorities
3 For administrative purposes and to avoid confusion with business
operations of the contractors elsewhere, the contractors organized the
appellant Mason-Walsh-Atkinson-Kier Company, and to avoid objections to an assignment of the contract they entered into an agreement with the United States in September, 1934, by which the new
company was constituted the agent of the contractors for the prosecution of the work without relinquishment of their obligations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

for school facilities and for police protection, which within
"the area involved in and surrounding the construction
work" was to be furnished by the Washington State
Patrol in co~peration with the Government. The contractor was also to provide and maintain jail facilities
satisfactory to the Washington State Patrol and to cooperate with it and the Government in the maintenance
of law and order.
The contractor's camp has developed into a community
called "Mason City." On the opposite side of the river
lies another camp maintained by the United States for
the offices and residences of its engineers. It appears that
there are "two regularly formed school districts" in the
area in question, one in the "engineers' town" and one
in "Mason City," under the laws of the State of Washington-; that in "Mason City" the policemen employed
by the contractor have been made deputy sheriffs of
Okanogan County; that the attorney for the contractor
has been appointed a justice of the peace, and one of the
doctors in the hospital at the camp has been made a
deputy coroner, in that county; that, in the fall of 1933,
one who was operating a beer parlor within the part of
the area which lies in Grant County, without a permit from
the county commissioners, was fined in a justice's court
as provided in the local ordinance; that the sheriff of
Grant County has been called to the damsite to investigate infractions of local law.
In September 1934, the Department of the Interior
made a further contract with appellant Ryan for the construction of a railroad connecting with the tracks of the
Northern Pacific Railway Company at Odair, Washington, and running to the site of the Grand Coulee Dam.
The sole purpose of this railroad was to assist in the construction of the dam and the appurtenant works.
By the Act of August 30, 1935, 49 Stat. 1028, 1039,
1040, the Congress "validated and ratified" all the "con-

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

tracts and agreements" which had been executed in con-

nection with the Grand Coulee Dam.
2. No question is presented as to the constitutional authority of Congress to provide for this enterprise or to acquire the lands necessary or appropriate for that purpose.
There is no contention that the State may interfere with
the Conduct of the enterprise. The question of exclusive
territorial jurisdiction is distinct. That question assumes
the absence of any interference with the exfercise of the
functions of the Federal Government and is whether the
United States has acquired exclusive legislative authority
so as to debar the State from exercising any legislative
authority, including its taxing and police power, in relation to the property and activities of individuals and corporations within the territory. The acquisition of title by
the United States is not sufficient to effect that exclusion.
It must appear that the State, by consent or cession, has
transferred to the United States that residuum of jurisdiction which otherwise it would be free to exercise. Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S.647, 650-652; James
v. Dravo ContractingCo., supra. See, also, Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S.527, 539; Arlington Hotel
Co. v. Fant, 278 U. S.439, 451; United States v. Unzeuta,
281 U. S.138, 142.
In this instance, the Supreme Court of Washington has
held that the State has not yielded exclusive legislative authority to the Federal Government. Ryan v. State,
supra. That question, however, involving the extent of
the jurisdiction of the United States, is necessarily a federal question. Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United States,
260 U. S.77, 87; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S.64, 75;
Borax Consolidated v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10, 22.

3. The question arises with respect (a) to lands acquired by the United States from the State itself, (b)
to lands acquired by the United States from individual
owners by purchase or condemnation, (c) to Indian tribal
lands.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Lands acquired from the State. These -consist of the
river bed and shore lands and of certain uplands including "school lands."
While the United States has paramount authority over
the river for the purpose of the control and improvement
of navigation, the title to the river bed, as well as to the
shore lands and school lands, was in the State (Port of
Seattle v. Oregon-Washington R. Co., 255 U. S. 56, 63)
and the State had legislative authority over all this area
consistent with federal functions. United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 386, 387; Stockton v. Baltimore &
N. Y. R. Co., 32 Fed. 9, 18; Hamburg American S. S.
Co. v. Grube, 196 U. S.407, 415; Gromer v. Standard
Dredging Co., 224'U. S. 362, 371, 372. The notice ,to
the state authorities by the Department of the Interior
with respect to the river bed, shore lands and uplands
owned by the State was said to be given "pursuant to the
Act of Congress of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388) and
acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto."
43 U. S. C. 371 et seq. The notice is set forth in the
margin." The reference is to the United States Recla"United States Department of the Interior
Office of the Secretary, Washington
Jan -4 1934
Bureau of Reclamation
Mails and Files, Jan 5 1934
Washington, D. C.
State Commissioner of Public Lands,
Olympia, Washington.
Dear Sir:
Please take notice that pursuant to the Act of Congress of June
17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388) and acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, the United States intends to make examinations
and surveys for the utilization of the waters of Columbia River and its
tributaries in the development of the proposed Columbia Basin Project.
The foregoing notice is given pursuant to Section 3378 of Pierce's
Code (1929).
Please take further notice that attached hereto, identified as "Exhibit A" and made a part hereof is a list of lands owned by the

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

mation Act. That Act was not intended to provide for
the acquisition of exclusive federal jurisdiction. The Act
itself stated the contrary (§ 8, 43 U. S. C. 383). It directed
the Secretary of the Interior to proceed in conformity
with the state laws in carrying out the provisions of the
Act and provided that nothing therein contained should
be cqnstrued as interfering with the laws of the State
relating to the control, appropriation, use or distribution
of water used in irrigation. The Act has been administered in harmony with this controlling principle that the
State should not be ousted of jurisdiction. See Kansas
v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 92, 93; Nebraska v. Wyoming,
295 U. S. 40, 42; California Oregon Power Co. v. Beaver
Cement Co., 295 U. S. 142, 164.
The Department of the Interior expressly stated that
the notice was given "pursuant to § 3378 of Pierce's Code
(1929)" with respect to examinations and surveys, and
the list of state lands "in pursuance of § 3380 of Pierce's
Code (1929)." These are §§ 7410 and 7412 of Remington's Revised Statutes, which with related provisions
were enacted in 1905. Laws of Washington, 1905, p. 180.
These provisions are set forth in the margin.' They
State of Washington, over and upon which the United States requires rights of way for canals, ditches, laterals and sites for reservoirs and structures appurtenant thereto; and such additional
rights of way and quantities of land as may be required for the
operation and maintenance of the completed works for the said proposed Columbia Basin Project. Please file this notice, together with
the attached list, in your office, as a reservation from sale or other
disposition of such lands, so described, by the State of Washington.
The notice last herein given is in pursuance of Section 3380 of
Pierce's Code (1929).
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.) T. A. WALTERS,
First Assistant Secretary."
B,§ 7410. Exemptions pending federal investigation. Whenever
the secretary ot the interior of the United States, or any officer of
the United States duly authorized, shall notify the commissioner of

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

were manifestly enacted to give authority to the United
States to acquire property for the purposes of irrigation
under the United States Reclamation Act and with the
corresponding limitations. Thus § 7410 (§ 3378 of
Pierce's Code) provides for notice by the Secretary of
the Interior to the Commissioner of Public Lands of
the State that the United States pursuant to the Reclamation Act intends to make examinations or surveys for
the utilization of specified waters. And § 7412 (§ 3380
of Pierce's Code) contemplates the proceeding under the
Reclamation Act as described in § 7410.
public, lands of this state that pursuant to the provisions of the act
of congress approved June 17, 1902,, entitled, 'An act appropriating
the receipts from the sale and disposal of public lands in certain
states and territories to the construction of irrigation works for the
reclamation of arid lands,' or any amendment of said act or substitute therefor, the United States intends to make examinations or
surveys for the utilization of certain specified waters, the waters so
described shall not thereafter be subject to appropriation under any
law of this state for a period of one year from and after the date of
the receipt of such notice by such commissioner of public lands; but
such notice shall not in any wise affect the appropriation of any
water theretofore in good faith initiated under any law of this state,
but such appropriation may be completed in accordance with the
law in the same manner and to the same extent as though such
notice had not been given. No adverse claim to any such waters
initiated subsequent to the receipt by the commissioner of public
lands of such notice shall be recognized, under the laws of this state,
except as to such amount of the waters described in such notice or
certificate hereinafter provided as may be formally released in writing
by a duly authorized officer of the United States. If the said secretary of the interior or other duly authorized officer of the United
States shall, before the expiration of said period of one year, certify
in writing to the said commissioner of public lands that the project
contemplated in such notice appears to be feasible and that the investigation will be made in detail, the waters specified in such notice
shall not be subject to appropriation under any law of this state for
the further period of three years following the date or receipt of such
certificate, and such further time as the commissioner of public lands

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

201

Opinion of the Court.

Section 7411 (§ 3379 of Pierce's Code) refers to the
same sort of proceeding. As to appropriation of water,
it provides that appropriation "by or on behalf of the
may grant, upon application of the United States or some one of
its authorized officers and notice thereof first published once in each
week for four consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the
county where the works for the utilization of such waters are to be
constructed, and if such works are to be in or extend into two or more
counties, then for the. same period in a newspaper in each of such
counties: Provided, that in case such certificate shall not be filed
with said commissioner of public lands within the period of one year
herein limited therefor the waters specified in such notice shall, after
the expiration of said period of one year, become unaffected by such
notice and subject to appropriation as they would have been had
such notice never been given: And provided further, that in case such
certificate be filed within said one year and the United States does
not authorize the construction of works for the utilization of such
waters within said three years after the filing of said certificate, then
the waters specified in such notice and certificate shall, after the expiration of said last named period of three years, become unaffected
by such notice or certificate and subject to appropriation as they
would have been had such notice never been given and such certificate never filed."
"§ 7411. Appropriation-Title to beds and shores. Whenever
said secretary of the interior or other duly authorized officer of the
United States shall cause to be let a contract for the construction -of
any irrigation works or any works for the storage of water for use
in irrigation, or any portion or section thereof, for which the withdrawal has been effected as provided in section 7410, any authorized
officer of the United States, either in the name of the United States
or in such name as may be determined by the secretary of the interior, may appropriate, in behalf of the United States, so much of the
unappropriated waters of the state as may be required for the project,
or projects, for which water has been withdrawn or reserved under
the preceding section of this act, including any and all divisions
thereof, theretofore constructed, in whole or in part, by the United
States or proposed to be thereafter constructed by the United States,
such appropriation to be made, maintained and perfected in the same
manner and to the same extent as though such appropriation had been
made by a private person, corporation or association, except that

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

United States shall inure to the United States, and its
successors in interest, in the same manner and to the
same extent as though said appropriation had.been made
the date of priority as to all rights under such appropriation in behalf
of the United States shall relate back to the date of the first withdrawal or reservation of the waters so appropriated, and in case of
filings on water previously withdrawn under said section 7410, no
payment of fees will be required. Such appropriation by or on behalf
of the United States shall inure to the United States, and its successors in interest, in the same manner and to the same extent as though
said appropriation had been made by a private person, corporation or
association. The title, to the beds and shores of any navigable lake
or stream utilized by the construction of any reservoir or other irrigation works created or constructed as a part of such appropriation
hereinbefore in this section provided for, shall vest in the United
States to the extent .necessary for the maintenance, operation and
control .of such reservoir or other irrigation works."
"§ 7412. Reservation of necessary lands by United States-Procedure. When the notice provided for in section 7410 shall be given
to the commissioner of public lands the proper officers of the United
States may file with the said commissioner a list of lands (including
in the term 'lands' as here used, the beds and shores, of any lake,
river, stream, or other waters) owned by the state, over or upon
which the United States may require rights of way for canals, ditches,
or laterals or 'sites for reseryoirs and structures therefor or appurtenant thereto, or such additional rights of way and quantity of land
as may be required for the operation and maintenance of the completed works for the irrigation project contemplated in guch notice,
and the filing of such list shall constitute a reservation from the sale
or other disposal by the state of such lands so described, which reservation shall, upon the completi6n of such works and upon the
United States by its proper officers filing with the- commissioner of
public lands of the state a description of such lands by metes and
bounds or other definite description, ripen into a grant from the
state to the United States. The state, in the disposal of lands
granted from the United States to the state, shall reserve for the
United States rights of way for ditches, canals, laterals, telephone
and transmission lines which may be required by the United
States for the construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation
works."

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

by a private person, corporation or association." As to
acquisition of title by the United States, it provides:
"The title to the beds and shores of any navigable
lake or stream utilized by the construction of any reservoir or other irrigation works created or%constructed as
a part of such appropriation hereinbefore in this section
provided for, shall vest in the United States to the extent
necessary for the maintenance, operation and control of
such reservoir or other irrigation works."
Neither in the statutes governing the proceeding initiated by the Secretary of the Interior nor in the state
statute was there provision for acquisition by the United
States of exclusive legislative authority over the lands
of the State to which title was thus obtained. This is
true with respect to all the lands mentioned in the S§cretary's notice embracing the bed of the river, the shore
lands and the designated uplands including school lands.
Lands acquired by purchase or condemnation. Appellants contend that exclusive jurisdiction as to these
lands vested ipso facto in the Federal Government by
the operation of Clause 17, § 8, Article I, of the
Federal Constitution, which provides that the Congress shall have power "to exercise exclusive legislation" over "all places purchased by the consent of the
legislature of the State in which the same shall be,
for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yaTds,
and other needful buildings." Considering this provision in James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra, we
construed the phrase "other needful buildings" to-embrace locks and dams and whatever structures are found
to be necessary in the performance of the functions
of the Federal Government. We also concluded that
Clause 17 should not be construed as implying a stipulation that the consent of the State to purchases must be
without reservations. We were unable to reconcile such
an implication with the freedom of the State and its

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

admitted authority to refuse or qualify cessions of jurisdiction when purchases have been made without consent
or property has been acquired by condemnation.
The Statute of Washington which is relied upon as
granting consent and ceding exclusive jurisdiction to the
Federal Government is § 8108 of Remington's Revised
Statutes, the full text of which is quoted in the margin.'
This statute gives consent to the acquisition of lands by
the United States "for the sites of locks, dams, piers,
breakwaters, keepers' dwellings, and other necessary
structures and purposes required in the improvement of
the rivers and harbors of this state, or bordering thereon,
or for the sites of forts, magazines, arsenals, docks, navyyards, naval stations, or other needful buildings authorized by any act of congress." The consent is said to be
given in accordance with the constitutional provision
found in Clause 17 of § 8 of Article I and with the Acts
of Congress in such cases made and provided.
S§ 8108. Consent to acquisition of certain rights by United
States, etc. The consent of the state of Washington be and the
same is hereby given to the acquisition by purchase or by condemnation, under the laws of this state relating to the appropriation of
private property to public uses, by the United States of America,
or under the authority of the same, of any tract, piece, or parcel of
land, from any individual or individuals, bodies politic or corporate,
within the boundaries or limits of this state, for the sites of locks,
dams, piers, breakwaters, keepers' dwellings, and other necessary
structures and purposes required in the improvement of the rivers
and harbors of this state, or bordering thereon, or for the sites of
forts, magazines, arsenals, docks, navy-yards, naval stations, or other
needful buildings authorized by any act of congress, and all deeds,
conveyances of title papers for the same shall be recorded as in
other cases, upon the land records of the county in which the land
so acquired may lie; and in like manner may be recorded a sufficient
description by metes and bounds, courses and distances, of any tract
or tracts, legal divisions or subdivisions of any public land belonging
to the United States, which may be set apart by the general government for any or either of the purposes before mentioned by an order,

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

The statute in terms refers to such acquisition "from
any individual or individuals, bodies politic or corporate,
within the boundaries or limits of this state." This
language is not apt to describe acquisitions from the
State itself. And many years ago (1903) the Supreme
Court of the State so held with respect to the corresponding provisions of the Acts of 1890, p. 459, and 1891, p.
31, embodied in § 8108. State ex rel. Bussell v. Callvert,
33 Wash. 380, 388-390; 74 Pac. 573. Under that construction, the above quoted provisions of § 8108 would
be inapplicable to the acquisition of title to the river
bed shore lands and uplands owned by the State, apart
from our conclusions in the light of the proceedings taken
under the United States Reclamation Act and the pertinent state statute.
With respect to lands acquired from private owners,
the Supreme Court of the State has held in the instant
case that the enterprise of the Federal Government has
a reach which takes it outside the purview of § 8108.
The pith of the decision is that while the statute contemplated the building of locks and dams and other strucpatent, or other official document or papers describing such lands;
the consent herein and hereby given being in accordance with the
seventeenth clause of the eighth -section of the first article of th.
Constitution of the United States, and with the acts of congress in
such cases made and provided; and the jurisdiction of this state is
hereby ceded to the United States of America over all such land or
lands as may have been or may be hereafter acquired by purchase
or by condemnation, or set apart by the general government for any
or either of the purposes before mentioned: Provided, that this state
shall retain a concurrent jurisdiction with the United States in and
over all tracts so acquired or set apart as aforesaid, so far as that all
civil and criminal process that may issue under the authority of this
state against any person or persons charged with crimes committed,
or for any cause of action or suit accruing without the bounds of
any such tract, may be executed therein, in the same manner and
with like effect as though this assent and cession had not been
granted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

tufes required in the improvement of the rivers and
harbors of the State, it did not contemplate the yielding by the State of all legislative authority in connection
with such a project as the Columbia Basin Project embracing "the development of irrigation and of power for
industrial purposes." The state court concluded "that
the purposes of the project, taken as a whole, do not fall
exclusively within any of the enumerated classes mentioned above [in the statute], so as to 'give the United
States exclusive jurisdiction over the lands, but rather
in a class where several purposes are so intermingled as
to call for the exercise of jurisdiction by both the federal
government and the state, according as their respective
interests and duties require." Ryan v. State, supra, p.
1284.
Considering the scope of the federal undertaking, we
cannot say that this construction of § 8108 is inadmissible.
Thus irrigation-"the reclamation of arid and semi-arid
lands"-is an integral part of the federal plan and the
reservoirs for the storage of water were to be provided
with that end in view. That was set forth as one of the
main objectives, as well as the development of power, in
the Declaration of Taking filed in the federal court in the
condemnation proceedings, and whatever may be said
of power development so far as it is incidental to the improvement of navigation, the reclamation of arid or semiarid lands has always been regarded as a project which
carried with it an appropriate recognition of a continued
state jurisdiction. Kansas v. Colorado, supra; Nebraska
v. Wyoming, supra. We cannot say that the state statute, enacted in 1891, must be taken as conclusively showing an intent to yield exclusive jurisdiction in such a case.
Assuming that because of the presence of the federal question we are at liberty to construe-the statute for ourselves, we should, in harmony with our principles of
decision in such cases, give great weight to the views of

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

the state court as to the intent and limitations of the
state statute in granting consent and cession. See Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587, 595, 596;
Milwaukee ElectricRy. & L. Co. v. Railroad Commission,
238 U. S. 174, 184; Phelps v. Board of Education, 300
U. S. 319, 322; Dodge v. Board of Education, ante, p.
74. We should accept that construction unless we are
satisfied that it does violence to federal right based upon
the statute, defeating the reasonable anticipation and
purpose of securing' through the operation of the statute
an essential and exclusive legislative authority for the
Federal Government.
Not only do we find no violence done to federal right or
frustration of federal intent by the State's construction
of its statute, but the evidence is clear that the Federal
Government contemplated the continued existence of
state jurisdiction consistent with federal functions and
invited the coiperation of the State in providing an
appropriate exercise of local authority over the territory.
Even if it were assumed that the state statute should
be construed to apply to the federal acquisitions here involved, we should still be met by the contention of the
Government that it was not compelled to accept, and has
not accepted, a transfer of exclusive jurisdiction. As such
a transfer rests upon a grant by the State, through consent or cession, it follows, in accordance with familiar principles applicable to grants, that the grant may be accepted or declined. Acceptance may be presumed in the
absence of evidence of a contrary intent, but we know of
no constitutional principle which compels acceptance by
the United States of an exclusive jurisdiction contrary
to its own conception of its interests. The mere fact that
the Government needs title to property within the boundaries of a State, which may be acquired irrespective of
the consent of the State (Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S.
367, 371, 372), does not necessitate the assumption by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Government of the burdens incident to an exclusive jurisdiction. We have frequently said that our system of government is a practical adjustment by which the national
authority may be maintained in its full scope without
unnecessary loss of local efficiency. In acquiring property, the federal function in view may be performed without disturbing the local administration in matters which
may still appropriately pertain to state authority. In
our opinion in James v. Dravo Contratting Co., supra,
we observed that the possible importance of reserving to
the State jurisdiction for local purposes which involve no
interference with the-performance of governmental functions is becoming more and more clear as the activities
of the Government expand and large areas within the
States are acquired. And we added that there appeared
to be no reason why the United States should be compelled to accept exclusive jurisdiction or the State be compelled to grant it in giving its consent to purchases.
The federal intent in this instance is clearly shown.
It is shown not merely by the action of administrative
officials, but by the deliberate and ratifying action of
Congress, which gives the force of law to the prior
official action even if unauthorized when taken. Swayne
& Hoyt v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, 301, 302.
As Congress validated and ratified "all contracts"
which have been executed in connection with the
Grand Coulee Dam project, we are at liberty to refer
to the terms of these contracts as manifesting the intention of Congress no less than that of the officers who
executed them. These contracts with appellants were
made in full appreciation of the inevitable creation,
through the carrying out of this project, of a large local
community within the area acquired by the United
States, with residents whose needs could be suitably
served by the administration of the laws of the State
without interfering in any way with the execution of the

MASON CO. v. TAX COMM'N.
186

Opinion of the Court.

federal plan. School facilities were to be, and have been,
provided by arrangements with the local authorities.
Police protection was to be, and has been, assured by cooperation with the State Patrol. Cognizance of crimes
committed within the area has been taken by local prosecutors and judicial officers. It is futile to say that these
local authorities became federal authorities pro hac vice,
for the contracts which have been ratified by Congress
manifestly contemplated action by the local officers as
representatives of the State and as acting in the exercise
of state jurisdiction.
In particular, appellants' contracts assumed that state
jurisdiction would extend to activities of the contractors.
They were to obtain all required licenses and permits.
Compensation insurance under the laws of the State was
to be provided for their employees. State building regulations were to be obeyed. The rules of the local Department of Health were to be observed in the discharge of
sewage into the river. We are at a loss to understand
how the continued jurisdiction of the State without conflicting with federal operations could have been more fully
recognized, 6r the assumption of exclusive legislative authority by the United States more effectively disclaimed,
than by the action of Congress in ratifying the provisions of these contracts.
Appellants' argument comes to this-that we must not
only override the construction of the state statute by the
state court but that we must construe the statute as
compelling the Federal Government to assume an exclusive legislative authority which it did not need, which
it has not accepted or exercised, and against the burden
of which it has sought to protect itself by securing state
co~peration in accordance with the express authorization
of Congress. We find no warrant for such action.
Indian tribal lands. What has been said also disposes
of the contention in relation to this part of the area.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Appellants say that title was originally in the United
States for the benefit of Indians on the Colville Reservation. Executive Order of July 2, 1872. While at a
later date the lands were opened for entry (Act of
March 22, 1906, 34 Stat. 80; Proclamation of the President, May 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 1778) it appears that they
were withdrawn before any entry was made. Appellants concede that title to these lands has always been
in the United States and hence could not have been acquired by purchase or condemnation. But with respect
to such lands exclusive legislative authority would be
obtained by the United States only through cession by
the State. Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, supra, p. 651.
If they may be deemed to be within the reference in
§ 8108 to "public land" which "may be set apart by the
general government" for the purposes "before mentioned," we are brought back to the questions already
discussed and we need not consider the question whether
these lands had in fact been set apart in the prescribed
manner.
Our conclusion is that the State had territorial jurisdiction to impose the tax upon appellants' receipts and
that the tax does not lay an unconstitutional burden
upon the Federal Government.
The respective judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissent

for the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion in James
v. Dravo ContractingCo., ante, p. 161.

