OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

CHRISTOPHER ET AL. v. BRUSSELBACK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 108.

FOR THE

Argued December 16, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. Sec. 16 of the Federal Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916, declares
that shareholders of every joint stock land bank organized under
the Act shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably,
and not one for another, for the debts of the bank to the extent
of the amount of stock owned by them at the par value thereof,
in addition to the amount paid in and represented by their
shares. Held:
(1) That the only means of enforcing the liability for creditors
is an adversary suit in equity against the stockholders wherever
they may be found. P. 502.
(2) The liability of each stockholder is personal, enforceable only
in a court having jurisdiction to render a judgment against him
in personam, and a judicial determination of the inability of the
bank to pay its debts and of the amount to be assessed against the
stockholders to meet the deficiency are prerequisites to the enforcement of liability, and are essential parts of the only cause of
action which the statute gives to the creditors. Id.
(3) A bill against stockholders which sought to collect an
assessment decreed in another suit but which showed on its face
that, though named as defendants, they were not served with
process in that suit, and which omitted to allege the existence
and extent of insolvency of the bank, failed to state a cause of
action. P. 502.
2. The purpose of Equity Rule 38, providing that in a class suit
"one or more may sue or defend for the whole," was procedural,
not to enlarge jurisdiction of federal courts. P. 505.
3. This rule *preserves the jurisdiction of federal courts of equity in
a class suit to render a decree binding upon absent defendants
affecting their interest in property within the jurisdiction of the
court. P. 505.
87 F. (2d) 761, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 672, to review the reversal of a
judgment for stockholders of a Federal Joint Stock Land
Bank, the present petitioners, in a suit against them by the

CHRISTOPHER v. BRUSSELBACK.
500

Opinion of the Court.

creditors of the bank, the respondents here, to collect a
stockholders' liability assessment.
Mr. Wellmore B. Turner, with whom Messrs. Roy G.
Fitzgerald, Robert E. Cowden, Howard P. Williamson,
Joseph W. Sharts, Evgene G. Kennedy, Irvin G. Bieser,
F. N. R. Redfern and James E. Thomas were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Mr. J. Arthur Miller for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents, creditors of a Federal Joint Stock Land
Bank located in Illinois, brought the present suit in the district court for southern Ohio to collect a 100% assessment
of the statutory double liability of its shareholders, which
had previously been decreed in a suit brought by respondents in the district court for northern Illinois. In the
Illinois suit the bank and all its stockholders were named
as parties defendant, but the present defendants, petitioners here, who are stockholders residing in Ohio, were
not served with process. A motion in the district court
to dismiss the present suit raised the question whether
the bill of complaint, which sets up the decree of the
court in the Illinois suit in which it states petitioners
were not served with process, but does not allege that the
bank is insolvent or show any necessity for the assessment, states a cause of action. The district court gave
judgment for petitioners which the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit reversed. Brusselback v. Arnovitz,
87 F. (2d) 761. We granted certiorari, to resolve a conflict between the decision of the court below and that of
the Court.of Appeals for the second Circuit in Holmberg
v. Carr, 86 F. (2d) 727. Compare Brusselback v. Cago
Corporation,85 F. (2d) 20.
The question decisive of the case is whether petitioners
are bound by the Illinois adjudication, in their absence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

of the bank's insolvency, and the amount of the assessment. Section 16, Federal Farm Loan Act, July 17, 1916,
c. 245, 39 Stat. 360, 374, 12 U. S. C. § 812, provides,
"Shareholders of every joint stock land bank organized
under this Act shall be held individually responsible,
equally and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such bank to the extent
of the amount of stock owned by them at the par value
thereof, in addition to the amount paid in and represented
by their shares."
Before respondents had brought the Illinois suit this
Court in Wheeler v. Greene, 280 U. S. 49, had before it
the provisions of the Federal Farm Loan Act which
authorize the Farm Loan Board to declare a Joint Stock
Land Bank insolvent, and to place it in the hands of a
receiver. § 29, Federal Farm Loan Act, July 17, 1916;
c. 245, 39 Stat. 381; 12 U. S. C. §§ 961, 963. We held
that those provisions do not confer upon the Federal
Farm Loan Board any power to levy an assessment on
the 'stockholders, or give to the receiver authority to
maintain suit for the enforcement of their statutory liability, or otherwise set up any machinery comparable
to that of the National Banking Act for enforcing the
stockholders' liability. Compare Rankin v. Barton, 199
U. S. 228, 232; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, 681. The
only means of enforcing the liability left to creditors of
a Joint Stock Land Bank, as the Court pointed out in
the Wheeler case, is an adversary suit in equity against
the stockholders wherever they may be found.
The obligation which the statute imposes upon the
stockholders is personal, and petitioners *can be held to
respond to it only by a suit maintained in a court having
jurisdiction to render a judgment against them in per,sonam. As the liability of the stockholders is to pay
the debts of the bank to creditors "equally and ratably,"
judicial determination of the inability of the bank to pay

CHRISTOPHER v. BRUSSELBACK.
500

Opinion of the Court.

its debts and the amount to be assessed against the stockholders to meet the deficiency are prerequisites to the
enforcement of liability, and are essential parts of the
only cause of action which the statute gives to the creditors. It is plain that in such a suit the existence and
extent of insolvency are facts, the allegation and proof of
which cannot be dispensed with as to any stockholder
unless, as between the parties to the suit, they are matters
already adjudicated.
A stockholder is so far an integral part of the corporation of which he is a member, that he may be bound
and his rights foreclosed by authorized corporate action
taken without his knowledge or participation. Sanger
v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56, 58. The subscriber to corporate
stock, whose subscription is payable on call of the directors, as required for corporate purposes, is bound by the
action of the board in making the call as he is bound by
a valid decree of a court against the corporation, although
made in his absence, which directs performance of the
corporate duty to make the call. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131
U. S. 319, 329; Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy,
162 U. S.329, 336; cf. Kerrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155.
Similarly, where a procedure is authorized by statute,
under 'which a corporation may be brought into court
for determination of its insolvency and the amount to be
assessed against stockholders for the payment of its debts,
and the judgment is declared by statute to be binding
upon them, they are deemed by virtue of their membership in the corporation to have so far subjected themselves to the prescribed procedure and its consequences
as to be bound by the determination although not
nominal parties to the proceeding. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S.
243; Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U. §. 652; Matin v. Augedahl,
247 U. S. 142; Chandler v. Peketz, 297 U. S.609.
Whether it be said that by purchasing or retaining his
stock in the face of such a procedure the stockholder has

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

consented that the corporation represent him for the purposes of the adjudication, Bernheimer v. Converse, supra,
529, 532, 533; Matin v. Augedahl, supra, 150, or more
realistically that as stockholder he has voluntarily assumed
a corporate relationship which is subject to the local regulatory power, in the exercise of which the procedure has
been attached, as an incident, to his membership in the
corporation, Converse v. Hamilton, supra, 260, in either
case the procedure conforms to accepted principles, involves no want of due process, Converse v. Hamilton,
supra; &lig v. Hamilton, supra; Chandler v. Peketz,
supra, and at least when it ripens into a judgment is entitled to full faith and credit. Matin v. Augedahl, supra.
It is enough that in every case the stockholder has assumed or retained his membership in the corporation
after the warning of the statute, or of rules governing
the corporation, of which he knew or had opportunity to
know, that the benefits of membership carry with them
the risk that the corporation may stand ih judgment for
him.
In the present case no such warning has been given, for
no such procedure has been prescribed. The statutes
have fixed only the conditions on which liability of the
stockholders is td attach, leaving to creditors as their only
recourse the usual procedure of courts as the means of
asserting the liability. There is nothing in the statute
relating to the organization of Federal Land Banks and
the imposition of the stockholders' liability to suggest
that by virtue of their membership in the corporation the
stockholders can be said to have subjected themselves to a
procedure for determining in their absence the essential
conditions of liability, or to have relinquished their right
to contest, as in any other litigation, every step essential
to its establishment. As we cannot say that petitioners'
membership in the bank was conditioned upon their surrender of the benefits of a procedure which would other-

CHRISTOPHER v. BRUSSELBACK.
500

Opinion of the Court.

wise be required, there is no basis for a court to dispense
with it more than in other cases in which a personal
judgment is sought.
Equity Rule 38, providing that in a class suit "one or
more may sue or defend for the whole," was adopted
in the exercise of the authority conferred on this Court
by R. S. § 913, and of its own inherent power to regulate
by rules "the modes of proceeding in suits of equity."
Their purpose was to prescribe the procedure in equity
to be followed in cases within the jurisdiction of the
federal courts and not to enlarge their jurisdiction. The
omission from old Rule 48, amended and promulgated as
Rule 38 in 1912, 226 U. S. 659, of the phrase " . . . the
decree shall be without prejudice to the rights and claims
of all the absent parties" preserved unimpaired the jurisdiction of federal courts of equity in a class suit to render
a decree binding upon absent defendants affecting their
interest in property within the jurisdiction of the court.
Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288; cf. Hartford Life Ins.
Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, 672.
In the circumstances the decree in the Illinois suit was
not res adjudicata as to petitioners in any respect. For
that reason the bill of complaint failed to state a cause
of action, and the decree is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

