464

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES, FEDERAL
EMERGENCY ADMINISTRATOR OF PUBLIC
WORKS, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 84 and 85.

Argued December 6, 7, 1937.-Decided
January 3, 1938.

1. An electric power company, operating in Alabama under a nonexclusive franchise, sued to enjoin the performance of agreements
whereby a federal official purporting to act under Title II of the
National Industrial Recovery Act, as amended, undertook on behalf
of the United States to make loans and grants of money to several
Alabama municipalities to assist each of them, respectively, in
constructing an electrical distribution system within its municipal
limits. Held that the company had no standing to question the
validity of the loans and grants under the federal statute, or the
validity of the statute in that regard under the Federal Constitution, since the only damAge threatening the company was the
damage of lawful competition-damnum absque injuria. Pp. 478,
479.
According to the findings in the cases each of the municipalities had authority to construct -and operate its proposed plant
and distribution system in competition with the company, and to
borrow money for that purpose, and had determined to do so of
its own free will; no conspiracy was involved, nor any desire
to cause injury or financial loss to the company, nor purpose to
regulate rates or foster municipal ownership of utilities. Neither
the United States nor any of the respondent-officers had reserved
any right to require an elimination of competition or designate any
agency from which the municipality must purchase its power.
Each municipality was left entirely free from federal control or
direction in respect of the management and control of its plant
and business.
2. Findings of the District Court, made after hearing, supported by
substantial evidence, and not questioned by the intermediate
appellate court, held unassailable in this Court. P. 477.
3. The interest of a taxpayer in the moneys of the federal treasury
affords him no status to enjoin expenditures upon the ground that
they are for an unconstitutional purpose. P. 478.

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES.
464

Argument for Petitioner.

4. Courts have no power to enjoin the execution of an Act of
Congress upon the ground of unconstitutionality, where no wrong
directly resulting in the violation of a legal right is presented in a
justiciable issue. P. 479.
67 App. D. C. 230; 91 F. (2d) 303, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 681, to review decrees affirming

the dismissal of bills brought against the Emergency
Public Works Administrator and other Government
officials to restrain the making of loans and grants of
money to certain municipalities in Alabama, in aid of the
construction of municipal light and power plants. These
cases were consolidated and tried with others which later
became moot. No. 84 also became moot in so far as it
related to three of the municipalities originally named in
the bill. The opinion of the District Court is in LXIV
Wash. L. Rep. 563.
Mr. William H. Thompson, with whom Messrs. Perry
W. Turner, Newton D. Baker, R. T. Jackson, Dean
Acheson, Thomas V. Koykka, Wayne G. Cook and J.
Harry Covington were on the brief, for petitioner.
I. The petitioner has shown facts which entitle it to
question the legality of the respondents' acts.
The respondents have argued in the lower courts that
the test of whether they owe a duty to the petitioner to
refrain from the acts threatened-admitting for the purpose of this argument that they are unauthorized-is
whether private individuals would incur liability from
committing them. They argue that the respondents,
stripped of legal authority, are merely private individuals
and that the rights and duties of the parties must be
determined by principles applicable in suits between one
private individual and another.
The argument is as unsound in principle as it is opposed to authority. In many cases the act of the officer,
if unauthorized, would fit into such common forms of

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

302 U. S.

action as trespass, but in a great and growing field of
activity an Officer acting under color of authority is not
acting as a private person, the consequences of his acts
are not the same as those of a private person, and no
private person could conceivably propose to act in the
same way. In short, 'the argument is wholly verbal and
unrealistic.
But the error in principle goes deeper. The argument
assumes that the legal principles determinative of the
standing of the plaintiff to question the legality of acts
of a public officer should be those which have been
evolved to determine rights to recover against a private
person. Nothing could be more fallacious. The principles determining the right to recover against private
persons are the result of long and careful evaluation of the conflicting interests of private persons.
A rule of law which makes the difference between
victory for the plaintiff and victory for the defendant represents the accumulated wisdom of courts and
legislatures as to how private persons should live together
and how loss, as between them, should be borne. These
issues involve basic considerations of policy; but to make
that same policy determinative of the right to question
the statutory authority of a public officer disregards vital
differences.
The considerations which should be, and have been,
determinative with courts in formulating the principles
affecting the right of private persons to question the authority of public officers are the necessity of affording protection against injury resulting from abuse of authority,
while avoiding officious and burdensome litigation, and
the assertion of fanciful wrongs and insubstantial injuries.
Recognizing, as they should and must, this vital difference
in the function and purpose of the rules involved in determining when a plaintiff may question the authority of a
public officer and when he may recover from another pri-

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES.
464

Argument for Petitioner.

vate individual, courts have not, as respondents argue,
blindly confused the two, but in determining the former
have referred to the latter merely as a guide, by analogy,
to types of injuries to plaintiffs of which the law will
take note. See Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
In PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 621, the
Secretary of War, if he had. been a private citizen, would
have incurred no liability by threatening suits to enforce
a harbor line which he had drawn. Similarly private persons would have owed no duty to the plaintiff which
would have been violated by the acts threatened by the
public officers in Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S.
510 or Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, or Hammer v.
Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251, or Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
In Santa Fe Pacific R. Co. v. Lane, 244 U. S. 492, if the
Secretary of the Interior had been a private individual,
and asserted a claim unauthorized in amount for surveying public land before issuing a patent-if the situation
can be imagined-no legal duty to plaintiff would have
been violated. Similarly in Ludwig v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146, the plaintiff sued to enjoin
a state official from declaring that it was without authority to do business in the State-an act which no private
individual could perform, and which if threatened would
not involve liability.
In all these cases the principle entitling the plaintiffs to
question the officials' authority is the same-the plaintiffs
had a right to hold their property, or conduct their business, free from injury by public officials through acts done
without lawful power and in abuse of authority. Public
officials owe a duty to refrain from interfering with the
property or business of the plaintiffs and from injuring
them therein without authority or in abuse of it. When
an act, in violation of this duty, will be the proximate
cause of consequences to the plaintiff so substantial and
onerous as to be comparable to injuries which the law is

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

302 U. S.

accustomed to note as legal damage, a cause of action
arises, with the right to an injunction.
The rule is no different when the injury flows from an
unauthorized use of the spending power. There the plaintiff also establishes his right to question the authority of
the officer if he is--"able to show not only that the statute
is invalid but that he has sustained or is immediately in
danger of sustaining some direct injury as the result of its
enforcement, and not merely that he suffers in some
indefinite way in common with people generally."
Frothinghamv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488.
This petitioner has shown just such immediate threat
of direct and special injury. In the present cases the
Administrator has authorized, for purposes which he
claims are authorized by law, the construction, as federal
public works projects, under his supervision and with
funds provided by him, of facilities which are intended to
supplant the petitioner's, and which must do so if the
loans contemplated are to be repaid. It is this action of
his, in causing the construction for alleged federal purposes and with federal funds, which threatens the petitioner's business with destruction. The elimination of
the petitioner from the towns is essential to the financing
of the projects. The towns have already provided for
this elimination. In the words of their own officials, they
intend to supplant the petitioner's distribution systems.
It is equally plain that construction of each supplanting system is to be undertaken as a federal public-works
project, subsidized by the Administrator. The purpose
of the public-works program was to cause construction
which would not otherwise take place. We refer to the
official declaration of PWA that the public grants "are
given to induce public bodies to undertake construction
of useful works."
The fact that the impact of the injury upon the petitioner will be produced by action of the towns does not

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES.
464

Argument for Petitioner.

render the Administrator immune from petitioner's suit.
The fact remains that he is the proximate and moving
cause of the injury which it will suffer solely because of
his unlawful acts in authorizing and financing these particular federal public-works projects with gifts and revenue loans, the repayment of which contemplates and requires the destruction of petitioner's business in the towns.
It is well settled that where one without warrant or
justification in law, induces and enables another to inflict
injury on a third party the wrongdoer is liable even
though the intervening party may act within his legal
rights. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245
U. S. 229, 251-252; Walker v. Cronin, 107 Mass. 555;
Thacker Coal Co. v. Burke, 59 W. Va. 253; Deon v. Kirby
Lumber Co., 162 La. 671; U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.
v. Millonas, 206 Ala. 147; Gibson v. Fidelity and Casualty
Co., 232 Ill. 49; Rice v. Manley, 66 N. Y. 82; Benton v.
Pratt, 2 Wend. 386; compare Angle v. Chicago, St. Paul,
M. & 0. Ry. Co., 151 U. S. 1, 12-13, 22, 23. As the trial
court concluded, ". . . the furnishing of the funds by
the Government and the resulting competition are
so closely connected that, if the statute under which the
funds are supplied is unconstitutional, or if the officer
furnishing the funds is not authorized to do so, then the
plaintiffs may test those questions on the merits." Cf.
Greenwood County v. Duke Power Co., 81 F. (2d) 986,
1001, 1002; Ho Ah Kow v. Nunan, 12 Fed. Cas. No. 6,546,
at p. 255.
The respondents' acts are the proximate cause of the
petitioner's injury since that injury is the inevitable and
contemplated result of the authorization of the projects;
indeed, is essential to their accomplishment as planned.
The petitioner's business must be taken from it in order
to repay the Administrator.
The respondents do not and cannot argue that because the intervening acts of third persons are lawful,

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

302 U. S.

resulting consequences to a plaintiff cannot be legal injury. The cases cited supra negative any such argument. Nor can they argue that the consequences to
the petitioner do not constitute legal injury because they
reach the petitioner through the competition of a rival.
That the injury from competition is injury recognized
by the law was expressly held by this Court in Walla
Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 11.
Similarly in Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278
U. S. 515..
The respondents' argument seems to be that because
the intervening act, which finally produces the injury, is
legal competition, the consequences are not legal injury.
Here, again, as might be expected, both authority and
reason are against such an argument. See Colorado
Central Power Co. v. Municipal Power Development Co.,
1 F. Supp. 961; Campbell v. Arkansas-MissouriPower Co.,
55 F. (2d) 560; cf. Oklahoma Utilities Co. v. Hominy,
2 F. Supp. 849; see also Iowa Southern Utilities Co. v.
Cassill, 69 F. (2d) 703; Gallardo v. Porto Rico Ry. L.
& P. Co., 18 F. (2d) 918, and Citizens Electric Illuminating Co. v. Lackawanna & W. V. Power Co., 255 Pa. 145.
Thus the argument that the petitioner has no standing to complain if subsequent operation of the plants by
the towns is lawful falls to the ground. The petitioner
can complain, regardless of the lawfulness of the operation,
if the acts which cause it are in violation of law. The
Administrator owes the petitioner a duty not to cause
petitioner injury by'acts done beyond and without authority in law. If he breaches that duty, it avails him nothing that the impact of the injury comes from operation
of the plants by third parties which may be lawful. It is
the unlawfulness of his acts and not of the towns' acts
of whicb petitioner complains. This is not a suit to
enjoin competition by the towns. They will be as free
after as before any decree entered herein to engage in it.

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES.
464

Argument for Respondent.

This is a suit to enjoin the unlawful acts of the Administrator which cause the injury to petitioner and which
breach the duty which he owes them.
II. Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act,
and the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935,
are unconstitutional delegations of legislative power.
III. The'loans and grants are, unauthorized because the
Administrator in approving them has applied a standard or criterion which Congress has not provided and
could not.
IV. If the statutes be construed to authorize what has
been done here, they exceed any power delegated to the
Federal Government and violate the Tenth Amendment.
Messrs. Jerome N. Frank and Solicitor General Reed,
with whom Attorney General Cummings, Assistant
Attorney General Morris, and Messrs. Enoch E. Ellison
and Robert E. Sher were on the brief, for the respondent
Administrator.
Petitioner has no standing to challenge the constitutional and statutory validity of the proposed loans and
grants. That conclusion, reached by the court below,
accords with the decisions of every other appellate
court which has passed upon the question. Duke Power
Co. v. Greenwood County, 91 F. (2d) 665; ArkansasMissouri Power Company v. Kennett, 78 F. (2d) 911
(C. C. A. 8th); Allegan v. Consumers Power Co., 71 F.
(2d) 477 (C. C. A. 6th), certiorari denied, 293 U. S. 586;
Kansas Utilities Co. v. Burlington, 141 Kans. 926, petition for certiorari dismissed on motion of petitioner, 296
U. S. 658. A contrary result would establish either a new
doctrine of private law, enlarging the rights of franchise
holders against lawful competition, or a new doctrine of
public law with respect to the action of Government
officers.
The loss with which petitioners are threatened is attributable to the competition of the cities, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Respondent.

302 U. S.

competition is voluntary and is admittedly lawful under
the law of Alabama and under the Fourteenth Amendment. The standing of petitioner, as the holder of nonexclusive franchises, is limited to complaints against
unauthorized or illegal competition, as in Frost v.
Corporation Commission, 278 U. S. 515. Cases in which
a city is acting in violation of its own charter powers,
such as Campbell v. Arkansas-Missouri Power Co., 55 F.
(2d) 560 (C. C. A. 8th), have no application, as was
recognized by the same court in the later Arkansas-Missouri Power Co. case, supra.
The fact that the competition will be made possible
by advances of funds alleged to be beyond the lawful
authority of the lender cannot serve to confer additional
protection upon the petitioner. Cf. RailroadCo. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166; Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281
U. S. 249; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258. And
the fact that the lender is the United States is likewise
not material. Since no legally protected interest of petitioner will be infringed, there is no occasion for the defendant to justify the proposed loans and grants by showing the authority of a valid statute. That the suit is
brought against Government officers, so far from enlarging the standing of the petitioner, discloses the deficiency
in its claim; for in such suits the officer is required to show
valid authority only if his acts, viewed as those of a
private individual, would constitute an invasion of an
interest which the law would otherwise protect or which
has been especially conferred by statute. In re Ayers,
123 U. S.443; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Ex parte
La Prade, 289 U. S.444. Cases holding that a defendant
is answerable where he has induced another, by fraud
or intimidation or with a solely malicious motive, to cause
damage to a plaintiff, have no application to the cases
at bar.
The proposed' loans and grants are authorized by the
statutes.

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES.
464

Opinion of the Court.

The statutes do not unlawfully delegate legislative
power to the Administrator.
The statutory provisions are a legitimate exercise' of
the power to appropriate money to promote the general
welfare.
There is no invasion of the reserved powers of the
States.
The alleged improper purpose, motive or standard of
the Administrator is irrelevant.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases involve certain "loan-and-grant agreements" made by the Federal Emergency Administrator
of Public Works with four municipal corporations located
in the State of Alabama. The bills of complaint sought to
enjoin the execution of these agreements. Each agreement conitemplates thd construction of an electricitydistribution system by the designated municipality, and,.to
that end, the purchase, by the administrator, of bonds to
be issued by the municipality and secured by a first pledge
of the revenues derived from the operation of the system.
In No. 84 thirty and in No. 85 forty-five per cent. of the
cost of the labor and materials used in the construction
are to be donated outright. The authority relied upon
for the loans and grants is that contained in Title II of the
National Industrial Recovery Act ' as modified and continued by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of
1935.'- Title I of the former act has been declared unconstitutional by this court. Schechter Corp. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 495; Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388. But we are here concerned not with Title I
' C. 90, 48 Stat. 195, 200.
48, 49 Stat. 115, 119.

2 C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

but with Title II of the act. So far as material, that title
provides:
"Sec. 202. The Administrator, under the direction of
the President, shall prepare a comprehensive program of
public works, which shall include among other things the
following: (a) Construction, repair, and improvement of
public highways and park ways, public buildings, and any
publicly owned instrumentalities and facilities; (b) conservation and development of natural resources, including control, utilization, and purification of waters, prevention of soil or coastal erosion, development of water
power, transmission of electrical energy, . . . ; (c)any
projects of the character heretofore constructed or carried on either directly by public authority or with public
aid to serve the interests of the general public; (d) construction, reconstruction, alteration, or repair under public
regulation or control of low-cost housing and slum-clearance projects; (e)any project (other than those included
in the foregoing classes) of any character Hleretofore
eligible for loans under subsection (a) of section 201 of
the Emergency Relief and Construction Act of 1932, as
amended, . . .

"Sec. 203. (a) With a view to increasing employment
quickly (while reasonably securing any loans made by
the United States) the President is authorized and empowered, through the Administrator or through such
other agencies as he may designate or create, (1) to construct, finance, or aid in the construction or financing of
any public-works project included in the program prepared pursuant to section 202; (2) upon such terms as
the President shall prescribe, to make grants to States,
municipalities, or other public bodies for the construction,
repair, or improvement of any such project, but no
such grant shall be in excess of 30 [by later act 45]
per centum of the cost of the labor and materials employed upon such project; . .

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES
464

Opinion of the Court.

The bills of complaint challenge the validity of the
loans and grants on the grounds, among others, that these
statutory provisions purporting to authorize such loans
and grants are unconstitutional; and that, in any event,
the loans and grants do not come within the statutory
provisions.
The injury which petitioner will suffer, it is contended,
is the loss of its business as a result of the use of the loans
and grants by the municipalities in setting up and maintaining rival and competing plants; a result, it is -further contended, which will be directly caused by the unlawful act of the administrator in making and consummating the loan-and-grant agreements.
The suits were brought in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia. There, the respondents, in addition to defending the validity of the action
of the administrator, contended that petitioner was without legal standing to maintain the suits. After a full
hearing, the district court held that petitioner had standing to challenge the administrator's action, but denied
the injunctions and dismissed the bills of complaint upon
the view that the statutory provisions were constitutional
ancthat they conferred upon the administrator the power
which he had exercised.
On appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, that court found it unnecessary
to consider the validity of the loans and grants, and affirmed the decrees of the district court dismissing the bills
on the ground that no legal or equitable right of the power
company had been invaded, and the company, therefore,
was without standing to challenge the validity of the ad-.
ministrator's acts. 91 F. (2d) 303. With that view we
agree, and confine our consideration of the cases
accordingly.
The trial court made elaborate findings, but for present
purposes the following is all that need be stated. Peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

tioner is a corporation organized under the laws of Alabama, having its principal office and corporate domicile
in that state. Respondent Ickes is the Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works,
duly appointed by the President of the United States in
pursuance of law. The other respondents are subordinate
officers and agents of the same Emergency Administration, or officers connected with its operations.
Petitioner, under its charter, has the right to manufacture, supply and sell electrical energy throughout the
State of Alabama. Among other communities served by
its system are the four municipalities here involved, from
each of which it has a non-exclusive franchise giving it the
right to construct, maintain and operate within the
municipality an electricity-distribution system. Petitioner is a taxpayer of each of the municipalities, of the
counties in which they are located, and of the state, with
respect to petitioner's properties and operations; and it
also is a taxpayer of the United States with respect
thereto.
Each of the municipalities is authorized under state
law to construct and operate municipal electric plants and
distribution systems, and to engage in competition with
petitioner. Each is authorized to issue bonds for the purpose of financing the construction of such plants and to
receive grants for that purpose; to mortgage its plant
or any part of it and to pledge all or any part of the
revenues derived from the operation of the plant as
security for the loan' In each municipality an election
was held prior to the making of the loan agreements, at
which it was determined by a majority of the qualified
voters that the municipality should engage in the electric
business. The district court further found"Each of the municipalities involved in this suit determined to enter into the electric distribution business of
See Oppenheim v. City of Florence, 229 Ala. 50; 155 So. 859.

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES
464

Opinion of the Court.

its own free will. There was no solicitation or coercion
on the part of any of the defendants [respondents], their
agents or subordinates. There was and is no conspiracy
between any of the defendants and any other person,
nor is there any other effort on the part of any of the
defendants to, nor are their actions motivated by a desire
to, cause injury or financial loss to the plaintiffs, or to
regulate their rates or electric rates generally, or to foster
municipal ownership of utilities.
"The expenditures under these statutes involve no
purchase of, nor contract providing for, regulation by the
United States. The failure of any city to apply for or
receive loans or grants under those statutes will impose
upon it no disadvantage or financial loss.
"The defendants have not reserved any right or power
to influence or control rates to be charged by the proposed municipal power plants ...
"Neither the United States nor any of the defendants
has reserved any right or power under the existing contracts, or in any other way, to require any of the municipalities to eliminate competition or to designate the
person or agency from whom the municipality must purchase its power. . ..
"Neither the United States nor any of the defendants
has any power to control the operation of the projects
after construction is completed. ...
"Each of the projects herein involved is a part of a
program of national scope, is designed to relieve unemployment, and promotes the general welfare of the United
States."
These findings were made, after hearing, by the district judge upon undisputed or conflicting evidence. The
findings were not questioned by the court below; and
since they are not without substantial support in the evidence, we accept them here as unassailable. Davis v.
Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 636-637; Adamson v. Gilliland,
242 U. S. 350, 353.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

It, therefore, appears that each of the municipalities
in question has authority to construct and operate its
proposed plant and distribution system in competition
with petitioner, and to borrow money, issue bonds and
receive grants for that purpose; that it determined to do so
of its own free will, without solicitation or coercion; that
there was no conspiracy between any of the respondents
and any other person, or any effort or action motivated
by a desire to cause injury or financial loss to petitioner, or any purpose to regulate rates or foster municipal ownership of utilities. It further appears that neither
the United States nor any of the respondents has reserved
any right or power to require an elimination of competition or designate any agency from which the municipality
must purchase its power. Each municipality is left
entirely free from federal control or direction in respect
of the management and control of its plant and business.
In short, the case for petitioner comes down to the contention that consummation of the loan-and-grant agreements should be enjoined on the sole and detached ground
that the administrator lacks constitutional and statutory
authority to make them, and that the resulting moneys,
which the municipalities have clear authority to take, will
be used by the municipalities in lawful, albeit destructive,
competition with petitioner.
First. Unless a different conclusion is required from the
mere fact that petitioner will sustain financial loss by reason of the lawful competition which will result from the
use by the municipalities of the proposed loans and
grants, it is clear that petitioner has no such interest and
will sustain no such legal injury as enables it to maintain
the present suits. Petitioner alleges that it is a taxpayer;
but the interest of a taxpayer in the moneys of the federal treasury furnishes no basis for an appeal to the preventive powers of a court of equity. Massachusetts v.
Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 486 et seq. The principle estab-

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES
464

Opinion of the Court.

lished by the case just cited is that the courts have no
power to consider in isolation and annul an act of Congress on the ground that it is unconstitutional; but may
consider that question "only when the justification for
some direct injury suffered or threatened, presenting a
justiciable issue, is made to rest upon such an act." The
term "direct injury" is there used in its legal sense, as
meaning a wrong which directly results in the violation
of a legal right. "An injury, legally speaking, consists of
a wrong done to a person, or, in other words, a violation
of his right. It is an ancient maxim, that a damage to
one, without an injury in this sense, (damnum absque
injuria), does not lay the foundation of an action; because, if the act complained of does not violate any of his
legal rights, it is obvious, that he has no cause to complain. . . . Want of right and want. of remedy are justly
said to be reciprocal. Where therefore there has been a
violation of a right, the person injured is entitled to an
action." Parkerv. Griswold, 17 Conn. 288, 302-303. The
converse is equally true, that where, although there is
damage, there is no violation of a right no action can be
maintained.
Second. The only pertinent inquiry, then, is what
enforceable legal right of petitioner do the alleged wrongful agreements invade or threaten? If conspiracy or
fraud or malice or coercion were involved a different case
would be presented, but in their absence, plainly enough,
the mere consummation of the loans and grants will not
constitute an actionable wrong. Nor will the subsequent
application by the municipalities of the moneys derived
therefrom give rise to an actionable wrong, since such
application, being lawful, will invade no legal right of
petitioner. The claim that petitioner will be injured,
perhaps ruined, by the competition of the municipalities
brought about by the use of the moneys, therefore, presents a clear case of damnum absque injuria. Stated in

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

other words, these municipalities have the right under
state law to engage in the business in competition with
petitioner, since it has been given no exclusive franchise.
If its business be curtailed or destroyed by the operations
of the municipalities, it will be by lawful competition
from which no legal wrong results.
What petitioner anticipates, we emphasize, is damage
to something it does not possess-namely, a right to be

immune from lawful municipal competition. No other
claim of right is involved. It is, in principle, as though
an unauthorized loan were about to be made to enable
the borrower to purchase a piece of property in respect
of which he had a right, equally with a prospective complainant, to become the buyer. While the loan might
frustrate complainant's hopes of a profitable investment,
it would not violate any legal right; and he would have
no standing to ask the aid of a court to stop the loan.
What difference, in real substance, is there between the
case supposed and the one in hand?
The ultimate question which, therefore, emerges is one
of great breadth. Can anyone who will suffer injurious
consequences from the lawful use of money about to be
unlawfully loaned maintain a suit to enjoin the loan?
An affirmative answer would produce novel and startling
results. And that question suggests another: Should
the loan be consummated, may such a one sue for damages? If so, upon what ground may he sue either the person making the loan or the person receiving it? Considered apart, the lender owes the sufferer no enforcible
duty to refrain from making the unauthorized loan.; and
the borrower owes him no obligation to refrain from using
the proceeds in any lawful way the borrower may choose.
If such a suit can be maintained, similar suits by innumerable persons are likewise admissible to determine
whether money is being loaned without lawful authority
for uses wh-Lrh, although hurtful to the complainants,

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES
464

Opinion of the Court.

are perfectly lawful. The supposition opens a vista of
litigation hitherto unrevealed.
John Doe, let us suppose, is engaged in operating a
grocery store. Richard Roe, desiring to open a rival and
competing establishment, seeks a loan from a manufacturing concern which, under its charter, is without authority to make the loan. The loan, if made, will be ultra
vires. The state or a stockholder of the corporation, perhaps a creditor in some circumstances, may, upon that
ground, enjoin the loan. But may it be enjoined at the
suit of John Doe, a stranger to the corporation, because
the lawful use of the money will prove injurious to him
and this result is foreseen and expected both by the lender
and the borrower, Richard Roe? Certainly not, unless we
are prepared to lay down the general rule that A, who
will suffer damage from the lawful act of B, and who
plainly will have no case against B, may nevertheless
invoke judicial aid to restrain a third party, acting without authority, from furnishing means which will enable
B to do what the law permits him to do. Such a rule
would be opposed to sound reason, as we have already
tried to show, and cannot be accepted.
If there are conditions under which two distinct transactions, neither of which, apart, constitutes a judicially
remediable wrong, may be so related to one another as to
afford a basis for judicial relief, such conditions are not to
be found in the circumstances of the present case.
What we have now said finds ample support in the
decided cases. Among the decisions of this court, and
directly in point, is RailroadCo. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166.
In that case, the railroad company was authorized by its
charter, among other things, to obtain and afterwards
manage, use and enjoy, wharves and the appurtenances
thereto "in connection with its railroads." A Louisiana
statute conferred .upon the railroad the power to obtain
and thereafter to own, maintain and use, suitable wharves,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court'

302 U. S.

etc., "connected with and incidental to said railroad."
Pursuant to this authority, the railroad company acquired
property which it used as a wharf and which, although
limited by the statute and its charter to use for railroad
purposes, it leased to certain persons for the mooring
of vessels and the loading and unloading of cargoes upon
and from all vessels of a kind designated. Ellerman operated certain public wharves under a contract with the
city of New Orleans giving him the right to collect revenues derived therefrom. He brought suit to enjoin the
execution of the lease of the railroad wharf. This court
held that he was without legal standing to maintain the
suit-his only interest being to prevent competition with
himself as a wharfinger, which the more extensive and
challenged use by the lessees of the railroad wharf would
create, and his claim for relief resting only upon the
allegation that the use proposed by the lease was beyond
the corporate power of the railroad company to grant.
"But if the competition in itself, however injurious," we
said, pp. 173-174, "is not a wrong of which he could complain against a natural person, being the riparian proprietor, how does it become so merely because the author
of it is a corporation acting ultra vires? The damage is
attributable to the competition, and to that alone. But
the competition is not illegal. It is not unlawful for any
one to compete with the company, although the latter
may not be authorized to engage in the same business.
The legal interest which qualifies a complainant other
thaD the State itself to sue in such a case is a pecuniary
interest in preventing the defendant from doing an act
where the injury alleged flows from its quality and character as 'a breach of some legal or equitable duty. A
stockholder of the company has such an interest in restraining it Within the limits of the enterprise for which
it was formed, because that is to enforce his -contract of
membership. The State has a legal interest in prevent-

ALABAMA POWER CO. v. ICKES
464

483

Opinion of the Court.

ing the usurpation and perversion of its franchises, because it is a trustee of its powers for uses strictly public.
In these questions the appellee has no interest, and he
cannot raise them in order, under that cover, to create
and protect a monopoly which the law does not give
him. The only injury of which he can be heard in a
judiqial tribunal to complain is the invasion of some legal
or equitable right. If he asserts that the competition of
the railroad company damages him, the answer is, that
it does not abridge or impair any such right. If he
alleges that the railroad company is acting beyond the
warrant of the law, the answer is, that a violation of its
charter does not of itself injuriously affect any of his
rights. The company is not shown to owe him any duty
which it has not performed." Supporting cases are cited.
See, also, U. S. ex rel. New York Warehouse, W. & T.
Assn. v. Dern, 68 F. (2d) 773. Compare Edward Hines
Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143, 148; Alexander
Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281 U. S.249, 256-257;
Milwaukee Horse & Cow Comm'n Co. v. Hill, 207 Wis.
420, 423, 430-432; 241 N. W. 364.
The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.258, is not to the
contrary. There, suit was brought by certain railroad
companies to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing a competing company to
acquire a terminal road. Answering the contention that
complainants were without the legal interest necessary
to entitle them to challenge the order, this court held that
the right to sue arose in virtue of a special interest recognized by certain provisions contained in Transportation
Act, 1920, and under ยง 212 of the Judicial Code which
gave any party to a proceeding before the commission
the right to become a party to any suit wherein the
validity of an order made in the proceeding is involved.
In this view, the Ellerman case was thought to be inapplicable. A reading of the case in connection with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

dissenting opinion shows very clearly that, but for express statutory provision creating a different rule, the
decision in the Ellerman case would have been controlling.
The precise question here involved was decided, in accordance with the view we have expressed, in Duke Power
Co. v. Greenwood County, 91 F. (2d) 665, 676; same
case, 81 F. (2d) 986, 997. Compare Arkansas-Missouri
Power Co. v. Kennett, 78 F. (2d) 911. See, also, Allegan
v. Consumers' Power Co., 71 F. (2d) 477. The Greenwood County case, supra, is now pending in this court
upon certiorari, and will be determined upon the authority of our present decision.
Frost v. CorporationCommission, 278 U. S. 515, relied
upon by petitioner, presents an altogether different situation. Appellant there owned a cotton-ginning business
in the city of Durant, Oklahoma, for the operation of
which he had a license from the corporation commission.
The law of Oklahoma provided that no gin should be
operated without a license from the commission, which
could be obtained only upon specified conditions. We
held that such a license was a franchise constituting a
property right within the protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and that while the acquisition of the franchise did not preclude the state from making similar
valid grants to others, it was exclusive against an attempt
to operate a competing gin without a permit or under a
void permit. The Durant Co-operative Gin Company
sought to obtain a permit from the commission which, for
reasons stated in our opinion, we held would be void and
a clear invasion of Frost's property rights. We concluded that a legal right of Frost to be free from such
competition would be invaded by one not having a valid
franchise to compete, and sustained Frost's right to an
injunction against the commission and the Durant company. See Corporation Commission v. Lowe, 281 U. S.
431, 435. The difference between the Frost case and

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.

485

Argument for Petitioners.

464

this is fundamental; for the competition contemplated
there was unlawful while that of the municipalities contemplated here is entirely lawful.
We deem it unnecessary to review the many other cases
cited by petitioner where suits against officials have been
sustained. An examination of them will disclose the
presence of fraud, coercion, malice, conspiracy, or some
other element or condition of controlling force-none of
which, as shown by the findings which we have accepted
as unassailable, exists in the present case.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.

DUKE POWER CO. ET AL. v. GREENWOOD
COUNTY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 397.

Argued December 7, 8, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

Decided upon the authority of Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, ante,
p. 464.
91 F. (2d) 665, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 675, to review a decree affirming

the dismissal, 19 F. Supp. 932, of a bill to enjoin performance of a contract like those involved in the two cases
last preceding. For an earlier phase of this litigation,
see 299 U. S. 259.
Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., with whom Messrs.
Newton D. Baker, R. T. Jackson, W. R. Perkins, H. J.
Haynsworth, J. H. Marion and W. B. McGuire, Jr. were
on the brief, for petitioners.
The evidence shows that the project was included in
the comprehensive program of public works and that

