OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

insured, and a copy of the original receipt taken upon the
payment of such loss; . . ."
As the standard form of 1930 was adopted twenty years
after the Allemannia case it fairly may be assumed that
the dissimilar language employed was intended to impose
liability different from the one there found to exist.
The judgment below muot be reversed. The cause will
be remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.
ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 281.

Argued November 8, 9, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

An earlier consent decree against a corporation in a suit by the
Government under the antitrust laws'held not inconsistent with
prosecution of a later suit under those laws in another district
differing substantially in subject matter, parties, issues and relief
sought. P. 232.
Affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges,
20 F. Supp. 608, denying a petition for an injunction.
APPEAL

Mr. William Watson Smith, with whom Messrs. Frank
B. Ingersoll and Leon E. Hickman were on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Walter L. Rice, John W.
Aiken, Hugh B. Cox, John C. Herberg, and Edward Dumbauld were on the brief, for the United States.

ALUMINUM CO. v. UNITED STATES.
230

231

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal brings up a final decree of the District
Court, Western District of Pennsylvania, three judges
sitting, which vacated a preliminary injunction and refused to restrain law officers of the United States from
conducting a proceeding against appellant in another
district.
June 9, 1912, in the present cause---"Pennsylvania
Suit"-when appellant was the only defendant, a consent
decree cancelled certain restrictive provisions of designated contracts and forbade future violations of the antitrust laws by it, its officers, agents and representatives.
With certain modifications (1922) presently unimportant
this decree remains in force.
April 23, 1937, the United States through their law
officers, defendants here, instituted a proceeding in the
Southern District of New York-"New York Suit"wherein the appellant, its officers, agents, stockholders
and others (sixty-three in all), were named as defendants.
All of these were charged with violating the antitrust
laws and appropriate relief through injunctions, dissolution of appellant, rearrangement of its properties, etc.,
was asked.

April 29, 1937, in the "Pennsylvania Suit" appellant
asked and the District Court entered an ex parte order
directing the law officers concerned with the New York
suit to appear as defendants. It then filed the petition
now before us wherein it prayed for an injunction restraining these officers from proceeding further in New
York against it, its wholly owned subsidiaries, officers and
directors.

The petition charged that prosecution of the later suit
would subject appellant to the peril of concurrent decrees
on the same subject matter by two courts; also that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

was the possibility of conflicting decrees and unseemly
conflict. The prayer for relief rested essentially upon
the assertion that the suit embraced subject matters and
issues substantially identical with those previously presented and adjudicated by the consent decree of 1912.
The law officers appeared specially and answered; the
Attorney General filed an expediting certificate, under
the Act of February 11, 1903, as amended, 15 U. S. C.
28, 29; a court of three judges assembled, heard evidence,
made findings of fact and denied relief. Errors were
assigned; this appeal followed.
Plainly, and there is no suggestion to the contrary, appellant cannot succeed unless the Pennsylvania and New
York suits are substantially identical in subject matter
and issues. It says that comparison of the petitions in
the two causes reveals this fact. Also that comparison
of the petition in the later suit with the prohibitions of
the 1912 consent decree shows the alleged identity, since
each charging paragraph of the petition sets up violations of the antitrust laws inhibited by the decree.
On the other hand, counsel for the United States submit that the two suits differ in substantial respectsdefendants, charges and relief prayed.
The court below found: "The subject matter, parties,
issues and relief sought in the New York suit differ substantially from those in the 1912 suit. The New York
suit does not attack the affirmative provisions of the 1912
decree or seek to reverse any action taken by the District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania in
the suit in 1912. The New York suit does not subject
Aluminum Company to the peril of two conflicting decrees. Aluminum Company will not suffer irreparable
injury by being compelled to defend the suit in the
Southern District of New York. . . ." It concluded that
the two suits were dissimilar in respect of parties defendant, subject matter, issues and relief sought, and
that no basis for an injunction had been shown.

PHILLIPS-JONES CORP. v. PARMLEY.

233

Counsel for Parties.

230

We have heard counsel, examined the record and briefs,
"-deither
and are unable to say that the court be 1
uings are
in respect of its findings or conclusion.
we
ached,
and
the
conclusion
adequately supported
think, is proper. For us again to analyze the pleadings,
evidence and decrees and point out the differences and
necessary inferences would serve no useful purpose. This
was adequately done below.
The challenged decree must be
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE STONE took no
part in the consideration or decision of this cause.

PHILLIPS-JONES CORPORATION

PARMLEY, EXECUTRIX,
CERTIORARI

TO THE

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 45.

Argued November 19, 1937.--Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A stockholder who has received his pro rata share of the corporate assets upon dissolution of the corporation and has been compelled by assessment under ยง 280 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of
1926 to pay the whole of income and profits taxes owed by the
corporation, is entitled to contribution from his co-stockholders
who have not been assessed for the taxes, and may maintain a
bill therefor. P. 235.
2. The liability of the co-stockholders to contribute arises under
the general law; it is not dependent upon the making of an assessment against them under ยง 280. P. 236.
88 F. (2d) 958, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

301 U. S. 680, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decree dismissing a bill for contribution.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Mr. Milton J.
Levitt was on the brief, for petitioners.

