PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
Syllabus.

Third. What has been said indicates the answer to petitioner's -argument that the probation officer of the
Southern District, by appearing before Judge Inch in the
Eastern District upon the application for termination of
the proceedings, and the United States Attorney, by
stipulating that Judge Inch might return to the Southern
District to hear a motion for resettlement of his order,
have waived yenue or are estopped to question it.
Neither of these officers could confer jurisdiction upon a
designated judge to perform acts not authorized by the
assignment Act outside the district of designation after
his term of service had ended. They could not waive the
jurisdictional requirements of the Probation Act or by
their conduct confer jurisdiction on a judge of another
district to act for the trial court in which alone the
statute vests the power to deal with the subject.
The judgment is.
Affrmed.
PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 135. Argued November 12, 1937.-Decided December 6,1937.
1. Under a state statute allowing appeal by the State in criminal
cases, when permitted by the trial judge, for correction of errors of
law, a sentence of life imprisonment, on a conviction of murder in
the second degree, was reversed. Upon retrial, the accused was
convicted of murder in the first degree and sentenced to death. Held
consistent with due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 322.
2. Assuming that the prohibition of double jeopardy in the Fifth
Amendment applies to jeopardy in the same case if the new trial
be at the instance of the Government and not upon defendant's
motion, it does not follow that a like prohibition is applicable*against
state action by force of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp.' 322
et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

3. The Fourteenth Amendment does not guarantee against state
action all that would be a violation of the original bill of rights
(Amendments I to VIII) if done by the Federal Government.
P. 323.
4. The process of absorption whereby some of the privileges and
immunities guaranteed by the federal bill of rights have been
brought within the Fourteenth Amendment, has had its source
in the belief that neither liberty nor justice would exist if they
were sacrificed. P. 326.
5. It is not necessary to the decision in this case to consider what the
answer would have to be if the State were permitted after a trial
free from error to try the accused over again or to bring another
case against him. P. 328.
6. The conviction of the defendant upon the retrial ordered upon
the appeal by the State in this case was not in derogation of any
privileges or immunities that belonged to him as a citizen of the
United States. Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581. P. 329.
122 Conn. 529; 191 Atl. 320, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a sentence of
death upon a verdict of guilty of murder in the first
degree. The defendant had previously been convicted
upon the same indictment of murder in the second degree, whereupon the State appealed and a new trial was
ordered.

Messrs. David Goldstein and George A. Saden for
appellant.
Yr. Wm. H. Comley, with whom Mr. Lorin W. Willi&,
State'i Attorney, was on the brief, for Connecticut.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Connecticut permitting appeals in criminal
cases to be taken by the state is challenged by appellant
as an infringement of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States. Whether the
challenge should be upheld is now to be determined.
Appellant was indicted in Fairfield County, Connecticut, for the crime of murder in the first degree. A jury

PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
319

Opinion of the Court.

found him guilty of murder in the second degree, and he
was sentenced to confinement in the state prison for life.
Thereafter the State of Connecticut, with the permission
of the judge presiding at the trial, gave notice of alpea
to the Supreme Court of Errors. This it did pursuant
to an act adopted in 1886 which is printed in the margin.'
Public Acts, 1886, p. 560; now ยง 6454 of the General
Statutes. Upon such appeal, the Supreme Court of
Errors reversed the judgment and ordered a new trial.
State v. Palko, 121 Conn. 669; 186 Atl. 657. It found
that there had been error of law to the prejudice of the
state (1) in excluding testimony as to a confession by
defendant; (2) in excluding testimony upon cross-examination of defendant to impeach his credibility, and (3) in
the instructions to the jury as to the difference between
first and second degree murder.
Pursuant to the mandate of the Supreme Court of
Errors, defendant was brought to trial again. Before a
jury was impaneled and also at later stages of the case
he made the objection that the effect of the new trial
was to place him twice in jeopardy for the same offense,
and in so doing to violate the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States. Upon the overruling of the objection the trial proceeded. The jury
returned a verdict of murder in the first degree, and the
court sentenced the defendant to the punishment of
"See. 6494. Appeals by the state in criminal cases. Appeals from
the rulings and decisions of the -superior court or of any criminal
court of common pleas, upon all questions of law arising on the trial
of criminal cases, may be taken by the state, with the permission
of the presiding judge, to the supreme court of errors, in the same
manner and to the same effect as if made by the accused."
A statute of Vermont (G. L. 2598) was given the same effect and
upheld as constitutional in State v. Felch, 92 Vt. 477; 105 Atl. 23.
Other statutes, conferring a right of appeal more or less limited in
scope, are collected in the American Law Institute Code of Criminal
Procedure, June 15, 1930, p. 1203.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

death. The Supreme Court of Errors affirmed the judgment of conviction, 122 Conn. 529; 191 Atl. 320, adhering to a decision announced in 1894, State v. Lee, 65
Conn. 265; 30 Atl. 1110, which upheld the challenged
statute. Cf. State v. Muolo, 118 Conn. 373; i72 Ati. 875.
The case is here upon appeal. 28 U. S. C., ยง 344.
1. The execution of the sentence will not deprive appellant of his life without the process of law assured to
him by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The argument for appellant is that whatever is forbidden by the Fifth Amendment is forbidden by the Fourteenth also. The Fifth Amendment, which is not directed to the states, but Solely to the federal government, creates immunity from double jeopardy. No person shall be "subject for the same offense to be twice
put in jeopardy of life or limb." The Fourteenth
Amendment ordains, "nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law." To retry a defendant, though under one
indictment and only one, subjects him, it is said, to
double jeopardy in violation of the Fifth Amendment, if
the prosecution is one on behalf of the United States.
From this the consequence is said to follow that there is
a denial of life or liberty without due process of law, if
the prosecution is one on behalf of the People of a State.
Thirty-five years ago a like argument was made to this
court in Dreyerv. Illinois, 187 U. S.71, 85, and was passed
without consideration of its merits as unnecessary to a
decision. The question is now here.
We do not find it profitable to mark the precise limits
of the prohibition of double jeopardy in federal prosecutions. The subject was much considered in Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S.100, decided in 1904 by a closely
divided court. The view was there expressed for a majority of the court that the prohibition was not confined

PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
319

Opinion of the Court.

to jeopardy in a new and independent case. It forbade
jeopardy -n the same case if the new trial was at the instance of the government and not upon defendant's motion. Cf. Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521. All this
may be assumed for the purpose of the case at hand,
though the dissenting opinions,(195 U. S. 100, 134, 137)
show how much was to be said in favor of a different
ruling. Right-minded men, as we learn from those opinions, could reasonably, even if mistakenly, believe that a
second trial was lawful in prosecutions subject to the
Fifth Amendment, if it was all in the same case. Even
more plainly, right-minded men could reasonably believe
that in espousing that conclusion they were not favoring
a practice repugnant to the conscience of mankind. Is
double jeopardy in such circumstances, if double jeopardy
it must be called, a denial of due process forbidden to the
states? The tyranny of labels, Snyder v. Massachusetts,
291 U. S. 97, 114, must not lead us to leap to a conclusion
that a word which in one set of facts may stand for oppression or enormity is of like effect in every other.
We have said that in appellant's iew the Fourteenth
Amendment is to be taken as embodying the prohibitionsof the Fifth. His.thesis is even broader. Whatever would
be a violation of the original bill of rights (Amendments
I to VIII) if done by the federal government is now
equally unlawful by force of the Fourteenth Amendment
if done by a state. There is no such general rule.
The Fifth Amendment provides, among other things,
that no person shall be held to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime unless on presentment or indictment of a grand jury. This court has held that, in
prosecutions by a state, presentment or indictment by
a grand jury may give way to informations at the instance of a public officer. Hurtado v. California, 110
U. S. 516; Gaines v. Washington, 277 U. S. 81, 86. The
Fifth Amendment provides also that no person shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself. This court has said that, in prosecutions by a
state, the exemption will fail if the state elects to end it.
Tuining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 106, 111, 112. Cf.
Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra, p. 105; Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U. S. 278, 285. The Sixth Amendment calls
for a jury trial in criminal cases and the Seventh for a
jury trial in civil cases at common law where the value in
controversy shall exceed twenty dollars. This court has
ruled that consistently with those amendments trial by
jury may be modified by a state or abolished altogether.
Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Maxwell v. Dow, 176
U. S. 581; New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 208; Wagner Electric Mfg. Co. v. Lyndon, 262 U. S.
226, 232. As to the Fourth Amendment, one should refer
to Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 398, and as to
other provisions of the Sixth, to West v. Louisiana, 194
U. S. 258.
On the other hand, the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment may make it unlawful for a state to
abridge by its statutes the freedom of speech which the
First Amendment safeguards against encroachment by
the Congress, De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364;
Herndonv. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 259; or the like freedom
of the press, Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S.
233; Near v. Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697, 707;
or the free exercise of religion, Hamilton v. Regents, 293
U. S. 245, 262; cf. Grosjeanv. American Press Co., supra;
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510; or the right of
peaceable assembly, without which speech would be unduly trammeled, De Jonge v. Oregon, supra; Herndon v.
Lowry, supra; or the right of one accused of crime to the
benefit of counsel, Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. In
these and other situations immunities that are valid as
against the federal government by force of the specific

PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
319

Opinion of the Court.

pledges of particular amendments' have been found to
be implicit in the concept of ordered liberty, and thus,
through the Fourteenth Amendment, become valid as
against the states.
The line of division may seem to be wavering and
broken if there is a hasty catalogue of the cases on the
one side and the other. Reflection and analysis will induce a different view. There emerges the perception of a
rationalizing principle which gives to discrete instances a
proper order and coherence. The right to trial by jury
and the immunity from prosecution except as the result'
of an indictment may have value and importance.
Eveh so, they are not of the very essence of a scheme of
ordered liberty. To abolish them is not to violate a
"principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental."
Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra, p. 105; Brown v. Mississippi, supra, p. 285; Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S.
312, 316. Few would be so narrow or provincial as to
maintain that a fair and enlightened system of justice
would be impossible without them. What is true of jury
trials and indictments is true also, as the cases show, of
the immunity from compulsory self-incrimination. Twining v. New Jersey, supra. This too might be lost, and
justice still be done. Indeed, today as in the past there
are students of our penal system who look upon the
immunity as a mischief rather than a benefit, and who
'First Amendment: "Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;
or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of
the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government
for a redress of grievances."
Sixth Amendment: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
enjoy the right . . . to have the assistance of counsel for his
defence."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

would limit its scope, or destroy it altogether! No doubt
there would remain the need to give protection against
torture, physical or mental. Brown v. Mississippi, supra.
Justice, however, would not perish if the accused were
subject to a duty to respond to orderly inquiry. The
exclusion of these immunities and privileges from the
privileges and immunities protected against the action of
the states has not been arbitrary or casual. It has been
dictated by -astudy and appreciation of the meaning, the
essential implications, of liberty itself.
We reach a different plane of social and moral values
when we pass to the privileges and immunities that have
been taken over from the earlier articles of the federal
bill of rights and brought within the Fourteenth Amendment by a process of absorption. These in their origin
were effective against the federal government alone. If
the Fourteenth Amendment has absorbed them, the process of absorption has had its source in the belief that
neither liberty nor justice would exist if they were sacrificed. Twining v. New Jersey, supra, p. 99." This is
true, for illustration, of freedom of thought, and speech.
'See, e. g. Bentham, Rationale of Judicial Evidence, Book IX,
Pt. 4, c. III; Glueck, Crime and Justice, p. 94; cf. Wigmore, Evidence, vol. 4, ยง 2251.
Compulsory self-incrimination is part of the established procedure
in the law of Continental Europe. Wigmore, supra, p. 824; Garner,
Criminal Procedure in France, 25 Yale L. J. 255, 260; Sherman,
Roman Law in the Modem World, vol. 2, pp. 493, 494; Stumberg,
Guide to the Law and Legal Literature of France, p. 184. Double
jeopardy too is not everywhere forbidden. Radin, Anglo American
Legal History, p. 228.
S". .. it is possible that some of the personal rights safeguarded
by the first eight Amendments against National-action may also be
safeguarded against state action, because a denial of them would be a
denial of due process of law. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. If this is so, it is not because those rights
are enumerated in the first eight Amendments, but because they
are of such a nature that they are included in the conception of due
process of law."

PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
319

Opinion of the Court.

Of that freedom one may say that it is the matrix, the
indispensable condition, of nearly every other form of
freedom. With rare aberrations a pervasive recognition
of that truth can be traced in our history, political and
legal. So it has come about that the domain of liberty,
withdrawn by the Fourteenth Amendment from encroachment by the states, has been enlarged by latter-day
judgments to include liberty of the mind as well as
liberty of action.5 The extension became, indeed, a logical
imperative when once it was recognized, as long ago
it -was, that liberty is something more than exemption from physical restraint, and that even in the field
of substantive rights and duties the legislative judgment,
if oppressive and arbitrary, may be overridden by the
courts. Cf. Near v. Minnesota ex rel. Olson, supra; De
Jonge v. Oregon, supra. Fundamental too in the concept
of due process, and so in that of liberty, is the thought
that condemnation shall be rendered only after trial.
Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Blackmer v. United States,
284 U. S. 421. The hearing, moreover, must be a real
one, not a sham or a pretense. Moore v. Dempsey, 261
U. S. 86; Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103. For tha.
reason, ignorant defendants ir a capital case were held to
have been condemned unlawfully when in truth, though
not in form, theyvwere refused the aid of counsel. Powell
v. Alabama, supra, pp. 67, 68. The decision did not
turn upon the fact that the benefit of counsel would have
been guaranteed to the defendants by the provisions of
the Sixth Amendment if they had been prosecuted in a
federal court. The decision turned upon the fact that in
the particular situation laid before us in the evidence the
benefit of counsel was essential to the substance of a
hearing.
'The cases are brought together in Warren, The New Liberty under
the 14th Amendment, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 431.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Our survey of the cases serves, we think, to justify the
statement that the dividing line between them, if not
unfaltering throughout its course, has been true for the
most part to a unifying principle. On which side of the
line the case made out by the appellant has appropriate
location must be the next inquiry and the final one. Is
that kind of double jeopardy to which the statute has
subjected him a hardship so acute and shocking that our
polity will not endure it? Does it violate those "fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at thie
base of all our civil and political institutions"? Hebert
v. Louisiana, supra. The answer surely must be "no."
What the answer would have to be if the state were permitted after a trial free from error to try the accused over
again or to bring another case against him, we have no occasion to consider. We deal with the statute before us and
no other. The state is not attempting to wear the accused
out by a multitude of cases with accumulated trials. It
asks no more than this, that the case against him shall
go on until there shall be a trial free from the corrosion
of substantial legal error. State v, Felch, 92 Vt. 477; 105
Atl. 23; State v. Lee, supra. This is not cruelty at all, nor
even vexation in any immoderate degree. If the trial had
been infected with error adverse to the accused, there
might have been review at his instance, and as often as
necessary to purge the vicious taint. A reciprocal privilege, subject at all times to the discretion of the presiding
judge, State v. Carabetta,106 Conn. 114; 127 Atl. 394, has
now been granted to the state. There is here no seismic
innovation. The edifice of justice stands, its symmetry,
to many, greater than before.
2. The conviction of appellant is not in derogation of
any privileges or immunities that belong to him as a
citizen of the United States.

329

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
319

Syllabus.

There is argument in his behalf that the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as well
as the due process clause has been flouted by the judgment.
Maxwell v. Dow, supra,p. 584, gives all the answer that
is necessary.

The judgment is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissents.

SMYTH, EXECUTOR, v. "UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 42. Argued November 18, 19, 1937.-Decided December 13, 1937.
1. Bonds of the United States promising payment of principal and
interest in United States gold coin of the standard of value in force
at the time of their issuance (25.8 grains of gold 9/10ths fine per
dollar) were called by the Secretary of the Treasury for redemption and payment prior to their stated day of maturity, pursuant
to provisions therein which reserved this right to the United States
to be exercised through a published notice, and which declared
that from the date of redemption designated in such notice
interest on the called bonds should cease and all coupons thereon
maturing after that date should be void. Prior to the notices,
the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, providing for the discharge
of "gold clause" obligations upon payment, dollar for dollar, in
any coin or currency which at the time of payment is legal tender
for private debts, had been adopted; and in two of the cases the
notices were later than the decisions of this Court in the Gold
Clause Cases, including Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330.
Held:
(1) That the effect of the published notice was to accelerate
the maturity of the bonds,. the new date specified in the notice
* Together with No. 43, Dixie Terminal Co. v. United States, also
on writ of certiorari to the Court of Claims; and No. 198, United
States v. Machen, on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

