OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.'

302 U. S.

the district court, and reheard. The district court, after
making findings of fact and conclusions of law, dismissed
the bill. The court below, upon appeal, considered the
case fully, and delivered an exhaustive opinion. It held
(1) that the statute, under which the administrator proposed to act, was constitutional; (2) that he acted wi-thin
the power granted him by the statute; and (3) that in
any event no legal right of plaintiffs was violated by what
had been done. 91 F. (2d) 665; see also preceding
decision, 81 F. (2d) 986.
Upon the question of petitioners' standing to maintain
the suit, the lower court held, in substance, that the
competition proposed by the county was lawful and that
even though the administrator were without authority to
make the proposed loan and grant, no legal right of petitioners was thereby invaded. The opinion upon this
branch of the case is in harmony with the views we have
just expressed in Nos. 84 and 85; and it follows that
the decree must be, and it is,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. LOUIS HIRSCH
TEXTILE MACHINES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 62.

Argued November 19, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. Claims 1, 3, 14 and 15 of Patent No. 1,713,628,. to Schletter,
May 21, 1929, for an attachment for "flat" or "straight" knitting
machines, including machines of the "full-fashioned" type, held
invalid for want of novelty. Pp. 494, 497.
Claim 14, taken as typical, defines the invention
as the combination in a straight knitting machine of (a) a set of yarn guide
carrier bars for operating yarn guides traveling less than the

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. HIRSCH CO.
490

491

Opinion of the Court.

full width of the fabric being knitted, (b) a spindle having reversed screw threads, (c) stops.operated by said spindle, (d)
means for turning the spindle in either direction, (e) patterncontrolled means for determining the time of operation of the
spindle, and (f) pattern-controlldd means for determining the
direction of rotation of the spindle.
2. The addition of a new and useful element to an old combination
may be patentable; but the addition must be the result of invention rather than the mere exercise of the skill of the calling, and not
one plainly indicated by the prior art. P. 497.
3. Commercial success may be decisive where invention is in doubt.
P. 498.
But in this case it does not appear whether the commercial
success is attributable to novelty of the bare conception of the use
of the attachment with full-fashioned knitting machines rather
than to the skill with which the patentee devised mechanisms for
making the attachment effective, but for which he made no claim,
or to the strength of the hands into which the patent came.
P. 499.
87 F. (2d) 702, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 680, to review the reversal of a

decree, 13 F. Supp. 476, sustaining four claims of the
petitioner's patent, enjoining further infringement, and
ordering an accounting.
Mr. Charles H. Howson, with whom Messrs. Hubert
Howson, Dexter N. Shaw and William A. Smith, Jr.,

were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Mr. Walter A.

Darby was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes here on certiorari to review a decree,
in a patent infringement suit, of the Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, which reversed the district court
and held invalid Claims 1, 3, 14 and 15 of the Schletter
Patent No. 1,713,628 of 1929, for an attachment for flat

knitting machines.

87 F. (2d) 702.

The Court of Ap-

peals for the Third Circuit had previously held these

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

claims valid and infringed in Alfred Hofmann, Inc. v.
Textile Machine Works, 71 F. (2d) 973. The patent is
for an attachment for "flat" or "straight" knitting machines, including machines of the "full-fashioned" type.
By use of the attachment, as the specifications state,
"yarn-guides can be accurately controlled to lay a yarn
over a distance less than the full length of a course being
knitted, as for reinforcing or for so-called split-seam work
wherein sections of fabric are connected by suture seams."
The attachment, it is stated, may be used for "fashioning designs, as clocks, upon hosiery."
Flat knitting machines are adaptable to use in the
manufacture of full fashioned garments such as stockings,
underwear or sweaters. A characteristic feature of the
manufacture is that the garment or a portion of it, is
knitted in a flat web which, in the course of knitting, is
shaped by variation of its width, in such a way that it
conforms to the contour of the body to be fitted, when its
shaped edges are united in a seam. The desired variations in width are secured through control of the traverse
or "throw" of the yarn guide which brings the yarn to
the needles of the machine as they knit the web. They
may be and usually are set up as multiple units in a single
machine capable of knitting simultaneously a number of
garments of the same type.
The object of the patented attachment in providing
accurate controls for yarn guides laying a yarn over a distance less than the full width of a fabric being knitted,
is either to knit an additional yarn over a particular area
of the main body of the fabric so as to strengthen it or
form upon it an ornamental design, or to insert in it
"split-seam work," which is a portion of the main fabric
knitted with a separate yarn and forming a distinctive
design. The attachment makes it possible to lengthen
and shorten the throw of the yarn guide, and thus to
form designs with re~ntrant angles in both reinforcement
and split-seam work.

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. HIRSCH CO.
490

493

Opinion of the Court.

The patented device embraces a rotatable spindle having threads cut upon it, in reverse, on opposite sides of
its central portion, with a nut mounted upon each of its
two threaded parts and moved by its revolutions so that
when the spindle is turned in the one direction or the
other the nuts are moved by the reversely threaded
screws toward or away from each other. Carried on the
nuts so as to move with them are yarn carrier stops which
are so adapted and located as to serve as controls to limit
the travel of carrier rods which have mounted on them
the yarn guides. The function of the mechanism is to
control the movement of the stops which in turn control the distance of travel of the yarn guides. This is
accomplished by the movement of the stop nuts toward
or away from each other by the rotation of the threaded
spindle in the appropriate direction.
Movement in conformity to a desired pattern is effected
by the transmission of power from the main camshaft
of the knitting machine to two ratchet wheels mounted
on the end of the threaded spindle, each with an actuating
pawl. The two pawls are in such relationship that when
one operates its complementary ratchet wheel the spindle
will rotate in one direction, and when the other operates its complementary ratchet wheel the spindle will
turn in the opposite direction. The operation of the
ratchet wheels is controlled by means of buttons, arranged
on two endless belts propelled by the main camshaft.
The buttons attached to one of the belts serve to actuate
a mechanism which pushes both pawls. The buttons
affixed to the other belt govern a mechanism that selectively engages one or the other of the two pawls, and thus
determines the direction in which the spindle and hence
the stops are to move. By suitable spacing of the buttons
on the belts, the motion, which is to be imparted to the
stops through the intermediate apparatus, is controlled
in such fashion as to fix in advance the length of throw

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

and hence the outline of the design which is to be incorporated in the main fabric by reinforcement or splitseam work.
Claim 14, which may be taken as typical, defines the
invention as the combination "In a straight knitting machine [a] a set of yarn guide carrier bars for operating
yarn guides traveling less than the full width of the fabric
being knitted, [b] a spindle having reversed screw threads,
[c] stops operated by said spindle, [d] means for turning
the spindle in either direction, [e] pattern-controlled
means for determining the time of operation of the
spindle, and [f] pattern-controlled means for determining the direction of rotation of the spindle."
As early as 1912, ten years before Schletter's original
application of June, 1922, from which his patent dates,
the art had devised an attachment for full-fashioned knitting machines, commercially used for reinforcing the heel
portion of the stocking. One form, known as the Gotham,
comprised a reversely threaded spindle, on the threads
of which were mounted stops moving toward each other
when the spindle rotated in one direction, and away from
each other when the spindle turned in the opposite direction. The traveling stops controlled the throw of carrier bars with yarn guides which laid a reinforcing yarn
at the heel of the stocking. As the reinforcement was
triangular with the point above the heel gradually widening below without rebntrant angles, it was needful
to rotate the spindle automatically in but one direction
in order to complete the pattern. When the reinforcement had been knitted the spindle was rotated by hand
in the reverse direction, or "racked out," until the stops
were restored to their initial position, ready to knit the
next stocking. A means for automatically rotating the
spindle in the desired single direction was provided by
a ratchet wheel mounted on the spindle, which was
worked by a pawl pushed by a cam on the main shaft;

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. HIRSCH CO.
490

495

Opinion of the Court.

the operation of the pawl was controlled by a mechanism
actuated by a "button" type of pattern belt or chain.
The reinforcement could not be knitted from a single
yarn carrier operating over a single area of the fabric,
because the reinforced area was divided, in the completed
stocking, by the seam which united the selvages of the
stocking web. It was thus necessary to knit the reinforcement in two areas, using two yarn carriers, each
with a throw of the desired variation in length, reaching
from the selvage on either side of the stocking web inward upon the main fabric. For this purpose the lugs
on the carrier rods which, in coi5peration with the stops,
controlled the throw, were located between the end stops
of the full-fashioned machine and the stops moved by
the threaded nuts on the attachment.
It will be observed that this device, while not completely anticipating that of the patent, nevertheless
exhibited every element of the claim except the "patterncontrolled means for determining the direction of rotation of the spindle." This lack was supplied by Nusbaum,
whose machine was in common use as early as 1917. As
already indicated, the use of such a device in fullfashioned knitting machines to secure selvage variations
was known long before the Schletter application. In
order to effect this type of fashioning, the yarn carrier
stops were moved and their movements controlled by
stop nuts mounted on spindles with threads in reverse
located at either end of the knitting machine. Two-way
movement of the nuts was effected by mechanisms, under
pattern belt control, suitable to rotate the spindle in
either direction.
The Nusbaum machine was a modification of the existing flat knitting machine and was designed for knitting
reinforcements of variable width on sweaters which were
themselves not full fashioned, that is, not narrowed in the
knitting. The modification was devised for varying the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

throw of a secondary yarn carrier supplying yarn to
needles knitting upon the main fabric a reinforcement or
plaiting. To accomplish this, Nusbaum rebuilt an old
full-fashioned machine by using the existing end nuts
as a means of controlling the movements of the stops
which determine the length .of throw of a secondary yarn
carrier, and supplying a new carrier bar for the primary
yarn. Since the garment was not full-fashioned he placed
fixed stops at the ends of the machine so that the throw
of the primary thread carrier was constant. He used the
old automatically reversible spindle of the full-fashioned
machine as a means, wanting in the Gotham mechanism,
for increasing or diminishing at will the throw of the secondary yarn carrier. Instead of the single reversibly
threaded spindle of the Gotham machine, Nusbaum retained the two threaded shafts located at the ends of the
principal machine, each bearing twin ratchet wheels, each
of which was operated by a pawl contfolled through an
intermediate apparatus by buttons appropriately spaced
on a pattern belt. Only a single belt was used bearing
four rows of buttons, which by reversing the motion of the
spindle as desired operated to vary the throw of the yarn
carrier in conformity to the desired pattern.
It is true, as petitioner urges, that the threaded spindles
were located at the ends of the Nusbaum machine, and
that they were separate shafts although capable of being
operated in unison as if united in a single spindle such
as that shown by the Gotham attachment. Even with
tho double spindle synchronously operated instead of
the single spindle of the Gotham it was substantially the
device claimed by Schletter. In converting a full-fashioned knitting machine into a different type of straight
knitting machine which did not fashion the main fabric,
Nusbaum embodied in it a device for accurately controlling yarn guides for laying a secondary yarn less than
the length of the course being knitted, which was capa-

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. HIRSCH CO.
490

497

Opinion of the Court.

ble of producing designs having re~ntrant angles. This,
according to the specifications, is one of the objects to
be achieved by the patented device. The other is the
making of multiple designs and split-seam work.
As the pattern of the reinforcement or plait was to
be wholly within a single area on the main fabric and
did not extend to the selvage, Nusbaum used a single
yarn guide instead of the two which were required in the
Gotham attachment because the reinforcements were
upon detached areas of the fabric. Hence his machine
as set up could not do split-seam work or make double
designs, which could only be knitted by employing a
plurality of yarn guides with corresponding controls.
But the use of the device for these different methods of
knitting the secondary yarn involves but an obvious
adaptation of the claimed combination to the particular
work to be done. That may be accomplished by using
the device exhibited by Nusbaum as well as that claimed
by the patent, with the requisite number of controlled
yarn guides in the case of multiple designs and with
stops, both sides of which are used as carrier rod controls
in the case of split-seam work. This addition of yarn
guides and the varied use of the stops, even if invention,
are not embraced in the claims before us.
The addition of the reversing mechanism, used by
Nusbaum and previously used in the full-fashioned machine, to the elements exhibited by the Gotham, for the
purpose of effecting variations in the throw of the secondary yarn carrier in precisely the manner in which the
throw of the primary yarn carrier had been controlled in
full-fashioned machines, was plainly not invention. The
addition of a new and useful element to an old combination may be patentable; but the addition must be the
result of invention rather than the mere exercise of the
skill of the calling, and not one plainly indicated by the
prior art. Electric Cable Joint Co. v. Brooklyn Edison

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Co., 292 U. S. 69, 79, 80; Altoona Publix Theatres v.
American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 486. The art
of machine design in the knitting machine field is a
highly developed one. The addition to the combination
of the Gotham attachment of a means for automatically
reversing the rotary threaded spindle to perform the
very function it had performed in the full-fashioned knitting machine was not beyond the skill of the art and was
plainly foreshadowed, if not completely anticipated, by
Nusbaum.
The claims in suit do not embrace a train of mechanism
of any particular type for the transmission of control from
the power shaft to the pawls and so cannot rest on any
differences between the train employed by Schletter and
that of earlier devices. As the court below pointed out,
if the patent is valid it is either because of the novelty
of the conception of employing the Nusbaum device in
an attachment for a full-fashioned' machine, which Nusbaum had not done, or because of technical difficulties
in executing that conception. If there were such difficulties, which could be overcome only by invention,
Schletter did not show what they were or define such an
invention by the claims before us. He did show in his
specifications how to provide, by familiar mechanical
means, for one necessary relationship of the attachment
to the principal machine-the necessity that the threaded
spindle remain stationary while the fashioning stops are
moving. For this no invention is claimed, nor well could
be in view of the state of the art.
Petitioner relies on the novelty of conception reinforced by an alleged commercial success. Commercial
success may be decisive where invention is in doubt, but
an insuperable obstacle to the invocation of that doctrine
here is our inability, like that of the court below, to say
"that an art which knew how to reinforce 'full-fashioned'
webs Without re-entrant angles, and straight edged webs

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. HIRSCH CO.
490

499

Opinion of the Court.

with such angles, required some uncommon talent merely
to conceive of combining the two, for, as we have said,
the patent can only stand on the bare conception."
87 F. (2d) 705.
It is significant that the courts which, in Textile Machine Works v. Alfred Hofmann, Inc., supra, found invention, supported by commercial success, pointed to the
novelty not of this conception but of adding to the elements of the Gotham machine the automatic pattern controlled means for reversing the screw spindle. But
neither court made mention of the Nusbaum machine
which supplied that element. Upon the record before
us we cannot say that the commercial success is attributable to novelty of the bare conception of the use of the
attachment with full-fashioned knitting machines rather
than to the skill with which the patentee devised mechanisms for making the attachment effective, but for which
he made no claim, or to the strength of the hands into
which the patent came. Compare Paramount Publix
Corp. v. American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 464, 474,
with Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-Ergon
Corp., supra,487.
Affirmed.

