OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

540

Syllabus.

302 U. S.

Under the findings made by the District Court in this
cause, a decree of forfeiture should have been rendered
against the automobiles involved. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the District Court for action to be taken in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH

No. 146.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued November 12, 15, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. Section 150 of the Criminal Code provides that "whoever shall
have or retain in his control or possession after a distinctive paper
has been adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for the obligations and other securities of the United States, any similar paper
adapted to the making of any such obligation or other security,.
except under the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury or
some other proper officer of the United States, shall be fined . . ."
etc. Held, the words "similar paper adapted to the making of any
such obligation" embrace paper similar to though not identical
with the adopted distinctive paper and which is adapted to the
making of counterfeits of government obligations Pp. 545, 551.
2. Possession by an unauthorized person, of paper of practically the
same color, weight, thickness and appearance of the distinctive
paper theretofore adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for
obligations and securities of the United States; and which was cut
to the dimensions of genuine twenty dollar notes and rattled like
*

Together with No. 147, United States v. Fowler, also on writ of

certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
Counsel for Parties.

540

genuine money; and upon the surface of which were designed
red and blue marks closely resembling the red and blue fibers
embedded in the distinctive paper,-held, a violation of the Act.
Pp. 542, 552.
3. There is nothing in the legislative history of § 150 of the Criminal
Code which requires that the words "similar paper adapted to
the making of any such obligation" be construed as applying only
to the distinctive paper adopted by the Government, or to paper
identical therewith. P. 546.
4. A construction, of a statute which results in an inconsistency is
not favored. P. 547.
5. The construction here given § 150 of the Criminal Code is not
inconsistent with a grant of authority to certain officials to permit
possession of otherwise illicit paper. P. 551.
6. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in Krakowski v.
United States, 161 Fed. 88, holding that the Act prohibited possession of the distinctive paper only, is unsound; and the fact that
Congress subsequently revised and codified the criminal laws without change in this particular does not require that that decision be
followed. P. 552.
7. One decision construing a statute can not be regarded as a well
settled interpretation. P. 552.
8. Penal statutes need not be given their narrowest meaning, but
may be given their fair meaning in accord with the evident
legislative intent. P. 552.
89 F. (2d) 469, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 667, to review judgments reversing

judgments sentencing two defendants after conviction
upon an indictment for an offense against the currency.
Assistant Attorney General McMahon, with whom
Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. William W. Barron

and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. John Elliott Byrne, with whom Messrs. George R.
Jeffrey and W. H. F. Millar were on the brief, for
respondents.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

302 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents were convicted in a federal district court
for violating a provision of § 150 of the Criminal Code,1
which reads:
"whoever shall have.or retain in his control or possession
after a distinctive paper has been adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for the obligations and other securities of the United States, any similar paper adapted to the
making of any such obligation or other security, except
under the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury or
some other proper officer of the United States, shall be
fined not more thani $5,000, or imprisoned not more than
fifteen years, or both."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,' holding that
the act did not prohibit the possession of any except the
distinctive paper adopted by the Treasury, and that other
paper was not prohibited even though it closely resembled the distinctive paper and was well suited for successful counterfeiting. The court accordingly believed that
the evidence did not support a conviction.
The evidence disclosed that:
In 1928, the Secretary of the Treasury adopted a distinctive paper for obligations and securities of the United
States; this paper was a high grade rag bond having a
sharp rattle, very little gloss, and short fine silk fibers
distributed throughout; in 1936, respondents had possession of paper of practically the same color, weight, thickness and appearance as this distinctive government paper
and cut to the dimensions of twenty dollar government
obligations; respondents' paper rattled like genuine
inoney; it did not have red and blue silk fibers throughout, but red and blue marks were so expertly designed
upon its surface that one judge, dissenting below, after
'18 U. S. C., § 264; 35 Stat. 1116.
'89 F. (2d) 469.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

Opinion of the Court.

a careful examination of these marks with a magnifying
glass, was still wholly uncertain whether they were actually woven in the fabric or were traced on the surface.
Did respondents' possession of this paper violate the
act?
The paper was not only perfectly adapted for counterfeiting, but it is difficult to conceive of its use for any
other purpose. The history and language of the act are
both of importance in determining whether Congress intended to make it a crime to possess, without authority,
so close an imitation of the genuine paper adopted by the
Treasury.
1. The history of the law under which respondents were
convicted dates from a special session of Congress in 1837.
That Congress was called upon to pass legislation to meet
emergency conditions following crop failures, general business distress, unemployment and discontent. Urged to
action by these conditions, Congress authorized the issue
of a then unprecedented amount of treasury notes. It
had long been a criminal offense to make, utter, or pass
counterfeit money. Realizing that the protection of the
currency required more stringent laws against counterfeiters, 3 Congress made it a crime to possess any plate,
blank note, or paper to be used for counterfeiting pur'Counterfeiting increases in periods of commercial distress, unemployment, and poverty. Even prior to 1837, poverty contributed to
offenses against the currency, see Re Halmagh Ackerman, 5 N. Y.
City Hall Rec. (1820) 140, and counterfeiters kept paper in their
possession which was used for making counterfeit obligations, Re
Guy Johnson and William Johnson al. William Price, John Strickland, and Edward O'Melly, 5 N. Y. City Hall Rec. (1820) 138. In
1837 the prospect of increased counterfeiting-due to distressed economic conditions and the fact that non-federal agencies, both public
and private, had already put a large amount of papcr in circulationindicated the need recognized by Congress in strengthening the law.
See, Dewey "Financial History of the United States," Longmans,
Green & Co. (N. Y.),1915, p. 233. See Knox, "United States Notes,"
Scribner's (N. Y.) 1899, p. 40 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

poses.' This early forerunner of the present act provided
in part:
"If any person ... shall have in his custody or possession any paper adapted to the making of bank notes, and
similar to the paperupon which any such notes shall have
been issued, with intent to use such paper.., in forging
or counterfeiting any of the notes issued as aforesaid ...
such person . . . shall be sentenced" etc.
This original provision prohibited the possession of
"'similar" paper adapted to making "bank notes" but such
"bank notes" obviously were to be forged or counterfeitnot genuine. This first act thus'prohibited-not the genuine-but counterfeit paper, intended to be made into
counterfeit obligations, and its language and meaning
were substantially rebnacted in 1847, 1857, 1860, 1861 and
1862.5
Beginning December, 1860, Congress, to meet imper4tive needs, again authorized great increases in government
obligations. By July, 1862, new issues of currency and
unsettled conditions had so stimulated counterfeiting
that Congress made special funds available to detect and
punish those guilty of the crime.' Such action proved
inadequate to curb counterfeiters, and in 1863, Congress
reenacted, strengthened and strongly reinforced the 1837
prohibition against possession of paper for counterfeiting ' The 1863 law made it a crime to "imitate, counterfeit,
make, or sell any paper such as that used, or provided to
be used, for the fractional notes." Although the law had
prohibited the possession of paper imitating the genuine
4 Act of October 12, 1837, c. 2, §§ 10, 11, 5 Stat. 201, 203.
'Act of January 28, 1847, c. 5, §§ 9, 10, 9 Stat. 118, 120; Act of
December 23, 1857, c. 1, §§ 12, 13, 11 Stat. 257, 259; Act of December 17, 1860, c. 1, §§ 12, 13, 12 Stat. 121,,123; Act of July 17, 1861,
c. 5, § 10, 12 Stat. 259, 261;.Act of February 25, 1862, c. 33, §§ 6, 7,
12 Stat. 345, 347, 348.
6 Act of July 11, 1862, c. 142, § 5, 12 Stat. 532, 533.
'Act of March 3, 1863, c. 73, § 8, 12 Stat. 709, 713.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

Opinion of the Court.

since 1837, this 1863 amendment struck vigorously at all
who in any manner trafficked in such imitation paper.
By July, 1864, the government had outstanding approximately two billion dollars in war obligations, and the
counterfeiter had become a still greater public enemy.
Under these circumstances, with more currency to be.
issued, and the necessity for protection from counterfeiters greatly accentuated, Congress once more reenacted
the 1837 Act 8 and made it a more effective weapon against
counterfeiters." The element of intent was stricken from
the offense and themere unauthorized possession of imitation paper was made a crime. Congress also combined
the phrase "paper adapted to the making of bank notes"
with the phrase "similar to the paper upon which any
such notes shall have been issued." It is the phrase resulting from this combination-"similar paper adapted to
'Act of June 30, 1864, c. 172, §§ 10, 11, 12, 13 Stat. 218, 221, 222.
'In the period preceding this enactment there was again a marked
increase in counterfeiting. "There is reported to be in circulation
throughout the United States, at the present time, over three thousand issues of counterfeit, spurious, raised and altered bank billsan average of two issues to every bank in operation. Supposing each
issue would average one thousand bills, which is a moderate calculation, there would be three million counterfeit bills in circulation; and
the cry is, still they come!" Reedy, "The Universal Bank Note, Draft
and Check Detector," New Orleans, 1858, p. 15. This growth resulted
in alarming injury to the currency. "Annual Report, Assn. of Banks
for the Suppression of Counterfeiting," Boston, 1859. After 1860,
counterfeiting increased steadily. Id. 1860; id. 1862. "Specie payments were suspended on December 28, 1861. The war was carried
on chiefly by the use of treasury notes as a circulating medium."
Knox, supra, p. 84. See Hepburn, "A History of Currency in the
United States." MacMillan (N. Y.) 1915, pp. 179-204. However,
by October 1862, it was reported that counterfeiting was widespread
in America and uneasiness was being felt among Americans about the
genuineness of the treasury and other notes issued by the United
States. "The Bankers Magazine," London, Vol. XXII, p. 615 (1862).
Improved means of preventing counterfeiting in order to maintain
public faith in the currency became of great importance.

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U:S.

making such obligations"--which was construed by the
court below to limit the prohibited paper to the genuine
Treasury-adopted paper. These phrases, carried in the
law from 1837 to 1864, had obviously referred to any
paper suitable for counterfeiting. If the Congress of 1864
did intend by combining these phrases to exempt from
the act all who had possession of imitation paper, it
thereby deliberately weakened the chance of the government to convict and punish counterfeiters. We do not
impute such a purpose to Congress. By the change
made in 1864 Congress undoubtedly intended to make the
law a more effective weapon against counterfeiters. Indeed, two days after this amendment was passed Congress authorized a special appropriation to detect and
punish counterfeiters. ° It is beyond belief that Congress
intended to relax the law against counterfeiters at a time
when the Nation was engaged in financing a war. Such
a constr'iction would be neither logical nor reasonable.
The section now under consideration is plainly the culmination of a long series of legislative acts, each of which
has declared it to be a crime to have possession of paper,
counterfeiting the distinctive paper, and suitable to be
made into counterfeit obligations. Each change since
1837 was intended to make the possession of counterfeit
paper more dangerous for counterfeiters.
Finding nothing in the history of this law which supports the construction given it by the court below, we
proceed to an examination and analysis of the particular
language believed to justify that construction.
2. That particular language is the phrase "similarpaper
adapted to making such obligations." The word "similar," and the phrase "adapted to making such obligations
10

Act of July 2, 1864, c. 210, § 3, 13 Stat. 344, 351.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

Opinion of the Court.

or securities," both describe the type of paper the possession of which is prohibited. The definitions given by
the court below to this word and this phrase are
irreconcilable.
That court defined "similar" to mean "somewhat
alike"; "not exactly alike"; "like, but not exactly the
same," "Similaf paper," thus defined, cannot be identical
with the distinctive paper adopted by the government, because while the two papers would be "somewhat alike,"
they would not be "exactly alike" or "exactly the same."
Similarity is not identity, but resemblance between different things.1 Under this definition, "similar paper,"
the possession of which is prohibited, is not identical with,
but differs from the distinctive paper.
However, after giving this definition to similar paper
(which is prohibited by the act), the court below concluded that the phrase "adapted to making such obligations" limits the prohibition of the act to the distinctive
paper. This conclusion is not consistent with the determination that "similar"-also describing the paper prohibited-designates paper which is different from the
distinctive paper. A construction that creates an inconsistency should be avoided when a reasonable interpretation can be adopted which will not do violence to the plain
words of the act, and will carry out the intention of
1 2
Congress.
There is no inconsistency in the act unless it is assumed
that the word "obligations" refers to genuine obligations
only. Since words that have one meaning in a particular
context frequently have a different significance in an"Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 278, 282, 283. See, Rhode Island Hospital v. Olney, 16 R. I. 184; 13 AtI. 118.
12 New Lamp Chimney Co. v. Ansonia Brass & Copper Co., 91 U. S.

656.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

other,la it is necessary to consider the context of the words
"such obligations," in order to determine their significance. The provision of law here construed is the last of
seven separate offenses set out in one paragraph of a
chapter of the Criminal Code entitled "Offenses against
the Currency." The provisions of this chapter were
enacted to prevent and punish counterfeiting. Six closely
connected companion offenses are set out in the same
section with the offense charged against respondents and
all either penalize the possession of, or trafficking in,
counterfeit obligations or the materials and devices used
to make such obligations.
Examining the context of the words under consideration we find that the word "obligations" appears throughout the Chapter relating to offenses against the currency,
and does not always apply to "genuine" obligations, but
may, and often does refer to "counterfeit" or "spurious"
obligations. In order to distinguish between counterfeit
and genuine instruments, the provisions in some instances specifically designate notes as "false, forged or
counterfeited" as in § 149. On the other hand, § 152
makes it a crime for any person, without authority, to
make tools to be used in printing "any kind or description of obligation or other security of the United States
now or hereafter to be authorized by the United States
•. *"
* . Although these quoted words are "any
kind of . . . obligation . . . authorized by the United
States," the reference is not to genuine obligations, but
to counterfeit obligations, not only printed "without authority" but printed with counterfeit tools
made by the counterfeiter. It is apparent from the context that in this instance the phrase "obligation . ..
authorized by the United States" refers to a counterfeit
" Porto Rico Sugar Co. v. Lorenzo, 222 U. S. 481; Lamar v. United
States, 240 U. S. 60; Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers v. United States, 286
U. S. 427.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

549

Opinion of the Court.

obligation. Both before and since the 1837 act words
such as "bills," "notes" and "obligations" have been used
as meaning counterfeit instruments."
The relative positions of the words we are examining
are important. The first word describing the prohibited
paper is "similar." Unless the paper possessed is "similar"
to the distinctive paper of the government, its possession
is not prohibited. Genuine obligations can only be made
from the genuine distinctive paper, with a genuine design;
with genuine lithographing; and with genuine signatures.
Conversely, counterfeit obligations would be the result
of designs, lithographing, signatures or paper-not gen14 As illustrative, the following extracts from cases involving offenses
against the currency refer to false or counterfeit instruments:
"When a man has the possession of the number of notes alleged in the
indictment, with an intention of uttering and passing them for
the fraudulent purpose expressed, he has done all that, in words,
is necessary to constitute the offense." Commonwealth v. Cone,
2 Mass. 132, at p. 134 (1806); "Without mentioning any other differences, it is sufficient to observe, that to constitute the crime
described in the former, the possession of at least ten bills is necessary . . ." Brown v. Commonwealth, 8 Mass. 59, at p. 71 (1811);
"Bowdain Brastow, was indicted and tried for passing a $10 bill of
the Merchants' Bank . . ." Re Halmagh Ackerman, supra, p. 140
(1820); "In the same place, they found a copper-plate press, a plate
for engraving $2 bills on the Merchants' Bank, and under the roller
of the press, a bill of that description recently struck off." Re Guy
Johnson & William Johnson al. William Price, John Strickland and
Edward O'Melly, supra, p. 138 (1820); cf. State v. Randall, 2 Vt.
(Aiken) 89, Q1827); (cf. Baldwin v. Van Deusen where it is stated:
"In reference to bank-bills, bills of exchange, promissory notes and
securities for money, the natural and general, if not the universal,
antithesis or opposite of genuine, is 'counterfeit.' Hence we say
of a bank-bill it is a genuine bill-i. e., not a counterfeit bill .. ."
37 N. Y. 487, at p. 493, (1868)); see, Wiggains v. United States,
214 Fed. 970, at p. 971; "The bonds admittedly belonged to the
plaintiff in error." Forlini v. United States, 12 F. (2d) 631, at
p. 634; " . . . appellant visited the basement while counterfeiting
operations were in progress and participated in conversations as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

uine, but merely "similar" to the genuine. When, therefore, Congress used the words "similar paper" it included
within its prohibition an imitation or counterfeit of the
genuine paper. The effect was the same as though it had
prohibited possession of a government obligation bearing a signature "similar" to the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury. After the appearance of the word
"similar," subsequent words descriptive of the prohibited
paper require a construction that will give effect to the
Congressional intent to prohibit the possession of paper
which is an imitation or counterfeit of that adopted by
the government.
In United States v. Howell, 11 Wall. 432, 436, this
Court construed a similar statute which so far as pertinent
provided:
"That if any person . . shall falsely make, forge,
counterfeit, or alter . . . any note . . . issued under the

authority of this act, or heretofore issued under acts to
authorize the issue of Treasury notes or bonds; . . . or
shall have or keep in possession, . . .any such false,
forged, counterfeited, or altered note . . . [such person]
shall be .. . guilty of felony . . ." etc.

The defendant indicted under that statute urged that
the words "such . . . note" referred back to those notes
the appearance of the bills that were being made and the necessity
of putting more yellow in the coloring"; Nebbelink v. United States,
66 F. (2d) 178; "One bill was found in his clothes, and he volunteered to show the officers where the rest were. . . . The sole issue
was as to whether after Hatlen showed him the bills, he co-operated
with him in disposing of them . . ." United States v. Gates, 67 F.
(2d) 885; "The obligations were described as United States notes
and identified by denomination, series number, and plate numbers."
Simon v. United States, 78 F. (2d) 454, at p. 455. The word "banknote" may mean-not a genuine-but a counterfeit obligation.
Webster's New International Dictionary (Merriam, 1914) in defining the word "counterfeit" uses as an illustration, "The banknote
was a counterfeit."

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

Opinion of the Court.

that had been "issued under the authority of this act";
that notes issued under authority of the act were genuine;
that the act, therefore, did not prohibit passing or possessing a counterfeit note.
This Court gave credit for the plausibility of such an
argument, but said it was:
"at war with common sense, which assures us that the
purpose of the act was to punish the making of counterfeits of the notes and bonds described in the statute ...
We are to give due weight to all of the words employed
in describing the instrument, . . . So we speak of a bank
note. Now if the paper spoken of is a forgery it is not a
bank note, which means an obligation of some bank to
pay money. But here also the mind supplies the ellipsis
which good usage allows, and understands that what
is meant is a forged paper in the similitude of a bank
note, or which on its face appears to be such a note."
P. 436.
So, in this case, paper which was in the possession of an
unauthorized person and which was merely similar to
genuine government paper, could not possibly be adapted
to making genuine government obligations. In this
statute, the words "similar paper adapted to making government obligations" imply that the similar paper should
be adapted to making obligations that purport to be genuine and valid, but are not.
This construction is not inconsistent with a grant of
authority to certain officials to permit possession of the
prohibited paper. In this same Chapter containing laws
to protect the currency of the United States there are
other similar grants of authority relating to counterfeiting
devices and permission can also be granted to possess the
actual counterfeiting instruments or obligations.
The fact that Congress revised and codified the criminal
laws after the Court of Appeals in the. case of Krakowski
v. United States, 161 Fed. 88, held that the act only

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

prohibited possession of the distinctive paper does not
detract from the soundness of this conclusion. One
decision construing an act does not approach the dignity
of a well settled interpretation." 5 It is not necessary to
determine the effect of including this act in the Revised
Statutes and the Criminal Code.
We are not unmindful of the salutary rule which requires strict construction of penal statutes. No rule of
construction, however,- requires that a penal statute be
strained and distorted in order to exclude conduct clearly
intended to be within its scope-nor does any rule require
that the act be given the "narrowest meaning." It is
sufficient if the words are given their fair meaning in
accord with the evident intent of Congress.' Certainly, if
Congress had intended to prohibit only the possession of
distinctive paper it would have simply used the words
"distinctive paper" instead of the distinguishing words
"similar paper adapted to the making of any such
obligation."
The evidence does support the conviction of respondents. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed
and the judgment of conviction is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and

I have reached a different conclusion.
The judicial function, as many times we have been
told, does not include the power to amend a statute. And
1"For prosecutions under the Act subsequent to the Krakowski
case, supra, see the following cases: United States v. Rosen (W. D.
Tex.), February 14, 1931; United States v. Regsich and Grubich
(W. D. Pa.), December 16, 1920; United States v. Marchetti (N. D.
Ohio), June 18, 1924; United States v. Maratea and Plocket (E. D.
Pa.), January 21, 1932.
16 United States v. Giles, 300 U. S. 41.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

while penal statutes are not to be construed so strictly as
to defeat the obvious intention of the lawmaker, nevertheless-"Before one may be punished, it must appear
that his case is plainly within the statute; there are no
constructive offenses." United States v. Resnick, 299
U. S. 207, 210.
We think the opinion just handed dowr undertakes to
import a meaning into the pertinent statute at war with
its words. That statute requires the existence of four
distinct elements before the accused can be held guilty
of violating it: (1) the adoption by the Secretary of a
distinctive paper for the obligations and other securities
of the United States; (2) possession or retention by the
accused of "similar paper"; (3) the paper to be "adapted
to the making of any such obligation or other security";
and (4) the possession, or retention not to be under the
authority of the Secretary of the Treasury or some other
proper officer of the United States..
The word "similar," it is true, generally indicates resemblance and not exact identity, although in some cases
it may mean "identical" or "exactly like." Fletcher v.
Interstate Chemical Co., 94 N. J. L. 332, 334; 110 Atl.
709. The distinction is illustrated by the decision of
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in Commonwealth v. Fontain, 127 Mass. 452, 454, where it was
held that the words "similar offense" meant an offense
identical in kind. The court said, "The word 'similar'
is often used to denote a partial resemblance only. But
it is also often used to denote sameness in all essential
particulars. We think the Legislature intended to use
it in the latter sense in the statute we are considering."
To determine the precise meaning of the word here, we
must turn to the statute. The crucial elements there
disclosed are those embraced by clause (2), requiring
that the paper possessed or retained be "similar paper"

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

to that adopted by the Secretary, and by clause (3) which
requires that the paper be adapted to the making of
"such" obligation or security. It is as necessary to give
appropriate effect to the latter clause as it is to the former.
It is not enough that the paper would be "similar" paper
within the meaning of clause (2) standing alone; for
it does not stand alone, but is associated with and qualified by clause (3). Nothing is better settled in the law
of statutory construction than the rule that words by
themselves may have a particular meaning, but that
this meaning may be enlarged or restricted when considered in connection with other associated words. And
this is more especially true where the associated words
supplement and qualify the preceding ones as they do
here.
In order to apply the rule, we must ascertain the
meaning of clause (3), since that adds the requirement
that the similar paper shall be adapted to the making of
"such" obligation or security. That is to say, we first
must determine the import of the word "such"; and that
is disclosed by clause (1), providing for the adoption of
distinctive paper for the obligations and securities of the
United States. This means, and can only mean, genuine
obligations and securities, since it cannot be supposed
either that the Secretary, by clause (1), is authorized to
adopt paper for any that are not genuine, or that his
authority under clause (4) is not alone to permit possession of paper adapted to making genuine obligations but
extends to paper which resembles the adopted paper only
enough to make it adaptable for counterfeiting those
obligations. It follows, necessarily, that it is genuine
obligations and securities and not counterfeits of them
that are embraced by the word "such" in clause (3).
The provisions of the statute were not meant to cover
counterfeiting, or preparations antecedent to counterfeiting. Their whole purpose was to penalize possession or

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.
540

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

retention by unauthorized persons of the distinctive kind
of paper which the Secretary has adopted for the making
of the obligations of the United States; language which,
as we have said, necessarily imports genuine obligations,
because if not genuine they would not be obligations of
the United States at all.
The government, however, takes the view that the
statute extends to the possession of paper suitable, not
for making genuine obligations, but for counterfeiting
them. And this view, as we understand it, is also taken
by the court in its present opinion. The difficulty with
that view, however, is that it requires the introduction
of an amendment so that clause (3), instead of reading
"adapted to the making of any such obligation," etc.,
will read "adapted to the making of counterfeits of any
such obligation," etc. Such an assumption of legislative
power is inadmissible.
That the paper here in question, even if in the hands
of the Treasury, was not adapted to the making of genuine
obligations, is beyond dispute. The distinctive feature
of the paper adopted by the Secretary is the presence of
short, fine red-and-blue silk fibers impregnated in and
distributed throughout a high-grade rag bond paper.
These silk fibers are entirely absent from the paper here
in question; and while it might have been used for
counterfeiting government obligations, it was not adapted
to .making the genuine articles. The present decision
brings within the reach of the statute every stationer
who has in his possession for sale any high-grade rag
bond paper, if it is capable of being used for counterfeiting
government obligations. For the statute, it will be observed, requires no criminal intent, and nothing beyond
mere possession or retention.
The view of the statute which we have expressed was
adopted thirty years ago by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit in Krakowski v. United States,

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

161 Fed. 88. In the meantime, Congress has left the
statute in its original form. The government did not see
fit to ask review of the Krakowski case, but has apparently acquiesced in it for all those years. This court
should not be expected to disregard the established rules
of statutory construction in order to remedy a situation
which Congress could have cured, and may still cure,
by a simple act of legislation. We think the well-reasoned opinion of the court below should be accepted and
its judgment affirmed.
LANASA FRUIT STEAMSHIP & IMPORTING CO. v.
UNIVERSAL INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

FOR THE

Argued December 10, 1937.-Decided January 10, 1938.

1. In deciding this case concerning the liability of an insurer for loss
of a cargo of fruit, both courts below assumed that the fruit was
in sound condition when shipped and would have been merchantable at the end of the voyage had it not been for the stranding of
the ship and consequent delay. Held that this Court, in reviewing
the question decided, will make the same assumptions. P. 559.
2. Application of a general coverage clause of a marine insurance
policy held unaffected by a rider attached for an additional
premium, after the policy had been long in effect, but canceled
before the occurrence of the loss. P. 560.
The rider covered losses not embraced in the marine perils
against which the policy insured and it also covered losses which
were already covered by the policy, and there was room for difference of opinion as to exactly how far the rider overlapped.
3. Stranding of the ship is a peril of the sea. P. 561.
4. The doctrine of proximate cause is applied strictly in marine insurance cases. P. 562.
5. A vessel carrying a cargo of bananas stranded en voyage. The
stranding caused delay, with the result that the fruit, which was
sound when shipped and, but for the delay, would have been

