OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

FRAD v. KELLY, U. S. MARSHAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 87. Argued November 9, 10, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.
1. Where a defendant in a criminal prosecution in the federal district
court pleads guilty upon three separate indictments, the court may
impose a sentence of fine and imprisonment upon one indictment,
and on each of the others may suspend the imposition of sentence
and place the defendant on probation for a definite period to begin
upon completion of service of the sentence on the first. Probation
Act of 1925, §§ 1-2; 18 U. S. C., §§ 724-725. P. 315.
2. A federal district judge who, while sitting in a criminal case in a
district to which he had been assigned pursuant to R. S. § 591, as*
amended, had, upon a plea of guilty, suspended sentence and placed
the- defendant upon probation, is without authority, after the termination of his service in that district, to make an order revoking
the probation and terminating the proceedings against the probationer. P. 317.
3. A court other than that in which the judgment and sentence are
recorded is without authority, either under the Probation Act or
the statute providing for the assignment of judges, to make an
order, pursuant to § 2 of the'Probation Act, revoking probation
and terminating the proceedings against the probationer. P. 318.
4. Limitations upon the jurisdiction of the assigned judge can not
be waived by the actions of the probation officer or of the District
Attorney. P. 319.
89 F. (2d) 866, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

301 U. S. 681, to review a judgment re-

versing orders of the district court Which discharged the
petitioner upon a writ of habeas corpus and denied a
motion by the Government to sentence him upon indictments under which probation had been granted.
Mr. Harris Jay Griston for petitioner.
Solicitor General - Reed, Assistant Attorney Genoral McMahon, and Messrs. William W. Barron, Bates

FRAD v. KELLY.
312

Opinion of the Court.

Booth and Edward J. Ennis were on a brief for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner pleaded guilty to three indictments in
the District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Judge Inch, a district judge of the Eastern District of
New York, who had been designated and assigned to sit
in the Southern District, pursuant to R. S. 591, as
amended,' received the pleas and imposed a sentence under the first indictment (No. C 96-116) of two years'
imprisonment and $1,000 fine. Under the other indictments he made identical orders: "Imposition of sentence suspended. Probation for four years to begin after
serving sentence on C 96-116. Subject to the standing
probation orders of this Court." The petitioner paid his
fine and served his sentence and thereupon entered upon
his period of probation.
Twenty months after Judge Inch had returned to his
own district, application was made to him at chambers,
to discharge the petitioner from probation and to terminate the proceedings against him, pursuant to § 2 of
the Probation Act of March 4, 1925.2 The judge directed that notice of the application be given to the probation officer of the Southern District of New York. This
was done and, after a hearing on the merits in the Eastern District, at which the probation officer was present
and took part, Judge Inch entered an order revoking the
probation, discharging the petitioner from further supervision and terminating the proceedings against him. The
order was captioned in the "United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York" and was filed in
the office of the clerk of that court.
'U. S. Code, Title 28, § 17.

'U. S. Code, Title 18, § 725.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

About a year later, on a petition by the probation officer of the Southern District, a judge sitting in that district
authorized a warrant for the petitioner's apprehension
upon a charge of violation of the terms of his probation.
The petitioner was arrested and admitted to bail pending
a hearing.
Thereafter the United States Attorney for the Southern
District moved to vacate the order of Judge Inch terminating the probation and the proceedings. By stipulation,
of counsel, Judge Inch returned to the Southern District
to hear the parties upon this motion but he entered no
order, since, meantime, the petitioner had surrendered
himself to'the marshal and sought a writ of habeas corpus,
and the United States Attorney had moved before a
judge sitting in the Southern District that the petitioner
be sentenced on the two indictments under which sentence had been suspended.' The petition for the writ
and the motion for sentence were heard together; the
petition was granted, and the motion was denied. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the
cause "for the consideration of the revocation of [the
petitioner's] probation and for sentence if warranted." ,
We granted the writ of certiorari because of the importance of the questions presented in the administration
of the Probation Act. We hold that the judgment of
the court below was right.
First. Trhe contention that the trial court was without
power to suspend the imposition of sentences on the pleas
of guilty to two of the indictments and, place the de'In fact there were two motions, The one was for sentence on
the two indictments. This apparently was not pressed. The other
was for an order committing the petitioner "for the period of the
unserved portion of his sentence . . . to wit, four years in a place
to be designated by the Attorney General of the United States, and
for such other, further, and different relief as to the court may seem
just and proper."
189 F. (2d) 866.

FRAD v. KELLY.
312

Opinion of the Court.

fendant on probation effective after completion of service of sentence on the third indictment is without merit.
Based upon this contention the petitioner says that when
he had completed service of the sentence imposed on indictment C 96-116 there remained no sentence against
him and the term having long since expired the court
was without power then to impose one.
The Probation Act (supra) provides, in § 1, that
United States courts having original jurisdiction of crimnal actions, being satisfied that the ends of justice and
the best interests of -the public and of the defendant will
be served thereby, shall have power, after conviction for
any crime or offense not punishable by death or life imprisonment, "to suspend the imposition or execution of
sentence and to place the defendant upon probation for
such period and upon such terms and conditions as they
may deem best," or to impose a fine and place the defendant upon probation; to revoke or modify any condition of probation or change the period thereof, provided
that the period with any extensions shall not exceed
five years. The act Was intended to cure the lack of
power indefinitely to suspend a sentence, under which
district courts labored prior to the enactment.'
The sec6nd section provides that at any time within the
probation period, or at any time after the probation period but within the maximum period for which the defendant might originally have been sentenced, the probationer may be summoned before the court and "the
court may revoke the probation or the suspension of
sentence, and may impose any sentence which might
originally have been imposed." The action of the trial
court in suspending sentence and imposing probation on
two of the indictments was in strict accordance with the
authority thus explicitly conferred. The validity of the
Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

cited provisions is not open to question.'
The mere
fact that a sentence of a fine and imprisonment had been
imposed upon one of the indictments in no way militated
against the prescription of probation
in respect of the
7
plea of guilty under the other two.
Second. The order of Judge Inch, sitting in the Eastern
District, after the termination of his service in the Southern District, was null. The statute providing for designation and assignment of a district judge to sit temporarily in another district than his own does not authorize the order, and the express provisions and obvious
intent of the Probation Act negate the power of any
judge, other than a judge of the Southern District of
New York, to make it.
The Act of March 3, 1911, § 18, as amended,' provides: "Any designated and assigned judge who has held
court in another district than his own shall have power,
notwithstanding his absence from such district and the
expiration of the time limit in his designation, to decide
all matters which have been submitted to him within
such district, to decide motions for new trials, settle bills
of exceptions, certify or authenticate narratives of testimony, or perform any other act required by law or the
rules to be performed in order to prepare any case so
tried by him for review in an appellate court;
When an assigned judge has presided at the trial of a
cause, he is to have power, though the period of his service has expired, and though he may have returned to his
own district, to perform the functions which are incidental
and supplementary to the duties performed by him while
present and acting in the designated district. And where
a cause has been submitted to him in the designated district, after his return to his own district he may enter
decrees or orders and file opinions necessary to dispose of
o Escoe

v. Zerbst, 295 U. S. 490, 492.

7 Compare Burns v. United States, 287 U. S. 216.
U. S. Code, Tit. 28, § 22.

FRAD v. KELLY.
312

Opinion of the Court.

the case, notwithstanding the termination of his period
of service in the foreign district. But the Act goes no
farther. It clearly does not contemplate that he shall
decide any matter which has not been submitted to him
within the designated district. A criminal trial is concluded by the judgment of sentence entered upon a plea
or a verdict of guilt. By express provision of the statute
an assigned judge may thereafter, notwithstanding the
expiration of his term of service, hear a motion for a new
trial and do all things necessary to prepare a record for
an appellate court, but no authority is given to hear a
new matter even though that new matter may arise in
the same case. An application for the termination of the
probation and the proceedings against a defendant constitutes a new matter, submission of which may not be
made to the assigned judge after his return to his own
district. The appropriate place for its presentation is the
court in which the judgment of conviction and the sentence are recorded. In the absence of express authorization no power to deal with such an application is vested
in any other court.
All the relevant provisions of the Probation Act refer
to the court in which the guilt of the defendant was determined and sentence imposed. The first section empowers the court having jurisdiction of the action to place
the defendant upon probation, and to revoke or modify
the conditions of the probation. The second requires the
probation officer, when directed by the court, to report
to the court as to the conduct of the probationer; authorizes the court either to discharge the probationer from
further supervision or to terminate the proceedings
against him or to extend the period of probation, to issue
a warrant, upon a proper showing, for the probationer's
arrest and, upon a hearing, to revoke the probation or the
suspension of sentence and to impose a sentence which
might have originally been imposed. Sec.t.on three au-

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

thorizes the judge of any United States court to appoint
one or more suitable persons as probation officers "within
the jurisdiction and under the discretion of the judge
making such appointment or of his successor." Section
four places upon a probation officer the duty to investigate any case referred to him for investigation by the
court in which he is serving and to report thereon to the
court, and such other duties as the court may direct.
Thus the trial court has complete supervision over the
probationer for the period of his probation and for the
term of the maximum sentence which might have been
imposed. This jurisdiction is vested in the trial court
and in no other. To hold that a judge of another district, merely because he had temporarily sat at the trial
and conviction of a defendant and imposed sentence,
could, from that other district, supervise, extend, modify
or terminate the probation, would be to ignore the intent of the law. It would moreover result in confusion
and inconvenience in the administration of the Probation Act. It would mean that the United States Attorney and his assistants, and a probation officer of the
court in which the judgment is recorded, would be required to go to distant parts to be heard upon the merits
of any application by the probationer and that the probationer, at his will, could institute proceedings either
before a judge of the court in which his conviction is
recorded or the judge in a different district who had been
a temporary member of that court. Such a possibility
was certainly never intended. Probation is a system
of tutelage under the supervision and control of the court
which has jurisdiction over the convicted defendant, has
the record of his conviction and sentence, the records and
reports as to his compliance with the conditions of his
probation, and the aid of the local probation officer, under
whose supervision the defendant is placed. This jurisdiction is not divided between that court and a distant
judge who sat by designation at the defendant's -trial.

PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
Syllabus.

Third. What has been said indicates the answer to petitioner's -argument that the probation officer of the
Southern District, by appearing before Judge Inch in the
Eastern District upon the application for termination of
the proceedings, and the United States Attorney, by
stipulating that Judge Inch might return to the Southern
District to hear a motion for resettlement of his order,
have waived yenue or are estopped to question it.
Neither of these officers could confer jurisdiction upon a
designated judge to perform acts not authorized by the
assignment Act outside the district of designation after
his term of service had ended. They could not waive the
jurisdictional requirements of the Probation Act or by
their conduct confer jurisdiction on a judge of another
district to act for the trial court in which alone the
statute vests the power to deal with the subject.
The judgment is.
Affrmed.
PALKO v. CONNECTICUT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 135. Argued November 12, 1937.-Decided December 6,1937.
1. Under a state statute allowing appeal by the State in criminal
cases, when permitted by the trial judge, for correction of errors of
law, a sentence of life imprisonment, on a conviction of murder in
the second degree, was reversed. Upon retrial, the accused was
convicted of murder in the first degree and sentenced to death. Held
consistent with due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 322.
2. Assuming that the prohibition of double jeopardy in the Fifth
Amendment applies to jeopardy in the same case if the new trial
be at the instance of the Government and not upon defendant's
motion, it does not follow that a like prohibition is applicable*against
state action by force of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp.' 322
et seq.

