OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 15.

Arg ed October 18, 1937.-Decided November 8, i937.

1. A conclusion by the Board of Tax Appeals which is but a conclusion of law or a determination of a mixed question of law and
fact based upon other facts found, is subject to review. P. 38.
2. A payment can not be both "compensation for personal service"
within the meaning of ยง 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928 and
a "gift" under (b) (3) of the same section. Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716, distinguished. P. 39.
3. Payments made to present and former employees of a corporation, by its former stockholders, acting through a new corporation which had taken over part of the property of the other,held not "compensation for personal services," taxable to the recipients as income under ยง 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928,
but "gifts," exempted from taxation by subdivision (b) (3) of
that section. P. 40.
No connection subsisted between the old corporation or the recipients of the gifts, on the one hand, and the makers of the gifts
and their ncw corporation, on the other. The gifts were made,
without any legal or moral obligation, not for any services rendered or to be rendered or for any consideration given or to be
given by any of the recipients to the donors or the new corporation,
but were acts of spontaneous generosity in appreciation of the
past loyalty of the recipients which had redounded to the profit
of the donors when stockholders of the older company.
4. When all the facts and circumstances clearly prove an intent to
make a gift, the erroneous use of the terms "honorarium" and
"bonus" can not convert the gift into a payment for services.
P. 42.
5. A gift is none the less a gift because inspired by gratitude for the
past faithful service of the recipient. P. 44.
88 F. (2d) 646, reversed.

301 U. S. 674, of a judgment
which affirmed an order of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a deficiency assessment of income tax.
REVIEW by certiorari,

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William D. Whitney, with whom Mr. George G.
Tyler was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. F. Prescott, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Morris, Messrs. Sewall Key
and John G. Remey and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether a sum of money
received by petitioner in January, 1931, was "compensation" subject to the federal income tax, or a "gift" exempt therefrom. The Commissioner held it to be compensation, constituting part of petitioner's gross income,
and declared a deficiency. The Board of Tax Appeals
sustained the determination of the 'Commissioner; and
the court below, upon review, affirmed the order of the
Board. 88 F. (2d) 646.
The decisions of other courts of appeal upon the question under review are conflicting. Upon the one side,
the First Circuit, Walker v. Commissioner, 88 F. (2d) 61,
Judge Morton dissenting, the Fourth, Hall v. Commissioner, 89 F. (2d) 441, and the Fifth, Simpkinson v. Commissioner, 89 F. (2d) 397, lend definite support to the
decision of the court below. Upon the other side, more or
less definitely to the contrary, are to be found the decisions of the Third Circuit, Jones v. Commissioner, 31 F.
(2d) 755; Cunningham v. Commissioner, 67 F. (2d) 205,
the Sixth, Lunsford v. Commissioner, 62 F. (2d) 740, and
the Ninth, Blair v. Rosseter, 33 F. (2d) 286. No useful
purpose would be served by reviewing these decisions;
and we pass to a consideration of the case before us.
The facts follow:
The amount ($10,000) received by petitioner was part
of a distribution, aggregating over $600,000, made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Unopco Corporation at the instance of its stockholders
to petitioner and others who had theretofore rendered
service as employees or in some other capacity to the
Universal Oil Products Company. The Universal company was a corporation organized in 1914. In the beginning, its only asset was an application for a patent
for a process for refining petroleum and manufacturing
gasoline. It thereafter acquired other patents, which it
licensed to various producers on a royalty basis. Beginning in 1922, its business developed increasingly until by
1930 its royalties amounted to about $9,000,000. In January, 1931, its entire stock was sold to the United Gasoline Corporation for $25,000,000. Prior to the sale, and
in contemplation of it, the Unopco Corporation had
been organized for the purpose of acquiring, and it did
acquire, certain assets of the Universal company of the
value of over $4,000,000. Up to the time of this acquisition, the Unopco company had never engaged in any
business activities, and thereafter its only business was
the investment and management of the assets thus
acquired.
All of the former stockholders of the Universal company became stockholders of the Unopco, with the same
proportionate holdings. None of them, after the sale of
the Universal stock, held any stock in the Universal, or in
the United Gasoline Corporation. Under its new ownership, the Universal continued to carry on the same business, retaining a large part of its assets. A few days after
the sale of the Universal company's stock, the former
stockholders, then stockholders of the Unopco, held a
meeting at which it was proposed that they show their appreciation of the loyalty and support of some of the employees of the Universal company by making them a, "gift
or honorarium." A resolution to that effect was adopted
at a meeting of the board of directors of Unopco on

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Opinion of the Court.

January 9, 1931, and by the stockholders the following
day. By these resolutions, it was resolved that the sum
of $607,500 be appropriated, paid and distributed, as a
bonus, to 64 former and -present employees, attorneys
and experts of Universal Oil Products Company, in
recognition of the valuable and loyal services of said
employees, attorneys and experts to said Universal Oil
Products Company. Payments ranged in amount from
$100,000 to $500. Some of the recipients had been out of
the employ of the Universal company for many years; and
one of them was the sister of an employee killed in an
explosion about the year 1919.
At the meeting of the former stockholders of Universal, the former president of that company, then president of the Unopco corporation, said that they had reason
to congratulate themselves on their great good fortune
in the Universal company, which started with nothing
and had been built up in a phenomenal way; that they
had profited largely; that during the years when they
were struggling and moving forward they had had the
loyal support of a number of employees, and he thought
it would be a nice and generous thing to show their appreciation by remembering them in the form of a gift
or honorarium. All of the stockholders acquiesced, with
the result "that it was understood that we would come
forward and make these presents or gifts to the employees
that were to be slated for it." The matter had theretofore never been discussed among the old stockholders;
and this was the first time it had been brought up for
consideration. None of the recipients had ever been
employed by Unopco or by any of the former stockholders of the Universal.- The parties stipulated that
neither the Universal company nor the United "was
under any legal or other obligation to pay said employees .
.
any additional . . . compensation"
other than that which they were paid by the Universal

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

company*; and that neither Unopco nor any of its stockholders, nor any of the stockholders of Universal, was
at any time under any legal or other obligation to pay
any of said employees, attorneys or experts, including
petitioner, any salary, compensation or consideration of
any kind.
It was further stipulated-"said payments were not
made or intended to be made by said Unopco Corporation or any of its stockholders as payment or compensation for any services rendered or to be rendered or for
any consideration given or to be given by any of said
employees, attorneys or experts to said Unopco Corporation or to any of its stockholders." None of the three
corporations or their stockholders ever made or claimed
any deduction for federal income-tax purposes in respect
of the payments made to the petitioner and the others.
Payments were charged, in January, 1931, not to expense
but to surplus account on the books of the Unopco company.
The distribution was made to petitioner and the other
employees, attorneys and experts by checks, delivered
either personally or by mail; and in each instance with
the accompanying statement that the moneys represented by such checks were given at the instance of the
stockholders of the Unopco Corporation as a gift and
gratuity, and were, therefore, not subject to income tax
on the part of the recipients.
The Board of Tax Appeals concluded that, from a
careful consideration of all the evidence, "the payments
made by Unopco to the petitioners and others were additional compensation in consideration of services rendered
to Universal and were not tax-free gifts." This, as we re* The reference to additional compensation paid by the Universal
company probably refers to a "bonus," which was clearly compensation, paid by that company to its various employees, some 400
in number, in 1930.

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Opinion of the Court.

cently have pointed out, is "a conclusion of law or at least
a determination of a mixed question of law and fact.
It is to be distinguished from findings of primary, evidentiary or circumstantial facts. It is subject to judicial
review and, on such review, the court may substitute its
judgment for that of the board." Helvering v. Tex-Penn
Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, 491; Helvering v. Rankin, 295
U. S.123, 131. If the conclusion of the board be regarded
as a determination of a mixed question of law and fact,
it has, as we shall presently show, no support in the primary and evidentiary facts. The ultimate determination, therefore, should be overturned, under the doctrine
of Helvering v. Rankin, supra, as a matter of law.
The statutory provisions involved are very plain and
direct. Section 22 (a) of the applicable revenue Act
(45 Stat. 791) provides that "gross income," among
other things, includes "compensation for personal service,
of whatever kind and in whatever form paid." Subdivision (b) (3), immediately following, provides that "the
value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise or
inheritance" shall not be included in gross income and
shall be exempt from taxation under the income-tax
title.
The court below thought that payments such as are
here involved "may be at once 'gifts' under ยง 22, subdivision (b) (3) and 'compensation for personal service'
under subdivision (a)." Such a view of the statute is
inadmissible and confusing. The statute definitely distinguishes between compensation on the one hand and
gifts on the other hand, the former being taxable and
the latter free from taxation. The two terms are, and
were meant to be, mutually exclusive; and a bestowal
of money cannot, under the statute, be both a gift and
a payment of compensation. The court below went on
to say that decisions like Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner. 279 U. S.716, proved that payments could be

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

both gifts and compensation for personal services. The
most casual reading of that case shows that it is authority
for no such doctrine. There, an employer had paid the
income tax assessed upon the salary of an employee. The
employee had entered upon the discharge of his duties
for the year in question under an express agreement to
that effect. Quite evidently the phyment, so agreed upon
in advance, was in consideration of services to be rendered and in no sense a gift. It was a part of the employee's compensation; and the court so held. The idea
that it could be a gift in any sense was definitely rejected. We said (p. 730), "Nor can it be argued that
the payment of the tax in No. 130 was a gift. The payment for services, even though entirely voluntary, was
nevertheless compensation within the statute."
If the sum of money under consideration was a gift
and not compensation, it is exempt from taxation and
cannot be made taxable by resort to any form of subclassification. If it be in fact a gift, that is an end of
the matter; and inquiry whether it is a gift of one sort
,or another is irrelevant. This is necessarily true, for
since all gifts are made non-taxable, there can be no such
thing under the statute as a taxable gift. A claim that
it is a gift presents the sole and simple question whether
its designation as such is genuine or fictitious-that is to
say, whether, though called a gift, it is in reality compensation. To determine that question we turn to the facts,
which we have already detailed.
From these we learn that the recipients of the bounty
here in question never were employees of the Unopco
company, or of any of its stockholders. The Universal
company, in whose employ some of the recipients then
were, was at the time in no way connected with the
Unopco company or any of its stockholders. Some of
the recipients had not been in the employ even of the
Universal company for many years, and one of them

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Opinion of the Court

never had been an employee. Neither the Unopco company nor any one else was under any obligation, legal or
otherwise, to pay any of the recipients, including petitioner, any salary, compensation or consideration of any
kind. Such is the express stipulation of the parties. And
most significant is the further stipulated fact that the
disbvirsements were not made or intended to be made for
any services rendered or to be rendered or for any consideration given or to be given by any of said employees,
attorneys or experts to said Unopco corporation or to any
of its stockholders. If the disbursements had been made
by the Universal company, or by stockholders of that
company still interested in its success and in the maintenance of the good will and loyalty of its employees,
there might be ground for the inference that they were
payments of additional compensation. Compare Noel v.
Parrott, 15 F. (2d) 669. But such an inference, even
upon one of these suppositions, well might strain the realities in the light of the foregoing facts. However that
may be, the disbursements here were authorized and the
burden borne by persons who were then strangers to the
Universal company and its employees, under no obligation, legal or otherwise, to that company or to any of its
present or former employees. There is entirely lacking
the constraining force of any moral or legal duty as well
as the incentive of anticipated benefit of any kind beyond the satisfaction which flows from the performance of
a generous act. The intent is shown by the appeal made
at the stockholders' meeting to the effect that it would
be a nice and generous thing for these former stockholders of the Universal to -how their appreciation of the
past loyalty of that company's employees by remembering them in the form of a "gift or honorarium," and by
the common understanding then reached that the stockholders would make the suggested "presents or gifts" to
these employees. Quite evidently, none of these stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

holders had the slightest notion that a payment of compensation was to be made.
In sum, then, the case comes to this: The stockholders
of the Unopco, having at the time no connection with the
Universal company, but rejoicing in ihe fqct of their own
great good fortune, and mindful of the former loyal support of a number of employees of the Universal company,
and desiring to remember them "in the form of a gift
or honorarium," resolved to make through the Unopco
company the distribution in question. In doing so, they
were moved, as Judge Swan said in his dissenting opinion below, to an act of "spontaneous generosity." We
agree with this dissenting opinion of Judge Swan, and
the dissenting opinion of Judge Morton in Walker v.
Commissioner, supra, as stating the correct view of the
matter.
The only facts which even seem to militate against
this view are (1) that the Unopco stockholders had benefited by the former services of the recipients; (2) that
the stockholders at their meeting described the payment
as a gift or "honorarium"; and (3) that the resolutions
authorized the payment as a "bonus . . . in recognition
of the valuable and loyal services" of the employees, etc.
1. Because the Unopco stockholders had benefited by
the past services of the recipients, it by no means follows
that the distribution in question was not a gratuity. It
nowhere appears in the record that full compensation
had not been made for these services. There would seem
to be a natural inference to the contrary; and the inference is made determinate by the stipulated fact that
no one was under any obligation, legal or otherwise (and
this would include a moral obligation, however slight)
"to pay any additional compensation." There is no
ground for saying that the benefit received and the compensation then paid for it were not equivalents.
2. It is said that the word "honorarium" always denotes a compensatory payment. Without agreeing to this

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Opinion of the Court.

broad generalization, it is enough to say that the word
is not here used by itself, but coupled with the word
"gift" in the phrase "gift or honorarium." Presumptively, the user of the phrase must have known that the
word "gift" did not include a compensatory payment, and
it is hardly to be supposed that he would consciously
nullify that word by the immediate use of another meaning the opposite. The phrase was used in an informal
speech at the stockholders' meeting made by the president of the Unopco company. The whole tone of the
meeting indicates that the intention was to make gifts
in recognition of, not payments for, former services. The
conclusion in which the stockholders acquiesced was that
they would come forward and make these "presents or
gifts" to the employees. In the light of all the circumstances, the absence of moral or other obligation and of
any expectation of future benefit, it is reasonable to conclude that the word "honorarium," if the court below
correctly defined it, was loosely and inaccurately used.
3. The resolutions, which employ the word "bonus,"
were adopted to carry into effect the will of the stockholders expressed at their meeting. What occurred at
that meeting, as we have already said, indicated their
clear intention to make gifts. And since intention must
govern, we must consider the word used in the light of
the intention. A similar question was before the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Levey v. Helvering, 62 App. D. C. 354; 68 F. (2d) 401. There, the
corporate resolution characterized the payments to be
made to reimburse certain officers for income taxes paid
on salaries as "gifts." But the court held this characterization did not settle the matter. It reviewed the facts and
reached the conclusion that in the light of them what was
intended was not a gift but a bonus, and decided the case
in accordance with that view. In other words, the thing
that was decided upon and intended, in that case as in

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Dissenting Opinion.

302 U. S.

this case, was misdescribed in the resolutions to carry the
decision and intention into effect. In Rogers v. Hill, 289
U. S. 582, 591-592, we held, following the dissenting opinion in the court below, that a bonus payment having no
relation to the value of services for which it is given is in
reality a gift in part. Certainly, where all the facts and
circumstances in the case, including the express stipulation of the parties, clearly show the making and the intent
to make a gift, it cannot be converted into a payment for
services by inaccurately describing it, in the consummating resolutions, as a bonus.
Some stress is laid on the recital to the effect that the
bounty is bestowed in recognition of past loyal services.
But this recital amounts to nothing more than the acknowledgment of an historic fact as a reason for making
the gifts. A gift is none the less a gift because inspired
by gratitude for the past faithful service of the recipient.
Compare Hobart's Admr. v. Vail, 80 Vt. 152; 66 Atl.
820.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE, MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, and MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.

A payment received as compensation for services is
taxable as income, though made without consideration,
aad hence for many purposes a gift. Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716, 730. To hold, as the
prevailing opinion seems to do, that every payment which
in any aspect is a gift is perforce not compensation, and
hence relieved of any tax, is to work havoc with the law.
A large body of decisions, whose provenance is Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, would be annulled by
such a test. See e. g. Weagant v. Bowers, 57 F. (2d)
679; Fisher v. Commissioner, 59 F. (2d) 192; Bass v.

Hawley, 62 F. (2d) 721; United States v. McCormick,
67 F. (2d) 867; Botchford v. Commissioner, 81 F. (2d)

BOGARDUS v. COMMISSIONER.
34

Dissenting Opinion.

914; Schumacher v. United States, 55 F. (2d) 1007. Cf.
Lucas v. Ox Fibre Brush Co., 281 U. S. 115. Their teaching makes it plain that the categories of "gift" and
"compensation" are not always mutually exclusive, but
at times can overlap. What controls is not the presence
or absence of consideration. What controls is the intention with which payment, however voluntary, has been
made. Has it been made with the intention that services
rendered in the past shall be requited more completely,
though full acquittance has been given? If so, it bears
a tax. Has it been made to show good will, esteem, or
kindliness toward persons who happen to have served,
but who are paid without thought to make requital for
the service? If so, it is exempt.
We think there was a question of fact whether payment to this petitioner was made with one intention or
the other. A finding either in his favor or against him
would have had a fair basis in the evidence. It was for
the triers of the facts to seek among competing aims or
motives the ones that dominated conduct. Perhaps, if
such a function had been ours, we would have drawn
the inference favoring a gift. That is not enough. If
there was opportunity for opposing inferences, the judgment of the Board controls. Elmhurst Cemetery Co. v.
Commissioner, 300 U. S. 37; Helvering v. Tex-Penn Oil
Co., 300 U. S. 481.

