BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER.
Syllabus.

BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 55.

Argued December 9, 10, 1937.-Decided January 10, 1938.

1. The Revenue Act of 1928 provides that, in the case of a citizen
of the United States, the income tax imposed by the Act shall be
credited (up to a specified limit) with the amount of any "income
taxes paid" during the taxable year to any foreign country. Held
that the meaning of the phrase "income taxes paid" is to be found
in our own revenue laws rather than in the statutes and decisions
of the foreign country to which deductible tax payments are said
to have been made. P. 578.
2. Under the British law, as found in this case, a corporation pays the
"standard" (normal) income tax on its profits, computed at the
rate in force when it received them. When the profits are divided,
the shareholder is not liable to any tax in respect of his dividend
unless his income is such as to subject him to a surtax. In paying a dividend, the corporation has express permission to deduct
"the tax appropriate thereto" and is directed to certify to the
shareholder the gross amount of the dividend, the rate and amount
of the income tax "appropriate" to the gross amount, and the net
amount actually paid the shareholder. The tax "appropriate" to
the dividend is computed by applying the standard rate for the
year of distribution to the value of the money or property distributed and will equal the tax at the standard rate paid by the
corporation if, and only if, that rate was the same for the year in
which the profits were earned as in the year when they are distributed. The shareholder's surtax is computed upon the gross
dividend,-the dividend that he actually receives plus the tax
deducted by the corporation. If his income is exempt, or less than
the minimum subject to surtax, refund is made accordingly. The
purpose of the certificate is to aid him in computing his surtax
and in securing the benefit of any refund. Held:
with No. 505, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, v. Elkins, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit.
*Together

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

(1) That (aside from any question of surtax) the amount so
certified as the tax "appropriate" to a dividend is not a tax paid
by the shareholder and can not be credited against his United States
income tax under Rev. Act 1928, § 131 (a), as a tax paid to a
foreign country. P. 579.
(2) -It is not deductible from his gross income under § 23 (c) (2)
of that Act, which allows deduction of income taxes imposed by
the authority of any foreign country. P. 583.
3. Departmental tax rulings not promulgated by the Secretary of
the Treasury, are of little aid in interpreting a tax statute. P. 582.
4. Where the meaning of a statute is plain, subsequent reenactment
does not adopt contrary administrative construction. Id.
5. The presumption that Congress, in reenacting a statute, can ascertain the course of administrative interpretation and, knowing its
own intent, will correct the administrative ruling if mistaken, can
not apply to rulings upon the intent of other legislative bodies.
Rulings of our taxing authorities upon the force and effect of a
tax law of a foreign country can not have any more binding effect
on courts than in the case of any determination of fact which
calls into operation the taxing statutes. P. 582.
86 F. (2d) 718, affirmed.
91 F. (2d) 973, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, pp. 664, 677, to review judgments of
two Circuit Courts of Appeals one of which reversed, while
the other affirmed, a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
33 B. T. A. 127, upholding deficiency assessments on income taxes.
Mr. Frank J. Wideman, with whom Messrs. Forrest

Hyde, William R. Spofford and Freeman J. Daniels were

on the brief, for petitioner in No. 55.
Mr. William R.

Spofford, with whom Mr. Schofield

Andrews was on the brief, for respondent in No. 505.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General

Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and F. E. Youngman were on the briefs, for
respondent in No. 55 and petitioner in No. 505.

BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER.
573

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Ward V. Tolbert and John L. McMaster, on behalf of F. W. Woolworth Co.; Mr. Bernhard Knollenberg,
on behalf of the National Cash Register Co.; Mr. Claude
R. Branch, on behalf of the United Shoe Machinery Corp.;
and Mr. Mitchell B. Carroll, all in support of the taxpayers; and by Mr. William H. Hotchkiss, on behalf of
the London & Lancashire Insurance Co., in support of the
Government.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In. their British income tax returns, stockholders in
British corporations are required to report as income, in
addition to the amount of dividends actually received,
amounts which reflect their respective proportions of the
tax paid by the corporation on its own profits. The principal question raised by these petitions is whether these
amounts constitute "income . . . taxes paid or accrued
during the taxable year to [a] foreign country" so as to
entitle the stockholders, if they are citizens of the United
States, to credits of those amounts upon their United
States income tax, by virtue of § 131 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1928. A further question is whether any of
the amounts not so available as a credit may be deducted
from gross income under § 23 (c) (2) of the Act for the
purpose of ascertaining the net in-ome subject to tax.
Petitioner in No. 55 and respondent in No. 505, hereafter called the taxpayers, received cash dividends during
the taxable years 1929 and 1931, respectively, on their
stock in three British corporations. Each of the corporations having itself paid or become liable to pay the British
tax on the profits thus distributed, no further exaction at
the "standard" (normal) rate was due the British government on account of the distribution from either the stock-

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

holders or the corporation. 1 Only in the case of individuals whose income exceeds a stated amount is, a surtax
levied. In these circumstances the corporations are directed to certify to shareholders, at the time of sending
out warrants for the dividends, the gross amount from

which the income tax "appropriate thereto" is deducted,
the rate and amount of the income tax appropriate to the
gross amount, and the net amount actually paid.2

The tax "appropriate" to the dividend is computed by
applying the standard rate for the year of distribution,
to the value of the money or other property distributed.'

The amount so computed will equal the tax paid at the

standard rate by the corporation on its profits if, but only
if, the tax rate is the same in the year when the profits
are earned as in the year when they are distributed.

One of the companies availed itself of the statutory
permission' to declare a gross dividend, from which it deducted the tax before actual distribution, certifying to the
'British Income Tax Act 1918, 8 and 9 Geo. V, c. 40, as amended
by § 38, Finance Act of 1927, 17 and 18 Geo. V, c. 10. General Rule
1 of the 1918 Act provides, "Every body of persons shall be chargeable to tax in like manner as any person is chargeable under the
provisions of this Act." By § 237 of the 1918 Act "body of persons"
includes "any company ... whether corporate or not corporate."
2 Section 33, Finance Act of 1924, 14 and 15 Geo. V, c. 21.
3 The Act of 1918 prescribes general rules for the assessment and
collection of taxes "on profits from property, trade or business." By
General Rule 20 it is provided that the tax is to be paid on the "full
amount" of the profit "before any dividend thereof is made in respect
of any share . . . and the body of persons paying such dividend
shall be entitled to deduct the tax appropriate thereto." The
tax "appropriate" to a dividend payment is the standard rate of tax
for the year in which the dividend is declared, regardless of the rate
at which the amount distributed was in fact taxed when it was
received by the company. Hamilton v. Commissioners of Inland
Revenue, 16 British Tax Cases, 213, 229, 234; Neumann v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, 18 British Tax Cases, 332, 359, 361.
4 General Rule 20, Income Tax of 1918.

BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER.
573

Opinion of the Court.

taxpayers that the dividend would be paid "less" income
tax. The other two companies declared the dividend in
the amount distributed to stockholders and certified that
it was "free of tax." The certificates of the latter did
not purport to show any deduction of tax from a gross
dividend, but did indicate the amount of the tax appropriate to the dividend and showed the same net return
to stockholders as if the tax had been deducted from a
computed gross dividend.
In their returns transmitted to the Department of Inland Revenue of the British government, the taxpayers
reported as income subject to surtax the amount of income taxes appropriate to their dividends, in addition to
the money actually received, and paid surtaxes on that
total sum. In their United States income tax returns
for those years, the taxpayers included in gross income
the entire sums so reported in the British returns. Up
to the limit set by § 131 (b), they claimed as credits
against the tax payable to the United States the amount
of British tax appropriate to the dividends as well as
the amount of surtax paid. A deduction from gross income was claimed under § 23 (c) (2) for the amount by
which the limit was exceeded.
Deficiency assessments of the taxpayers were brought
to the Board of Tax Appeals for review. There the issues were narrowed to the questions now before us,
whether the taxpayers, after adding to gross income the
amounts included in the British returns as taxes appropriate to the dividends received, were then entitled to
deduct those amounts from the tax as computed, to the
extent permitted by § 131 (b), and whether the excess
was a permissible deduction from gross income.
The board held that the sums in dispute should not
have been included in gross income, because they represented neither property received by the taxpayers nor
the discharge of any taxes owed by them to the British

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

government. It held further that § 131 (a) (1) of the
Revenue Act of 1928. which directs that the income tax
be credited with "the amount of any income . . . taxes
paid or accrued during the taxable year to any foreign
country . . ." is inapplicable because the United Kingdom fails to tax dividends at the normal rate, and hence
the taxes appropriate to dividends were paid by the corporations rather than the taxpayer stockholders.
In No. 55 the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirmed-the determination of the board, 86 F. (2d) 718,
since followed by that circuit in F. W. Woolworth Co. v.
United States, 91 F. (2d) 973, and the Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, in No. 505, reversed, 91 F. (2d)
534, following a decision of the Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit in United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. White,
89 F. (2d) 363. We granted certiorari to resolve this
conflict of decision, and because of the importance of the
question in the administration of the revenue laws.
At the outset it is to be observed that decision must
turn on the precise meaning of the words in the statute
which grants to the citizen taxpayer a credit for foreign
"income taxes paid." The power to tax and to grant
the credit resides in Congress, and it is the will of Congress which controls the application of the provisions for
credit. The expression of its will in legislation must be
taken to conform to its own criteria unless the statute,
by express language or necessary implication, makes the
meaning of the phrase "paid or accrued," and hence the
operation of the statute in which it occurs, depend upon
its characterization by the foreign statutes and by decisions under them. Cf. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
245 U. S. 292, 294; Weiss v. Weiner, 279 U. S. 333, 337;
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110.
Section 131 does not say that the meaning of its words
is to be determined by foreign taxing statutes and decisions, and there is nothing in its language to suggest that

BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER.
573

579

Opinion of the Court.

in allowing the credit for foreign tax payments, a shifting
standard was adopted by reference to foreign characterizations and classifications of tax legislation. The phrase
"income taxes paid," as used in our own revenue laws, has
for most practical purposes a well understood meaning
to be derived from an examination of the statutes which
provide for the laying and collection of income taxes. It
is that meaning which must be attributed to it as used in
§ 131.
Hence the board's finding, supported as it is by much
expert testimony, that "the stockholder receiving the dividend is regarded in the English income tax acts as having
paid 'by deduction or otherwise' the tax 'appropriate' to
the dividend" is not conclusive. At most it is but a factor to be considered in deciding whether the stockholder
pays the tax within the meaning of our own statute. That
must ultimately be determined by ascertaining from an
examination of the manner in which the British tax is
laid and collected what the stockholder has done in conformity to British law and whether it is the substantial
equivalent of payment of the tax as those terms are used
in our own statute.
We are here concerned only with the "standard" or normal tax. The scheme of the British legislation is to impose on corporate earnings only one standard tax, at the
source, and to avoid the "double" taxation of the corporate
income as it passes to the hands of its stockholders, except
as they are subject to surtax which the corporation does
not pay. The corporation pays the standard tax and
against it the remedies for non-payment run. It has been
intimated that the shareholder may be held to payment
of the tax in the event of the corporation's default, Hamilton v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, 16 British Tax
Cases, 213, 236, but the contrary view finds more support
in judicial opinion, id. at 230; Dalgety dc Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, 15 British Tax Cases, 216.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

238; Neumann v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, 18
British Tax Cases, 341, 345, 358, 362-363, 368, and was
adopted by the taxpayers' expert.
Although the corporation, in the United Kingdom as
here, pays the tax and is bound to pay it, the tax burden in
point of substance is passed on to the stockholders in the
same way that it is passed on under our own taxing acts
where the tax on the corporate income is charged as an expense before any part of the resulting net profit is distributed to stockholders. See Magill, Taxable Income, 24 et
seq. Whether the tax is deducted from gross profits before a dividend is declared, or after, when the deduction is
taken from the gross dividend, the net amount received by
the stockholder is the same. Under either system, if no
dividend is declared no tax is paid by the stockholder.' If
a dividend is declared it must be paid, however the deduction is made, from what is left after the corporation has
paid taxes upon its earnings. The differences in the two
methods of deduction are to be found only in the formal
bookkeeping data which, in the British system, are communicated to the stockholders, not for the purpose of laying or collecting the tax which the corporation has already
paid or must pay, but to aid the stockholders in computing their surtax and in securing the benefit of any refund
of the tax.
The stockholders' surtax is computed upon the gross dividend, the dividend which he actually receives plus the
tax deducted.' If the stockholder's income is exempt or
less than the minimum amount subject to the tax, refund
is made to him of the proportionate share of the tax paid
5 Cf. Dalgety & Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue,
15
British Tax Cases 216, 238; Neumann v. Commissioners of Inland
Revenue, 18 British Tax Cases 341, 345, 358, 362-363, 368.
6 Hamilton v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, 16 British Tax
Cases 213, 229, 234; Neumann v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue,
18 British Tax Cases 332, 345, 358-360, 361.

BIDDLE v. COMMISSIONER.
573

Opinion of the Court.

by the corporation.' It is upon these features of the British system that the taxpayers chiefly rely to support their
argument that the stockholder pays the tax. For these
limited purposes, which do not affect the assessment and
payment of the tax, it is true that the British acts treat
the stockholder as though he were the taxpayer. But with
respect to the surtax the stockholder pays it and the taxpayers here have received for its payment the credit which
our statute allows. Inclusion of the deducted amount in
the base on which surtax is calculated, together with the
provisions for refund of the tax to the stockholder who,
in any event, bears its economic burden, are logical recognitions of the British conception that the standard tax
paid by the corporation is passed on to the stockholders.
Our revenue laws give no recognition to that conception. Although the tax burden of the corporation is
passed on to its stockholders with substantially the same
results to them as under the British system, our statutes
take no account of that fact in establishing the rights and
obligations of taxpayers. Until recently they have not
laid a tax, except surtax, on dividends, but they have
never treated the stockholder for any purpose as paying
the tax collected from the corporation. Nor have they
treated as taxpayers those upon whom no legal duty to
pay the tax is laid. Measured by these standards our
statutes afford no scope for saying that the stockholder
of a British corporation pays the tax which is laid upon
and collected from the corporation, and no basis for a
decision that § 131 extends to such a stockholder a credit
for a tax paid by the corporation-a privilege not granted
to stockholders in our own corporations. It can hardly
be said that a tax paid to the Crown by a British corporation subject to United States income tax is not a tax paid
7 Income Tax Act of 1918, §§ 29 (1), 55 (1), 211 (1) as amended
by Finance Act, 1920, § 27 (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

within the meaning of § 23 (c) (2), of the 1928 Act, which
allows a deduction from gross income for taxes paid to a
foreign country, cf. Welch v. St. Helens Petroleum Co.,
78 F. (2d) 631, or that its stockholders could take credit
under § 131 for their share of the tax on the theory that
they also had paid it.
The taxpayers urge that departmental rulings sustaining credits or deductions by stockholders of British corporations, S. M. 3040, IV-1 C. B. 198; S. M. 5363, V-1
C. B. 89; I. T. 2401, VII-1 C. B. 126; G. C. M. 3179,
VII-1 C. B. 240, have taken on the force of law by virtue
of the reenactment of the deduction and credit provisions
carried into §§ 23 and 131 of the 1928 Act. Laying aside
the fact that departmental rulings not promulgated by the
Secretary are of little aid in interpreting a tax statute,
Helvering v. New York Trust Co., 292 U. S. 455, 467-468,
these rulings rest for their conclusions as to the application of § 131 upon their interpretation of the nature and
effect of the British legislation. The presumption that
Congress, in reenacting a statute, can ascertain the course
of administrative interpretation and, knowing its own
intent, will correct the administrative ruling if mistaken,
cannot apply to rulings upon the intent of other legislative bodies. So far as the rulings with which we are now
concerned sought to state the force and effect of British
law they can have no more binding effect on courts than
in the case of any determination of fact which calls into
operation the taxing statutes. So far as they have construed our own statute as adopting the British characterization, they plainly misinterpret an unambiguous provision. Where the law is pl~i-n the subsequent reenactment
of a statute does not constitute adoption of its administrative construction. Iselin v. United States, 270 U. S. 245;
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 740;
Helvering v. New York Trust Co., supra.

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

573

What we have said is decisive of the second question,
whether any of the amounts not available for credit under
§ 131 may be deducted from gross income for the purpose
of arriving at taxable net income. By § 23 (c) (2) of
the 1928 Act the deductions of "income . . . taxes imposed by the authority of any foreign country" are limited to taxes paid or accrued. Since we have held that
the taxpayer has not paid or become subject to the foreign
tax here in question, the section by its terms is inapplicable.
No. 55, affirmed.
No. 505, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are of opinion that the applicable rule was correctly stated by the lower court in No.
505, Elkins v. Commissioner, 91 F. (2d) 534, and by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in United
Shoe Machinery Corp. v. White, 89 F. (2d) 363, and that
the challenged judgment in No. 55 should be reversed
and that in No. 505 affirmed.
WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37.

Argued November 16, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. In the last clause of Const., Art. I, § 7, par. 2, which provides:
"If any Bill shall not be returncl by the President within ten
Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to
him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed
it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return,
in which Case it shall not be a Law," the words "the Congress"
refer to the entire legislative body consisting of both Houses.
P. 587.
2. The Constitution neither defines what shall constitute a return of
a bill by the President, nor denies the use of appropriate agencies
in effecting a return. P. 589.

