OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

state Act which also lie outside the bounds of the federal
action thus far taken and as to which uniformity of regulation is not needed. That question cannot be satisfactorily determined on this record and must also remain
for decision as it may be presented in the future in connection with some particular action taken by the state
authorities. Our conclusion is that the state Act has a
permissible field of operation in relation to respondents'
tugs and that the state court was in error in holding the
Act completely unenforceable in deference to federal law.
The judgment of the state court to that effect is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
WHITE, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. ARONSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 20. Argued October 20, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. The term "games," as used in ยง 609, of the Revenue Act of 1932,
does not include jigsaw picture puzzles. P. 17.
This section, headed "Tax on Sporting Goods," imposes a manufacturer's sales tax on a wide variety of articles used in sports
and games, named specifically, and generally on "games and parts
of games," "and all similar articles commonly or commercially
known as sporting goods."
2. It is to be presumed that Congress, in enacting ยง 609 of the
Revenue Act of 1932, was aware that, under earlier like provisions, no tax assessments were laid on sales of puzzles, and that
Congress knew that in litigation over the question, there was
proof that in commercial usage jigsaw puzzles were never regarded
as games but a recognized distinction was made between games
and puzzles. P. 20.
3. Where there is a reasonable doubt as to the meaning of a taxing
act it should be construed most favorably to the taxpayer. Id.
87 F. (2d) 272, affirmed.

WHITE v. ARONSON.
16

17

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 675, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the District Court, 13 F. Supp. 913, in
an action, tried without a jury, to recover money paid
as taxes.
Mr. Paul A. Freund,pro hac vice, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for the petitioner.
The argument for respondent was opened by Mr. Israel
Gorovitz and closed by Mr. Samuel Gottlieb.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Respondent, Aronson, trustee in bankruptcy of The
Viking Manufacturing Company, Inc., brought suit in the
United States District Court for Massachusetts to recover $37,021.63 exacted of the bankrupt by the Collector, under color of ยง 609 Revenue Act 1932,' c. 209, 47
Stat. 264, on account o ijigsaw picture puzzles manufactured and sold from June 21, 1932, to May 1, 1933.
The puzzles were made by cutting selected pictures
backed up by rigid cardboard into from 162 to 500 separate pieces. These were sold to those who found diversion or amusement in putting them together so as to
reproduce the original picture.
Obviously the word "games" in the statute was intended
to designate instrumentalities used in playing them.
The Collector maintained that the effort properly to
arrange the pieces was for amusement or diversion and
amounted to a game, within the appropriate definition of
the word.2 Accordingly, he said, these instrumentalities
were taxable.
I Revenue Act 1932. Sec. 609. Tax on Sporting Goods.
"There is hereby imposed upon the following articles, sold by
the manufacturer, producer, or importer, a tax equivalent to 10

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

On the other hand, respondent insisted that the word
"games" refers to contests, physical or mental, conducted
according to set rules, undertaken for amusement or recreation or for winning a stake, requiring the participation
of two or more persons; ' also that the sundry pieces were
parts of a puzzle, a contrivance designed for testing ingenuity-something not within the scope of the statute.'
The trial judge, having heard the cause upon pleadings and evidence without a jury, sustained the Collector's
defense. The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded otherwise and directed judgment for the trustee. It said"The section [609] is headed 'Tax on Sporting Goods.'
The articles or instrumentalities there specifically named
are sporting goods whether they are used in connection
with games or in some recreation or diversion other than
a game. But the larger portion of the articles specifically named are all used in games of contest between two
per centum of the price for which so sold: Tennis rackets, tennis
racket frames and strings, nets, racket covers and presses, skates,
snowshoes, skis, toboggans, canoe paddles, polo mallets, baseball
bats, gloves, masks, protectors, shoes and uniforms, football helmets,
harness and uniforms, basket ball goals and uniforms, golf bags and
clubs, lacrosse sticks, balls of all kinds, including baseballs, footballs,
tennis, golf, lacrosse, billiard and pool balls, fishing rods and reels,
billiard and pool tables, chess and checker boards and pieces, dice,
games and parts of games (except playing cards and children's toys
and games); and all similar articles commonly or commercially known
as sporting goods."
2Webster's New International Dictionary, 2d ed., gives the word
"game" 17 definitions. "2 a An amusement or diversion; as, makebelieve is a children's game; formerly," specif., amorous play, 'Daughters of the game.' Shak." "4. A contest, physical or mental, conducted according to set rules, and undertaken for amusement or
recreation, or for winning a stake
*
8 "Puzzle. 2. Something which perplexes or embarrasses; a difficult
problem or question; an enigma; hence, a toy, contrivance, question, or problem designed for testing ingenuity; as, a crossword
puzzle." Webster's New International Dictionary, 2d ed.

WHITE v. ARONSON.
16

Opinion of the Court.

or more persons, and the question of construction is
whether the articles or instrumentalities intended to be
covered by the phrase 'games and parts of games' mean
articles or instrumentalities used in games of contest like
the specific articles previously named in the section, which
are used in games of tennis, polo, baseball, etc., all of
which involve a contest ...
"Furthermore the particular article here sought to be
taxed is a puzzle. A puzzle is defined as 'something which
perplexes or embarrasses; a difficult problem or question;
hence a toy, contrivance, question or problem designed
for testing ingenuity; as a cross word puzzle.' Webster's
New International Dictionary. A jigsaw picture puzzle
comes squarely within this definition-'a contrivance
. . . designed for testing ingenuity.' None of the articles specifically named in the statute and used in games
is a contrivance designed for testing ingenuity. They are
designed for use in ames of contest, while a jigsaw
puzzle is not."
Section 600 (f), c. 63, 40 Stat. 316, Revenue Act 1917,
and ยง 900 (5), c.18, 40 Stat. 1122, Revenue Act 1918,
(repealed in 1921) laid a tax upon tennis rackets, golf
clubs, baseball bats, etc., . . . "chess and checker boards
and pieces, dice, games and parts of games." Jigsaw picture puzzles were then well known articles of commerce.
They go back at 'leagt to the first part of the last century-perhaps much farther. The same words "games
or parts of games" appear again in the like section-609Revenue Act 1932.
The court below pointed out that"A jig saw puzzle was never taxed under Section 900
(5) of the Act of 1918. It was not taxed until after the
passage of Section 609 of the Revenue Act of 1932, when
the Government .attempted to tax it as a game. The
Act of 1932 became effective June 6, 1932. On August
26, 1932, the Commissioner issued a ruling stating that

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

jig saw or die cut picture puzzles were not taxable. On
November 14, 1932, he issued a ruling that they were
taxable. On February 7, 1933, he ruled that after February 7, 1933, they were taxable if they contained more
than fifty pieces. And on April 20, 1933, he ruled that
they were taxable after June 21, 1932, if they contained
more than fifty pieces."
Ample evidence disclosed that in commercial usage jigsaw picture puzzles were never regarded as games; also
that the trade recognized a definite distinction between
puzzles and games. We must assume that Congress had
knowledge of these things; also knew that jigsaw picture
puzzles were not assessed for taxes under the Acts of
1917 and 1918; and, further, was not unmindful of the
uncertainties concerning the meaning of "game" disclosed by Baltimore Talking Board Co. v. Miles, 280 Fed.
658, and Mills Novelty Co. v. United States, 50 F. (2d)
476.
The claim for the taxpayer here does not rest upon an
exception to a general rule but upon construction of general language found in the Act.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rightly concluded that"The words 'games and parts of games' bring into the list
of taxables only such other articles as are used in games
of contest, the same as those particularly named are and
with which they are closely associated."
Certainly we cannot say that this construction was
clearly erroneous. Other judges had accepted it. Nor
can we affirm that the statute as framed gave adequate
notice to the bankrupt that its puzzles were to be taxed.
Where there is a reasonable doubt as to the meaning
of a taxing Act it should be construed most favorably
to the taxpayer. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151. "Tax
laws, like all other laws, are made to be obeyed. They

WHITE v. ARONSON.
Opinion of the Court.

16

should therefore be intelligible to those who are expected
to obey them." Philadelphia Storage Battery Co. v.
Lederer, 21 F. (2d) 320, 321, 322.
Counsel for the Collector maintain that Baltimore
Talking Board Co. v. Miles (1922), supra, the "Ouija
Board" case, and Mills Novelty Co. v. United States,
(1931), supra, "Coin Operated Gambling Machine" case,
are in"
conflict with the ruling under review.
These causes involved the Act of 1918 and in both the
judges expressed sharply opposing views. Of course, the
general language of the opinions must be read in connection with the facts.
The ouija board is wholly different from the puzzle
here under consideration; nothing indicates that it was
commonly regarded by the trade as a puzzle; and in an
application for a patent it had once been described as a
game. If the opinion construes the statute as embracing
all instrumentalities, not necessary for comfort, whose
chief use is to afford amusement and diversion, it is obviously too broad. Knitting for diversion is not a "game";
nor is horseback riding.
The coin-operated gambling machine has no resemblance to a jigsaw picture puzzle and what was said concerning it is not helpful in the problem now before us.
Both of these causes were decided prior to the Act of
1932 in which the words of the 1918 Act were repeated
notwithstanding the disclosed uncertainties concerning
their meaning and with knowledge of the fact that theretofore puzzles had not been assessed for taxation under
them.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE

in the result.

CAnozo concur

