OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

mine what the interests of justice required and it lost
none of that power by reason of the fact that the question was not brought to its attention until the court had
heard argument and reached a decision upon the assumption that the bill of exceptions was properly before it.
As no question appears to have been raised as to the propriety or sufficiency of the bill of exceptions, apart from
the time of settlement and filing, it would be a mere idle
form to extend the time and return the bill of exceptions
for resettlement accordingly, which the Court of Appeals has power to do, and thus to have the same bill
of exceptions again presented and the case heard anew
upon the merits, and the court may, in its sound discretion refuse to strike the bill of exceptions and approve
the settlement and filing heretofore had.
Question No. 1 is answered "No". Question No. 2 is
answered "No". Question No. 3 is not answered.
It is so ordered.
FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. PINK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued November 17, 18, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.
1. Standard form of reinsurance contract, providing for insurance
i"against loss," and requiring reinsurer to pay its share of any loss
under the original insurance, and of costs &c. "upon proof of the
payment of such items by the reinsured, and upon delivery to the
reinsurer of copies of all essential documents concerned with such
loss and costs and the payment thereof,"-held to make payment
of loss by reinsured a condition precedent to reinsurer's liability.
Allemannia Insurance Co. v. Fireman's Insurance Co., 209 U. S. 326,
distinguished. P. 227.
2. Liability under a contract of reinsurance must be determined-upon
consideration of the words employed, read in the light of attending
circumstances. P. 229.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. PINK.
224

225

Opinion of the Court.

3. Assumption that change of language in a form of reinsurance contract was intended to impose different liability from that imposed
by an earlier form as construed by a decision of this Court. P. 230.
88 F. (2d) 630, reversed.

CERTIoRAR, 301 U.. S. 678, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court, 15 F. Supp. 715, in favor
of the present respondent in an action against the petitioner upon a contract of reinsurance.
Mr. Harold L. Smith, with whom Messrs. Ralph S.
Harris and E. Myron Bull were on -he brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Irvin Waldman, with whom Mr. Alfred C. Bennett
was on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Ernest L. Wilkinson and
Allen C. Rowe filed a brief on behalf of the Surety Association of America, as amicus curiae, urging issuance of
the writ of certiorari.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1930 Southern Surety Company, a New York corporation, issued to John DeMartini Co., Inc., a fidelity
insurance bond and on the same day reinsured half of
the risk with petitioner, Fidelity & Deposit Company of
Maryland. The DeMartini Co. claimed a loss. While
this was in course of adjustment (March, 1932), a New
York court adjudged the Southern Company insolvent
and dissolved it. Respondent Pink, Superintendent of
Insurance for New York, took possession of its property
and entered upon liquidation of the business.
He allowed but did not discharge the DeMartini Company's claim. Thereupon he demanded that petitioner
pay half of it. This having been refused he instituted

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

these proceedings in the United States District Court to
recover upon the reinsurance contract. Judgment went
in his favor; the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed; the
matter is here upon certiorari. The facts are not in
dispute.
The contract between the two insurance companies
incorporated the "standard form of reinsurance agreement" adopted by the Surety Association of America in
1930. This form provides"In consideration of the premium payable under sechereinafter called the Reintion 1 hereof ............
surer, does hereby reinsure Fidelity & Deposit Company
of Maryland, hereinafter called the Reinsured, under
, together with all riders atbond numbered ............
tached thereto, hereinafter called the Bond, issued by the
Dollars, in
Reinsured in the penalty of ............
(obligee), and in behalf of
favor of ............
hereinafter called the Principal, against
............
loss thereunder and against costs and expenses, as hereinafter defined, and interest. A copy of the bond is or
may be attached hereto, and is hereby made a part of
this agreement.
"The foregoing agreement is subject to the following
conditions and provisions: . . ." (These appear in fifteen
succeeding sections.)
Section 4, copied in the margin,1 contains the following,
among other things"The Reinsurer's proportionate share of a loss under
the bond, of costs and expenses as hereinafter defined,
and of interest, shall be paid to the Reinsured upon proof
of the payment of such items by the Reinsured, and upon
delivery to the Reinsurer of copies of all essential documents concerned with such loss and costs and the payment thereof. The Reinsured may, however, give the
Reinsurer written notice of its intention to pay the loss
on a certain date, and may require the Reinsurer to have

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. PINK.
224

227

Opinion of the Court.

its share of such loss in the hands of the Reinsured by
such date: provided, however, that the Reinsurer in any
event shall have a period of forty-eight hours, after the
receipt of such written notice from the Reinsured, to mail
or otherwise despatch its payment; and provided further
that in any such case the Reinsurer, if it desires to do
so, lpay pay its shar of the loss by means of a check
drawn in favor of the obligee of the bond."
Petitioner's counsel maintain that the standard form
provides for insurance only "against loss"; that the reinsurer thereunder becomes liable only upon "proof of the
payment of such items by the Reinsured, and upon delivery to the Reinsurer of copies of all essential documents
concerned with such loss and costs and the -payment
thereof"; that payment by the reinsured is a condition
precedent to the reinsurer's liability. Sundry provisions
in the form, indicated below, they say lend support to
this view.'
. . . against loss."
Section 3"3. Unless otherwise expressly agreed, the amount of liability retained by the Reinsured at its own risk both when this agreement is
made and at the time of any breach of the bond resulting in a claim
thereunder shall be:
"(a) If the bond be other than a depository bond or blanket bond,
in no event less than the amount ceded hereunder, such retention to
be carried under the bond; or
"(b) If the bond be a depository bond, in no event less than the
amount ceded hereunder plus the amount of all reinsurance ceded by
the Reinsured to the Reinsurer under any other depository bond or
bonds issued by the Reinsurer in behalf of the Principal and effective
at the time of any breach of the bond resulting in a claim thereunder,
such retention to be carried under any depository bond or bonds
issued and/or any depository reinsurance or reinsurances carried by
the Reinsured in behalf of the Principal; or
"(c) If the bond be a blanket bond, in no event less than the
amount ceded hereunder plus the amount of all reinsurance ceded
by the Reinsured to the Reinsurer under any other blanket bond or
bonds issued by the Reinsured in favor of the same insured and ef-

1Introduction-"Does hereby reinsure

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Respondent maintains that proof of payment is not a
prerequisite to recovery.
Both courts below thought that Allemannia Insurance
Co. v. Fireman's Insurance Co., 209 U. S. 326 (1908),
fective at the time of any breach of the bond resulting in a claim
thereunder; such retention to be carried under any blanket bond or
bonds issued and/or any blanket bond reinsurance or reinsurances
carried by the Reinsured in favor of the same insured. The actual
retained liability of the Reinsured as aforesaid shall not be more
remote than that ceded to the Reinsurer, whether it be primary or
excess or partly primary and partly excess ..
Section 4"The Reinsurer's proportionate share of a loss under the bond, of
costs and expenses as hereinafter defined, and of -iterest, shall be
paid to the Reinsured upon proof of the payment of such items by
the Reinsured, and upon delivery to the Reinsurer of copies of all
essential documents concerned with such loss and costs and the
payment thereof. The Reinsured may, however, give the Reinsurer
written notice of its intention to pay the loss on a certain date,
and may require the Reinsurer to have its share of such loss in the
hands of the Reinsured by such date: provided, however, that the
Reinsurer in any event shall have a period of forty-eight hours, after
the receipt of such written notice from the Reinsured, to mail or
otherwise despatch its payment; and provided further that in any
such case the Reinsurer, if it desires to do so, may pay its share
of the loss by means of a check drawn in favor of the obligee of the
bond.
"The Reinsurer may inspect the original documents relating to
claims and losses under the bond in the possession of the Reinsured.
"The term costs and expenses shall mean all expenditures made in
investigating and settling any claim under the bond; all expenditures
made in investigating, settling, or defending, or attempting to defend,
any suit or proceeding based upon the bond; all expenditures made
in procuring or attempting to procure restitution or recovery on
account of any loss, costs, or expenses; and all expenditures made in
prosecuting or attempting to prosecute any person causing a loss under
the bond."
Section 10"The Reinsurer shall be entitled to share with the Reinsured, in
the proportion defined in section 2 hereof, any collateral security or
indemnity held by the Reinsured..."

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. PINK.
224

229

Opinion of the Court.

required approval of respondent's contention. This was
error. The defense was well taken and should have been
sustained.
We do not question the general rules concerning liability of reinsurers announced in the Allemannia case;
but the liability under any written contract must be
determined upon consideration of the words employed,
read in the light of attending circumstances.
Here the two insurance companies stood upon an equal
footing; both were experts in the field. The language
used differs materially from that found in the policy of
the Allemannia Company. There is no ambiguity and
no circumstance requires disregard of the ordinary meaning of the language.
The 1930 form provides, "The Reinsurer does hereby
reinsure against loss." The Allemannia policy declared
the company "hereby agrees to reinsure."
Petitioner's policy says---"The reinsurer's proportionate share of the loss . . . shall be paid to the reinsured
upon proof of the payment of such items by the reinsured
and upon the delivery to the reinsurer of copies of all
essential documents concerned with such loss and the payment thereof." The Allemannia policy contained no
equivalent terms. It provided-"Upon receiving notice
of any loss or claim under any contract hereunder reinsured, the said reinsured company shall promptly advise
the said Allemannia Fire Insurance Company, at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, of the same, and of the date and
probable amount of loss or damage, and after said reinsured company shall have adjusted, accepted proofs of, or
paid such loss or damage, it shall forward to the said Allemannia Fire Insurance Company, at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, a proof of its loss and claim against this company upon blanks furnished for that purpose by said
Firemen's Insurance Company, together with a copy
of the original proofs and claim under its contract re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

insured, and a copy of the original receipt taken upon the
payment of such loss; . . ."
As the standard form of 1930 was adopted twenty years
after the Allemannia case it fairly may be assumed that
the dissimilar language employed was intended to impose
liability different from the one there found to exist.
The judgment below muot be reversed. The cause will
be remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.
ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 281.

Argued November 8, 9, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

An earlier consent decree against a corporation in a suit by the
Government under the antitrust laws'held not inconsistent with
prosecution of a later suit under those laws in another district
differing substantially in subject matter, parties, issues and relief
sought. P. 232.
Affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges,
20 F. Supp. 608, denying a petition for an injunction.
APPEAL

Mr. William Watson Smith, with whom Messrs. Frank
B. Ingersoll and Leon E. Hickman were on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Walter L. Rice, John W.
Aiken, Hugh B. Cox, John C. Herberg, and Edward Dumbauld were on the brief, for the United States.

