BERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 26.

Argued Novenqber 9, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

1. The sentence in a criminal case is the final judgment. P. 212.
2. A sentence remains the final judgment, and is appealable, notwithstanding a suspension of execution. P. 212.
In criminal cases, as well as civil, the judgment is final for the
purpose of appeal when it terminates the litigation on the merits
and leaves nothing to be done but to enforce by execution what has
been determined.
3. The finality of a sentence and the right to appeal from it are not
affected by placing the convict on probation. P. 213.
4. During the pendency of an appeal from a sentence, the District
Court is without jurisdiction to modify its judgment by resentencing the prisoner. P. 214.
88 F. (2d) 645, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

301 U. S. 675, to review a judgment dis-

missing an appeal from a criminal sentence and affirming
a later one imposed after the appeal was taken.

Mr. Samuel H. Kaufman, with whom Messrs. Emil
Weitzner and Isadore Polier were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. William W. Barron, with whom Solicitor General

Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon. and Mr.
W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.

On conviction upon an indictment containing several

counts for using the mails to defraud (18 U. S. C. 338)
and for conspiracy to that end (18 U. S. C. 88), petitioner
was sentenced on each count to serve a year and a day,

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the terms of imprisonment to run concurrently. Execution of the sentence was suspended and petitioner was
placed on probation for two years. Petitioner appealed
from the sentence.
While the appeal was pending and without its withdrawal, petitioner fearing its dismissal applied to the
District Court for resentence. That court reimposed the
prior sentence of imprisonment, again suspending its execution, and added a fine of one dollar upon each count.
The court did not vacate the prior sentence. Petitioner
then appealed from the second sentence.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that, by reason of
suspension of its execution, the first sentence was interlocutory and dismissed the first appeal. Assuming that
appeal to be a nulhity, the Court of Appeals thought that
the District Court had power to resentence; that petitioner could not complain of the fine as it was imposed
at his request; and that the second sentence of imprisonment, if tal' .n alone, was interlocutory. The judgment
imposing the fine was affirmed and the appeal from the
second sentence of imprisonment was dismissed. 88' F.
(2d) 645.
We are of the opinion that the Court of Appeals erred
in dismissing the first appeal as interlocutory. Petitioner
was convicted and sentenced. Final judgment in a criminal case means sentence. The sentence is the judgi.,ent.
Miller v. Aderhold, 288 U. S. 206, 210; Hill v. Wampler,
298 U. S. 460, 464. Here, the imposition of the sentence
was not suspended, but only its execution. The sentence
was not vacated. It stood as a final determination of the
merits of the criminal charge. To create finality it was
necessary that petitioner's conviction should be followed
by sentence (Hill v. Wampler, supra) but when so followed the finality of the judgment was not lost because
execution was suspended. In criminal cases, as well as
civil, the judgment is final for the purpose of appeal

BERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
211

213

Opinion of the Court.

"when it terminates the litigation . . on the merits"
and "leaves nothing to be done but to enforce by execution what has been determined." St. Louis, I. M. &
S. R. Co. v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28;
United States v. Pile, 130 U. S. 280, 283; Heike v. United
States, 217 U. S. 423, 429.
Petitioner stands a convicted felon and unless the judgment against him is vacated or reversed he is subject to all
the disabilities flowing from such a judgment. The record
discloses that petitioner is a lawyer and by reason of his
conviction his license was subject to revocation (and petitioner says that he has been disbarred) without inquiry
into his guilt or innocence. Matter of Ackerson, 218 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 388, 392; 218 N. Y. S. 654. His civil rights
may be determined solely by reference to the judgment.
Placing petitioner upon probation did not affect 'the
finality of the judgment. Probation is concerned with
rehabilitation, not with the determination of guilt. It
does not secure reconsideration of issues that have been
determined or change the judgment that has been rendered. Probation or suspension of sentence "comes as an
act of grace to one convicted of a crime." Escoe v. Zerbst,
295 U. S. 490, 492, 493. The considerations it involves
are entirely apart from any reexamination of the merits
of the litigation. Probation was designed "to aid the rehabilitation of a penitent offender; to take advantage of
an opportunity for reformation which actual service of
the suspended sentence might make less probable." Thus
probation cannot be demanded as a right. "The defendant stands convicted; he faces punishment and cannot
insist on terms or strike a bargain." Burns v. United
States, 287 U. S. 216, 220. But if final judgment determining his guilt has been rendered, he still has the
opportunity to seek by appeal a reversal of that judgment and thus to secure not an opportunity to reform but
vindication.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

As the first sentence was a final judgment and appeal

therefrom was properly taken, the District Court was
without jurisdiction during the pendency of that appeal
to modify its judgment by resentencing the prisoner.
Draperv. Davis, 102 U. S. 370, 371; Keyser v. Farr,105
U. S. 265, 266; Spirou v. United States, 24 F. (2d) 796,

797; United States v. Radice, 40 F. (2d) 445, 446; United
States v. Habib, 72 F. (2d) 271.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed so far as it dismissed the first appeal and affirmed
the later judgment imposing the fine, and the cause is
remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. KAPP

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 97.

Argued November 12, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

1. Within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act, an indictment
for conspiracy (Criminal Code, ยง 37) to commit a substantive
offense may be treated as founded on the statute defining the substantive offense. P. 216.
2. The District Court sustained a demurrer to 9,n indictment for conspiracy to violate the False Claims Act (ยง 35 Criminal Code), upon
the ground that that Act does not apply to an attempt to defraud
the United States by obtaining approval of claims to payments
of money through false representations, if the statute authorizing
such payments is invalid. Held:
(1) A construction not of the indictment but of the False Claims
Act. P. 217.
(2) An inadmissible construction. Id.
3. Those who attempt to obtain payments from the Government by
false representations are estopped to defend upon the ground that
the statute providing for such payments has been declared unconstitutional. P. 218.
'1eversed.

