UNITED STATES v. McGOWAN.
528

Statement of the Case.

which otherwise would not exist-consequences which do
not attach to the waiver here." 275 U. S. 232.
The statement filed after the period for filing claims
had expired was not a permissible amendment of the
original claim presented. It was a new claim untimely
filed and the Commissioner was without power, under the
statute, to consider it.
The judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. McGOWAN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 138.

Argued December 17, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. The Reno Indian Colony is situated on lands owned by the
United States within the State of Nevada, which were acquired
by purchase for the purpose of establishing a permanent settlement for needy non-reservation Indians of the State and for the
Washoe Tribe of Indians. It is under the superintendence of
the Federa Government. Held "Indian country" within the meaning of 25 U. S. C. § 247, subjecting to forfeiture automobiles and
other vehiclei uied in taking intoxicants into the "Indian country."
P. 53§.
2. That an Indian settlement has been designated by Congress as
a "colony" rather than a "reservation" does not prevent the application to it of a law relating to the "Indian country." P. 539.
3. Congress alone has the right to determine the manner in which
the Nation's guardianship over the Indians shall be carried out.
P. 538.
4. That the State has not relinquished jurisdiction over the area
occupied by the Reno Indian Colony does not prevent the application to it of the federal law forbidding taking intoxicants into the
"Indian country." P. 539.
89 F. (2d) 201, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 666, to review a decree affirming

a decree of the District Court, 16 F. Supp. 453, dismissing,

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

in two cases consolidated for trial, libels seeking forfeiture
of automobiles under U. S. C., Tit. 25, § 247.
Mr. William H. Ramsey, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs..
William W. Barron and W: Marvin Smith were on the
brief, for the United States.
No appearance for claimants-respondents.*
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Court of Appeals affirmed a decree of the District
Court dismissing libel proceedings brought by the United
States praying forfeiture of two automobiles used to carry
intoxicants into the Reno (Nevada) Indian Colony.' The
proceedings were instituted under Title 25, U. S. C. § 247
which provides in part: 2
"Automobiles or any other vehicles or conveyances used
in introducing, or attempting to introduce, intoxicants
into the Indian country, or where the introduction is prohibited by treaty or Federal statute, whether used by the
owner thereof or other person, shall be subject to
seizure, libel, and forfeiture..."
Both courts below concluded that the Reno Indian
Colony is not "Indian country" within the meaning of
this statute.
The only question for determination is whether this
colony is such Indian country. In -this inquiry, both the
legislative history of the term "Indian country" and the
traditional policy of the United States in regulating the
sale of intoxicants to Indians are important.
* The Government, in an Appendix to its brief, printed a brief
submitted for the defendants in the District Court.
'Certiorari granted, post, p. 666.
'39 Stat. 970.

UNITED STATES v. McGOWAN.
535

537

Opinion of the Court.

The Reno Indian Colony is composed of several hundred Indians residing on a tract of 28.38 acres of land

owned by the United States and purchased out of funds
appropriated by Congress in 1917 8 and in 1926." The
purpose of Congress in creating this colony was to provide
lands for needy Indians scattered over the State of Nevada, and to equip and supervise these Indians in establishing a permanent settlement.'
The words "Indian country" have appeared in the statutes relating to Indians for more than a century.' We
must consider "the changes which have taken place in our
- 39 Stat. 123, 143.
'44 Stat. 496. The Act of 1917, under authority of which 20 acres
of land were bought, contained items reading as follows:
"For the purpose of procuring home and farm sites, with adequate
water rights, and providing agricultural equipment and instruction
and other necessary supplies for the nonreservation Indians in the
State of Nevada, $15,000 ..."
"For the purchase of land'and water rights for the Washoe Tribe
of Indians, the title to which is to be held in the United States for
the benefit of said Indians, $10,000, to be immediately available; for
the support and civilization of said Indians, $5,000; in all, $15,000."
On recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior the 1926 additional appropriation was made and 8.38 acres were added to the
Colony to take care of additional worthy Indian families who were
anxious to establish homes in the Colony. See, House Report No.
795, 69th Congress, 1st Session.
'Hearings on the 1917 Act disclosed the following statement by the
Senator sponsoring the appropriation:
"These Indians live just from hand to mouth.... They have no
reservation to live on, and no protection whatever, and it is an outrage .... It is useless to go and appropriate for some public lands
unless you can acquire water rights for them .... Those who take
the most interest in Indian affairs in our State (Nevada) think the
best thing to do is to purchase a tract of real agricultural land, say,
100 acres, close to Carson City, with a water right, where these Indians can raise garden stuff and chickens, and have a home and a
market for their produce." Hearings, Comm. on Indian Affairs, U. S.
Senate, on H. R. 20150, Vol. 1, pp. 226, 227 (1915).
*See, Act of June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 729, c. 161.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

situation, with a view of determining from time to time
what must be regarded as Indian country where it is
spoken of in the statutes." " Also, due regard must be
given to the fact that from an early period of our history,
the Government has prescribed severe penalties to enforce
laws regulating the sale of liquor on lands occupied by
Indians under government supervision. Indians of the
Reno Colony have been established in homes under the
supervision and guardianship of the United States. The
policy of Congress, uniformly enforced through the decisions of this Court, has been to regulate the liquor traffic
with Indians occupying such a settlement.' This protection is extended by the United States "over all dependent Indian communities within its borders, whether
within its original territory or territory subsequently
acquired, and whether within or without the limits of a
State." ' [Italics added.]
The fundamental consideration of both Congress and
the Department of the Interior in establishing this colony has been the protection of a dependent people. 10
Indians in this colony have been afforded the same protection by the government as that given Indians in other
settlements known as "reservations." Congress alone has
the right to determine the manner-in which this country's guardianship over the Indians shall be carried out,"
and it is immaterial whether Congress designates a settle'Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561; Clairmont v. United
States, 225 U. S. 551, 557.
'The House Committee Report on the 1917 appropriation reads in
part: "The active and wholesome policy of the present commissioner
in preventing the sale of intoxicating liquors to the Indians and in
using their surplus or tribal funds in the purchasing of live stock to
put on their reservations has been a very long step in the right
direction." [Italics added.] House Report, Volume 1, 64th Congress, 1st Session, Report No. 87, page 2.
' United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 46.
"Cf. United States v. Pelican, 232 U. S.442, 450.
"United States v. Sandoval, supra.

UNITED STATES v. McGOWAN.
535

539

Opinion of the Court.

ment as a "reservation" or "colony." In the case of
United States v. Pelican, 232 U. S. 442, 449, this Court
said:
"In the present case the original reservation was Indian country simply because it had been validly set apart
for the use of the Indians as such, under the superintendence of the Government." [Italics added.]
The Reno Colony has been validly set apart for the use
of the Indians. It is under the superintendence of the
Government. The Government retains title to the lands
which it permits the Indians to occupy. The Government has authority to enact regulations and protective
laws respecting this territory."2 ". . . Congress possesses the broad power of legislating for the protection of
the Indians wherever they may be within the territory
of the United States . . ." United States v. Ramsey, 271
U. S. 467, 471.
When we view the facts of this case in the light of the
relationship which has long existed between the Government and the Indians-and which continues to date "it is not reasonably possible to draw any distinction between this Indian "colony" and "Indian country." We
conclude that § 247 of Title 25, supra, does apply to the
Reno Colony.
2. The federal prohibition against taking intoxicants
into this Indian colony does not deprive the State of Nevada of its sovereignty over the area in question. The
Federal Government does not assert exclusive jurisdiction within the colony. Enactments of the Federal Government passed to protect and guard its Indian wards
only affect the operation, within the colony, of such state
14
laws as conflict with the federal enactments.
"'Hallowell v. United States, 221 U. S. 317; Constitution. Art. IV,

Sec. 3, C1. 2.
"Cf. Act of June 18, 1934, c. 576, 48 Stat. 984.
"See, Hallowell v. United States, supra; Surplus Trading Co. v.
Cook, 281 U. S. 647.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

540

Syllabus.

302 U. S.

Under the findings made by the District Court in this
cause, a decree of forfeiture should have been rendered
against the automobiles involved. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the District Court for action to be taken in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. RAYNOR.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH

No. 146.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued November 12, 15, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. Section 150 of the Criminal Code provides that "whoever shall
have or retain in his control or possession after a distinctive paper
has been adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for the obligations and other securities of the United States, any similar paper
adapted to the making of any such obligation or other security,.
except under the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury or
some other proper officer of the United States, shall be fined . . ."
etc. Held, the words "similar paper adapted to the making of any
such obligation" embrace paper similar to though not identical
with the adopted distinctive paper and which is adapted to the
making of counterfeits of government obligations Pp. 545, 551.
2. Possession by an unauthorized person, of paper of practically the
same color, weight, thickness and appearance of the distinctive
paper theretofore adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for
obligations and securities of the United States; and which was cut
to the dimensions of genuine twenty dollar notes and rattled like
*

Together with No. 147, United States v. Fowler, also on writ of

certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

