82

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

GROMAN v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 21. Argued October 21, 22, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. Section 112 (i) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1928 declaring that the
term party to a reorganization "includes" a cbrporation resulting
from a reorganization, and both corporations when one acquires
specified proportions of stock of another, is not an exclusive definition, but rather is intended to enlarge the meaning of the term
beyond its ordinary connotation. P. 85.
2. Pursuant to an agreement between a corporation (G) and shareholders of another corporation (I) :-G formed a new corporation
(0), subscribing for its common stock and paying for it with cash
and G's own preference shares; I's shareholders sold their shares
to 0 and received from 0 a consideration made up of preference
shares of G, and of 0 and cash; I then transferred its assets to
0 and was dissolved. Held that G was not "a party" to the
reorganization and that the shares of G's preference stock received
by I shareholders- from 0 were a basis for computing taxable
gain. Revenue Act of 1928, § 112. P. 88.
86 F. (2d) 670, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 677, to review a judgment overruling an order of the Board of Tax Appeals and sustaining an income tax deficiency assessment.
Mr. Egbert Robertson, with whom Mr. James C. Spence
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, Joseph M. Jones, and Maurice J. Mahoney
were on the brief, for respondent.

GROMAN v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

82

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the meaning and scope of the phrase
"a party to a reorganization" as used in § 112 of the Revenue Act of 1928.1
January 29, 1929, the petitioner, and all other shareholders of Metals Refining Company, an Indiana corporation, hereinafter designated Indiana, entered into a
contract with the Glidden Company, an Ohio corporation, reciting thc..t the shareholders of Indiana were desirous of merging and consolidating the properties of their
company with Glidden and with a corporation Glidden
was to organize under the laws of Ohio, which corporation we shall call Ohio. The shareholders covenanted
that they would assign their shares to Ohio, which was to
have a specified capital structure divided into preferred
and common shares, and Glidden covenanted that it
would issue and deliver, or cause to be issued and delivered, to the shareholders a stated number of shares of
its own prior preference stock at an agreed valuation, a
stated number of shares of the preferred stock of Ohio,
also at an agreed valuation, and sufficient cash to equal
the appraised value of Indiana's assets as of March 1,
1929, and that, after the exchange of stock, Glidden would
cause Indiana to transfer its assets to Ohio.
Glidden organized Ohio and became the owner of all
its common stock but none of its preferred stock. Pursuant to the contract the shareholders of Indiana transferred their stock to Ohio and received therefor a total
consideration of. $1,207,016 consisting of Glidden prior
preference stock valued at $533,980, shares of the preCh. 852, 45 Stat. 791, 816.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S

ferred stock of Ohio valued at $500,000, and $153,036 in
cash. Indiana then transferred its assets to Ohio and was
dissolved.
As a result of the reorganization petitioner received
shares of Glidden stock, shares of Ohio stock, and $17,293
in cash. In his return for 1929 he included the $17,293 as
income received but ignored the shares of Glidden and of
Ohio as stock received in exchange in a reorganization.
The respondent ruled that Glidden was not a party to a
reorganization within the meaning of the Revenue Act,
treated the transaction as a taxable exchange to the extent
of the cash and shares of Glidden, and determined a deficiency of,$7,420. Upon receipt of notice to this effect the
petitioner appealed to the BQard of Tax Appeals which
reversed the Commissioner, holding that Glidden was a
party to a reorganization. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the Board. We granted the writ of certiorari
because of an alleged conflict of decision.8
Section 112 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1928 declares
that "No gain or loss shall be recognized if stock or securities in a corporation a party to a reorganization are,
in pursuance of the plan of reorganization, exchanged
solely for stock or securities in such corporation or in another corporation a party to tle reorganization." If the
transaction involves the receipt of such stock or securities
and "also of other property or money" then the gain, if
any, is to be recognized in an amount not in excess of the
sum of such money and the fair market value of such
other property. Section 112 (c) (1).
Section 112 (i) (1) declares: "The term 'reorganization'
means (A) a merger or consolidation (including the acquisition by one corporation of at least a majority of the
'86 F. (2d) 670.
' See Sage v. Cdmmissioner, 83 F. (2d) 221; Commissioner v. Fifth
Avenue Bank, 84 F. (2d) 787; Commissioner v. Bashford, 87 F. (2d)
827.

GROMAN v. COMMISSIONER.
82

Opinion of the Court.

voting stock and at least a majority of the total number
of shares of all other classes of stock of another corporation, or substantially all the properties of another corporation), or (B) a transfer by a corporation of all or
a part of its assets to another corporation if immediately
after the transfer the transferor or its stockholders or both
are in control of the corporation to which the assets are
transferred, or (C) a recapitalization, or (D) a mere
change in identity, form, or place of organization, however effected." Subsection (2) is: "The term 'a party to
a reorganization' includes a corporation resulting from
a reorganization and includgs both corporations in the
case of an acquisition by one corporation of at least a
majority of the voting stock and at least a majority of
the total number of shares of all other classes of.stock of
another corporation."
It is agreed that under the plain terms of the statute
the cash received by the petitioner was income, and that
as the stock of Ohio was obtained in part payment for
that of Indiana, the exchange, to that extent, did not give
rise to income to be included in the computation of petitioner's tax.
The question is whether that portion of the consideration consisting of prior preference shares of Glidden
should be recognized in determining petitioner's taxable
gain. The decision of this question depends upon
whether Glidden's stock was that of a party to the reorganization for, if so, the statute declares gain or loss
due to its receipt shall not be included in the taxpayer's
computation of income for the year in which the exchange was made.
If § 112 (i) (2) is a definition of a party to a reorganization and excludes corporations not therein described,
Glidden was not a party since its relation to the transaction is not within the terms of the definition. It was
not a corporation resulting from the reorganization; and

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

it did not acquire a majority of the shares of voting stock
and a majority of the shares of all other classes of stock
of any other corporation in the reorganization. The Circuit Court of Appeals thought the section was intended as
a definition of the term party as used in the Act and
excluded all corporations not specifically described. It
therefore held Glidden could not be considered a party to
the reorganization.
The petitioner contends, we think correctly, that the
section is not a definition but rather is intended to enlarge the connotation of the term "a party to a reorganization" to embrace corporations whose relation to the
transaction would not in common usage be so denominated or as to whose status doubt might otherwise arise.
This conclusion is fortified by the fact that when an exclusive definition is intended the word "means" is employed, as in the section we have quoted defining reorganization and in § 112 (j), defining the term "control,"
whereas here the word used is "includes." If more were
needed § 701 (b) declares: "The terms 'includes' and
'including' when used in a definition contained in this
Act shall not be deemed to exclude other things otherwise within the meaning of the term defined."
The Treasury, in its regulations, has construed the section as not embodying an exclusive definition.4 The
administrative construction of an identical section in the
Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926 has been the same."
4 Treasury Regulations 74, promulgated under the Revenue Act of
1928, Art. 577: "The term 'a party to a reorganization' . . . includes a corporation resulting from a reorganization and includes
both corporations in the case of an acquisition by one corporation
of at least a majority of the voting stock and at least a majority
of the total number of shares of all other classes of stock o~f another

corporation. This definition is not an all-inclusive one, but simply
enumerates certain cases with respect to which doubt might arise."
5 Regulations 65, Art. 1577, applicable to § 203 (h) (2) of the
Revenue Act of 1924; Regulations 69, Art. 1577, applicable to

§ 203 (h) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1926.

GROMAN v. COMMISSIONER.
82

Opinion of the Court.

If the shareholders of A, and those of B, should agree
to convey their stock to a new corporation C, in exchange
for C's stock, a reorganization, as defined in § 112 (i) (1)
would be effected. But it might well be contended, were
it not for § 112 (i) (2), that the shareholders of the old
corporations had not received stock in a non-taxable exchange, as specified in § 112 (b) (3), since the new corporation C was not a party to i, exchange. In the
present instance, Indiana had no part in the transaction.
The shareholders agreed to transfer their stock to Ohio in
exchange for securities. Indiana, as such, was not a party
to any agreement and took no corporate action. If the
plan had contemplated the continued existence of Indiana,
and part payment of its shareholders in bonds or preferred stock of that company, and part in shares of Ohio,
while this would clearly have constituted a reorganization as defined by the Act, it might, with reason, be
urged that, as respects the bonds or preferred stock of
Indiana, the exchange was taxable since Indiana was
not a party to the reorganization. Section 112 (i) (2)
precludes the contention.'
Plainly, however, there may be corporate parties to
reorganizations, within the meaning of the statute, other
than those enumerated in § 112 (i) (2). Thus if corporations A and B transfer all their assets to C, a new
corporation, in exchange for all C's stock, the stock received is not a basis for calculation of gain on the
exchange.! A and B are so evidently parties to the reorganization that we do not need § 112 (i) (2) to inform
us of the fact.
Again, if company A transfers all its assets to company
B, a going concern, upon the agreement of B to issue
to A's shareholders its stock ,n such amount that they
Compare Helvering v. Watts, 296 U. S. 387.
Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., 296 U. S. 378; G. & K.
Manufacturing Co. v. Helvering, 296 U. S. 389.
7Compare

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

will own eighty per cent. of every class of B's outstanding stock, the consummation of the agreement will be a
reorganization under the Act.8 Unquestionably the gain
ensuing upon the exchange of stock by A's shareholders
will not be taxable since the stock received by them is
that of B, a party to the reorganization, though B is not
described as such in § 112 (i) (2). We must, therefore,
irrespective of Glidden's failure to qualify as a party
under that section, determine whether its relation to the
reorganization is that of a party within the ordinary connotation of the term.
Glidden was a party to an agreement with the shareholders of Indiana and the agreement envisaged a reorganization as defined by § 112 (i) (1) (A) for it contemplated
that Ohio should acquire all of the stock of Indiana.
The agreement was fulfilled. But the crucial question
is whether Glidden was a party to the reorganization
thus effected. Gl'dden received hothing from the shareholders of Indiana. The exchange was between Indiana's
shareholders, and Ohio. Do the facts that Glidden contracted for the exchange and made it possible by subscribing and paying for Ohio's common stock in cash, so that
Ohio could consummate the exchange, render Glidden a
party to the reorganization? No more so than if a banking corporation had made the agreement with Indiana's
shareholders and had organized the new corporation, and,
by subscription to its stock and payment therefor
in money and the banking company's stock put the
new company in position to complete the exchange.
Not every corporate broker, promoter, or agent which
enters into a written agreement effectuating a reorganization, as defined in the Revenue Act, thereby becomes
a party to'the reorganization. And, if it is not a party,
its stock received in exchange, pursuant to the plan, is
8 Section 112, Subsections (i) (1) (B) and (j).

GROMAN v. COMMISSIONER.
82

Opinion of the Court.

"other property" mentioned in § 112 (c) (1) and must
be reckoned in computing gain or loss to the recipient.
Glidden was, in the transaction in question, no more than
the efficient agent in bringing about a reorganization. It
was not, in the natural meaning of the term, a party to
the reorganization.
It is argued, however, that Ohio was the alter ego, of
Glidden; that in truth Glidden was the principal and
Ohio its agent; that we should look at the realities of the
situation, disregard the corporate entity of Ohio, and treat
it as Glidden. But to do so would be to ignore the purpose of the reorganization sections of the statute, which,
as we have said, is that where, pursuant to a plan, the
interest of the stockholders of a corporation continues to
be definitely represented in substantial measure in a new
or different one, then to the extent, but only to the extent, of that continuity of interest, the exchange is to be
treated as one not giving rise to present gain or loss."
If cash or "other property,"-that is, property other than
stock or securities of the reorganized corporations,-is
received, present gain or loss must be recognized. Was
not Glidden's prior preference stock "other property" in
the sense that its ownership represented a participation
in assets in which Ohio, and its shareholders through it,
had no proprietorship? Was it not "other property" in
the sense that qua that stock the shareholders of Indiana
assumed a relation toward the conveyed assets not measured by a continued substantial interest in those assets
in the ownership of Ohio, but an interest in the assets of
Glidden a part of which was the common stock of Ohio?
These questions we think must be answered in the affirmative. To reject the plain meaning of the term "party,"
Pinellas Ice Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462, 470; Nelson Co.
v. Helvering, 296 U. S. 374, 377; Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co.,
296 U. S. 378, 385; G. & K. Manufacturing Co. v. Helvering, 296
U. S. 389, 391.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

and to attribute that relation to Glidden, would be not
only to disregard the letter but also to violate the spirit
of the Revenue Act.
We hold that Glidden was not a party to the reorganization and the receipt of its stock by Indiana's shareholders in exchange, in part, for their stock was the basis
for computation of taxable gain to them in the year 1929.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PUGET SOUND STEVEDORING

CO. v. STATE TAX

COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 68. Argued October 13, 14, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. The business of a stevedoring corporation, acting as an independent contractor, in so far as it consists of the unloading or
discharge of cargoes of vessels engaged in interstate or foreign
commerce by longshoremen subject to its own direction and control,
is interstate or foreign commerce, and the privilege of doing it
can not be taxed by the State. P. 92.
2. In so far as the business of a stevedoring corporation consists of
supplying longshoremen to shipowners or masters without directing or controlling the work of loading or unloading, it is not interstate or foreign commerce, but rather a local business, and subject,
like, such business generally, to taxation by the State. P. 94.
189 Wash. 131; 63 P. (2d) 532, modified.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a
suit to enjoin collection of a tax on the business of the
appellant measured by gross receipts.
Mr. John Ambler, with whom Messrs. Ben C. Grosscup

and Bernard H. Levinson were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. E. P. Donnelly for appellees.

