OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

WILLING, RECEIVER, v. BINENSTOCK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

r~o. 36.

Argued November 17, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

1. In Pennsylvania, deposits to the credit of individual members of a
partnership in an insolvent bank may be set off against an obligation of the partnership to the bank. P. 274.
2. Nothing in the National Banking Act or in any other federal statute conflicts with the application of this rule in the liquidation of
an insolvent national bank in Pennsylvania. P. 276.
3. A federal court will lean towards agreement with the courts of the
State when the question seems balanced with doubt. P. 275.
4. A depositor in an insolvent national bank is not entitled to set off
his deposit against a secondary liability as indorser of a note the
maker of which is solvent. P. 276.
5. Where the facts disclosed by the record are insufficient to enable
this Court to dispose of a substantial question, the case may be
remanded to the district court for further consideration of the
question, with authority, in its discretion, to take further evidence
to that end. P. 277.
88 F. (2d) 474, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 678, to review a decree affirming
a decree, 18 F. Supp. 262, in favor of. the claimants in a
suit against the receiver of a national bank.

Messrs. James M.

Kane and George P. Barse, with

whom Mr. Thomas J. Minnick, Jr. was on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Mr. C. Russell

Phillips was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the

opinion of the

Court.

This is a suit brought by respondents in a federal district court in Pennsylvania seeking to have allowed as
a set-off against the indebtedness of the partnership firm

WILLING v. BINENSTOCK.
272

Opinion of the Court.

of Swinger and Binenstock to the Commercial National
Bank the amount of a deposit in the bank by Swinger,
now deceased, and so much of a deposit by Binenstock
as might be necessary to cancel the indebtedness. The
bank was organized under the National Banking Act of
the United States, and as such was engaged in business
in Pennsylvania. On January 9, 1933, the partnership
executed and delivered its promissory note to the bank
in the sum of $10,000; and on February 28, 1933, executed and delivered to the bank its further promissory
note in the same amount. Under date of January 25,
1933, one Luciano Cammarota executed and delivered to
the partnership his promissory note for $300, which note
was endorsed and discounted at the bank.
At the close of business on February 28, Swinger had
on deposit in the bank the sum of $1,546.58, and Binenstock the sum of $32,323.76. At the same time, the partnership had on deposit the sum of $5,822.52. On that
date the bank became insolvent and was taken over by
the Comptroller of Currency, who appointed petitioner,
Willing, receiver. Petitioner, when the suit was brought,
had reduced the indebtedness of the partnership by allowing a set-off of the amount of the partnership deposit,
but had failed and refused to allow as a set-off the
amounts here in controversy.
Upon these facts the district court sustained the claim
of respondents, 18 F. Supp. 262, and entered a decree
allowing the set-off of the individual deposits against the
joint indebtedness of the partnership, ordering a cancellation and return of the partnership promissory notes, and
allowing a claim of Binenstock agginst the assets of the
bank for the amount of his deposit, after making provision for the set-off. The decree also directed petitioner
to endorse, without recourse, and deliver to Binenstock,
the note of Cammarota for $300. Upon appeal, the court
below affirmed. 88 F. (2d) 474. The decrees in both

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

courts were based upon what was understood and declared
by them to be the Pennsylvania rule upon the subject.
The case has been elaborately argued upon both sides;
but, in respect of the partnership notes, we find it unnecessary to do more than consider and determine the
question whether the courts below correctly stated the
Pennsylvania law on the subject and were right in following it as the controlling rule of decision.
First. In Miller v. Reed, 27 Pa. 244, the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania held that, whatever distinctions otherwise would exist between joint contracts and contracts
joint and several, these distinctions, under the statutes
of the state, had been obliterated. These statutes, it was
said (p. 249), "have taken away distinctions that were
always embarrassing, and sometimes insuperable obstacles to the course of justice. There was no difference in
the duty before, and none in the remedy now. The moral
obligation is not affected by the words joint and several,
and in Pennsylvania at least, the legal liability is not."
It, therefore, makes no difference here whether the
Swinger and Binenstock notes were joint, or joint and
several.
In the opinion of the federal district court in this case,
Judge Kirkpatrick said: "The law of the state of Pennsylvania, if applicable, would clearly sustain the bill. The
decisions of that state allow individual claims to be set
off in equity against a joint liability even though the
party asserting the joint liability is solvent. Stewart v.
Coulter, 12 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 252; Cochran v. Cutter, 18
Pa. Super. 282. See also Mintz v. Tri-County Natural
Gas Company, 259 Pa. 477." He held the law applicable
and entered the decree accordingly. The court below
affirmed on the authority of the opinion of the district
judge.
Petitioner challenges this view of the district judge,
albeit faintly. The judges of both courts below have had

WILLING v. BINENSTOCK.
272

Opinion of the Court.

wide experience in the field of Pennsylvania law; and,
even if the question were doubtful, as we think it is not,
we should have little hesitation in accepting their determination as to the state law on the point here under consideration. We have, however, examined the decisions
of the Pennsylvania courts, and fully agree with the
courts below as to their interpretation.
Second. We have no occasion to consider whether
ยง 721 of the Revised Statutes (28 U. S. C. ยง 725) is applicable.* Under Suwift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, it would not be.
That case has been much criticized, and the tendency of
our decisions which have followed has been to limit it
somewhat strictly. And one of the practical restrictions
upon the principle of that case, which we have many
times announced, is that, even where it applies, "for the
sake of harmony and to avoid confusion, the Federal
courts will lean towards an agreement of views with the
State courts if the question seems to them balanced
with doubt." Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.20, 33-34;
Sim v. Edenborn, 242 U. S.131, 135, and authorities cited;
Trainor Co. v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 290 U. S.
47, 54-55; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S.
335, 340; Community Bldg. Co. v. Maryland Casualty
Co., 8 F. (2d) 678, 680. Even if there were a conflict
between the decisions of the state and those of the lower
federal courts, we 8hould be free to apply the "harmony"
rule and follow the state decisions. We are, however,
unable to find any such conflict.
The case which seems most nearly in point is Roelker
v. Bromley-Shepard Co., 73 F. (2d) 618; and that case,
so far as it goes, is in harmony with the Pennsylvania
rule. There, the company was indebted to the Middle* Sec. 721. "The laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require
or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common
law, in the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. Sf

sex National Bank in the sum of $5,000 on a joint note
signed by the company and Sarah Bromley Shepard. On
the day the bank closed, the company had on deposit in
the bank $5,611.10 and Sarah Bromley Shepard had on
deposit the sum of $6,275.13. The court ordered that
$5,000 of the $5,611.10 due from the bank to the company be set off against the $5,000 due from the company to the bank on the joint note, holding that where
justice requires and there is no adequate remedy at
law, as was the case there, a court of equity will order a
set-off.
There is nothing in the National Banking Act or in
any other-federal statute which conflicts with the Pennsylvania rule. In the case of an insolvent bank, the
National Banking Act, 12 U. S. C. ยง 194, simply provides
for a "ratable dividend" on all proved or adjudicated
claims. This court held in Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S.
499, 510, that the allowance of a valid set-off cannot
be considered a preference, and that only the balance,
after deduction of the set-off, constitutes part of the
assets of the insolvent. "The requirement," the court
said, "as to ratable dividends, is to make them from what
belongs to the -bank, and that which at the time of the
insolvency belongs of right to the debtor does not belong
to the bank."
Third. The reason for the order of the district court requiring the surrender of the Cammarota note for $300 is
not clear, but the requirement seems to be erroneous. It
does not appear from the record whether Cammarota
was solvent or insolvent. If he was solvent, the partnership was not entitled to set off its deposits against
its secondary liability as endorser of the Cammarota note.
See Williams v. Rose, 218 Fed. 898, 900; Bank of United
States v. Braverman, 259 N. Y. 65, 68, et seq.; 181 N. E.
50, and authorities cited. "To allow an indorser," the

BREEDLOVE v. SUTTLES.
272

Syllabus.

New York court said, 259 N. Y., pp. ,70-71, "to set off his
deposit when the maker is solvent and able to indemnify
the indorser as in this case would enable the indorser to
collect the full amount unpaid on the note from the maker
and at the same time receive a larger amount of his deposit
than other depositors. Such a result would be inequitable." An excellent statement in support of the foregoing view, and the reasons for it, will be found in the
opinion delivered by Judge Parker in Shannon v. Sutherland, 74 F. (2d) 530, 531-532.
The facts are not sufficiently disclosed by the record
to enable us to dispose of this item. The opinion of neither
court deals with the subject, and respondents, neither in
their brief nor oral argument, have had anything to say
about it. In these circumstances, the case must be remanded to the district court for further consideration of
the question, with authority, in its discretion, to take
further evidence to that end. With that exception, the
decree below is approved.
Reversed and. remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
/ I
Reversed.
BREEDLOVE v. SUTTLES, TAX COLLECTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 9.

Argued November 16, 17, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A Georgia statute exempts all persons under 21 or over 60 years
of age, and all females who do not register for voting, from a poll
tax of $1.00 per year, which is levied generally upon all inhabi-

tants, and which, under the state constitution, must be paid by the
person liable, together with arrears, before he can be registered for
voting. Held that males who are not within the exemption are
not denied the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 281-282.

