DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO.

485

Argument for Petitioners.

464

this is fundamental; for the competition contemplated
there was unlawful while that of the municipalities contemplated here is entirely lawful.
We deem it unnecessary to review the many other cases
cited by petitioner where suits against officials have been
sustained. An examination of them will disclose the
presence of fraud, coercion, malice, conspiracy, or some
other element or condition of controlling force-none of
which, as shown by the findings which we have accepted
as unassailable, exists in the present case.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.

DUKE POWER CO. ET AL. v. GREENWOOD
COUNTY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 397.

Argued December 7, 8, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

Decided upon the authority of Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, ante,
p. 464.
91 F. (2d) 665, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 675, to review a decree affirming

the dismissal, 19 F. Supp. 932, of a bill to enjoin performance of a contract like those involved in the two cases
last preceding. For an earlier phase of this litigation,
see 299 U. S. 259.
Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., with whom Messrs.
Newton D. Baker, R. T. Jackson, W. R. Perkins, H. J.
Haynsworth, J. H. Marion and W. B. McGuire, Jr. were
on the brief, for petitioners.
The evidence shows that the project was included in
the comprehensive program of public works and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioners.

302 U. S.

federal funds were allotted for its construction pursuant
to the PWA power plan to reduce power rates.
Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act,
rightly construed, does not authorize the action of the
Public Works Administrator in this case. If construed
otherwise it is unconstitutional in that (a) it invades
the reserved powers of the States; (b) it is not within
any power delegated to Congress by the General Welfare
Clause or by any other provision of the Constitution; (c)
it is an unauthorized delegation of the power of the Congress to spend for the general welfare, and (d) as applied
in this case, it deprives the petitioner of its property without due process of law.
The action of the Administrator will be the proximate
cause of the injury which petitioner will sustain.
.This was found as a fact by the District Court both
on the original hearing and on the retrial.
The injury to petitioner will be the inevitable result
of the act of the Administrator in authorizing the
project,-a result necessarily contemplated at the time
of the authorization. Rates were fixed below those of
petitioner in order to attract petitioner's customers, and
contracts subject to the Administrator's approval were
made with petitioner's customers. The very conditions
under which the loan is being made contemplate the
taking of petitioners business, and the repayment of the
loan even in part necessitates the continuation of rates
which will attract petitioner's business..
A defendant is responsible for the consequences of his
wrongful act which might reasonably have been foreseen.
Milwaukee & St. Paul R. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469.
The effect upon petitioner's rates and business was not
only reasonably foreseeable but was in fact foreseen.
The Administrator knew that his act in authorizing the
project and in allotting the funds for its construction,
was calculated to damage petitioner and would do so.

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO. 487
485

Argument for Petitioners.

Petitioner is not complaining of competition by the
County and a decree in favor of petitioner would leave
the County free to compete with petitioner in any lawful way. But, should the plant be constructed, its operation by the County in competition with petitioner would
arise out of and be an immediate consequence of this
action of the Administrator.
The rule that the construction of a competing municipal plant may be enjoined, if the construction would be
illegally financed, as, for instance, by the issuance of
bonds in violation of a constitutional or statutory debt
limitation, is well established. And it is no defense to a
suit by a utility which would be injured by such competition that the utility has no exclusive franchise, and that
the municipality has the lawful right to compete with
it. If the respondents' position were sound, such a suit
would fail on the ground that, the municipality having
the lawful right to compete, no right of the plaintiff
would be infringed and the resulting damage would be
absque inJuria. Contrary to the contention of the respondents, however, the right of the utility to maintain
such a suit is uniformly recognized. [Citing: Campbell
v. Arkansas-Missouri Power Co., 55 F. (2d) 560; Oklahoma Utilities Co. v. Hominy, 2 F. Supp. 849; Iowa
Southern Utilities Co. v. Cassill, 69 F. (2d) 703; Gallardo
v. Porto Rico Ry. L. & P. Co., 18 F. (2d) 918; Colorado
Central Power Co. v. Municipal Power Development Co.,
1 F. Supp. 961; Mississippi Power Co. v. Starkville, 4 F.
Supp. 833; Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278 U. S.
515; Citizens Electric Illuminating Co. v. Lackawanna &
W. V. Power Co., 255 Pa. 145; 18 Harv. L. Rev. 412;
8 Harv. Law Rev. 11; Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33;
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Pierce v. Society of
Sisters, 268 U. S. 510. Other citations to support the
petitioner's right to raise the main questions are here

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioners.

302 U. S.

omitted because included in the summary of the like
argument in the case last preceding.]
The petitioner's business is a private property interest
which the law will protect against invasion through the
unlawful acts of a public official. Pierce v. Society of
Sisters, supra; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605.
A public official may be enjoined from illegal acts involving the unauthorized expenditure of public funds at
the suit of an individual who will be specially grieved
thereby. Frothingham v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 486;
Warner-Quinlan Asphalt Co. v. Carlisle, 158 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 638.
In restraining illegal action by a public official at the
suit of a party specially grieved by such action, a court
of equity is exercising a well established equitable
jurisdiction.
On the same principle equity will enjoin a common
or public nuisance at the suit of a private person who
will suffer a special grievance therefrom. Mayor v.
Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91, 98-100; Corning v.
Lowerre, 6 Johns. Chan. 439; Truax v. Raich, supra.
p. 37.
The objection to suits by taxpayers generally to restrain the enforcement of appropriation statutes on the
score that to permit such suits would lead to a multiplicity of actions, with the attendant inconveniences
resulting therefrom, has no application to a suit by a
party specially aggrieved. The interest that will justify
such a suit is of a sort that will give rise to no such danger
or inconvenience. This is illustrated by the fact that the
validity of even a criminal statute may be challenged by
a party who will sustain a direct injury to his property
rights by the enforcement of the statute.
The District Court should have limited the retrial of
the cause to the question of whether or not there had been

DUKE POWER CO. v. GREENWOOD CO. 489
485

Opinion of the Court.

any material change in the situation since the entry of
the original decree of injunction.
Mr. W. H. Nicholson, with whom Messrs. James F.
Dreher and D. W. Robinson, Jr. were on the brief, for
Greenwood County and its Finance Board, respondents.
M . Jerome N. Frank, with whom Attorney General
Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney
General Morris, and Messrs. Enoch E. Ellison and Robert
E. Sher were on the brief, for respondents Administrator
et al.
MR. JUSTICE
Court.

SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

This case presents the same question as that just decided in Nos. 84 and 85, ante, p. 464. The respondents are
essentially the same, with the addition of Greenwood
County, in the State of South Carolina, and the members
of the finance board of the county. The suit was brought
to enjoin the construction and operation of a local electric
power plant in the county, and the making of a loan and
grant by the federal administrator to the county, for
that purpose, under the provisions of Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act, set forth, so far as
material, in Nos. 84-85, supra.
The case was here on a previous writ, upon consideration of which this court, because of substantial irregularities in practice, reversed the judgment of the court below
with directions to vacate the decrees entered by the district court, and remand the cause to that court with
directions to permit the parties to amend their pleadings
in the light of existing facts, and retry the cause upon
the issues then presented. We expressed no opinion upon
the merits or the relevancy or effect of the evidence.
299 U. S. 259. Accordingly, the case was remanded to

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.'

302 U. S.

the district court, and reheard. The district court, after
making findings of fact and conclusions of law, dismissed
the bill. The court below, upon appeal, considered the
case fully, and delivered an exhaustive opinion. It held
(1) that the statute, under which the administrator proposed to act, was constitutional; (2) that he acted wi-thin
the power granted him by the statute; and (3) that in
any event no legal right of plaintiffs was violated by what
had been done. 91 F. (2d) 665; see also preceding
decision, 81 F. (2d) 986.
Upon the question of petitioners' standing to maintain
the suit, the lower court held, in substance, that the
competition proposed by the county was lawful and that
even though the administrator were without authority to
make the proposed loan and grant, no legal right of petitioners was thereby invaded. The opinion upon this
branch of the case is in harmony with the views we have
just expressed in Nos. 84 and 85; and it follows that
the decree must be, and it is,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

TEXTILE MACHINE WORKS v. LOUIS HIRSCH
TEXTILE MACHINES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 62.

Argued November 19, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. Claims 1, 3, 14 and 15 of Patent No. 1,713,628,. to Schletter,
May 21, 1929, for an attachment for "flat" or "straight" knitting
machines, including machines of the "full-fashioned" type, held
invalid for want of novelty. Pp. 494, 497.
Claim 14, taken as typical, defines the invention
as the combination in a straight knitting machine of (a) a set of yarn guide
carrier bars for operating yarn guides traveling less than the

