220

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U.S.

posed on count one." Each of the sentences on the remaining counts runs from the expiration of the term of
imprisonment imposed on the preceding count. In view
of the invalidity of the. sentence on count one, the sentences on the remaining counts should be amended so as
to fix a definite date for their commencement.
The judgments on count one are severally reversed and
the causes are remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
FORTE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 459.

Argued November 15, 1937.--Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A bill nf exceptions agreed to by counsel and filed with the clerk
of the District Court within the time allowed for settlement by
No. IX of the Criminal Appeals Rules, but not settled and signed
by the judge until afterwards, is not settled in time. P. 223.
If the trial judge is absent from the district, the rule permits
settlement by any other judge assigned to hold, or holding, the
court in which the case was tried.
2. Where the Court of Appeals decides a criminal appeal for the
appellant upon the assumption that the bill of exceptions is
properly before it, and the objection that the bill was not settled in time is first made by the Government's petition for rehearing, that court, exercising its broad authority under Rule No.
IV, may, in the interest of justice, refuse to strike the bill of exceptions and may approve the settlement and filing theretofore
had. P. 223.

Mr. Henry A. Schweinhaut, with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon and
Messrs. William W. Barron and W. Marvin Smith were
on the brief, for the United States.
No brief filed on behalf of Forte.

FORTE v. UNITED STATES.
220

Opinion of the Court.

PER CURIAM.

The case comes here on certified questions. 28 U. S.
C. 346.
Appellant was indicted for violation of the National
Motor Vehicle Theft Act, 41 Stat. 324, 18 U. S. C. 408.
He was convicted, sentenced, and on July 1, 1936, in due
time, took an appeal. On July 20, 1936, he filed an assignment of errors and a designation of record. On
that date, he also submitted a bill of exceptions by filing
it, not signed by the trial judge, with the clerk of the
court. At the same time, he gave notice of that filing
to the United States Attorney stating that he would
submit the bill of exceptions for settlement. Prior to
July 31, 1936, the bill of exceptions was "agreed upon"
by the United States Attorney and appellant's counsel.
On July 31, 1936, the trial judge was on vacation outside the District and was not to return until September.
He signed the bill of exceptions on September 2, 1936.
Below his signature appeared the statement "The foregoing bill of exceptions is satisfactory to the Government
and the defendant," signed by the attorneys for both
parties. There was no extension of time for the settlement of the bill of exceptions, which, together with the
assignment of errors, was transmitted to the clerk of
the Court of Appeals on September 9, 1936. Argument
was had in due course and on April 5, 1937, the Court
of Appeals decided that the judgment of the District Court
should be reversed. The errors assigned and argued on
the appeal involved solely the sufficiency of the evidence
as shown by the bill of exceptions.
The Court of Appeals granted a motion by the Government to stay the mandate and also a motion for rehearing "limited to the legal effect of the settlement of
the bill of exceptions on September 2, 1936, the appeal
having been perfected on July 1, 1936." The Government moved that the bill of exceptions be stricken and

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the judgment of the District Court be affirmed. The
Court of Appeals has certified the following questions:
"1. When, in a criminal case, a bill of exceptions has,
within thirty days after the taking of an appeal, been prepared, agreed to by counsel for the United States and the
appellant, and 'submitted' by filing the same with the
clerk of the District Court, but when the trial judge does
not settle and sign the bill within said thirty days, but
does settle and sign the same thereafter, is the bill of exceptions properly settled and signed?
"If question No. 1 is answered in the negative, then:
"2. When, in a criminal case, a bill of exceptions not
settled and signed by the trial judge within proper time,
but nevertheless actually settled and signed'by said judge,
is transmitted by the clerk of the District Court to the
clerk of the Court of Appeals, together with the assignment of errors and other pertinent papers, and when the
Court of Appeals hears the appeal upon errors assigned.
and arguea involving solely the sufficiency of the evidence
to sustain a verdict of guilty, and adjudges that the judgment of the District Court be reversed, and when thrbughout the appeal the United States raises no question as
to the validity of the bill of exceptions, and when question as to the validity of the bill of exceptions is for the
first time raised upon petition for rehearing by the United
States, and when on rehearing granted motion is made
by the United States to strike the bill of exceptions, must
the bill of exceptions be stricken?
"If question No. 2 is answered in the affirmative, then
"3. When, in a criminal case, the validity of the bill
of exceptions is for the first time raised on petition for
rehearing by the United States after the case has been
heard and reversed on appeal upon errors involving solely
the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain a verdict of guilty,
and when the Court of Appeals on rehearing granted and
motion to strike has stricken the bill of exceptions as not

FORTE v. UNITED STATES.
220

223

Opinion of the Court.

settled and signed within proper time, is it within the
power of the Court of Appeals then to make an order
extending the time for settlement and signing of the bill
of exceptions by the trial judge in order that the case
may be heard anew upon the merits?'
The bill of exceptions was not settled and filed in time.
Rule IX, Criminal Appeals Rules. The fact that the
trial judge was absent from the District was not an excuse.
The Criminal Appeals Rules provide in that case for
settlement by any other judge assigned to hold, or holding,
the court in which the case was tried.. Rule XIII. But
although the bill of exceptions was not settled and filed.
in time, the Court of Appeals, from the time of the filing
of the duplicate notice of appeal, had complete supervision and control of the proceedings on the appeal, including the proceedings relating to the preparation of the
record on appeal. Rule IV.
Under the comprehensive provisions of Rule IV, the
Court of Appeals may vacate or modify any order made
by the trial judge in relation to the prosecution of the
appeal and this authority extends to any order fixing
the time for the settlement and filing of a bill of exceptions. Ray v. United States, 301 U. S. 158, 163, 164.
The Court of Appeals may extend the time or shorten
the time. Through its supervision and control it may
correct any miscarriage of justice in respect to the settlement of the bill of exceptions. Neither party is remediless when such corrective action is required. To that
end, and in order to give a desirable flexibility, the rules
do not. attempt to lay down specific requirements to meet
various situations but place upon the Court of Appeals
full responsibility for the exercise of a reasonable control
over all the proceedings relating to the appeal. Ray v.
United States, supra.
In this instance, had the question been raised in limine,
the Court of Appeals would have had power to deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

mine what the interests of justice required and it lost
none of that power by reason of the fact that the question was not brought to its attention until the court had
heard argument and reached a decision upon the assumption that the bill of exceptions was properly before it.
As no question appears to have been raised as to the propriety or sufficiency of the bill of exceptions, apart from
the time of settlement and filing, it would be a mere idle
form to extend the time and return the bill of exceptions
for resettlement accordingly, which the Court of Appeals has power to do, and thus to have the same bill
of exceptions again presented and the case heard anew
upon the merits, and the court may, in its sound discretion refuse to strike the bill of exceptions and approve
the settlement and filing heretofore had.
Question No. 1 is answered "No". Question No. 2 is
answered "No". Question No. 3 is not answered.
It is so ordered.
FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. PINK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued November 17, 18, 1937.-Decided December 6, 1937.
1. Standard form of reinsurance contract, providing for insurance
i"against loss," and requiring reinsurer to pay its share of any loss
under the original insurance, and of costs &c. "upon proof of the
payment of such items by the reinsured, and upon delivery to the
reinsurer of copies of all essential documents concerned with such
loss and costs and the payment thereof,"-held to make payment
of loss by reinsured a condition precedent to reinsurer's liability.
Allemannia Insurance Co. v. Fireman's Insurance Co., 209 U. S. 326,
distinguished. P. 227.
2. Liability under a contract of reinsurance must be determined-upon
consideration of the words employed, read in the light of attending
circumstances. P. 229.

