OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY v. ATTORNEY
GENERAL
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-534. Decided December 27, 1974
Applicants, the Socialist Workers Party, its youth organization
(YSA), and various individuals, brought an action against various
Government officials for alleged interference in their political
activities and sought an injunction, which the District Court
granted, barring FBI agents and informants from attending or
otherwise monitoring the YSA national convention. Except for
upholding a bar against the FBI's transmitting to the Civil Service
Commission (CSC) the names of persons attending the convention, the Court of Appeals vacated the injunction, noting that the
convention was open to anyone under age 29 and that the only
investigative method would be the use of informants who would
attend meetings as the public would and that any "chilling effect"
on applicants' rights was not sufficient to outweigh prejudice to
the Government that compromising its informants would entail.
Applicants apply for a stay of the Court of Appeals' order and
reinstatement of the District Court's injunction. Held: Although,
unlike the situation in Laird v. Tatum, 408 U. S. 1, applicants'
allegations of a "chilling effect" are sufficiently specific to satisfy
Art. III's jurisdictional requirements, nevertheless a stay would be
improper, since the FBI has represented that it plans no disruptive activity at the convention and will not transmit information
to nongovernmental entities, and since interim relief against disclosure of delegates' names to the CSC has been granted.

MR. JusTIcE MARSHALL, Circuit Justice.
This case is before me on an application to stay an
order entered by a panel of the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, vacating in part an order of the District
Court for the Southern District of New York. The District Court had granted a preliminary injunction against
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY v. ATT'Y GENERAL 1315
1314

Opinion in Chambers

others, barring Government agents and informants from
attending or otherwise monitoring the national convention of the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA), to be held
in St. Louis, Mo., between December 28, 1974, and
January 1, 1975. Applicants also seek to have the
injunction of the District Court reinstated in full.
Applicants, the Socialist Workers Party, the YSA-the
party's youth organization-and several individuals, originally brought this action against various Government
officials, seeking injunctive and monetary relief for
alleged governmental interference in the political activities of the two organizations. In the course of preparing
for trial on the merits, the applicants apparently learned
that the FBI planned to monitor the YSA national convention and to use confidential informants to gain inforination about convention activities. They sought to
enjoin the FBI, its agents, and its informants from "attending, surveilling [sic], listening to, watching, or otherwise monitoring," the convention. After several hearings, the District Court granted the injunction in the
form requested by the plaintiffs. On an expedited
appeal,' the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court's
injunction in all respects except one: it barred the FBI
from transmitting the names of persons attending the
convention to the Civil Service Commission pending final
determination of the action. For the reasons stated
below, I have concluded that on the facts of this case,
the extraordinary relief of a stay is not warranted.
1 Applicants

object to the Court of Appeals' treatment of the case
as an appeal, after initially setting it as a motion for a stay. When
the time is as short as it was in this case, of course, the difference
between the two is very slight. The court's determination that the
District Court abused its discretion in ordering the injunction would
appear to meet the standard of review for either a stay or the
reversal of a preliminary injunction.

1316

OCTOBER TER-M, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

I
The applicants argue that a stay is necessary to protect the First Amendment speech and association rights
of those planning to attend the YSA convention. Surveillance and other forms of monitoring, they claim, will
chill free participation and debate, and may even discourage some from attending the convention altogether.
Beyond this, the applicants allege that the FBI has
admitted that its agents or informants "intend to participate in the convention debate posing as bona fide
YSA members." 2 This "double agent" activity, the
applicants claim, will result in "corruption of the democratic process" and consequent irreparable harm to the
applicants and others who would participate in the
convention.
The applicants further assert that granting the relief
requested here will not result in injury to the FBI. The
fact that the FBI has a duty to keep itself informed
concerning the possible commission of crimes, applicants
say, does not justify its permitting informants and agents
to participate in the convention, since the YSA has not
been shown to have engaged in illegal activities. They
further claim that the risk that FBI informants will become identifiable by their nonattendance at the convention is not sufficient to support the Court of Appeals'
2 Applicants argue that this admission, made after the District
Court's decision, significantly alters the balance of the equities in
this case. However, the Government has represented that no FBI
agents will attend the convention and that the informants who are
members of the YSA will participate in the convention only in a
manner consistent with their previous roles in the organization. The
Government assured both the Court of Appeals and me that the
FBI has authorized no disruptive activity at the YSA convention.
To require informants who may be active members of the organization to remain silent throughout the convention would render them
as readily identifiable in some cases as an order excluding them.

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY v. ATT'Y GENERAL
1314

1317

Opinion in Chambers

order. While the applicants' allegations evoke an unsavory picture of deceit and political sabotage, the facts
as characterized by the Court of Appeals suggest a less
sinister view of the Government's planned activities at the
convention. The court noted that the convention would
be open to anyone under the age of 29; that anyone could
register; that even the "delegated" sessions would be
open to anyone registered at the convention; that the Government planned no electronic surveillance or disruptive
activity; and that the only investigative method would
be the use of informants who would attend the meetings
just as any member of the public would be permitted
to do.
The Court of Appeals held that on the facts of this
case, the chilling effect on attendance and participation
at the convention was not sufficient to outweigh the
serious prejudice to the Government of permanently
compromising some or all of its informants. The 11thhour grant or denial of injunctive relief would not be
likely to have a significant effect on attendance at the
convention, the court stated, and since the convention
is to be open to the public and the press, the use of
informants to gather information would not appear to
increase appreciably the "chill" on free debate at the
convention. In weighing the nature of the planned
investigative activity, the justification for that activity,
and the claimed First Amendment infringement in this
case, the Court of Appeals determined that the balance
of the equities tipped in favor of the Government and
that a preliminary injunction was therefore improper.
II
This case presents a difficult threshold questionwhether the applicants have raised a justiciable controversy under this Court's decision in Laird v. Tatum, 408

1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

U. S. 1 (1972). In Laird, the plaintiffs protested surveillance activities by the Army that were in many ways
similar to those planned by the FBI in this case. The
Court held, however, that the plaintiffs' claim that the
Army's surveillance activities had a general chilling effect
on them was not sufficient to establish a case or controversy under Art. III of the Constitution.
The Government has contended that under Laird, a
"chilling effect" will not give rise to a justiciable controversy unless the challenged exercise of governmental
power is "regulatory, proscriptive, or compulsory in
nature," and the complainant is either presently or prospectively subject to the regulations, proscriptions, or
compulsions that he is challenging. Id., at 11. In my
view, the Government reads Laird too broadly. In the
passage relied upon by the Government, the Court was
merely distinguishing earlier cases, not setting out a
rule for determining whether an action is justiciable or
not. More apposite is the Court's observation in Laird
that the respondents' claim was
"that they disagree with the judgments made by
the Executive Branch with respect to the type and
amount of information the Army needs and that the
very existence of the Army's data-gathering system
produces a constitutionally impermissible chilling
effect upon the exercise of their First Amendment
rights." Id., at 13.
Because the "chilling effect" alleged by respondents in
Laird arose from their distaste for the Army's assumption
of a role in civilian affairs or from their apprehension
that the Army might at some future date "misuse the
information in some way that would cause direct harm
to [them]," ibid., the Court held the "chilling effect" allegations insufficient to establish a case or controversy.

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY v. ATTY GENERAL
1314

1319

Opinion in Chambers

In this case, the allegations are much more specific:
the applicants have complained that the challenged
investigative activity will have the concrete effects of
dissuading some YSA delegates from participating actively in the convention and leading to possible loss of
employment for those who are identified as being in
attendance. Whether the claimed "chill" is substantial
or not is still subject to question, but that is a matter
to be reached on the merits, not as a threshold jurisdictional question. The specificity of the injury claimed
by the applicants is sufficient, under Laird, to satisfy the
requirements of Art. III.
III
Although the applicants have established jurisdiction,
they have not, in my view, made out a compelling case
on the merits. I cannot agree that the Government's
proposed conduct in this case calls for a stay, which,
given the short life remaining to this controversy, would
amount to an outright reversal of the Court of Appeals.
It is true that governmental surveillance and infiltration cannot in any context be taken lightly. The dangers inherent in undercover investigation are even more
pronounced when the investigative activity threatens to
dampen the exercise of First Amendment rights. See
DeGregory v. New Hamp. Atty. Gen., 383 U. S. 825
(1966); Gibson v. FloridaLegislative Comm., 372 U. S.
539 (1963); NAACP v. Alabama, 357 U. S. 449 (1958).
But our abhorrence for abuses of governmental investigative authority cannot be permitted to lead to an indiscriminate willingness to enjoin undercover investigation
of any nature, whenever a countervailing First Amendment claim is raised.
In this case, the Court of Appeals has analyzed the
competing interests at some length, and its analysis
seems to me to compel denial of relief. As the court

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

pointed out, the nature of the proposed monitoring is
limited, the conduct is entirely legal, and if relief were
granted, the potential injury to the FBI's continuing
investigative efforts would be apparent. Moreover, as to
the threat of disclosure of names to the Civil Service
Commission, the Court of Appeals has already granted
interim relief. On these facts, I am reluctant to upset
the judgment of the Court of Appeals.3
As noted above, the Government has stated that it has
not authorized any disruptive activity at the convention.
In addition, the Government has represented that it has
no intention of transmitting any information obtained at
the convention to nongovernmental entities such as
schools or employers. I shall hold the Government to
both representations as a condition of this order. Accordingly, the application to stay the order of the Court of
Appeals and to reinstate the injunction entered by the
District Court is
Denied.

3 This is especially true where, as here, the matter before me involves a preliminary injunction granted without a full hearing on the
merits. Much of the information before me is in dispute. The denial of the stay in this case in no way affects the outcome of the case
on the merits, which was filed in 1973 and is still pending in the

District Court.

