1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

EHRLICHMAN v. SIRICA ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-93.

Decided August 28, 1974

Application for stay of District Court's order setting applicant's
criminal trial date, on alleged grounds that pretrial publicity
precluded applicant's receiving a fair trial in the venue at the
time set and that he lacks sufficient time to prepare his defense,
is denied. The responsibility for passing on a claim for a change
of venue or delay in a trial because of prejudicial pretrial publicity
calls for the exercise of the highest order of sound judicial discretion by the District Court, and doubts about the correctness
of the order, particularly after the Court of Appeals has reviewed
it and denied mandamus, do not constitute sufficient basis for
contrary action by an individual Circuit Justice absent the most
extraordinary circumstances. Denial of the application here indicates no view on the issues presented, and any errors in the
exercise of discretion in resolving those issues are subject to
appellate review.

Circuit Justice.
This application comes before me as Circuit Justice
for a stay of the District Judge's order setting trial for
September 30, 1974, of United States v. Mitchell, D. C.
Crim. No. 74-110. Defendant Ehrlichman seeks this
stay alleging that past and continuing prejudicial publicity has made it impossible for him to receive a fair
trial in this venue at the time now set, and that he will
not have sufficient time to prepare his defense.
The trial had been set for September 9, 1974. When
both the prosecution and defense asked for more time
to prepare for trial the District Court denied the requests,
and applicant, inter alia, petitioned for a writ of mandamus from the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit to delay the trial. That
court, sitting en banc, did not rule directly on the petition,
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

EHRLICHMAN v. SIRICA
1310

Opinion in Chambers

but instead remanded and recommended that the District
Judge consider delaying the trial three or four weeks so
all parties would have more time to prepare; one judge
based his concurrence on prejudicial publicity as well.
The District Judge then ordered the trial to be deferred
for three weeks from September 9, 1974.
The present application is presented to me, as Circuit
Justice for the District of Columbia Circuit, to delay the
start of the trial until January 1975. The application
puts forth the same reasons as were before the Court of
Appeals. The United States has filed a response opposing any further delay.
The function of a Circuit Justice in these circumstances
is limited.

It does not ordinarily encompass overseeing

pretrial orders in pending criminal prosecutions. Such
matters are essentially within the sound judicial discretion of the trial judge who must be presumed to be intimately aware of the case at hand and other factors
which bear upon the relief sought. Frohwerk v. United
States, 249 U. S. 204 (1919); Goldsby v. United States,
160 U. S. 70 (1895); Isaacs v. United States, 159 U. S.
487 (1895).
The limited power of a court of appeals, whether by
way of mandamus or in its supervisory function over
trial courts, must be looked to as the primary source of
relief since such courts are in closer touch with the facts
and factors presented in the workings of the regular
activities of the district courts within a circuit.
Here the Court of Appeals has denied mandamus relief, but exercised something in the nature of a de facto
supervisory function by remanding the issue to the District Court with intimations that some delay would be
appropriate. It is only a coincidence that the location
of this trial is in the same city as the seat of this Court,
giving Members of this Court essentially the same ex-

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

posure as that of the trial judge and the Court of Appeals
to the pretrial publicity which forms a partial basis for
the relief requested. Except for cases coming from the
District of Columbia Circuit, a Justice of this Court is
ordinarily far removed from the setting of the trial.
General principles about the function of a Circuit Justice
in a situation of this kind are not to be formed from such
a unique setting. An individual Circuit Justice does not
possess the supervisory powers of a court of appeals
concerning the activities of the district courts within its
circuit.
One course open in this setting and in light of the
gravity of the claim of prejudicial pretrial publicity
would be to refer this application to the full Court for
action at the opening of the October 1974 Term on October 7. However, this in itself would defer starting of the
trial to at least sometime in the latter half of October
since neither party would be expected to go to trial immediately following this Court's action. To follow this
course would have the operative effect of an additional
stay of three or four weeks, assuming denial of the relief
requested.
The responsibility for passing on a claim for change of
venue or delay in a trial because of prejudicial pretrial
publicity calls for the exercise of the highest order of
sound judicial discretion by the District Court. Doubts
about the correctness of a district court decision fixing
a trial date in these circumstances, particularly after the
Court of Appeals has reviewed the matter and denied an
application for mandamus, are not sufficient to form a
basis for contrary action by an individual Circuit Justice.
The District Court bears responsibility commensurate
with its authority in such matters, and only in the most
extraordinary circumstances should an individual Circuit
Justice intervene.

EHRLICHMAN v. SIRICA
1310

1313

Opinion in Chambers

The application for a stay is therefore denied, but this
action is not to be taken as intimating any view whatever on the issues presented by the order of the District
Court or the action of the Court of Appeals. The resolution of these issues should they arise after verdict must
await the normal appellate processes. Sheppard v. Maxwell, 384 U. S. 333, 362 (1966).
Application denied.

