NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES v. BRENNAN

1321

Opinion in Chambers

NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES ET AL.

V.

BRENNAN, SECRETARY OF LABOR
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-553. Decided December 31, 1974
Applicant States, municipalities, and others, which have brought
suit challenging the constitutionality of the 1974 Amendments to
the Fair Labor Standards Act, request, inter alia, a stay of provisions that go into effect January 1, 1975, following the District
Court's denial of a preliminary injunction and dismissal of the
complaint, which the court characterized as involving "a difficult
and substantial question of law." In view of various factors,
including that court's concern, the pervasive impact of its judgment on all state and municipal governments, and the brevity of
time, an order is entered granting the requested relief until the
application can be presented to the full Court at the earliest
convenient date.
See: 406 F. Supp. 826.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

Circuit Justice.

This matter came to me as an individual Circuit
Justice for the District of Columbia Circuit after the
close of regular business hours of this Court on Tuesday,
December 31, 1974, on a motion of the above-named
applicants, States and municipalities, the National League
of Cities, and the National Governors' Conference.
The application of said parties requests a stay of those
parts of the 1974 Amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act, Pub. L. 93-259, 88 Stat. 55, amending 29
U. S. C. ยง 201 et seq., which go into effect January 1,
1975, a stay of the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor, 29 CFR Part 553, 39 Fed. Reg. 44142,
Employees of Public Agencies Engaged in Fire Protection
or Law Enforcement Activities, including security personnel in correctional institutions of said States and
municipalities, and an injunction against enforcement by

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

the Secretary of Labor. or by any other person in any
federal court, to enforce parts of the said 1974 Amendments to the above-described Act, which went into effect
May 1, 1974.
The above-entitled case was filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia on December 12, 1974. A three-judge District Court was convened and on Monday, December 30, 1974, heard arguments on plaintiffs' and plaintiff intervenors' (all of
whom, except for plaintiff intervenor State of California,
are applicants on this application) application for a preliminary injunction. Earlier today an order was entered,
denying a preliminary injunction and dismissing the complaint in the above-entitled action.
The three-judge District Court in denying the relief
on the day after it heard arguments expressed the view
that the complaint raised "a difficult and substantial
question of law" but concluded that it was bound by
this Court's holding in Maryland v. Wirtz, 392 U. S. 183
(1968).
In light of the pervasive impact of the judgment of the
District Court on every state and municipal government
in the United States, the novelty of the legal questions
presented, the expressed concern of the District Court
as to the substantiality of the constitutional questions
raised, the brevity of time available to the District Court
and to me as Circuit Justice, and the extent and nature of
the injury to the applicants, it is not appropriate to take
final action as an individual Justice.
Against this background, and balancing the injury to
the contemplated enforcement of the regulations by the
Secretary, against the injury to the applicants if they
are ultimately successful, and sharing the doubts and
concerns articulated by the District Court, I am not prepared-less than five hours before the regulations of the

NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES v. BRENNAN
1321

1323

Opinion in Chambers

Secretary become effective-to do more than enter an
interim order granting the relief prayed for until the
application can be presented to the full Court at the
earliest convenient date. At that time the entire matter
can be considered with the benefit of a response from
the Solicitor General on behalf of the Secretary.
Accordingly, an order will be entered forthwith, granting the relief prayed for until further order of the Court
and referring the application to the full Court.
The Solicitor General has been directed to file any
response he desires to make on or before Wednesday,
January 8, 1975.

