ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Syllabus.

obtained by the Comptoir drawing its draft upon New York or
upon its home office, and a large part of the business of the
Comptoir was in selling foreign exchange, but we cannot perceive that the transaction between the parties was any the less
a loan because of the source from which the money was obtained.
We find nothing in the requirements of the Federal Constitution or the statutes of the State of Louisiana, as construed
by its Supreme Court, which should exempt such property
from bearing its burden of taxation for the public benefit. It
follows that the Circuit Court erred in holding otherwise and
in granting a perpetual injunction.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.

ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
APPEAL FROU THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 66. Argued November 10, 1903.-Decided December 7, 1903.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked on the ground of diverse
citizenship it will not be held to rest also on the ground that the suit arose
underthe Constitution of the United Statesunless it really andsubstantially'
involves a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the
Constitution upon the determination of which the result depends, and
which appears on the record by a statement in legal and logical form
such as good pleading requires; and where the case is not brought within
this rule the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
Where the constitutionality of a police regulation of a State is conceded,
the construction placed thereon, and prosecutions commenced in view of
such construction thereunder, by an officer of the State in the discharge
of his duty, do not in themselves constitute a deprivation of property
without due process of law, a denial of equal protection of the law by the
State, or any direct interference with interstate commerce, and afford no
ground for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Court of the
United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

T Is was a bill filed by Arbuckle Brothers against Joseph E.
Blackburn, as Dairy and Food Commissioner of the State of
Ohio, to restrain him from certain action on his part as such
officer, including prosecutions for violation of pure food laws
of the State.
After a jurisdictional clause setting forth diversity of citizenship, the bill averred that by an act of the general assembly of
the State of Ohio, passed in the year 1884, entitled "An act to
provide against the adulteration of food and drugs," as
amended by an act passed in the year 1890, entitled "An
act to amend section 3 of an act entitled 'An act to provide
against the adulteration of food and drugs,' passed March 20,
1884," which act was still in full force and virtue, it was provided that no person should, within the State of Ohio, manufacture for sale, offer for sale, or sell any article of food which
was adulterated within the meaning of said act, and that the
term "food" used therein should include all articles used for
food or drink by man, whether simple, mixed or compound.
That it was further provided that food should be deemed
adulterated "(1) If any substance or substances have been
mixed with it, so as to lower or depreciate, or injuriously affect
its quality, strength or purity; (2) If any inferior or cheaper
substance or substances have been substituted wholly or in
part for it; (3) If any valuable or necessary constituent or
ingredient has been wholly or in part abstracted from it;
(4) If it is an imitation of, or is sold under the name of, another
article; (5) If it consists wholly, or in part, of a diseased, decomposed, putrid, infected, tainted or rotten animal or vegetable substance or article, whether manufactured or not-or,
in the case of milk, if it is the product of a diseased animal;
(6) If it is colored, coated, polished or powdered, whereby
damage or inferiority is concealed, or if by any means it is
made to appear better or of greater value than it really is;
(7) If it contains any added substance or ingredient which is
poisonous or injurious to health; provided, that the provisions
of this act shall not apply to mixtures or compounds recog-

ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

nized as ordinary articles or ingredients of articles of food, if
each and every package sold or offered for sale be distinctly
labeled as mixtures or compounds, with the name and per cent
of each ingredient therein, and are not injurious to health."
The bill alleged that for more than thirty years complainants
and their predecessors had been engaged, and still were, in the
manufacture and sale throughout the United States, including
the State of Ohio, a certain compound or mixture known as
Ariosa, composed of roasted coffee compounded and mixed
with eggs and sugar, whereby the separate beans were coated,
and to a large extent hermetically sealed after roasting with a
compound of sugar and eggs, the original strength and aroma
of the coffee being thus preserved and deterioration prevented;
that the coffee, eggs and sugar were each "a common, healthy
and unobjectionable article of food;" that Ariosa had acquired
great reputation, and the good will of the business of its manufacture and sale had become very valuable; that it was sold
in Ohio in packages, each of which, in compliance with the laws
of Ohio in respect to the adulteration of food, was distinctly
labeled with a printed statement of the precise composition
and the proportion of each of the ingredients of the article.
And it was charged that, notwithstanding these facts, defendant as dairy and food commissioner of Ohio had notified
complainants that he considered Ariosa, as put up by them,
an adulteration; that he had issued a circular letter to dealers
and vendors wrongfully asserting that complainants in the
manufacture and sale thereof refused to abide by the laws of
Ohio in that behalf; and that he proposed to institute prosecutions to prevent and punish its sale or offer for sale in Ohio.
By the sixteenth paragraph of the bill it was averred that
"said statute, construed as respondent claims it should be, is
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and void, in that it would deprive
complainants of their aforesaid property," and would deny
them "equal protection of the law."
And by the seventeenth paragraph it was averred that Ariosa

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

191 U. S.

was shipped to and sold in Ohio in original packages, " and said
statute, if construed as the respondent herein claims it should
be, is a regulation by the said State of Ohio of interstate commerce, and is repugnant to, and in violation of, the third clause
of section eight of article one of the Constitution of the United
States, and void."
That if "respondent be permitted to commit the threatened
wrongs, the same will, as complainants are informed and believe, damage complainants to the extent of more than $100,000,
an amount largely in excess of respondent's ability to respond
in judgment."
The prayer was that the commissioner be restrained from
charging that Aiiosa was an article of food adulterated within
the meaning of the statute, and that the use of the process of
coating and glazing the coffee with the preparation of sugal
and eggs and the importation and sale constituted violations
of thi statute; from threatening dealers with prosecution; and
from instituting or commencing prosecutions.
The case came on to be heard on complainants' application
for a preliminary injunction and was submitted on pleadings
and evidence, whereupon the Circuit Court entered a decree
denying the injunction and dismissing the bill, which decree
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 113-Fed. Rep.
616, and the case was then brought here by appeal.
Mr. John DeWitt Warner, with whom Mr. Clarence Brown
was on the brief, for appellants:
The court had jurisdiction. § 720, Rev.-Stat. does not apply
as the threatened prosecutions had not been commenced when
the bill was filed. Rhodes Co. v. New Hampshire, 70 Fed. Rep.
721; Live-Stock Dealers' & Butchers' Assn. v. Crescent City Live
Stock Landing & Slaughterhouse Co., 1 Abb. (U. S.) 388, 404,
407; Fed. Cas. No. 8408; Fisk v. Railroad Co., 10 Blatchf. 518;
Fed. Cas. No. 4830; Louisiana v. Lagarde, 60 Fed. Rep. 186,
193; Yick Wo v. Crowley, 26 Fed. Rep. 207.
This suit is not against the State of Ohio within the intend-

ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

ment of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. Scottv. Donald, 165 U. S..58; Tindal v. Wesley,
167 U. S. 204; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myall, 98 Fed.
Rep. 335; Railway Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866-871; Fitts v.
McGhee, 172 U. S. 516; Union Pac. R. Co. v. Alexander, 113
Fed. Rep. 347; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Prout v. Starr,
188 U. S. 537; Cent. Trust Co. v. Citizens Street Ry. Co., 80 Fed.
Rep. 218; 225; Louisiana v. Lagarde, 60 Fed. Rep. 186; L. &
N. R. Co. v. Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 946, and cases cited.
In defence of property rights, and when justified by equitable
considerations, courts of equity may enjoin criminal prosecution. Snell, Principles of Equity, 12th ed. 648 (Lond. 1898);
High on Injunction, ed. 1890, § 68; Lord Auckland v. Westminster Local Board of Works, L. R. Ch. App. Cas. VII, 597;
Atlanta v. Light Co., 71 Georgia, 106; Mobile v. L. & N. R. R.
Co., 84 Alabama, 115; Birmingham v. Alabama, G. S. R. R. Co.,
98 Alabama, 134; R. R. Co. v. Attala, 118 Alabama, 362; Dinsmore v. Board of Police, 12 Abb. N. C. 436; Manhattan Iron
Works v. French, 12 Abb. N. C. 446.
This jurisdiction has been frequently exercised by the Federal
courts in restraint of state officials (as well as others) from both
civil and criminal prosecutions in state (as well as other) courts.
Central Trust Co. v. Citizens St. R. Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 218;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Myall, 98 Fed. Rep. 335; Minneapolis Brewing Co. v. McGillivray, 104 Fed. Rep. 258; U. P.
R. R. Co. v. Alexander, 113 Fed. Rep. 347; L. & N. R. Co. v.
Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 946; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204;
State of Louisiana v. Lagarde, 60 Fed. Rep. 186; Donald
v. Scott, 67 Fed. Rep. 854; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Wong
Wai v. Williamson, 103 Fed. Rep. 1; Jew Ho v. Williamson, 103
Fed. Rep. 10; Express Co. v. Mayor, 116 Fed. Rep. 756, and
cases cited; Wallace v. R. R. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 422; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466.
The bill sets forth causes of action justifying the relief asked.
Defendant's circulars and threats of prosecution are in themselves cause of action. Farquaharv. Nat. Harrow Co., 102

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

191 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 714, and numerous cases cited on p. 715; Adriance
v. Nat. Harrow Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 827; Hutchinson v. Beckham,
118 Fed. Rep. 399.
The construction of a statute is not a matter of discretion.
Defendant-respondent is left equally unprotected, whether by
a void statute (if his construction is correct), or by the fact (if
his construction is wrong) that the law is not such as he assumes it to be.
Defendant is utterly mistaken in the construction he claims
for the Ohio statute, under color of which his threats are made
-Ariosa being within the saving clause, and not within the
prohibition of such statute. White v. Ohio, 12 Ohio N. P. 659.
To justify acts thereunder as within the police powers of the
State, the construction of the statute permitting or requiring
such acts must be-(a) The proper and legal construction of
such statute; and (b) Such as subserve some public end justifying the exercise of such police powers. As to the latter see
Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; In re Marshall, 102 Fed. Rep. 323;
Black on Interpretation, 304.
(c) Properly construed, the Ohio statute in question is no
protection to respondent; and (d) Respondent's erroneous construction is as utterly futile as a defence here, as can possibly
be the statute itself were its effect such as he claims. PreDigested Food Co. v. McNeal, Dairy Comm'r, 4 Ohio S. & C. P.
Dec. 456.
The statute in question, if construed as respondent claimsand in any case his such construction-is unconstitutional and
of no protection to him. It interferes with intgrstate commerce. Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
Where serious wrong cannot otherwise be righted, equity
will neither hesitate to exercise its jurisdiction to the full extent
of its scope, nor be nice to seek reasons why it should not do so.
Exp. Co. v. Mayor &c., 116 Fed. Rep. 756; NiagaraIns. Co. v.
Cornell, 110 Fed. Rep. 816, and cases cited supra.
Eggs, sugar and coffee, each being an ordinary and healthful
ingredient of food, any citizen of Ohio has a right to sell, pur-

ARBUCKLE o. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

chase or use either, in any shape he sees fit. It is no business of
the State how much he values each, the proportion in which he
shall mix them, or the manner in which he shall prepare, drink,
or otherwise use them. If he chooses to buy them, compounded or mixed, or, if the prosecution prefer, "aggregated,"
as Ariosa, he has a right to do so. Dorsey v. Texas, 40 L. R. A.

(Texas) 201.
Mr. Edmond B. Dillon, with whom Mr. Roscoe J. Maucc
was on the brief, for appellee:
There are but two cases exactly in point. Williams v. McNeal,
7 C. C. 280; PreDigested Food Co. v. McNeal, Commissioner,
1 Ohio N. P. 266, both sustain the appellee.
This is really a suit against the State. Cunninghamv. R. R.
Co., 109 U. S. 446; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
There is no distinction in this case between patented and
unpatented articles. Palmerv. State, 39 Ohio St. 236, and
cases cited; Pattersonv. Kentucky, 7 Otto, 501.
The statute is constitutional. Cooley's Const. Lim. 3d ed.
168; Com. v. Huntley, 156 Massachusetts, 236; Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, reaffirmed in Schollenberger v.
Pennsylvania,171 U. S. 1; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.
461.
The general food act of Ohio is copied verbatim from a New
York statute which, in turn, is copied from a statute of Victoria.
The law has stood the test of scores of courts in this country
and in England. In Ohio this act has been approved by the
Supreme Court in the following cases: State v. Cap. City Dairy
Co., 62 Ohio St. 350; Palmerv. State, 39 Ohio St. 236; Meyer v.
State, 54 Ohio St. 242; State v. Kelly, 54 Ohio St. 166; State v.
Dreber, 54 Ohio St. 115; State v. Ruedy, 57 Ohio St. 224; Hutchinson v. State, 56 Ohio St. 82. See Gundling v. Chicago, 177
U. S. 183.
The statute does not interfere improperly with interstate
commerce. Cases cited, supra; Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196; Kimmish v. Pennsylvania, 129 U. S. 217; Patterson

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

v. Kentucky, 7 Otto, 501; Hinsonv. Lott, 8 Wall. 148; Turner v.
Maryland,107 U. S. 38.

A court will not interfere in cases where the executive is
merely exercising his judgment as to the guilt or innocence of
a citizen by causing the arrest or refusing to cause the arrest
of any citizen for alleged violation of a valid criminal statute.
Peraultv. Rand, 10 Hun, 222; Judges v. People, 18 Wendell, 79,
99.

There are cases which hold that the legislature itself cannot
invest the judicial department of the government with authority to assume jurisdiction over legislative or executive departments. Sterling v. Doake, 29 Ohio St. 457; State v. Nichols, 26
Arkansas, 74; State v. Sloss, 25 Missouri, 291; Attorney General
v. Brown, 1 Wisconsin, 513; Haley v. Clark, 26 Alabama, 439;
Smith v. Myers, 109 Indiana, 1; Cunningham v. R. R. Co., 109
U. S. 446; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 103; Gaines Y. Thompson, 7
Wall. 347; Comm. of Patents v. Whitiley, 4 Wall. 522.
The interference of the courts with the performance of the
ordinary duties of the executive department would be productive of nothing but mischief. United States v. Seaman, 17 How.
225; United States v. Guthry, 17 How. 284; United States v.
Commissioner, 5 Wall. 563; Litchfield v. Register, 9 Wall. 576;
Georgiav. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50; Mississippiv. Johnson, 4 Wall.
475; Cohen v. Commissioners, 77 N. Car. 2; Fickle v. Commissioners, 66 How. Pr. 318; Hinton v. Sheriff, 46 Georgia, 350;
Chicago v. Wright, 69 Illinois, 318; R. R. Co. v. DeGraaf, 27
Minnesota, 1; Osborne v. Bank. 9 Wheat. 738; Spelling on
Extraordinary Relief, § 625, 628.
The action is forbidden by § 720, U. S. Rev. Stat. The
cases cited by appellant are inapplicable and can be distinguished from this case.
MR. CHIEF JusTicD FULLER, after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that this appeal must be dismissed, because

ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was "dependent entirely
upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being . .
citizens of different States," and the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was final. Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517,

§6.
The Circuit Courts have "original cognizance, concurrent
with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of two thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall
be made, under their authority, . . . or in which there
shall be a controversy between citizens of different States, in
which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and
Act of March 3,
costs, the sum or value aforesaid, . . ."
25 Stat. 433,
1888,
13,
August
of
1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373; Act
c. 866.
In the present case the Circuit Court had jurisdiction on the
ground of diverse citizenship, but it is now contended that
jurisdiction also rested on the ground that the suit was one
arising under the Constitution of the United States.
The rule is firmly established that a suit does not s9 arise
unless it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution,
upon the determination of which the result depends, and which
appears on the record by a statement in legal and logical form
such as is required in good pleading. Defiance Water Company v. City of Defiance, ante, p. 184, and cases cited.
The averments of this bill did not bring the case within that
rule for they put forward no existing controversy as to the
effect or construction of the Constitution, on which the relief
depended, and set up no right which might be defeated or
sustained according to such construction.
By the laws of Ohio the office of Dairy and Food Commissioner was created, and it was made the duty of that officer
to attend to the eniorcement of all the laws against fraud and

OCTOBER TERM[, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

adulteration or impurities in food, drink, or drugs; to appoint
assistant commissioners; and to employ such experts, chemists,
agents, inspectors and counsel as he might deem necessary for
the proper enforcement of the laws; and it was also made his
duty to inspect any articles made or offered for sale as articles
of food or drink, and to prosecute, or cause to be prosecuted,
any person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations engaged in the manufacture or sale of any article of food
or drink adulterated in violation of any laws of the State. 1
Bates' Ohio Statutes (1897), p. 262, Tit. III, c. 18.
By the act of 1884, as amended in 1890, and set out in the
bill, it was provided, among other things, that food should be
deemed adulterated "if it is colored, coated, polished or powdered, whereby damage or inferiority is concealed, or if by any
means it is made to appear better or of greater value than it
really is." 2 Bates' Ohio Statutes (1897), p.2229, Tit. V, ch. A.
The proviso excepted mixtures and compounds, recognized as
ordinary articles of food, not injurious to health, and labeled
as required.
It is not asserted that this police regulation is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, but it is said that
when the commissioner, in the discharge of his duty under the
law, reached the conclusion that the coating of Ariosa with a
glaze of sugar and eggs was calculated to conceal damage or
inferiority, and to make the article appear better or of greater
value than it really was, and that the article was not a compound or mixture, and proposed to prosecute, he thereby construed the act in a way, which, if his construction were correct,
would render it unconstitutional.
But these were findings of fact which resulted in bringing
the article within the prohibition and excluded it from the
proviso, and neither findings nor prosecutions would in themselves constitute a deprivation of property, or a denial of the
equal protection of the law, by the State, or any direct interference with interstate commerce, and the constitutionality of
the statute was conceded.

ARBUCKLE v. BLACKBURN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The suggested controversy was purely hypothetical and based
the supposed constitutional objections on the contingency that,
on issues of fact, it might be judicially determined that Ariosa
came within the statute, which complainants denied.
If the commissioner's conclusions were erroneous, the courts
were open for the correction of the error, and the possibility
that they might agree with the commissioner could not be laid
hold of as tantamount to an actual controversy as to the effect
of the Constitution, on the determination of which the result
of the present suit depended. Indeed, in the only case called
to our attention by counsel involving the status of Ariosa, the
Court of Common Pleas of Lucas County, Ohio, held that it
was not within the prohibition of the statute. White v. Ohio,
12 Ohio Nisi Prius Decisions, 659.
Reference to the Constitution to strengthen objections to a
particular construction, or the pursuit of a certain course of
conduct, is not sufficient to invoke jurisdiction. Whatever
grounds of equity interposition may have existed here, and we
express no opinion on that subject, the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court as a court of the United States depended alone
on diverse citizenship. If the allegation of that fact had been
omitted from the bill, the jurisdiction could not have been
maintained.
Appeal dismissed.
MR.

JusTIcE

DAY

took no part in the disposition of the case.

