HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by their removal accordingly, might have had, under all the
circumstances, on the question of prospective damages should
not have been excluded from the jury.
We are of opinion that the instruction as given was erroneous,
and as it was definite and peremptory in its terms, and as it
cannot be said that the jury were not influenced, and perhaps
controlled, by it, we hold the error fatal to the judgment. As
there must be a new trial we refrain from discussing the suggestions in respect of the acceptance of the deed by the company, a subject much considered in Willard v. Wood, 135 U. S.
309; S. C., 164 U. S. 502, and the discharge of the alleged
covenant, made below, but not pressed in argument here.
Reversed and remanded with directions to reverse the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Districtand order a new trial.
MR. JusTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE McKENNA

dissented.

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 38. Submitted October 22,1903.-Decided November 10, 1903.
Appeals to this court from decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals revising
proceedings of the inferior courts of bankruptcy under section 24b of the
bankruptcy law, will not lie.

Two separate proceedings were commenced in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Washington, on
January 19, 1901, against D. N. Holden and Lizzie Holden, to
the end that each be adjudicated a bankrupt, which were consolidated, and on the ensuing twenty-fifth of February they
were, respectively, so adjudicated. The creditors of each of
the bankrupts were the same.
Thereupon J. A. Stratton was duly elected trustee in bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

ruptoy of the estate of each of the bankrupts and qualified as
such. The bankrupts, and each of them, applied for exemption
in their favor of two certain policies of life insurance in the
hands of the trustee. D. N. Holden was insured, and Lizzie
Holden was the beneficiary, in both, with the provision that
if she should not survive him, payment should be made to his
executors, administrators and assigns.
The exemption was disallowed by the referee, who reported
his action to the court. The bankrupts filed exceptions to
the report, and the court on July 16, 1901, set it aside and
adjudged the policies to be exempt. Stratton then filed a
petition in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
for a revision of this order. It was therein alleged among
other things that the policies had a present cash surrender
value combined of about twenty-two hundred dollars. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, accepting the ruling of that court in
the previous case of In re Scheld, 104 Fed. Rep. 870, held that
the policies were not exempt, and decreed a revision of the
order of the District Court accordingly. 113 Fed. Rep. 141.
From this decree an appeal was prayed to this court and allowed February 12, 1902, and the record was filed here April 14,
1902. And subsequently a certificate of a justice of this court
was filed herein that in his opinion the determination of the
questions involved was essential to a uniform construction of
the bankruptcy act throughout the United States.
The appeal was submitted on a motion to dismiss, and also
on the merits.
Mr. George Turner and Mr. P. P. Carroll for appellants.
Mr. Fredeck Bausman for appellees.
MR. CrEfF JUsTICE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be perceived that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was invoked on an original petition under see-

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion 24b of the bankruptcy law, which provides: "The several
Circuit Courts of Appeal shall have jurisdiction in equity,
either interlocutory or final, to superintend and revise in matter of law the proceedings of the several inferior courts of
bankruptcy within their jurisdiction. Such power shall be
exercised on due notice and petition by any party aggrieved."
This supervisory jurisdiction in matter of law was conferred
on the Circuit Courts by the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 517,
518, c. 176, ยง 2; Rev. Stat. ยง 4986, and it was settled under that
act that appeals to this court did not lie frbm the decisions of
the Circuit Courts in the exercise of that jurisdiction. Morgan
v. Thornhill, 11 Wall. 65; Conro v. Crane, 94 U. S. 441. The
ruling is decisive here unless the present act elsewhere otherwise provides. But this it does not do, the special and summary character of the revision contemplated being substantially the same as in the prior act, and the provision for appeals
not embracing appeals from decrees in revision.
Section 25a, 30 Stat. 544, c. 541, July 1, 1898, provides
"that appeals, as in equity cases, may be taken in bankruptcy
proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the United States, and to the Supreme Court of
the Territories, in the following cases, to wit, (1) from a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt; (2) from a judgment granting or denying a discharge;
and (3) from a judgment allowing or rejecting a debt or claim
of five hundred dollars or over."
And section 25b for appeals to this court "from any final
decision of a Court of Appeals, allowing or rejecting a claim
under this act," where the amount in controversy exceeds the
sum of two thousand dollars, and the question involved was
one which might have been taken from the highest court of a
State to the Supreme Court of the United States; or where
some justice of the Supreme Court certifies that "in his opinion
the determination of the question or questions involved in the
allowance or rejection of such claim is essential to a uniform
construction of this act throughout the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
I Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

This case was not taken fo the Court of Appeals by appeal,
as in equity cases, to be refxamined on the facts as well as the
law, nor could it have been, for it was not one of the cases
enumerated in section 25a. The order of the Circuit Court
was not "a judgment allowing or rejecting a debt or claim of
five hundred dollars or over," or the revising order of the Circuit Court of Appeals, "a final decision, allowing or rejecting
a claim," within the intent and meaning of either subdivision a
or b. By section 2, subd. 2, courts of bankruptcy are vested
with the power to""allow claims, disallow claims, reconsider
allowed or disallowed claims, and allow or disallow them against
bankruipt estates;" and section fifty-seven comprehensively
covers the subject of the proof and allowance of claims, treating them as moneyed demands.
And while the word "claim" is used in its signification of the
demand or assertion of a right in subd. 11 of section 2, in respect of "all claims of bankrupts to their exemptions," it is also
used in many parts of the act, and, as we think, in section 25,
as referring to debts, (which by sub-see. 11 of section 1 include
"any debt, demand or claim provable in bankruptcy,") presented for proof against estates in bankruptcy. Hutchinsonv.
Otis, 190 U. S. 552, 555; In re Whitener, 105 Fed. Rep. 180; In
re Columbia Rear Estate Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 643, 645.
The allowance or rejection of a debt or claim is a part of the
bankruptcy proceedings, and not an independent suit, and
under the act of 1867 it was held that this court had no jurisdiction to review judgments of the Circuit Courts dealing with
the action of the District Courts in such allowance or rejection because they were not final. Wiswall v. Campbell, 93
U. S. 347; Leggett v. Allen, 110 U. S. 741. The jurisdiction
now given is carefully restricted and cannot be expanded beyond the letter of the grant. It is an exception to the general
rule as to appeals and writs of error obtaining from the foundation of our judicial system. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661.
The distinction between steps in bankruptcy proceedings
proper and controversies arising out of the settlement of the

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK v. BUFORD.

119

Syllabus.

11 U. S.

estates of bankrupts is recognized in sections 23, 24 and 25 of
the present act, and the provisions as to revision in matter of
law and appeals were framed and must I-e construed in view
of that distinction.

Denver First National Bank v. Klug, 186

U. S. 202; Elliott v. Toeppner, 187 U. S. 327, 333, 334.
Section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, has no application, as
that refers to cases carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals by
appeal or writ of error. But in view of the terms of that act
and of the nature of the writ, we have held that under a reasonable construction of subdivision d of section 25, certiorari
lies to decrees in revision. Bryan v. Bernhimer, 175 U. S. 724;
S. C., 181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, 180 U. S. 640; S. C.,
184 U. S. 1; Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 181 U. S. 620;

S. C., 184 U. S. 18. In the case first cited it is pointed out that
the Circuit Court of Appeals treated the case as if before it on
a petition for revision though it had been carried there by appeal, and we considered the decree as rendered in the exercise
of the supervisory power. 181 U. S. 192, 193.
Appeal dismissed.

CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK OF MEMPHIS v.,
BUFORD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH,
CIRCUIT.
No. 60. Argued November 6, 1903.-Decided November 1,1903.

On every writ of error or appeal the first and fundamental question is that
of jurisdiction, first of this court and then of the court from which the
record comes, and such a question arising on the face of the record can-'
not be ignored.
By the acts of July 12, 1882, Mlarch 3, 1887 and August 13, 1888, national
banks are, for purposes of the jurisdiction of the United States courts in
actions by or against them, to be deemed citizens of the States in which
they are located.

