ANGLO-AM. PROV. CO. v. DAVIS PROV. CO. No. 1. 373
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ANGL-AERICAN PROVISION CO. v. DAVIS PROVISION CO. No. 1.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 64. Argued November 6,9, 103.-Decided November 30,1903.

Consistently with Article IV, ยง 1, of the Constitution of the United States
a State may deny jurisdiction to the courts of the State over suits by a
corporation of another State against a corporation of another State on a
foreign judgment.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry Wilson Bridges for plaintiff in error.
Mr. FrankE. Smith for defendant in error. Mr. Thomas F.
I
Conway was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of New York.
The parties are both Illinois corporations, and the plaintiff in
error brought suit in the New York Supreme Court upon an
Illinois judgment. By the New York Code of Civil Procedure,
ยง 1780, it is provided that "an action against a foreign corporation may be maintained by another foreign corporation, or
by a non-resident, in one of the following cases only: . . .
3. Where the cause of action arose within the State, &c."
The other cases are immaterial. The complaint does not allege
that the original cause of action arose within the State, if that
would make any difference in the result. The complaint was
dismissed by the Supreme Court on a demurrer setting up the
above section, and the judgment was affirmed by the Appellate
Division and by the Court of Appeals. 169 N. Y. 506. It was
argued below that, under article IV, section 1, of the Consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

tution of the United States, the State could not thus exclude
foreign corporations from suing upon judgments obtained in
another State, because to do so was to deny full faith and credit
to those judgments. The decision to the contrary is the error
assigned.
The state court decides that the cause of action did not arise
within the State in the sense of the words of the code, and, of
course, we follow its construction, subject to the inquiry
whether the. statute as construed is consistent with the Constitution of the United States. See Northern Central Railway
Co. v. Maryland, 187 U. S. 258, 267. The court also decides
that the language quoted goes to the jurisdiction of the court.
We are of opinion that the section of the code as construed
is not unconstitutional. The precise point has not been decided by this court, but it has been laid down in cases which
raise greater difficulties than the present, that this provision
of the Constitution establishes a rule of evidence rather than
of jurisdiction. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265,
291; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, 36. The Constitution
does not require the State of New York to give jurisdiction to
the Supreme Court against its will. If the plaintiff can find a
court into which it has a right to come, then the effect of the
judgment is fixed by the Constitution and the act in pursuance
of it which Congress has passed. Rev. Stat. ยง 905. But the
Constitution does not require the State to provide such a court.
See Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 30. If the State does
provide a court to which its own citizens may resort in a certain
class of cases, it may be that citizens of other States of the
Union also would have a right to resort to it in cases of the
same class. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 256. But that
right, even when the suit was upon a judgment of another
State, would not rest on the first section of article IV, on which
alone the plaintiff relies or can rely, but would depend on the
second section, entitling the citizens of each State to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States. The
plaintiff is not a citizen within this section, Paul v. Virginia,

ANGLO-A.
191 U. S.

PROV. CO. v. DAVIS PROV. CO. No. 1. 315
Opinion of the Court.

8 Wall. 168; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28, 45;
and did not set it up. The general power of a State to restrict
the right of a foreign corporation to sue in its courts is assumned
in Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589-591. As to
discrimination against non-residents, see Chemung CanalBank
v. Lowery, 93 U. S. 72.
The plaintiff lays great stress upon Christmas v. Russell, 5
Wall. 290. In that case suit was brought in Mississippi on a
Kentucky judgment against a citizen of Mississippi upon a
promissory note made in Mississippi and payable in New Orleans. A suit upon the note would have been barred by the
Mississippi statute of limitations when the suit in Kentucky was
begun, and the defendant set up a statute of Mississippi providing that no action should be maintained upon a judgment
rendered in such circumstances without the State against a
resident of the State. It was held that the statute was void, and
that as the judgment was valid in Kentucky it could not be
treated as invalid in Mississippi. It will be observed that this
was a suit by a citizen. There was no suggestion that the statute went to the jurisdiction of the court. Obviously it did not.
Indeed, the suit was brought in the United States Circuit Court.
The statute made no discrimination in the right to come into
court, according to the character of the plaintiff or of the cause
of action, but attempted to create a defense against a plaintiff
assumed to have a right to come into court and to invoke the
jurisdiction. But when the plaintiff was in court and exhibited his judgment, it was too late for the State to interfere.
In the case at bar the plaintiff had no right to come into the
New York Supreme Court.
What, if any, limits there may be to state restrictions upon
the jurisdiction of state courts, when such restrictions do not
encounter article IV, section 2, of the Constitution, it is unnecessary to discuss. But we think it too plain for further
argument that the New York restriction upon suits by foreign
corporations against foreign corporations is not affected by
either section 1 or section 2 of article IV. It will be time

OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

enough to consider the suggestion that the law is an interference with interstate commerce, within Cooper Manuf. Co.
v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727, 734, when the record presents it.
The question is one of degree, and it is obvious that the supposed interference is very remote. See Diamond Glue Co. v.
United States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 616.
Judgment affirmed.

ANGLO-AMERICAN PROVISION CO. v. DAVIS PROVISION CO. No. 2.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 63. Argued November 9,1903.-Decided November 30, 1903.

When the Circuit Court has decided the question of its jurisdiction and the
alleged unconstitutionality of a state law in favor of the plaintiff, but
has decidcd against him on the merits, the plaintiff cannot appeal directly
to this court under the act of March 3, 189], c. 517, ยง 5, for the purpose
of a revision of the judgment on the merits.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry Wilson Bridges for appellant.
Mr. Frank E. Smith for appellee.
was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

Mr. Thomas F. Conway

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the plaintiff's bill. The bill is founded on the matters
stated in the preceding case. It alleges that the Davis Provision Company recovered a judgment against the plaintiff, in
New York, about a year and a half after the judgment reco-ered by the plaintiff against the Davis Provision Company in
Illinois. It shows the effort of the plaintiff to recover in New

