BALTIM RE & POTOMtAC I
191 U. S.

R. v. LANDRIGAN. 461

Syllabus.

dealings were solely between the bank and Thrush, and payments were made upon the bank note in question, the transaction with regard to usury was governed by the Federal law.
But in case the bank elected to foreclose the mortgage, I think
it took the benefit of it cum onere. He who seeks equity must
do equity. It could not take the benefit of the mortgage to
Sumner, and claim a right to foreclose for the amount due
without at the same time admitting that the payments which
had been made were made upon a debt secured by the mortgage, and subject to the disability of the state law. As was
justly said by the Supreme Court of Nebraska: "It would be
highly unconscionable to permit a person to give a contract a
false form to evade the burdens which would follow from its
true expression, and then permit him to show the truth as
against the form to evade the burdens caused by a contract in
the form which has been so chosen." The bank ought not to
be permitted to blow hot and cold in the same transaction.
If it claimed the benefit of a mortgage made to an individual,
it should take it with such burdens as would rest upon it if the
transaction had originally been what it was represented to be
upon its face. The opinion of the court suggests an easy
method by which the prohibition of the Federal statute against
the lending of money upon real estate security may be successfully evaded without the slightest danger to the bank.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. CO. v. LANDRIGAN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No.1. Argued November 10, 11, 1903.-Decided December 7, 1903.

In the absence of evidence to the contrary there is a presumption that one
who was killed while crossing a railroad track at night stopped, looked
and listened before attempting to cross the track.
Where it appears that it was customary to keep the gates at a railway crossing down during the night without regard to the approach or presence of
cars, trains or locomotives, the fact that they are down is not of itself a

OCTOBER TERM!,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

191 T. S.

warning of the presence of danger to one acquainted with such custom,.
while crossing the track at a time when the gates were generally ddwn.
Where it is an issue in the case whether a man was killed at a crossing by
a regular train which he should know was approaching at about that
hour, or by a runaway car of which he had no knowledge, and there is
evidence on such issue from which reasonable men might draw different
conclusions, it is not error to leave it to the jury to determine whether
or not it was a want of ordinary or reasonable care and prudence for
deceased to attempt to cross the track at the time and under the circumstances, the jury being charged that their verdict should be for the
defendant if they found that he had been killed by the regular train.

THIS action was brought under the death statute of the
District of Columbia for damages for the death of the husband
and intestate of defendant in error. The death was the result
of injuries alleged to have been caused by the negligence of the
plaintiffs in error. The negligence is alleged to have consisted
in the insufficient coupling of the cars of the plaintiffs in error,
whereby one broke loose from ,the others and ran over the
deceased, in not equipping the car with good brakes, and not
having upon it a light sufficient to give warning of its approach.
The answer was not guilty.
The case was tried to a jury, which returned a verdict in
favor of the defendant in error in the sum of $6500. This
amount was agreed to as correct if the jury should find on the
issues for the defendant in error.
Judgment was entered for that amount and costs. It was
affirmed on appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District.
The testimony is somewhat long, and we think it is only
necessary to give an outline of what it tended to prove to
illustrate and determine the questions presented.
The plaintiffs in error operated a steam railroad in the city
of Washington, District of Columbia, and maintained four
tracks on Virginia avenue southwest, crossing South Capitol
street. The most northerly of the tracks, called "The Reservation" or "No. 1" track, was used for freight and shifting
purposes. The two intermediate tracks were used for south
bound and north bound passenger traffic. The most southerly
track was called the "ladder" or "lead track." It was so

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 463
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

called because all the tracks in the railroad yard were connected
with it, and all the switches lead into it. It extended west
across South Capitol street to an alley, and terminated at what
was known as the property yard, where coal, ties, iron and
other commodities were stored. Gates and a gateman were
maintained at the crossing. There was evidence tending to
show that the portion of this track lying west of the crossing
was used for storing freight cars, but not passenger coaches,
and that no portion lying west was used for shifting or making
up the trains; but there was also evidence tending to show that
it was so used as occasion required. Landrigan's body was
found at the southwest crossing, south of the "lead track,"
"but nearer the track than the gate," and there was flesh and
blood alongside of the track on its south side. There was also
testimony tending to show that the gates were generally kept
down (one witness testified that in his experience they were
always down) from ten or eleven o'clock at night until next
morning, whether trains were passing or not, and persons with
vehicles sometimes found it necessary to request the gateman
to raise the gates, and sometimes to wake him up out of sleep
for that purpose. Preceding and at the time of the accident
a switching crew was making up a train of cars for the transportation of troops to the south, and it became necessary to
"cut out" a Pullman car, called the "Lylete," which was
standing on one of the tracks. Immediately next to it was a
tourist car. It was equipped with a Miller coupler; the Pullman with a Janney coupler. Both couplers were of the automatic type, but of different patterns, and not designed to
couple together, and in order to draw the cars out on the
"ladder" track they were coupled together with the ordinary
link and pin coupling.
There was considerable testimony as to the manner in which
the coupling was done, and of its efficiency, which testimony
it is not necessary to detail. It went to the jury with the other
testimony. It is enough to say that the couplers were of
unequal height, and the link could not be put in the slot of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

both couplers. It was put in the slot of the Janney coupler,
and the other end laid on the top of the Miller coupler, "and
the only thing to keep the link from slipping over the head of
the pin was a shoulder around the head of the pin." It came
loose, and one of the employ6s, who had been in charge of the
train, testified that "the couplings 'slipped around,' he supposed, when they were going around the curve, and that had
the tendency to make them come apart; that he supposed it
was due to the slack caused by coming over the switch and
'the ladder' track." The "ladder" track had a slight incline
to the crossing, and when the car broke loose it started towards
the crossing. An employ6 had tried the brake on the straight
track, but when some one "hollared" that the car had broken
off he "went to work on the brake again." "It did not seem
to catch hold," he testified; and he then "dropped off the end
of the car and caught the rear end of it-the head end-and at
the same time Hottal (yardmaster) got on the end that he got
off of; the witness called for Wilber to help him to put the brake
on, and they did all they could to stop the car, but the car had
got too much start; the brake seemed to work all right-he did
not have any fault to find with the brake, only the car had
gotten too much start; he first tried the rear brake and could
not get that to work; then went to the other one; while witness
and Wilber were working on the forward brake Hottal jumped
on and tried to work the rear brake; they did not succeed in
stopping the car, because it had gotten too much of a start.
He got off at South Capitol street on the southeast side, stood
there for a second or two, and then ran after the car to see
what damage it had done. There were some other cars down
on the end of this track, that this car ran into, and it would
not have been safe for the witness to have stayed on the
car."
The witness testified that he "did not know Landrigan personally; had seen him a number of times; he saw him after he
was hurt; Landrigan's legs were run over, but he could not say
whether it was by the car or another train; train No. 78, which

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 465
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

left the depot about 11: 55 or 11: 35, was passing there about
the time of the accident; this train No. 78 is known as the
midnight express for New York, and crossed South Capitol
street, where Landrigan was hurt, going in an easterly direction; when witness saw Landrigan the latter was lying on the
south side of the outside rail of the 'ladder track,' the most
southerly track of the four tracks of the crossing; immediately
before he saw Landrigan lying there the coach 'Lylete' passed
over the crossing at South Capitol street and witness came
right along behind this car, after train 78 passed, to see if the
coach had done any damage down there and saw Landrigan
lying there with some one around him; he went down where
the car had stopped and came back and found out what the
trouble was." As to the position of the gates, he said: "He
first noticed the gates when he came down there after he had
jumped off the end of the car; the gates were down then on both
sides of the street. He did not notice the gates before 78
passed, because he had not been down that far; he stood on
the southeast side of South Capitol street until 78 passed, and
then started to run down the main track, and as he ran down
the track he noticed that the gates were down on both sides."
And further, "the runaway car passed the southwest crossing
of South Capitol street before No. 78 reached there; it struck
just the middle part of No. 78 as the train came by there; the
runaway car had just about gotten across the crossing when
the engine of No. 78 began to cross the crossing; it was almost
at the same time."
There was a white light in the dome of the vestibule of the
runaway car or on the platform, and the effect of the light was
testified to as follows by one witness:
"The lamp in the dome of the vestibule of the Pullman car
had a white shade or globe underneath; it gave a bright lightyou could see it all right; the lamp was inside of the door and
the door was closed; the glass in the door extended about
half way down, and the light shown through the glass in the
door."
VOL. CXci-30

OCTOBER TER X, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

By another witness:
"That the light in the car was in the dome--in the vestibule
-just on the outside of the door, over the platform; he knows
there was a light in the west end of the car, the end going
toward South Capitol street-which was the front end of the
car the way it was moving; this light could be seen more plainly
than a lamp; such lights contain two burners, are lighted by oil,
and are more brilliant than a lantern; the reflector is over the
top of the light; there is a kind of white shade over them; that
the light in the vestibule of the car could be seen by people on
the ground; it hung down low, and did not set right up in the
dome; it had a shade over it, but he does not know whether
you could call it a reflector or not; it was plain enough to be
seen by anybody who was on the ground."
By another witness:
"That the light in the vestibule of a Pullman car is so located
as to illuminate the platform only; that is the purpose of that
light; that it does not throw the light more than a couple of
feet beyond the end of the bumper of the car; it is not intended
to illuminate the track.
"And thereupon, on cross-examination, said witness further
testified that such a light was not intended for a locomotive
headlight; that if a man was standing on the track some distance from the advancing end of a car showing such a light he
would not see the source of the light, but would see the reflected
light on the platform on the car; he could see the illuminated
end of the car; that if he was not looking exactly in that direction this light would not attract his attention away from
something else; that if he were looking up the track he could
see the light if he were not too far away."
And the evidence showed "that a Pullman car running along
an ordinarily straight track at a rate of speed a little faster
than a man ordinarily runs, or can run, does not make any
noise."
Landrigan was employed as a machinist and assistant boss
on the night force at the round house, which was situated be-

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 467
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tween H and I streets, on South Capitol street. He had been
employed for eight years. His home was north of the railroad
tracks on Virginia avenue, and the most usual and direct route
to his home from the round house was up South Capitol street
to the southwest crossing, "then right over to the north side
of Virginia avenue; and it was the way Landrigan usually took."
On the night of the accident he left the round house about
11: 50 o'clock, and about twelve o'clock was found in the place
and condition described in the testimony. The night "was
not a clear night, nor was it a real dark night-there was no
moon and there were a few clouds." The crossing was lighted
up by street lamps located on each side of the four corners, and
there was an electric light in the reservation north of the tracks,
and another one south and east of the tracks near the signal
tower.
There was testimony to the effect that to a person outside
of the gate the flagman's box would" obstruct the view of the
ladder track to the east, but one standing on the inside of the
gate on the open space, you could look straight up the track
to the eastward, and there was nothing to break your view."
And also that two freight cars obstructed the view to the west.
There was no eyewitness to the accident, and Landrigan, in
response to the inquiry, "How did this thing happen?" replied,
"I came under the gates and something struck me, and a whole
He died about four o'clock withtrain of cars ran over me."
out making further explanation.
At the close of the testimony the plaintiffs in error moved
the court to instruct the jury to find a verdict for them. The
court refused, and this is assigned as error. The case was then
submitted on the evidence of the defendant in error.
Errors are also assigned upon the giving and refusing of
certain instructions.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney and Mr. J. Spalding Flannery,
with whom Mr. Wayne McVeaqh was on the brief, for plaintiffs
in errQr;

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

191 U. S.

The railroad company cannot, as to the backing up of the
Pullman car, be held liable for doing unintentionally what it
had a right to do. Stewart v. Washington & Great Falls
Ry. Co., decided Nov. 4, 1903, by Court of Appeals, Dist.
Col.
There is a distinction between remote and proximate causes
of an accident. The proximate cause was the passing over
the tracks by the plaintiff below while the gates were down.
Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 130; Scheffer v. Railroad Co.,
105 U. S. 249; W. & G. R. R. v. Hickey, 166 U. S. 528; Cullen
v. Railroad Co., 8 D. C. App. 69; Grangerv. Boston & Albany,
146 Massachusetts, 276; Allerton v. R. R. Co., 146 Massachusetts, 241; Schmidt v. Phila. & Reading R. R. Co., 149 Pa. St.
337; Debbins v. R. R. Co., 154 Massachusetts, 402; Marden v.
Boston & Albany, 159 Massachusetts, 393; Peck v. R. R. Co.,
50 Connecticut, 379; B. & 0. v. Colvin, 118 Pa. St. 230; Cleary
v. R. R. Co., 140 Pa. St. 19; Sheehan v. R. R. Co., 166 Pa. St.
354; Duvall v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 105 Michigan, 386;
Douglass v. R. R. Co., 100 Wisconsin, 405; 76 N. W. Rep. 356;
Railway Co. v. Schneider, 45 Ohio St. 678; Railway Co. v.
Ehlert, 63 Ohio St. 320.
Either plaintiff did not look or, having looked, he disregarded
what he saw. In explaining the occurrence he made no mention of having looked up and down the tracks before venturing
upon them, and if his statement is to be accepted at all, it
should be accepted as conclusive, and the case should also
have been taken from the jury on this ground, for by his reference to a "whole string of cars" he must have meant the
express train No. 78; it was conceded that if he was injured
by that train he could not recover.
If he did not look and listen before attempting to cross the
tracks, or if he looked and failed to heed the warnings of his
senses, he was guilty of such contributory negligence as will
prevent plaintiff from recovery here. Northern Pacific R. R.
Co. v. Freeman, 174 U. S. 384; Hook v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 63
S. W. Rep. 360; 21 A. & E. R. R. Cas. (N. S.) 787.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 469
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The true rule in cases of this character is that there is no
presumption of law either way or in favor of either, party.
Beach on Contributory Negligence, ยง 182; Missouri Pacific
v. Foreman, 73 Texas, 311; Phila., W. & B. R. R. Co. v. Stibbing, 62 Maryland, 504; Texas & Pacific v. Gentry, 163 U. S.
353.
One is not entitled to say that he was injured by the negligence of another if he, by the use of ordinary care, might have
escaped the damage. Davey v. London & S. W. Ry. Co., 12
Q. B. D. 70 (1883); Wakelin v. London & S. W. Ry. Co., 12 App.
Cas. 41 (H. L. 1886); The Bernina, 12 Probate Div. 58 (1887);
Sewal v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 171 Massachusetts, 302;
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408; Patton v. Texas
Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. Charles A. Douglass, with
whom Mr. Joseph D. Wright was on the brief, for defendant
in error:
The trial judge could not have directed a verdict for defendants below. As to respective functions of judge and jury,
see Douglass v. Railroad Co., 100 Wisconsin, 407; Grand
Trunk Railroad Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408; Texas & Pacific v.
Gentry, 163 U. S. 353, 369; Cowen v. Merriam, 17 App. D. C.
186.
Defendants charge that this contributory negligence which
they impute to deceased consisted of two distinct acts on
his part: (1) going under the closed gates; (2) failing to
look and listen.
Appellants cite many authorities and quote in extenso from
the opinions of the courts in support of the general proposition that to go under closed gates and on a railroad track constitutes negligence per se.
The principle as stated, and when applied to the ordinary
case, where the gates are used as signals of danger or safety
-danger when closed, and safety when opened-is obviously
wholesome and sound.

OCTOBER TERMi,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

The gates were kept down all night except when vehicles
passed; this was a custom and plaintiff knew of the custom
and was entitled to rely upon it as he did. This took plaintiff
out of the general rule of what would otherwise have been
negligence per se; no testimony was offered by defendants
below on this point.
Their failure to do so, where the witnesses who operated the
gates, and who knew and could have testified better than any
one else as to the exact facts, were their own employ~s, whom
they could readily have produced if those facts would have
been to their advantage, of itself creates a case for the deduction of inferences that the facts were adverse to them, upon
which the plaintiff was entitled to have the jury pass. Am.
Bell Tel. Co. v. Nat. Tel. Mfg. Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 976,1018; In re
Kellogg, 7 Am. Bank. Reg. 635; Graves v. United States, 150
U. S. 118, 120, 121; Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216,
225.
As to the alleged negligence of passing under the gates,
when a danger signal thus becomes no real signal of danger,
no negligence is to be imputed to the traveler who knows the
fact and acts upon it. Cessante ratione legis cessat et ipsa lex.
A fortiori, when a signal ceases to be used for the object for
which it was intended, it ceases to indicate that object. Dashiell v. Market Company, 10 App. D. C. 81, 89; Douglass v.
R. R. Co., 100 Wisconsin, 405, and Sheehan v. R. R. Co., 166
Pa. St. 354, distinguished.
While it is the duty of one before attempting to cross a railroad track to look and listen for the approach of trains, it is
equally well settled that in the absence of any evidence to the
contrary, it is to be presumed in favor of the deceased that he
did so look and listen. Continental Improvement Co. v. Stead,
95 U. S. 161, 194; Texas & Pacifi v. Gentry, 163 U.S. 353,
366.
It was not error for the court to refuse to charge in the exact
language selected by counsel for defendants. Continental Imp.
Co. v. Stead, 95 U. S. 161, 194.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. v.LANDRIGAN. 471
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTIcF, McKzNNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The correctness of the ruling in denying the motion to
instruct the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiffs in error
depends upon the correctness of the ruling in granting or
refusing the special instructions prayed. The principles embraced in them are but specifications of the legal propositions
contained in the motion and upon which its soundness or unsoundness depended. If the ruling of the court was right on
those instructions it was right on denying the motion. We
proceed, therefore, to the consideration of the propositions
embraced in the instructions.
The charge of the defendant in error is that the railroad
companies were guilty of negligence. The railroads deny this,
and claim besides that the deceased came to his death by his
own negligence, or by negligence which contributed to that
result. As an element in the question of the entire innocence
of the railroad companies there is involved the construction and
effect of the evidence in regard to the coupling of the cars and
the sufficiency of the light upon the Pullman car to give notice
and warning of its approach. In regard, however, to that
evidence the instructions of the court are not questioned in this
court. No error is assigned on them here, and whatever of
argument is addressed to them or to the evidence is intended
to show that those acts, even if they were acts of negligence,
were not effective causes of the injury of the deceased, but that
his own negligence wassucheause. The determination of the
contentions of plaintiffs in error, therefore, depends upon the
question of the negligence of the deceased, and the instructions
given in relation thereto. At the request of the plaintiff in the
action, defendant in error here, the court instructed the jury
as follows:
"1. In the absence of all evidence tending to show whether
the plaintiff's intestate stopped, looked and listened before
attempting to cross the south track, the presumption would

OCTOBtER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

be that he did. But that presumption may be rebutted by
circumstantial evidence, and it is a question for the jury
whether the facts and circumstances proved in this case rebut
that presumption, and if they find that they do, they should
find that he did not stop and look and listen, but if the facts
and circumstances fail to rebut such presumption then the jury
should find that he did so stop and look and listen. In order
to justify them in finding that he did not, all the evidence
tending to show that should be weightier in the minds of the
jury than that tending to show the contrary.
"2. The jury are instructed that if they believe from the
evidence that the gates at the crossing where the deceased received his injury were generally kept down at night from 10: 30
or 11 o'clock until the early morning, without regard to the
approach or presence of a car, a train, or trains or locomotives,
and shall further conclude from all the facts and circumstances
of the case that the deceased had knowledge of thatfact, then
the circumstance that the gates at the intersection of South
Capitol street were down at the time of the accident was not
of itself a warning to him of the presence of danger, and contributory negligence cannot be imputed to him from that fact
alone.
"3. While knowledge by the deceased of the presence of the
Fenton engine on the north track or partly upon the South
Capitol street crossing and the approach of No. 78 upon one
of the central tracks at or near the time of the accident might
orwould indicate the presence of danger on or near those tracks,
it is for the jury to determine upon all the facts of this case
whether it was a want of ordinary or reasonable care and prudence upon his part to be upon the south track, at the point
upon said last-named track at which they shall find from the
evidence the accident occurred."
The defendants, plaintiffs in error here, submitted instructions to the court which were emphatic contraries of the instructions given at the request of the plaintiff, and expressed
the law to be that the fact of the gates being down was of itself

BALTIMORE & POTO3EAO R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 473
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a warning to the deceased; and further, if he disregarded the
warning, he was guilty of contributory negligence; and that
the gates being down, they were "closed or lowered for all
trains, cars or engines which were moving or passing or which
might move or pass upon all or any of said tracks at said crossing and were a warning of danger which the plaintiff's intestate
was bound to heed, and if the jury shall find that the plaintiff's
intestate met his death by going under said gates and upon or
so near to one of said tracks as to be struck by a car moving
on said track, he was guilty of negligence contributing to the
accident, and the plaintiff cannot recover in this action."
The following instruction was also prayed:
"It appearing from the uncontradicted evidence in the case
that the defendants maintained at all hours of the night a
gateman in charge of the gates at the crossing in question, who
raised and lowered said gates as occasion might require, and it
further appearing from such evidence that such gateman was
accustomed to open or raise said gates for the passage of
pedestrians or vehicles when it was safe to do so, and it further
appearing that the crossing in question being adjacent to the
shifting, storage and engine yards of said defendants and
between such yards and their passenger and freight stations
in the city of Washington, and that the main tracks leading
to and from said station also passed over the same, said crossing
was an especially dangerous place, the jury are instructed that
in the absence of any evidence tending to show that the plaintiff's intestate, upon approaching said crossing and finding the
gates between him and the tracks lowered or closed, made any
request of the gateman to raise or open the same or submitted
any inquiry as to whether any engines, cars or trains were
approaching said crossing before he went under said gates and
entered upon the crossing within the same and thereby received
the injuries which resulted in his death, said intestate was
guilty of negligence directly contributing to his own misfortune
and the plaintiff cannot recover."
(1.) There was no error in instructing the jury that in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

absence of evidence to the contrary, there was a presumption
that the deceased stopped, looked and listened. The law was
so declared in Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Gentry, 163 U. S.
353, 366. The case was a natural extension of prior cases.
The presumption is founded on a law of nature. We know of
no more universal instinct than that of self preservation-none
that so insistently urges to care against injury. It has its
motives to exercise in the fear of pain, maiming and death.
There are few presumptions, based on human feelings or experience, that have surer foundation than that expressed in
the instruction objected to. But notwithstanding the incentives to the contrary, men are sometimes inattentive, careless
or reckless of danger. These the law does not excuse nor does
it distinguish between the degrees of negligence.
This was the ruling in Northern Pacific RailroadCo. v. Freeman, 174 U. S. 379, the case which plaintiffs in error oppose to
Railway Co. v. Gentry. In the Freeman case a man thirty-five
years old, with no defect of eyesight or healing, familiar with a
railroad crossing and driving gentle horses which were accustomed to the cars, approached the crossing at a trot not faster
than a brisk walk, with his head down looking at his horses and
drove upon the track, looking "'straight before him without
turning his head either way." This was testified to by witnesses. There was direct evidence, therefore, of inattention.
There is no such evidence in this case, and the instructions given
must be judged accordingly. The court did not tell the jury
that all those who cross railroad tracks, stop, look and listen,
or that the deceased did so, but that, in the absence of evidence
to the contrary, he was presumed to have done so, and it was
left to the jury to say if there was such evidence. The instruction was a recognition of "the common experience of men,"
from which it was judged in the Freemancase that the deceased
in that case had not looked or listened, and submitted to the
jury that which it was their constitutional duty to decide.
And there was enough evidence to justify dispute and from
which different conclusions could be drawn.

BALTIMORE & POTO[AC R. R. v. LANDRIGAN. 475
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(2.) We think there was no error in the instruction as to the
effect of the gates as a notice of danger under the practice of
the companies. Indeed, the instruction is so obviously right
that argument advanced to support it drops into truisms. One
thing or condition cannot be any certain evidence of another
thing or condition unless they invariably co-exist. Of course,
two things may occasionally co-exist, but this furnishes no
argument for plaintiffs in error. It only raises the query,
when do the things co-exist, and, making an application to the
pending case, when did the closed gates and passing trains
co-exist? When were the former a witness of the latter? Always? The testimony answers, no. Between 10:30 and
11 o'clock at night, until morning, the gates were generally
kept down without regard to passing trains. During that
time, therefore, they had no more relation to passing trains
than the signal tower or any other inanimate object at or near
the crossing. Gates at a railroad crossing have a useful purpose. Open, they proclaim safety to the passing public;
closed, they proclaim danger; but, it is manifest, if they be
open or closed, regardless of safety or danger, they cannot be
notice of either. Counsel perceive this and extend their contention to urging that it is the duty of those who want to cross,
be they pedestrians or those driving teams, to seek the gateman
and not to attempt to cross until he raise the gates.
Those driving teams must do so if they pass at all, and a
controversy such as this record presents could not occur as to
them. But there are more who walk than ride, and every
time their way is stopped by gates at a railroad crossing must
they awake a sleeping gateman, or seek an absent one, or be
charged with negligence, and that despite the fact that the
practice of the railroad company has made closed gates not
necessarily an indication of danger? The contention makes
the neglect of duty by the railroad as efficacious as the performance of duty. At times a railroad must have exclusive
use of a crossing, but at such times it is its duty to close' the
gates. The use over it is its duty to open them, and it cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

neglect that duty and claim the same consequence as if it had
been performed. The instructions of the court were very
guarded. It told the jury if the gates where the injury occurred were generally kept down at night from 10:30 or 11
o'clock, without regard to the presence or absence of trains,
and that deceased had knowledge of that fact, then "the circumstance that the gates at the intersection of South Capitol
street were down at the time of the accident was not of itself a
warning to him of the presence of danger, and contributory
negligence cannot be imputed to him from that fact alone."
The italics are ours, and the words italicized put a careful
limitation upon the instruction, and, so limited, it was not
erroneous.
(3.) It was an issue in the case whether the deceased was
struck and run over by the Pullman car or by the passenger
express No. 78, and on that issue the court instructed the jury
that if the deceased was struck and run over by the passenger
express, their verdict should be for the plaintiffs in error. This
instruction is complained of. Plaintiffs in error contend that
there was no evidence from which it could be determined that
it was the Pullman car and not the passenger express train
which injured the deceased, and it was error, therefore, to
submit the issue to the jury. The action of the court was right.
There was certainly evidence on the issue from which reasonable men might draw different conclusions.
As we have already seen, the most direct evidence of the
passing of the north bound express was to the effect that "the
runaway car passed the southwest crossing before 78 (the passenger express) reached there; it struck just the middle part
of No. 78 as the train came by there; the runaway car had just
about gotten across the crossing when the engine of 78 began
to cross the crossing; it was almost about the same time.",
If it be admitted that this leaves the issue in doubt, and
justifies no inference, there are circumstances to be considered.
If the deceased was struck by No. 78, it is difficult to understand howhe got to theplace and in the condition hewas found.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
191 U3.S.

Syllabus.

Was he hurled there by the impact of the train? If that were
possible, how came his legs to be crushed? Not by the runaway
car, because that had passed; not by train 78, for he had been
cast aside and away from that. The circumstances, therefore,
seem to indicate that he was not struck by train 78, but was
run over by the runaway car, and, we think, there is nothing
inconsistent with that conclusion in his statement. His situation was horrible. If in our different situation we may venture
to judge of it at all, we may wonder that he had or could retain
any preception of what had occurred. Certainly exact accuracy of statement could not have been expected of him, and
to his shocked and almost overwhelmed senses it might well
have seemed that not one car only, but a train of cars had run
over him. Finding no error in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 56. Argued November 5, 1903.-Decided December 7, 1903.
A bill of lading was given in New York State for transporting a horse to a,
point in Pennsylvania, containing a clause limiting the carrier's liability to
a stipulated value in consideration of the rate paid, the shipper having
been offered a bill of lading without such limitation on payment of a'
higher rate signed a memorandum accepting the contract at the lower rate.
The common law as interpreted by the courts of New York and the
Federal courts permits a common carrier to limit by contract his liability
for his own negligence; as interpreted by the courts of Pennsylvania he
cannot so limit it. On writ of error to review a judgment recovered in a
state court of Pennsylvania by the shipper for damages caused by the
negligence of the carrier in excess of the limited amount:
feld that the jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of a state
court under sec. 709, U. S. Revised Statutes, depends upon the assertion
of a right, privi]ege or immunity under the Federal Constitution or laws
set up and denied in the state courts.
Ye4 that the highest court of a State may administer the common law 4c

,

