NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 555
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While the question is not free from difficulty, we cannot
escape the conclusion that had Congress intended that this
credit should be given not only for the purpose of computing
future pay, but with a view to readjusting past compensation,
and giving gratuities for years past, it would have declared
its purpose in more distinct terms.
The construction here given is consistent with the declared
purpose of the act; it gives to the law a future, not a retrospective operation, and, in our judgment, carries out the expressed purpose of Congress in passing the law.
Judgment of the Court of Claims affirmed.

NORTHERN SEOURITIES COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 277. Submitted November 16,1903.-Decided November 30,1903.

lotion for leave to file brief as amiu curce denied.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for Mr. Charles Fisk Beach, applicant.
TEm CHIEF JUSTICE: In support of this motion certain letters were presented showing that request was made of counsel
for the respective parties for their consent to the application,
and that they withheld direct consent, leaving the matter
entirely to the court to determine. When the motion was
submitted objection to the granting of leave was made by
counsel for appellees.
Where in a pending case application to file briefs is made
by counsel not employed therein, but interested in some other

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

pending case involving similar questions, and consent is given,
the court has always exercised great liberality in permitting
this to be done. And doubtless it ip within our discretion to
allow it in any case when justified by the circumstances.
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 17; Florida v. Georgia, 17 How.
478, 491; The Gray Jacket, 5 Wall. 370. It does not appear
that applicant is interested in any other case which will be
affected by the decision of this case; as the parties are represented by competent counsel, the need of assistance cannot
be assumed; and consent has not been given.
Leave to file must, therefore, be
Denied.

