SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
191 U. S.

451

Syllabus.

age for delivery to the consignee upon payment of its, price.

It had never become commingled with the general mass of
property within the State. While technically the title of the
machine may not have passed until the price was paid, the
sale was actually made in Chicago, and the fact that the price
was to be collected in North Carolina is too slender a thread
upon which to hang an exception of the transaction from a
rule which would otherwise declare the tax to be an interference with interstate commerce.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolinais therefore reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES did not participate in the decision of

this case.

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 50. Argued November 3, 1903.-Decided December 7,1903.
Where usurious interest has been paid to a national bank the remedy afforded by see. 5198, U.S. Revised Statutes, is exclusive and is confined to
an independent action to recover such usurious payment. Hazeltine v.
Central National Bank, 183 U. S. 118.
A claim that usurious interest has been paid on a debt to a national bank
secured by mortgage on real estate given by the debtors to an individual
for the benefit of the bank cannot be asserted under the state law in
foreclosure proceedings in the state courts.
Where the state law does not forbid an agent from taking security for the
benefit of a principal the taking of real estate security by the president
of a national bank for a debt due to the bank is in legal effect the taking
of such security by the bank itself.
The provisions of the United States statutes forbidding the taking of real
estate security by a national bank for a debt coincidently contracted do
not operate to make the security void but simply subject the bank to
be called to account by the government for exceeding its powers.
Logan County v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67.

OCTOBER TERM, 19M .
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

ON August 8, 1890, George Thrush, one of the defendants in
error, being indebted to the Schuyler National Bank, one of
the plaintiffs in error, for money then and theretofore lent,
executed a note to the bank for the sum of $5000, payable six
months after date. As collateral security fTr the payment of
this note, Thrush and his wife executed a note and mortgage
for $5000 to one Sumner, who was at that time the president
of the bank. The collateral note and mortgage were delivered
to the bank and by it retained. The note made to the bank
was renewed by the bank from time to time, and various payments of interest and on account of the principal were made to
the bank, the principal sum thereby being reduced in March,
1l894, to $3000. In that month and year a new note was executed to the bank for the principal sum then due and interest,
in all, $3229. No money dealings were had at any time between either Thrush and his wife and Sumner individually.
James Gadsden, one of the defendants in error, sued Thrush
and his wife in a Nebraska court to foreclose an asserted mortgage on real estate. Junior encumbrancers of record were
made parties defendant, among them being Sumner, to whom
the mortgage for $5000, securing the collateral note previously
referred to, had been executed. He answered, and by crosspetition asserted the lien of the mortgage, which he alleged
was made to him as trustee, for the benefit of the Schuyler
National Bank; he prayed foreclosure of such lien and the
payment of the indebtedness to the bank, stated to be $3229
and interest. The Schuyler National Bank was subsequently
made a party defendant; and, by answer and cross-petition,
claimed the benefit of the mortgage to Sumner, securing the
indebtedness just stated, and joined in the prayer for foreclosure. Separate answers, similar in tenor, were filed on
behalf of Thrush and his wife, in which were averred, in numerous paragraphs, many payments to the bank of usurious
interest during a period of five years, and in substance it was
prayed that the amount of such payments might be deducted

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK
101 U.S.

'.

GADSDEN.

453

Statement of the Case.

from the principal sum claimed by the bank to be due. In
each of the answers was contained the following paragraph:
"That the said note of $5000 of the defendants George
Thrush and Mattie N. Thrush, together with the mortgage
securing the same, were not executed and delivered to said
William H. Sumner upon any consideration whatsoever, but
the same are simply held by said defendant as collateral security to the amount owing by the defendant, George Thrush,
on the said indebtedness now being evidenced by said $3229
note, in this, that the said note of $5000 and the mortgage
securing the same were executed and delivered by this defendant and Mattie N. Thrush to said Sumner for the purpose that
said Sumner might protect therewith said bank on account of
the indebtedness of said George Thrush to said bank, and said
note and mortgage were accepted by said Sumner with the
knowledge and consent of said bank, and because said bank
refused to take said mortgage and said Sumner in nowise
protected said loan or advanced any money thereon and at
the time of the maturity thereof, by virtue of the premises
and the payments of usurious and illegal interest made thereon,
as aforesaid, there was due and owing, after deducting the
payments made upon the principal and the said payments of,
usurious interest, the small balance, to wit, of $252.20, and
for the aforesaid balance the said defendant Sumner is entitled
to a lien upon said premises under and by virtue of said mortgage and promissory note of $5000."
A reply was filed to these answers. It was therein stated in
substance that most of the alleged usurious interest had been
paid to the bank more than two years before the commencement of the action, and that the remaining interest payments
were not in excess of the rate allowed by law to be contracted
for. The pleading concluded with the claim "that this court
has no jurisdiction in this action to consider the question raised
in said answer to each and every item of interest mentioned in
said answer as paid to said Schuyler National Bank; that said
items are not proper items of set-off or counter-claim and can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

not be adjudicated except in a suit brought expressly for that
purpose under the provisions of section 5198 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States."
A decree was entered determining the priority of liens between the respective lienholders and providing for a foreclosure.
Among other things it was adjudged that the mortgage to
Sumner was executed and delivered for the benefit of the bank,
and that the bank was entitled to the proceeds of the note and
mortgage. As to the defence of usury set up in the answers
it was decided that, as the transaction was one with a national
bank, it was governed by the laws of the United States, and,
therefore, recovery by way of set-off of the usurious interest
alleged to have been paid was refused. Recovery of the interest embraced in the claim of the bank was, however, denied,
and judgment was entered only for the principal sum found
to be due and owing to the bank.
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Nebraska reversed the
judgment of the District Court in the particular just noticed,
and remanded the cause with directions "to ascertain the
amount of money advanced to Thrush by the Schuyler National
Bank, deduct therefrom all payments, whether of principal or
interest, and award foreclosure for the remainder, if any."
56 Nebraska, 565. On a reheating, the appellate court reaffirmed its previous decision. 58 Nebraska, 340. Thereupon
a writ of error was allowed from this court, which was subsequently dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 179 U. S. 681.
Subsequently the state District Court entered a judgment in
conformity with the mandate of the Supreme Court of Nebraska, and such judgment was affirmed on appeal. 63 Nebraska, 881. The present writ of error was thereupon
allowed.
Mr. CharlesJ. Phelps for plaintiff in error:
The penalties imposed by §§ 5197, 5198, U. S. Rev. Stat., are
exclusive. F. & M. Bank v. Deering,91 U. S.29. A national
bank may take real estate for a'past due debt; State Nat.

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Bank v. Flathers, 45 La. Ann. 75; or present or future debts;
Winton v. Little, 94 Pa. St. 64. No one but the government
can complain. Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99; Union Nat.
Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621; Bank v. Haire, 36 Iowa, 443;
Swope v. Leffingwell, 105 U. S. 3; Reynolds v. National Bank,
112 U. S. 405; Fortierv. NationalBank, 112 U. S. 439; Wheney
v. Hale, 77 Missouri, 20.* The debt is the claim, the mortgage
is a mere incident. Webb v. Hoselton, 4 Nebraska, 318.
Estoppel must be pleaded. B. & M. R. Co. v. Harris, 8
Nebraska, 140. To constitute equitable estoppel it must appear the facts were known to the party against whom it is
urged and unknown to the party urging it. Nash v. Bakes,
58 N. W. Rep. 706; Bigelow on Estoppel, 570, 669 et seq.
In Haseltinev. Bank, 183 U. S. 118, it was held that usurious
interest could not be set off in an action on the note.
Mr. George H. Thomas and Mr. Frank Dolezal for defendants in error submitted:
There is no Federal question. Under the facts in this
case the remedy for usury paid is not under the Federal but
the state statute. Exeter National Bank v. Orchard, 39 Nebraska, 485.
By the Federal statute, a national bank is forbidden to loan
money on real estate security. While this inhibition will not invalidate a mortgage on lands given to such a bank nor prevent
its foreclosure, and the Federal government alone may forfeit the
charter of the bank, it certainly will not be questioned, however, that it is the duty of the bank to honestly observe this
inhibition; that it is the duty of the courts to so construe the
statute that an honest observance Will be compelled. In addition to the plain legal phase of this case, it seems equally
plain that the bank should be so held, that when the government brings process to enforce the statute the bank cannot
evade it by proving that it took no mortgage on land, and
where the State as to that very mortgage, attempts to enforce
its remedy for usury say that it is protected by a privilege

OOTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

given by the very statute which it violated, and under which
it claimed as against the government it did not act. A construction of the statute which would permit such double dealing is not to be seriously considered as proper in a court of
justice.
MR. JUsTicB WHiT.E, after making'the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The question for decision is, Did the Supreme Court of
Nebraska rightly decide that the controversy concerning
usurious interest paid was to be governed by the statute of
Nebraska on that subject and not by the laws of the United
States on the same subject, as expressed in section 5198 of the
Revised Stattites? We say this is the sole question, because
it is undoubted that if the rights of the parties are to be determined by the laws of the United States, the ruling below was
wrong. This results from the prior adjudications of this court
holding that where usurious interest has been paid to a national
bank, the remedy afforded by section 5198 of the Revised
Statutes is exclusive, and is confined to an independent action
to recover such usurious payments. Haseltine v. Central National Bank, 183 U. S. 132, and cases cited. If, on the other
hand, the controversy is governed by the local law of Nebraska,
then the construction and application of that law made by the
court of last resort of the State is binding.
In fact, this is not controverted and could not be, since the
Supreme Court of Nebraska conceded that if the contention
as to usurious interest ought to he determined by the laws of
the United States, the conclusion which the court reached was
erroneous. That court, however, held that the rights of the
parties were to be measured by the law of the State instead
of the law of the United States, because the collateral mortgage
was not made, eo nomine, to the bank, but to an individual.
This view was deemed to be fortified by the suggestion that,
as the collateral note was secured by mortgage on real estate,

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
191 U. S.

457

Opinion of the Court.

it could not under the laws of the United States have been
lawfully made in favor of a national bank. The collateral note
and mortgage, it was, therefore, intimated must be assumed
to have been executed to an individual to avoid the effect of
the laws of the United States and the consequent knowledg6
which would have been conveyed to the proper officers of the
United States that the bank was violating the law.
The reasoning by which the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Nebraska was controlled is, in our opinion, erroneous. The
court did not hold that, because the collateral mortgage was
taken in the name of an individual, it could not be enforced
by the bank under the law of Nebraska, but simply held that,
although it was enforceable by the bank, the remedy as to the
usurious interest was governed exclusively by the state law,
upon the theory that the transaction was not with the bank.
But the usurious interest had all been paid, not to the individual
upon the collateral note, but to the bank upon the principal
obligation held by it. It was this interest so paid to the bank
on the principal note held by it which was in effect imputed so
as to fix the amount due. The result of this was to treat the
transaction as an individual one in order thereby to exclude
the law of the United States, and then at once to treat it as a
bank transaction for the purpose of ascertaining and imputing
the sums of usurious interest which had been paid. This was
to administer the rights of the parties upon distinct and wholly
inconsistent theories. Either it was an individual transaction
or it was not. It could not in reason have been at one and the
same time both the transaction of the bank excluding the
individual and a dealing between individuals excluding the
bank. As the usurious interest for which a remedy was afforded had been paid to the bank, in dealings by the bank
with its debtor, and as the necessary effect of the judgment
below was to reduce the debt due to the bank by allowing the
imputation of the sum of the usurious interest, we are of opinion
that the controversy was governed by the laws of the United
States and not by the law of the State of Nebraska.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Nor do we think the suggestions made in the opinion of the
court below respecting the power of a national bank under the
laws of the United States to accept real estate security operate
inany way to modify the conclusion we have just expressed.
It is not contended that under the law of Nebraska an agent,
acting in his own name, may not take security for the benefit
of a principal, or that there is or could be any valid statute of
the State of Nebraska discriminating against national banks,
and depriving them of the benefit of transactions so consummated. This being true, it follows that the taking of real
estate security by the president of the bank in his individual
name, for the benefit of the bank, was in legal effect but the
taking of security by the bank itself. Now it is no longer
open to controversy that the provisions of the statutes of the
United States forbidding the taking of real estate security by
a national bank for a debt coincidently contracted do not
operate to make the security void, and thus enable the individual who has contracted with the bank to defeat recovery,
but simply subject the bank to be called to account by the
government for exceeding its powers. In Logan County v.
Townsend, 139 U. S.67, the rule on this subject, as settled by
the previous authorities, was thus stated by the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan (p. 76):
"In National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S.621, it appeared
that a national bank loaned money upon the security of a note
and a deed of trust of lands, both of which were assigned to it.
The statute declared that a national banking association could
loan money 'on personal security,' and could purchase, hold
and convey real estate for certain named purposes, 'and for
no others,' among which was not included the securing of a
present loan of money by a deed of trust or mortgage on real
property. The court, while assuming that the statute, by clear
implication, forbade the bank from making a loan on real estate,
refused to restrain the bank from enforcing the deed of trust.
The decision went upon these grounds: That the bank parted
with its money in good faith; that the question as to the viola-

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. GADSDEN.
191 U. S.

459

Justices BRowN and BREWER, dissenting.

tion of its charter, by taking title to real estate for purposes
unauthorized by law, could be raised only by the government
in a direct proceeding for that purpose; and that it was not
open to the plaintiff in that suit, who had contracted with the
bank, to raise any such question in order to defeat the collection of the amount loaned. If any doubt existed as to the
scope of the decision in that case, it was removed by National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, where it was held that the
right of a national bank to enforce a mortgage of real estate
taken by it to secure indebtedness then existing, as well as
future advances, could not be questioned by the debtor, and
that a disregard by the bank of the provisions of the act of
Congress upon that subject only laid the association open to
proceedings by the government for exercising powers not conferred by law."
It follows from the foregoing reasons that the Supreme Court
of Nebraska erroneously determined the rights of the parties
by the rule of the state law, when it should have applied the
law of the United States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is reversed,
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.JusTIcE BROWN, with whom was MR.JUsTICE BREWER,
dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent from the opinion of the court in
this case.
The facts, concisely stated, are as follows: George Thrush
executed a note to the bank for $5000, payable in six months.
At the same time Thrush and wife executed a collateral note
and mortgage for the same amount to Sumner, president of
the bank. This note and mortgage, given partly for an antecedent and partly for a contemporaneous debt, were delivered
to the bank and retained by it.
I The note made to the bank was renewed from time to time,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Justices

BROWN

and BREwJR, dissenting.

191 U. S.

and various payments of interest and principal were made, and
the principal sum thereby reduced, in March, 1894, to $3000.
At that time a new note was executed to the bank for the
principal sum due and interest, namely, $3229. No dealings
were had at any time between Thrush and wife and Sumner
individually.
Suit having been begun by Gadsden to foreclose a prior
mortgage, and Sumner having been made a party as junior
encumbrancer, he answered, and by cross petition asserted the
lien of the mortgage, which he alleged was made to him as
trustee of the bank. The bank being also made defendant, o
filed an answer and cross-petition, claiming the benefit of the
mortgage to Sumner.
It is clear that there -was but one actual debt. The question
is, whether, in asserting its right to foreclose the mortgage made
to Sumner individually, it must not submit itself to the laws of
the State affecting usury; in other words, whether, in the foreclosure of a mortgage created under the laws of a State and
executed by one citizen of a State to another, its obligations
are to be determined by state law or Federal law. Congress
forbids such a mortgage; the State permits it. There can be
no doubt that the bank caused the mortgage to be given to
Sumner on account of the law forbidding national banks from
receiving security by way of mortgage upon real estate, and to
obviate any difficulties which" might be interposed either by
the mortgagor or by the government, by taking the mortgage
in the name of the bank.
Had the mortgage expressed upon its face the exact truth,
namely, that it was given for the benefit of a national bank,
and partly, at least, for the security of a contemporaneous
debt, it would have fallen within the ban of the Federal statute.
It is true the state law permitted it, but accompanied it with
a forfeiture of the entire interest if usury were taken. The
question is whether, in enforcing this mortgage, which the bank
was prohibited from taking in its own name, it may claim an
exemption from the usury laws of the State. So long as the

BALTIM RE & POTOMtAC I
191 U. S.

R. v. LANDRIGAN. 461

Syllabus.

dealings were solely between the bank and Thrush, and payments were made upon the bank note in question, the transaction with regard to usury was governed by the Federal law.
But in case the bank elected to foreclose the mortgage, I think
it took the benefit of it cum onere. He who seeks equity must
do equity. It could not take the benefit of the mortgage to
Sumner, and claim a right to foreclose for the amount due
without at the same time admitting that the payments which
had been made were made upon a debt secured by the mortgage, and subject to the disability of the state law. As was
justly said by the Supreme Court of Nebraska: "It would be
highly unconscionable to permit a person to give a contract a
false form to evade the burdens which would follow from its
true expression, and then permit him to show the truth as
against the form to evade the burdens caused by a contract in
the form which has been so chosen." The bank ought not to
be permitted to blow hot and cold in the same transaction.
If it claimed the benefit of a mortgage made to an individual,
it should take it with such burdens as would rest upon it if the
transaction had originally been what it was represented to be
upon its face. The opinion of the court suggests an easy
method by which the prohibition of the Federal statute against
the lending of money upon real estate security may be successfully evaded without the slightest danger to the bank.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC R. R. CO. v. LANDRIGAN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No.1. Argued November 10, 11, 1903.-Decided December 7, 1903.

In the absence of evidence to the contrary there is a presumption that one
who was killed while crossing a railroad track at night stopped, looked
and listened before attempting to cross the track.
Where it appears that it was customary to keep the gates at a railway crossing down during the night without regard to the approach or presence of
cars, trains or locomotives, the fact that they are down is not of itself a

