OCTOBER TERMt, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

ROSS v. AGUIRRE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 19. Argued October 14,193.-Decided November 2,1903.
Under the decisions of the highest court of California, an act of legisture entitled "An Act to amend sections 204,205,206 and 203 of the Code
of Civil Procedure" is not void as contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the State providing that every act of the legislature shall embrace but one subject which shall be expressed in its title.
One convicted after indictment by a grand jury impaneled under the
provisions of Code as so amended is not deprived of his liberty without
due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.

from an order denying a writ of habeas corpus. The
respondent is the warden of the state prison of the State of
California at San Quentin, and holds the petitioner in custody
under a judgment of the Superior Court of San Luis Obispo
County, State of California, in which court he had been indicted, tried and found guilty of the crime of murder and
sentenced to be hanged.
The petition under review is the second presented to the
Circuit Court. The first was denied on the ground "that application for relief on behalf of said Burt Ross should first be
made to the courts of the State." Thereupon a petition was
presented to the Supreme Court of the State of California and
denied. A writ of error from this court was also denied by
the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State. The
ground of the petition is that the grand jury by which the
indictment was found was not selected in accordance with
law, and that therefore his conviction, sentence and commitment do not constitute due process of law, and that he is deprived of his liberty in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
APPEAL

ROSS v. AGUIRRE.
191 U. S.

. Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. C.Van Fleet and Mr. W. B. Treadwell for appellant.
Mr. U. S. Webb and Mr. C. N. Post for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKFNNA, after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
By the constitution of the State of California no person can
be held for a crime unless on information, after examination
and committment by a magistrate, or an indictment by a
grand jury. Sec. 8, Constitution of 1879. By sections 204
to 211, inclusive, of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State,
(prior to the amendments hereinafter stated,) it was made the
duty of each of the Superior Courts of the State to fix by order,
the number of grand jurors and trial jurors required for the
transaction of business and the trial of causes during the
ensuing year; and it was made the duty of the boards of supervisors of the counties, upon the making of said order, to select
from the last preceding assessment roll a list of persons competent and suitable to serve as grand jurors, and also a list
of persons to serve as trial jurors, and certify said lists, and
place the same with the county clerk, who, upon receiving
them, was required to fie them in his office, "and write down
the names contained thereon, on separate pieces of paper, of
the same size and appearance, and fold each piece so as to conceal the name thereon," and "deposit the pieces of paper
having on them the names of the persons selected to serve as
grand jurors in a box to be called the 'grand jury box,' and
those having on them the names of persons selected to serve
as trial jurors in a box to be called the 'trial jury box.'
Grand jurors and trial jurors were required to be drawn respectively from these boxes, by lot, by the clerk in the presence and by order of the court. Sections 241 and 242, Code
of Civil Procedure.
On March 3, 1893, the legislature passed an act entitled
"An act to amend sections 204, 205, 206 and 208 of the Code

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

of Civil Procedure." Stats. Cal. 1893, p. 297. By this act it
is provided that the Superior Court, after making the order
stating the number of grand jurors which in its opinion would
be required for the business of the court, "shall select and list
the grand jurors required by said order to serve as grand jurors
in said Superior Court during the ensuing year." It was left
the duty of the board of supervisors to select a list of trial
jurors. The grand jury which indicted the petitioner was
selected under this act. fllegally selected, it is contended,
because "it is the law of the State of California that an act with
only such a title" is void under the constitution of the State,
and therefore the sections of the Code of Civil Procedure,
the substance of which we have given above, remained the
law of the State. For this contention petitioner relies on
Lewis v. Dunne, 134 California, 291.
The title of the act passed upon in that case is as follows:
"An act to revise the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of
California by amending certain sections, repealing others and
adding certain new sections." The act was held void under
that section of the constitution of the State which provides
that "every act shall embrace but one subject, which subject
shall be expressed in its title. . . . No law shall be revised or amended by reference to its title; but in such case the
act revised or section amended shall be reenacted and published at length as revised or amended." The decision was
rendered upon a petition for mandamus to a judge of the
Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco, but
what action to command does not appear. The petitioner,
however, contended that both the title and body of the act
showed that the act was intended to be, and was, a revision of
the code, and therefore invalid, because the law revised was
not "reenacted and published at length as revised." The
court said it could see no sufficient answer to the contention.
That contention is not made in the case at bar. The act of
1893 reenacted and published at length the sections amended
and isconfined to their amendment. But the act passed upon

ROSS v. AGUIRRE.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in Lewis v. Dunne, was also held void because its title did not
express its subject-nor, indeed, any subject. "It is apparent," the court said, "that the language of the title of the act
in question, in and of itself, expresses no subject whatever."
The words "in and of itself" were used to distinguish an expression of the subject by "reference," and the reference, it
was said, was really not to the title of any former act; it was
merely to "the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of California." It was asked "Now, what is the Code of Civil Procedure? It is merely a name given to a large part of the
general laws of the State. The part of the great body of our
laws which is to be found under that name is not confined to
any particular subject or subjects, but includes substantive
law, criminal law and legislation that might be properly classed
under any category whatever, as well as 'civil procedure.'
The reference, therefore, was not to one subject but to many,
and the revising act dealt, the court said, "with a vast variety
of subjects," many of which were "totally distinct from each
other;" and many of them had "no relation to civil procedure,
while others were partly procedure and partly substantive law
-declaration as to personal and property rights." These
observations are certainly not applicable to the act of 1893.
That amends sections 204, 205, 206 and 208 by designating
them, and re6nacts and publishes them at length. It has but
one purpose and contains but one subject. It amends particular sections; it does not revise a whole code.
In People v. Parvin,74 California, 549, an act was considered
with the following title: "An act to amend section 3481 of the
Political Code." The case was not unqualifiedly approved in
Lewis v. Dunne. It was not, however, overruled, and it seems
to be an irresistible conclusion from the action of the Supreme
Court of the State in denying the application of petitioner,
that the act of 1893 was not ruled by Lewis v. Dunne and was
not void under the constitution of the State. We accept the
conclusion. It has stipport, if it need any, in In re Beach,
v. Von Delten, Auditor of San JoaquinCounty, 139 California,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Parties.

191 U. S.

462, decided by the Supreme Court of California, June 26, 1903,
where it was held (we quote from the syllabus) that "the title
of an amendatory act which gives the title of the original act
in full and the number of the section in its amended form is
sufficient." People v. Parvin, supra, was cited, and it was
observed that that case was discussed in Lewis v. Dunne, "and
distinguished but not overruled." And it was also observed
that the Parvin case had been approved in Francaisv. Somps,
92 California, 503.
Order affirmed. Mandate forthwith.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA AND GULF R. R. CO. v. McDADE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 26. Submitted October 14, 1903-Decided Nbovember 2, 1903.
It is the duty of a railroad company to use due care to provide a reasonably safe place and safe appliances for the use of workmen in its employ. It is obliged to use the same degree of care to provide properly
constructed roadbed, structures and track to be used in the operation
of the road.
The servant has a right to assume that the master has used due diligence
in providing suitable appliances for the operation of his business and
does not assume the risk of the employer's negligence in making such
provision.
While an employ6 who continues without objection in his master's employ with knowledge of a defective apparatus assumes the hazard incident to the situation, unless the evidence plainly shows the assumption
of the risk, it is a question properly left to the jury.

THE facts appear in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J. W. McLoud for plaintiff in error.
I Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh for defendant in error.

