OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Parties.

191 U. S.

prior to said time, [of definite location] any of said sections or
parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed
of, other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,"
etc. This view was established in an elaborate opinion. The
case, therefore, like Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R., decided
only that lands did not pass by the grant which were reserved
from it. An evident proposition, whatever might have been
the difficulties in determining what lands were reserved. And
there were difficulties. This court in consequence divided in
opinion. But those difficulties do not confront us in the case
at bar. They are settled, and in their settlement no doubts
were cast upon the efficacy of the grants to convey title to all
the lands they covered-to all that were not reserved from
them.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER concurs in the judgment.

TOLTEC RANCH COMPANY v. BABCOCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
49.
N-To.

Argued November 3, 1903.-Decided December 21, 1903.

Adverse possession under claim of right for the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations of the State of Utah after the act granting the land
and before a patent has been issued by the United States to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company for a part of its land grant within that State,
and not within its right of way, will prevail against the patent.

TE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts for plaintiff in error. Mr. Lindsay R.
Rogers and Mr. T. D. Johnson were on the brief.
Mr. B, H. Jones for defendant in error, submitted.

TOLTEC RANCH CO. v. BABCOCK.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCm McKEN-A delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error is a corporation, and brought this action in
1899 in the District Court of the First Judicial District of the
State of Utah, county of Box Elder, for the recovery of the
possession of sixty-four acres of land in section 17, township 11,
north of range 2 west. The plaintiff alleged title in fee. The
answer alleged that defendant, William Babcock, held the land
as agent of his wife Louisa Babcock, who settled upon it as a
homesteader, having the qualifications thereof, in 1867, erected
improvements of the value of $1500, and that the land was
reserved from the grant of the Central Pacific Railroad Company. The answer also alleged continuous adverse possession
for thirty years under the statutes of Utah. The replication
admitted Louisa Babcock had been in exclusive possession for
thirty years, neither admitted nor denied that the land was
within the grant to the Railroad Company, denied the value
of the improvements, and denied also that the action was barred
by the sections of the statute of limitations cited by the defendant's answer.
Louisa Babcock intervened. She denied the allegations of
the plaintiff, set up her settlement as a homesteader and the
rights acquired by exclusive and adverse possession under
sections 2858 to 2872, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes of
Utah. She also alleged that "on the 5th day of September,
1896, under a mistake and entirely without authority of law,
a patent of the United States was issued purporting to convey
to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, under the acts of
Congress granting lands to the Pacific railroads, the lands in
controversy." And she prayed that "said patent be annulled
and set aside, and for such other and further relief as may be
just."
The plaintiff, answering the complaint in intervention, admitted the issuance of the patent, but denied all other allegations.
There was also an action brought by the Toltec Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

against Babcock for hay and alfalfa seed alleged to have been
grown upon the land. The answer raised the issues presented
in the ejectment case.
The plaintiff depended for title upon a patent issued to the
Central Pacific Railroad Company the 5th of September, 1896,
in pursuance of the acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, and July 2,
1864, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120; 13 Stat. 356, c. 216, and a conveyance
from the company to it by deed dated November 4, 1897.
Against this title adverse possession was claimed as we have

seen.
The cases were tried together and to a jury, which found
"the issues in favor of the defendants and against the plaintiff,

'no cause of action."'

Judgment was entered for defendants.

It was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State on appeal.
66 Pac. Rep. 876.
The court concluded its opinion as follows: "From the foregoing considerations, and from a careful examination of the
proof, we are of the opinion that the intervenor is entitled to
hold the land in controversy, and the crops raised thereon, by
adverse possession, and that, as against the plaintiff, she has
the absolute title thereto. We see nothing in the record which
justifies a reversal. The judgment is affirmed, with costs."
This writ of error was allowed by the Chief Justice of Utah.
It presents the same questions which have been decided in
Toltec Ranch Company v. Cooki et al.,ante, p. 532. On the
authority of that case, therefore, the
Judgment is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN

concurs in the judgment.

