OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

of that situation is to be presumed. The first action taken by
the plaintiffs after the removal was a motion to remand, based
not on account of any defect in the averments of citizenship
but simply in respect to the amount in controversy. A month
after filing this motion they sought to amend it by including
an objection on account of a defect in the allegations of diverse
citizenship, and immediately thereafter the defendant moved
to amend the petition for removal so as to make it sufficient
in that respect. All these things took place before any action
had been had in the Federal court on the merits of the case.
It may also be noticed that the state court apparently recognized the removal proceedings as sufficient, for it took no further steps in the case, and hence we need not inquire
what would have been the effect of any action taken by it in
disregard of the removal. Clearly the plaintiffs were not prejudiced. The case was one which the appellee had a right to
remove, and nothing had been done to prejudice thq rights of
the plaintiffs before the petition for removal was perfected.
It seems to us, therefore, that this is a case in which the amendment was properly allowed.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
MEXICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CORT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW

No. 20. Argued October 14,1903.-Decided November 9,1903.

Where, in an action by the United States against a railroad corporation

for the conversion of logs cut from government lands, the defendant
admits the taking but justifies its action under a statute permitting it
of
to take timber for construction aud repair of its railway, the burden

proving that the logs were taken and used in accordance with the statute is upon the defendant. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Lewis, 162 U.
8. 366.

UNUrED STATIES v. 1NVER & R. G. R. R.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

This burden cannot be shifted to the plaintiff because the timber was cut
by an agent of the defendant. The presumption attaching to public
officers that they act within the scope of their authority does not apply
to agents of private persons sued for conversion.
THIS was an action of trover brought by the United States
against the railroad company for the value of certain logs out
upon the plaintiff's lands. The declaration averred simply that
the "defendant converted to its own use plaintiff's goods;

that is to say, logs, lumber and timbers, .

.

.

manufactured

out of trees theretofore standing and growing upon certain
lands of the plaintiff," therein described.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, issue was joined, the case
tried before a jury, which was instructed to return a verdict
for the defendant.
The case was submitted upon an agreed statement of facts,
which showed that the New Mexico Lumber Company cut
from the lands described in the declaration 2,100,000 feet of
lumber, which was furnished to and received by the railroad
company for its use.
Upon these facts, and proof of the ownership of the lands,
and of the value of the lumber cut, the plaintiff rested.
The defendant also offered an agreed statement of facts, in
which it appeared that it was the successor of the Denver and
Rio Grande Railway Company, and that by act of Congress
of June 8, 1872, c. 35-, 17 Stat. 339, and amendatory act of
March 3, 1877, c. 126, 19 Stat. 405, "the right of way over
the public domain

.

.

and the right to take from the

public lands adjacent thereto, stone, timber, earth, water, and
other material required for the construction and repair of its
railway and telegrap4 line," was granted to the Rio Grande
Railway Company, of which the defendant was entitled to the
benefit. The amendatory act of 1897 merely extended the
time for the completion of the railway from five to ten years,
and is not material to this controversy. Defendant also offered
testimony showing the appointment of the New Mexico Lumber Company as its agent for the cutting of such timber for
the purposes mentioned, and that the lumber delivered to the
railroad company was furnished upon specific orders given to

OJTOBtR TER9, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

101 U. S.

the Lumber Company as its agents. There were other facts
included in the statement which are immaterial upon this writ
of error.
No testimony was offered by either party tending to show
whether the timber out from the lands and received by the defendant was required for the construction and repair of its
railway and telegraph line.
The jury, under instructions of the court, returned a verdict
of not guilty, and judgment was entered for the defendant,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 66 Pac. Rep. 550.
The case was first tried in 1897, a verdict for plaintiff returned, the case carried to the Supreme Court, which reversed
the judgment of the court below upon the ground of erroneous
instructions with respect to the burden of proof. 9 N. Mex.
382.
2Mr. Xarsden a Burch for the United States.
I. The lower courts erred in refusing to direct a verdict for
plaintiff and in directing a verdict for defendant. All of the
facts which would warrant such an instruction were not denied
but were included in the agreed facts,viz., that the lands from
which the timber was cut were lands of the United States; that
the timber was delivered to the defendant for its use; and the
value of the lumber. The defence relied upon was simply the
two acts of Congress which were not so pleaded as to permit
the defendant successfully to rely upon them. Assuming that
the government's contention with respect to it is correct, the
court should have directed the verdict as requested by counsel
for the government. The direction to the jury to find a verdict for the defendant is based upon the jholding that the burden of proof was upon the government to show that the lumber was not used for the purposes contemplated by the acts
of Congress, under which the defendant claimed a license, the
government not having introduced any evidence to show such
a misuser.
II. In holding that under the plea of "Not guilty" the defendant could put the statutes of June 8, 1872, and March 3,
1877, in evidence under which the defendant sought to justify

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &R. G. R. R.
191 U. S.

87

Argument for Defendant in ErTor.

the admitted taking by claiming the right to take timber for
certain specified purposes. But no proper foundation was laid
for such a defence by the mere "Not guilty." In trover, all
matters of confession and avoidance must be specially pleaded.
License from the plaintiff must be specially pleaded. 1 Ohitty,
655. Where a party has occasion to rely on a private statute,
he must setforth, such parts of it as are material. Stephen on
Pleading, par. 347. Leave and license must bespeciallypleaded.
Ency. PI. & Pr. vol. 1, p. 848.
The code of New Mexico prescribes certain short forms of
pleas. Par. 53 gives a short form of a denial of the wrong alleged, "Not guilty!' That was the plea adopted by the defendant. Par. 54 is a plea of confession and avoidance and is
the one that should have been used. It is "that he did what
is complained of by plaintiff's leave?' The form given in
par. 54 is a short form of special plea. For interpretation of
like statutes, see .Xack v. Lancashire Ins. Co., 1 Fed. Rep. 193;
Walker v. Flint, 11 Fed. Rep. 31 ; Clifordv. Dam, 81 N. Y.
53.
III. The burden of proof was not upon the government to
show that the timber taken was not used for purposes specified
in the act of Congress; if it were the government would be
compelled not only to prove negative matters, but matters
resting peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant.
United States v. Gumm, decided by New Mexico Supreme
Court, 1889 ; Starkie on Evidence, par. 509 ; Commissioners v.
To'wle, 138 Mass. 490; Stone v. United State&, 64 Fed. Rep.
667; Selma, Rome & .Dalton R'y. v. United States, 139 U. S.
560 ; .Yorther Paeific
g-y.
v. Lewi8, 162 U. S. 366, directly
decisive of this question.
.Mr. T'oel F. Vaile, with whom .1. Edward 0. Wolcott,
.Mr. Charles Waternen and M'. .dward .. Bartlett were on
the brief, for defendant in errdr:
I. The declaration was modeled after the New Mexico
statute and defendant drew its plea in accordance therewith.
By express provision of the statute the plaintiff, under its declaration as framed, could raise any issue and introduce any

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Axgument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

evidence that could be introduced under any common law
form of declaration in trover and conversion, and as defendant's plea was in form prescribed by the statute, it was sufficient to permit it to offer any evidence which could have been
introduced under such form of plea at common law. As the
action was modeled upon a special statute, the government
cannot insist that the common law rules of pleading have any
applicability whatever.
The sufficiency of the plea was reviewed upon the first writ
of error in this case in the Supreme Court of New Mexico,
and its sufficiency was necessarily, although not expressly, settled by theformer decision. .D. & C. 1. R. Co. v. United States,
9 N. M. 382, 386. No contention was made as to the insufficiency of these pleadings upon the first trial and the decision
on that first review concluded a consideration of it in the second review. 2 Van Vleet's Former Adjudication (1895), 1321
-22; Davisv. .MeCorlcle, !1 Bush (Kentucky), '746; fHenderson
v. lenderson, 3 Hare, 115; Bradelbanev. C]andos, 2 M. & 0.
711. The defendant's plea was sufficient at common law. 2
Greenleaf on Evidence, 96, par. 648; ltickols v. .inn., etc.,
Xfg. Co., '0o innesota, 528; Johnsonz v. Tilliams, 48 Vermont, 565, 570; Wallace v. 1obb, 3'1 Iowa, 192.
II. The burden of proof was properly held to be upon the
government to show that the timber was used for purposes
not contemplated by the act of Congress.
The declaration was in the most general terms, and must
in law be interpreted as charging a wrongful conversion of
this property, and it was correctly decided that the "sole issue
is, whether a wrongful conversion has been committed ?"
D. &, R. G. v. United States, 9 N. M. 382-386.
III. The government must prove that the defendant exceeded the limits of its authority in taking the timber, or that
having taken it for specified purposes, it was illegally misused.
Until the plaintiff shows some element of wrongfulness, the
defendant must be presumed to have acted within its lawful
rights. In actions of trover the burden of proof is upon the
plaintif'to show the wrongful taking. Cooper v. Chitty, 1
Burrows, 20, 31; ZeywortA v. Hfill, 3 B. & A. 687 ; Bur-

UNITED STATES v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

roughs v. Bayne, 5 Hurls. & N. 296; Pillot v. Wilkinson,
2 Hurls & N. 72; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence (16th ed.), 148;
6 Wait's Actions and Defenses (1879), pp. 44,70, 129, 142, 163,
221; Burn ham v. Noyes, 125 XMassachusetts, 85; Bast v.
Dillon, 27 S.W. Rep. 497; Wari'ng v. Penn. 1?. R. Co., 76 Pa.
St. 491, 496 ; 1 Ohitty on Pleading (16th Am. ed.), pp. 165,
172; Addison on Torts (Wood's ed. 1878), pp. 554, 556.
IV. In all cases of trover the plaintiff must first establish'
the wrongf.ulness of the conversion before he is entitled to
put the defendant upon proof. Some authorities hold that
the burden of establishing a special grant, right, license or
privilege is upon the party asserting such grant, right, license or
privilege, but they also hold that when such right or license
is established, the presumption of law is that it has been
properly exercised, and the burden is upon the other party.
United States v. Peder,69 Fed.,Rep. 965. UnitedStates v. D. &
R. G., 31 Fed. Rep. 889, was overruled in 34 Fed. Rep. 858,
and 150 U. S. 1.
Mr. JusTIcE BROWNr, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
As plaintiff alleged simply a conversion of logs, and de.
fendant pleaded the general issue of not guilty, plaintiffs made
aprima favie case by proving their ownership of the lands,
the cutting and asportation of the timber, its value and its
subsequent possession by the defendant. Here they were entitled to rest, and did rest. They were under no obligation to
put in the special acts of Congress, nor could defendant compel their introduction by them.
By the laws of New Mexico of 1889 certain forms of
pleadings are prescribed, including forms of pleas in actions
for wrongs, one of which is that the defendant "is not guilty
of the wrong alleged," and another "that he did what is
complained of by the defendant's" (mistake for plaintiff's)
"leave."
Whether it was competent, under the plea of not guilty, to
introduce the special acts of Congress in question we do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

find it necessary to decide, but assuming that the defense could
be made, it is clear that upon the introduction of the statute
of 1872 it became necessary for the defendant to assume the
burden of producing evidence tending to show that the public
lands were adjacent to the right of way, and that the timbers
cut were required for the construction or repair of its railway
or telegraph line. This is not a question of pleading, but of
the order of proof. There was a question of adjacency made
in the court below which is not pressed here, and the case was
argued substantially upon the question as to which party had
the burden of showing the purpose for which the timber was
cut.
Except in a single particular, hereinafter noticed, we think
this case is practically controlled, with respect to the burden
of proof, by that of the Northern Paolfw 1R. 1?. Co. v. Lewis,
162 U. S. 366, decided in 1896. That was an action against
the railroad company for negligence in burning certain cordwood belonging to the plaintiffs. To prove ownership, plaintiffs showed that they had entered upon a portion of the unsurveyed lands of the United States, chopped about 10,000
cords from the timber thereon standing, and that after it was
cut it was piled up near the railroad. For authority to cut
the wood plaintiffs relied upon an act of Congress of June 3,
1878, 20 Stat. 88, the first section of which authorized bona
Jde residents of the State to fell and remove, for building, agricultural, mining or other domestic purposes, timber growing
on the public lands, "said lands being mineral and not subject
to entry under the existing laws of the United States, except
for mineral entry, . . . subject to such rules and regulations
as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe." Plaintiffs insisted that, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary,
the presumption was that when they cut the timber they complied with and came under the conditions provided for in this
act, and that the burden rested upon the defendant to show
that the conditions mentioned in the act had not been complied with by them. The court held that if plaintiffs had
acquired the right, by reason of a compliance with the statute,
the facts should have been shown by them; that the presump-

UNITED STATES v. DENVER & R. G. R.R.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion was that the cutting was illegal, and that the burden of
proof was upon the plaintiffs to show the facts which brought
them within the statute of 1878.
In United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591, which was an action
of replevin to recover possession of certain logs cut by Indians
upon a reservation, and sold to Cook, it was held that the Indians, having only the right of occupancy, could not cut the
timber for the purposes of sale, and that it was incumbent on
the purchaser to show that the timber was rightfully severed
from the lands.
The only feature distinguishing the case under consideration from that of Lewis is that the timber was cut, not by
the defendant corporation, but by the New Mexico Lumber
Company acting as its agent, and was subsequently furnished
and delivered to the defendant. It is insisted that there is a
presumption that the agent, having authority to cut, acted
within the scope of his authority, and that this would of itself throw upon the plaintiff the burden of showing that it
had not. Although a presumption of this kind may attach
to the acts of public officers, we know of no case holding
that a party sued for a conversion by his agent may shield
himself under a presumption that the agent acted within the
scope of his authority. If the burden of proof would rest
upon the defendant to show the cutting of timber for a proper
purpose, evidently it could not shift that burden upon the
plaintiff by employing an agent to do the work.
Upon principle, as well as upon authority, a party who has
been shown to be p'ima facie guilty of a trespass, and relies
upon a license, must exhibit his license and prove that his acts
were justified by it. The practical injustice of a different rule
is manifest. It would require the plaintiff not only to establish a negative, that is, that the timber was not cut for the purpose of construction and repair, but to establish it by testimony
peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant. As the cutting in this case was done by agents and servants of the defendant, it would impose upon the plaintiff a difficult if not an
impossible task to require them to show that the timber was
not cut for the construction or repair of the railway, though

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

evidence that it was so cut could be readily produced by the
defendant. It is a general rule of evidence, noticed by the elementary writers upon that subject, 1 Greenl. Ev. sec. 79,
"that where the subject matter of a negative averment lies
peculiarly within the knowledge of the other party, the averment is taken as true, unless disproved by that party." When
a negative is averred in pleading, or plaintiffs case depends
upon the establishment of a negative, and the means of proving the fact are equally within the control of each party, then
the burden of proof is upon the party averring the negative;
but when the opposite party must, from the nature of the case,
himself be in possession of full and plenary proof to disprove
the negative averment, and the other party is not in possession of such proof, then it is manifestly just and reasonable
that the party which' is in possession of the proof should be
required to adduce it; or, upon his failure to do so, we must
presume it does not exist, which of itself establishes a negative.
Great Tester 1. R. Co. v. Bacon, 30 Illinois, 347; Zing v.
Turner, 5 M,. & S. 206. Familiar instances of this are where
persons are prosecuted for doing a business, such, for instance,
as selling liquor without a license. It might be extremely difficult for the prosecution in this class of cases to show that the
defendant had not the license required, whereas the latter may
prove it without the slightest difficulty. In such cases thelaw
casts upon the defendant not only the burden of producing his
license, but of showing that it was broad enough to authorize
the acts complained of. Commonwealth v. Raferty, 133 Massachusetts, 574; Commonwealth v. Towle, 138 M assachusetts,
490. As the license (the statute in this case) authorized the
timber to be cut only for a specific purpose, aid the means of
proof, as to the purpose for which the timber was cut, were
peculiarly within the knowledge and control of the defendant,
we think the burden of producing evidence to that effect devolved upon it.
This burden, however, which was simply to meet the Prima
facie case of the government, must not be confounded with
the preponderance of evidence the establishment of which
usually rests upon the plaintiff. H7einernan v. Heard,62 N. Y.

EX PARTE JOINS.
191 U. S.

Counsel for Petitioner.

448 ; lilett v. Rich, 14.2 Iassachusetts, 356; Wilder v. Cowe,,
100 Massachusetts, 487; Central Bridge Corporationv. Butler,
2 Gray,-130. If this were a criminal case it would undoubtedly
rest on the government upon the whole evidence to satisfy the
jury beyond a reasonable doubt that the timber was not cut
for the construction or repair of the railway.
While the Supreme Court of New XNexico upon this second
writ of error may have considered itself bound by its decision
upon the question here involved upon the first writ as the law
of the case, we are not ourselves restrained by the same limitation. As its judgment upon the first writ was merely for a
reversal of the court below and for a new trial, such judgment, not being final, could not be made the subject of a writ
of error from this court. Upon the present writ, however, we
are at liberty to revise the action of the court below in both
instances.
There was error in requiring plaintiff to assume the burden
of showing that the timber was not cut for purposes of construction or repair, and
The judgment of the Supreme Court is therefore reversed,
and the case remanded to that court with instructionsto
order a new trial.

Ex parte JOINS.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND FOR CERTIORARI
AGAINST THE CHOCTAW AND CHICKASAW CITIZENSHIP COURT.
No. 12. Original. Argued October 19.-Decided November 9,1903.
A writ of prohibition will not be issued to an inferior court in respect of
a cause which is finished.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M3r. Calvin L. Herbert,with whom Ar. William
was on the brief, for petitioner;

. Cruqe

