OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

KINNEY v. COLUMBIA SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.
No. 102. Submitted October 13,

03.-Decided November 9,1903.

Petitions and bonds for removal are in the nature of process. Where a
petition for removal otherwise sufficient contains a general averment of
diverse citizenship with a specific and full averment of defendant's citizenship and the requisite diverse citizenship of the plaintiff may also reasonably be inferred from the record, the Circuit Court has power, before
any action has been had on the merits in the Federal courts or any steps
taken in the state courts after the removal, to permit the petition to
be amended by the addition of specific and complete averments of the
citizenship of the plaintiff.
ON August 25, 1899, appellants commenced this suit in the
District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. By it plaintiffs
sought an accounting and the cancellation of a deed of trust
executed by them to a trustee for the benefit of the defendant. The complaint alleged that "the defendant was and now
is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Colorado." The deed of trust (copied in the complaint) was executed November 22, 1890, and purports to be
"between Antoinette B. Kinney and Clesson S. Kinney, her
husband, of the county of Salt Lake and Territory of Utah,
parties of the first part; and Clyde J. Eastman" named as
trustee. It was executed before a notary public in Salt Lake

County.
On September 2, 1899, the defendant filed a petition and
bond for removal to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Utah. That petition alleged:
"Your petitioner, The Columbia Savings and Loan Association, respectfully shows to this honorable court that the
matter and amount in dispute in the above-entitled suit exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of two
thousand dollars.

KINNEY v. COLUMBIA SAVINGS &c. ASSN.
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"That the controversy in said suit is between citizens of
different States, and that your petitioner, the defendant in
the above-entitled suit, was, at the time of the commencement of the suit, and still is, a resident and a citizen of the city
of Denver and State of Colorado."
On November 28, 1899, the plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the cause to the state court on the ground, that "the
amount or matter in dispute therein does not, and at the time
said cause was removed from the state court, did not, exceed
the sum or value of $2,000, exclusive of interest and costs."
On the same day the defendant filed in the Circuit Court an
answer and cross complaint, by the latter seeking a foreIn the cross complaint it
closure of the trust deed.
alleged "that it is a corporation, organized and existing under the laws of the State of Colorado, and is a citizen of
said State, and that complainants herein are citizens and residents of Salt Lake City, State of Utah."
On December 30, 1899, the plaintiffs gave notice of a motion to amend their motion to remand, by adding as a further
ground "that the diverse citizenship of the parties at the time
of the commencement of the suit, and at the time of the removal of said cause from the state court, does not appear upon
the record."
On January 2, 1900, the defendant gave notice of a motion
to amend the paragraph heretofore quotedfrom its cross complaint to read as follows:
"First. That your orator, at the time of the commencement of this suit, was and ever since then, and now is, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Colorado, and a citizen and resident of
the city of Denver and State of Colorado, and that the said
plaintiffs, Antoinette B. Kinney and Clesson S. Kinney, at the
time of the commencement of this suit, were, and ever since
have been, and still are, citizens of the State of Utah, and residents thereof, residing at the city of Salt Lake in the said
State of Utah."

OCT1OBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

191 U. S.

And also notice of a motion to amend the petition for removal by adding this allegation:
"That the plaintiffs, Antoinette B. Kinney and Clesson S.
Kinney, and each of them, were, at the time of the commencement of this suit, and still are, citizens and residents of the
city of Salt Lake and State of Utah."
On January 6,1900, the motion to remand was denied, and
leave given to amend the petition for removal and the cross
complaint. Subsequently the case went to trial in the Circuit
Court and a decree was rendered in favor of the defendant
for the recovery of $1,003.45 and the foreclosure of the trust
deed. From such decree an appeal .was allowed to. this court
upon the single question of jurisdiction.
Mr. Charles S. Varian and Mr. Franklin S. Richards for
appellants.
Mr. J. Norman for appellee.
Mr. JusTrcs

BREwn, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Had the Federal court the power to permit the amendment
of the petition for removal? The suit was removable. Diverse citizenship in fact existed and the amount in controversy
was over $2,000. The right to remove existed, but the petition
for removal was defective. If it had been sufficient there
would have been no need of amendment. The question is
whether it was so defective as to be incurable. In other
words, was the case one in which the court had power to permit the facts to be stated in order to secure to the defendant
the removal to vhich it had a right? By section 1 of chap. 866,
25 Stat. 434, jurisdiction is given to the Circuit Courts of
all suits of a civil nature "where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of $2,000,"
and "in which there shall be a controversy between citizens
of different States." By section 2 of the same act any such
suit pending in a state court may be removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by the defendant or defendants

KINNEY v. COLUMBIA SAVINGS &c. ASSN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

if non-residents. The petition for removal, which was duly
verified, alleged the existence of just such a suit. True, this
court, construing the statute, has held that the difference of
citizenship must exist both at the comfaencement of the suit
and at the filing of the petition for removal. Gbson v. Bruce,
108 U. S. 561; Akers v. Akers, 117 U. S. 197; Stevens v.
Nichols, 130 U. S. 230. But this does not change the fact
that the language of the petition follows that of the statute in
stating the existence of that which the statute makes the basis
of a right of removal.
It is also true that when a record presented to this court
fails to show a diversity of citizenship, both when the suit was
commenced and when the petition for removal was filed, a reversal has been ordered and the case sent back to the Circuit
Court with directions to remand to the state court. Stephens
v. Nichols, supra; Crehore v. Ohio c c. By. Co., 131 U. S.
240; Jackson v. Allen, 132 U. S. 27; La Conjflance Compagnie
Anonyme d 'Assurance v. Hall, 137 U. S. 61; Kellam v. Keith,
144 U. S. 568; Mlattingly v. N. W. Va. R. 1?. Co., 158 U. S.
53. In none of these cases does it appear that the defect was
noticed in the Circuit Court, and in some not noticed by the
parties after the case had reached this court, but action was
taken here by virtue of the duty resting on all Federal courts
not to entertain jurisdiction, if it does not affirmatively appear. It is also true that in Crehore v. Ohio &c.Ry.Co., supra,
this court was asked to grant leave to the Circuit Court to permit an amendment of the defective removal proceedings, and
the application was denied, but that was after the case had
been finally disposed of in the Circuit Court and the insufficiency of the removal papers had been declared by this. Here
the application was made shortly after the filing of the removal
papers and before any action had been taken in the Circuit
Court. The amendment was allowed by the Circuit Court,
and the question now to determine is whether that court had
power to permit such amendment. It is frequently stated that
amendments are within the discretion of the trial court, and
that unless it appears that the discretion has beext abused no
error is shown.
VOL. OxcI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court

191 U. S.

A petition and bond for removal are in the nature of process. They constitute the process by which the case is transferred from the state to the Federal court. Congress has made
ample provision for the amendment of process. Section 948,
Rev. Stat., reads:
"Any Circuit or District Court may at any time, in its discretion, and upon such terms as it may deem just, allow an
amendment of any process returnable to or before it, where
the defect has not prejudiced, and the amendment will not injure, the party against whom such process issues."
And by section 954 it is provided that"No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment
or other proceedings in civil causes, in any court of the United
States, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed for any.
defect or want of form,

.

.

and may at any time permit

either of the parties to am'end any defect in the process or
pleadings, upon such conditions as it shall, in its discretion
and by its rules, prescribe."
The question of the power of amendment has been decided
by this court in several cases. In Parker v. Overman, 18
How. 137, a petition for removal was defective in that it
simply alleged residence and not citizenship, but was corrected,
over objection, by amendment in the Federal court, and, as
said by Mr. Justice Grier (p. 111):
"In the petition to remove this case from the state court,
there was not a proper averment as to the citizenship of the
plaintiff in error. It alleged that Parker ' resided' in Tennessee and White in Maryland. 'Citizenship' and ' residence'
are not synonymous terms; but as the record was afterwards
so amended as to show conclusively the citizenship of the parties, the court below had, and this court has, undoubted jurisdiction of the case."
In Carsonv. Dunham, 121 U. S.421, the application for removal was based on two grounds: One, diverse citizenship,
and the other, the existence of a Federal question. The allegation in respect to the Federal question was general, and
did not state the facts. After the case had been entered in the
Federal court an answer was filed, stating more fully the facts

KINNEY v. COLUMBIA SAVINGS &c. ASSN.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

upon which the existence of a Federal question was based.
MIr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said, in reference to this answer (p. 427):
"The answer was filed, which, for the purposes of jurisdiction, may fairly be treated as an amendment to the petition
for removal, setting forth the facts from which the conclusions
there stated were drawn. As an amendment, the answer was
germane to the petition, and did no more than set forth in
proper form what had before been imperfectly stated."
It is true that this court, on examination of the record, found
that no Federal question was even then disclosed, but that
does not alter the ruling that an amendment was proper showing the facts upon which the general averment of a Federal
question was based. Grace v. American Central Insurance
Company, 109 U. S. 278, 285, seems to recognize the right of
amendment. The same may be said of Thayer v. Life Associatiom, 112 U. S. 717, 720. Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646,
was a suit originally commenced in the United States Circuit
Court. It failed to allege diverse citizenship, but no objection
was made in the court below on that ground, and while this
court reversed the judgment, it sent the case back with leave
to amend the petition in respect to the allegation of citizenship.
The case relied upon in the opinion was torgages EFxecutor v.
Gay, 19 Wall. 81, in which the same ruling had been made.
These cases recognize the power of the Circuit Court to permit
amendment of pleadings to show diverse citizenship and of
removal proceedings where there is a technical defect and
there are averments sufficient to show jurisdiction.
The facts here disclosed clearly show a case in which an
amendment was rightfully made. The citizenship of the defendant, both at the time the suit was commenced and when
the petition for removal was filed, was clearly and positively
stated. There was a general averment that it was a case of
diverse citizenship, and, therefore, one in which by the statute
the party was entitled to a removal. The trust deed, which
was the subject matter of the controversy, showed upon its
face that the plaintiffs were of Salt Lake County, and was executed before a notary public in that county-. The continuance

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

of that situation is to be presumed. The first action taken by
the plaintiffs after the removal was a motion to remand, based
not on account of any defect in the averments of citizenship
but simply in respect to the amount in controversy. A month
after filing this motion they sought to amend it by including
an objection on account of a defect in the allegations of diverse
citizenship, and immediately thereafter the defendant moved
to amend the petition for removal so as to make it sufficient
in that respect. All these things took place before any action
had been had in the Federal court on the merits of the case.
It may also be noticed that the state court apparently recognized the removal proceedings as sufficient, for it took no further steps in the case, and hence we need not inquire
what would have been the effect of any action taken by it in
disregard of the removal. Clearly the plaintiffs were not prejudiced. The case was one which the appellee had a right to
remove, and nothing had been done to prejudice thq rights of
the plaintiffs before the petition for removal was perfected.
It seems to us, therefore, that this is a case in which the amendment was properly allowed.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
MEXICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CORT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW

No. 20. Argued October 14,1903.-Decided November 9,1903.

Where, in an action by the United States against a railroad corporation

for the conversion of logs cut from government lands, the defendant
admits the taking but justifies its action under a statute permitting it
of
to take timber for construction aud repair of its railway, the burden

proving that the logs were taken and used in accordance with the statute is upon the defendant. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Lewis, 162 U.
8. 366.

