OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

is complained of amounts to the enforcement of the laws of a
State applicable to all persons in like circumstances and conditions, and that the Federal courts should not interfere unless
there is some abuse of law amounting to confiscation of property or a deprivation of personal rights, such as existed in the
case of Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269.
These principles have been reiterated in a series of cases
reported in 181 U. S., commencing with French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., at page 324 of that volume.
The facts contained in the objection now under discussion do
not, in our judgment, constitute any violation of the Federal
Constitution or result in the taking of the property of the plaintiff in error without due process of law, as that term is understood, when used in the Constitution of the United States.
We see no error in the record in this case which we can review,
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE WHITE concurred in the result.

CHOCTAW, OKLJAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY
v. TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 67. Submitted November 10, 1903-Decided November301903.

Where it appears by an examination of the entire charge to the jury that
the court understood the true rule as to defendant's liability and the jury
were informed of the limitations thereon, no exceptions being taken except to a single detached remark, and no request being made to the court
to restate the rule with his attention called to the defective portion of
his charge, the judgment will not be reversed because in certain detached
and incidental remarks made in regard to defendant's liability the court
failed to state the proper limitation of liability, it also appearing that
the remarks were used under such circumstances as made it absolutely
certain that the jury was not misled thereby.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. u. TENNESSEE. 327
191 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THE defendant in error commenced this action against the

railroad company, plaintiff in error, in the Pulaski Circuit Court
in the State of Arkansas, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by him by reason of the alleged negligence of
the company. He alleged in his complaint that on February 6,
1900, while engaged as head brakeman on a freight train of the
defendant company, and while in the discharge of his duty as
such, in the town of Agenta, near Little Rock, Arkansas, he
attempted to jump upon the pilot of the engine of the train
of which he was head brakeman, at a time when the engine was
proceeding very slowly (about four miles an hour) in the freight
yards. That in attempting to jump upon the pilot he stepped
on an iron stirrup or step on the pilot or "cow-catcher" of the
engine, and where in the performance of his duty he was accustomed to step, and by reason of its being in a weak and
unstable condition it gave way and precipitated him to the
ground, where he became entangled in the ties of the railroad
track and the train ran over his left leg and bruised and mangled the same so that he was compelled to have it amputated
near the knee. He alleged that the defendant was negligent.
in the construction of the step and was negligent in permittipg
it to stay in a faulty and infirm condition, and the condition
of the step was unknown to the plaintiff; that he might have
escaped uninjured but for the negligent construction of the
track, the ties of which stood up above the ground, so that he
was unable to get his foot out in time to prevent the engine
from running over his leg and crushing it.
The defendant is a corporation organized and incorporated
under an act of Congress, and on that ground removed the
case into the United States Circuit Court in Arkansas, and
thereafter served its answer to the complaint. It denied all
negligence, and alleged that the plaintiff was attempting to
step upon the front end of the engine, which was unnecessary
and which was careless and improper on his part, and that he
was not required in the discharge of his duty, nor was it necessary for him to attempt to so ride, and in attempting to do

OCTOBER TERMI[, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

so he was violating the rules of the company. It denied that
the step on the pilot was in a weak and unstable condition or
that it gave way and thereby precipitated the plaintiff to the
ground, and denied that the condition of the step had anything to do with the precipitation of the plaintiff to the ground,
which resulted in his injury, and it denied that the condition
of the step was unknown to the plaintiff.
Upon these issues the case came to trial and resulted in a
verdict for the plaintiff, which, upon appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, was affirmed, 116 Fed. Rep. 23, and the
railroad company then sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Edward B. Peircefor plaintiff in error.
Mr. John W. Blackwood for defendant in error.
MR. JusTin

PECKHAM,

after making the foregoing statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
This is quite a simple case, although counsel on both sides
have exhibited very great industry in presenting in their briefs
in the greatest detail the substance of all the evidence that was
given upon the trial.
After the evidence was in a motion was made on the part of
the defendant company that the jury should be instructed to
find a verdict for the defendant, for the reason that there was
not sufficient evidence to sustain a verdict for the plaintiff.
The denial of this motion brings up the question whether there
was sufficient evidence upon which to base a recovery, and it
is upon that question that the briefs of counsel have been so
full. It is wholly unnecessary to follow counsel in their minute
details of this evidence. It is sufficient for us to say that it
tended to show the following among other facts:
He was the head brakeman of the train, and as such his
particular position, when running into freight yards like the
one at Argenta, was on the front of the 6ngine to enable him

CROOTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. TENNESSEE. 329
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to attend to the switches promptly, as they were encountered,
and to prevent the danger of running off the track; that the
only rule of the company which was promulgated and which
he ever saw in regard to the matter of riding on the pilot of the
engine was one warning the employ6s not to jump on or off an
engine when it was running at a "high rate of speed." The
plaintiff said that he had never received instructions not to
ride on the front end of the engine, but on the contrary had
often been commanded by conductors to do so; that on the
occasion of the accident the engine was moving very slowly,
not more than four miles an hour, and that when the plaintiff
attempted to board the pilot of the engine and received the
injury complained°of he was discharging his duty in the proper
and customary manner of a head brakeman under like circumstances.
The accident occurred about ten o'clock on a dark night,
and the plaintiff carried a lantern to enable him to see to properly discharge his duties in regard to switches; the pilots of
freight engines are provided with a step or stirrup on which to
place the foot, and where it is customary for the head brakeman to stand when coming into the freight yard under the
circumstances detailed, and the engine in question had such
a step or stirrup. When the plaintiff attempted on this occasion, after having attended to one of the switches, to get on
the engine, then moving about four miles an hour, he placed
his foot on the step mentioned, and it gave way or went down
under him, and his foot came to the ground under one of the
ties, the space between the ties not being filled in, and he was
unable to get it out in time to prevent being run over. This
step or stirrup had been in a defective condition for some time,
and it was so loose three or four days prior to the accident that
a witness and employ6 of the defendant had at that time
warned a fellow brakeman not to step on it because of the
condition it was then in. The plaintiff had no knowledge that
the step was out of repair or defective before the accident
occurred. This freight yard where the accident occurred had

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

been constructed a few months before and the company had
but just commenced to use it in which to park and make up its
trains; that the plaintiff, on account of some physical disability
keeping him off the road for a short period before the accident,
had run into this yard only once or twice before the accident
occurred, and was not very familiar with its condition at the
time in question. He had never been on track No. 3, where
he was hurt, until the evening of the accident, and he had no
information concerning the condition of that track prior to
I
being injured. The plaintiff testified"When I stepped on the engine, this step was on the pilot
about as wide as my hand. I stepped up on it with the hollow
of my foot and leaned over to catch hold of the top of the pilot
and my foot went down with the step, and I hallooed as soon
as it went down and fell, and I couldn't get my foot out and
the pilot run over my leg. My leg got in between the ties and
I pulled with all my might to get it out, but I seen I couldn't
get it out and just give up and let it go. My foot got hung
between the ties, between the bottom of the ties, and held it
fast. . . . I hallooed as loud as I could to make the engineer hear me, but he didn't see me. He must have felt that
the wheel of the engine hit something because he stopped the
engine right where the engineer gets up into the engine. The
step of the engine stopped right at me. I hallooed as loud as
I could. When I got my foot caught in there the train ran
over me and mashed my leg-mashed it all to pieces; broke
the bone, mashed my knee cap all to pieces. I suffered just
as near death as any man could suffer and not die. It wouldn't
have been as hard to die."
Plaintiff testified that he thought that if the track had been
filled in his foot would not have been caught and that he could
have extricated himself when the stirrup on the pilot gave way.
Other evidence was given on the part of plaintiff of the same
general nature.
On the other hand, the defendant gave evidence tending to
show that although it was customary to surface up the tracks

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. TENNESSEE. 331
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in depot yards by filling in between the ties, yet as this was a
new yard it was in the condition in which newly constructed
yards are usually left for some time to permit the water to
drain off. Evidence was also given tending to show the impropriety of the plaintiff's attempting to get on the engine
while it was in motion and that it was a violation of the rules
of the company.
Taking all the evidence we are of opinion that there was
enough to demand its submission to the jury, and if by that
body found to be true, it was enough upon which to found a
verdict for the plaintiff.
The chief ground upon which the demand for a new trial is
founded outside of the above rests upon certain portions of the
charge of the court to the jury in speaking of the law relating
to the responsibility of an employer to his servant to furnish
proper machinery and applicances for his employ6. In two
or three places, in the course of his charge to the jury upon
that subject, the court, in speaking of the testimony in regard
to the facts occurring at the time of the accident, said that
the company owed to its employ~s the duty of furnishing machinery in a reasonably safe condition and a reasonably safe
place for the servant to work in the discharge of his duties, and
a failure to do so makes the company liable in damages for any
injuries sustained by the servant while in the discharge of his
duties, if the servant's own acts of negligence do not contribute
to the accident.
The fault found with this observation is that the court should
have added that the company did not absolutely guarantee to
furnish its employ~s a reasonably safe place to work and reasonably safe machinery with which to discharge their duties,
but that it fulfilled its obligations if it observed reasonable
care to furnish its employ6s those reasonably safe places to
work, etc.
It need not be questioned that the charge of the court, without the limitation proposed, was an erroneous exposition of
the law. Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; Union Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Railway Co. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451, 457, and cases cited.
A careful reading of the charge, however, shows that upon the
particular occasions when these remarks were made the judge
was endeavoring to draw the attention of the jury more to the
question whether the defendant had in fact furnished machinery in a reasonably safe condition than to the question of
its obligation to use due diligence to furnish the same.
An exception was taken to but one of the remarks of the
court upon this particular subject, and if the defendant had
felt that there was really any danger of any misunderstanding
of the rule which should govern the jury, a request to the court
to restate the rule, with his attention specially called to the
defective portion of the charge, would without doubt have
received the immediate attention of the court and obtained
a charge upon the subject as requested. We say that, because in looking through this charge it is perfectly plain that
the court understood thetrue rule that it was necessary to show
that the company had been negligent in not taking reasonable
precautions to furnish proper machinery and appliances in order
to become liable for the injury sustained by the employ6. The
jury were told by the court that, in order to find the defendant
liable, it must determine from the evidence whether the step
or plate in front of the engine and attached to the pilot, and
which plaintiff tried to step on at the time of the accident, was
by reason of the defendant's negligence insecurely fastened,
and that by reason of its being insecurely fastened the plaintiff fell and was injured as alleged.
The court also charged the jury that, unless it was shown
by the evidence that the employer or master was guilty of
negligence in its failure to provide such a safe place for the
servant to perform his duties, as under like conditions others
in similar businesses are in the habit of furnishing, the defendant would not be liable. He further said that it was left to
the judgment of the jury to determine from the evidence
whether the railroad company was guilty of negligence in
allowing at that time and place the track to remain with the

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOiA &c. R. R. CO. v. TENNESSEE. 333
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

spaces between the cross ties unfilled, and that they were to
consider the fact that this yard had but recently been made,
and that was a pertinent fact in relation to the question of the
negligence of the company.
Again, the court at almost the end of his charge stated that
if this plate had been properly fastened when the train left for
its destination, and had been inspected at a proper and suitable
time by the defendant, and was found to be in perfect condition, and that within a short time before the accident occurred
something unknown or unforeseen had caused it to become
loose, "Then, gentlemen of the jury, they would not be guilty
of negligence, because then they would have exercised due
diligence for the purpose of ascertaining whether everything
was in perfect order."
And once more the court said:
"Now then, that you are to consider:
"If you find that it has exercised due diligence, such as any
ordinary reasonable man would exercise in matters of that
kind, then it would not be liable.
" But, on the other hand, if they had not, and it was loose, or
if it was loose at such time that by the exercise of reasonable
or ordinary diligence they could have discovered it and repaired it, and that was the cause of the accident, they have
been guilty of such negligence as makes them liable.
"Of course, so far as the railroad company is concerned, it
does not, in any event, become the insurer of its servants' or
employ6s' safety, regardless of its own diligence; all it undertakes to do is to keep the machinery and its right of way and
place where they work in good and proper order, and use such
diligence as a prudent man and careful man would use. And
the company is not liable for any defect of which an employ6
has knowledge at the time."
These observations were at the very conclusion of the charge.
We think it clearly appears that the right directions were
given to the jury in regard to the legal responsibility of the
defendant, and that the detached and incidental remarks made

OCTOBER TERUt, 1903.
191 U. S.

Syllabus.

in regard to such liability, where they failed to state the proper
limitation of liability, were used under such circumstances as
to make it absolutely certain that the jury were not misled
thereby.
Many exceptions were taken in regard to the admissibility
of evidence during the trial of the cause and to the refusal of
the court to charge as requested by the defendant. We have
examined them all and are entirely satisfied that no error was
committed by the court in the disposition it made of them.
Many of the requests to charge were covered by the charge of
the court actually given, and many others were but partially
correct and so mingled with erroneous statements of the law
as to warrant the court in rejecting them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit must, therefore, be

Affirmed.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY
v. HOLLOWAY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 68. Submitted November 10, 19O3.-Declded November 30, 1903.
If an employ6 can by the use of his eyes see that the machinery is defective he is bound by that fact, even though he has not actually observed
the defect; but a fireman who has only been six hours on an engine is
not bound to have made a careful examination of the engine, in order to
charge the company with negligence or to exonerate himself from contributory negligence.
There is no necessity for the court to call the attention of the jury to the
rule that a railroad company is only bound to exercise reasonable care to
supply a reasonably safe engine, when it appears from uncontradicted
evidence that the engine supplied was not equipped with brakes under
circumstances which made the omission prima facie evidence of negligence.
Where the company has negligently failed to equip an engine with brakes
and it is derailed by striking an obstacle which was on the track without

