OCTOBER TERAT, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

SPENCER v. DUPLAN SILK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 83. Argued December 7, 190.-Decided December 21, 1903.

A suit does not arise under the Constitution and laws of the United States
unless a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction thereof,
upon the determination of which the result depends, appears in the record
by the plaintiff's pleading.
Where jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is rested on diverse citizenship and
plaintiff relies wholly on a common law right, the fact that defendant
invokes the Constitution and laws of the United States does not make
the action one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
Where a trustee in bankruptcy commences an action in the state court its
removal on the ground of diverse citizenship places it in the Circuit Court
as if it had been commenced there on that ground of jurisdiction and
not as if it had been commenced there by consent of defendant under
section 23 of the bankruptcy act.

TIs was an action of trover commenced by plaintiff in error
in the Court of Common Pleas for the County of Lehigh, Pennsylvania, October 18,1900, the declaration averring in substance
that on January 13, 1900, certain lumber and building materials
were the property of the firm of Bennett & Rothrock, and that
by virtue of an adjudication in bankruptcy of that date plaintiff succeeded to the title of that firm to said lumber and materials, and that on January 15, 1900, defendant in error wrongfully converted the lumber and materials to its own use.
November 19, 1900, defendant in error presented its bond
and petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
the petition alleging that the controversy in the suit was wholly
between citizens of different States; that the plaintiff, trustee
in bankruptcy of Bennett and Rothrock, and Bennett and
Rothrock themselves, were at the time of the commencement

SPENCER v. DUPLAN SILK CO.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the suit, and at the time the petition for removal was presented, citizens of the State of Pennsylvania; and that the
defendant was at the time of the commencement of the suit,
and at the time the petition for removal was presented, a
citizen of New York; and thereupon the cause was removed.
The cause having been docketed and the record filed, defendant filed a plea of not guilty, and a trial was had November 11,
1901, resulting in a verdict for plaintiff for $12,183. January 15, 1902, a motion by defendant for judgment non obstante
veredicto was overruled and judgment entered in favor of
plaintiff, 112 Fed. Rep. 638, to review which defendant prosecuted a writ of error from the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, and that court on May 7, 1902,
reversed the. judgment of the Circuit Court and remanded the
cause with instructions to enter judgment for defendant on
the verdict. 115 Fed. Rep. 689. This writ of error was then
allowed.
Mr. T. M. B. Hicks, with whom Mr. William H. Spencer and
Mr. Clarence L. Peaslee were on the brief,for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Richard C. Dale and Mr. William T. C. Anderson, with
whom Mr. William J. Turner was on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. CmE
court.

JusTICE, FuLL.;

delivered the opinion of the

In our opinion the jiuisdiction of the Circuit Court depended
entirely on diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was final, and the writ of error must be dismissed. Colorado Central Consolidated Mining Company v.
Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Borgmeyer, Admr., v. Idler, 159 U. S. 408;
Press Publishing Company v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105.
The views expressed in the latter case will suffice to indicate
the governing rules. In tha case the complaint in the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.

Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Court showed that the parties were citizens of different States,
and did not claim under the Constitution or laws of the United
States. At the trial plaintiff relied wholly upon a common
law right, but defendant invoked the Constitution and laws of
the United States. Judgment having passed for plaintiff,
which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we dismissed a writ of error to that court on the ground that its
judgment was made final by the statute. Mr. Justice Gray,
delivering the opinion, said:
"Of suits of a civil nature, at law or in equity, the Circuit
Courts of the United States have original jurisdiction, by reason
of the citizenship of the parties, in cases between citizens of
different States or between citizens of a State and aliens; and
by reason of the cause of action, 'in cases arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made or
which shall be made under their authority,' including, of
course, suits arising under the patent or copyright laws of
the United States. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, ยง 1; 25
Stat. 433; Rev. Stat. ยง 629, cl. 9. In order to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of a case as one arising under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, that it does
so arise must appear from the plaintiff's own statement of
his claim. Colorado Company v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Tennessee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Oregon &c.
Railway v. Skottowe, 162 U. S. 490; Hanford v. Davies, 163
U. S. 273.
"From final judgments of the Circuit Court in civil suits an
appeal or writ of error lies to this court, or to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. It lies directly to this court in any case in which
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is in issue; and in such
case the question of jurisdiction only is certified to and decided
by this court. It also lies directly from the Circuit Court to
this court in cases involving the construction or application of
the Constitution, or the constitutionality of a law, or the validity or construction of a treaty, of the United States, or in which
the Constitution or a law of a State is claimed to be in contra-

SPENCER v. DUIPLAN SILK CO.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vention of the Constitution of the United States; and in any
of these cases the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not
limited to the constitutional question, but extends to the
determination of the whole case. Act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, section 5; 26 Stat. 827, 828; Homer v. United States,
143 U. S. 570; Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S.499.
"From final judgments of the Circuit Court in all other civil
suits an appeal or writ of error lies to the Circuit Court of Appeals; and the judgments rendered thereon by the Circuit Court
of Appeals are final (unless this court by writ of certiorari or
otherwise, orders the whole case to be brought up for its decision) in all cases in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
'is dependent entirely upon the parties being aliens and citizens
of the United States, or citizens of different States;' as well as
in cases arising under the patent laws, or under the revenue
laws. In all other civil actions (including those arising under
the copyright laws of the United States), if the matter in con:
troversy exceeds $1000, besides costs, there is, as of right, an
appeal or writ of error to bring the case to this court. Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, section 6.
"This plaintiff in error, having been defeated in the Circuit
Court, did not bring the case directly to this court, as one involving the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States, or upon any other of the grounds specified
in section 5 of the act of 1891. But it took the case, under
section 6, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and having been
again defeated in that court, now claims, as of right, a review
by this court of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
"The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals being made
final in all cases in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
is dependent entirely upon the parties being citizens of different States, but not final in cases arising under the copyright
laws of the United States, where the matter in controversy
exceeds $1000, the test of the appellate jurisdiction of this
court over the case at bar is whether it was one arising under
the copyright laws of the United States, or was one in which
VOL. cxoi-34

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court wholly depended upon the
parties being citizens of different Siates.
"The complaint, alleging that the plaintiff was a citizen of
Illinois and the defendant a citizen of New York, and claiming
damages in a sum of more than $2000, showed that the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the case by reason of the parties being
citizens of different States. The plaintiff, in her complaint,
did not claim any right under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, or in any way mention or refer to that Constitution or to those laws; and, at the trial, she relied wholly upon
a right given by the common law, and maintained her action
upon such a right only. It was the defendant, and not the
plaintiff, who invoked the Constitution and laws of the United
States. This, as necessarily follows from the foregoing considerations, and as was expressly adjudged in Colorado Co. v.
Turck, above cited, is insufficient to support the jurisdiction of
this court to review, by appeal or writ of error, the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
"The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court having been obtained
and exercised solely because of the parties being citizens of
different States, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was final, and the writ of error must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction."
In the present case it is contended that the jurisdiction was
not dependent entirely on the opposite parties to the suit being
citizens of different States, because the suit arose under the
laws of the United Sthtes, and that therefore jurisdiction rested
also on that ground. But a suit does not so arise unless it
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as
to the effect or construction of the Constitution, or validity or
construction of the laws or treaties of the United States, upon
the determination of which the result depends, and which appears in the record by plaintiff's pleading. Arbuckle v. Blackburn, ante, p. 405; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor
Railroad Co., 178 U. S.239; Muse v. Arlington Hotel Co., 168
U. S.430.

SPENCER v. DUPLAN SILK CO.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff's declaration set forth no matter raising any controversy under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States. It is true that if the lumber and materials belonged
to Bennett and Rothrock on January 13, 1900, plaintiff in
,error succeeded.to the title of the firm on the adjudication,
but the question of Bennett and Rothrock's ownership on that
day in itself involved no Federal controversy, and the mere
fact that plaintiff was trustee in bankruptcy did not give
jurisdiction. Bardes v. Bank, 178 U. S. 524. Indeed if the
case had not been removed and had gone to judgment in the
Court of Common Pleas, and that judgment had been affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania on the same grounds as
those on which the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded, a writ
of error could not have been brought under section 709 of the
Revised Statutes, for the case would not have fallen within
either of the classes enumerated in that section as the basis of
our jurisdiction. The validity of the bankruptcy act was
conceded, and no right specially set up or claimed under it
was denied.
Section 23 of the bankruptcy law does not enable us to
maintain jurisdiction. The first two clauses read (before the
amendment of February 5, 1903) as follows:
"SEC. 23a. The United States Circuit Courts shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity, as distinguished
from proceedings in bankruptcy, between trustees as such and
adverse claimants concerning the property acquired or claimed
by the trustees, in the same manner and to the same extent
only as though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted
and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and
such adverse claimants.
"b. Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted
in the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them
if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless
by consent of the proposed defendant."
Plaintiff brought his action in the state court, and its re-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

191 U. S.

moval on the ground of diverse citizenship placed it in the
Circuit Court as if it had been commenced there on that ground
of jurisdiction, and not as if it had been commenced there by
consent of defendant under section 23 of the bankruptcy act.
The right to removal is absolute and cannot be trammeled by
such a consequence.
Nor can this writ of error be sustained under section 25 of
the bankruptcy law, for the section has no application. The
reasons for that conclusion will be found in Holden v. Stratton,
ante, p. 115.
As to the suggestion that certiorari might now be issued, the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was rendered May 7,
1902, and there is nothing to take the case out of the general
rule. The Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 114; Ayres v. Poldorfer,
187 U. S. 585, 595.
Writ of error dismissed.

TOLTEC RANCH COMPANY v. COOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 48. Arguea November 3, 1903.-Decided December 21, 1903.
Adverse possession gives a title to land together with the remedies which
attach to the title as effectually as a conveyance from the owner.
Adverse possession under claim of right for the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations of the State of Utah after the act granting the land
and before a patent has been issued by the United States to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company for a part of its land grant within that State,
and not within its right of way, will prevail against the patent.

TEE Toltec Ranch Company, a California corporation,
brought this action in 1901 in the District Court of the First
Judicial District, Box Elder County, State of Utah, to quiet
title to the S.E. I of the S.E. 1 of section 27, township 8, north
of range 2 west, Salt Lake meridian, United States survey.
Title in fee was alleged. The defendants answered separately,

