THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
Syllabus.

191 U. S.

the statutory requirements of section two of the Harter Act
would be to allow the parties to enforce a contract in violation of the positive terms of the statute. As was said by
Vr. Justice White, of somewhat similar provisions in the contract before the court in The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263, 269:
"It is apparent that they are void, since they unequivocally
sought to relieve the carrier from the initial duty of furnishing
a seaworthy vessel for all neglect in loading or stowing, and
indeed for any and every fault of commission or omission on
the part of the carrier or his servants."
We think, for the reasons stated, there was error in rendering a decree dismissing the libel, and
The decree of the District Court, as well as the judgment of
affirmance of the Court of Appeals, will be reversed, and
the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions
to enter a decree in favor of the libellants.

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 16. A gued March 11, 12.-Decided October 26,1903.
1. Although the Erie Canal is wholly within the state of New York, it
connects navigable waters and is a great highway of commerce between
ports in different states and foreign countries, and is, therefore, a navigable water of the United States within the legitimate scope of the
admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
2. The enforcement of a lien in rem for repairs made in a port of the State
to which it belongs to a canal boat engaged in traffic on the Erie Canal
and the Hudson River is wholly within the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts and such lien cannot be enforced by any proceeding
in rem in the courts of the State of New York.
3. The contract for making such repairs is a maritime contract and its
nature as such is not affected by the fact that the repairs were made in
a dry dock or by the fact
4. That the canal boat was engaged in traffic wholly within the State of
New York. The Be~fast, 7 Wall 624.

voL. oXcI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

THis was a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York sustaining the jurisdiction of
that court to enforce a lien for repairs made by Haines to the
canal boat Robert W. Parsons, which was engaged at the time
in navigating the Erie Canal and Hudson River.
Defense, that the statute of the State of New York, giving
a lien for such repairs and providing a remedy for enforcing
the same in rem, is unconstitutional, so far as concerns the
remedy, and an infringement upon the exclusive jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States in admiralty and maritime
causes.
A motion to vacate the attachment, issued upon the petition of Haines, upon the ground that the court had no jurisdiction, was denied, an appeal taken to the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court, where the case was argued, and the
order of the court below affirmed by a majority of the justices.
Matter of Haines, 52 N. Y. App. Div. 550. From the final
order of the court, subsequently entered, the owner, Clara
Perry, again appealed to the Appellate Division, where the
order was affirmed. In re Haines, 57 N. Y. App. Div. 636,
and again by the Court of Appeals. In re Haines, 168 N. Y.
586. Whereupon a writ of error was sued out from this court.
-Mr. Martin Clark for plaintiff in error:
I. The original statute of New York for liens on vessels,
chap. 482, Laws of 1862, was, so far as it provided for enforcement of maritime claims in rem, held unconstitutional. In re
Josephine, 39 N. Y. 19; Br'ookman v. Hamill, 43 N. Y. 554;
The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555 ; Voes v. Cockeroft, 44 N. Y.
415 ; Poole v. Kermit, 37 N. Y. Super. Ct. 114; The Belfast, 7
Wall. 624.
Chap. 418, Laws of 1897, chap. XLIX of the General Laws,
Art. II, now provides for liens on vessels. The enforcement
depends upon whether the contract is maritime or not; if maritime the proceedings are in the United States courts, in other
cases in the state courts.
This was necessary, as the statute provides for a lien where

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

labor or materials are furnished under a contract for building
a boat, which the courts uniformly hold is not a maritime contract, and in such a case it must be enforced inthe courts of
the State, as a court of admiralty would not have jurisdiction
of it. Withor v. Lawrence, 82 N. Y. 409, p. 411 ; The T .E.
_Ramie/l, 148 U. S.1, and cases cited; The Iefferson, 20 How.
393; The Caspitol, 22 How. 129 ; Edwards v. .Eiott,21 Wall.
532.
So that in determining upon the remedy of the forum, it is
necessary to determine first whether or not the contract upon
which the lien is based is a maritime contract. If it is, then
under the statute, as well as under the authorities, "it can be
enforced only by proceedings in the courts of the United
States."
II. That a contract for making repairs upon a boat is a
maritime contract is settled beyond question. The General
Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; The t. Lcawrence, 1 Black, 522; Peyroux v. olward, 7 Peters, 324; The Lottowanna, 21 Wall.
558; Admiralty Rule 12 of this court; The Glide, 167 U. S.
606; Ex parte Boyer, 109 'U. S.629.
III. The Appellate Division laid undue stress upon the character of the vessel and did not give due weight to the navigability of the water upon which the boat was employed. Vessels
that are vehicles of commerce are within the jurisdiction of
admiralty regardless of methods of propulsion. The gontello,
20 Wall. 430 ; The .DanielBall, 10 Wall. 557; The General
Cuss,1 Brown's Adm. 334; The B. A. Shores,,J., '13 Fed. Rep.
342.
That a contract is to be performed wholly within a State
does not exclude it from the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States. The admiralty jurisdiction, conferred
by the Constitution upon these courts, extends to all contracts
of a maritime character to be performed upon navigable
waters. The Mary WMashingtn?, 1 Abb. U. S.1, Fed. Cases
No. 9229; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Leonard, 3 Ben.
263, Fed. Oases No. 8256; . S. v. Burlington & Hender8on
Go. Ferry Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 331, 336.
This rule is followed although the boat was built to navigate

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S.

the canal, and had no means of locomotion in herself. The -E.
X. McChesney, 8 Ben. 150, Fed. Cases No. 4463; iS. C., 15
Blatch. 183, Fed. Cases No. 4464; The THImington, 48 Fed.
Rep. 566.
IV. The Erie Canal and connecting waters are public navigable waters of the United States over which the Admiralty
Court has and exercises jurisdiction. The Thomas Carroll,23
Fed. Rep. 912; The Ella .B., 24 Fed. Rep. 508; Naloney v. City
of ifilwaukee, 1 Fed. Rep., 611; also the Albemarle and
Chesapeake Canal, The Olie, 2 Hughes, 12 Fed. Cases No.
10485; the Welland Canal in 1873, The Avon, Brown's Adm.
170, Fed. Cases No. 680; Scott v. The Young American, Newb.
101, Fed. Cases No. 12549.
Admiralty assumes jurisdiction not only over canal boats
but also over a dredge and scows. The Alabama, 22 Fed.
Rep. 449. A raft of timber, Muntz v. Raft of Timber, 15
Fed. Rep. 555. A steamer of less than five tons burden engaged in carrying freight and passengers upon navigable
water, The Pioneer, 21 Fed. Rep. 426. A ferry-boat plying
between two parts in the same State in a navigable river, U.
S. v. B. & H. Ferry Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 331. A dismantled
steamboat being fitted for use as a wharfboat, The 01 Natchez, 9 Fed. Rep. 476. A barge without sails or rudder, used
for lightering, Disbow v. The Walsh Bros., 36 Fed. Rep.
607. A bath-house built on boats and designed for transportation, The Public Baths No. 13, 61 Fed. Rep. 692. A contract for the repair of scows used in carrying ballast to or
from vessels, Endner v. Greco, 3 Fed. Rep. 411; Benedict's
Adm. ff 213, 221, 221a; U. S. Rev. Stat. § 3, 542.
The limitations in Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629, have no
bearing in this case.
V. Decisions of this court should be followed as to extent of
jurisdiction of Federal courts. Constitution, Art. III, § 2;
U. S. Rev. Stat. § 863, subd. 8; York v. Conde, 147 U. S. 491.
The establishment of admiralty jurisdiction of the United
States courts, as now recognized in its full breadth and meaning, was reached by slow degrees, after repeated argument at
the bar, and earnest discussion between the members of the

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

court in consultation. Ihe Thoma" Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428;
Waving v. Clarke, 5 How. 441 ; The Genesee Chief, 12 How.
443 ; Allen v. Newb&ry, 21 How. 214; lfe-Cuire v. Card, 21
How. 248; The -Yoses Taylo, 4 Wall. 441; The ifine v. Trevor,
4 Wall. 555; The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15; The Daniel Ball, 10
Wall. 557 ; Ins. Co. v. .Dunharm,, 11 Wall. 1 ; The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558 ; .Maloney v. City of .Milwaukee, 1 Fed. Rep. 611 ;
Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629 ; Rule 12, Admiralty, {U. S.
Sup. Ot. adopted 1844, changed December, 1858, May, 18'12;
Allen v. NYewbury, 21 How. 244, and IcGuire v. Card, 21
How. 248, overruled by The Befast, 7 Wall. 624; The Ann
A.rbor, Fed. Cas. 4017 and 408, distinguished. New York
cases in Appellate Division opinion and cited by defendant in
error are inapplicable. Local decisions cannot abrogate maritime law. Workman,v. The Mayor, 179 U. S. 552, 563 ; Benedict's Admiralty, §§ 313, 313a, 313b. And as to admiralty
jurisdiction over liens on canal boats, see Murphy v. Balme,
1 Hun, 140; Chisholm v. Nor. TranSp. Co., 61 Barb. 363, 388;
B1yan. v. Hfook, 34 Hun, 185; Wilson v. Lawrence, 82 N. Y.
499.
Ar. George F. Thompson for defendant in error:
I. Title 4 of chap. 23, New York Code of Civil Procedure, was
a reenactment of chap. 482, Laws of 1862, for the enforcement of liens against ships and vessels which had been construed by the courts of that State and held unconstitutional so
far as it provided a remedy for the enforcement of a maritime
contract, but to be constitutional and effective so far as it related to the enforcement of liens by virtue of ordinary domestic contracts for the furnishing of repairs and supplies to domestic craft, such as boats constructed and used on the inland
canals of the State, it being held that these are not maritime
contracts within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States. Shepard v. Steele, 43 N. Y. 52; M'ott v. Lansing, 53
N. Y. 554; Pooke v. JIemrdt, 59 N. Y. 555; Nelson v. Lawrence, 82 N. Y. 409; Brookrnan v. Hfamil, 43 N. Y. 112;
F'ali'h v. Betts, 13 Hun, 632; People's Ferry Co. v. Biers,20
How. 393 to 402; Allen v. N.ewbury, 21 How. 245; The Gen-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

191 U. S.

esee Ch
12 How. 443 ; .McGuire v. Card, 21 How. 248;
Happy v. Mosher, 48 N . Y. 78; iDelaney v. Britt, 51 N. Y.
78; In re Haines, 168 N. Y. 586.
The admiralty is a maritime court instituted for the purpose
of administrating the law of the sea, Te Lottawanna, 21
Wall. 567, and the question as to the true limits of maritime
law and admiralty jurisdiction is exclusively a judicial question and no state law or act of Congress can make it broader
or narrower than the judicial power may determine these limits to be, but what the law is within these limitations, assuming the maritime law to be the basis of the system, depends on
what has been received as law in the maritime usages of this
country, and on such legislation as may have been competent
to affect it.
It has never before in any case before this court been attempted to confine contracts relating to an absolutely impotent
vessel (i. e. one propelled by horse power by means of a rope
attached to a team of horses walking on the land) to the exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty courts. In all previous cases
before this court there were involved sea-going ships or vessels
plying between foreign countries or engaged in coasting trade
between different States and Territories, or steamboats enrolled and licensed and engaged in interstate commerce and
able of themselves to travel between ports and places of different States. The question has been discussed in its various
phases by this court on several occasions. The St. Lawrence,
1 Black, 522; The Commerce, 1 Black, 578; Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324; The Orleans, 11 Peters, 175; The General
Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; Waring v. Clark, 5 How. 452; The
Lexington, 6 How. 392; The Genesee CieYf, 12 How. 443,454;
The Xiagnolia,20 How. 298 ; Te J-ferson, 20 How. 393; AlZen v. Newbury, 21 How. 245; .McGuire v. Card, 21 How.
250; The Capitol, 22 How. 129 ; Rine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555;
The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Eagle, 8 Wall. 20 ; The Grape
Shot, 9 Wall. 129 ; The Lulu, 10 Wall. 197; The ifalorama,
10 Wall. 205; The Custer, 10 Wall. 215 ; Ins. Co. v. -Dunham,
11 Wall. 21; Ex parte ecNeal, 13 Wall. 243; Edwards v.
Elliott, 21 Wall. 532; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; Ex

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629; In re Garnett, 141 71. S. 1, 8; The
J. E. 1umbull, 148 U. S. 1; The Glide, 167 U. S. 606; Work-'
gnan v. Mayor, 179 U. S. 553; Miller v. Miayor, 109 U. S. 385;
The General Cas, 1 Brown's Adm. 334; The .DanielBall, 10
Wall. 557. The 3ontello, 20 Wall. 430, distinguished as arising under penal laws and the vessels being engaged in interstate commerce.
The New York statute simply extends the common law lien,
and the jurisdiction of the courts remains unaffected. The principal cases decided by the courts of the State of New York on
this subject are the following: Mott v. Laneing, 53 N. Y.
554; Poole v. Kermit, 59 N. Y. 555; Wilson v. Lawrenee, 82
N. Y. 409.
A review of these decisions will disclose the fact that none
of them are or have been in conflict with the decisions of this
court on this subject. Courts of admiralty cannot and do not
exercise jurisdiction in any form over what is termed as land
contracts and give as a reason for this that these contracts are
made on land and to be performed on land. Many of the
decisions above cited reiterate this principle and it seems to be
well settledand in this regard this court has been followed by
the courts of the State of New York. People8 Ferry Co. v.
Biers, 20 How. 393 and 402 ; Shepard v. Steeke, 43 N. Y. 52;
BSrookman v. Hammil, 43 N. Y. 558.
The facts show that a contract for repairs was made on land
and was performed wholly and entirely on land-in a dry
dock-in an inland town. There is no reason therefore for refusing admiralty jurisdiction in the above cited cases that does
not exist in this case.
BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Aitu. JUSTICE

This case raises the question of the construction and constitutionality of the statutes of the State of New York, giving
a lien for repairs upon vessels, and providing for the enforcement of such lien by proceedings in rem. The statute con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

ferring the lien, so far as it is material, is given in the margin.1
It will be noticed that it expressly excludes liens founded upon
maritime contracts.
That a State may provide for liens in favor of materialmen
for necessaries furnished to a vessel in her home port, or in a
port of the State to which she belongs, though the contract to
furnish the same is a maritime contract, and that such liens
can be enforced by proceedings in rem in the District Courts
of the United States, is so well settled by a series of cases in
this court as to be no longer open to question. The General
Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; The Planter (Peyroux v. Howard), 7
Pet. 324; The St. Lawrence, I Black, 522. The remedy thus
administered by the admiralty court is exclusive. The Moses
Taylor, 4 Wall. 411; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; Johnson v.
Chicago &c. Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 397; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1, 12; The Josephine, 39 N. Y. 19; Brookman v.
Hamill, 43 N. Y. 554; Poole v. Kermit, 59 N. Y. 554. If there
were any doubts regarding this question they were completely
put to rest by the case of The Glide, 167 U. S. 606, in which it
was distinctly held, in an exhaustive opinion by Mr. Justice
Gray, that the enforcement in rem of a lien upon a vessel for
1 Laws of New York (1897), chap. 418, Vol. 1, p. 514 ; May 13, 1897.

"S-c. 80. A debt which is not a lien by the maritime law, and which
amounts to fifty dollars or upwards, on a sea-going or ocean-bound vessel,
or fifteen dollars or upwards on any other vessel shall be a lien on such
vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and shall be preferred to all other
liens thereon, except mariner's wages, if such debt is contracted by the
master, owner, charterer, builder or consignee of such ship or vessel, or by
the agent of either of them, within this State, for either of the following
purposes :
"1. For work done or material or other articles furnished in this State
for or towards the building, repairing, fitting, furnishing or equipping of
such vessel."
(The other subdivisions are immaterial.)
" SEc.35. If a lien, created by virtue of this article, isfounded upon a
maritime contract, it can be enforced only by proceedings in the courts of
the United States, and in any other case, in the courts of this State, in the
manner provided by the code of civil procedure."

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

repairs and supplies furnished in her home port, was exclusively within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
It is equally well established that for causes of action not
cognizable in admiralty, either in rem or in personam, the
States may not only grant liens, but may provide remedies for
their enforcement. Contracts for the building of a ship are
the most prominent examples of such as are not maritime in
their character, and hence within this rule. The Jefferson,
20 How. 393; The Capitol, 22 How. 129; Edwards v. Elliott,
21 Wall. 532; Johnson v. Chicago &c. Elevator Co., 119 U. S.
388; Sheppardv. Steele, 43 N. Y. 52.
It remains to consider whether the contract in this case,
which was for repairs furnished to a canalboat in a port of the
State to which she belonged, was a maritime contract. If it
were, the position of the state courts was wrong. The denial
of exclusive jurisdiction on the part of the admiralty court
to enforce this lien must rest upon one of two propositions:
either because the cause of action arose upon an artificial
canal, or because a canalboat is not a ship or vessel contemplated by the maritime law, and within the jurisdiction of the
admiralty court.
1. At an early day, and following English precedents, it was
held by this court in The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428,
that the admiralty courts could not rightfully exercise jurisdiction "except in cases where the service was substantially
performed, or to be performed, upon the sea, or upon waters
within the ebb and flow of the tide." The opinion is a brief
one by Mr. Justice Story, and contains little more than the
announcement of the general principle, and with no attempt
to distinguish the English cases. It lacks wholly any display
of the abundant learning which ten -years before had characterized his celebrated opinion in De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gall. 398;
S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 3776. The case was a strong one for the
adoption of English precedents, as it concerned a voyage from
a port in Kentucky up the Mlissouri River and back again to

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

the same port. It was, however, flatly overruled in The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, and the modern doctrine established,
to which this court has consistently and invariably adhered,
that not the ebb and flow of the tide, but the actual navigability of the waters is the test .of jurisdiction. It is true that
case arose upon the Great Lakes, but the rule was subsequently
extended to cases arising upon the rivers above the tidal effect.
Fretz v. Bull, 12 How. 466; The Magnolia, 20 How. 296. In
The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, it was held that Grand River,
a navigable water wholly within the State of Michigan, being
a stream capable of bearing for a distance of forty miles a
steamer of 123 tons burthen, and forming by its junction with
Lake Michigan a continuous highway for commerce, both with
other States and with foreign countries, was a navigable water
of the United States, and the rule was broadly announced
that "those rivers must be regarded as public navigable rivers
in law, which are navigable in fact," and that "they constitute navigable waters of the United States within the meaning of the acts of Congress, in contradistinction from the navigable waters of the States, when they form in their ordinary
condition by themselves, or by uniting with other waters, a
continued highway over which commerce is or may be carried
on with other States or foreign countries, in the customary
modes in which such commerce is conducted by water." The
same principle was applied in The Montello, 20 Wall. 411, to
the Fox River in Wisconsin, although its navigability was interrupted by rapids and falls over which portages were required to be made, and to Chicago River in Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678. See also Miller v. The Mayor, 109
U. S. 385; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 8.
The only distinction between canals and other navigable
waters is that they are rendered navigable by artificial means,
and sometimes, though by no means always, are wholly within
the limits of a particular State. We fail to see, however, that
this creates any distinction in principle. They are usually
constructed to connect waters navigable by nature, and to

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

avoid the portage of property from one navigable lake or river
to another; or to improve or deepen a natural channel; and
they are usually navigated by the same vessels which ply between the naturally navigable waters at either end of the
canal. Examples of these are the St. Clair Ship Canal, connecting St. Clair River with the lake of the same name; the
St. Mary's Canal, connecting the waters of Lake Superior with
those of Lake Huron; the Illinois and Michigan Canal, connecting the waters of Lake Michigan with the Mississippi River;
the Welland Canal, between Lake Ontario and Lake Erie; the
Suez Canal, between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea; the
Great North Holland Canal, connecting Amsterdam directly
with the German Ocean; and the Erie Canal, connecting Lake
Erie with the Hudson River. Indeed, most of the harbors
upon the lakes and Atlantic coast are made accessible by
canals wholly artificial, or by an artificial channel broadening
and deepening their natural approaches. Can it be possible
that a cause of action which would be maritime, if occurring
upon those connected waters, would cease to be maritime if
arising upon the connecting waters? Must a collision which
would give rise to a suit in admiralty, if occurring upon Lake
Ontario, or Lake Erie, be prosecuted at common law, if happening upon the Welland Canal? This question arose in this
country in the case of The Avon, 1 Brown's Ad. 170; S. C.,
Fed. Cas. 680, in which Judge Emmons, in a carefully considered opinion, took jurisdiction of a collision upon that canal,
although it was wholly within British territory. While this
was with one exception, Scott v. Young American, Newberry's
Ad. 101, the earliest case in this country, it was no novelty in
England, since in The Diana, Lush. 539, Dr. Lushington assumed jurisdiction of a collision between two British vessels
in the Great North Holland Canal, rejecting altogether the
contention that the legislature did not intend to give the court
jurisdiction over matters occurring in foreign territorial waters.
This jurisdiction has since been declared in England to extend
to collisions between foreign vessels in the Bosphorus, The Mali

OCTOBER TEIM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Ivo, L. R. 2 Ad. & Eec. 356; and in the Scheldt, The Halley,
L. R. 2 Priv. Coun. 193. See also The Thomas Carroll, 23
Fed. Rep. 912; The Oler, 2 Hughes, 12; S. C., Fed. Cas. 10, 485;
The E. M. McChesney, 8 Ben. 150; S. C., 15 Blatch. 183;
Malony v. The City of Milwaukee, 1 Fed. Rep. 611; The General Cass, 1 Brown's Ad. 334; S. C., Fed. Cas. 5307. The tidal
test was long since abolished by statute in England. 24 Vict.
c. 10, May 17, 1861; Marsden on Collisions, 3d ed. 210.
Finally, in Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629, such jurisdiction
was held by this court to extend to collisions between two
canalboats occurring in the Illinois and Lake Michigan Canal,
Mr. Justice Blatchford observing that "navigable water situated as this canal is, used for the purposes for which it is used,
a highway for commerce between ports and places in different
States, carried on by vessels such as those in question here,
is public water of the United States, and within the legitimate
scope of the admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, even though the canal
is wholly within the body of a State and subject to its ownership and control." The case is the more noteworthy from the
fact that the canal was but sixty feet wide and six feet deep.
It has never been overruled or questioned, and must be treated
as settling the jurisdiction of the admiralty court over the
waters of any artificial canal which is the means of communication between ports and places in different States and Territories. It is not intended here to intimate that if the waters,
though navigable, are wholly territorial and used only for
local traffic, such, for instance, as the interior lakes of the State
of New York, they are to be considered as navigable waters of
the United States. The Montel1o, 20 Wall. 411. In the case
under consideration, however, the Erie Canal, though wholly
within the State of New York, is a great highway of commerce
between ports in different States and foreign countries, and is
navigated by vessels which also traverse the waters of Hudson
River from the head of navigation to its mouth.
2. But the crucial question involved in this case is whether

THE ROBEWR W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the exclusive admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the Federal courts attaches to canalboats-in other words, whether
they are ships or vessels within the meaning of the admiralty
law. If it be once conceded, as for the reasons above given
we think it must be, that navigable canals used as highways
for interstate or foreign commerce are navigable waters of the
United States, it would be an anomaly to hold that such jurisdiction did not attach to the only craft used in navigating such
canals. It is true that, in the more modern constructions,
these canals are made wide and deep enough for the largest
vessels; but it so happens that the Erie Canal was built at an
early day, and was adapted only for vessels of light draught
and peculiar construction. The possibilities of the future were
then scarcely foreseen, and even if they had been, the State
was too poor to provide for anything beyond the immediate
present. For those purposes the canal was amply sufficient,
and for twenty years was the principal means of communication with the Northwest, and was not only the highway over
which all the merchandise was carried between the Hudson
River and the Great Lakes, but was largely used for the transportation of passengers in the great Western immigration which
immediately followed its construction. As late as 1850 large
and handsomely equipped passenger vessels were run every
day at stated hours, and the canal continued to be, even after
the building of the railways, a favorite method of communication with the Great Lakes. While these boats were vessels of
light draught, and were drawn by animal power, they were
from 150 to 300 tons capacity-larger than those out of which
arose the maritime law of modern Europe, and much larger
than those employed by Columbus and the earlier navigators
in their discovery of the new world. It is said by a writer in
the Quarterly Review and quoted in Ben. Ad. Practice, sec. 220,
that "the first discoverers of America committed themselves
to the unknown ocean in barks, one not above fifteen tons;
Forbisher, in two vessels of twenty or twenty-five tons; Sir
Humphrey Gilbert, in one of ten tons only." The ships in

OCTOBER TERUt, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

which the Vikings of Scandinavia invaded England, and ravaged the coasts of western Europe, (specimens of which are
still preserved at Christiania,) were open boats, not exceeding
100 feet in length and 16 in breadth, and propelled partly by
oars and partly by a single sail. In fact, neither size, form,
equipment nor means of propulsion are determinative factors
upon the question of jurisdiction, which regards only the purpose for which the craft was constructed, and the business in
which it is engaged.
The application of this criterion has ruled out the floating
dry dock, the floating wharf, the ferry bridge hinged or chained
to a wharf, the sailors' Bethel moored to a wharf, Cope v. Talette
Dry Dock Co., 119 U. S. 625; and a gas float moored as a beacon,
The Whitton, L. R. 1895, P. 301; S. C., L. R. 1896, P. 42; S. C.,
L. R. 1897, A. C. 337.
But it has been held in England to include a fishing coble,
a boat of ten tons burthen, twenty-four feet in length, decked
forward only, though accustomed to go only twenty miles to
sea, and to remain out twelve hours at a time, Ex parte Ferguson, L. R. 6 Q. B. 280; a barge, The Malvina, Lush. 493, affirmed
on appeal, Brown & Lush. 57; though not a dumb barge, propelled by oars only, Everard v. Kendall, L. R. 5 C. P. 428; and
in America to steamers of five tons burthen, engaged in carrying freight and passengers upon navigable waters, The Pioneer,
21 Fed. Rep. 426; The Ella B., 24 Fed. Rep. 508; The Volunteer,
1 Brown's Ad. 159, affirmed 15 Int. Rev. Rec. 59; a barge,
without sails or rudder, used for transporting grain, The Wilmington, 48 Fed. Rep. 566; a floating elevator, The Hezekiah
Baldwin, 8 Ben. 556. See also The Northern Belle, 9 Wall. 526;
The Alabama, 22 Fed. Rep. 449; Endner v. Greco, 3 Fed. Rep.
411.
Again, in Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629, this court held the
jurisdiction of the admiralty court to extend to a collision between two canalboats of more than twenty tons burthen, one
of which was in tow and the other propelled by steam. If the
jurisdiction of the admiralty court in the caae under consid-

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eration depends, as it must, upon the facts that the cause of
action arose upon the canal, and upon canalboats navigating
such canal, the case of Boyer would seem to be decisive of this.
So far as the Congress of the United States and the Parliament of England have incidentally spoken upon the subject,
they have fixed a criterion of size as to what shall be considered
a vessel within the admiralty jurisdiction far below the tonnage
of an ordinary canalboat. By the original Judiciary Act of
1789, section nine, 1 Stat. 73, c. 20, jurisdiction was givento the
District Courts of all seizures made "on waters which are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten tons or more burthen;"
and by the act of February 26, 1845, 5 Stat. c. 20, 726 (now
obsolete), The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15, admiralty jurisdiction was
given to vessels navigating the Great Lakes and their connecting waters of twenty tons burthen and upwards. By section 4311, Rev. Stat., vessels of twenty tons and upwards,
enrolled and licensed, and vessels of less than twenty tons, not
enrolled but licensed, shall be deemed vessels of the United
States; and by section 4520 all vessels of fifty tons or upwards
are required to ship their seamen under written articles. By
the English Merchants' Shipping Act of 1854, the word "ship
shall include every description of vessel used in navigation,
not propelled by oars;" and a similar description is given of
vessels within the admiralty jurisdiction, in the Admiralty
Court Act of 1861.
It seems, however, to be supposed that the fact that boats
engaged in traffic upon the Erie Canal are drawn by horses is
sufficient of itself to exclude them from the jurisdiction of the
admiralty courts. This, however, is an argument which appeals less to the reason than to the imagination. So long as
the vessel is engaged in commerce and navigation it is difficult to see how the jurisdiction of admiralty is affected by its
means of propulsion, which may vary in the course of the
same voyage, or with new discoveries made in the art of navigation. Thus, canalboats, upon their arrival at Albany, are
at once relieved of their horses, and taken by a steamer in tow

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

to New York or Jersey City. To hold that such boats are not
within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts, while on a trip
down the Hudson River, would require us to overrule a large
number of cases in this court, in which it was assumed by both
parties and the court that for damages sustained by collision
with other vessels they were entitled to pursue the wrongdoer
in courts of admiralty. The Quickstep, 9 Wall. 665; The Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167; The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302; The L. P. Dayton,
120 U. S. 337; The E. A. Packer, 140 U. S. 360. But it would
seem like sticking in the bark to hold that a canalboat might
recover for a collision while in tow of a tug, but might not recover while in tow of a horse. The case does not raise the
question whether hay and oats furnished the horses are necessaries within the meaning of the admiralty law, though a
casuist might have difficulty in drawing a distinction between
coal and oil furnished to one engine of propulsion and hay and
oats to another, or between food furnished to a crew and food
furnished to the horses.
Replying to the suggestion that, if jurisdiction were sustained of repairs upon a canalboat drawn by horses, it would
apply with equal propriety to a blacksmith's bill for shoeing
the horses, it is only necessary to say that, for incidental repairs made on land to articles of a ship's furniture or machinery, it has never been supposed that a court of admiralty
had jurisdiction. Indeed, it would seem extremely doubtful
if liens for these trivial bills were intended to be created by
the state law. Articles removed from a vessel and repaired
or renovated upon land at the shop of the artisan, stand upon
quite a different footing from repairs made upon the vessel
herself, and are the subject of a possessory lien at common
law.
The truth is, the present employment of horses is a mere
accident, and likely to be changed at any time by an enlargement of the canal, now in contemplation, when steam or electricity will probably supplant the present methods of locomotion. The modern law of England and America rules out

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

of the admiralty jurisdiction all vessels propelled by oars,
simply because they are the smallest class and beneath the
dignity of a court of admiralty; but long within the historic
period, and for at least seven hundred years, the triremes and
quadriremes of the Greek and Roman navies were the largest
and most powerful vessels afloat.
It is true the amount involved in this case is a small one, but
the jurisdiction of the admiralty court has never been determined by the amount, though appeals from the District Court
to the Supreme Court were first limited to cases involving $300,
subsequently reduced to $50, and finally, by the Court of Appeals act, allowed apparently in all cases regardless of amount.
So, also, cases may be brought under the patent and copyright laws, quite irrespective of the amounts involved.
3. As heretofore observed, the exclusive jurisdiction of the
admiralty court in this case was attacked upon the grounds,
already discussed, that artificial canals and the vessels plying
thereon are not within its jurisdiction. A further suggestion,
however, is made that the contract in this case was not only
made on land but was to be performed on land, and was in
fact performed on land. This argument must necessarily rest
upon the assumption that repairs put upon a vessel while in dry
dock are made upon land. We are unwilling to admit this
proposition. A dock is an artificial basin in connection with
a harbor, used for the reception of vessels in the taking on or
discharging of their cargoes, and provided with gates for preventing the rise and fall of the waters occasioned by the tides,
and keeping a uniform level within the docks. A dry dock
differs from an ordinary dock only in the fact that it is smaller,
and provided with machinery for pumping out the water in
order that the vessel may be repaired. All injuries suffered
by the hulls of vessels below the water line, by collision or
stranding, must necessarily be repaired in a dry dock, to prevent the inflow of water, but it has never been supposed, and
it is believed the proposition is now for the first time made,
that such repairs were made on land. Had the vessel been
VOL. oXoI-3

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

hauled up by ways upon the land and there repaired a different question might have been presented, as to which we express no opinion; but as all serious repairs upon the hulls of

vessels are made in dry dock, the proposition that such repairs
are made on land would practically deprive the admiralty
courts of their largest and most important jurisdiction in connection with repairs. No authorities are cited to this proposition and it is believed none such exist.
Suppose, for instance, it were believed that the repairs could
be made upon this vessel without going into dry dock, but it
was afterward discovered that the injuries were more extensive and that a dry dock were necessary; would a court of
admiralty thereby be deprived of jurisdiction? Or, suppose
such repairs were made in a floating dry dock, as sometimes
happens, would they be considered as made upon land or
water? Or, suppose they were made in dry dock upon a seagoing vessel?
There is no doubt of the proposition that a dry dock itself
is not a subject of salvage service or of admiralty jurisdiction,
because it is not used for the purpose of navigation. That
was settled in Cope v. Vallette Dry Dock Co., 119 U. S. 625.
But the case was put upon the express ground that a dry dock
was like a ferry bridge or sailors' floating meeting house, and
was no more used for the purposes of navigation than a wharf
or a warehouse projecting into or upon the water.
4. Suggestion is also made that the admiralty jurisdiction
of the Federal courts does not extend to contracts for the
repair of vessels engaged wholly in commerce within a State.
It is true that as late as 1858, in The Fashion (Allen v. Newberry), 21 How. 244, it was held that, under the act of Congress of 1845, extending jurisdiction of the Federal courts to
vessels employed in navigation upon the Great Lakes, between ports and places in different States, it did not extend
to the case of a shipment of goods from a port in one State
to another port in the same State; and that in the case of The
Goliah (McGuire v, Card), 21 How. 248, the same doctrine

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was extended to a contract for supplies furnished to a vessel
engaged in trade between different ports in the State of California. These cases, however, were practically overruled by
that of The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, in which a state statute,
similar to the statute of New York involved in this case, for
a breach of contract of affreightment between ports in the
same State, (Alabama,) was held to be unconstitutional and
void, although the shipment was between ports of the same
State. The contention was distinctly made (p. 635) that the
state court had jurisdiction because the contract of affreightment was between ports and places in the same State, but it
was as distinctly disclaimed by the court, and the prior cases
practically overruled. So also in Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S.
629, the doctrine of The Belfast was reiterated and applied to
a collision between canalboats, Mr. Justice Blatchford saying:
"That it makes no difference as to the jurisdiction of the District Court, that one or the other of the vessels was at the time
of the collision on a voyage from one place in the State of
Illinois to another place in the same State." To the same
effect are The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; The Montello, 20 Wall.
411; The Commerce, 1 Black, 574, and Lord v. Steamship Co.,
102 U. S. 541.
So, too, in In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, the limited liability act
was held to be a part of the law of the United States, enforceable upon navigable rivers above tide waters, and applicable
to vessels engaged in commerce between ports in the same
States. In delivering the opinion Mr. Justice Bradley said
(p. 15): "In some of the cases it was held distinctly that this
jurisdiction does not depend upon the question of foreign or
interstate commerce, but also exists where the voyage or contract, if maritime in character, is made and is to be performed
wholly within a single State"-citing all the cases noticed in
this opinion.
In The E. M. McChesney, 8 Ben. 150, Judge Blatchford,
more recently of this court, sustained a libel against a canalboat for non-delivery of a cargo shipped on a canalboat in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

Buffalo to be carried to New York. In that case, as in this,
it was contended that neither the canal nor the canalboat
were subjects of the admiralty jurisdiction. The case is directly in point.
It is believed that since the case of The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624,
the distinction has never been admitted between contracts
concerning vessels engaged in trade between ports of the
same and between ports of different States. Of course, nothing herein said is intended to trench upon the common law
jurisdiction of the state courts, which is, and always has been,
expressly saved to suitors "where the common law is competent to give it." Rev. Stat. sec. 563, sub. 8. By that law an
action will always lie against the master or owner of the vessel, and, if the laws of the State permit it, the vessel may be
attached as the property of the defendant in the case. But,
as remarked by Mr. Justice Miller in The Hine v. Trevor, 4
Wall. 555, 571: A statute providing that a vessel may be
sued and made defendant without any proceeding against the
owners, or even mentioning their names, partakes of all the
essential features of an admiralty proceeding in rem, of which
exclusive jurisdiction is given to the District Courts of the
United States. See also The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 427,
wherein it is said: "The action against the boat by name,
authorized by the statute of California, is a proceeding in the
nature and with the incidents of a suit in admiralty. The
distinguishing and characteristic feature of such suit is that
the vessel or thing proceeded against is itself seized and impleaded as the defendant, and is judged and sentenced accordingly."
In The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, a proceeding was taken in a
state court in Alabama for the enforcement of a lien for the
loss of certain cotton. The statute was, in its essentials, a
reproduction of the New York statute under consideration.
Plaintiffs contended that, admitting the admiralty courts had
jurisdiction, the state courts had concurrent jurisdiction to
afford the parties the same remedies. It was held that state

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legislatures had no authority to create a maritime lien, or to
enforce such a lien by a suit or proceeding in rem, as practiced
in the admiralty courts.
In all these cases the distinction is sharply drawn between
a common law action in personam with a concurrent attachment against the goods and chattels of the defendant, subject, of course, to any existing liens, and a proceeding in rem
against the vessel as the debtor or "offending thing," which
is the characteristic of a suit in admiralty. The same distinction is carefully preserved in the general admiralty rules
prescribed by this court; rule second declaring that in suits
in personam the mesne process may be "by a warrant of arrest
of the person of the defendant, with a clause therein that if
he cannot be found, to attach his goods and chattels to the
amount sued for;" and rule nine, that in suits and proceedings in rem the process shall be by warrant of arrest of the
ship, goods or other things to be arrested, with public notice
to be given in the newspapers. The former is in strict analogy
to a common law proceeding and is a concurrent remedy.
The latter is a proceeding distinctively maritime, of which
exclusive jurisdiction is given to the admiralty courts. That
the New York statute belongs to the latter class is evident
from the code, by which, upon written application to a justice of the Supreme Court, a warrant is issued for the seizure of the vessel, and for an order to show cause why it
should not be sold to satisfy the lien. The warrant in this
case recites "that an application had been made to me
for a warrant to enforce a lien against the canalboat or vessel
called Rob't W. Parsons," and commands the sheriff "to seize
and safely keep said canalboat to satisfy said claim . . . as
above set forth, to be a lien upon said vessel according to law."
The proceeding authorized by the New York statute in question was held to be in the nature of a suit in admiralty in The
Josephine, 39 N. Y. 19, and Brookman v. Hamil, 43 N. Y. 554.
The proceeding is also similar to that provided by the laws of
Massachusetts, which, in the case of The Glide, 167 U. S. 606,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREwERm J., FuraixR, 0. J., and PEckHAM, J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

was held to be, as to repairs and supplies in the home port,
exclusively within the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal
courts.
As section 30 of the New York statute excludes a debt which
is not a lien by the maritime law, and Code § 3419, providing
for their enforcement, also excludes liens founded upon a
maritime contract, we think the state courts were in error
in enforcing this lien, thereby holding that a contract for the
repair of a canalboat while lying in the Erie Canal was not a
maritime contract, and that the statute so construed is pro
tanto unconstitutional.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed,
and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of the State
of New York for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Mn. JusTICE, BREWER, with whom the CHIEF JUsTIcE and
MR. JusTicE PECKHAMi concurred, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment in this
case, and deem the matter of sufficient importance to justify
an expression of my reasons therefor.
It is well to understand exactly the facts of the case. Sections 30 and 35 of the Laws of New York, 1897, chap. 418, are
quoted in the opinion of the court. By the first a lien is given
on a seagoing or oceanbound vessel, if the amount of the debt
is $50 or upwards, and on any other vessel if $15 or upwards.
And among other things the lien is for work done or material
or other articles furnished for the building or repairing of such
vessel. By the second the lien, if founded upon a maritime
contract, can be enforced only in the United States courts; if
not founded upon such a contract, by proceedings in the state
courts, in the manner provided by the Code of Civil Procedure.
The canalboat, upon which the lien was claimed, was not a
seagoing or oceanbound vessel, but engaged in carrying merchandise between Buffalo and other ports within the limits
of the State of New York. The statements in two affidavits,

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S. BREwER, J., FULLER, 0.J., and PEcMR.AW, J., dissenting.

one of the plaintiff and the other the defendant, (the plaintiff
being the owner of the claim and the defendant the owner of
the boat,) were, by stipulation between the parties, agreed
upon as the facts in the case. No question was made of the
justice of the claim or the liability of the owner of the boat
therefor. The work consisted in "permanent repairs upon the
boat," in this that "a part of one side of said boat was taken
out and her cheek plank, removed and the side of the boat and
the cheek plank were rebuilt into said boat." The work was
done upon dry docks belonging to the plaintiff in the village
of Middleport, a village located on the Erie Canal. The boat
at the time was on a trip from New York to Buffalo. The
value of these permanent repairs was $154.40, and the boat
when thus repaired sold for only $155. Further, according
to the bill of particulars, 727 feet of lumber, 47 bolts, 165 pounds
of spikes and 265 pounds of iron, as well as 334 hours of labor,
which, at 10 hours a day, amounted to over 33 days, were used
in the work. The size of the canalboat is not given, but from
this statement as to the amount and value of the work it is
evident that the repairs might well be considered a rebuilding
of the boat. Be that as it may, the contract was made on
land, to be performed on land, and was in fact performed on
land. The plaintiff was a canalboat builder, having dry docks
and yards at the village of Middleport, and on these dry docks
the work was done.
Was this a maritime contract? A contract for building a
ship or supplying materials for her construction is not a maritime contract. People's Ferry Co. of Boston v. Beers, 20 How.
393; Roach v. Chapman, 22 How. 129. In the former of these
cases the court said (p. 402): "So far from the contract being
purely maritime, and touching rights and duties appertaining
to navigation (on the ocean or elsewhere), it was a contract
made on land, to be performed on land."
So in Sheppard v. Steele, 43 N. Y. 52, 56:
"The claim here, is for labor upon the hull of a vessel, while
in the process of construction, before launching, while yet on

OCTOBER TERAW, 1903.
BREwER, J., FUILFRn,

C. J., and PEwKEAm, J., dissenting. 191 U.S.

the land. This is not a maritime contract. It is one relating
to a subject on the land, and it is to be performed on the land.
The admiralty courts have no jurisdiction for its enforcement.
Foster v. The Richard Busteed, 100 Mass. 409."
That a dry dock is to be considered as land in the maritime
law seems to be clear from the decision of this court in Cope
v. Vallette Dry Dock Company, 119 U. S. 625, in which it was
held that a dry dock was not a subject of salvage service,
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, saying (p. 627):
"A fixed structure, such as this dry dock is, not used for the
purpose of navigation, is not a subject of salvage service, any
more than is a wharf or a warehouse when projecting into or
upon the water." The dry dock referred to in this case was
a floating dock fastened by chains to the bank of the -Mississippi
River. Whether the- dock in this case was likewise fastened
by chains or a structure permanently attached to the land
does not appear. Certainly it cannot be presumed, for the
purpose of reversing the judgments of the state courts, that
it was not permanently attached to and as much a part of
the land as a bridge or a wharf.
In this connection reference may be had to Bradley v. Bolles,
Abbott's Admiralty Reports, 569, in which it was held by
Judge Betts that work done upon a vessel in a dry dock in
scraping her bottom preparatory to coppering her is not of a
maritime character, and that compensation for such labor
cannot be recovered in a court of admiralty. Judge Betts
says in his opinion that the court had repeatedly held that
contracts of that description do not constitute a lien upon
vessels which can be enforced in admiralty. In Boon v. The
Hornet, Crabbe, 426, a canalboat was hauled on shore on the
bank of a river where the tide ebbed and flowed, and there
repaired. It was held that, although the law of the State
gave a lien, the admiralty court would not take cognizance
of such a claim.
So also where damage is done wholly upon the land admiralty will not take jurisdiction, although the. cause of the

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 IT. 3. BREwER, J., FULLER, 0. J., and pECRA,

J., dissenting.

damage originated on waters subject to its jurisdiction. The
Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20; Ex parte Phenix Insurance Company,
118 U. S. 610; Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevator Company,
119 U. S. 388. Two of these were cases in which fire originating on a vessel communicated to property on land, and the
owner of the property attempted to recover in the admiralty
courts, but their jurisdiction was denied. The other was
where a vessel, while being towed in the Chicago River, struck
and damaged a building on the land. For this damage an
action was maintained in the state court and the jurisdiction
of that court upheld. It would seem to follow from these
cases that a contract made on land, to be performed on land,
and in fact performed on land, is not subject to admiralty
jurisdiction. And, likewise, that a tort resulting in injury to
something on the land is also not subject to admiralty jurisdiction, although the tort was on waters subject to such jurisdiction. It is true many cases may be found in which it is
stated generally that admiralty has jurisdiction of claims for
repairs upon vessels, but evidently that contemplates repairs
made while the vessel is in the water.
In this connection I notice a statement in the opinion of
the court, that "for incidental repairs made on land to articles
of a ship's furniture or machinery it has never been supposed
that a court of admiralty had jurisdiction." But if an engine
be taken out of a steam tug and repaired on land, and a court
of admiralty has no jurisdiction of the claim for such repairs,
has it any more claim when the hull of a canalboat is brought
on to the land and the side of it replaced? In each case the
contract is one performed on the land, and although having
ultimate relation to navigation on the water it is not of itself
directly connected with navigation.
Further, no objection can of course be made to the New
York statutes. Section 30 gives a lien, and no one questions
the power of a State to provide for such a lien to be enforced
in some court. Section 35 provides that if the lien is founded
on a maritime contract it id enforcible only in the courts of the

OCTOBER TERAT, 1903.
BRnwER. J., FULLER,

0. J., and PECxHAu, J., dissenting. 191 TT. S.

United States. Surely that is as far as the most strenuous
advocates of an extended admiralty jurisdiction can claim,
and it is only in those cases, as the section provides, where
the lien is not founded upon a maritime contract, that the
state courts may exercise jurisdiction. The state courts of
New York, from the trial through the Supreme to the Court
of Appeals, have all held that this lien was not founded upon
maritime contract. Upon what just ground can this court
disturb this finding? If it be a pure question of fact, we have
often held that we are bound by the action of the state courts.
If it is one partly of fact and partly of law, then surely we
ought not, except in the clearest case, to reverse those courts.
Still again, it has been repeatedly declared by this court, following the statute, that a claim cognizable in admiralty can
be enforced in the state courts by common law remedies.
Now, whatever may be the nature of the contract, (the foundation of the lien in this instance,) the only provision in section 35 is that it can be enforced in the manner provided by
the Code of Civil Procedure.
Turning to the Code of Civil Procedure, we find in Title IV
of chapter 23 the provisions for the enforcement of liens on
vessels. These provisions are, first, the lienor is to make a
written application to a justice of the Supreme Court for a
warrant to enforce the lien and to collect the amount thereof,
which application must state substantially the same facts as
in an ordinary pleading to enforce a mechanic's lien on buildings. Section 3420. Upon the filing of such application
the justice is directed to issue a warrant for the seizure of
the vessel, and at the same time to grant an order to show
cause why the vessel should not be sold to satisfy the lien.
A copy of the order and the application for the warrant must
be served personally upon the master or other person in charge
of the vessel, "and personally upon the owner and consignee
of such vessel if a resident of the State, or if not a resident of
the State, by mail addressed to such owner or consignee at
his last known place of residence, within ten days after the

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

BREWER, J., FULLER, C. J.,

and PECEAli, J., dissenting.

execution of such warrant." Sections 3422 and 3423. By
section 3424, the applicant is also required to give notice in
some paper published in the county where the vessel was seized,
"stating the issuance of the warrant, the date thereof, the
amount of the claim specified therein, the name of the applicant, and the time and plac6 of the return of the order to
show cause." By section 3425, the owner or consignee, or
any other person interested, may appear and contest the claim
of the lienor. Subsequent provisions authorize an appeal, as
in other civil cases. The record shows that*the proceedings
had were substantially in accordance with these provisions.
The application, called a petition, was filed, setting forth all
the facts required, including the name of the owner. An
order of sale and an order to show cause were both issued, and
the owner appeared in response to such notice. It is true
there is in the record no proof of service upon the owner, but
the fact of her appearance to contest the application is shown.
It is also true that she did not after her appearance contest
the amount of the claim, but contented herself with challenging the jurisdiction of the court. But such action on her part
does not obviate the fact that the proceedings on behalf of
the petitioner were substantially those to collect a civil debt
by attachment against the property of the defendant. In
this connection reference may be had to The Hine v. Trezor,
4 Wall. 555, in which an Iowa statute was held unconstitutional, but, as said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the
court, on page 571, describing the remedy provided for by
that statute:
"The remedy pursued in the Iowa courts, in the case before
us, is in no sense a common law remedy. It is a remedy partaking of all the essential features of an admiralty proceeding
in rem. The statute provides that the vessel may be sued and
made defendant without any proceeding against the owners,
or even mentioning their names. That a writ may be issued
and the vessel seized, on filing a petition similar in substance
to a libel. That after a notice in the nature of a monition,

OCT6BER TERM, 1903.
BRvE R. J., FuLLnER.C. J., and PEemHAMt, J., dissenting. 191 U.S.

the vessel may be condemned and an order made for her sale,
if the liability is established for which she was sued. Such
is the general character of the steamboat laws of the Western
States."
But in the very same case it was also said by the learned
justice:
"While the proceeding differs thus from a common law
remedy, it is also essentially different from what are in the
West called suits by attachment, and in some of the older
States foreign attachments. In these cases there is a suit
against a personal defendant by name, and because of inability to serve process on him on account of non-residence, or
for some other reason mentioned in the various statutes allowing attachments to issue, the suit is commenced by a writ
directing the proper officer to attach sufficient property of
the defendant to answer any judgment which may be rendered
against him. This proceeding may be had against an owner
or part owner of a vessel, and his interest thus subjected to
sale in a common law court of the State.
"Such actions may, also, be maintained in personam against
a defendant in the common law courts, as the common law
gives; all in consistence with the grant of admiralty powers in
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act."
So in the case at bar, we have a proceeding authorized by
the statute in which the owner is named, and notice required
to be served on him, and notice in fact served, an appearance
of the defendant and an opportunity to try the merits of the
claim, as in any other civil action.
That a State has full control over the practice and procedure to be pursued in its courts has been often adjudged. Thus
in Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31, it was said by Mr.
Justice Bradley, speaking for the court:
"We might go still further, and say, with undoubted truth,
that there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent any State
from adopting any system of laws or judicature it sees fit for
all or any part of its territory."

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S. BRwzR, J., FLuuR, C. J., and PECKHAM, J., dissenting.

Again, in Ex pare Reggel, 114 U. S. 642, 651, Mr. Justice
Harlan used these words:
"That Commonwealth [Pennsylvania] has the right to establish the forms of pleadings and process to be observed in
her own courts, in both civil and criminal cases, subject only
to those provisions of the Constitution of the United States
involving the protection of life, liberty and property in all the
States of the Union."
So Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court, in Iowa Central Railway Company v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393, declared:
"But it is clear that the Fourteenth Amendment in no way
undertakes to control the power of a State to determine by
what process legal rights may be asserted or legal obligations
be enforced, provided the method of procedure adopted for
these purposes gives reasonable notice and affords fair opportunity to be heard belore the issues are decided."
See, also, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Company,
169 U. S. 557, 570; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. 5. 172; League
v. Texas, 184 U. S. 156, 158.
But it is said that while this is generally true there is this
limitation, that the State cannot, as to claims against vessels,
adopt the procedure now obtaining in admiralty cases, or,
without actual notice to the owner, seize and sell a vessel in
satisfaction of a lien. Of course, it is not necessary to determine that question, because, as I have stated, there was notice
to the owner and an appearance by her, and such proceeding
was authorized by the statute. But even if it was not so authorized, and was simply a direct proceeding to enforce a lien
upon the vessel and sell it in satisfaction thereof, I insist that
the state courts may entertain jurisdiction. It was held in
Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, that a State may provide by
statute that the title to real estate within its limits shall be
settled and determined by a suit in which the defendant,
being a non-resident, is only brought into court by publication. The question was discussed at length, the authorities

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
BREwER, J., FULLER, C. J., and PEcIu ui, J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

reviewed, and the conclusion reached that the State had such
jurisdiction over real estate within its limits that it could determine the title without the personal presence of the owner.
But has the State any less jurisdiction over personalty situated within its borders than it has over real estate? Upon
what theory of state power can it be held that a State may
divest a non-resident of his title to real estate and not a nonresident of his title to personal property? There seems to
be a contention that there is a peculiar sanctity in the form
of admiralty proceedings which excludes the States from resort
to them, but the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts does
not depend on the form of the procedure. Congress may if
it see fit change entirely that procedure. As said by Chief
Justice Taney in The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 460:
"The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to 'all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction.' But it does not direct that the court
shall proceed according to ancient and established forms, or
shall adopt any other form or mode of practice. The grant
defines the subjects to which the jurisdiction may be extended by Congress. But the extent of the power as well
as the mode of proceeding in which that jurisdiction is to be
exercised, like the power and practice in all the other courts
of the United States, are subject to the regulation of Congress, except where that power is limited by the terms of the
Constitution or by necessary implication from its language.
In admiralty and maritime cases there is no such limitation
as to the mode of proceeding, and Congress may therefore in
cases of that description give either party right of trial by
jury, or modify the practice of the court in any other respect
that it deems more conducive to the administration of justice."
Suppose Congress should exercise this power and substitute
for the procedure in admiralty courts the common law practice, and make it the only method of procedure therein. What
would become of the argument that the State cannot resort
to the procedure obtaining in admiralty courts for enforcing

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S.

BREWEi,

J., FULLER, C. J., and PECKHAM, J., dssenting.

the rights of claimants? Must it then desist from common law
remedies because they have been adopted in admiralty and
go back to that form of procedure now obtaining in the admiralty courts? Can it be that the power of a State to vest
jurisdiction in one of its courts depends upon the form of
procedure which it adopts?
Why should we be so anxious to drive parties having small
claims away from their local courts to courts not infrequently
held at a great distance? Why should we be so anxious to
force litigants into a court where there is no constitutional
right to a trial by jury? I for one believe that the right of
trial by jury is not to be taken away from a claimant unless
it be a case coming clearly within the well-established limits
of equity and admiralty cases. I do not like to see these
provisions which have so long been the boast of our AngloSaxon system of procedure frittered away by either legislative
or judicial action.
Further, it seems a great hardship that a party who has
been brought into a court of general jurisdiction, with full
opportunity to litigate the claim of the plaintiff, and has
carried the case through all the courts of the State without
ever disputing its validity, should now obtain a reversal of
the entire proceedings when such reversal may operate to
prevent the collection of the debt. By section 33 of chapter
418, heretofore referred to, the lien expires at the expiration
of twelve months from the time the debt was contracted. Of

course, the lien is now gone. The canalboat has very likely
disappeared and the owner may be entirely irresponsible.
Even if these objections to the opinion and judgment of
the court are wholly without foundation, there is still another, broader and deeper. I do not believe that under the
true interpretation of the Constitution the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts extends to contracts for the
repairs of vessels engaged wholly in commerce within a State.
I recognize the fact that this court has decided in a series of
cases, commencing with The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BPzV-w,

J., FuLLR, C. J., and PEcHAm, J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts is not limited
by tide waters, as admiralty jurisdiction was understood to
be limited both in Great Britain and in this country at the
time the Constitution was framed, but extends to all navigable waters of the United States, and I have no disposition
to question the correctness of those decisions, or in any way
limit their scope. But what is admiralty? It is the law, not
of the water, but of the seas.
As said in Edwards on Admiralty Jurisdiction, p. 29:
"But its jurisdiction may be said to rest generally on the
following considerations: First, the nature of the property to
be adjudicated upon; secondly, the question to be decided;
thirdly, the origin of the cause; and fourthly, the locality; and
these must be of the sea to give the admiralty a jurisdiction."
So also in Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, 553, is this declaration of this court:
"Maritime contracts are such as relate to commerce and
navigation, and unless a contract to build a ship is to be
regarded as a maritime contract, it will hardly be contended
that a contract to furnish the materials to be used in accomplishing that object can fall within that category, as the latter
is more strictly a contract made on land, and to be performed
on land, than the former, and is certainly one stage further
removed from any immediate and direct relation to commerce and navigation."
It grew up out of the fact that the ocean is not the territorial
property of any nation, but the common property of all; that
vessels engaged in commerce between the different nations
ought, so far as possible, to be subject to a uniform law, and
not annoyed by the conflicting local laws and customs of the
several nations which they visit. I do not mean that the
several maritime nations did not establish different rules, or
that there is not some dissimilarity in their maritime laws, for
as long as each nation is the master of its own territory it may
legislate as it sees fit in reference to maritime matters coming
within its jurisdiction, and yet this does not abridge the fact

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U. S. Bamwzrn, J., FULxR, C. J., and PEOum,

J., dissenting.

that admiralty grew up out of the thought of having a common
law of the seas. It was well said by Mr. Justice Bradley in
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 572:
"Perhaps the maritime law is more uniformly followed by
commercial nations than the civil and common laws are by
those who use them. But, like those laws, however fixed,
definite and beneficial the theoretical code of maritime law
may be, it can have only so far the effect of law in any country
as it is permitted to have. But the actual maritime law can
hardly be said to have a fixed and definite form as to all the
subjects which may be embraced within its scope. Whilst it
is true that the great mass of maritime law is the same in all
commercial countries, yet, in each country, peculiarities exist
either as to some of the rules or in the mode of enforcing them.
Especially is this the case on the outside boundaries of the law,
where it comes in contact with or shades off into the local or
municipal law of the particular country and affects only its
own merchants or people in their relations to each other.
Whereas, in matters affecting the stranger or foreigner, the
commonly received law of the whole commercial world is more
assiduously observed-as, in justice, it should be. No one
doubts that every nation may adopt its own maritime code.
France may adopt one, England another, the United States
a third; still, the convenience of the commercial world, bound
together, as it is, by mutual relations of trade and intercourse,
demands that, in all essential things wherein those relations
bring them in contact, there should be a uniform law founded
on natural reason and justice. Hence the adoption by all
commercial nations (our own included) of the general maritime law as the basis and groundwork of all their maritime
regulations. . . . Each State adopts the maritime law,
not as a code having any independent or inherent force, proprio vigore, but as its own law, with such modifications and
qualifications as it sees fit. Thus adopted and thus qualified
in each case, it becomes the maritime law of the particular
nation that adopts it. And without such voluntary adoption
vor,. oxi-4

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
BREWER, J., FuILER,

C. J., and PnCKBAM, J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

it would not be law. And thus it happens that from the general practice of commercial nations in making the same general law the basis and groundwork of their respective maritime
systems, the great mass of maritime law which is thus received
by these nations in common comes to be the common maritime law of the world."
In the opinion of Chief Justice Taney, in The Genesee Chief,
12 How. 443, in which this court for the first time held that
the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts extended above tide
water, the argument is thus stated (p. 454):
"In England, undoubtedly, the writers upon the subject,
and the decisions in its courts of admiralty, always speak of
the jurisdiction as confined to tide water. And this definition in England was a sound and reasonable one, because
there was no navigable stream in the country beyond the
ebb and flow of the tide; nor any place where a port could be
established to carry on trade with a foreign nation, and where
vessels could enter or depart with cargoes. In England, therefore, tide water and navigable water are synonymous terms,
and tide water, with a few small and unimportant exceptions,
meant'nothing more than public rivers, as contradistinguished
from private ones; and they took the ebb and flow of the tide
as the test, because it was a convenient one, and more easily
determined the character of the river. Hence the established
doctrine in England, that the admiralty jurisdiction is confined to the ebb and flow of the tide. In other words, it is
confined to public navigable waters.
"At the time the Constitution of the United States was
adopted, and our courts of admiralty went into operation, the
definition which had been adopted in England was equally
proper here. In the old thirteen States the far greater part
of the navigable waters are tide waters. And in the States
which were at that period in any degree commercial, and
where courts of -admiralty were called on to exercise their
jurisdiction, every public river was tide water to the head
'of navigation. And, indeed, until the discovery of steamboats,

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS.
191 U.S. Buzwzn, J., FLzmn,0. J., and PncMaAM, J., dissenting.

there could be nothing like foreign commerce upon waters with
an unchanging currentresistingthe upwardpassage. The courts
of the United States, therefore, naturally adopted the English
mode of defining a public river, and consequently the boundary
of admiralty jurisdiction. It measured it by tide water. And
that definition having found its way into our courts, became,
after a time, the familiar mode of describing a public river, and
was repeated, as cases occurred, without particularly examining whether it was as universally applicable in this country
as it was in England."
Again, as said by this court, in The Propeller Commerce, 1
Black, 574, 579:
"All such waters are, in truth, but arms of the sea, and are
as much within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of
the United States as the sea itself."
Such being the general nature of admiralty, and the jurisdiction of its courts being understood, at the time of the adoption of our Constitution, to relate to the ocean and the arms
thereof, with the view of uniformity in respect to international
commerce, what was granted to the general government when
to its courts was given exclusive jurisdiction over "all cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction?" Did it mean that
the judicial power of the United States should extend to con.
troversies respecting contracts and torts concerning every vessel upon all the waters of the several States? It is not pretended that it did. Take an inland lake, wholly within the
limits of the territory of a State and having no connection
with the ocean. The admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal
courts does not extend to contracts or collisions in respect to
or upon such waters. The Montello, 11 Wall. 411. But why
should the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States courts
not extend to landlocked waters wholly within the limits of a
State when it does extend to waters having connection with
the ocean? Clearly, as shown by the quotation from Chief
Justice Taney's opinion in The Genesee Chief, because since
the use of steam, foreign commerce may extend into such

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BRL-WrnR, J., FuI

nr, 0. J.,

andPcKHAm,

J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

waters, and therefore, the full exercise of the admiralty jurisdiction which concerns the law of the sea requires that that
jurisdiction should be co-extensive with waters which may
be traversed by oceangoing vessels. It matters not whether
such waters are natural or artificial highways, canals or rivers.
If they open to the ocean or are connected with the ocean
they become, or may become, the highways of ocean commerce, and therefore in order that the admiralty jurisdiction
may be fully exercised it was held, and rightfully, in The
Genesee Chief, that it extends to all navigable waters of the
United States. Take the case of a landlocked lake within
the limits of New York. Unquestionably the State has full
jurisdiction over its waters and the vessels traversing them.
The admiralty courts of the United States would not assume
any jurisdiction. Can it be that if the State of New York
constructs a canal by which the waters of that lake are connected with the ocean, it is deprived of its full jurisdiction
over those waters and the vessels traversing them? Doubtless to a certain extent and for the purpose of fully effectuating the admiralty jurisdiction of the nation the Federal courts
in admiralty would have a certain jurisdiction. Take the case
of The Diana, Lush. 539, in which Dr. Lushington assumed
jurisdiction over a collision between two British vessels in the
Great North Holland Canal. Can it for a moment be supposed that the English admiralty courts would take jurisdiction of a claim for repairs made on a Dutch canalboat in such
canal; or, to bring the case nearer home, would the British
admiralty courts take jurisdiction of the claim of this plaintiff for the work done upon the defendant's canalboat? Or
would the admiralty courts of the United States take jurisdiction of a like actibn brought for repairs done to a canalboat
on the canal between Liverpool and Manchester? Clearly
these matters are of local significance, and of local significance alone.
If it be said that the State of New York in the case cited
would, notwithstanding the construction of a canal between

THE ROBERT W. PARSONS..
191 tT. S.

BREWER, J., FULLER,

C. J., and PF.cKA,

J., dissenting.

the hitherto landlocked lake and the ocean, still retain jurisdiction to enforce claims for repairs, but only by proceedings
according to the course of the common law, I reply that, while
it remained still a landlocked lake with no connection with
the ocedn, the State of New York, having full jurisdiction,
could, as we have seen, resort to any proceeding it saw fit for
the enforcement of claims for repairs. It has full control over
its own procedure and may change and alter it as it sees fit.
Can it be that, having such power before the waters are
connected with the ocean, it loses that power by the act of
connecting the waters with the ocean, and is deprived of its
hitherto unquestioned control over the remedies it chooses to
provide?
But it is said that given the fact that the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts extends to all navigable waters
of the United States, and that such jurisdiction is exclusive,
it follows that the moment any navigable waters are connected with the ocean the jurisdiction of the Federal courts
over those waters becomes exclusive. In this case we touch
upon the difference between contracts and torts. As said in
The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 637:
"Principal subjects of admiralty jurisdiction are maritime
contracts and maritime torts, including captures fure belli,
and seizures on water for municipal and revenue forfeitures.
"(1.) Contracts, claims, or service, purely maritime, and
touching rights and duties appertaining to commerce and navigation, are cognizable in the admiralty.
"(2.) Torts or injuries committed on navigable waters, of
a civil nature, are also cognizable in the admiralty courts.
"Jurisdiction in the former case depends upon the nature
of the contract, but in the latter it depends entirely upon
locality."
We have here no matter of torts, but simply one of contract.
The question, therefore, is not one of locality, but one of the
nature of the contract. The contract was for work done, not
on an oceangoing vessel or one capable of engaging in foreign

OCTOBER TERAT, 1903.
Bimwm, J., FULLER, C. J., and PEcnxa, J., dissenting. 191 U. S.

commerce, or, like a tug, The Glide, 167 U. S. 606, one which
can be used directly in assisting foreign commerce, but a canalboat necessarily used only on inland waters, and in fact only
so used. Can this fairly be adjudged a maritime contract?
I think not. Wilson v. Lawrence, 82 N. Y. 409; Edwards v.
Elliott, 21 Wall. 532. In addition to the fact that this boat
was designed primarily for use upon a canal, to be drawn by
animals moving on the land, the place at which the work was
done is also worthy of consideration. While the admiralty
jurisdiction may extend to canals, yet the United States have
no such exclusive control over canals as over natural navigable waters. The canal was built by the State, is owned by
the State, and it cannot for one moment be assumed that the
national government can interfere to restrict the State as to
the size of the canal, the depth of water, the construction of
bridges, or other things in respect to which it has full control
over the natural navigable waters. It seems an anomaly that
when the State builds a waterway and owns a waterway, and
has a general control over that waterway, it cannot provide
as it sees fit for enforcing claims for work done on vessels
navigating such highway when the vessels are of a character
which prevents them being used for any foreign commerce.
Recapitulating: I dissent from the opinion and judgment of
the court because, first, I think the contract, being made on
land, for work to be done on land, and in fact done upon the
land, is not a maritime contract, and therefore cannot be a
subject of admiralty jurisdiction. Second, the proceeding,
which was instituted was authorized by the statutes of the
State, and in its essential features an ordinary proceeding according to the course of the common law, which may always
be resorted to, even in respect to contracts which are of strictly
a maritime nature. Third, because the grant to the national
government over admiralty and maritime matters was in furtherance of commerce between this nation and others and
designed to secure uniformity in respect thereto, and does not
extend to contracts made in respect to vessels which are in-

WRIGHT v. MORGAN.
191 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

capacitated from foreign commerce, designed and used exclusively for mere local traffic within a State.
I am authorized to say that the CHEF JUSTICE and MR.
JUSTICE Pmcyn&M concur in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAw

also dissents.

WRIGHT v. MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 13. Argued October 13, 14,1903.-Decided October 26, 1903.

An act of Congress entitled " An act to enable the City of Denver to purchase certain lands for a cemetery" authorized the mayor to enter the
lands at a minimum price "to be held and used for a burial place for
said city and vicinity." A patent was issued conveying.the land to the
"mayor in trust for said city and to his successors" which was confirmed by a later act. The Catholic Bishop of Denver petitioned the
common council for a conveyance of a part of the land to him and his
successors on the ground that it had been bought by him and used as
a burial place. The petition was granted and the mayor made a deed
in the name of the city, the grantee being described as Bishop of Colorado, habendam to him and his heirs. Subsequently the bishop conveyed a part of the land so conveyed to him which had not been used for
burial purposes to defendant's predecessor in title. A later mayor
brought ejectment for this part.
Held, that the title was not in the plaintiff.
Seemble, that the title was in the city, that it had power to convey the land
and that the deed executed was sufficient so far as the question was open.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Halsted L. Ritter and .(r. Frederick A. Williams for
plaintiff in error.

