OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Parties.

191 U. S.

462, decided by the Supreme Court of California, June 26, 1903,
where it was held (we quote from the syllabus) that "the title
of an amendatory act which gives the title of the original act
in full and the number of the section in its amended form is
sufficient." People v. Parvin, supra, was cited, and it was
observed that that case was discussed in Lewis v. Dunne, "and
distinguished but not overruled." And it was also observed
that the Parvin case had been approved in Francaisv. Somps,
92 California, 503.
Order affirmed. Mandate forthwith.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA AND GULF R. R. CO. v. McDADE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 26. Submitted October 14, 1903-Decided Nbovember 2, 1903.
It is the duty of a railroad company to use due care to provide a reasonably safe place and safe appliances for the use of workmen in its employ. It is obliged to use the same degree of care to provide properly
constructed roadbed, structures and track to be used in the operation
of the road.
The servant has a right to assume that the master has used due diligence
in providing suitable appliances for the operation of his business and
does not assume the risk of the employer's negligence in making such
provision.
While an employ6 who continues without objection in his master's employ with knowledge of a defective apparatus assumes the hazard incident to the situation, unless the evidence plainly shows the assumption
of the risk, it is a question properly left to the jury.

THE facts appear in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J. W. McLoud for plaintiff in error.
I Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh for defendant in error.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. MIoDADE.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.
AR.

65

JusTIcE

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover for the death, by wrongful actr
of John I. McDade, an employ6 of the Choctaw, Oklahoma and,
Gulf Railroad Company. The plaintiff recovered a judgment,
in the Circuit Court, which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals. 112 Fed. Rep. 888.
There was evidence tending to show that McDade, a brakeman in the employ of the company, was killed on the night of
August 19, 1900, while engaged in the discharge of his duties
as head brakeman on a car in one of the company's trains.
McDade was at his post of duty and when last seen was trans-.
mitting a signal from the conductor to the engineer to run
past the station of Goodwin, Arkansas, which the train was'
then approaching. The train passed Goodwin at a rate of'
from twenty to twenty-five miles an hour. At Goodwin there;
was a water tank, having attached thereto an iron spout,
which, when not in use, hung at an angle from the side of the
tank. Shortly after passing Goodwin, McDade was missed
from the train, and upon search-being instituted, his lantern
was found near the place on the car where he was at the time
of giving the signal. His body was found at a distance of
about six hundred and seventy-five feet beyond the Goodwin
tank. There was also testimony tending to show, from the
location of the waterspout and the injuries upon the head and
person of McDade, that he was killed as a result of being struckby the overhanging spout. The car upon which McDade was
engaged at the time of the injury was a furniture car, wider
and higher than the average car, and of such size as to make
it highly dangerous to be on top of it at the place it was necessary to be when giving signals, in view of the fact that the
spout cleared the car by less than the height of a man above
the car when in position to perform the duties required of him.
There was no eyewitness as to the exact manner of the injury to McDade, and it is urged that the court below should
have taken the case from the jury because of the lack of testiVOL. OXci-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

191 U. S.

mony upon this point. It was left to the jury under proper
instructions to find whether McDade came to his death in
the manner stated in the declaration, and the court distinctly
charged that, unless satisfied of this, there could be no verdict
against the railroad company. While the evidence was circumstantial, it was ample, in our opinion, to warrant the submission of this question to the jury under the instructions given.
Furniture cars, like the one on which McDade was riding, were
received and transported over this road. There is testimony
tending to show that a proper construction of the tank and
appliances required the spout to hang vertically when not in
use, and other testimony to the effect that when hung in this
manner it would be difficult, if not impossible, for the fireman
to pull down the spout in taking water, and that to hang it at
an angle is, at least, a more convenient method of adjustment.
Be this as it may, the testimony makes it clear that in the
proper construction of this appliance there is no necessity of
bringing it so near to the car as to endanger brakemen working thereon. Whether hung at an angle or not, it can be so
constructed as to leave such space between it and-the top of
the car as to make it entirely safe for brakemen in passing.
The testimony makes it equally clear that when on the furniture car, McDade, sitting at his post, would be likely to be
struck by the spout in passing. It is undoubtedly true that
many duties required of employ~s in the transaction of the
business to be carried on by a railroad company are necessarily attended with danger, and can only be prosecuted by
means which are hazardous and dangerous to those who see
fit to enter into such employment. Where no necessity exists,
as in the present case, for the use of dangerous appliances, and
where it is a matter requiring only due skill and care to make
the appliances safe, there is no reason why an employ6 should
be subjected to dangers wholly unnecessary to the proper
operation of the business of the employer. Kelleher, Admr.,
v. Milwaukee & Northern R. R. Co., 80 Wisconsin, 584; Georgia
& Pacific Railway Go. v. Davis, 92 Alabama, 300; 1 Shearman

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. McDADE.
191 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

& Redfield on Negligence, 5th edition, section 201, and cases
cited.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in affirming the
instructions upon this subject given by Judge Hammond to
the jury, in which he said: "It is so simple a task, one so devoid
of all exigencies of expense, necessity or convenience, so free of
any consideration of skill, except that of the foot rule, and so
entirely destitute of any element of choice or selection, that
not to make such a construction safe for the brakeman on the
trains is a conviction of negligence."
It is the duty of a railroad company to use due care to provide
a ieasonably safe place and safe appliances for the use of workmen in its employ. It is obliged to use ordinary care to provide
properly constructed roadbed, structures and track to be used
in the operation of the road. Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. O'Brien,
161 U. S. 451. The spout might readily have been so constructed and hung as to be safe. As it was maintained it was
a constant menace to the lives and limbs of employ~s whose
duties required them, by night and day, to pass the structure.
It is a case where the dangerous structure is not justified by
the necessity of the situation, and we agree with the judgments in the courts below that its maintenance under the
circumstances was negligence upon the part of the railroad
company. The court, having left to the jury to find the fact
as to whether McDade was killed by the obstruction, did not
err in giving instruction that the negligent manner in which
the waterspout was maintained was, of itself, a conviction of
negligence.
The court left to the jury the question of the assumption of
risk upon the part of McDade with instructions which did not
permit of recovery if he either knew of the danger of collision
with the waterspout, or, by the observance of ordinary care
upon his part, ought to have known of it. The servant assumes the risk of dangers incident to the business of the master, but not of the latter's negligence. Hough v. Railway Co.,
100 U. S. 213; Wabash Ry. Co. v. McDaniels, 107 U. S. 454;

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opiniou of the Court.

191 U. S.

N. P. R. R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642; N. P. R. R. Co. v.
Babcock, 154 U. S. 190. The question of assumption of risk
is quite apart from that of contributory negligence. The
servant has the right to assume that the master has used due
diligence to provide suitable appliances in the operation of
his business, and he does not assume the risk of the employer's
negligence in performing such duties. The employ6 is not
obliged to pass judgment upon the employer's methods of
transacting his business, but may assume that reasonable care
will be used in furnishing the appliances necessary for its
operation. This rule is subject to the exception that where
a defect is known to the employ6, or is so patent as to be
readily observed by him, he cannot continue to use the defective apparatus in the face of knowledge and without objection, without assuming the hazard incident to such a situation.
In other words, if he knows of a defect, or it is so plainly observable that he may be presumed to know of it, and continues in the master's employ without objection, he is taken
to have made his election to continue in the employ of the
master, notwithstanding the defect, and in such case cannot
recover. The charge of the court upon the assumption of risk
was more favorable to the plaintiff in error than the law required, as it exonerated the railroad company from fault if,
in the exercise of ordinary care, McDade might have discovered the danger. Upon this question the true test is not
in the exercise of care to discover dangers, but whether the
defect is known or plainly observable by the employ6. Texa
& PacificRy. Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 665.
There was testimony tending to show that McDade had been
over the part of the road where the Goodwin tank was situated
only a few times, and that part of the trips were made in the
night season, and also that the furniture cars were of unusual
height as compared with those generally used in the transaction of the business of the company. Neither the assumption
of risk nor the contributory negligence of the plaintiff below
was so plainly evident as to require the jury to be instructed

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA &c. R. R. CO. v. McDADE.
191 U. S.

69

Opinion of the Court.

to find against the plaintiff, but, under the facts disclosed,
these matters were properly left to the determination of the.

jury.
Numerous exceptions were taken to the refusal of the court
to charge in certain respects, but as the charge given was
proper and pertinent to the facts and sufficiently comprehensive, it was not error to refuse such requests. The assignments of error as to the admission of testimony were
nearly all based upon exceptions general in their character,
and under the well-settled rule not reviewable here. Burton
v. Driggs, 20 Wall. 125; Noonan v. Caledonia Mining Co., 121
U. S. 393, 398; District of Columbia v. Woodbury, 136 U. S.
450, 462.
The one of most gravity is as to the admission of testimony
to show that after the accident the waterspout at Goodviin
was reconstructed so as to be placed at a point farther removed
from passing trains. Evidence having been introduced by the
railroad company to show by measurements that the waterspout did not constitute danger to brakemen on passing trains,
the court permitted plaintiff below to show that changes had
been made which might have an effect upon the subsequent
measurements offered in evidence. The jury were told that
nothing could be inferred against the defendant company by
reason of the fact that after the accident such reconstruction
of the spout was made, and thatsuch change had no other
bearing upon the issues of the case than to enable the jury to
ascertain the value of the measurements offered in evidence.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is

Affirmed.

