OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

their withdrawal from - warehouse. This construction was
contrary to the general understanding of the section and the
practice of the Department. This, then, is our view: the
Attorney General having construed the proviso of section 50
of the act of 1890 as not restricted to the matter which immediately preceded it, but as of general application, and this
construction having been followed by the executive officers
charged with the administration of the law, Congress adopted
the construction by the enactment of section 33 of the act of
1897 and intended to make no other change than to require
as the basis of duty the weight of the merchandise at the time
of entry instead of its weight at the time of its withdrawal from
warehouse.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore reversed
and that of the CircuitCourt is affirmed and the case remanded
to the latter court.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

NEW YORK, ex rel. HATCH, v. REARDON, PEACE
OFFICER OF THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 310.

Argued December 11, 12, 13, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907..

The rule that the general expressions of the Fourteenth Amendment must
not be allowed to upset familiar and'long established methods is applicable to stamp taxes which are necessarily confined to certain classes of
transactions, which, in some points of view are similar to classes that
escape.

Whether a tax on transfers of stock is equivalent to a tax on the stock
itself depends on the scope of the constitutional provision involved and
whatever may be the rights of parties engaged in interstate commerce,
a sale depends in part on the laws of the State where made and that State
may make the parties pay for the help of its laws.
rhere must be a fixed mode of ascertaining a stamp tax, and equality in the
sense of actual value has to yield to practical considerations and usage.

HATCH v. REARDON.
204 U. S.

Argument for'Plaintiff in Error.

of a
Although a statute, unconstitutional as to one, is void as to all.
class, the party setting up, in this court, the unconstitutionality of a
state tax law must belong to the class for whose sake the constitutional
protection is given, or the class primarily protected.
The protection of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution is not
aWailable to defeat a state stamp tax law on transactions wholly within
a State because they affect property without that State, or because one
or both of the parties previously came from other States.
The tax of two cents a share imposed on transfers of stock, made within
that State, by the tax law of New York of 1905, does not violate the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as an arbitrary
discrimination because only imposed on transfers of stock, or because
based on par, and not market, value; nor does it deprive non-resident
owners of stock transferring, in New York, shares of stock of non-resident
corporations of their property without due process of law; nor is it as
to such transfers of stock an interference with interstate commerce.
184 N. Y. 431, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the stock
transfer law of the State of New York, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John G.Milburn, Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr. John G.
Johnson for plaintiff in error:
To tax sales of shares of corporate stock exclusively is an
arbitrary discrimination in violation of the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment securing the equal protection of the
laws.
The act selects from the mass of property, real and personal,
in the State, one particular species, and one only, and imposes
a tax upon every sale and transfer thereof. Sales of every
other species of property are, and always have been, untaxed.
The owners of every kind of property may freely sell it in the
State of New York without paying any tax, save only the
owners of shares of corporate stock. Such owners alone are
selected to bear an exceptional and peculiar burden, and sales
of corporate shares are arbitrarily put in a class by themselves
-for the purposes of this tax.
Classification of persons, property or transactions for purposes of taxation must be based on some real distinction to
satisfy the constitutional guarantee of equality.
The general rule of equality is that all persons subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

legislation "shall be treated alike, under like circumstances
and conditions, both in the privileges conferred and in the
limitations imposed." Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71;
Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382; Pembina Mining Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 125 U.S. 181, 1.88; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe
Co., 184 U. S.540; Gulf &C. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 159.
Classification for the purposes of taxation is subject to the
above rule of equality. Santa Clara Co. v. Southern Pac.
R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Central R. R. Co. v. Board of
Assessors, 48 N. J.L. 1; In re Pell, 171 N. Y. 48.
There is no basis for the separation of sales of shares of corporate stock from sales of all other species of persoinal property
for the purposes of taxation.
Shares of stock represent a proportional part of the property,
real and personal, of the corporation issuing it. Jellenik v.
Huron Copper Mining Co., 177 U. S. 1, 13; People v. Coleman,
126 N. Y. 433, 437; Matter of Enston, 113 N. Y. 174, 181;
Flynn v. Brooklyn City R. R.Co., 158 N. Y. 493, 504. They
are sold in the market and pass by transfer and delivery. The
same is true of corporate bonds, of bills of lading representing
property in transportation, of warehouse receipts representing
property in storage, and of other kindred, forms of property.
The act imposes a tax on sales in New York of the shares of
a foreign corporation owned by non-residents, -and is a taking
of their property without due process of law, in violation of.
the Fourteenth Amendment, which invalidates the whole act.
A tax on a sale of property is virtually a tax-on the property
itself; a tax on the amount of sales of goods made by an auctioneer is a tax on the goods so sold. Cook v. Pennsylvania,
97 U. S. 566, 573. A tax on the privilege of selling property
at the exchange and of thus using the facilities there afforded
in accomplishing the sale differs radically from a tax upon
every sale made in any place. The latter tax is really and
practically upon property. It takes no notice of any kind of
privilege or facility, and the fact of a sale is alone regarded.
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521; Brown v. Maryland, 12

HATCH v. REARDON.
204 U. S.

Argument for tDefendant in Error.

Wheat. 419, 444. On the same principle a tax on income from
property is a tax on the property producing it,. and a tax on a
bill of lading is a tax on the property represented by it. Pollock
v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S.429, 581; Almy v. California,
24 How. 169; Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283.
As the act is invalid with respect to shares in foreign corporations owned by non-residents and sold here, and as that part
or operation of the act is an essential part of it and not separable
from the remainder, and it is not clear that the legislature
would have enacted it without including sales of shares in
'foreign corporations owned by non-residents, the necessary result is that the whole act must be held invalid. Pollock v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 158 U. S. 601, 635; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565.
This tax law is void under the commerce clause of the United
States Constitution because it taxes any and every sale within
the State of New York of stock in a foreign corporation, though
such stock belongs to a person not a resident of the State of
New York, and such sale is made by such non-resident, and
though no certificates of the shares. of such stock ever existed
or were ever delivered to the purchaser.
If not void in toto this tax law is void as applied to a nonresident owner and seller of shares in a foreign corporation.
The situs of the property owned by a shareholder in a corporation is either where the corporation exists, or at the domicil of the shareholder. Enston case, 113 N. Y. 174, 181; In
re James, 144 N. Y. 6, 12; State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds,
15 Wall. 300; Delaware R. R. Tax, 18 Wall. 206; Jellenik v.
Huron Mining Co., 177 U. S. 1; Union Re/rig. Co. v. Kentucky,
199 U. S. 194.
This act violates the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Robbins v. Shelby Co., 120 U. S. 489; Corson v. Maryland, 120
U. S. 502; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Stockard v. Morgan,
185 U. S.27; Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460.
Mr. Julius M. Mayer, Attorney General of the State of New

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

York, and Mr. E. Crosby Kindleberger,with whom Mr. Horace
McGuire and Mr. James C. Graham were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The statute under consideration does not deny to the plaintiff in error and to all owners of shares of corporate stock the
equal protection of the laws, contrary, to the Fourteenth Amendinent. United States v. Thomas, 115 Fed. Rep. 207; S. C. 192
U. S. 363; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.
The act is' not "arbitrary and discriminating" in its character and operation, and does not violate "the fundamental
principles of the taxing power," which is only a way of stating
that it takes appellant's property "without due process of law,"
against the Federal and state constitutions; and denies to the
holders of the stock of corporations "the equal protection of
the laws," in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
If the United States have power to levy stamp tax, States
have like power. United States v. Thomas, supra, decides that
the United'States have such power.
The law does not violate the commerce clause of the Constitution either between the States or as to foreign nations.
Passenger cases, 7 How. 283, 480; State Tax on Foreign
Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319; Savings Soc'y v. Multnomah
County, 169 U. S. 421; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309;
Delaware Jailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 231; Steamship Co. v.
Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326-336; Vermont & Canada R: R. Co. v.
Vermofit Central R. R. Co., 63 Vermont, 119; PittsburghCoal Co.
v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; S. C., 40 La. Ann. 226; Brown v. Houston,
114 U. S. 622; Woodruff v. Parhum, 8 Wall. 123; Coe v. Errol,116
U. S. 517; StandardOil Co. v. Combs, 96 Indiana, 179; Rieman v.
Shepard, 27 Indiana, 288; Carrier v. Gordon, 21 Ohio St. 605;
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Am. Steel and Wire Co. v.
Speed, 192 U. S. 520.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to revise an order dismissing a writ of

HATCH v. REARDON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

habeas corpus and remanding the relator to the custody of the
defendant in error. The order was made by a single Justice
and affirmed successively by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, 110 App. Div. 821, and by the Court of Appeals,
184 N. Y. 431. The facts are these: The relator, Hatch, a
resident of Connecticut, sold in New York to one Maury, also a
resident of Connecticut, but doing business in New York, one:
hundred shares of the stock of the Southern Railway Conipany, a Virginia corporation, and one hundred shares of the
stock of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad Company, a Wisconsin corporation, and on the same day and
in the same place received payment and delivered the certificates, assigned in blank. He made no memorandum of the
sale and affixed to no document any stamp, and did not otherwise pay the tax on transfers of stock imposed by the New York
Laws of 1905, c. 241. He was arrested on complaint, and
thereupon petitioned for this writ, alleging that the law was
void under the Fourteenth Amendment of .th Constitution of
the United States.
The statute in question levies a tax of two cents on each
hundred dollars of face value of stock, for every sale or agreement to sell the same, etc.; to be paid by affixing and cancelling stamps for the requisite amount to the books of the company, the stock certificate, or a memorandum required in
certain cases. Failure to pay the tax is made a misdemeanor
punishable by fine, imprisonment, or both. There is also a
civil penalty attached. The petition for the writ sets up only
the Fourteenth Amendment, as we have mentioned, but both
sides have argued the case under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, Art. I, section 8, as well, and we shall say a few
words on that aspect of the question.
It is true that a very similar stamp act of the United.States,
the act of June 13, 1898, c., 448, ยง 25, Schedule A, 30 Stat. 448,
458, was upheld in Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363.
But it is argued that different considerations apply to the States
and the tax is said to be bad under the Fourteenth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

ment for several reasons. In the first place it is said to be an
arbitrary discrimination. This objection to a tax must be
approached with the greatest caution. The general expressions of the Amendment must not be allowed to upset familiar
and long-established methods and processes by a formal elaboration of rules which its words do not import. See Michigan
Central Railroad Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 245, 293. Stamp
acts necessarily are confined to certain classes of transactions,
and to classes which, considered economically or from the legal
or other possible points of view, are not very different from
other classes that escape. You cannot have a stamp act without something that can be stamped conveniently. And it is
easy to contend that justice and equality can not be measured
by the convenience of the taxing power. Yet the economists
do not condemin stamp acts, and neither does the Constitution.
The objection did not take this very broad form to be sure.

But it was said that there was no basis for the separation of
sales of stock from sales of other kinds of personal property,
for instance, especially, bonds of the same or other companies.
But bonds in most cases pass by delivery and a stamp tax
hardly could be enforced. See further, Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.
509, 522, 523. In Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, practical
grounds were recognized as sufficient to warrant a prohibition,
which did not apply to sales of other property, of sales of stock
on margin, although this same argument was pressed with
great force. A fortiori do they warrant a tax on sales, which
is not intended to discriminate against or to discourage them,
but simply to collect a revenue for the benefit of the whole
community in a convenient way.
It is urged further that a tax on sales is really a tax on property, and that therefore the act, as applied to the shares of- a
foreign corporation owned by non-residents, is a taking of

property without due process of law. Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. This argument presses
the expressions in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444;
Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283, and intervening cases,

HATCH v. REARDON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to new applications, and farther than they properly can be
made to go. Whether we are to distinguish or to identify taxes
on sales and taxes on goods depends on the scope of the constitutional provision concerned. Compare Foppiano v. Speed,
199 U. S. 501, 520. A tax on foreign bills of lading may be
held equivalent to a tax on exports as against Article I, section
9; a license tax on importers of foreign goods may be held an
unauthorized interference with commerce; and yet it would be
consistent to sustain a tax on sales within the State as against
the Fourteenth Amendment so far as that alone is concerned.
Whatever the right of parties engaged in commerce among the
States, a sale depends in part on the law of the State where it
takes place for its validity and, in the courts of that State, at
least, for the mode of proof. No one would contest the power
to enact a statute of frauds for such transactions. Therefore
*the State may make parties pay for the help of its laws, as
against this objection. A statute requiring a memorandum
in writing is quite as clearly a regulation of the business as a
tax. It is unnecessary to consider other answers to this point.
Yet another ground on which the owners of stock are said to
be deprived of their property without due process of law is the
adoption of the face value of the shares as the basis of the tax.
One of the stocks was worth *thirty dollars and seventy-five
cents a share of the face value of one hundred dollars, the other
one hundred and seventy-two dollars. The inequality of the
tax, so far as actual values are concerned, is manifest. But,
here again equality in this sense has to yield to practical considerations and usage. There must be a fixed and indisputable
mode of ascertaining a stamp tax. In another sense, moreover,
there is equality. When the taxes on two sales are equal the
same number of shares is sold in each case; that is to say, the
same privilege is used to the same extent. Valuation is not
the only thing to be considered. As was pointed out by the
Court of Appeals, the familiar stamp tax of two cents on checks,
irrespective of amount, the poll tax of a fixed sum, irrespective
of income or darning capacity, and many others, illustrate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

necessity and practice of sometimes substituting count for
weight. See Bell Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.
232; Merchant & Manufacturers' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167
U. S. 461. Without going farther into a discussion which,
perhaps, could have been spared in view of the decision in
Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363, and the constitutional
restrictions upon Congress, we are of opinion that the New York
statute is valid, so far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned.
The other ground of attack is that the act is an interference
with commerce among the several States. Cases were imagined, which, it was said, would fall within the statute, and yet
would be cases of such commerce; and it was argued that if
the act embraced any such cases it was void as to them, and,
if void as to them, void altogether, on a principle often stated.
United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262. That the act is
void as to transactions in commerce between the States, if it
applies to them, is thought to be shown by the decisions concerning ordinances requiring a license fee from drummers, so
called, and the like. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; Rearick v.
Pennsylvania, 203 U. &507.
But there is a point beyond which this court does not consider arguments of this sort for the purpose of invalidating the
tax laws of a State on constitutional grounds. This limit has
been fixed in many cases. It is that unless the party setting
up the unconstitutionality of the state law belong to the class,
for whose sake the constitutional protection is given, or the
class primarily protected, this court does not listen to his objections, and will not go into imagifiary cases, notwithstanding
the seeming logic of. the position that it must do so, because
if for any reason, or as against any class embraced, the law is
unconstitutional, it is void as to all. Supervisors v. Stanley,
105 U. S. 305, 311; Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S. 114, 118;
Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276, 283, 284; Cronin v. Adams,
192 U. S. 108, 114. If the law is valid when confined to the

HATCH v. REARDON.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

class of the party before the court, it may be more or less of a
speculation to inquire what exceptions the state court may
read into general words, or how far it may sustain ain act that
partially fails. With regard to taxes, especially, perhaps it
might be assumed that the legislature meant them to be valid
to,.whatever extent they could be sustained, or some other
peculiar principle might be applied. See e. g. People's National Bank v. Marye, 191 U. S. 272, 283.
Whatever the reason, the decisions are clear, and it was because of them that it was inquire([ so carefully in the drummer
cases whether the party concerned was himself engaged in
commerce between the States. Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S.
27, 30, 35, 36; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507. Therefore we begin
with the same inquiry in this case, and it is plain 'that we can
get no farther. There is not a shadow of a ground for calling
the transaction described such commerce. The conimunications between the parties were not between different States, as
in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and
the bargain did not contemplate or induce the transport of
property from one State to another, as in the drummer cases.
.Rearickv. Pennsylvania,supra. The bargain was not affected in
any way, legally or practically, by the fact that the parties happened to have come from another State before they made it.
It does not appear that the petitioner came into New York to
sell his stock, as it was put on his behalf. It appears only that
he sold after coming into the State. But we are far from implying that it would have made any difference if he had come
to New York with the supposed intent before any bargain was
made.
It is said that the property sold was not within the State.
,rhe immediate object of sale was the certificate of stock present in New York. That document was more than evidence,
it was a constituent of title. No doubt, in a more remote sense,
the object was the membership or share which the certificate
conferred or made attainable.. More remotely still it was an
VOL.

cCwV-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabum.

204 U S.

interest in the property of the corporation, which might be in
other States than either the corporation or the certificate of
stock. But we.perceive no relevancy in the analysis. The
facts that the property sold is outside of the State and the
seller and buyer foreigners are not enough to make a sale commerce with foreign nations or among the several States, and
that is all that there is here.-On the general question there
should be compared with the drummer cases the decisions on
the other side of the line. Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How.-73;
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114
U. S. 622; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296. A tax is not
an unconstitutional regulation in every case where an absolute
prohibition of sales would be one. American Steel and Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. We think it unnecessary to explain at greater length the reasons for our opinion that the
petitioner has suffered no unconstitutional wrong.
Order affirmed.

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL BANK v. HULITT.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 108.

Argued November 16, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

While the mere pledgee of national bank stock cannot be held for double
liability as a shareholder so long as the shares are not registered in his
name, although an irresponsible person may have been selected as the
registered shareholder, the real owner of the shares may be held responsible although the shares may not be registered in his name.
Where the pledgee of national bank stock has by consent credited the'
agreed value of the stock belonging to the pledgor, but registered in the '
name of a third party who is the agent of the pledgee, on the note, and
then proved his claim for the balance against the estate of the pledgor
the title to the stock has so vested in the pledgee that, notwithstanding
the stock has not been transferred, he is liable to assessment thereon as
the owner thereof.

