504

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

CLARK v. GERSTLEY,
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 169.

Argued January 17, 18, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

McGuire v. Gerstley, ante, p. 489, followed and held also:
The liability of sureties on the bond in this case given to secure payment
for goods sold on a specified credit was not affected by failure of the sellers
to notify the sureties of non-payment at the expiration of the credit,
or by their giving an extension of credit, there being no definite term of
such extension.
26 App. D. C. 205, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Eugene A. Jones, with whom Mr. Simon Wolf and
Mr. Myer Cohen were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error, plaintiffs below, obtained judgment against the plaintiff in error for $5,000 and interest in
April, 1905, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 26
App. D. C. 205, and the plaintiff in error has brought the case
here for review.
It is the same action as the foregoing case, just decided,
but the plaintiff in error, who was one of the sureties in the
bond, separately filed special pleas to the declaration, which
were separately%demurred to, and the Supreme Court sustained the demurrer. On appeal to the Court of Appeals
the demurrer' was not disposed of at the same time as the
demurrers to the other pleas in the case, but was postponed
to a subsequent time, April 7, 1905. On that date the de-

ARTHUR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 505
204 U. S.

Syllabus.

murrer was sustained and the judgment previously entered
affirmed against this plaintiff in error, who then brought
the case here on a separate writ of error.
The special pleas filed by the plaintiff in error were seven
in number, the first six being the same as filed by the other
plaintiffs in error in the case. The seventh set up the failure
of the plaintiffs to give notice to the sureties that the principals
in the bond had not paid for the goods at the expiration of
the' term of credit allowed them, and also that the time had
been extended by the plaintiffs in which the principals in the
bond might pay for the goods sold to them. No definite
term of extension was stated. What has already been said
in regard to the other six pleas in the case determines the
decision in regard to the same pleas hereinabove set forth.
In regard to the seventh plea the plaintiff in error says in his
brief in this court that he makes no point concerning the same.
Judgment affirmed.

ARTHUR v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 176. Argued January 24, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.
Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427, followed as to binding effect
of agreements in bills of lading exempting carrier from fire loss and claimed
to have been forced on the shipper under duress and without consideration.
Where a railway company has no other place for delivery of cotton than the
stores and platform of a compress company, where all cotton transported
by it is compressed at its expense and by its order; its acceptance of,
and exchange of its own bills of lading for, receipts of the compress
company passes to it the constructive possession and absolute control
of the cotton represented thereby, and constitutes a, complete' delivery to it thereof ; nor can the railway company thereafter divest itself
of responsibility for due care by leaving the cotton in the hands of the
compress company as that company becomes its agent.
.

