KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

43

Argument for Appellants.

KANN v. KING.

WEBB v. KING.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF,
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 16, 17. Argued March 8, 9, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.
Whatever power a court of equity may have to relieve a tenant from forfeiture for breach of covenant to pay taxes, it cannot require the owner
to risk the loss of his property by compelling him to contest the validity
of an irredeemable tax title, based on taxes not paid by the tenant, so
that if the title be invalid the tenant may pay the taxes and be relieved
of the forfeiture, nor is this rule affected by the fact that the tax title
is held by a third party.
Where the forfeiture from which relief is sought has been occasioned by
gross negligence of the person seeking relief the default is not one brought.
about by accident or mistake.
Even if default in complying with a covenant has been brought about by
accident or 'mistake, in the absence of culpability of the other party a
court of equity ,will not relieve the party in default from forfeiture unless
it can be done with justice. to the innocent party.
Where a lease contains a covenant to pay taxes, the fact that the owner
has on some occasions collected the amount from the tenant and himself
paid the taxes does not relieve the tenant from the obligation to pay the
taxes according to the lease, or, where it appears that his failure to do
so was not the result of the owner's conduct, relieve him from the forfeiture resulting from his breach of the covenant to pay them.
Where a tenant is in default and his lease subject to forfeiture for nonpayment of taxes for which the property has been sold, and before the
landlord determines to ayail of the forfeiture, he offers to condone it
provided the tenant commence proceedings to have the outstanding
tax title declared invalid and secure him from loss in case it be sustained
and the tenant refuses so to do, no principle of equity prevents the landlord, or renders his action fraudulent, in taling any course most conducive to his own interest and not forbidden by law to regain possession
of the premises and to obviate the danger of a contest as to the validity
of the tax sale.
25 App. D. C. 182 reversed.

Tif

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William G. Johnson for appellants, Kann.
This court should not undertake to determine the question
of the validity of the tax title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

If the adjudication of its invalidity is essential to complainant's right to relief, that inquiry should never have been
entered upon, but the bill should, for that reason alone, have
been dismissed.
Admitting the right of the court in this proceeding to try
the validity of the tax title at the suit of the tenant would
result in this obvious anomaly, namely:
If the court found the tax title to be valid, which it must
be conceded it could do if it can adjudicate upon it at all,
instead of placing-the parties in statu quo, the essential purpose of the relief from forfeiture, the court would be compelled to complete the mischief originating in the tenant's
default and destroy the title of both lessor and lessee.
Mr. R. Ross Perry, with whom Mr. R. Ross Perry, Jr. and
Mr. E. S. Theall were on the brief, for appellant, Webb:
The pleadings and testimony do not establish such a case
as entitles the complainant to relief in a-court of equity against
an admitted forfeiture of a lease by breach of a covenant on
the part of the lessee (complainant) to pay all taxes accruing
during the demised term. Bowser v. Colby, 1 Hare, 109, 134;
Home v. Thompson, Sause & Scully's Rep.; Rolle v. Harris,
2 Price, 206 (220); White v. Warner, 2 Merivale, 459; Green
v. Bridges, 4 Simmons, 96; Reynolds v. Pitt, 19 Vesey, 134;
-Gregory v. Wilson, 9 Hare, 683; Nokes v. Gibbons, 26 L. J. Ch.
433; Job v. Bannister, 2 K. & J. 374.
All considerations applicable to a failure to insure apply
with augmented force to a failure to pay taxes. Fire does not
destroy title; a tax sale does.
.Prior to the passage of the conveyancing act, the law was
settled in England that save in cases of fraud, accident and
mistake, equity will not interfere when the measure of compensation is uncertain, save where the breach concerns a
covenant to pay rent. A breach of a collateral covenant does
not admit of a certain measure of compensation. A lessor
contracts in view of the law. His contract right to have a

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

collateral contract performed under penalty of forfeiture is
a right of property and cannot be taken from him, save by
process, of condemnation.
It has been explicitly decided that, where due payment of
taxes is one of the covenants of a lease, and the taxes are allowed to become delinquent by the lessee or his assigns, no
demand for their payment. by the lessor is necessary before
declaring a forfeiture, and that equity will not relieve against
the forfeiture of a lease for breach of covenant when the
breach has been culpable, long persisted in, and detrimental.
Bacon v. Park, 19 Utah, 46; Baldwin v. Reese, 6 Ohio Decisions,
(Reprint), 556. See also Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S. 436; Klein
v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 88; Thompson v. Insurance Co.,
104 U. S.252; Skinner v. Dayton, 2 Johns' Ch. 526; Baxter v.
Lansing, 7 Paige's Ch; Rep. 350; Dunklee v. Adams, 20 Verm6nt, 415; Ottawa Road Co. v. Murray, 15 Illinois, 336.
Such a breach of a covenant to pay taxes is not one that
can be compensated to a landlord. Hand v. Suravitz, 148
Pa. St. 202; Trinity Church v. Higgins, 48 N. Y. 532; Fry on
Specific Performance, ยง 41; Hill v. Barclay, 18 Ves. 63.
Where the tenant has covenanted to pay all accruing taxes
upon the demised prcmises, no duty rests upon the landlord,
as between the tenant and himself, to keep watch upon the
tenant's possible defaults and to avoid their consequences.
The true construction of the contract is that such taxes shall
be paid in the ordinary course of collection, and shall not
become in any way a burden on the lessor. Allen v. Dent,
72 Tennessee, 680. Such being the case, on no principle of
law can it be said to be the duty of the landlord in such a case
to anticipate the tenant's default, or to supervise him in the
discharge of his covenanted duty, or to remedy his breach of
covenant by positive action upon the lessor's own part and
at his own expense.
The lessor's conduct in herself paying the taxes and then
having the lessee refund them to her was at the most a gratuitous act of favor on her part, for which she received no con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

204 U. S.

sideration. It still remained the lessee's covenant duty to
herself in the first instance to pay these taxes when due to
the corporate authority. This line of conduct on the lessor's
part did not divest her of her right to at any time require the
lessee to literally perform her covenant.
Where the tenant has not only allowed the demised premises
to be sold for taxes, but has continued his breach until a tax
deed for the demised premises has issued to an assignee of the
-purenaser, the tenant cannot litigate the question of the
validity of that tax sale with the holder of the tax title at
the risk of the landlord. Bacon v. Park, 19 Utah, 46.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. Leon Tobriner for appellee:
The tax title is clearly invalid .and presents no obstacle to
relief. 28 Stat. 282; Williams v. Peyton, 4 Wheat. 77, 79;
Ronkendorif v. Taylor's Lessee, 4 Pet. 349, 359; Marx v. Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172, 180; Early v. Doe, 16 How. 617, 6i8;
Sargent v. Bean, 7 Gray, 125; Desmond v. Babbitt, 117 Massachusetts, 235; Milner v. Clarke, 61 Alabama, 258; Ex parte
Thacher, 3 Sneed, 344.
Even if valid, the circumstances attending its purchase,
and the purposes of its acquisition and for which it has been
attempted to be used, are such as to prevent its being allowed
to stand in the way of relief in a court of equity.
The bill makes no persons parties who are not interested
in each of the two questions it presents, namely, whether the
tax title is valid, and whether the forfeiture shall be relieved
against and the lease continued; and for this reason alone, as
well as for others stated, it is not multifarious. Gaines v.
Chew, 2 How. 619; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 411; Barney v.
Latham, 103 U. S. 214; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 432; Hoe v.
Wilson, 9 Wall. 501; McArthur v. Scott, 113 U. S. 391; California v. Southern Pac. Co., 157-U. S. 249.
The courts below did not exceed, their jurisdiction, either
in principle or under the great weight of authority, in holding
that breach of a covenant to pay taxes may be relieved against

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

in equity where there has been no tax sale, valid for any purpose, and where, therefore, the taxes may still be paid and
the status quo fully restored. Lundin v. Schaeffel, 167 Massachusetts, 465; Sanborne v. Wfoodman, 5 Cush. 36; Giles v.
Austin, 62 N. Y. 491; McTier v. Osborn, 146 Massachusetts,
499; Garner v. Hannah, 6 Duer, 273.
See, also, for additional cases in which relief was granted
against attempted forfeitures for forgetful or npgligent omission to pay taxes, Noyes v. Anderson, 124 N. Y. 175; McClartey v. Gokey, 31 Iowa, 506; to make repairs within the
time limited, Bargent v. Thompson, 4 Giff. 473; to improve by
the erection of a building, Hagan v. Beck, 44 Vermont, 286;
to maintain a gas supply pipe, South Bend Oil Co. v. Edgell,
86 Am. St. Rep. 43; omission to pay an incumbrance assumed,
Hancock v. Carleton, 6 Gray, 39; Koppcr v. Dyer, 59 Vermont,
477; Steel v. Branch, 40 California, 3, 11; covenants not to
assign until improvements are completed, Grigg v. Landis,
21 N. J. Eq. 494, 510-512.
Even if, under ordinary circumstances, the law were otherwise, as to the general power to relieve against forfeiti4re for
breach of such a covenant, the evidence warranted the court's
finding in fact that the default in the case at bar was largely,
if not principally, occasioned by the lessor's own inadvertence,
oversight or negligence, and its finding in law that a default,
.so occasioned, should not be taken advantage of for the sole
purpose, confessed. on the record, of getting rid of the unexpired term and of obtaining a higher rent.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

These appeals are from a decree of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, which adjudged that a tax-sale of
certain real estate in the District was void, and which relieved
.the lessee of the premises from a threatened forfeiture of the
lease, asserted to have resulted from the failure of the tenant
to pay the taxes to enforce which the tax-sale was made. The
c6mplainant in the original bill was Caroline King, the lessee

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of the premises, and the defendants were Marianne A. B. Kennedy (the lessor) and Louis Kann, Sigmund Kann and Myer
Cohen, whom it was alleged claimed to be either the equitable
or legal owners of the tax-title in question. The defendant
Kennedy died the day the bill was filed, and Henry Randall
Webb, as her executor, and Maria G. Dewey, as her heir at law,
were substituted as defendants.
The lessor prosecuted an appeal from an order granting an
injunction pendente lite, restraining him, among other things,
from prosecuting landlord and tenant proceedings, based upon
a right Qf reentry arising from the alleged forfeiture caused
by the non-payment of taxes and tax sale referred to in the bill.
The Court of Appeals on the face of the bill sustained the order
of injunction. 21 App. D. C. 141. The cause having been
ptit at issue by-separate answers asserting the right of the lessor
to forfeit and the right of the holders of the tax title was tried
on the merits and was decided in favor of the complainant. It
was taken to the Court of Appeals on behalf of all the defendants except Mrs. Dewey, and the decree of the lower court, adjudging the tax sale to be void and relieving from the alleged
forfeiture, was affirmed. 25 App. D. C. 182.
The origin of the controversy and the facts as to which there
are no dispute are as follows:
The property in controversy, 'No. 715 Market Space, in the
City of Washington, was owned by and assessed for taxation in
the name of Maria T. Gillis at the time of her death, intestate,
in 1871. Marianne A. B. Kennedy, as the heir at law of Mrs.
Gillis, took possession of the property as owner, without any
administration upon the estate of Mrs. Gillis. After the death
of Mrs. Gillis, continuously up to the making of the tax-sale
hereafter referred to, the property remained on the public
records and continued to be assessed in the name of Mrs. Gillis,
except that a small portion of the rear end of the premises was,
at a time not shown, but prior to the tax-sale before referred to,
assessed for taxation in the name of Mrs. Kennedy and her
husband.

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1890, Mrs. Kennedy leased in writing the premises to
Henry King, Jr., the husband of complainant, for use as a fancy
dry-goods store, and by several extensions the period of expiration of this lease came to be October 1, 1908. By the lease
the lessee, his executors and administrators or assigns, were
bound, "during the continuance and until the end and determination of the said term, for which the said premises are demised,
to, pay or cause to be paid in each and every year thereof the
taxes, general and special, of every character and description,
assessed against and levied upon the said premises by the authorities of the general or local government." The right to
terminate the lease and to reenter upon the breach of any of
the conditions was stipulated. When the lease was made King,
the lessee, was engaged in the dry-goods business in a store on
Seventh street, not far from the Market Space store. Under
the lease he entered into possession of the Market Space store
and carried on, in addition, business there until his death on
August 18, 1897. Sanctioned by an order of the Probate Court,
an assignment of the lease covering the store on Market Space
was made to Caroline King, the widow. The business was
thereafter conducted for a time solely in her name. She did
not, however, actively supervise it. Her elder son, Harry
King, who had been, during the latter years of his father's
life, in general charge of the business for his father, remained
in that capacity, after the death of the father, as the representative of his mother, assisted at the Market Space store, in a
subordinate capacity, by a brother, Joseph King, who, during
the father's life, had also, in a. subordinate capacity, been engaged in business at that place. From the making of the lease
in 1890 to the death of King in 1897 it was the habit of Mrs. Kennedy, when the tax on the Market Space store was about to become payable, to request the lessee to send her a check for the
amount of the tax, and on the receipt thereof the tax wvas paid
either by Mrs. Kennedy or her agent. This course was not,
however, followed, after the death of King. The first installment of taxes Which fell due in November, 1897, soon after the
voI.. CCIv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

death of King, was directly discharged by Mrs. King, who took
and retained the receipt. This was done at the request of
Mrs. Kennedy, who called at the Market Space store about
Christmas, 1897, and asked that the tax be paid. From that
time no request was made by the lessor to the tenant, as the
taxes fell due, to send her the money to enable her to pay them,
nor is it shown that any express demands were made that the
tenant pay the taxes directly. - From the time of the payment
by the tenant, near the close of 1897, of the first installment
of taxes which fell due after the death of her husband, until
the summer of 1900, a period of more than two and a-half
years, no taxes whatever were paid upon the leased premises.
In the interval the following taxes became overdue:
Second installment of tax for ,1898, due in May, 1898;
First installment of tax for 1899, due in November, 1898;
Second installment of tax for 1899, due in May, 1899;
First installment of tax for 1900, due in November, 1899;
and,
Second installment of tax for 1900, due in May, 1900.
On July 24, 1900, the two installments of the tax for 1900,
due in November, 1899, and May, 1900, with accrued penalties,
were paid by the tenant under 'the following circumstances:
As testified by Harry King, he being concerned over past due
taxes, owing on a large number of tracts of real estate owned
by the estate of his father, it "occurred " to him to have the
"bookkeeper go down to the tax office and inquire for the tax
bills of 7i5 Market Space." The bookkeeper went and subsequently reported that the two installments for 1900 were due,
and Harry King paid them. The nature of the inquiry made
by the bookkeeper at the tax office, and what occurred, is the
subject of controversy, and we pretermit its consideration.
Nearly a year after, in May, 1901, the two installments of taxes
for 1899, due in November, 1898, and May, 1899, with, interest
and penalties, along with the taxes for 1901, were paid by the
tenant. The payment of the 1899 taxes was by way of redemption of a sale of the property for such taxes made on April 12,

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1900. There is no doubt that the payment of the arrears for
1899 was a result of the visit by the bookkeeper to the tax office.
It will be observed that the payments which were made in 1900
and 1901, of taxes which were in arrears, did not embrace the
second installment of the tax of 1898, due in May, 1898. To
enforce that installment a sale had been made in April, 1899,
and a certificate was issued to the purchaser a few days thereafter, which was subject to a right of redemption during a
period of two years. " In other words, when the installments of
taxes which were in arrears were -paid on July 24, 1900, the
property had been sold for the last half of the tax of 1898, and
when the payment was made in 1901 of the arrears for 1899
the period for redemption' had elapsed.
On July 25, 1901, Mrs. King received a letter sent from
Rochester, New York, by one Wiltsi, stating that he had
bought the property in April, 1899, at a tax sale to enforce the
tax for the second half of the year 1898, and that he was entitled to a deed of the property, but would surrender the tax
certificate if immediate payment was made of the amount of
his, Wiltsie's, advance, viz., $143.9 , together with the statutory
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent, and a charge for releasing
to be agreed upon. Harry King replied to this letter on
July 30, 1901, and asked to be informed of the charge for redemption. Wiltsie answered on August 1, 1901, calculating
the statutory interest at $50.38, and naming $100 as his fee or
charge for releasing. To this letter reply was made that Harry
King was out of town, and that on his return the letter of Wiltsie would be laid before him. On September 17, 1901, Wiltsie
wrote King, and called attention to the fact that he had not
heard from him, and requested to be informed by return mail
when the matter would have attention. To this, King replied,
objecting to the charge of $100 for releasing, and stated that in
his opinion $50 would be an equitable charge. The letter concluded as follows:
"Unfortunately we have paid you quite a considerable
amount of money in the past for tax-sales. We are not in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

terested in this piece of property in any way except as tenant,
as we are not the owners or the mortgagees. If it should meet
with your approval send us a bill and we will send check."
It was replied on September 24, 1901, that if the matter was
attended to promptly $75 would be accepted for the release
certificate, and that the papers had been sent to the Central
National Bank of Washington where, on payment of $272.90,
they would be delivered up.
Neither Mrs. King nor her representatives, after learning in
July of the sale of the property and of the outstanding tax title,
gave any notice of that fact to the lessor, nor did they apparently concern themselves further about the matter, until the
purchase of the certificate from Wiltsie, as hereafter stated, by
Cohen, one of the defendants.
Both the Kann defendants carried on .business on Market
Space, having stores on each side of the property leased to King,
and the situation was therefore such that the possession of that
property was particularly advantageous to the Kanns. Indeed,
they had at some ,previous time stated to Webb, the attorney
of the lessor, that if they could obtain a long lease of the premises they would be willing to pay a rent much in advance of
that paid :by Mrs. King. Some time in September, 1901, one
Knight called upon the Kanns and informed them that the
property at 715 Market Space had been sold for taxes. They
referred him to Webb, the attorney of the lessor. Knight
called upon Webb, Said to him that Wiltsie had bought the
property at the tax sale, and solicited employment to set aside
the sale. Webb on the next day made inquiry, and discovered
the fact of the sale and the outstanding certificate and the lapse
of the period of redemption. He: informed the lessor of the
fact and of her right to forfeit the lease. Mrs. Kennedy, who
was advanced in age, beihg nearly eighty years old, was perturbed, and, in a letter to*Webb, expressed solicitude as to obtaining a new tenantiri case the lease of Mrs. King was forfeited.
As a result of the conferences and the correspondence between
Mrs. Kennedy and her counsel, the latter called on Cohen,

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

another defendant, who was the attorney of the Kanns, and desired to know whether the Kanns were yet willing to lease at an
increased rent, and was informed they were. Shortly after
Cohen advised the Kanns to purchase the Wiltsie tax-certificate,
and upon their giving him authority to use his discretion in the
matter he determined to go at once to Rochester to accomplish
that purpose. He communicated his in'tentions to Webb, who
endeavored to dissuade him. Cohen went to Rochester. The
papers which had been sent to Washington in consequence of
the correspondence between Wiltsie and King were returned to'
Rochester. Cohen bought the certificate, took an assignment
of the same in October, 1901, and, returning to Washington
procured a tax-deed for the property from the Commissioners
of the District, which was duly recorded. Thereafter Mrs. Kennedy notified Mrs. King of her intention to reenter because of
the forfeiture of the lease resulting from the sale of the property for the non-payment of taxes. Harry King then called at
the bank to take up the certificate, and found that it had been
returrind to Wiltsie. Negotiations ensued between Mrs. King
and Mrs. Kennedy, looking to a compromise of the matter,
and a letter was written by the counsel of Mrs. King to Mrs.
Kennedy, asking to be permitted to use her name in proceedings to be brought to cancel the tax-sale. This was declined.
At all times Mrs. King insisted upon her right to continue in
possession under the lease despite the default. The Kanns
notified Mrs. Kennedy that they were the real holders of the
tax-title, and would attempt to enforce their rights under it unless a lease of the property was made to them at the previously
suggested increased rental. The counsel of Mrs. Kennedy'
Webb, advised making such a lease. Placed between the
threatened assertion by the Kanns of the tax-title, unless they
obtained a lease, and the insistance of Mrs. King that she was
entitled to retain the property under her lease, Mrs. Kennedy
wavered. The result was a letter addressed by Webb, the
counsel for Mrs. Kennedy, to the counsel for Mrs. King, submitting a proposition of compromise, which was in substance

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

that Mrs. Kennedy would waive the forfeiture upon condition
that Mrs. King promptly commenced and prosecuted proceedings to have the tax-deed to Cohen declared a nullity or defend
against any claim under the tax title, and upon the further
condition that Mrs. King furnish a bond with sufficient surety
to pay the sum of seventy thousand dollars in the event that
the tax title was held to be valid. Counsel for Mrs. King in
writing declined this offer. The letter doing this made no
counter proposition, but referred to and did not expressly
withdraw the previous offer of Mrs. King, if she were allowed
the use of Mrs. Kennedy's name, to conduct proceedings to vacate the tax title. In addition the letter, which was quite
lengthy, expressly stated the opinion of the counsel of 'Mrs.
King to be that the tax title was void and could be set aside.
It insisted that Mrs. King would be relieved by a court, of equity
from the forfeiture alleged to have resulted from her inadvertent omission to pay the tax, and besides stated various grounds,
which, it was deemed, placed Mrs. Kennedy in a position where
she could not, as against Mrs. King, ask to be protected against
the risk, if any, of the outstanding tax-title held by the Kanns.
These grounds were, in substance, that the tax-certificate had
been bought by the Kanns at the instance of the counsel of
Mrs. Kennedy, for the purpose of making sure of a forfeiture of
Mrs. King's rights, and with the knowledge that negotiations
were pending between Mrs. King and Wiltsie, and for the purpose of forestalling the acquisition by Mrs. King of the taxcertificate.
The negotiations having failed, Mrs. Kennedy commenced
landlord and tenant proceedings to recover possession. Before
the time set for the trial of the proceedings Mrs. King commenced this suit, which, as we at the outset stated, sought to
have the tax-title declared void, to have complainant relieved
from the forfeiture, and for an injunction restraining the prosecution of a landlord and tenant proceeding.
That a court of equity, even in the absence of special circumstances of fraud, accident or mistake, may relieve against a

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

forfeiture incurred by the breach of a covenant to pay rent, on
the payment or tender of all arrears of rent and -interest by a
defaulting lessee, is elementary. Sheets v. Selden, 7 Wall. 416.
But that principle cannot control this case, even if it be conceded, for the sake of argument, that it applies to collateral
covenants in leases, such as the obligatipn to repair, to insure,
(and even to pay taxes), said in the Sheets case to be settled
in England adversely to such right, but to be an open question
in this country, and as to which there may be differences of
opinion in state courts of last resort. Noyes v. Anderson, 124
N. Y. 175; Giles v. Austin, 62 N. Y. 486, 491; Gordon v. Richardson, 185 Massachussetts, 492; Lundin v. Schaeffel, 167 Massachusetts, 465; Mactierv. Osborn, 146 Massachusetts, 399; Tibbetts v. Cate, 66 N. H. 550; Bacon v. Park, 19 Utah, 246. We
say this, because the general principle, as declared in the Sheets
case, rests upon the ground that "the rent is the object of the
parties, and the forfeiture only an incident intended to secure its
payment; that the measure of damages is fixed and certain, and
that when the principal and interest are paid the compensation
is complete." When the foundation upon which the doctrine is
based is borne in mind it becomes Apparent that it affords no
ground for the contention that it is applicable to a case where
the failure to perform a covenant to pay taxes has led to a taxsale, ripening into a prima facie irredeemable title held adversely to the lessor. In other words, the doctrine lends no
support to the proposition that a court pf equity can require
an owner to risk the loss of his property by compelling him to
engage in a contest involving the validity of an irredeemable
tax-sale, for the purpose of endowing the tenant with the right,
if the tax-title be held invalid, to pay the taxes and thus be relieved of a forfeiture. To extend the principle to such a degree
would be destructive of rights of property, since it would subject everyone who made a lease of his property, containing a
covenant by the lessee to pay taxes,to the hazard of the loss of
his title, if only the tenant chose to violate the covenant, and
thus give rise to the coming into existence of a tax4itle, prima

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

facie valid and irredeemable in character. And the force of
these considerations is not avoided by the reasoning which led
the court below to its conclusion or by the arguments at bar
advanced to support that conclusion.
Thus, the court, in its opinion, considering the paramount
issue to be the validity of the tax-sale, first disposed of that
question, and, concluding that the sale was void, proceeded to
determine its power to grant relief from the forfeiture, upon the
hypothesis that there never had been a tax-sale, that the taxes
were still clue, and could be paid, and that the tenant was willing to pay them. But thus to contemplate the controversy
was to assume the very question for decision, that is, the power
of a court of equity, in order to relieve from a forfeiture, to en(low a tenant with the right to create, at the risk of the owner,
a primary controversy, viz., to compel the owner against his
will to jeopardize his title by testing the validity of the irredeemable tax-sale, a hazard which the owner was desirous of
avoiding. The paramount issue was not, as assurhed, the invalidity of the tax-sale as a mere abstract question, but, we
repeat, was the right of the tenant to invoke at the hands of
the court a determination of that question at the risk of the
owner. And this view is not changed by saying that the decision at the instance of the tenant as to the validity of an irredeemable tax-title, held by a third person, was an incident to
the right of the tenant to be relieved from the forfeiture, for to
so say is but to destroy the foundation upon which the right to
relief from the forfeiture rested, that is, the ability of the tenant
when applying for relief to make complete compensation. And
the misconception of the general doctrine just pointed out pervades the argument at bar of the appellee. Thus while no
authority is referred to sustaining the right of a tenant to test
the validity of an outstanding prima facie irredeemable taxdeed, caused to exist by the default of the tenant, the ultimate
result of the contentions is to assume that principle as established and to predicate rights upon that hypothesis. In other
words, in substance, by a petitio principii, the propositions

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

urged treat the outstanding tax-title as void and proceeded to
demonstrate the right to relief under that assumption.
There being, then, no foundation for the contention that it
was within the ordinary power of a court of equity to relieve
from the forfeiture, we come to consider whether the case as
made by the record is brought within the general authority of a
court of equity to relieve in cases of fraud, accident or mistake.
We put out of view, for ulterior consideration, the question of
fraud, and therefore presently examine only the contentions
as to the existence of the elements of accident or mistake. In
considering this subject two propositions are obvious: First,
where the forfeiture from which relief is sought has been occasioned by the gross negligence of the person claiming to be
relieved, the default so occasioned is not one brought about by
accident or mistake; and, second, that even where accident or
mistake has been shown, especially in the absence of culpability
or fraud on the part of the other party, a court of equity will
not grant relief from the forfeiture, unless it can be done with
justice to that party.
Referring to its opinion on the appeal from the order granting
an injunction pendente lite, and in effect reiterating the view
therein expressed, that the averments of the bill justified the
relief prayed, the court iri its opinion on the final hearing said:
"But the testimony makes it more plain than even the allegations of the bill of complaint did that she is entitled to the relief
which she asks. The testimony shows quite conclusively that,
while the lease required the annual taxes on the property to
be paid by the lessee, yet the invariable custom of the lessor
down to the time of the default. had been to demand and receive
the amount of the taxes from the lessee, and to pay the taxes
herself by her own agents. For the taxes of the second half
of the year 1898, in connection with which the default occurred,
.the lessor failed for some reason to make the usual demand for
the money wherewith to pay the taxes; and the lessee was in the
midst of financial trouble and distress caused by the recent
death of her husband, who had been the lessee down to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. 1

time of his death. The record shows to us quite plainly that
the default of the lessee was excusable under the circumstances;
and that no harm wouhl be done to any one by her relief from
the nominal forfeiture which she has incurred."
By this reasoning it was assumed the case was brought
within the grounds of relief for accident or mistake upon two
inferences, both treated as alleged in the 'bill and established
by the testimony: first, the prior practice of the lessor in calling
upon the tenant to hand her the money to pay the taxes and
then herself paying them; and, second, the failure of the lessee,
after this practice was discoltilnued, to call to mind that the
tax was due and payable, owing to her disturbed state of mind
at that particular time. In the argument at bar reliance is
principally rested upon the first of these grounds, and indeed
it is insisted that the testimony goes much further than implied
by the court below, and demonstrates that the conduct of the
lessor was such as to mislead the lessee, and thereby estop the
former from asserting the forfeiture.
Let us consider separately the two grounds: First, accident
or mistake as engendered by the course of dealing of the lessor,
and, second, accident or mistake arising from oversight, the
alleged result of the particular circumstances surrounding the
tenant .at the time of the failure to pay the taxes. As to the
first ground it would seem to be an afterthought, Ainee it was
not suggested in the correspondence between the parties immediately preceding the litigation that Mrs. Kennedy by her conduct had in anywise led to the default of the tenant. To the
contrary, that view was excluded for in the letter written to
Mrs. Kennedy, dated October 8, 1901, asking authority to use
her name in proceedings to be brought by ,the tenant to cancel
the tax-sale, the attorneys of Mrs. King said:
"We assume that you are aware that your tenant has always
paid the taxes upon the demised premises, and the failure to
pay the one made the basis of the notice was an oversight,
caused by the death of Mr. Henry King, Jr., which was being
remedied at the time your notice was received."

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And although it would seem that the court below assumed
to the contrary, the fact is the bill contained no averment justifying the default in paying, upon the theory that it had been
induced by the conduct of the lessor. To the reverse it was
specifically stated in the fifth paragraph- of the bill that the
alleged single default in the payment of taxes arose--"wholly
through oversight and inadvertence," without in anywise
charging that the conduct of Mrs. Kennedy was in whole or
in part the cause of the oversight or inadvertence. Besides,
in the eleventh paragraph of the bill, explicit reference was
made to the letter to which we have just above referred, and it
was alleged that by its terms Mrs. Kennedy was notified "that
the failure to pay the taxes was simply an oversight, which
was being remedied at the time the notice of refusal to accept
the rent was received." True it is that the testimony shows
that prior to the death of Henry King, Jr., in August, 1897, the
lessor was in the habit of calling upon the tenant for the amount
required to pay the tax then due or about to become due,
in order that she might herself pay it. True also is it that
Harry King, in testifying, made statements from which the
inference can be deduced-that in conducting the business for
his mother, after the assignment of the lease subsequent to the
death of his father, he relied upon a continuance of this practice.
But it must be-borne in mind these statements were made after
the death of Mrs. IKennedy, who died on the day the bill was
filed, and their inaccuracy is, we think, conclusively shown by
the mode of dealing following the assignment of the lease and
the conduct of the tenant in respect to the matter of taxes.
The very first payment of taxes made after the death of Henry
King, Jr., was made by the tenant herself, paying the taxes at the
request of Mrs. Kennedy and retaining the receipt. Nearly
three years of default followed, without any payment of taxes
by the tenant whatever and without any inquiry being made by
the tenant bn the subject. When in July, 100, the two defaulting installments of the tax for 1900 were paid by the tenant
they were not paid at the instance of Mrs. Kennedy, or because

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of any request upon her part- but because it "occurred" to
the tenant to do so. When they were paid the payment embraced interest and penalties, for which the tenant could not
have deemed herself responsible if the course of dealing asserted
had been relied upon. Despite this fact, no proof whatever
was made of any notice to M1frs. Kennedy of the fact or of any
claim being made against her in the premises. And the same
thing is true as to the payments made in May, 1901, of the current taxes and some of the overdue installments. Besides,
when these, payments were made the property had been sold
for the overdue installments, but was yet subject to redemption,
and the statutory interest of fifteen per cent was paid by the
tenant without any intimation of a claim of any character
against the lessor. Indeed, the conduct of the tenant in respect
to the very tax for which a forfeiture was asserted is absolutely
inconsistent with the theory that she deemed that her landlord
was the cause of the default, for when notice was received by
the tenant from the purchaser at the tax-sale of the outstanding irredeemable tax-certificate more than two months and a
half elapsed before the purchase of the certificate by Cohen,
and no complaint was made to the landlord that she had neglected to demand payment of the tax, and that in consequence
the default and loss was occasioned, but a negotiation was
opened to purchase the outstanding title for the. account of the
tenant alone. When this line of conduct is considered in connection with the fact, already stated, the conclusion is inevitable that the suggestion that the conduct of the landlord had
induced the failure to pay, first made after the death of Mrs.
Kennedy, is without foundation.
And the facts which we have just stated also render it impossible to conclude that the non-payment of the tax was due
to a mere temporary oversight, and not to gross negligence.
How can an inference of temporary oversight-be possible when
the long period of the failure by the tenant to pay any tax
whatever is borne in mind, and when we also consider the delay
of more than two months and a half which took place after

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinioh of the Court.

knowledge was conveyed, by the letter of Wiltsie, of the outstanding irredeemable tax certificate?
The fact that the tenant was a merchant, and of necessity
kept mercantile books, is significant. The mind cannot conceive of adequate entries being made of the taxes, which were
belatedly paid, which would not have at once suggested those
which were unpaid. The inference fairly deducible from the
letter to Wiltsie-" Unfortunately we have paid you quite a
considerable amount of money in ihe past for tax sales "-adds
cogency to the irresistible inferences as to negligence.
And even if the foregoing considerations which establish the
absence of accident or mistake and demonstrate the presence of
gross negligence are put out of mind, and accident or mistake be
assumed, for.the sake of the argument nevertheless, under the
circumstances of the case, a court of equity could not give relief. This follows, since the relief sought could not be afforded
without subjecting the lessor to the peril of contesting the validity of the outstanding prima'Jacieirredeemable tax-title.
We come to the question which we hitherto put aside for
final consideration, viz., the alleged fraud. It, in any event,
only involves a consideration of what took place with regard
to the purchase of the tax-certificate by Cohen as the agent of
the Kanns, and the circumstahces surrounding and connected
with that purchase and the use made of the certificate. Concerning these matters the court below said:
"We find no evidence whatever in the record of any fraud or
wrongdoing perpetrated by anyone concerned. We only find
the evidence of a situation created by a keen commercial rivalry and shrewd management, wholly untainted by wrong-.
doing, but still a situation from which injury is threatened to
the cmploinant's rights of property, and against which she is
entitled to be relieved. For that there was an Arrangement between the defendants whereby the tax-certificate was to be used
to oust the complainant from the property, we think is too plain
to be reasonably questioned. There was undoubtedly a concurrence of effort for that purpose, perhaps no formal combina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

tion or preconcerted action. But it matters not what we call
it. The undoubted fact is.there was codperation between the
defendants to use the tax-certificate. to the detriment of the
complainant's rights; and there being such co6peration, the
defense of multifariousness cannot prevail. The one purpose
of the bill is to relieve the complainant from the effect of this
tax-certificate and of the tax-title based upon it."
For the reason that we agree with the finding that there is no
evidence whatever of any fraud or wrongdoing by anyone concerned, we are constrained to disagree with the conclusion that
the complainant was entitled to relief. We say this, because
we are of opinion that the relief awarded could only have been
justified upon the finding that there was fraud and wrongdoing.
We so conclude, because if it be accepted that there was an
agreement and combination as to the certificate, entirely free
from every element of fraud or wrongdoing, we fail to perceive
how an agreement of that character afforded ground for granting the relief which was given. But disregarding mere forms of
expression and assuming that the general finding that there
was no fraud or wrongdoing was intended to be limited to intentional as distinguished from constructive fraud or wrongdoing, let us briefly review the facts concerning the acquisition
and use made of the certificate, in order to fix whether such a
finding is at all sustained by the record. Although we think
it immaterial, as there was no evidence whatever tending to
show that the lessor or her attorney procured the purchase of
the certificate by Cohen, that subject may be put out of view.
The irredeemable tax-certificate was in the hands of and belonged to Wiltsie. He notified the tenant that he held it more
than two months and a half before the purchase by Cohen, and
proffered his willingness to assign it to the tenant. As shown
by the undisputed facts which we have stated, with indifference
both to her own interest and the interest of the landlord, the
tenant neither acted for herself by accepting the offer nor gave
any notification whatever to the landlord on the subject. Cohen, as the agent of the Kanns, learned of the existence of the

KANN v. KING.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

irredeemable tax-sale and of the person who held the certificate.
He purchased it by the authority of and for the benefit of his
principals, the Kanns. By the express terms of the statute
under which the certificate was issued it was assignable. Granting that the purchase was made in order to aid the Kanns in
obtaining a lease of the property, in the absence of any legal.
duty owing by them to the tenant, we fail to perceive how the
motive of Cohen or his l)rincipals could operate to make the
otherwise lawful action constructively wrongful. The tenant,
by whose negligent default the sale of the property had been
occasioned, certainly had no exclusive pre~mptive right to the
purchase of the certificate, which would operate to render its
purchase by anyone else in his Own interest void. After the
purchase of the certificate by Cohen, what was the position of
the landlord? On the one hand confronted by the assertion
of the tenant that the outstanding tax-title was void,' that she
had a right: to be relieved from the forfeiture caused by the
non-payment of the tax, and was entitled to continue in possession under the lease, and on the other with an offer on the part
of the holder of the tax-title to quitclaim the same, and thus
avoid testing its validity, if only a lease was made ,which would
be advantageous. When it is again borne in mind hat this
situation was brought about by the neglect of the tenant to
perform his covenant to pay the taxes, and by his procrastination in respect to acquiring the tax-certificate which had been
previously offered to him, we can conceive of no principle of
equity preventing the landlord from taking a course not forbidden by law which was not only most conducive to her owninterest, but which besides obviated the danger of submitting
her title to a contest concerning the validity of a tax-sale. But
if an equitable principle could be conceived of which prevented
the landlord from so acting under the circumstances stated,
that principle would be inapplicable to the case before us, when
one of the undisputed facts to which we have already called
attention is considered. That fact is this: Before the landlord
irrevocably determined to avail of the forfeiture and thus avoid

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

the risk to herself concerning the outstanding tax-title, she
offered to condone the forfeiture, provided the tenant com*menced proceedings to-have the outstanding tax-title declared
invalid, and also secured the landlord from loss in the event
that such tax title should be sustained, which offer was declined
on grounds substantially asserting that the risk resulting from
the default of the tenant should be borne by the owner and not
by the tenant.
The decree of the court below is reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill for want of equity.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissent.

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE- UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 72.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Royal Insurance Co. v. Martin, 192 U. S. 194, followed as to the jurisdiction of this court over appeals from the District Court of. the United States
for the District of Porto Rico.
The party causing the removal from the local court of Porto Rico to the
United States courts of a case, over which the latter would have had original
jurisdiction as to all parties impleaded had it been brought there originally,
cannot, after judgment against him, assert lack of jurisdiction of the
United States court solely on the ground that the removal was erroneous.
Under the law of community property in Porto Rico, the wife does not,
as a consequence of a judgment of divorce against her, forfeit her interest
in the community.
In liquidating the community the husband is not chargeable with an obligation to return to the community sums spent by him on the ground that
the expenditures were unreasonable or extravagant.
If there is any amount due a wife, against whom a judgment of divorce
has been rendered, on account of her interest in the community, she is

