COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 609
204 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

COMPUTING SCALE COMPANY OF AMERICA v. AUTOMATIC SCALE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 175. 'Argued January 25, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.
While a combination of old elements producing a new and useful result
may be patentable, if the combination is merely the assembling of old
elements producing no new and useful result, invention is not shown.
Where an inventor seeking a broad claim which is rejected, acquiesces in
the rejection and substitutes therefor a narrower claim, he cannot afterwards insist that the claim allowed shall be construed to cover that which
was previously rejected; and in this case the contention of the inventor
is not sustained that after striking out his broad claim he presented and
obtained another claim equally broad and is entitled to relief thereunder.
Complainant's patent for improvements in computing scales is of the narrow character of invention which does not, as a pioneer patent would,
entitle the patentee to any considerable range of equivalents; but it must
be limited to the means shown by the inventor, and in this case the defendant's construction does not amount to an infringement.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Mellville Church, with whom Mr. Joseph B. 'Church
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. P. Doolittle, with whom Mr. E. Hilton Jackson was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Appeals of the District
of Coluinbia, affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the
VOL. cciv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

District dismissing the bill of the Computing Scale Company
of America, appellant, against the Automatic Scale Company,
based upon the alleged infringement of letters patent No.
700,919, granted to the complainant as the assignee of the
inventor, Austin B. Hayden, said letters bearing date May 27,
1902, for an improvement in computing scales.
The bill contained a prayer for an injunction and accounting.
The answer denied the patentability of the alleged invention
of the plaintiff, set up the alleged anticipating invention of
one Christopher, and denied infringement.
The alleged improvement of Hayden is shown in the accompanying illustrations taken from the patent.
To understand these drawings they are to be viewed in the
light of the description of the mechanism given by complainant's expert, which has the approval of the expert of the defendant, and was accepted as correct in the Court of Appeals.
This description, somewhat abridged, is as follows:
"The two principal parts of the mechanism are as follows:
1st, a vertically arranged, non-rotating frame which comprises
and includes a vertical cylindrical casing which encloses,
conceals and protects the major portion of the operating
portions of the scale, and upon which are marked the price
indications which indicate the price per pound at which the
articles weighed are to be sold. As clearly shown in the drawings this external casing or frame is provided with a vertically
disposed sight opening through which the coacting mechanism
is observable, and along one vertical edge of this sight opening
are arranged the numerals indicating the price per pound.
"The second of these principal parts is a second cylinder
located within the casing, this cylinder constituting a computing cylinder or chart drum upon which are placed indications indicating the weight in pounds of the article weighed,
and also having other indications indicating the price of an
-,rticle weighfed corresponding to the weight and to the price
per pound. This chart drum or computing cylinder extends
vertically within the external casing and it is arranged to rotate

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 611
204 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

on a vertical axis within the external casing. This casing is
appropriately connected to the spring balancing mechanism
and to the scale pan so that when the spring balancing mechan-

ism moves up and down on the placing or removing of a load
on the scale pan, the chart drum will be rotated in one direction
or the other within the .external casing or frame.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"As shown in Fig. 2, the weight and value indicating figures
are placed in horizontal rows on the external surface or periphery of the rotatable chart drum of the computing cylinder,
the weight indications being shown in a horizontal row at the

2y2.

bottom, and the price indications in horizontal rows above,
there being as many of these horizontal rows of price indicating figures as there are 'price per pound' indicating figures on
the fixed external casing. These value indicating figures on

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO.-613
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court:

the chart drum are computed at different rates corresponding
to the 'price per pound' figures on the external casing. As
indicated in Figure 2 of the drawings of the patent, there is
supposed to be a weight on the scale pan of five pounds, this
weight being indicated on the weight scale, and it will be seen
that in such instance the various value indications on the
chart drum opposite the 'price per pound' indications on the
fixed casing, are in each illustrated instance, five times as great
as the corresponding 'price per pound' indications. The
drawings illustrate only a portion of the indicating figures on
the chart drum, but it will be understood in practice that this
drum will be entirely covered on its external surface with
figures corresponding to the weights multiplied by the figures
indicating 'price per pound' on the non-rotatable external
casing. Accordingly whenever the interior chart drum is
turned a distance corresponding to the load placed. on the scale
pan, the value of the load can be read at once opposite the
figures on the external casing which correspond to the price per
pound of the article weighed.
"The various price indications on the chart drum are visible
through the sight opening in the external casing.
"The mechanism whereby the chart drum is rotated a distance corresponding to the weight of the load placed on the
scale pan is as follows: The balancing mechanism is a spring
balance comprising two springs 'which are suspended from a
suitable portion of the non-rotating frame of the scale. To
the lower ends of these springs is attached a cross-bar in the
middle of which depends a rod, this cross-bar and rod constituting the runner of the scale. (See 'Fig. 3.) The scale
pan is suspended from the lower end of this rod as illustrated
in Figure 1. When a load is placed on the scale pan the vertical
rurmer moves vertically downward distending the spring to
4n extent proportional to the weight of the load. In order
to indicate the weight this vertical movement of the springsupported runner is converted or translated into a rotary
movement of the chart drum by suitable intervening mechan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S,

ism. 'This intervening mechanism consists of a spiral groove
of high pitch on the vertical rod .and two rollers journaled in
suitable bearings carried by the rotable chart drum, the bearings of one of these rollers being spring pressed so that the
rollers are held in yielding contact with the spiral groove on
the rod. Consequently as the rod moves vertically the spiral
.groove thereof causes the chart drum or computing cylinder
to rotate on its vertical axis.
"Accordingly, the mechanism is such that the vertical
movement of the runner is translated into rotary movement
of the chart drum and the chart drum is r.otated to an extent
proportional to-the vertical movement of the runner."
In his application, Hayden, having set forth a descriptjpn
of his invention, disclaiming any intention to limit his invention by the precise description of the specifications, except as
appears from his claims, sets forth eleven (11) claims, which
he alleges as new and desires to secure by letters patent.
The claims alleged to be infringed in this case are numbered
1, 2, 6, 7 and 8. Numbers 1 and 2 are practically alike,
except that in No. 2 the spring-supported, load-bearing and
cylifider-revolving rod is described as non-rotatably suspended.
Claims 6, 7 and 8 have some trifling variations, but, in the view
we take of this case, they are sufficiently embodied in claim
No. 6. We shall, therefore, consider, in arriving at a decision,
claims 1 and 6. They are as follows:
"1. In a spring-balance computing-scale, the combination
of a suitably-supported vertical non-rotatable casing provided
with a price-index, a vertical rotatable computing-cylinder
journaled in said casing, provided with cost computations,'a
spring-supported load-bearing and cylinder-revolving rod
suspended from said casing and connecting means between
rod and computing-cylinder, whereby, by longitudinal move-'
ment of the rod rotary movement is imparted to said cylinder,
substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"6. In a spring-balance, the eombination of a non-rotating
frame providing an external casing and having means for sup-

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 615
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

porting it from above, weighing-springs secured at their upper
ends to rigid parts of said frame, a vertically-movable runner
which is suspended from the lower ends of said springs and is
provided with depending means to support the load, a chartdrum rotatably mounted within said casing on a vertical axis
and having external horizontal rows- of value-indicating figures
computed at different rates, said casing having a sight-opening
through which portions of said value-indicating rows may be
seen, and corresponding rate-indicating figures on the outer
face of said frame adjacent to. the value-indicating rows on
the chart drum, and mechanism for translating the vertical
movement of the runner into the rotary movements of the
charft-drum."
Hayden did not assume to be a pioneer in this field of invention, but he claims to have made an improvement in computing scales of the spring-balance type, and states his object
to be specially,to increase the computing capacity of scales
of that type.
. An examination of the record discloses that computing scales
have, been the subject of prior inventions and were well known
at the time of Hayden's application. it is true that the scales
disclosed in the prior art were generally those having a horizontal axis, case and cylinder, although it was not .new to
arrange a scale vertically.
If we are to read the claims as broadly as is contended for
'and omit for the present vertical construction shown by Hayden, we shall find'in the patent of Phinney, No. 106,869, of
August 30, 1870, a computing scale having the general elements
of a non-rotatable casing, provided with a price-index and
rotatable cylinder journaled in the case and having computations thereon, a suspended, spring-supported, load-bearing,
and cylinder-revolving rod) and connecting means between
the rod and computing cylinder, to impart rotary motion to
the inner cylinder. This is perhaps more emphatically true
in the invention of Smith, patent No. 545,619, of September 3,
1895.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

In the patent of Babcock, No. 421,805, February 18, 1890,
a vertical construction is shown. It is true that Babcock's
invention was not automatic in its operation, and required
the intervention of the operator to complete the required process, but it serves to show that the idea of vertical construction
was not new when Hayden entered the field. Taking the
state of the art at that time, it is evident that there is little
room to claim a broad construction of Hayden's improvement.
It is well settled by numerous decisions of this court that while
a combination of old elements producing a new and useful
result will be patentable, yet where the combination is merely
the assembling of old elements producing no new and useful
result, invention is not shown. Specialty Manufacturing Co.
v. Fenton Metallic Manufacturing Co., 174 U. S. 492-498, and
previous decisions of this court there cited.
It is true that many valuable inventions seem simple when
accomplished, and yet are entitled to protection. The books
abound in cases showing inventions involving only small departure from former means, yet making the difference between
a defective mechanism and a practical method of accomplishing results. In such cases a decision in favor of invention as
distinguished from mere mechanical improvement has not
infrequently resulted, in view of the fact. that the device has
made the difference between an impracticable machine and a
useful improvement displacing others .theretofore occupying
the field. Krementz v. The S. Cottle Co., 148 U. S. 556; Consolidated Brake Shoe Co. v. Detroit Steel & Spring Co., 47 Fed.
Rep. 894; Star Brass Works v. General Electric Co., 111 Fed.
Rep. 398.
In the present case it nowhere appears in the testimony, nor
is it claimed in the specifications of Hayden's patent, that the
prior mechanisms of horizontal construction were impracticable
or inefficient. There is no suggestion that Hayden's invention
has been the last step between an inoperative machine and
one practically operative and useful. There is. no showing
that it has been generally accepted in the trade and displaced

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 617
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the former machines used for the same purpose. Without
resort to the record in the Patent Office, we think it is plain
that the invention is but a small advance upon others already
in use.
Broadly considered, the elements of Hayden's invention
were in the horizontal machines, and the idea of vertical
construction was old. Considering this invention in the light
of what occurred in the Patent Office in connection with the
other considerations already referred to, and the state of the art
at the time, we think Hayden's invention can only be sustained
to a limited extent.
Before taking up the record as disclosed in the file wrapper
and contents we may premise that it is perfectly well settled
in this court by frequent decisions that where an inventor,
seeking a broad claim which is rejected, in which rejection he
acquiesces, substitutes therefor a narrower claim, he cannot
be heard to insist that the construction of the claim allowed
shall cover that which has been previously rejected. Corbin
Cabinet Lock Co. v: Eagle Lock Co., 150 U. S. 38-40, and-cases
there cited.
A late statement of the rule, and one as favorable to the
inventor as the previous cases would admit, is found in Hubbell
v. United States, 179 U. S. 77, 80, as follows:
"An examination of the history of the appellant's claim, as
disclosed in the file wrapper and contents, shows that, in order
to get his patent, he was compelled to accept one with a narrower claim than that contained in his original application;
and it is well settled that the claim as allowed must be read
and interpreted with reference to the rejected claim, and to
the prior state of the art, and cannot be so construed as to
cover either what was rejected by the Patent Office or disclosed by prior devices. Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256;
Shepard v. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593; Knapp v. Morss, 150 U. S.
221, 227.

"It is quite true that where the differences between the
claim as made and as allowed consist of the mere changes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

expression, having substantially the same meaning, such
changes, made to meet the views of the examiners, ought not
to be permitted to defeat a meritorious claimant. While not
allowed to revive a rejected claim by a broad construction of
the claim allowed, yet the patentee is entitled to a fair construction of the terms of his claim as actually granted."
Looking to the record in the Patent Office, we find that
claim 1, as originally presented, read as follows:
"1. In a spring-balance computing scale, the combination
of a suitably supported vertical non-rotatable casing provided
with a price-index, a vertical rotatable computing-cylinder
journaed in said. casing, provided with cost computations, a
spring-supported load-pan supported from said casing, and
means connected with said pan and cylinder for rotating the
cylinder as the pan is lowered under pressure, substantially
as and for the purpose set forth."
The examiner rejected this claim upon the patent of Smith,
No. 545,616, price scales, and in view of the patent of Turnbull,.
No. 378,382, spring scales, saying, "It would not involve invention to arrange upon Turnbull's scales a vertical stationary
casing having

.within.

it a revolvable computing chart, the

axis being connected .with the index-carrying shaft P shown
in the Turnbull patent."
To this the applicant, through his attorneys, replied:
"The first portion of the examiner's letter is not understood,
as there are no modifications referred to in lines 6 to 26 .of page
3. A reconsideration of the claims is requested, for the reason
that it is believed that the references cited do not anticipate
any of the claims., In both of the references cited a rack-bar
extending transversely of the centre of rotation of the computing chart serves, by means of engagement with a pinion at
the axis of the computing chart, to rotate the latter. Thig
is entirely different from applicant's construction, and it is not
seen that the references are pertinent to the issue. Certainly,
the references neither singly nor taken together anticipate
the structure set forth in the claims,,nd there can hardly-be

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 619
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court:

any question that the construction which applicant shows is a
substantial improvement in the art. It is hoped that all the
claims may be allowed."
But the examiner again rejected claims 1, 8 and 9 upon the
references of record, and held that it would not involve invention to arrange upon the vertical shaft of Turnbull's scale
a computing chart and enclosing case having the characteristics of Smith's scale. To this the attorneys for applicant
answered:
"These claims are cancelled, not because considered unallowable, but because it is not desired to prosecute an appeal, in
view of the fact that the allowed claims appear to cover the
invention as it would be constructed in practice. The cancellation is made, therefore, without prejudice to the claims
which remain."
The sixth claim was allowed upon the suggestion of the examiner, as follows:
"In a spring balance, the combination of a non-rotating
frame providing an external casing and having means for supporting it from above, weighing springs secured at their upper
ends to rigid parts of said frame, a vertically movable runner
which is suspended from the lowerends of said springs and is
provided with means to support the load, a chart drum rotatably mounted within said casing on a vertical axis and having
external horizontal rows of value indicating figures computed
at different rates, said casing having a sight opening through
which portions of said value indicating rows may be seen,
and corresponding rate indicating figures on the outer face of
said frame adjacent to the value indicating rows on the chart
drum and mechanism for translating the vertical movement
of the runner into the rotary movements of the chart drum."
It was afterwards stated by the examiner:"Upon consideration of claim 6 preparatory to the declaration of interference it is found that the claim does not clearly
and patentably distinguish from the scale shown in the patent
to Herr, No. 651,801, June 12, 1900, Price Scales, and it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

therefore necessary to reject the claim. It is believed, how-,
ever, that the claim may be rendered allowable by inserting
depending before 'means' in line 6"" and, accordingly, the
word "depending" was inserted in the claim, so as to make
it in its present form. How this added anything to the
patentability of the mechanism described it is difficult to
perceive, in view of the presence of "depending means to.
support the load" in all scales of this class.
The general rule, as stated, as to the effect of a patentee
striking out a broad claim and accepting a narrow one, is
conceded by the learned counsel for appellant, but it is contended that if an inventor presents a broad claim and strikes
it out and then presents and obtains an equally broad.claim,
he loses no right by such. action, and may justly claim his
allowed claim to be a broad one and have relief accordingly.
But we think the action of the department in this .case cannot
be thus eliminated. Claim 1, as presented, had contained
the words "a spring-supported load-pan supported from said
casing, and means connected with said pan and cylinder for'
rotating the cylinder as the pan is lowered under pressure,
and as allowed there was inserted "a spring-supported loadbearing and cylinder-revolving rod suspended from said casing,
and connecting means between rod and computing cylinder,
whereby longitudinal, movement of the rod rotary movement
is imparted to said cylinder, substantially as and for the purpose
set forth." This limitation to specific means is certainly a
narrowing of the claim.
It was accepted, as the patentee said,"in view of the fact
that the allowed claims appear to cover the invention as it
would be constructedin practice."
We cannot think it was the intention of the department,
after requiring the insertion of "a spring-supported load-bearing and cylinder-revolving rod" and "connecting. means
between rod and computing cylinder" io secure the rotary
movement of the inner cylinder as a means of saving claim 1,
to then permit the claim to be granted broadly in allowing other

COMPUTING SCALE CO. v. AUTOMATIC SCALE CO. 621
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claims. And we believe it would be a more reasonable construction of the letter of the applicant to say that he.recognized
that his invention, "as constructed in practice," must have
read into it to sustain the claim, the specific means shown for
translating the vertical movement of- the runner into the
rotary movement of the chart-drum, rather than as saving
a right to construe a claim broadly as including in one claim
what had just been refused in another.
It is to ,be noted that Hayden, in his specifications, says:
"The spiral rod passing through the lower ends of the casing
and serving, by means of its connection with the two cylinders, to rotate the computing cylinder is regarded as the
essence of this feature of the invention,
however, regardless
of the precise details of connection betveen cylinders and
rod."
In view of the action of the Patent Office in this case and the
acquiescence of the applicant, considered also in view of the
state of the art, in our opinion it is necessary to have this novel
element of the invention read into them in order to save the
claims of Hayden's patent.
Conceding that this spiral rod and its connections with the
cylinder in the manner and for the purposes stated is a novel
feature in the combination and entitled to protection, it is of
that narrow character of invention which does not entitle the
patentee to any considerable range of equivalents, but must
be practically limited to the, means shown by the inventor.
The distinction between pioneer inventions permitting a wide
range of quivalents and those inventions of a narrow character,
which are limited to the construction shown, has been frequently emphasized in the decisions of this court. Cimiotti
Unhairing Co. v. American Fur Refining Co., 198 U. S. 399,
406, and cases therein cited.
Thus limiting the invention, we do not think the construction of the defendant amounts to an infringement. Its mechanism, by means of which the downward movement of the load
accomplishes the rotary movement of the cylinder, consists

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of a bar which has a rod extended upward and carrying a rack
which meshes with a pinion on a shaft journaIed in bearings
on a cross bar of the frame of the machine. On this shaft is a
gear meshing with the pinion, secured to an upright shaft
journaled in bearings in the frame, and projecting above it so
as to receive a light frame composed of cross arms and a circular
rim to which the chart drum is secured. The downward movement of the load-supporting hook causes the rack to move in
the same direction, rotating the horizontal shaft by means of
the pinion, and this movement is communicated by means
of the gearing to the upright shaft carrying the chart drum.
The cylinder-revolving rod with its connections,- which, as
we have seen, was made an essential element to accomplish
invention in Hayden's device, is not found. The complainant's
expert is of opinion that it is shown in the hook at the bottom
of defendant's scale for holding the load pan. We cannot agree
to this conclusion; the hook is not the cylinder-revolving spiral
rod and does not accomplish its function.
The Court of Appeals held the sixth claim void. We are of
opinion that it cannot be allowed for the broad claim "mechanism for translating the vertical movement of the runner'
into the rotary movement of the chart drum," but must be
limited to Hayden's suspended rod with its spiral, engaging
with the rollers, or similar devices on the cylinder, practically
in the manner and for the purposes shown by him. If the
claim be thus limited, for the reasons we have already stated,
the mechanism of the defendant does not infringe.
We find no error in the decree rendered by the Court of
Appeals, and it is
Affirmed.

