OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

WILSON v. SHAW, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
APPEAL FROt THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 43.

Argued October 19, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Where the bill is solely to restrain the Secretary of. the Treasury from paying specific sums to a specific party this court may take judicial notice
of the fact that such payments have actually been made and in that
event whether rightfully made or not is a moot question.
While the courts may protect a citizen against-wrongful acts of the Government affecting him or his property, the remedy is not necessarily
by injunction, suit for which is an equitable proceeding, in which the
interests of the defendant as well as those of the plaintiff will be considered.
Subsequent ratification is equivalent to original authority; and where
Congress authorizes the acquisition of territory in a specific manner
from a specific party, and it is otherwise acquired, the subsequent action
of Congress in enacting laws for the acquired territory amounts to a full
ratification of the acquisition, and the action of the Executive in regard
thereto; and the concurrent action of Congress and the Executive in this
respect is conclusive upon the courts.
The courts have no supervising control over the political branch of the
Government in its action within the limits of the Constitution.
The title of the United States to the Canal Zone in Panama is not imperfect either because tile treaty with Panama does not contain technical
terms used in ordinary conveyances of real estate or because the boundaries are not sufficient for identification, the ceded territory having been
practically identified by the concurrent action of the two interested
nations. "
Under the commerce clause of the Constitution, Congress has power to
create interstate highways, including canals, and also those wholly within
the Territories and outside of state lines.
The previous declarations of this court upholding the power of Congress to
construct interstate or territorial highways are not obiter dicta; and to
announce a different doctrine would amount to overruling decisions on
which rest a vast volume of rights and in reliance on which Congress has
acted in many ways.
25 App. D. C. 510, affirmed.
IN a general way it may be said that this is a suit brought
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by the appellant, alleging himself to be a citizen of Illinois and the
owner of property subject to taxation by the United States,

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U. S.

Argument t'or Appellant.

to restrain the Secretary of the Treasury from paying out
money in the purchase of property for the construction of a
canal at Panama, from borrowing money on the credit of the
United States, from issuing bonds or making any payments
under the act of Congress, June 28, 1902, 32 Stat. 481, providing for the acquisition of property and rights- from Colombia
and the canal company and the construction and operation
of the canal and the Panama Railroad. The Republic of
Panama and the New Panama Canal Company of France
were named parties defendant, but they were not served with
process and made no appearance. A demurrer to the bill
was sustained, and the bill dismissed. This decree was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals, from whose decision this appeal was
taken.
Mr. Warren B. Wilson, appellant, pro se:
The doctrine is fully established that in proper cases, compulsory process, both mandamus and injunction, may be issued
by the courts at the suit of private persons interested, to require such officials to do or refrain from doing, in their official
capacity, things which the court can see it is their positive legal
duty to do or not to do. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cr. 137; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378; United States v. Black, 128 U. S.40; United States v.
Bayard, 4 Mackey, 312; Noble v. U. R. L. R. R. Co., 147 U. S.
165.
That a bill to restrain an unlawful. disbursement of public
funds or issue of public obligations is a proper case, and a private citizen has the necessary special interest to enable him to
sustain such a bill as the present, is also clear. Crampton v.
Zabriskie, 101 U. S.601; Dillon on Mun. Corp., §§ 914-923;
Louisiana Board v. McComb, 92 U. S.531; Rippe v. Becker, 56
Minnesota, 100; Pennoyer v. McConnaugh, 140 U. S.1; Burke v.
Snively, 208 Illinois, 320; The Liberty Bell, 23 Fed. Rep. 831.
The suit is not a suit against the United States.
The cases already cited and the practically uniform course

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

of authority, establish that suits of this character to restrain
public officials from misapplying public money are not open to
this or any other objection. The State, or the United States,
as the case may be, has an interest in the question whether
the funds in the treasury shall be preserved for lawful uses or
wasted in unlawful uses, and in a similar case a private corporation would be made defendant.
But the legal impossibility of making the State or United
States a party in such cases does away with the necessity and a
decree may be had against the official. Osborn v. Bank of U. S.,
9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 331; Allen v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 114 U. S.311; Virginia Coupon cases, 114 U. S. 269; United States v. Lee, 106
U. S.196, 212-215; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204.
The thing sought to be prevented here is exactly of the kind
that has been constantly controlled, namely, an unlawful
expenditure of the public money, and issue of public bonds not
in exercising administrative discretion, and not in government
at all, but in an unauthorized business venture. A case involving that question is one of private right, as to which the
courts should and do give judgment, and not a political one,
upon .which they do not pass. Crampton v. Zabriskie, 101
U. S. 601; Dillon on Mun. Corp., §§ 914-924; Rippe v. Becker,
56 Minnesota, 100; Burke v. Snively, 208 Illinois, 328.
The treaty with Panama is not a performance of the conditions of the act of Congress because: Whatever has been acquired has not been acquired in the way required by the statute,
i.e., not by treaty from Colombia. And the things required
to be acquired by treaty from Colombia have not been acquired
at all, either from Colombia or Panama. It is not a compliance,
because what was acquired was not acquired by treaty from
Colombia. The statute in terms, requires the property and
rights described to be obtained by treaty from the Republic of
Colombia; and in that event, the other conditions being met,
purports to authorize a payment to the Republic of Colombia.
It is not a compliance with the terms used, that these rights

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

and privileges shall have been obtained by force from the Republic of Colombia, or by treaty or otherwise from anyone else;
nor does this act in terms authorize under any conditions the
payment of any money to the Republic of Panama.
The treaty with Panama is not a compliance with the conditions precedent set out in the act, because the things required
to be acquired from Colombia have not been acquired at all
from Colombia or Panama. The boundaries of the strip supposed to be conveyed by the treaty with Panama, are not defined in that treaty, nor are any means afforded by which they
can be defined. The grant is, therefore, void for uncertainty.
This condition precedent has, further, not been complied
with, because the President has not acquired, for and on behalf of the United States the perpetual control of a strip of
land six miles wide, including jurisdiction to make police and
sanitary laws, and establish judicial tribunals to enforce them.
Congress has under the Constitution no authority to -employ
the public funds arising from all sources, including taxes, imposts and duties, laid and collected, money borrowed on the
credit of the United-States, and the proceeds of the disposition
of the territory and other property of the United States, in
making or buying and operating commercial canals and railroads and conducting like enterprises, in foreign countries.
This measure can derive no support from the power to regulate commerce among the several States, with foreign States
and with the Indian tribes.
The power is to regulate, not to carry on, commerce. The
power to regulate commerce is the power to prescribe the rule
according to which it shall be carried on or governed. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Cooley v. Port Wardens, 12 How.
299; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 279; Tiernan v. Rinker, 102
U. S. 123; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; E. C. Knight
Co. v. United States, 156 U. S. 1; Addyston Pipe &c. Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211; Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

204 U. S.

The power is to regulate not to carry on commerce, and the
power to carry on commerce cannot be implied from the power
to regulate it.
The term "implied powers" in general use, is unfortunate and
inaccurate. The better term is that used in Gibbons v. Ogden,
"included," or "comprehended powers."
A grant of powers to do one thing implies no power to do
anything else. It includes a full choice of means, but the
thing proposed to be done must always be the particular thing
authorized; thus, navigation is commerce. Consequently Congress may regulate navigation, "because in regulating navigation, it is regulating commerce." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The measure can derive no support from the power to establish postoffices and post-roads. It is not even attempted by
this statute to establish this canal as a post-road. The general
statute, making all canals post-roads while the mail is carried
on them, means all canals in the United States.
The measure can derive no support from the power to declare war, which, as construed in McCullough v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 407 and Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, means
the power to declare and carry on war. That means the -whole
power of the United States-both the power of the President
and Congress.
The power is to carry on war, not to carry on commerce.
This is commerce; transportation is commerce. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Joint Traffic Assn. v. United States, 171
U. S. 515.
The measure can derive no support from the provision that
"Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Russell, Mr. Glenn E. Husted
and The Solicitor General for appellee:
Complainant is without right to sue.
There is no averment that he pays to the United States any

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

taxes whatever. But if he is a taxpayer. he is not entitled to
bring such a suit unless he shows some direct and special injury
to himself above that suffered by others. Grant v. Cooke, 7
D. C Rep. 166; State v. Thorson (S. D.), 33 L. R. A. 584; 1
Beach, Mod. Eq. Juris., §§ 641, 642; 1 High on Injunction, § 9;
Georgetown v. Alex. Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91, 99.
The payments sought to be enjoined having been made and
thirty million dollars in bonds issued, of which the court will
take judicial notice, this attempt to restrain payment is largely
a moot question, which the court will not consider. Mills v.
Green, 159 U. S. 651; Am. Book Co. v. Kansas, 193 U. S.49, 52;
Cheong A Moy v. United States, 113 U. S. 216.
.Title to the canal strip having been acquired, this suit in
effect seeks to restrain the Government from improving its
property. The United States is therefore a necessary party.
It has not consented to be sued and cannot be sued without
its consent. Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S.10; InternationalSupply Company v. Bruce, 194 U. S.601; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202
U. S. 60.
That this court will not attempt to enjoin the enforcement
by the Executive of a statute simply because it is alleged to be
unconstitutional is too well established to call for argument.
Mississippiv. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Sutherland v. The Governor,
29 Michigan, 320, 329; Georgiav. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50; Decaturv.
Spaulding, 14 Pet. 497, 515.
The treaty with the Republic of Panama complies with the
Spooner Act, if such compliance is necessary. This court has
frequently affirmed the principle that statutes should be given
a reasonable construction and application. United States v.
Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486-487; Blake v. National'Bank, 23 Wall.
309, 320; Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S.47, 59; In re
Chapman, 166 U. S.661, 667; Bate Rel. Co. v. Sulzberger, 157
U. S.1, 37; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30, 34; Knowlton v.Moore, 178 U. S.41, 77; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Baird,
194 U. S. 38.
Th6 Spooner Act, the treaty with Panama, and the construe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court

tion of the canal are not unconstitutional.

204 U. S.

Monongahela Nay.

Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 334; California v. Central
Pac. Co., 127 U. S. 1; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S.
525, 530; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
If the bill was only to restrain the Secretary of the
Treasury from paying the specific sums named tJherein, to wit,
$40,000,000, to the Panama Canal Company, and $10,000,000
to the Republic of Panama, it would be sufficient to. note the
fact, of which we may take judicial ihotice, that those payments
have been made and that whether they were rightfully made or
not is, so far as this suit is concerned, a moot question. Cheong
Ah Moy v. United States, 113 U. S. 216; Mills v. Green, 159
U. S..651; American.Book Company v. Kansas, 193 U. S. 49;
Jones v. Montague, 194 U. S. 147.
But the bill goes further and seeks to restrain the Secretary
from paying out money for the construction of the canal,
from borrowing money for that purpose and issuing bonds
of the United States therefor. In other words, the plaintiff
invokes the aid of the courts to stop the Government of the
United States from carrying into execution its declared purpose of constructing the Panama Canal. The magnitude of
the plaintiff's demand is somewhat startling. The construetion of a canal between the Atlantic and Pacific somewhere
across the narrow strip of land which unites the two continents
of America has engaged the attention not only of the United
States but of other countries for many years. Two routes,
the Nicaragua and the Panama, have been the special objects
of consideration. A company chartered under the laws of
France undertook the construction of a canal at Panama.
This was done under the superintendence and guidance of the
famous Ferdinand de Lesseps, to whom the world owes the
Suez Canal. To tell the story of all that was done in respect

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the construction of this canal, prior to the active intervention of the United States, would take volumes. It is
enough to say that the efforts of De Lesseps failed. Since
then Panama has seceded from the Republic of Colombia
and established a new republic which has been recognized by
other nations. This new republic has by treaty granted to the
United States rights, territorial and otherwise. Acts of Congress have been passed providing for the construction of a
canal, and in many ways the executive and legislative departments of the Government have committed the United States
to this work, and it is now progressing. For the courts to
interfere and at the instance of a citizen, who does not disclose
the amount of his interest, stay the work of construction by
stopping the payment of money from the Treasury of the
United States therefor, would be an exercise of judicial power
which, to say the least, is novel and extraordinary.
Many objections may be raised to the bill. Among them
are these: Does plaintiff show sufficient pecuniary interest in
the subject matter? Is not the suit. really one against the
Government, which has not consented to be sued? Is it any
more than an appeal to the courts for the exercise of governmental powers which belong exclusively to Congress? We do
not stop to consider these or ldndred objections; yet, passing
them in silence must not be taken as even an implied ruling
against their sufficiency. We prefer to rest our decision on
the general scope of the bill.
Clearly there is no merit in plaintiff's contentions. That,
generally speaking, a citizen may be protected against wrongful
acts of the Government affecting him or his property may be
conceded. That his remedy is by injunction does not follow.
A suit for an injunction is an equitable proceeding, and the
interests of the defendant are to be considered as well as
those of the plaintiff. Ordinarily it will not be granted when
there is adequate protection at law.' In the case at bar it is
clear not only that plaintiff is not entitled to an injunction,
but also that" he presents no ground for any relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

He contends that whatever title the Government has was
not acquired as provided in the act of June 28, 1902, by treaty
with the Republic of Colombia. A short but sufficient answer
is that subsequent. ratification is equivalent to original authority. The title to what may be called the. Isthmian or
Canal Zone, which at the date of the act was in the Republic
of Colombia, passed by an act of secession to the newly formed
Republic -of Panama. The latter was recognized as a nation
by the President. A treaty with it, ceding the Canal Zone,
was duly ratified. 33 Stat. 2234. Congress has passed several acts based upon the title of the United States, among them
one to provide a temporary government, 33 Stat. 429; another,
fixing the status of merchandise coming into the United States
from the Canal Zone, 33 Stat. 843; another, prescribing the'
type of canal, 34 Stat. 611. These show a full ratification by
Congress of what has been done by the Executive. Their
concurrent action is conclusive upon the courts. We have no
supervising control over the political branch of the Government in its action within the limits of the Constitution. Jones
v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, and 'cases 'cited in the opinion;
In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 499, 503.
It is too late in the history of the United States to question
the right of acquiring territory by treaty. Other objections
are made to the validity of the right and title obtained from
Panama by the treaty, but we find nothing in them deserving
special notice.
Another contention, in support of which plaintiff has presented a voluminous argument, is that the United States has
no power to engage in the work of digging this canal. His
first proposition is that the Canal Zone is no part of the territory of the United States, and that, therefore, the Government is powerless to do anything of the kind therein. Article 2 of the treaty, heretofore referred to, "grants to the
United States in perpetuity the use, occupation and control of
a zone of land and land under water for the construction,
maintenance, operation, sanitation and protection of said

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

canal." By article 3, Panama "grants to the United States
all the rights, power and authority within the zone mentioned
and described in article 2 of this agreement, .
..
which
the United States would possess and exercise if it were the
sovereign of the territory within which said lands and waters
are located, to the entire exclusion of the exercise by the
Republic of Panama of any such sovereign rights, power or
authority."
Other provisions of the treaty add to the grants named il
these two articles further guaranties of exclusive rights of the
United States in the construction and maintenance of this
canal. It is hypercritical to contend that the title of the
-United States is imperfect, and that the territory described
does not belong to this Nation, because of the omission of some
of the technical terms used in ordinary conveyances of real
estate.
Further, it is said that the boundaries of the zone are not
described in the treaty; but the description is sufficient for
identification, and it has been practically -identified by the
concurrent action of the two nations alone interested in the
matter. The fact that there may possibly be in the future
some dispute as to the exact boundary on either sido is imimaterial. Such disputes not infrequently attend conveyances
of real estate or cessions of territory. Alaska was ceded to us
forty years ago, but the boundary between it and the English
possessions east was not settled until within the last two or
three years. Yet no one ever doubted the title of this republic
to Alaska.
Again, plaintiff contends that the Government has no power
to engage anywhere in the work of constructing a railroad
or canal. The decisions of this court are adverse to this contention. In California v. Pacific Railroad Company, 127 U. S.
1, 39, it was said:
"It cannot at the present day be doubted that Congress,
under the power to regulate commerce among the several
States, as well as to provide for postal accommodations and
VOL. cciv-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

military exigencies, had authority to pass these laws. The
power to construct, or to authorize individuals or corporations to construct, national highways and bridges from State
to State. is essential to the complete control and regulation
of interstate commerce. Without authority in Congress to
establish and maintain such highways and bridges, it would
be without authority to regulate one of the most important
adjuncts of commerce. This power in former times was
exerted to a very limited extent, the Cumberland or National
road being the most notable instance. Its exertion was but
little called for, as commerce was then mostly conducted by
water, and many of our statesmen entertained doubts as to
the existence of the power to establish ways of communication by land. But since, in consequence of the expansion of
the country, the multiplication of its products, and the invention of railroads and locomotion by steam, land transportation has so vastly increased, a sounder consideration of
the subject has prevailed and led to the conclusion that Congress has plenary power over the whole subject. Of course the
authority of Congress over the Territories of the United States,
and its power to grant franchises exercisable therein, are, and
ever have been, undoubted. But the wider power was very
freely exercised, and much to the general satisfaction, in the
creation of the vast system of railroads connecting the East
with the Pacific, traversing States as well as Territories, and
employing the agency of state as well .as Federal corporations.
See Pacific Railroad Removal cases, 115 U. S. 1, 14, 18."
In Luxton v. North River Bridge Company, 153 U. S.-525,
529, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said:
"Congress, therefore, may create corporations as appropriate
means of executing the powers of government, as, for instance,
a bank for the purpose of carrying on the fiscal operations of
the United States, or a railroad corporation for the purpose
of promoting' commerce among the States. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 411, 422; Osborn v. Bank of United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, 861, 873; Pacific Railroad Removal cases,

WILSON v. SHAW.
204 U5. S.

Opinion of the Court.

115 U. S. 1, 18; Californiav. Pacific Railroad, 127 U. S. 1, 39.
.Congress has likewise the power, exercised early in this century
by successive acts in the Cumberland or National road, from
the Potomac across the Alleghanies to the Ohio, to authorize
the construction of a public highway connecting several States.
See Indiana v. United States',148 U. S. 148."
See also Monongahela Navigation Company v.
United States,
312.
148 U. S.
These ,authorities recognize the power bf Congress to con,
struct interstate highways. A fortiori, Congress would have
like power within the Territories and outside of state lines, for
there the legislative power of Congress is limited only by the
provisions of the Constitution, and cannot conflict *With the
reserved power of the States. Plaintiff, recognizing the force
of these decisions, seeks to obviate it by saying, that the expressions were obiter dicta, but plainly they were not. They
announce distinctly the opinion of this court on the questions
presented, and would have to be overruled if a different doctrine were now announced. Congress has acted in reliance
upon these decisions in many ways, and any change would
disturb a vast volume of rights supposed to be fixed; but we
see no reason to doubt the -conclusions expressed in those
opinions, and adhere to them. The Court of Appeals was
right, and its decision is
Affirmed.

