OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

right to receive what might ultimately be realized from the
fund thus set apart became therefore irrevocably vested in
those who were shareholders on June 9, 1900, and they or
their assigns are now entitled to whatever is to be distributed
from it."
It follows, as held, that the transfer of shares after the reduction of June 9; 1900, did not carry any right to an interest
in .the special trust fund, the proportionate interests therein
having vested in the then shareholders as individuals. The
result is unaffected by the fact that distribution in cash may
have been contemplated as the assets set aside were realized
upon.
The conclusion at which we have arrived dispenses with the
necessity of discussing other questions suggested.
Judgment affirmed.

OLD WAYNE MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION OF INDIANAPOLIS v. McDONOUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 57.

Argued October 25, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1907.

A statute of Penhsylvania provides: "No insurance company not of this
State, nor its agents, shall do business in this State until it has filed
with the Insurance Commissioner of this State - a written stipulation,
duly authenticated by the company, agreeing that any legal process
.affecting the company, served on the Insurance Commissioner, or the
.party designated by him, or the agent specified by.the company to receive service of process for said company, shall have the same effect as
if served personally on the company within this State, and if such company should cease to maintain such agent in this State so designated
such process may thereafter be served on the Insurance Commissioner."
An insurance company of Indiana issued a policy of insurance upon the
*life of a citizen of Pennsylvania, the beneficiaries being also citizens of
that Commonwealth. The contract of insurance was made in Indiana
without the insurance company having filed the stipulation required by

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the local statute as to service of process upon the Insurance Commissioner of Pennsylvania. A suit was brought on the contract in a Pennsylvania court, process was served on the state Insurance Commissioner
alone, a personal judgment taken against the insurance company, and
.suit brought on that judgment in an Indiana court. The company
did some business in Pennsylvania which had no relation to the contract made in Indiana. Held, that:
1. If the defendant had no such actual legal notice of the Pennsylvania suit as would bring it into court, or if it did not voluntarily
appear therein by an authorized representative, then the Pennsylvania
court was without jurisdiction to render a personal judgment -against
the company.
2. The constitutional requirement that full faith and credit be given in
each State to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every
other State is necessarily to be interpreted in connection with other
provisions of the Constitution, and therefore no State can obtain in the
tribunals of other jurisdictions full faith and credit for its judicial proceedings if they are wanting in the due process of law enjoined by the
fundamental law.
3. If the conclusiveness of a judgment or decree in a court of one State
is questioned in a court'of another government, Federal or state, it is
open, under proper averments, to inquire whether the court rendering
the decree or judgment had. jurisdiction to render it.
4. Wherean insurance company or corporation of one State goes into another
State to transact business in defiance of its statute as to service of process,
it will, in an action against it in such State, be held to have assented to
the terms prescribed by the local statute for service of process in respect
to business done in that State, but its assent in that regard will not be'
implied as to business not transacted in that State.
5. If a personal judgment be rendered in one State against a corporation
of another State, bringing such corporation into court, that is, without
any legal notice to the latter of the suit, and without its having appeared
therein in person or by attorney or agent, it is void for want of due process
of law.
164 Indiana, 321, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. S. Worlhington for plaintiff in error:

The Pennsylvania judgment is fnvalid, outside of that State
at least, because it does not appear that when process was
served on the insurance commissioner the plaintiff in error was
doing business in Pennsylvania. Barrow Steamship Co. v.
Kane, 170 U. S. 111; St. Clairv. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Fitzgerald

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

Co. v. Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98, 106; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 519.
Return of service upon an officer of a foreign corporation is
insufficient unless it appears from the return or from the record
that the company is doing business in the State when the suit
is begun. Central Grain & Stock Exch. v. Board of Trade, 125
Fed. Rep. 467.
In the suit brought in Indiana on the Pennsylvania judgment it was averred in the complaint that the defendant is now
and on December 3,. 1897,' and long prior and subsequent
thereto, was engaged" in the transaction of business in Pennsylvania, soliciting applications for insurance from and issuing
policies to residents of. said State. This is one of the material
allegations denied by paragraph 1 of the answer in the case.
No evidence was offered to support this averment, and it would
seem that on this account alone, the judgment below should
be reversed, nor is sufficient evidence on this subject found in
the transcript of the judgment in the Pennsylvania suit.
While the plaintiff's statement of claim in the Pennsylvania
court, which was filed when the original summons Was issued,
4id indeed set forth that the policy sued on was executed and
delivered at Scranton, Pennsylvania, this averment does not
help the defendant in error. A single transaction does not
constitute;doing business in the State. Allgeyer'v. Louisiana,
165-U. S. 578; Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727;
Ammons v. Brunsuick-Balke Collender Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 570;
State v. Robb, 106 N. W. Rep. 406; Jameson v. Simonds Law Co.,
84 Pac. Rep. 269.
The Pennsylvania judgment is invalid because the statute
under which process was served on the insurance commissioner
does not provide for any notice to the foreign corporation.
'A State may, exclude altogether a foreign corporation, or
may, in general, 'allow it to do business within its territory
upon such terms as it deems properI. Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
13 Pet. 519; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Railroad Co. v.
Harris,12 Wall. 65; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S.369.

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS"N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A judgment rendered in a state court, without personal service on the defendant, may be a good judgment, even in personam, against such defendant in that State, but void everywhere else. Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; Barrow
Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 111; Grover v. Radcliffe 137
U. S. 287; La Fayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 406.
Due process of law requires notice and an opportunity to
be heard. Lasere v. Rochereau, 17 Wall. 437; Orchardv. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 383; McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall.
259.
The right of a State to determine the conditions upon which
it will permit foreign corporations to carry on their business
within its borders may be fected by the Constitution of the
United States. The power of the State-in this regard is subject
to such limitations on her sovereignty as may be found in the
fundamental law of the Union. Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall.
410, 415.
A corporation lawfully doing business in a State is no more
bound by a general unconstitutional statute than a citizen of
the State. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452; Carrollv.
Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 409.
While a foreign corporation must comply with state laws,
invalid state laws, contrary to the Constitution of the United
States, cannot be imposed as a condition upon the right of
such a corporation to do business within the State. Dayton
Coal & Iron Co. v. Barton, 183 U. S. 23.
The right of a State to allow foreign corporations to do
business in the State on such terms as it pleases is "subject
always of course to the paramount authority of the Constitution
of the United States." Hooper v. California,155 U.S. 648, 656.
See also Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 451, 455; Doyle v.
ContinentalInsurance Co., 94 U. S. 535; Southern Pac. R. R. Co.
v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186;
Swan v. Mutual Reserve &c. Assn., 100 Fed. Rep. 922; Pinney v. Providence Loan-Co., 106 Wisconsin, 402; Rothrock v.
Insurance Co., 161 Massachussetts, 425; Carroll v. N. Y., N.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.'

H. & H. R. R. Co., 46 Atl. Rep. 708; Wilson v. Seligman, 144
U. S. 45; Vallee v. Dumurgue, 4 Exch. 290; Copin v. Adamson, 9 L. R. Exch. 345, affirmed on appeal, Exch. Div. 17.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action in an Indiana court against the plaintiff
in error upon a judgment against it in a Pennsylvania court.
The decisive questions in the case have reference to the clause
of the Constitution of the United States, requiring full faith
and credit to be given in each State to the public -acts, records'
and judicial proceedings of other States, and, also, to the clause
forbidding the deprivation by a State of. life, liberty or propertr, without due process of law. There was a judgment for
the plaintiffs, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State.
The questions before us arise out of the facts now to be
stated.
On the twenty-second day of February, 1900,
the defendants
in error brought an action in the Court of Common Pleas of
Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, against the Old Wayne
Mutual Life Association of Indianapolis, an Indiana corporation, upon a certificate or policy of life insurance dated
December 3, 1897, whereby that association agreed to pay to
Winnifred Herrity and Sarah McDonough of Scranton, Pennsylvania,.or their legal representatives, the sum of $5,000 upon
the condition, among others, that if the person whose life was
-insured-Patrick McNally, of Scranton, Pennsylvania-should
die within one year from the date of the certificate, then
Herrity and McDonough should not receive more than onefourth of the above, sum. McNally died on the fourteenthday of November, 1898.
A summons, addressed to the sheiiff of Susquehanna County,
Pennsylvania, was sued out and the following return thereof
was, made: "Served the Old Wayne Mutual Life Association

OLD WAYNE LIFE AS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Indianapolis, Indiana, an insurance company incorporated
under the laws of the State of Indiana, by giving, September 26,
1900, a true and attested copy of the within writ to Israel W.
Durham, Insurance Commissioner for the State of Pennsylvania, and making known to him the contents thereof, the
said association having no attorney in the State of Pennsylvania upon whom service could be made." It does not appear,
if the fact be material, that any notice of this summons was
given by the Commissioner to the defendant.
Subsequently, the plaintiff filed a declaration or statement
in the Pennsylvania case, which contained, among other things,
the following: "That the said The Old Wayne Mutual Life
Association of Indianapolis, Indiana, defendant, is a mutual
life insurance association, foreign to the State of Pennsylvania,
to-wit: of the State of Indiana, as aforesaid, and as such has
been doing business of life insurance in the State of Pennsylvania, more particularly in the counties of Susquehanna and
Lackawanna, in said State of Pennsylvania, issuing policies
of life insurance to numerous and divers residents of said
counties and State for many years, upon application therefor
taken in said counties of Susquehanna and Lackawanna, and
was transacting such business of life insurance in said State
and counties on the third day of December, 1897, and before
and since till July 5, 1900, and after. That the said The Old
Wayne Mutual Life Association has no duly appointed agent
in said county of Susquehanna, State of Pennsylvania, for the
acceptance of service of process other than the Commissioner
of Insurance of the State of Pennsylvania. The writ of summons in this action, duly issued by the Court of Common Pleas
of Susquehanna County, directing the said defendant, The
Old Wayne Mutual Life Association of Indianapolis, Indiana,
to appear and answer, was legally and duly served on the
Commissioner of Insurance, of the State of Pennsylvania on
the twenty-sixth clay of September, 1900, the said Commissioner of Insurance for the State of Pennsylvania being the
proper person for service in this case."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

.This was followed by a notice in that case addressed to the
Insurance Commissioner, and stating that judgment would
be taken if no appearance was entered or an affidavit of defense filed by the association within fifteen days after service
of:that notice. At a later date, the Insurance Commissioner
not having appeared, and no affidavit of defense having been
filed, judgment was taken against the lif association$ by default, April 16, 1901.
The present action was brought on that judgment. The
complaint in this case, filed June 21, 1900, alleged that the
defendant association was on the third day of December, 1897,
and long prior and subsequent thereto engaged in the trans-action of business in Pennsylvania. After setting out the
provisions of the statute of Pennsylvania (to be presently
referred to), the issuing of the policy, the death of McNally,
and the making of the requisite proofs of loss, the complaint
alle~ed that process in the Pepnsylvania case was served upon
the Insurance Cornrimissioner for Pennsylvania, "the said defendant having no other agent or attorney upon whom process
could be served in said State of Pennsylvania."
The defendant demurred to the complaint as insufficient
in law, but the demurrer was overruled. It then filed its answer, denying "each and every material allegation" in the
complaint. In a separate paragraph it alleged that its only
offices for the transaction of business were, and at all times
had been, at Indianapolis, Indiana, where its officers had always
resided; that it had never been admitted to do business in
Pennsylvania, and never had an office or agency there for the
transaction of business; that no one of its officers or agents was
in that Commonwealth at the' "ate of the alleged suit, nor had
been there since; that no summons was ever served upon it at
any time, and that it did not appear in that action; that no
one ever appeared for it there who had authority to do so;
and that the first notice or knowledge it ever had of the alleged
judgment against it was long after the day when it appears to
have been rendered.

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs replied, denying each and every material allegation of the answer.
The plaintiff in error insists that the Pennsylvania court
had no jurisdiction to proceed against it; consequently, the
judgment it rendered was void for the want of the due process
of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment. If the defendant had no such actual, legal notice of the Pennsylvania
suit as would bring it into court, or if it did not voluntarily'
appear therein, by an authorized representative, then the
Pennsylvania court was without jurisdiction, and the conclusion just stated would follow, even if the judgment would be
deemed conclusive in the courts of that Commonwealth. The
constitutional requirement that full faith and credit shall be
given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial .
proceedings of every other State is necessarily to be interpreted in connection with other provisions of the Constitution,
and therefore no State can obtain in the tribunals of other
jurisdictions full faith and credit for its judicial proceedings
if they are wanting in the due process of law enjoined by the
fundamental law. "No judgment of a court is due process
of law, ,if rendered without jurisdiction in the court, or without
notice to the party." Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, 46.
No State can, by any tribunal or representative, render nugatory a provision of the supreme law. And if the conclusiveness of a judgment or decree in a court of one State is questioned in a court of another government, Federal or state,
it is open, under proper averments, to inquire whether ,the
court rendering the decree or judgment had jurisdiction to
render it.
Such is the settled doctrine of this court. In the leading
case of Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 468, the whole
question was fully examined in the light of the authorities.
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court and dolivering
its unanimous judgment, stated the conclusion to be clear that
the jurisdiction of a court rendering judgment in one State
may be questioned in a collateral proceeding in another State,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Colurt.

204 U. S.

notwithstanding the averments in the record of the judgment
itself. The court, among other things, said that if it be once
conceded that "the validity of a judgment may be attacked
collaterally by evidence showing that the court had no jurisdiction, it is not perceived how any allegation contained in the
record itself, however strongly made, can affect the right so
to question it. The very object of the evidence is to invalidate the paper as a record. If that can be successfully
done no statements contained therein have any force. If any
such statements could be used to prevent inquiry, a slight
form of words might always be adopted so as effectually to
nullify the right of such inquiry. Recitals of this kind must
be regarded like asseverations of good faith in a deed, which
avail nothing if the instrument is shown to be fraudulent."
This decision was in harmony with previous decisions. Chief
Justice Marshall had long before observed in Rose v. Himely,
4 Cranch, 241, 269, that upon principle the operation of every
judgment must depend on the power of the court to render
that judgment. In Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495, 540,
it was said to be well settled that the jurisdiction of any court
exercising authority over a subject "may be inquired into in
every other court when the proceedings in the former are
relied upon, and brought before the latter, by a party claiming the benefit of such proceedings," and that the rule prevails whether "the decree or judgment has been given in a
court of admiralty, chancery, ecclesiastical court, or court of
common law, or whether the point ruled has arisen under the
laws of nations, the practice in chancery, or the municipal
laws of States." In his Commentaries on the Constitution,
Story, referring to Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, 484, and
to the constitutional requirement as to the faith and credit
to be given to the records 'and judicial proceedings of a State,
said: "But this does not prevent an inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which the original judgment was given,
to pronounce it; or the right of the State itself to exercise
authority over the person or the subject-matter. The Con-

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

stitution did not mean to confer [upon the States] a new
power or jurisdiction, but simply to regulate the effect of the
acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within their
territory." In the later case of Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall.
350, 365, 366-decided after, but at the same term as, Thompson v. Whitman-the court, after referring to the general rule
as to the presumptions of jurisdiction in superior courts of general jurisdiction, said that such presumptions "only arise with
respect to jurisdictional facts concerning which the record is
silent. Presumptions are only indulged to supply the absende
of evidence or averments respecting the facts presumed.
They have no place for consideration when the evidence is
disclosed -or the averment is made. When, therefore, the
record states the evidence or makes an averment with reference to a jurisdictional fact, it will be understood to speak
the truth on that point, and it will not be presumed that there
was other or different evidence respecting the fact, or that the
fact was otherwise than as averred.'" In the same case: "It
is a rule as old as the law, and never more to be respected than
now, that no one shall be personally bound until he has had
his day in court, by which is meant, until he has been duly
cited to appear, and has been afforded an opportunity to be
heard. Judgment without such citation and opportunity
wants all the attributes of a judicial determination; it is
judicial usurpation and oppression, and can never be upheld
where justice is justly administered."
The question of the jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania court
being then open, on this record, let us see what presumptions
arise from the showing made by it.
The complaint in this case, as we have seen, alleged that on
the third day of December, 1897,-the date of the insurance
certificate-as well as prior and subsequent thereto, the defendant association engaged in business in Pennsylvania,
soliciting applications for insurance and issuing policies to
residents of that Commonwealth. The answer denied each
and every material allegation in the complaint, and such'a
* VOL. C(.V-

0

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

denial under the Indiana Code of Civil Procedure was sufficient to put the plaintiffs upon proof of every fact that was
essential in establishing their cause of action. Thornton's
Indiana Code, art. 10, ยง 47; Title Pleadings; Rev. Stat. ยง914.
The burden of proof was therefore upon the plaintiffs to
show by what authority the Pennsylvania court could legally
enter a personal judgment against a corporation which, according to the complaint itself, was a corporation of another
State and was not alleged to have appeared in person or by
an attorney of its own selection or to have been personally
served with process. This burden the plaintiffs met by introducing in evidence a complete transcript of the record of
the action in the Pennsylvania court from which it appeared:
1. That the defendant association was sued in the Pennsylvania court as a life insurance association of Indiana, was
alleged to have been engaged in business in Pennsylvania, and
was so engaged before and after the certificate of insurance in
question was issued. 2. That the summons in that action was
served on the Commissioner of Insurance for Pennsylvania,
the defendant association not having appointed an agent in
that Commonwealth upon whom process could be served nor
having appeared by an attorney or representative. 3. That
the Insurance Commissioner not having appeared in the
action, judgment was taken against the defendant; and that
is the judgment here in suit.
It was further made to appear in the present action that
when the contract of insurance was executed, as well as before
and since, it was provided by a statute of Pennsylvania, approved June 20, 1883, P. L. 134, amendatory of a previous
statute of that Commonwealth establishing an Insurance Department, as follows: "No insurance company, not of this
State, nor its agents, shAll do business in this State until it
has filed with the Insurance Commissioner of this State a
written stipulation, duly authenticated by the company,
agreeing that any legal process affecting the company served
on the Insurance Commissioner, or the party designated by

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

him, or the agent specified by the company to receive service
of process for said company, 8hall have the same effect as if
served personally on the 'company within this State, and if
such company should cease to maintain such agent in this
State so designated, such process may thereafter be served
on the Insurance Commissioner; but so long as any liability
of the stipulating company to any resident of this State continues, such stipulation cannot be revoked or modified, except
that a new one may be substituted, so as to require or.dispense with the service at the office of said company within
this State, and that such service of process according to this
stipulation shall be sufficient perso-nal-service on the company. The term process shall be construed to mean and include any and every writ., rule, order, notice or decree, includ-\
ing any process of execution that may issue in or upon any
action, suit or legal proceeding to which said company may
be a party by themselves, or jointly with others, whether the
same shall arise upon a policy of insurance or otherwise, by
or in any other court of this. Commonwealth having jurisdiction of the subject matter in controversy,

and in

default of an agent appointed by the company as aforesaid,
then the officer so charged with the service of said process,
shall, in like manner, deputize the sheriff, constable or other
officer aforesaid of the county where the agent, if any there
be, named by the Insurance Commissioner, may reside, to.
serve the same on him; and in default of such agent named
by the Insurance Commissioner, as aforesaid, then in like manner to deputize the sheriff, constable or other officer as aforesaid of the county where the office of the Insurance Commissioner may be located, to serve the same on him, and each and
every service so made, shall have the same force and effect
to all intents and purposes as personal service on said company,
in the county where said process issued;

."

The defendant association introduced no evidence. If
looking alone at the pleadings in the PennsylYania suit it
be taken that at the time of the contract in question the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Indiana corporation was engaged in transacting, at least,
some business in Pennsylvania, without having complied with
the provisions of the above statute of that Commonwealththat is,. without having filed with the Insurance Commissioner
the written stipulation required by that statute-still, plaintiffs cannot claim, on the present record, the full benefit of
the general rule that the judgment of a court of superior authority, when proceeding within the general scope of its powers,
is presumed to act rightly within its jurisdiction; that nothing
shall be "intended to be out of the jurisdiction of a superior
court but that which' specially appears to be so." Peacock
v. Bell, 1 Saunders, 73, 74. When a judgment of a court of
superior authority is attacked collaterally for the want of
jurisdiction, such a presumption cannot be indulged when
it affirmatively appears from the pleadings or evidence that
jurisdiction was wanting. We make this observation in view
of the fact, distinctly shown by the plaintiffs themselves, that
the policy of insurance and contract in question was, in fact,
executed in Indiana and not in Pennsylvania. The policy
sued on provided as one of its conditions that "for all purposes
and in all cases this contract shall be deemed to have been made
at the special office of this association in the State of Indiana,
U. S. A., and all benefits and claims thereunder shall be payable at such office." Besides, to the complaint or petition in
the Pennsylvania court was appended the following memorandum signed by the attorney for the plaintiffs: "The above
contract of insurance is governed by the laws of the State of
Indiana, the contract having been entered into at Indianapolis."
And when the suit was brought in Pennsylvania the plaintiffs
were confronted with the condition in the policy that "it is
expressly understood and agreed that no action shall be maintained nor recovery had for any claims under or in virtue of
this policy, after the lapse of six months from the death of
said member," McNally. More than six months had elapsed
after McNally's death before the suit was instituted in Pennsylvania. In order to obviate this difficulty the plaintiffs in

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

their declaration or statement in assumpsit, in the Pennsylvania court, alleged that the contract of insurance was governed by the laws of Indiana, " the contract having been entered into at Indianapolis, Indiana;" also, that "said policy
of insurance and the contract touching the issuing the same
were executed in the State of Indiana, in which State all provisions limiting liability on policies where suit is not brought
within a certain time are held void and of no account." The
plaintiffs cannot, therefore, be heard now to say that the
contract was not, in fact, made in Indiana. What they alleged
in the Pennsylvania suit precluded the idea that the contract
of insurance was made in that Commonwealth. Indeed, if
they had alleged that the business was transacted in Pennsylvania their action on the contract would have been defeated
by the condition in the policy that no suit thereon could be
brought on it after the expiration of six months from the death
of the person whose life was insured.
But even if it be assumed that the insurance company was
engaged in some business in Pennsylvania at the time the contract in question was made, it cannot be held that the conipany agreed that service of process upon the Insurance Commissioner of that Commonwealth would alone be sufficient to
bring it into court in respect of all business transacted by it,
no matter where, with or for the benefit of citizens.of Pennsylvania. Undoubtedly, it was competent for Pennsylvania
to declare that no insurance corporation should transact business within its limits without filing the written stipulation
specified in its statute.

Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.

404; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155
U. S. 648, 653, and authorities cited; Waers-Pierce.Oil Co. v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 28, 45. It is equally true that if an insurance
corporation of another State transacts business in Pennsylvania without complying with its provisions it will be deemed
to have assented to any valid terms prescribed by that Commonwealth as a condition of its right to do business there; and
it will be estopped to say that it had not done what it should

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

have done in order that it might lawfully enter that Commonwealth and there exert its corporate powers. In Railroad
Company v. Harris, 12 Wall. 65, 81, the question was as to the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
of a suit against a corporation in Maryland, whose railroad
entered the District with the consent of Congress. This court
said: "It (the corporation) cannot migrate, but may .exercise
its authority in a foreign territory upon such conditions as
may be prescribed by the law of the place. One of these con(ditions may be that it shall consent to be sued there. If it
does business there it will be presumed to have assented and
will be bound accordingly." This language was cited and approved in Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 Wall. 270, 285.
The same question was before the court in Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, 376, and the principle annunced in the
Harris and Whitton cases was approved. In the Schollenberger case the Pennsylvania statute here in question was involved. To the same effect are the following cases: Ehrman
v. Teutonia Ins. Co.,- 1 McCrary, 123, 19; Knapp, Stout &
Co. v. Nat. Mut. Fire Ins. Co., .30 Fed. Rep. 607; Berry v.
Knights Templars' & Masons' Life Indemnity Co., 46 Fed.
Rep. 439, 441, 442; Diamond Plate Glass Co. v. Minneapolis
Mit. Fire Ins. Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 27; Stewart v. Harmon, 98
Fed. Rep. 190, 192.
Conceding then that by going into Pennsylvania, without
first complying with its statute, the defendant association may
be held to have assented to the service upon the Insurance
Commissioner of process in a suit brought against it there in
respect of business transacted by it in that Commonwealth,.
such assent cannot properly be implied where it'affirmatively
appears, as it does here, that the )usiness was not transacted
in Pennsylvania. Indeed, the Pennsylvania statute, upon its
face, is only directed against insurance companies who do
business in that Commonwealth-" in this State." While the
highest considerations of public policy demarrd that an insurance corporation, entering a State in defianee of a statute

OLD WAYNE LIFE ASS'N v. McDONOUGH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which lawfully prescribes the terms upon which it may exert
its powers there, should be held to have assented to such
terms as to business there transacted by it, it would be going
very far to imply, and we do not imply, such assent as to
business transacted in another State, although citizens of the
former State may be interested in such business.
As the suit in the Pennsylvania court was upon a contract
executed in Indiana; as the personal judgment in that court
against the Indiana corporation was only upon notice to the
Insurance Commissioner, without any legal notice to the defendant association. and without its having appeared in person, or by attorney or by agent in the suit; and as the act of
the Pennsylvania court in rendering the judgment must be
deemed that of the State within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment,' we hold that the judgment in Pennsylvania
was not entitled to the faith and credit which by the Constitution is required to be given to the public acts, records
and judicial proceedings of the several States, and was void
as wanting in due process of law.
I The judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana must, therefore, be reversed, with directions for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
1 Ex parts Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346, 347; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.
370; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.
565; Chicago, Burlington &c: R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U..S. 226, 233, 234.

