COFFEY v. HARLAN COUNTY.
204 U. S.

659

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

COFFEY v. COUNTY OF HARLAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 177. Argued January 24, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.
The power of the State to enact laws creating and defining crimes against
its sovereignty, regulating procedure in the trial of those charged with
committing them, and prescribing the character of the sentence of those
found guilty isabsolfe and without limits other than those prescribed
by the Constitution of the United States.
The statute of Nebraska, providing that one embezzling public money shall
be imprisoned and pay a fine equal to double the amount embezzled,
which shall operate as a judgment.for the use of the persons whose money
was embezzled, is not unconstitutional as depriving the person convicted of embezzlement of his property- without due process of law because it provides for such judgment irrespective of whether restitution
has been made or not.
In such a case the fine is a part of the punishment and it is immaterial
whether it is called a penalty or a civil judgment, and the only question
on which defendant can be heard is as to the fact and amount of the
embezzlement, and if. he has an op portunity to-be heard as to that he
is not denied due process of law.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr.-C. C. Flansburg,with whom Mr. R. 0. Williams was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
An unconstitutional statute affords- protection to no one
who has acted under it. And the judgment rendered in
accordance with its mandate is a nullity everywhere. -Simonds v. Simonds 103 Massachusetts, 572; Campbell v. Sherman, 35 Wisconsin, 103; Monore v. Collins, 17 Ohio St. 665;
Astrom v. Hammond, 3 McLean, 107; Woolsey v. Dodge,'6
McLean, 142.
A judgment renderbd by the court upon a matter not within
the pleadings nor tendered by the issues of the case must be
treated as a nullity. Reynolds v. Stockton, 43 N. J. Eq. 211;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

S. C., 140 U. S. 254; Munday v. Vail, 34 N. J. L. 418; Unfried
v. Heberer, 63 Indiana, 67; Smith v. Ontario, 18 Blatchf. 454.
A judgment in a criminal case is not a bar in a civil case
and cannot be pleaded as an estoppel. United States v.
Schneider, 35 Fed. Rep. 107; Coffey v. United States, 116
U. S. 436; Betts v. New Hartford, 25 Connecticut, 180; Clark v.
Irwin, 9 Ohio, 131; Mead v. Boston, 3 Cush. 404; Corbleyv.
Wilson, 71 Illinois, 209; Ches. & 0. Ry. v. Dyer County (Tenn.),
11 S. W. Rep. 943, 945; Hutchinson v. The Bank &c., 41
Pa. St. 42; Wharton, Evidence, ยง 777; Potter v. Baker, 19
N. H. 166.
Mr. J. W. Deweese, with whom Mr. W. A. Myers and
Mr. W. S. Morlan were on the brief, for defendant in error:
At common law, a fine could be enforced by levy of execution and a sale of property thereunder. Statutes providing
for the issuance of execution upon a fine are declaratory of
the common law. Gill v. State, 39 W. Va. 479; Howard v.
Fuller, 100 Kentucky, 148; Huddleson v. Ruffin, 6 Ohio St.
604; Ex parte Dickerson, 30 Texas, 448; State v. Terry, 17
S. W. Rep. 1075.
A statute that provides, as part of the punishment for
embezzlement, for a fine for the use of the party whose money
or property has been embezzled, is not unconstitutional for
the reason that it makes the amount of the fine equal to
double the amount of money or property embezzled. Mo.
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Minneapolis & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Mier v. Phillips Fuel Co.,
107 N. W. Rep. 621.
The construction of a state statute. and its effect upon
,sheriff's sale of land as determined by the highest court of a
State, is conclusive upon the Federal court as to the land in
that State. Henry v. Pittsburg Clay MJ'g Co., 80 Fed. Rep.
485.
The constitutionality of a state statute cannot be attacked
on the ground that it is repugnant to the clause of the Four-

COFFEY v. HARLAN COUNTY.
204 U. S.

661

Opinion of the Court.

teenth Amendment prohibiting a State from depriving any
person of property without due process of law, by one who
is not thereby deprived of any property.
If there had been, prior thereto, any doubt as to the validity
of the county's title to the land in question, that question was
resolved in its favor by the proceedings brought against
John Everson for destroying the timber on the premises,
and the matter is one that has been adjudicated. Everson v.
State, 66 Nebraska, 154.
"Due course of law" simply means that a person should
be brought into court and have an opportunity to prove any
fact for his protection; the regular course of the administration of the law being through courts of justice by timely and
regular proceedings to judgment and execution, according to
the fixed forms of law. Morley v. Lake &c., 146 U. S. 162;
Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272; People v. Essex
County, 70 N. Y. 229; Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.
103.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a citizen of Kansas, brought an action
of ejectment against the defendant in error, a citizen of Nebraska, in the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska,
Where there was judgment for the defendant, which is brought
here by writ of error on a constitutional question. The land
sought to be recovered was once the property of Ezra S.
Whitney, through whom both parties claim title; the plaintiff,
through a deed of the land executed and delivered by Whitney, on November 30, 1898; the defendant, under a sale of
the land on execution in pursuance of a levy duly made on
April 12, 1898. The defendant's 'paper title is therefore the
earlier one and must prevail if the sale upon execution was
valid. The validity of this sale is the only question in the case.
The execution issued on a judgment in a criminal case,
in which, by information, Whitney was charged with the'

OCTOBER. TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

embezzlement, while County Treasurer of Harlan County,
in the State of Nebraska, of eleven thousand one hundred
and ninety dollars of the public money in his possession by
virtue of his office. Upon trial by jury Whitney was found
guilty as charged and sentenced to imprisonment for a term
of years, and to "pay a fine in the sum of $22,390," which
was double the amount of the embezzlement found by the
jury. On appeal the conviction was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska. Whitney v. State, 53 Nebraska, 287.
The sentence awarded was that prescribed by section 124 of the
Nebraska criminal code, which provides that a public officer
who embezzles the public money "shall be imprisoned in the
penitentiary not less than one year nor more than twenty-one
years, according to the magnitude of the embezzlement, and also
pay a fine equal to double the amount of imoney or other property
so embezzled as aforesaid, which fine shall operate as a judgment
at law on all of the estate of the party so convicted and sentenced,
and shall be enforced to collection by executiOn or other process
for the use only of the party or parties whose money or other
funds, property, bonds or securities, assets or effects of any
kind as aforesaid has been so embezzled." Compiled Statutes
of Nebraska, 1903, p. 1942.
The proceedings which ended in the sale on execution under
which the defendant claims title were in conformity with the
constitution and laws of Nebraska, and, the sheriff's deed
vested title in the defendant. Everson v. State, 66 Nebraska,
154. It- is within the power of the State to enact laws creating and defining crimes against its sovereignty) regulating the
procedure in the trial of those who are charged with committing them, and prescribing the character of the sentence
which shall be awarded against those who have been found
guilty. In these respects the State is supreme and its power
absolute, and without any limits other than those prescribed
by the Constitution of the United States. The exercise of the
power of the State in this field cannot be drawn in question
in this court or elsewhere than in its own courts except for

COFFEY v. HARLAN COUNTY.
204 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of restraining it within the limits thus established.
One of the limitations upon the power of the State, imposed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, is that the State shall not
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law. The plaintiff contends that the sentence
awarded against Whitney violated this prohibition, in that
Whitney had no opportunity to be. heard upon and defend
against that part of the sentence which imposed a fine and
authorized a judgment against his estate for its collection.
The plaintiff therefore insists that the sale on execution of
Whitney's land was bad, because the execution issued upon a
judgment which was void. The short and conclusive answer
to the whole contention is, that it-is not true in fact. Whitney
was given an opportunity to be heard and to defend. The
information charged him with embezzling $11,190, the property of Harlan County. The trial was had upon this inf6rmation and the jury returned a verdict in the following terms:
"We, the jury, duly empanelled and sworn in the aboveentitled cause, do find the defendant guilty, as charged in
the information, and we further find the sum so embezzled
to be $11,190." Thereupon it became the duty of the court
to impose a sentence of imprisonment of not less than one year
nor more than twenty-one years, and of a fine that should be
equal to double the amount of the money embezzled. This
was done. The case was then appealed to the Supreme Court
of Nebraska, argued by counsel and the conviction affirmed.
It is idle to say that Whitney was denied a hearing, or an
opportunity for every defense, permitted to him by the laws
of Nebraska.
The plaintiff in error rests his contention upon some language used by the Supreme Court of Nebraska in Everson v.
State, ub. sup. In that case Everson was convicted of a
trespass upon the land in dispute. He defended against the
charge by claiming title through the deed from Whitney, under
which, as Everson's grantee, the plaintiff in this case claims
title. The State on the other hand contended that the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

was in Harlan County by virtue of the sale on execution
hereinbefore stated. Everson, asserting, as the plaintiff here
asserts, that the execution sale passed no title, attacked the
judgment upon which it was issued upon two grounds:
First, that the law under which it was rendered was repealed by a subsequent provision of the Constitution of the
State.
Second, that it was unconstitutional in inflicting a double
punishment, in that the fine was added to imprisonment.
In overruling these two contentions the court described
the statute as one giving a fixed sum "in the nature of liquidated damages . . . to one who has suffered injury by
the wrongful act of a public officer," and said: "We do not
care to put ourselves on record as holding that the return
of 'the property or the value of the property which the thief
has embezzled or stolen, either voluntarily or by compulsory
process, should be considered any part of his punishment
within the meaning of our Bill of Rights," p. 158. Seizing
hold of this language, the plaintiff in error in this case argues
that by an interpretati6n of the statute binding upon us it
.authorizes a mere civil judgment for damages, against which
the defendant has been denied the right to defend, by showing
that his civil liability for the embezzlement had been discharged,
and that therefore the judgment was wanting in due process
of law. But this argument misinterprets the decision of the
Supreme Court of Nebraska by giving to its language a meaning not expressed or intended.
As part of the consequences of a conviction of the crime of
embezzlement by a public officer, the law of Nebraska provides that a fine double the amount embezzled shall be in-*
flicted, which shall operate as a judgment against the estate
of the convict. It is not of the slightest importance whether
this fine is called a penalty, a punishment, or a civil judgment.
Whatever it is called, it comes to the convict as the result
of his crime. The amount of the judgment is fixed by the
amount of the embezzlement, and not by the amount re-

COFFEY v. HARLAN COUNTY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

maining due on account of the embezzlement, and the only
question left open to the accused is the fact and amount of
the embezzlement. It is provided that the judgment shall
issue for double that amount, entirely irrespective of the
question whether restitution has been made in whole or in
part. Upon .the only question therefore open to him Whitney had an opportunity to be heard, and, in point of fact,
was heard. Upon his appeal, 53 Nebraska, 287, the amount
of the embezzlement was expressly affirmed. by the court
(p. 304), and the claim that the restitution of the stolen property relieves the offender from criminal liability was pronounced "a monstrous doctrine," 'and it was said: "Whether
or not Harlan County has been successful in collecting or
securing the payment of. the money which the defendant is
charged with having embezzled, is of no consequence in this
case." Whitney had full opportunity to present every defense allowed to him by the law of the State. The law itself
was justified by the plenary power of the State, and neither
it nor its administration in this case discloses any violation
of a right secured by the Constitution of the United States,
and the judgment of the'Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

