OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

the risk to herself concerning the outstanding tax-title, she
offered to condone the forfeiture, provided the tenant com*menced proceedings to-have the outstanding tax-title declared
invalid, and also secured the landlord from loss in the event
that such tax title should be sustained, which offer was declined
on grounds substantially asserting that the risk resulting from
the default of the tenant should be borne by the owner and not
by the tenant.
The decree of the court below is reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill for want of equity.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissent.

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE- UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 72.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Royal Insurance Co. v. Martin, 192 U. S. 194, followed as to the jurisdiction of this court over appeals from the District Court of. the United States
for the District of Porto Rico.
The party causing the removal from the local court of Porto Rico to the
United States courts of a case, over which the latter would have had original
jurisdiction as to all parties impleaded had it been brought there originally,
cannot, after judgment against him, assert lack of jurisdiction of the
United States court solely on the ground that the removal was erroneous.
Under the law of community property in Porto Rico, the wife does not,
as a consequence of a judgment of divorce against her, forfeit her interest
in the community.
In liquidating the community the husband is not chargeable with an obligation to return to the community sums spent by him on the ground that
the expenditures were unreasonable or extravagant.
If there is any amount due a wife, against whom a judgment of divorce
has been rendered, on account of her interest in the community, she is

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

entitled to provoke a liquidation, and to a decree against the husband
for the amount so due and for alimony and expenses actually awarded
to her in the divorce suit, but not for additional sums for services of counsel
in the suit for liquidation.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr.Charles Al. Bwrrnan and Air. Fritz von Bricsen, for appellants:
This court has jurisdiction of this case on appeal. Rev. Stat.
§ 702; Act of March 3, 1885; chap. 355; Royal Ins. Co. v.
Martin, 192 U. S. 150.
The United States District Court for Porto Rico had no jurisdiction to hear, try or determine this case and its decree must
be annulled for want of jurisdiction. C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v.
Swan, 111 U. S. 379; Capron v. Van Noorden, 2 Cr. 126;
Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112; Jackson v. Ashton, 8 Pet. 148;
Bors v. Preston, 111 U. S. 252; Dred Scott case, 19 How. 393,
400; Pequingnotv. Pennsylvania R. Co., 16 How. 104; Cutler v.
Rae, 7 How. 729; Continental Ins. Co. v. Roades, 119 U. S. 237;
Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S. 533; Hanrick v. Hanrick, 153
U. S. 192-198; Neal v. Pennsylvania Co., 157 U. S. 153.
Under the Civil law a woman divorced for her adultery has no
right of action for any share in'the marriage community assets.
Art. 73 of Civil Code in force in Cuba, Porto Rico and Philippines; Spanish Civil Code Art. 1434; French Civil Code, Art.
299; Ballinger on Community Property, § 5, p. 6.
In the liquidation of the marriage 'copartnership assets the
legitimate expenses made by the husband during the duration
of the marriage, no matter how large they were, cannot be
charged against his share. Civil Code, Articles 1384, 1408,
1409, 1413, 1421.
Counsel fee and suit money cannot be given in a suit for
liquidation of her share of property by a divorced wife after
divorce; and in the courts of the United States counsel fee can
never exceed the sum of twenty dollars. Ballinger on Community Property, § 119, note; Rev. Stat. § 823; Drais v. Hogan,
VOL. CCIV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for AppeUee.

204 U. S.

50 California, 121; Celluloid Mfg. Co. v. Chandler, 25 Fed. Rep.
9; Troy Iron Factory v. Coming, 7 Blatch. 16; Goodyear v. Sawyer, 17 Fed. Rep. 13; Williams v. Morrison, 32 Fed. Rep. 683;
Cleaver v. Traders' Ins. Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 864; Parks v. Booth,
102 U. S. 96.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. FrancisH. Dexter and Mr. John Spaldinq Flannery were on the brief, for appellee:
While under the law of Porto Rico a married woman, so long
as the marriage relation continues and has not been terminated
by divorce or death, has no right to demand the liquidation of
the conjugal partnership, that principle has no application here.
Although when this suit was instituted -in the District Court
of Ponce, and at the time of its removal into the United States
District Court, the decree of divorce between complainant Dastas, and defendant Garrozi, had not been passed; nevertheless
such decree had been passed and had become effective, and the
marriage between the parties had been terminated thereby,
long before the pleadings in this case had reached a final issue.
Under the laws in force in Porto Rico on June 9, 1902, the
divorced wife was entitled to her proportionate share of the
Bienes Gananciales notwithstanding the decree of divorce was
founded upon her adultery. Civil Code of Porto Rico, Articles
1315, 1392, 1393, 1394, 1401, 1407, and others.
It is conceded that under the letter of the Civil Code of 1889
and of 1902 the husband is the administrator of the conjugal
partnership, and that dispositions of the assets of the partnership made by him in good faith cannot be questioned by the
wife, but it is expressly provided by the Code of 1889 (§ 1413)
that:.
"Every alienation or agreement which the husband may
make with regard to said property in contravention of this Code
or in fraud of the wife, shall not prejudice her nor her heirs."
The court below properly held that the ascertained extravagances of Garrozi in connection with his European excursions

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

-Opinion of the Court.

amounted to a fraudulent diminution of the ganancias, an
alienation fraudulently against the interest of the wife, at least
to the extent of $22,000 and properly charged this against
his separate estate.
The allowance of counsel fees in the present case had no relation to legal services rendered in the divorce proceeding, but
related solely to services rendered in the equity court in the
wife's attempt to conserve the conjugal assets and to procure
their liquidation pursuant to law. It was through her efforts
and such services that the fraudulent transfers were set aside
and the property taken into the possession of the court by the
appointment of a receiver. Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S.
527; Central R. R. Co. v. Pettus, 113 U. S. 116.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the District Court of Ponce, in October, 1891, through
a representative (next friend), Juana. Dastas, 'alleged to be a
resident of Porto Rico and a married woman, commenced
this suit against ,her husband, Tomas Garrozi y Pietri, as also
against Juana Maria Gonzalez and Domingo Piazzi y Pietri,
all three of whom were alleged to be residents of Porto Rico.
We shall hereafter speak of the plaintiff as the wife and the
principal defendant Garrozi as the husband.
As far as essential to be considered, the facts alleged, the
cause of. action relied on and the proceedings had, up to the
pleading by the defendants, are summarized as follows: The
marriage took place in May,- 1886, and, as no antenuptial
contract was made, their property relations were governed
by the community system under the Code of Porto Rico.
They lived together 'until November, 1898, when they separated, and the wife, under the direction of the husband, resided in a house provided by him. There she lived until
December, 1899, when, owing to the failure of the husband
to support her, she removed to Ponce.
The husbafid in 1901 sued for a divorce on the ground of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the wife's adultery, and she, by a reconventional demand
(cross bill), prayed for a divorce on the same ground, and
because of cruel treatment. In this suit the court awarded
the wife $75 a month alimony pendente lite. This not having
been paid, the wife issued execution and realized from a sale
of certain furniture one month's alimony. The remainder of
the alimony up to the commencement of this suit, aggregaleng
$225, and 598 pesos, Porto Rican currency, the amount of
legal expenses incurred by the wife in defending the divorce
suit and which had been allowed by the court, was yet unpaid.
These amounts were uncollected because of the apparent
insolvency of the husband. This insolvency was, -however,
only apparent, because there was a large amount of real and
personal property belonging separately to the husband, or
to the community, which the husband had, with the object
of defrauding the wife, apparently disposed of by simulated
transfers to the defendants Maria Gonzalez and Domingo
Piazzi. The claracter and extent of this property were detailed as well as the various alleged simulated contracts, which
it was averred had been made concerning the same. The
prayer was that the. contracts in question be set aside as
mere fraudulent simulations, so as to enable the wife to exert
her rights therein or thereagainst. The court admitted the
petition to be filed and authorized the suit by the wife in the
name of her representative or next friend. Before the day
for pleading the husband, alleging himself to be a citizen and
subject of France, and that by operation of law the wife was
of the same nationality, obtained an order for removal to
the court below. Subsequently the two other defendants also
prayed and were allowed a removal. On the filing of the
record a-motion to remand was made based upon the fact that
the husband's petition for removal contained no averment
of residence. The court refused to remand and allowed an
amendment alleging the residence of the husband to be in
France.
Without attempting to state the many pleadings which

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

followed, the ultimate issues, and the action of the court may
be thus summarized: The petition of the wife- was amended
and reformed, authority being given by the court for the
prosecution of the suit on her behalf by her representative
or next friend. The petition in its final form was less prolix,
and the allegation was, added that the divorce proceeding between the husband and wife, referred to in the original petition, had gone to the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, and had
by that court been finally decided, decreeing a divorce in favor
of the husband. The prayer for relief was amended to conform to this situation; that is, it was prayed not only that the
simulated contracts be set aside, but, further, that the community be liquidated, and the wife be awarded her share.
The defense, as finally made on the part of the husband, as
well as the other defendants, was an averment of the good
faith and reality of all the contracts alleged to have been
simulated. Moreover, the husband denied that there was
community property, because nothing had been acquired during marriage which fell into the community, and because all
the property which he possessed, even assuming that the
assailed contracts were simulated, was separate property,
either owned at the date of the marriage or thereafter acquired as a reinvestment of separate funds. . It was, moreover,
specially alleged that, as the divorce had been decreed against'
the wife on account of her adultery, she, had forfeited all her
interest in the community, if any communityproperty existed.
Besides, the right of the wife to compel theliquidation of the
community, even if she had not forfeited her right to a participation in the community assets, if any, was specially challenged.
The court appointed an examiner, who took and reported
the testimony. Under a stipulation and order the cause was
referred for report to a special master upon the facts and law.
Before the master reported the wife prayed a receiver and an
injunction, upon averments that the two defendants, to whom
it was charged the property of the husband had been seem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

ingly transferred or encumbered by simulated contracts, were
dealing with the same so as to dissipate the estate and frustrate
the relief prayed. A receiver was appointed, and the defendants were enjoine(d as prayed. The report of the special
master, as to both the facts and law, substantially sustained
the claims of the wife. Exceptions taken to the report were
overruled and the report was confirmed. The court below
adopted the facts found by the master and reiterated them
in the findingsin the nature of a special verdict, made for the
purposes of the present appeal. By those findings all the
charges of fraudulent simulation relied upon by the wife were
found to be true, and, as a legal conclusion, all the property
and assets to which the simulated contracts related were held
to belong to the husband. Concerning the community and
its liquidation, it was found, as a matter of fact, that the wife
at the time of the marriage had no property, and subsequently
acquired none, whilst the husband at the time of the marriage
was the owner of various assets and described property, which
was found to have been of the value, at the time of the marriage, of $71,500. The net property of the husband at the
date of the dissolution of the marriage, including all reinvestments or avails of his separate property existing at the time
of the marriage, and, allowing for community debts, was found
by the court to be $77,000, thus leaving $5,500 as the acquet
or gain of the community, which was subject to be divided
equally between the husband and wife. In addition, the court
found that during the marriage the husband had spent, out
of the revenues of his property, which revenues fell into the
community, the sum of $47,000, during various trips made
by him to Europe, and that these expenditures by the husband, from revenue which' belonged to the community, were
unreasonable to the, extent of $22,000. From the facts thus
found, as a'matter of law, it was concluded that the $22,000
should be treated as an existing acquet of the community,
subject to be equally divided between. the parties, The sum,
therefore, of the community property for distribution was

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fixed at $27,500, the wife's share, therefore, being $13,750.
The court in its final decree annulled the simulated contracts,
and decreed the property to which such contracts related to
belong to the husband, and, fixing the sum of the community
as above stated, a money decree was entered in favor of the
wife for her share thereof, $13,750. The decree reserved the
right of the court to mnake such further orders as might. be
necessary, the receiver was directed to make full report, and
a special master was appointed with power to sell the property in the custody of the f'eceiver, if necessary, to pay the
decree in favor of the wife. On the day after the entry of
the final decree, on motion of the wife, the court passed a
further decree in her favor, directing the payment to her,
first, of the sum of $598, awarded to her by the District Court
of Ponce as her expenses in the divorce litigation, and the
sum of $133.50, interest thereon to the date of the decree;
second, the sum of $885, due for alimony awarded by the
District Court of Ponce to the date of the decree of divorce;
and, third, the sum of $1,500, on account of solicitors' fees
in the pending litigation-a total of $3,116.50. The receiver
was directed to pay these several sums out of any money in
his hands, and in default of sufficient funds execution to enforce against the husband was authorized.
The court, in its findings, has stated the rulings which were
excepted to with respect to the admission or rejection of
evidence, accompanied with such portions of the evidence
as it deemed adequate to enable a review of such rulings.
Before coming to the merits we must dispose of three preliminary questions. First. The suggestion of a want of jurisdiction in this court is Without merit. Royal Insurance Company v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149. Second. The contention that
the court below was without jurisdiction, and that the cause,
therefore, should not be passed upon on the merits, but should
be remanded to the court below, with directions to remand
to the local court from which it was removed, is also without
merit. That the case was within the original jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the United States District Court of Porto Rico clearly results
from the broad grant of jurisdiction conferred by the third
section of the act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 953, c. 812, reading as follows:
"That the. jurisdiction of the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico in civil cases shall, in addition to that
conferred by the act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies where the parties, or either
of them, are citizens of the United States, or citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States, wherein the 'matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest or costs, the sum or value
of one thousand dollars."
The assertion of the want of jurisdiction in the court below
rests, however, not upon a denial of power in that court to
have'entertained the controversy if the suit had been originally
brought there, but upon the contention that as a defendant
other than the husband was a resident and citizen of Porto
Rico, the cause was improperly removed from the local courtAnd the proposition goes to the extent of insisting that such
want of jurisdiction may be asserted by the person who procured the removal, who resisted the effort to remand, and
when the want of jurisdiction is only suggested after trial and
final decree. The premise upon which these contentions are
.based is a portion of the text of the thirty-fourth section of
what is known as the Foraker Act, act of April 12, 1900, 31
Stat. L. 84, c. 191, which provides that"The laws of the United States relating to appeals, writs
of error and certiorari, removal of causes, and other matters
and proceedings as between the courts of the United States
and the courts of the several States shill, govern in such matters and proceedings as between the District Court of the
United States [for Porto Rico] and the courts of Porto Rico."
Without so deciding, we concede, for the sake of the argument, that where the ,power to remove from a state court to
a court of the United States is restricted by statute to a certan class of cases, a removal operated contrary to the statute

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

does not divest the state court of jurisdiction, and, therefore,
does not confer jurisdiction on the court to which the cause
has been wrongfully removed, even although the cause may
have been one of which such court might have taken jurisdiction originally. So, also, we concede for argument sake
that in such a case-the party wrongfully procuring the removal may escape the effect of a judgment rendered against'
him in. the forum to which he voluntarily resorted, by suggesting after judgment the want of power to remove. But
these concessions are not decisive of the case at bar, because
of the extent of the jurisdiction conferred upon the United
States Court in Porto Rico by the act of 1901; that is to say,
in consequence of the enlarged character of the jurisdiction
conferred by that act, and' the obvious departure which it
manifests from the principles controlling the jurisdiction of a
United States court as contradistinguished from a state court,
we do not think the rule which demarks the line between the
courts of the United States and state courts within the removal
act should be held applicable to Porto Rico to the extent which
might have obtained had the act of 1901 not been enacted.
We conclude, therefore, that where a case is removed from the
local Porto Rican court to the United States court, over which
case the latter court would have had jurisdiction as to all
the parties impleaded if the case had been there originally
brought, even though the removal was irregular, the party
who caused the removal cannot be heard after judgment
against him to assert that the United States court was wanting in jurisdiction solely on the ground that the. case was erroneously removed.
3. The objections to rulings made by the court in admitting
and rejecting evidence are numerous. We shall not undertake to review them in detail or state at length our conclusions
concerning them, contenting ourselves with saying that after
examining them all we think they are without foundation,
either because fundamentally unsound' or because the objec&
tions concerned not the admissibility but the mere weight of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

the evidence offered or rejected, .or because the record is not
in such a condition as to enable us to overcome the strong
impression we form that no prejudicial error resulted from
the rulings complained of.
The conclusive effect of the facts found below narrows the
issues. Thus the finding that the contracts were fraudulent
simulations sustains the legal conclusion that the property to
which the contracts related belonged to the husband, and
therefore that subject is put out of view. Again, as the facts
found concerning the sum of the property owned by the husband at the date of the marriage and the amount owned by
him at the date of the dissolution of the community by the
divorce, sustain the conclusion that the difference between
the two was an acquet or gain of the community to be divided
equally, that question need not be further considered. In
order, therefore, to dispose of the entire controversy it will
be necessary to decide only four questions: First, whether
the wife, as a consequence of the judgment of divorce rendered
against her had forfeited her interest in the community, if
there was any such interest. Second, whether error of law
was committed in crediting the community with $22,000, the
amount expended by the husband for traveling and medical
expenses during the years 1889 and 1890, and during the
years 1895 to 1898, both inclusive, upon'the ground that such
expenditures were unreasonable and extravagant,, and therefore created an obligation on his part to return the amount
'to the community as an acquet or gain thereof. Third, if
there was due the wife any amount on account of her interest
in the community, and such interest had not been forfeited,
was she entitled as a divorced wife to provoke a liquidation
of the community and to a decree in her favor for the amount,
if any, of her interest in such community? Fourth, did the
court -'elow err as a matter of law, in addition to giving the
wife a decree for her interest in the community, in allowing
her the sum: of the alimony pendente lite decreed in her favor
by the local court up to the date of the divorce, the sum of her

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

expenses in the divorce suit which had been approved by the
local court, and an additional sum of $1,500 for the services
of the counsel of the wife in the cause.
1. It may be conceded that by the law of Spain, prior to
the adoption of the Spanish Civil Code, the wife against whom
a judgment of divorce for adultery was decreed forfeited all
right to her share in the community existing between herself
and husband. But that rigorous rule Was not incorporated
into the Spanish Civil Code, which was in force in the island
of Porto Rico / when the territory was acquired. Spanish
Code of 1889, War Department translation, Title 4, sec. 5,
article 67 et seq. Such forfeiture, moreover, did not obtain
in the Porto Rican Civil Code, adopted after the acquisition
of the island by the United States, and which was in force
in that island when the decree of divorce, which was here involved, was rendered. Civil Code of Porto Rico for 1902,
title 5, chap. 5, sections 173, 174. To the contrary, the Code
of 1889 provided that, in case of a divorce for adultery, the
guilty spouse should forfeit or lose, not his or her interest in
the community, but "all that may have been given or prorrised him or her by the innocent one, or by any other person,
in consideration for the latter." Code of 1889, article 73,'
paragraph 3. And a similar provision was incorporated in
the Code of 1902, as follows:
"The party 'against whoni the judgment is rendered (of
divorce) shall forfeit to the party obtaining" the divorce all
gifts which the other 'party may have conferred upon such
party during the marriage, or when the same was contracted,
and the innocent party shall retain everything which has been
acquired from the other." Sec. 174,
Both these lrovisions were plainly intended to depart from
the rule of forfeiture prevailing in the more ancient Spanish
law and to incorporate the rule of limited forfeiture,, as existing in the Louisiana (article 156) and Napoleon (article 299)
Codes, a similar provision to which has been enacted in the
codes oft some other countries; which have modellbd their

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

codes on the Code Napoleon. De Saint-Joseph, concordance,
vol. 1, pp. 24 et seq. This conclusion is reinforced by the consideration that, at the time of the adoption of the Spanish
and Porto Rican Codes, the provision of the Napoleon Code
on that subject had been conclusively determined not to operate a forfeiture of the community property. See authorities
collected in note to article 299 in the Fuzier-Herman edition
of the Code Napoleon, Paris, 1896.
The argument advanced jn the brief of one of the counsel,
that, despite the change in the code towhich we have referred,
the old rule of forfeiture should be held to obtain, because of
the provision of article 1417 of the Code of 1889 and section 1330 of the Code of 1902, saying: "The spouse who by
bad faith has been the cause of the nullity (of the marriage)
shall not have a share in the common property,." rests upon
a mere misconception. The provision relied on in both the
codes relates, not to the dissolution of a marriage by a decree
of divorce or for any other cause, hut to the recognition of the
nullity of a seeming marriage for causes which have operated
to prevent the marriage from having ever existed. In other
words, the distinction between the article relied upon and the
other articles to which we have previously referred is that
which obtains between a decree of a court dissolving a marriage
which has existed and a decree establishing that there never
had been a marriage to dissolve. The pertinency of this distinction again becomes manifest when it is observed that a simiar distinction and consequence exists in the Code Napoleon.
2. Owing to an apparent ambiguity in the finding of fact
concerning the liabilityo-df the husband to the community for
$22,000 it becomes necessary, before reviewing the legal conelusion of the court below on that subject, to fix the exact
meaning of the facts found upon which that legal conclusion
was based. As a preliminary to so doing we reproduce in
the margin 1 the finding of fact on the subject, as well as the
legal conclusion drawn by the court therefrom.
1 That said defendant Garrozi made several trips to Europe during the

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whilst there are expressions in the finding referred to which,
isolatedly considered, might lead to the inference that it was
the intention of the court to find that the husband had hot
expended the money; but had concealed it or yet had it in
his possession, we think the context of the finding and the
result of the other findings establish that the court intended
to and did find that the money was expended, and that the
legal conclusion as to the liability Of the husband to the community was arrived at because it was deemed that the expenditure of the money by the husband was unreasonable and
extravagant. We say this results from the context, because,
taking the whole finding, it seems to us clear that the purpose
of the court was as stated. We say also it results from the
other findings, because the facts found as to the sum of the
property owned by the husband at the time of the marriage
continuance of his marital partnership, and spent large sums of money
by reason thereof, which were, as near as can be determined from his testimony, the following amounts:
in 1889..................................... $10,000 00
7,000 00
In 1890 .....................................
5,000 00
In 1895 .....................................
In 1896-98 .................................. 25,000 00
Total....... ........................ $47,000 00
Said defendant claims in his testimony that these trips to Europe and
the expenditure of these large sums of money was rendered necessary by
reason of his serious and continued illness. But said testimony is not substantiated by that of any other credible witness, while, if true, ,itcould
'have been easily proven by the testimony of some of the physicians who
attended him, and who must have had full knowledge of his condition during these times. But even granting that the journeys were necessary to
defendant's health, the court is forced to the conclusion, either that said
defendant has exaggerated the amounts expended or that such extravagant
expenditures were not either necessary or reasonable, and hence not a
proper charge against the property of the marital partnership.
It seems that twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) would have
been a liberal expenditure under the circumstances for a man in defendant
Garrozi's condition of life.
The court therefore concludes that twenty-two thousand dollars
($22,000.00) of the amount should be charged against the separate property of defendant Garrozi.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

and the sum possessed by him at the time of the divorce exclude, by necessary implication, the possession by the husband
of the $22,000.
It is provided in both the Code of 1889 (article 1412) and
the Code of 1902 (see. 1327) that the husband "is the administrator of the conjugal partnership." By the first of these codes
(article 1413) this power of the husband was so complete as
to endow him with authority to sell and encumber, not only
all the movable, but also the immovable property of the
community. In the second code, however (see. 1328), the
power of the husband to sell or encumber the immovable
property is not given, except a contract to that effect is made
with the consent of the wife. And by both codes all contracts of the husband in violation of definite provisions of
thb code or in fraud of the rights of the wife are made null and
void against the wife or her heirs. Code of 1889, article 1413;
Code of 1902, section 1328. The provisions in both codes making the husband the administrator of the community are here
again like unto those obtaining in other countries where the
community system prevails. Code Napoleon, article 1421;
Louisiana Code, article 2404. The question, therefore, is this:
Is the power of the husband, as the head and master and administrator of the community, in its nature so restricted that
in the absence of express limitation he can, after the dissolution of the community, be called to account and compelled
to return to the community money which he has actually
expended during the existence of the community, because, in
the judgment of a court, such expenses may be deemed to
have been "not suitable to his situation in life, extravagant,
or even reckless? To answer this question in the affirmative
would be to destroy the whole fabric of the community system
as prevailing, not only tinder the Spanish and Porto Rican
Codes, but as obtaining in those countries of the continent of
Europe and here where that system prevails. We need not
consider whether the community was derived from the Roman
law, from an express provision of the early Saxon law, or from

GARROZ[ v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ancient customary law 'of the continent. For, however
derived, the very foundation of the community and its efficacious existence depend on the power of the husband, during the marriage, over the community, and his right, in the
absence of fraud or express legislative restriction, to deal with
the community and its assets as the owner thereof. The purpose of the community, as expounded from the earliest times,
whilst securing to the wife on the dissolution of the marriage
an equal portion of the net results of the common industry,
common economy and common sacrifice, was yet, as a matter
of necessity, (luring the existence of the community, not to
render the community inept and valueless to both parties
by weakening the marital power of the husband as to his
expenditures and contracts, so as to cause him to be a mere
limited and consequently' inefficient agent. See a very full
citation of authority in Journal du Palais Repertoire, verbo,
Commnunaut6, 739, 741 et seq.
In determining the authority of the husband as to the
common property two considerations are essential: The character of the right of the wife to the common property during
the existence of the marriage, and the scope of the power of the
husband during the -ame periQd. In speaking on, the nature
of the right of the wife, Troplong says:
"The rights of the wife are dormant during the marriage,
because the husband is charged to watch over and conduct
the affairs of the conjugal society. But this right, which is
ine rt ,as long as the husband is at the head of the affairs of
the community, becomes active 'when the marital authority.
ceases to exist. The wife is like a silent partner, whose rights
arise and reveal themselves when the partnership ceases."
Troplong, Contrat de Mariage, vol. 2, p. 136, No. 855.
Under the law of France prior, to the Napoleon Code the
extent of the power of the husband as to the community
property was so great that it was considered in theory that
the rights of the wife, in or to the community, were not merely
dormant during the marriage, but had no existence whatever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

In other words, the doctrine was upheld that the wife during
the existence of the community had but a mere hope or expectancy, and hence no interest whatever in the property or
goods of the community until the community was dissolved.
Dumoulin, Sur. l'art. 25, Cout. de Paris. And from this arose
the expression that the community was a partnership which
only commenced on its termination. As the result, however,
of the right conferred upon the wife by some of the customs
of France before the'Code Napoleon, and also expressly given
by that code (Code Napoleon, 1443 et seq.), to procure a decree
'dissolving the community when the affairs of the husband
were in such disorder as to entail risk upon the wife it'is the
generally accepted doctrine under the Napoleon Code that
the wife's interest in the community prior to the dissolution
is -subsisting, though dormant. But this implies no limit on
the power of the husband whilst the community exists. In
other words, although the right to a separation of property
arises from the reckless conduct of the husband, thus affording
a means of guarding against the consequences of such conduct
in the future, the right to ask a separation does not give rise
to the inference that the husband, after the dissolution of the
community, may be held to account for money expended by
him during the community because of reckless or extravagant
conduct. Speaking on this subject, Rodiere and Pont (Trait6
du Contrat de Mariage) say (p. 596, No. 657):
"The husband can then sell [the immovable property of
the community] by onerous title; he has in this respect an
absolute power, and if, in disregard of the confidence which
the law reposes in him, the husband, in disposing of the property, is impelled by the wish to indulge extravagant tastes
or to provide for reckless dissipation, and not by. the purpose
of protecting the rights ofthe wife, the latter, even under these
circumstances, has no recourse but to obtain a judicial termination of the community."
Referring to the power of the husband over the community,
Troplong says:

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"This power of 'te husband, which effaces the personality
of the wife, and which is manifested by the name of lord and
master of the community, given to the husband; this power,
which seems like unto an absolute sovereignty, exists as well
in the relations of the spouses between themselves as in their
dealings between third parties. In effect, the husband can
dissipate the goods of the community; he can lose, destroy,
break and dilapidate. "Martius potest perdere, dissipare, abuti,

this is an elementary axiom of the Palace (of Justice). The
wife has no right to call the husband to account, no damage
to obtain for his acts. Hence it is true, indeed, that the husband is more than an administrator; he is an administrator
corn libera." Ib.,,p. 138, No. 158.
See to the same effect the copious collection of authority
foupc under article 1421 of the Code Napoleon, in the FuzierHerman edition of that code, supra.
That there is-a substantial similarity between the-law of
the community einder the Napoleon Code and the law on the
same-subject of Spain, prior to the Civil Code, and as now
existing under that and the Code'of Porto Rico, was conceded
.in the argument of the appellant.. Indeed, that argument
refers to and rests on sonic of the provisions of the Napoleon
Code. Besides, when it is considered that the ancient Spanish
law, and that law as formulated in the Code of 1889 or in the
l-orto Rican Code of 1902, confers no authority upon the wife
to obtain a judicial dissolution of the comnmunity merely because of the disorder of the husband's affairs, it follows that
the power of the husband under the Spanish system is in
frinciple more extensive than it is under the Code Napoleon
and the law of the countries which have followed that code.
The practical identity of the husband's general authority, as
head and master of the community, under the law of Louisiana, the Code Napoleon and the Spanish law was clearly
expounded by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in Guice v.
Lawrence, 2 La. Ann. 226, as follows:
"The laws of Louisiana have never recognized a title in the
VOL. ccIv-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

wife during marriage, to one-half of the acquets and gains.
The rule of the Spanish law on that subject, is laid down by
Febrero with his usual precision. The ownership of the wife,
says that author, is revocable and fictitious during marriage.
As long as the husband lives and the marriage is not dissolved,
the wife must not say that she has gananciales, nor is she to
prevent the husband from using them, under the pretext that
the law gives her one-half. But, soluto matrimonio, she becomes irrevocably the owner of one- undivided half, in the
manner provided by law for ordinary joint ownership. The
husband is, during marriage, real y verdadero dueno de todos,
y tiene en el efecto de su dominio irrevocable. Febrero Adic.
tomo 1 y 4, part 2d, bk. 1st, chap. 4, parag. 1, nos. 29 and 30;
Pothier, Communaut6, p. 35 and following;. 12 Toullier, chap. 2,
nos. 22 to 31; 14 Duranton, Droit, Franc., p. 281 and foll.;
10 Dalloz, Jurisp., p. 198 and fol.
"The provisions of our code on the same subject are the
embodiment of those of the Spanish law, without any change.
The husband is head and master of the community, and has
power to alienate the immovables which compose it by an
encumbered title, without the consent or permission of his
wife. Civil Code, art. 2373."
True it is that in the Porto Rican Code of 1902 there was
inserted a provision, previously commented on (section 1328),
limiting the power of the husband to dispose of the immovable
property of the community without the consent of the wife.
But this express limitation as to one particular class of property, by inverse reasoning, is a reaffirmance of the power of
the husband as head and master of the community in all other
respects. The contention that because both by the Code of
1889 and of 1902 acts done by the husband as head and master
of the community in fraud of the wife shall be void, therefore
the expenses of the husband made during the community are
subject to be reviewed on the dissolution of the community
because of their unreasonable character is without merit.
The fraud r4erred to of necessity relates to acts done by.the

GARROZI v. DASTAS.
204 U. S.

83

Opinion of the Court.

husband beyond his lawful authority, or which, if within his
authority, have been done for the purpose of enriching himself or his separate estate or some third person, and which,
therefore, whilst seemingly acts of community administration,
are really not of that character.
3. The contention that the wife, even after the dissolution
of the marriage, was without power to obtain the liquidation
of the community and a payment to her of her share thereof,
is based upon what is asserted to be the correct interpretation
of articles 73, 1433, 1434 and 1435 of the Code of 1889. By
these articles, it is insisted, where the dissolution of the marriage hasbeen decreed because of the fault of one of the parties,
the separation of property does not follow as a legal right in
favor of the party for whose wrong conduct the divorce has
been decreed, and may only be allowed by a court at the request or option of the one in whose favor the decree was rendered. And it is, moreover, insisted that if the divorce has
been rendered in favor of a husband and against a wife for her
fault, and a separation of property has been thereafter decreed
at the instance of the husband, the power of the husband to
administer the wife's share of the community remains whilst
her interest in future acquets or gains disappears. But this
reduces itself to the contention that in the case stated the
community is dissolved yet continued. But wlilst this reduction may point to the want of coherency in the proposition
it is no reason why the code should not be enforced, if so it is
plainly written. We do riot stop to analyze the texts of the
Code of 1889, relied on, for we think they are not controlling,
even if they have the peculiar meaning contended for. We
so conclude because of a change made by the Code of 1902.
As we have already said, we are of the opinion that that code
was in effect at the date of the rendering of the divorce decree.
Now, that code not only eliminated the provisions of ar.ticle 73
of the Code of 1889 relied on, but substituted a wholly different
provision, directly repugnant to the contention we are considering. The provision referred to is section 173 of the Code

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of 1902, saying, "A divorce carries with it a complete dissolu-

tion of all the matrimonial ties, and the division of all property
and effects between the parties to the marriage." The argument made in the brief of one of the counsel that, even although
the wife was entitled to a liquidation of the community and
to a decree for her share the court below erred in giving a
money judgment in her favor, because in any event it could
only have lawfully awarded an aliquot share of the community
property subject to be subsequently realized by a partition
in kind or by licitation (sale) is unsound. As to the merit of
the contention, if any, as a general proposition, we are not
called upon in this case to express an opinion. We say this
because, as a necessary result of the findings below, all the
property either belonged to the husband at the date of the
marriage or was afterwards acquired by him as a reinvestment
of funds derived from such property owned by him at the
marriage. It follows, therefore, that the rights of the wife
arose simply either from an increased value of property or assets
brought by the husband into marriage or as a result of the
falling into the community of the. revenues of the property of
the husband. Under these circumstances we think the decree
below was right.
4. The amount of the decree for alimony pendente lite and
for expenses incurred by the wife in the divorce suit had been
sanctioned by the local court and were bin'ding upon the husband. We see no reason, therefore, why the court below
should not have allowed those items. So far as the sum of
$1,500 for counsel fees in the pending litigation which the
court allowed as a charge against the husband, we have been
referred to no authority sustaining the right to allow it and
our own researches have enabled us to discover no sanction
for such an award.
It follows that whilst the court below was right in allowing
the wife the sum of $2,750 as her share of the acquets and
gains of the community as established by the findings of fact,
the court was wrong in allowing the $22,000, and the $1,500

ELDER v. 'COLORADO.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

attorney's fee. The decree below must therefore be reversed
and the cause be remanded with directions to enter a decree
for the $2,750 and the alimony and expenses incurred in the
divorce suit with the approval of the court as previously
allowed, but rejecting the claim for $22,000 and $1,500, the
costs of this court to be borne by the appellee and those of
the court below by the appellant.
Reversed and remanded.

ELDER v. COLORADO ex rel. BADGLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 132.

Argued December 11, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

A mere contest over a state office dependent for its solution exclusively
upon the application of the constitution of the State or upon a mere
construction of a provision of a state law, involves no Federal question.
Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548.
The fact that a state court has considered a Federal question may serve
to elucidate whether a Federal issue properly arises, but that doctrine
has no application where the controversy is inherently not Federal and
is incapable of presenting a Federal question.
Writ of error to review 86 Pac. Rep. 250 dismissed.
THIS was a proceeding, in the nature of quo warranto,
brought in a district (state) court of Colorado, to test, as between conflicting claimants (Charles W. Badgley and Charles S.
Elder), the title to the office of county treasurer of the city and
county of Denver. The relator (Badgley) relied upon a general
election held pursuant to the general statutes of Colorado on
November 8, 1904, while the defendant (Elder) claimed to be
the legal incumbent of the office by virtue of his election to the
office of treasurer of the city and county of Denver in May,
1904, under authority of the' charter of said city and bounty of
Denver. The question presented for decision was whether the
election held in May, 1904, under the charter, of officers to per-

