McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 168.

Argued January 17, 18, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

A bond to secure sales made on a credit for a specified period means that
the purchasers shall not be called on for payment until after the expiration of that period, and if the declaration shows that such period has
actually elapsed since the sales sued for were made, it is sufficient although it may not allege that the sales were made on the specified terms.
Pleas in defense to a suit on such a bond alleging damages for failure to sell
on the terms and for prices agreed must be distinct and set forth the
details. In order to found a cause of action on the shortcomings of another
they must be so plainly set up as to show that they were the proximate
and natural cause of actual damages sustained.
Where a bond given to secure payment for goods sold to the principals
on a specified credit is complete on its face it is a clear and separate
contract between the sellers and the signers of the bond, and the liability
of the sureties is not, in the absence of any separate agreement in writ
ing, affected by any future alterations of the prices of merchandise sold
provided the specified credit is allowed; and parol evidence to show the
existence of any other agreement as to prices between the principals of
the bond is not admissible.•
A plea alleging damages for breaking up a partnership is insufficient in the
absence of an allegation as to duration of the partnership as no action
lies for terminating, or inducing the termination of, a partnership at will.
26 App. D. C., 193 affirmed.

defendants in error, who were the plaintiffs below, and
are hereafter so called, brought an action in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia on December 10, 1904, against the
plaintiffs in error and others, hereafter called the defendants,
on a bond, and obtained a judgment, which was entered February 24, 1005, for $5,000 and interest thereon from that date.
On appeal the Court of Appeals of the District affirmed the'
judgment, 26 App. D. C. 193, and the defendants (the two
McGuires) brought the case here by writ of error.
The declaration in the action alleged the execution of a
bond by all of the defendants in the action dated the eleventh
day of September, 1903, which bound the defendants in the,
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

sum of $5,000, to be paid to the plaintiffs, subject to the condition therein stated. The recital in the- bond was that
Monaghan and J. Charles McGuire were desirous of purchasing merchandise from plaintiffs, "now and from time to time
hereafter, which the said John F. Monaghan and J. Charles
McGuire have bound aqd hereby bind themselves to pay for
in -four months after the date of each respective purchase,"
and the condition was as follows:
"That if the said John F. Monaghan and J. Charles McGuire
shall strictly and faithfully pay or cause to be paid to said
Rosskam, Gerstley & Corpany for merchandise now and
hereafter so purchased, the moneys due and to become due
thereon when 'and as the same shall become due and payable,
then this obligation shall be null and void, otherwise it shall
remain in full force and virtue."
The defendants John F. Monaghan and J. Charles McGuire
were principals, and the other defendants, William McGuire
and John W. Clark, were sureties. Clark sued out a separate
writ of error, which is hereafter disposed of. It was further
alleged in the declaration that on the days set forth in the
particulars of demand annexed, and which formed part of
the declaration, the defendants Monaghan and J. Charles
McGuire purchased from the plaintiffs merchandise aggregating the sum of $14,497.16; that they had paid on account
thereof, at various times, as shown in said particulars of demand above mentioned, the sum of $9,100.48, leaving a balance
overdue and unpaid amounting to $5,396.68, which it was
averred the defendants had not paid, or caused to be paid to
the plaintiffs, and that the whole balance was still due to the
plaintiffs, to their damage of $5,000, with interest, besides
costs.
The statement annexed to the declaration showed merchandise sold to the defendants by the plaintiffs, commencing
September 24, 1903, through almost every month from that
time up to ard including July 27, 1904, and amounting to the
total sum stated in the declaration. The credit side of the

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

demand also showed payments by the defendants from and'
including October 27, 1903, up to and including November 11,'
1904, and amounting to the sum stated in the declaration and'
leaving a balance due as stated therein.
Judgment by confession was obtained against the defendant Monaghan for $5,000, with interest and costs. The defendants J. Charles McGuire, one of the principals in the bond,
and William McGuire, one of the sureties therein, filed two
joint pleas to the declaration, and the defendant William
McGuire subsequently filed three separate pleas, and still-later
three additional pleas.
The plaintiffs first demurred to the joint pleas of the defendants J. Charles McGuire and William McGuire and to the
three separate pleas of the defendant William McGuire. They
thereafter filed a demurrer to the three additional pleas of
defendant William McGuire which had subsequently been
filed. Both demurrers were sustained, and, the defendants
refusing to amend their pleas, 'final judgment was entered
against them.
The first (so numbered in the record) joint plea of defendants J. Charles McGuire and William McGuire alleged the indebtedness of the plaintiffs to the defendants John F. Monaghan and J. Charles McGuire in the sum of $10,000, because
that on the twenty-fifth of August, 1903, the plaintiffs entered
into an agreement with Monaghan and J: Charles McGuire (the
two principals in the bond), by which the plaintiffs agreed that
if the principals would form a copartnership for carrying on
in the District of Columbia a wholesale liquor dealer's business, and deal in spirituous liquors to be furnished by the
plaintiffs, and would also furnish to plaintiffs a bond in the
sum of $5,000, with the defendants Clark and William McGuire as sureties, conditioned for the payment to the plaintiffs
of the -amount of the indebtedness to be incurred by Monaghan
and McGuire -inthe purchase by them from the plaintiffs,
from time to time, of such merchandise, that then, in consideration thereof, the plaintiffs would sell and furnish to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

Monaghan and McGuire, whenever requested by them, from
time to time, at and for certain prices then specified and agreed
upon by the parties to that agreement, the merchandise required in said business and so to be requested, and would
allow to them for the goods so requested and required a continuous credit of 810,000, and that they should sell such
merchandise to their customers in said business upon Such
terms as totime and otherwise as they should find and believe
to be the best terms obtainable, having in view the establishment and maintenance in said District of a demand for
the plaintiffs' goods, and that the said Monaghan and "McGuire would -ot be required to pay for the goods so sold to
their customers until they ould make collections therefor
from their said customers. It was then further understood
by and between all the parties tothe said agreement, and as
part thereof, that said Monaghan and McGuire would enter
upon said business without means or capital to sustain the
same other than the continuous credit aforesaid, and that,
in order to perform their part of said agreement, they would
be required to make sales of said merchandise to their customers on credit to be paid for by said customers in periods
varying according to circumstances, as stated. The plea then
set up that on the date first mentioned (August 25, 1903)
the said Monaghan and McGuire formed a copartnership for
the purpose stated, and thereafter furnished to the plaintiffs
a bond (the one in suit) prepared by the plaintiffs and which
the plaintiffs accepted, and the defendants' then entered upon
and fully established the business mentioned and in all respects performed their said agreement, so far as they were
permitted by the plaintiffs to perform the same. That they
had obtained a large number of customers, to wit, from 70
to 80, at great labor and expense, to whom they sold on the
terms mentioned goods purchased by them from the plaintiffs, and that from the twenty-fourth day of September, 1903,
to the tenth day of December, 1903, the plaintiffs furnished
to Mopaghan and McGuire, from time to time under said

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

agreement, merchandise amounting in the aggregate to
$10,617.55, which they in turn sold to their customers, ex-.
cepting only a portion of said merchandise which they returned to and which was accepted by the plaintiffs. That
the plaintiffs on the tenth day of December, 1903, wrongfully
and with the intent to destroy the business so established and
to sell goods directly to said customers drew on said Monaghan
and McGuire for the sum of $1,500 on their said account and
sent through various banks the draft to them, and on the
eleventh of December, 1903, the plaintiffs wrongfully refused
to furnish merchandise to the above-named defendants at the
price stated, but demanded a large increase over those prices,
and on the thirteenth day of January, 1904, wrongfully refused to furnish more goods under said agreement'or further
to perform said agreement, and forced the said Monaghan and
McGuire to abandon their said business, which they had established at great expense, to wit, an expense of not less than
$10,000 and in which their profits were very great; whereby
the plaintiffs wrongfully destroyed the credit and business of
said Monaghan and McGuire and violated the agreement of
August 25, 1903, and the said Monaghan' and McGuire were
and each of them wa.s thereby injured and damaged in the suni
of $10,000, for Which sum the'said J. Charles McGuire claims
judgment against the plaintiffs; and the defendants aver that
they are willing that the same may be set off against the
plaintiffs' demand.
The second joint plea of the same defendants (so numbered
in the record) set up in substance the same agreement as- the
first, except that agreement was alleged to have been made
September 11, 1903, and the bond was conditioned for the
payment by the principals for all merchandise to be furnished
by the plaintiffs on four months' credit. The plea also omitted
the agreement that the principals (Monaghan and McGuire)
would not be required to pay the plaintiffs until they (the
principals in the bond) could make collections from their
customers. The plea also alleged that the plaintiffs, shortly

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
-Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

after the execution .of the bond in suit wrongfully refused to
sell to the principals therein merchandise on credit to the
amount of $10,000 at and for the prices stated in the agreement, and wholly neglected and refused to perform the agreement between them and the principals in the bond, whereby
Monaghan and McGuire were forced to abandon their said
business and lose all the money and time expended by them
in and about the same, and amounting to not less than $10,000,
and were and each of them was injured and -damaged in the
sum of $10,000, for which sum the said J. Charles MeGuire
claimed judgment against the plaintiffs, and the defendants
were willing that the same should be set off against the claim
of plaintiffs.
Thereafter the defendant William McGuire filed three separate pleas. The first separate plea (numbered 1 in the record)
alleged an indebtedness of the plaintiffs to William MeGuire
in the sum of $5,000, for that, on the eleventh day of September, 1903, and in consideration of plaintiffs agreeing to sell
merchandise to Monagh an and MeGuire at and for certain
prices named in the agreement, .and to give them a continuous
credit of $10,000 for merchandise sold to them by plaintiffs,
the defendants did agree to and did sign the bond mentioned.
in the declaration, but the plaintiffs wrongfully refused to.
perform the agreement or to sell to Monaghan and. McGuire
merchandise -t the prices named in the agreement or to allow
them the continuous credit mentioned therein, whereby they
were prevented from paying for the merchandise purchased
and ,mentioned in the declaration, and the defendant thereby
incurred great liability and was injured and damaged in the
sum of $5,000, and claimed judgment therefor, and was. willing
that the same might be set off against the demand of plaintiffs.
The second separate plea (numbered 2 in the record) set.
for th the same agreement and bond and consideration therefor
that is mentioned in the first separate plea, and added that
the plaintiffs, on December 11, 1903, and, again, on the twentythird (lay of March, 1904, without the knowledge or conseit

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

495

Statement of the Case.

of the defendant, entered into other agreements with Monaghan
and McGuire to sell to them, at different prices and terms of
sale, the merchandise purchased from plaintiffs by them, and
that since December 11, 1903, the plaintiffs have refused to
sell merchandise to Monaghan and McGuire at the prices named
in the agreement, though requested to do so, whereby the
defendant was discharged from his, liability.
The third-separate plea (numbered 3 in the record) alleged
that the merchandise mentioned in the declaration as having
been sold was purchased by the defendants Monaghan and
McGuire under an agreement not under seal entered into
before and since the eleventh day of September', 1903, between
them and the plaintiffs, and not according to the terms of the
bond mentioned in the declaration, wherefore the defendant
prayed judgment if he ought to be charged with the said debt
;.by virtue of said bond.
Subsequently the same defendant filed three additional pleas.
By the first additional plea (which is numbered 4 in the record)
he alleges that prior to signing the bond plaintiffs agreed with
the principals therein to sell the merchandise referred to in the
bond at and for certain prices specified in a letter dated August 25, 1903, sent by the plaintiffs to the principals in the
bond. The plaintiffs represented to the defendant that the
agreement was applicable to all merchandise to be purchased
under the bond, and plaintiffs thereby intended to induce
defendant to sign the bond, which he did in reliance upon that
statement. Thereafter the principals purchased from the
plaintiffs merchandise amounting to $14,477.16 and no more,
and the sum of $10,617.55 was for merchandise purchased at
the prices agreed upon, and the balance, $3,859.61, was for
merchandise purchased at greatly enhanced prices, made under
an agreement entered into on or about the eleventh day of
December, 1903, without the knowledge or consent of defendant; that the principals paid plaintiffs on account of said sum
of $10,617.55 the sum of $9,100.48, leaving due to the plaintiffs
under the bond $1,517.07 and no more.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

By the second additional plea (numbered 5 in the record)
the defendant set up substantially the same agreement as to
signing the bond and the consideration therefor, and then
made the additional averment that the agreement was that
the plaintiffs would not-at any timeexceed the sum of $10,000
in their sales to the principals, but the plaintiffs failed to perform the conditioris, or any of them, and refused to sell at thc
agreed prices, and also permitted the indebtedness of the
principals to continue from December 10, 1903, to January 21,
1904, to be greatly in excess of $10,000, by all of which defendant was discharged.
By the third additional plea (numbered 6 in the record) the
defendant alleged the partnership agreement between the principals in the bond, but did not allege that there had been any
time ever agreed upon for the continuance of such partnership,
and further alleged that during the year 1903 the principals in
the bond had established a good business, and the bond was
executed and delivered to the plaintiff for the purpose of
establishing and maintaining thecredit of the principals with
the plaintiffs; 'but that, on or about January 12, 1904, the
plaintiffs, for thd purpose of securing the customers which the
principals in the bond had obtained for themselves, and for
the purpose of selling directly to those customers, wrongfully
induced Monaghan to withdraw from the partnerslip and
enter the employ of plaintiffs, which Monaghan did, and that
thereby the business of the principals was wholly destroyed,
and by reason thereof they were unable to pay for the merchandise referred to irn the bond and declaration, all of which
was without the knowledge or consent of the defendant, by
reason whereof defendant was 'discharged from all liability
under the bond.
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey for plaintiff in error:
The agreement mentioned in the first and second joint
pleas and the first separate- plea of the surety is pleaded
according to its legal effect, which is proper and sufficient.

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

'497

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1 Chit., P1. 334. The breaches are set out with sufficient
certainty.
The damages claimed are such as may be presumed to resul.
from the breach. Such damages are matter of evidence. and
need not be alleged and are scarcely ever stated but-in a general
manner. Barruso v. Madan, 2 Johns. Rep. 149; 1 Chit., Pl.
371. Profits of such a business may be considered in damages. 1 Sedgw., Dam., § 182.
In this District, before the Code, the right of a surety to
set off a debt due his principal in an action against the principal
and surety and the right of one member of a partnership to
-set off a debt due the entire partnership was recognized.
United States v. West, 8 App. D. C. 59. The Code D. C. § 1568,
provides that "in an action against principal and sureties an
indebtedness of the plaintiff to the principal may be set off as
if he were the sole defendant." Sec. 1563 of the Code fully
justifies the pleas of set-off. By § 1565, Code D. C., each claim
of set-off may be considered as an action against the plaintiff.
The second separate plea of the surety McGuire sets up an
agreement, preceding the bond, fixing, the prices arid terms;
that this agreement was the consideration for giving the bond;
that the prices and terms were changed by subsequent agreements made without his consent or knowledge. The considera-'
tion was thereby destroyed and the surety discharged. This
may be established by parol evideice. Marchman v. Robertson, 77 Georgia, 40; Hickock v. Farmers' &c. Bank, 35 Vermont,476; Campbell v. Gates, 17 Indiana, 126; Moroney v. Coombes,
88 S. W. Rep. 430; Dicken v. Morgan, 54 Iowa, 684; 1 Brandt,
Sur. 454; 5 Cyc. 742, 744, 818.
The fifth separate plea of the surety alleges delivery upon
conditions therein set forth, which were "known to and ac-.
cepted by the plaintiffs," but which have never been performed. This operated as a discharge. Campbell v. Gates,
17 Indiana, 126; Hickock v' Farmers' &c. Baik, 35 Vermont,',
476.
The Court of Appeals held that the bond, not being by any'
voi. civ-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

204 U. S.

of its terms dependent upon the agreements mentioned in these
pleas, the relation between them must depend for its establishment upon parol evidence and that such evidence was
inadmissible.
There is nothing in the pleas to justify the finding, or an
inference that the surety was without written evidence to
sustain the pleas. But parol evidence is admissible to show
matter discharging a surety. Cases supra.
The Court of Appeals held that the sixth separate plea of
the surety was either a plea of set-off or else of recoupment,
and as such, bad in substance; but it is not such in form or
in effect. It is based upon the proposition that such misconduct on the part of the obligees in a bond, wilfullyr and
maliciously preventing the performance of the condition of
the bond. and tantamount to fraud, will discharge a surety.
Trustees v. Miller, 3 Ohio 261.
Mr. Eugene A. Jones, with whom Mr. Simon Wolf and Mr.
Myer Cohen were on the brief, for defendants-in error:
Damages recoverable under a contract must be the natural
and proximate result of the breach of the contract or such
as are in contemplation of the parties at the time the contract
is made. Sedgwick, Dam., 8th ed., § 146.
The prices and terms upon which the merchandise was to
have been sold, are not set forth and the pleas are vague and
indefinite in all their allegations.. A plea of set-off must disclose a state of facts such as would entitle the party pleading
to an' action if he were suing as plaintiff, and must contain the
substance, at least, of a declaration. Crawford v. Simonton,
7 Port. (Ala.) 110; Waterman, Set-off, §§ 646, 648; Garrett v.
Love, 89 N. Car. 205; 19 Ency. P1. & Pr. 754.
A plea of set-off, containing facts which would entitle the
defendant to nominal damages only, is insufficient; it will not
even affect the matter of costs. Hitchcock v. Trumbull, 44
Minnesota, 475.
Where a promise is made to two or more jointly all the

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

promi;ees must join as plaintiffs in an action for the breach
thereof. 15 Am. & Eng. Ency.. Pl. & Pr., 528.
A cause of action in favor of a surety alone cannot be set of!
in a suit against principal and surety. Corbett v. Hughes, 75
Iowa, 281; 25 Am. & Eng. Ency., 2d ed., 540.
The violation of a collateral agreement, such as that set
up in the fifth separate plea of William: McGuire does not
operate as a discharge of surety. A bond cannot be delivered
to the obligee, in escrow, or upon a condition not expressed in
the instrument itself. Newman v. Baker, 10 App. D. C. 187.
The sixth separate plea of William McGuire has been treated
by counsel and the court below as a plea of set-off, and as a
plea of recoupment; it is: in form, neither, and is insufficient
in substance to meet the requirements of either.
No action lies for terminating a partnership at will. Karrick
v. Hannaman, 168 U. S. 328.
A defense by way of recoupment must arise out of the
same contract or suit on which the plaintiff, relies to make
his case. Van Buren v. Diggs, 11 How. 461.
An alteration or modification of an independent or subsidiary agreement cannot affect the surety's liability. Domes'tic Sewing Machine Co. v. Webster, 47 Iowa, 357; Amicable
Mut. Ins. Co. v. Sedgewick, 110 Massachusetts, 163; Stutz v.
Stranger, 60 Ohio St. 384; U. S. Glass Co. v. Matthews, 61
U. S. App. 542.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The declaration in this case is attacked by the defendants
under the rule that the court will go back to the first substantial defect appearing in the'pleadings before the, filing
of the demurrer. .The criticism made by the defendants
upon the declaration is that it does not sufficiently show a
violation of the terms of the bond. The defendants ,say the
bond limits the liability of, the sureties to pay for. such mer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S

chandise only as was sold on a four months' credit, and that
the declaration does not show that the terms of the sale of the
merchandise were those which were set forth in the bond.
The declaration shows a failure to pay for certain merchandise
alleged to have been sold to the defendants, amounting to a
stated sum' on the dates set forth in the particulars
of demand,
which demand was annexed to and forms a part of the declaration. 'This demand showed that the last item of sale
was made July 27 prior to December 11, 1904. The condition
of the bond meant that the defendants should not be called
upon to pay until after the expiration of four months from
the date of each of the respective purchases. The defendants
had, as the pleadings show, paid for all the merchandise
purchased, except the balance therein stated, and four months
had in fact elapsed since the last sale. The defendants have,
therefore, obtained four months after the purchase before
they were called upon to pay. We think the declaration
was sufficient.
We are also of opinion that the two joint pleas of J. Charles
McGuire and William McGuire, and the first separate plea
of the latter, which it is contended set up offsets to the plaintiffs' claim, did not allege facts with sufficient distinctness
to constitute a defense to the action. Neither of these pleas
is sufficiently distinct to constitute a good pleading. What
the special agreement was that is alleged to have been made
between the principals in the bond and the plaintiffs, in consideration of which the bond was signed by the surety, is not
stated with any degree of particularity. It simply states
that the agreement in this respect was that the merchandise
should be sold to the principals in the bond at and for certain
prices specified in the agreement, but the pleas do not set
them forth, nor do they state for how long a time such agreement was to remain in existence, nor how the defendants
suffered damage to the extent named in the pleas, or to any
extent. It is impossible for a court to see how these damages
would necessarily or probably flow from a violation of said

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement, or that they could form a basis for any legal demand flowing from not longer fulfilling the terms of the alleged
contract. The damages alleged in the pleas are most remote,
vague and shadowy in their nature, such as could not have
been contemplated by any party to the alleged agreement,
as the probable result of its violation. While rules of pleading have become more liberal in modern days, yet in order to
found a cause of action on the alleged shortcomings of another,
they must at least be so far plainly set up as to show actual
damage and the wrongful act of the other party as the proximate and natural cause. The particulars of the alleged
resulting damages should be so far set forth that the court
may be 'able to see therefrom that such alleged damages are
neither obscure, vague or shadowy, but might and probably
would naturally result from the acts complained of. Within
such limitations, which have always existed, the three pleas
are insufficient.
The next succeeding plea is marked in the record' the second
separate plea of the- defendant William McGuire. The court
below treated this plea, together with the third separate plea
of the defendant, and his fifth (in truth, the second) additional
plea, as together resting upon common ground. We think
they may be properly so regarded. It is seen from the whole
record that the principals in the bond sued on were expecting
to have business transactions with the plaintiffs, by purchasing from them liquors, which they expected to sell to
others at profit, but the plaintiffs did not care, to sell the goods
to these principals without some security for payment of
the goods sold when cash payment was not exacted. The
bond in suit was thereupon agreed to be given as security
for the payment of the merchandise to be sold by the plaintiffs to the principals, and which the principals were bound
to pay for in four months after the date of each respective
purchase. This is a clear and separate contract between th6
plaintiffs and the signers of the bond, and there is nothing
in the declaration or bond which shows the existence of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

other agreement -than that mentioned therein, or that an
alteration in the prices of the goods sold to the principals
by the plaintiffs could, or would, have any effect upon the
liability of the sureties. The bond being complete in itself
on its face, it cannot be seen that any future alteration of the
prices for the sale of the merchandise, arrived at between the
plaintiffs and the principals in the bond, would be material
to or alter the liability of the sureties for the payment of the
merchandise sold and delivered at the prices agreed upon,
after four months from the date of purchase. There is no
allegation in these pleas that any separate agreement was in
writing, and the bond itself does not show the existence of
any other agreement or the sale of the property upon any
other conditions than those mentioned in the bond itself.
Under such circumstances evidence by parol going to show
any other agreement between the principals of the bond and
the plaintiffs would not be admissible. Seitz v. Brewers'
&c. Co., 141 U. S. 510; DomesticSewing Machine Co. v. Webster, 47 Iowa, 357. In holding these pleas insufficient we
think the court below was right.
This leaves the fourth (the first additional) and the sixth
(the third additional) pleas. The fourth plea alleges that
the merchandise referred to in the bond was to be sold at
and for certain, prices specified in a letter dated August 25,
1903, and sent by plaintiffs to Monaghan and McGuire. What,
those prices were is not stated in the plea, while the representations alleged in the plea to have been made, that the agreement
was applicable to all merchandise to be purchased under the
bond, would require parol evidence, as there is no pretense
that these representations were made in writing or that the
letter referred to them in any way. The same consideration
existing in regard to the pleas last mentioned would operate
here and render the plea insufficient.
The third additional plea (maiked 6 in the record)'attpmpts
to set up a cause of action against the plaintiffs because, as
alleged, they induced the defendant Monaghan to dissolve

McGUIRE v. GERSTLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the partnership between him and McGuire and to enter the
plaintiff's employ, for the purpose, on plaintiff's part, of increasing the plaintiff's profits and with intent to wrongfully
destroy the business of the defendants Monaghan and McGuire. As the court below well says, there is in this plea no
allegation as to how long the partnership was to continue,
and no action would lie for torminating or inducing the termination of a partnership at will. Karrick v. Hannaman, 168
U. S. 328, 333. We do not see how any legal damage to the
sureties under such circumstances can be said to be the proximate, natural or probable result of such action on the part
of the plaintiffs. After the dissolution of the partnership
of course no sales could thereafter be made, and in relation
to sales already made with credit according to the terms of
the bond, it is impossible to see how it could be said that the
ruin of the business of the principals of the bond, and hence
the damage to the sureties could be regarded as the probable
consequence of the act of the plaintiffs in procuring Monaghan
to dissolve the partnership and enter their employ. Whether
treated as an offset or recoupment, or simply as an independent
cause of action, the plea does not set up facts sufficient to
constitute a valid set-off, recoUpment or cause of action.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals was right and is
Affirmed.

