UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
204 U. S.

143

Argument for the United States.
N

UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 259. Argued December 4, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.
While the primary purpose of a proviso is to qualify only the provision
of the statute to which it is appended a presumption of such purpose
will not prevail against a demonstrative test that the legislative intent
was that the proviso was of general application.
The Attorney General having construed the proviso of § 50 of the Tariff
Act of 1890 as not restricted to the matter immediately preceding it,
but as of general application, and this construction having been followed
by the executive officers charged with the administration of the law,
Congress will be held to have adopted that construction in the enactment
of § 33 of the Tariff Act of 1897 and to have made no other change except
to require as the basis of duty the weight of merchandise at the time of
entry instead of its weight at the time of its withdrawal from warehouse.
The proviso in § 20 of the Customs Administrative Act only refers to cases
in which a change in the rate of duty has been made while the merchandise is in bonded warehouse and not to difference in weight.
145 Fed. Rep. 484, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. C. McReynolds, Assistant Attorney General, for the
United States:

The history of legislation on the subject shows the purpose of
Congress to impose duties on imports according to their weight
when entered for warehousing. Tariff Act of 1854; Act of 1866,
Rev. Stat. §2970; Merritt v. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542. The
Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, contained
nothing inconsistent with the long established practice.
To require payment of duties upon warehoused imports according to their weight at entry is not inequitable.
The statutes require one who enters a cargo of tobacco for
consumption to pay in cash according to its weight then, notwithstanding the presence of a large percentage of absorbed
sea-water. If on the same date a competitor, for his convenience and profit, enters a similar cargo for warehousing and

OCTOBER TERM, i1906.Argument for Respondents.

204 U. S.

secures three years within which to pay charges, no good reason
appears why he should obtain the further advantage of eliminating the sea-water as an element in the reckoning.
The proviso in section 33, act of July 24, 1897, is of general
application. Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607; United
States v. Healy, 160 U. S. 136; United States v. Whitridge, 197
U. S. 135; United States v. Downing, 146 Fed. Rep. 56, 59;
United States v. Shaw, 141 Fed. Rep. 469.
Section 20, act June 10, 1890, as amended in 1902, relates to
rate of duty' and not time when weight shall be ascertained.
Merritt v. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542; Saltonstall v. Russell, 152
U. S. 628, 633.
Mr. John G. Carlisle, with whom Mr. Edward S. Hatch and
Mr. J. Stuart Tompkins were on the brief, for respondents:
Duties at the rate of $1.85 per pound are applicable only to
the amount of tobacco received, and cannot lawfully be imposed on water which is never entered for consumption and
which forms no part of the taxable subject. Seeberger v.
Wright & Lawther Co., 157 U. S. 183; Lawder v. Stone, 187 U. S.
281, and cases reviewed; Marriott v. Brune, 9 Howard, 619.
Under the provisions of section 20 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, as amended, only such duties
should be levied on warehouse goods as would be payable on
the goods if imported at the time of withdrawal. Fabbri v.
Murphy, 05 U. S. 191; Parisv. Allen, T. D. 14689, G. A. 2411;
Hartran/tv. Oliver, 125 U. S.,525; United States v. Goodsell Co.,
84 Fed. Rep. 439; Oppenheimer v. United States, 90 Fed. Rep.
796; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 442; The Brig Concord,
9 Cranch, 387.
The proviso appended to § 33 of the Tariff Act of July 24,
1897, applies only to merchandise imported before the date
when that act took effect. Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423;
United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141; United-States v. Slazenger, 113 Fed. Rep. 525; Endlich on Interp. of Stat., sec. 186;
In re Downing, 56 Fed. Rep. 470; In re Schilling, 53 Fed. Rep.

UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
204 U. S.

145

Opinion of the Court.

8i; Am. Net & Wire Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; United
States v. Union Pac. R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the question Whether, upon withdrawal of
imports from a bonded warehouse, duties should be collected
according to their weight then or upon their greater weight
when entered and imported into the country, the loss having
been occasioned by evaporation of moisture.
The merchandise in question was leaf tobacco imported into
the port of New York, a part before and a part after July 24,
1897. It was entered under bond for warehousing without the
payment of duty and withdrawn from warehouse after the
present tariff act went into effect, and was assessed by the
collector for duty on the basis of weight at the time of its entry.
The importers, Falk & Brother, protested and appealed from
the decision of the collector to the board of general appraisers.
The board affirmed the ruling of the collector on its opinion in
In re Schmidt, G. A. 4214, T. D. 19715. Falk & Brother then
instituted proceedings for review before the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York, and that court sustained
the decision of the board of appraisers. 145 Fed. Rep. 574.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Circuit Court. .146
Fed. Rep. 484.
The contention of the importers is that the merchandise is
subject to duty under the provisions of Schedule F of the act of
July 24, 1897, based upon weight at the time of withdrawalfrom
bond for consumption, under the provisions of section 50 of the
act of October 1, 1890. It is contended that the proviso of the
latter act has not been repealed but is in full force and effect.
and is applicable to merchandise entered in bond subsequent
to the passage of the act of July 24, 1897. The board of appraisers held that the proviso of section 50 of the act of 1890
was repealed by section 33 of the act of 1897.
Those sections are, respectively, as follows,
VOL. CCIV-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

"SEC. 50. That on' and after the day when this act shall go

into effect all goods, wares, and merchandise previously imported, for which no entry has been made, and all goods, wares,
and merchandise previously entered without payment of duty
and under bond for warehousing, transportation, or any other
purpose, for which no permit of delivery to the importer or his
agent has been issued, shall be subjected to no other duty upon
the entry or the withdrawal thereof than if the same.were imported, respectiyely, after that day: Provided, That any imported merchandise deposited in bond in any public -or private
bonded warehouse having been so deposited prior to the first day
of October, eighteen hundred and ninety, may be withdrawn
for consumption at any time prior to February first, eighteen
hundred and nifnety-one, upon the payment of duties at the
rhtes in force prior to the passage of this act: Provided further,
That when duties are based upon the weight of merchandise
deposited in any public or private bonded warehouse. said
duties shall be levied and collected upon the weight of such
merchandise at the time of its withdrawal." 26 Stat. 624, c.
1244.
"SEC. 33.

That on and after the day when this act shall

go into effect all goods, wares, and merchandise previously imported, for which no entry has been made, and all good.s, wares,
and merchandise previously entered without payment of duty
and under bond for warehousing, transportation, or any other
purpose, for which no permit of delivery to the importer or his
agent has been issued, shall be subjected to the duties imposed
by this act and to no other duty, upon the entry or the withdrawal thereof: Provided, That when duties are based upon the
vWeight of merchandise deposited in.any public or private bonded
warehouse, said duties shall be levied and collected upon the
weight of such merchandise'at the time of its entry." 30 Stat.
213.
The Circuit Court held that those sections were not repugnant. The court said: "Neither is general in its application,
but is restricted to merchandise previously imported for which

UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
204 U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court.

no entry has been made." The court, however, sustained the
decision of the board on the ground that section 2983 of the
Revised Statutes was applicable. That section is as follows:
"In no case-shall there be any abatement of the duties or allowance for any injury, damage, deterioration, loss, or leakage
sustained by any merchandise while deposited in any public
or private bonded warehouse."
The importers denied- the application of that section, and
contended that under the law, and particularly under section
20 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, as amended
December 15, 1902 (presently to be stated), they were authorized to withdraw the merchandise from warehouse uton the.
payment of duties and charges based upon its weight at the
time of withdrawal. The court ruled against the contention,.
and said: "It seems too plain for discussion that the word 'loss,,
(referring to section 2983), coupled as it is in the disjunctive
with 'leakage,' applies precisely to such a case as the one before
us. I can not find. any sound reason for believing that the
Congress did not have section* 2983 in mind when it enacted
said section 20, as amended. It is obvious that section 20,
especially as amended, refers exclusively to rate rather than
weight." The Circuit Court of Appeals differed from the
Circuit Cou'rt in the application of section 2983. It held that
the loss, there provided for related solely •to the loss of merchandise subject to duty, and such loss had not occurred. The
court further held that'the other terms of the section referred
to actual reduction in the-value or quantity of the merchandise
itself. "It is clear," it was said, "that evaporation of moisture
.
merchandise."
sustained by
is not 'loss'
The case of Seeberger v. Wright & Lawther Co., 157 U. S. 183,
was referred to as analogous. The court also disagreed with
the construction of the Circilt Court of section 20 of the Customs Administrative Act, and held that by virtue-of the proviso
added to that section December 15, 1902 (stated later), duties
should have been assessed according to, the weight of the tobacco at the time of its withdrawal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

This history of the case exhibits the contentions of the parties and the elements of the contentions, and, it will be seen,
the case is one of statutory construction.
First, as to Seeberger v. Wright & Lawther Co., 157 U. S. 183,
which is urged as controlling. The importation there was
flaxseed. The proof showed that the seed contained dust composed of clay, sand and gravel to an average of four per cent.
The case turned upon the meaning of the word "draught"
in section 2898, of the Revised Statutes. It was assumed that
the word did not apply to impurities, and, it was said that the
lower court was correct in assuming that the flaxseed in question which was made dutiable, under the act of 1883, at twenty
cents per bushel of fifty-six pounds, less tare, meant fifty-six
pounds of clean seed, or at least seed free from any impurities,
such as the clay, sand and gravel in question.
The moisture which the tobacco in the case at bar absorbed
can not be said to be an impurity within the meaning of that
decision even though moisture in tobacco is a variable quantity
and its amount can be estimated by weighing the tobacco at
different times. Nor can it be considered as an independent,
non-taxable substance, even though, as conceded in this case,
it was absorbed on the ocean voyage. The statutes contemplate and apply to merchandise which may change in weight,
and if the moisture in the tobacco in this case can be regarded
as an independent substance-so much "sea-water," to use
counsel's graphic phrase-a question of the application of section 50 or 33, could not arise. One or the other of those sections
was considered applicable from the beginning, and the importations regarded as controlled by it, as merchandise subject to
duty by weight, and necessarily there was involved the question
at what time the weight should be estimated-at the time of
entry or at the time of withdrawal from warehouse. To that
question, then, we shall address ourselves.
It is said by counsel for the United States that, prior to
October 1, 1890, duties were uniformly demanded and collected
according to the weight of merchandise at original entry, citing

UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
204 U. S.

149

Opinion of the Court.

in support of the assertion the custom regulations of 1884 and
1899. Upon that date (October 1, 1890) the Tariff Act of
1890 took effect. Section 50, provided, as we have seen, that
goods previously imported, for which no entry had been made,
and goods warehoused, for which no permit of delivery had
been issued, should be subject to no other duty than if the goods
were imported after the day the act took effect. It was also
provided that when duties were based upon the weight of warehoused merchandise the duty should "be levied and collected
upon the weight of such merchandise at the time of its withdrawal" (italics ours). A question arose as to the scope of the
proviso, whether it was restricted to the matter immediately
preceding, that is, merchandise imported before the act took
effect, or was of general application, applying as well to merchandise imported after as before the act took effect. The
Attorney General decided that the latter was its effect: He
said, 20 Ops. 80, 82: " I am aware that under former tariff acts
the rule has been to levy duties upon weighable merchandise
according to the weight at the date of importation, but this
proviso seems to be intended to change that rule, and there
seems to be sufficient reason for such change.'
The executive officers of the Government followed this construction until the act of July 24, 1897, known as the Dingley
Act, was passed. The construction made by the Attorney
General is disputed, as applicable to section 33 of the act of
1897, and it is urged that the whole scope and meaning of that
section, when reduced to its simplest terms, make goods theretofore entered under bond for warehouse subject to the duties
imposed by the act upon the withdrawal thereof, when the section is construed in acce dance with the rule that a proviso
refers only to the provision of a statute to which it is appended.
This. may be conceded to be the primary purpose of a proviso,
but a presumption of such purpose can not prevail to determine
the intention of the legislature against other tests of meaning
more demonstrative, We said in United States v. Whitridge,
197 U. S. 135 (p. 143): "While no doubt the grammatical and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

logical scope of a proviso is confined to the subject-matter
of the principal clause, we can not forget that in practice no
such limit is observed." And the Attorney General's opinion
can not be overlooked. The proviso which he construed in
section 50 of the act of 1890 was reiinacted in section 33 of the
act of 1897. It would be extreme to hold that Congress by
doing so intended to set up the technical rule relating to provisos against the construction of the Attorney General and to
change that construction by repeating the very words construed.
And there could have been no oversight. The practice of the
executive officers for years gave emphasis and materiality to
the construction. A change was made, however-a change of
one word-a change recommended by the Treasury .Department to increase the revenues and give greater convenience
to the administration of the customs laws. The word "entry"
was substituted for the word "withdrawal," and necessarily
thereafter duties upon merchandise there provided for were to
be based upon weight at the time of entry. Nor do we see that
there is any contradiction of this in other provisions of the
statute. Certain provisions of the Customs Administrative
Act are, however, relied upon. The provisions of that act,
hereafter quoted, originated in section 1 of the act of March 14,
1866, 14 Stat. 8, c. 17, and were carried into the Revised Statutes as section 2970, which provided that merchandise deposited in warehouse might be withdrawn for consumption within
one year from the date of importation, upon payment of the
duties and charges to which it might be subject by law at the
time of withdrawal. M4t the expiration of one year, and until
the expiration of three years, it might be withdrawn for consumption on payment of the duties assessed on the original
entry and charges, and an additional duty of ten per centum on
the amount of such duties. It was decided in Merritt v. Cameron, .37U.S.542, 550, 551, that that section "was intended
to provide for cases in ' 1ich a change of rate of duty had been
made by statute while the merchandise was in bonded warehouse."

UNITED STATES v. G. FALK & BROTHER.
204 U. S.

151

Opinion 6f the Court.

Then came section 20 of the Customs Administrative Act
of June 10, 1890 (26 Stat. 140, 624, c. 407), as amended by act
of October 1, 1890, providing that warehouse merchandise
might be withdrawn for consumption within three years from
the date of the original importation, on payment of the duties
and charges to which it might be subject by law at the time of
such withdrawal. The section was amended in 1902 (32 Stat.
753, c. 1), by the addition of the following proviso: "Provided,
that the same rate of duty shall be collected thereon. as may be
imposed by law upon like articles of merchandise imported at
the time of the withdrawal." The Circuit Court of Appeals
gave controlling force to the proviso as fixing the meaning of
the section. The court said that it had held in Mosle v. Bidwell, 130 Fed. Rep. 334, "that the amendment of 1902 was
declaratory of the meaning of the section prior to said amendment, and that its meaning as thus declared was that no greater
or different duties" should be imposed on goods when withdrawn from warehouse than would be imposed on "other
like goods imported at the time of withdrawal." Regarding this decision as conclusive the court said: "If other
like goods had been imported at the time when these goods
(the tobacco in question) were withdrawn, duty would have
been assessed thereon according to their weight at such time."
But the questidn in Mosle v. Bidwell Was not the same as in
the case at bar. The question now is not what rate of duty
merchandise is subject to, or whether it is exempt from duty,
but. at what date its weight is to be taken as a basis of duty.
And weight is a fact independent of the rate of duty. The
proviso of section 20 of the Customs Administrative Act, therefore, can not be made paramount to the proviso in section 33
of the Tariff Act of 1897. Nor was that the purpose of its
enactment. It was enacted to nullify the effect of the decision
of the Circuit Court in Mosle v. Bidwell, by which section 20,
Was construed to require the payment of duties which had
accrued at the time of importation, notwithstanding a change.
of rate or that the goods had become exempt from duty before

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

their withdrawal from - warehouse. This construction was
contrary to the general understanding of the section and the
practice of the Department. This, then, is our view: the
Attorney General having construed the proviso of section 50
of the act of 1890 as not restricted to the matter which immediately preceded it, but as of general application, and this
construction having been followed by the executive officers
charged with the administration of the law, Congress adopted
the construction by the enactment of section 33 of the act of
1897 and intended to make no other change than to require
as the basis of duty the weight of the merchandise at the time
of entry instead of its weight at the time of its withdrawal from
warehouse.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore reversed
and that of the CircuitCourt is affirmed and the case remanded
to the latter court.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

NEW YORK, ex rel. HATCH, v. REARDON, PEACE
OFFICER OF THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 310.

Argued December 11, 12, 13, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907..

The rule that the general expressions of the Fourteenth Amendment must
not be allowed to upset familiar and'long established methods is applicable to stamp taxes which are necessarily confined to certain classes of
transactions, which, in some points of view are similar to classes that
escape.

Whether a tax on transfers of stock is equivalent to a tax on the stock
itself depends on the scope of the constitutional provision involved and
whatever may be the rights of parties engaged in interstate commerce,
a sale depends in part on the laws of the State where made and that State
may make the parties pay for the help of its laws.
rhere must be a fixed mode of ascertaining a stamp tax, and equality in the
sense of actual value has to yield to practical considerations and usage.

