OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

mission, and who is not at the time under the influence of
liquor, or boisterous in conduct, or of lewd and immoral character. In short, as applied to the plaintiff in error, it is only
a regulation compelling it to perform its own contract as evidenced by tickets of admission issued ahd sold to parties wishing to attend its race-course. Such a regulation, in itself just,
is'likewise promotive of peace and good order among those
who attend places of public entertaifiment or amusement.
It is neither an arbitrary exertion of the State's inherent or
governmental power, nor a violation of any right secured by
the Constitution of the United States. The race-course in
question being held out as a place of public entertainment and
amusement is, by the act of the defendant, so'far affected with
a public interest that the State may, in the interest of good
order and fair dealing, require defendant. to perform its engagement to the public, and recognize its own tickets of .admission in the hands of persons entitled to claim the benefits
of the Statute. That such a regulation violates any .right of
property secured by the Constitution of the United States
cannot, for a moment, be admitted. The case requires nothing further to be said. The judgment is
Affrmned.

UNION BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED' STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 431.

Argued December 5, 6, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Commerce comprehends navigation; and to - free navigatio5 from unreasonable obstructions by compelling the removal of bridges which are
such obstructions is a- legitimate exercise by Congress of its pwer to
regulate commerce.
Congress when enacting that navigation be freed from unreasonable obstructions arising from bridges which areof insufficient height Or width
of span, or are otherwise defective,.may, without violating the constitutional prohibition against delegation of legislative or judicial power, impose upon. an executive officer the duty of ascertaining what particular
cases come within the prescribed rule.

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.-

Statement of the Case.

Requiring alterations to secure navigation against unreasonable obstructions is not taking private property for public use within the meaning
of the Constitu~iori; the cost of such alterations are incidental to the
exercise of an undoubted function of the United States, exert-,
ing through Congress; its power to regulate commerce between the
States.
Although a bridge erected over a na-vigable water of the 'United States
under the' authority of a state charter may have been lawful when
erected arid not an obstruction to commerce as then carried on, the
owners erected -it with knowlcdge of the paramount authority of Congress over navigation and subject to the power of Congress to exercise
its authority to protect- navigation by forbidding maintenance when it
became an obstruction thereto,
The silence or inaction of Congress when individuals, acting under state
authority, place unreasonable obstructions in waterways of the United
States, does not cast upon tl~e Government any obligation not to exercise
its constitutional power to regulate commerce without compensating
such parties.
The provisions in § 18 of the River and Harbor Act of 1899, 30 Stat. 1121,
1153, providing for the removal or alteration of bridges which are'unreasonable obstructions to navigation, after the Secretary of War has, pursuant to the procedure prescribed in the act, ascertained that- they are
such obstructions, are not unconstitutional either as a delegation of
legislative or judicial power to an executive officer or as taking of- property for public use without compensation.
143 Fed. Rep. 377, affirmed.

THIs is a proceeding in the nature of a criminal information

ill the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania against the Union Bridge Company
a corporation of Pennsylvania, owning and controlling a bridge
across the Allegheny River near where it joins the Monongahela
River to form the Ohio River--'the Allegheny River being a
navigable waterway of the United States, having its source
-inNew York and being navigable in both New York and
Pennsylvania.
Stating the matter generally, the Secretary of War found
the bridge to be an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of the Allegheny River; and required the Bridge Company to make certain changes or alterations in order that
navigation be rendered reasonably free, easy and unobstructed.
These alteratio~s, it was charged, the company wilfully failed

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

and refused to make. Hence the present information, against
it. There was a verdict of guilty, followed by a, motion -in
arrest of judgment, which motion being overruled, the company was sentenced to pay a fine of $5,000. To review that
order this writ of error is prosecuted,.
The information was based on section 18 of the River and
Harbor Act, of March• 3d, 1899, which provides :"That wheijever the Secretary of War shall have reason'to believe that any
railroad or other bridge now constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed, over any of the navigable waterways of
the United States is an unreasonable obstruction to the. free
navigation of such waters on account of insufficient height,
width of span, or otherwise, or where there -is difficulty in
passing the draw opening or the draw span of such bridge by
rafts, steamboats, or other water craft, it shall be the duty
of the said Secretary, first giving the parties reasonable opportunity to be heard, to give notice to the persons or corporations owning or controlling such bridge so to alter the same as
to render navigation through or under it reasonably free, easy,
and unobstructed; and in giving such notice he shall specify
the changes, recommended by Chief of Engineers, that are
required to be made,, and shall prescribe in each case a reasonable time in which to make them. If at the eiid of -such
time the alteration has not been made, the Secretary of War
shall forthwith notify the United States district att6rney for
the. district in which such bridge is situated, to the end that
the criminal proceedings hereinafter mentioned may be takers.
If the persons, corporation, or association owning or controlling
any railroad or other bridge shall, after receiving notice to that
effect, as hereinbefore required, 'from the Secretary of War,
and within 'the time prescribed by him, wilfully fail or refuse
to remove the same or to comply with the lawful order' of the
Secretary of War in the premises, such persons, corporation,
or association shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
on con ,iction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars; and every month such personsi cor-

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

poration, or. association shall remain in default-in respect to
the removal or alteration of such bridge shall be deceed a
new offense, and subject the persons, corporation, or asso-.
ciation so offending to the penalties above prescribed: Provided, That in any. case arising under the provisions of this
section an appeal or writ of .errorrhay be taken from the
district courts or from the existing circuit courts direct to the
Suprene Court either by the United States or by the defend7
ants." 30 StatL 1121, 1153, c. 425.
Legislation simili6r in its, general character can be found in
River and Harbor Acts passed at previous' sessions of Congress. Act of 1884, 23 Stat. 123, 148, c. 229; Act of April 11th,
1888, 25 Stat. 400, 424, 425, c. 860, §§ 9) 10; and act of September 19th, 1890, 26 Stat. 426, 453, c. 907, §§ 4, 5. Finally,
we have: the act of March 23d, 1906, 34 Stat. 84, c. 1130, §§ 4, 5,
which covers the same ground as the act of 1899 under which'
the present. information was filed.
It appears that tltfe Bridge Company was iricorpQrated by
an act of the Pennsylvania legislature, approved March 13th,
1873, with authority to construct a bridge ovbr the Allegheny
River,, in the City of Allegheny. That act contains this
proviso: "-That the erection of said' bridge shall not obstruct,
the navigation of' said river, so as to endanger the passage. of
rafts, steamboats, -or other Water crafts; aiid the 'piers -shall
not be so placed as to interfere, with tow-boats proceeding out
with their tows. made up, and shall be constructed in such'
manner as to meet the requisitions of. the law in regard to the
obstructions of' navigation."
The bridge was constructed in 1874 and 1875, and has been
in use since 1875.
In 1902 a petition was sent to the Secretary of War by persons, corporailons and com panies in and about Pittsburg,
which contained, among other things, these statements:
"There can be no doubt whatever that this bridge is an unreasonable obstruction t6' the, free navigation of the Ohio,..
Monongahela and-Alleghehy Rivers on account of insufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

height and the filling in of the river or rivers over which it
passes in order to provide approaches for it. We respectfully
request that you 'will investigate this matter, having full confidence that after making such investigation you will find it to
be your duty to take action against its owners, the, Union
Bridge Company, under the provisions of Section 18, of the
River and Harbor Act, approved March 3, A. D. 1899.
It was built of such a low height above the water as to cause
the almost complete obstruction of all the packet and towboat trade passing from the Allegheny River into the Ohio
and Monongahela rivers, and from these rivers into the
Allegheny. In building it the width of the river was very
materially narrowed as already stated by the fills made for
the approaches. The river commerce of Pittsburg, as you are
aware, is of very great magnitude and importance. and is
rapidly increasing in volume. For the last calendar year it
amounted to 10,916,489 tons, being about equal to that of
the harbor of New York. The extension of the manufacturing
industries of Pittsburg up the Allegheny River is making it of
much greater importance than heretofore that -he navigation
to and from that river should not be obstructed. The present
time is peculiarly appropriate for action by. you. The Union
Bridge is.an old wooden structure and will soon need, in factit already needs, extensive rdpairs to make it safe for public
use. Therefore, as the bridge in question deprives the com-,
munity of a reasonable use of the Allegheny River in cou-,
nection with the river business of this great harbor, we appeal
to you to exercise the powers committed to you to abate or
,to at least mitigate this great public nuisance as you shall find
yourself justified by the law-and the facts of the case."
The matter was referred by the Secretary of War to the.
proper officers of the Engineer Corps of the Army for examination and reiort., Such examination was had upon notice to
the Bridge Company, and under .date of December 8th, 1902,
Captain Sibert, captain of engineers, who conducted the examination, reported and recommended to the Chief of En-

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

gineers that the company be given notice to make certain
alterations in its bridge.
On December 16th, 1902, the Ohief of Engineers transmitted
that report to the Secretary of War, saying: "As re.quired by
the law and the instructions of the' War Department, a public
hearing has been held, after due advertisement, and all interested parties have been afforded an opportunity. to present
.their views. Attention is respectfully invited to the accompanying report on the subject, dated the 8th instant, by
Captain Sibert, and to its accompanying papers. In this report
Captain Sibert fully discusses all phases of the question and
shows that, without reference to the use of the Allegheny River
for through navigation, the bridge in question is an unreasonable obstruction, and practically a bar to the use of that
portion of Pittsburg Harbor situated on the river. He stat es
that none of the boats engaged in interstate commerce from
Pittsburg, south and west, can reach, at low water, a single
manufacturing plant or wharf in the- cities of Pittsburg and
Allegheny on the Allegheny River. He submits a photograph
to show that the portion of Pittsburg Harbor in the Monongahela River is crowded with shipping while that portion in
the Allegheny has none', all due 'to the existence of the Union
Bridge. It is also shown by the, evidence that.the lower
portion of the Allegheny River would be of great importance,
as aharbor of refuge when ice is running) out of the Monongahela River, if it were not obstructed by the Union Bridge.
He reaches the conclusion, based on the facts developed at.
the hearing, that in order to give the shipping at Pittsburg
increased harbor room and to enable it to connect with wharves
and manufacturing plants in that part of the harbor located
on the Allegheny River, the Union Bridge should be so raised
as to provide a channel-span with a clear height of 70 feet
the same as exists under the bridge known as the 'Point
Bridge' on the Monongahela River, and the same that will
exist under the Wabash' Railroad bridge just being built immediately above the Point Bridge.,. It appears that this
VOL. cciv-24.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

briage was built-in 1873',4 by the Union Bridge Company,
incorporated under auth.ority of ari act of the Pennsylvania
legislature of March 13; 1873, and that' it has been the subject
of complaint on the. part of the navigation interests practically
ever since its completion. Numerous investigations have been
made by different engineer officers, who have held public hearings on tho subject, and' who have- concurred in expressing.the"
opinion that the bridge was 'an unreasonable obstruction to'
navigation, and that it should be raised so as to give a headroom equal at least to -tht'of the aforesaid Point Bridge at
the mouth. of the Monongahela River. The Union Bridge is
situated at the mouth of the Allegheny'3-River, and there seems
to be no room f'r doubt that the' alteration of the ,bridge is
essential to the reasonable use for navigation and commercial
purposes 'of that portion 6f the river forming a parf of Pittsburg Harbor.,. Captain Sibert recommends' that the bridge in
question be so, altered as to give two navigable spans extending riverward from the left abutment, of not less than 394 feet
clear width each; the second §pan frQm the, Pittsburg shore
to give a clear headroom ovier the Davis Island Pool of not
less than 70 feet; and.the first span from the same shore to
give a headroomof not less than 70 feet at the pierand 62 feet
at the abutment; also that the piers of the altered 'structure
siall have no riprapping or other- pier protection -above an
elevation of 10 feet below the surface bf Davis Island.Pool, and
that all parts of the old structure not comprised in the .new
construction and.in conformity With the above requirements
shall be wholly removed. The period of 18 months is considered by him ample time within"which to make these alterations. I concur in his views and recomme nd that- notice be
served on the bridgIe company, requiring the alterations: to be
made and completed as specified by him."
'Under date of twentieth of January, 1903, Mr. Root, then
Secretary of War, is ued a formal notice to the -Bridge Com-.
pany stating that he had good reason to believe that its bridge.
was an 'unreasonable obstruction 'to. free' navigation. The

UNION BRIDGE CO v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

notice informed the company of the alterations of its bridge
recommended by the Chief of Engineers as necessary, and concluded: "And whereas, eighteen months from the date of
.service of this notice is a reasonable time in Which to alter the
said bridge as described above; Now, therefore, 'in obedience
to, and by virtue of, section eighteen of an act of the Congress
of the United States entitled 'An Act making appropriations
for the construction, repair and preservation of certain public
works on'rivers and harbors, and for other purposes,' approved
March 3, 1899, I,. Elihu Root, Secretary of War, do hereby
notify the said Union Bridge Company to alter the said bridge
as described above, and -prescribe that said alterations shall
be made and completed on or before the expiration of, eighteen
months from the date of service. hereof."
As the request of the Bridge Company, the time fixed by
Secretary Root for altering, changing and elevating the bridge
was extended by his successor, Secretary Taft, to December 1st, 1904. By order of the'latter officer the time was
extended to January 1st, 1905.
Subsequently, a rehearing was asked for by the Bridge
Company, but the rehearing was refused and Secretary Taft
made 'the following order: "The -Union Bridge is an unreasonable obstruction to commerce of the Allegheny River. If
the bridge were not there; the winter refuge which the stretch
of the Allegheny River up to the next bridge would offer for
the fleet of boats, which usually are moored in the MAonongahela, would be a Very great advantage for navigation and
commerce on the Ohio River and its tributaries. The two
rivers, the Allegheny and the Monongahela, because they rise
in different sections of the country, have their ice breaks at
different times in the early spring. The mouth of the one
offers very (lesirable refuge to the vessels that are exposed to
danger from the breaking up of ice in the- headwdters of the
other. The-Union Bridge at the mouth of the Allegheny was
erected at a time when the Secretary of War was not given
specific control over navigqble streams, and was -not authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S..

to inhibit the construction of bridges which were likely to
obstruct navigation, but it appears that an army engineer,
Colonel Merrill, in charge of the District, publicly announced
that this bridge was an obstruction to navigation when it was
erected. It was erected, therefore, in the face of the in-formation given by the best authority that could be consulted
in that matter in the Government. These'are the facts that I
find independently of any previous adjudication; but added
to this, is the finding of my predecessor, Mr. Root, to exactly
the same effect, upon which he based an order that the bridge
as an obstruction to navigation be abated. This matter is
now before me on a petition for rehearing of Mr. Root's order.
As an original question I should have ruled as Mr. Root ruled,
and a fortiori, because the 'orders of this Department are not
to be lightly set aside, and are to be treated as a decree in equity
would be and be set aside only-,upon a showing of a palpable
error or mistake. The petition for rehearing is denied, and
the order. suspending the operation of Mr. Root's order is now
revoked. The order will be put in full force and executed by
the proper officers and the Union Bridge will be notified accordingly."
In the opinion of the District Court, delivered on a motion in
arrest of judgment, it was said: "The obstrufetion here involved
consists of a bridge over the Allegheny River just above its
junction with the Monongahela at Pittsburg. The Allegheny
Riyer rises in Pennsylvania, flows north into New York State
and thence back into Pennsylvania. The latter State, by
act of March 21, 1798, enacted the Allegheny, from the New
York State line to its mouth, a navigable stream, and the
State of New York, by act of March'31, 1807, did likewise in
its counties of Genesee and Allegheny. The Allegheny is the
principal branch of the Ohio, its volume being six times greater
is included in the general
than that of the Monongahela. It,
plan for the improvement by the National Government of local
interstate water ways and the' harbor of Pittsburg. The
Government has built or has now in process of construction

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

a system of locks and dams on the Allegheny which will slackwater the stream for twenty-seven miles from. its, mouth.
The Davis IslIand Dam, situate five miles below Pittsburg
on the Ohio River, raisesthe water .inthe Allegheny and
Monongahela at their junction six feet above their normal
depths and backs its water to the first dams of the Allegheny
axd Monongahela slackwater systems respectively. These
waters form the harbor, of Pittsburg, the importance of which
harbor will be appreciated from the fact that the tonnage in
water transportation passing from it the past year exceeded
that of the Suez Canal for the same period. Fromits size,
interstate relation and its being a part of this really great
harbor, it will be seen that the Allegheny answers the requirement of a navigable 'stream, The Montello, 11 Wall. 411, and is
also one over which the National Government has assumed
jurisdiction. The Union Bridge is a pier-supported, wooden
structure; it crosses from Pittsburg to Allegheny City; and
is the first bridge on the Allegheny."
Mr..D. T. Watson and Mr. Johns McCleave, with whom,
Mr. John S. Wendt and Mr. W. B. Rodgers were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
* The Union 'Bridge located in Pennsylvania and spanning
the Allegheny River from Pittsburg to Allegheny City, erected
in 1874, prior to any legislation by Congress,-and under an act,
of Pennsylvania, approved August 17, 1873, p. 86, and ever
since maintained and used as a public traffic bridge,- collecting
tolls for use of the same, was when the present proceedings
were instituted by .the Secretary of 'War and when he made
his 6rder of January 20, 1906, for the alteration of said bridge,
a lawful structure and the private property of the Union
Bridge Company. People v. Renssalaer R. R. Co., 15 Wend.
113; Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch' 125 U. S.2; Lake
Shore Company v. Ohio, 165-U. S. 365; Gilman . Philadelphia,.
3 Wall. 713; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States,, 148
U. S. 325.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff inError.

204 U. S.

As to what legislation of Congress is necessary to evince
a determination of Congress to exercise its jurisdiction over
any given river, "see Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 727;
The Wheeling' Bridge Case, 13 How. 630; Lake Shore, Co. v.

Ohio, 165 U.. S. 365.
As, Congress had not legislated and assumed jurisdiction
of the Allegheny River prior to 1875, the absence 6f such
legislation was really affirmative action by Congress that the
State might freely legislate on the subject of the erection of
bridges across the streams within its borders. Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.697.
The Government offered no evidence to show that the
bridge was not constructed in accordance with its charter,
or as constructed was, as a fact, an unreasonable obstruction
to navigation, and the fact that the State of Pennsylvania,
which granted the charter, had for over thirty years acquiesced
in the construction of the bridge and in the bridge as constructed, and had made no objection whatever to it, is conclusive in the Federal court that the bridge was lawfully constructed- Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 2.
The Union Bridge when erected in 1874 was a lawful'structure." It was directly authorized by the State of Pennsylvania
-and approved of by that State acquiescing in its construction
for over thirty years. It was indirectly, but affirmatively
authorized by the United States Government because that
Government by its inaction as to the Allegheny River authorized affirmative action by the State of Pennsylvania in
the erection of bridgcs over that river.
The state or the Federal Government, no more than the
individual can foresee the futur! and tell how in the future
years the bridge will affect navigation under it. Both governments act as the individual does under the circumstances
surrounding him or it, and if either the state or the Federal
Government authorizes the erection of the bridge in a certain
way, or approves by acquiescence of a bridge in a certain way
the bridge becomes a lawful structure. It is always a ques-

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U.S.

375-

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion of discretion in the State or the United States, and especialfy if both approv'ed the bridge as a lawful structure.
This has been ruled by this court in a number of cases. Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How. 518; S. C., 18 How. 421; Bridge Co.
v. United States, 105 U. S. 470.
As the bridge was then erected under state authority with
the consent of the United States Government, it became and
was the private property of the Union Bridge Company, and
not even the United States Government claiming its sovereign
right under the commerce-clause could take that bridge for
public use, without due compensation, or deprive
the Union
Bridge Company of it without due process of law. Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United'States, 148 U. S.312.
The right of the State and the city was sustained in the
Supreme Court of Illinois hs a state question. West.Chicago
Street Ry. Co. v. People, 214 Illinois, 9; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v.
People, 212 Illinois, 103.
The present case comes 'under another class of cases, and
,among them are the-following. United States v. Lynah, 188,
U. 5. 445; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148
U. S.312; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.635; Scranton
v. Wheeler, 179 V. S. 146; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497.
The power'of Congress to regulatd commerce is restricted
by the provision of the Federal Coistitution that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation, nor deprive one of property, without due process
of law. No power is given to any Department of the United
States Government to destroy private property without 'giving
the owner an opportunity to be heard on the question as to
whether it is or is not a nuisance or subject to such destruction.
Admitting for the sake of argument ,that Congress might
decree by an explicit and express 'act, any bridge over any
river a, nuisance and an unlawful obstruction, it is submitted
that before Congress could carry into effect that judgment
the owner of the property has a right to be heard on the question whether as a fact it is a' nuisance and interferes with navi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

gation. Unless as a fact it is such a nuisance and interference,
even Congress cannot destrby it and remove it without conipensation.. Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 718; Murray v.
Land & Improviement Co., 18 How. 272.
The question whether the Union Bridge is an unreasonable
obstruction to navigation which makes it a nuisance, is a
judicial one which entitles the Bridge Company to a hearing
on the merits before it can be deprived of its life. Commonwealth v. New Bedford Bridge Co., 2 Gray, 339; Commonwealth
v. Pittsburg & Connellsville R. Co., 58 Pa. St. 26; Mayor vi
Connellsville & S. P. R. Co., 4 Am. Law Register (N. s.), 750;
Fisher v. McGirr, 1 Gray,. 36; Colon v. Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188.
Section 18, of the act of March 3, 1899, under which these
proceedings were had, does not provide for "due process of
law." That term means a course of legal proceedings according to those rules and proceedings which have been established by our jurisprudence for -the protection and enforcement of publicrights. -Kennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 480;
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95.U. S.714; Hager v. Reclamation District,
111 U. S.701; Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S.265; United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S; 196; Kelly v. City of Pittsburg, 104 U. S. 78;
Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U.S. 409.
Mr. Milton D. Purdy, Assistant to the Attorney General,
for defendant in error:
Administrative process which. has been regarded. as necessary by the Government-and sanctioned by long usage, is as
much due process of lavi as any other. Wulzen v. San Francisco, 101 California, 15; Attorney General v. Jochin, 99 Michigan, 358; Eames v. Savage, 77 Maine, 212; Holmes v. Seeley,
19 Wend. 507; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2.
Due process of law does not. necessarily require that a
judicial hearing shall be accorded before any preliminary action
can be taken by the administrative officers of the Government
which may result in a temporary deprivation of certain rights
of a citizen. If the law contemplates that the citizen whose

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204. U. S.

377

Opinion of the Court.

rights are 'affected by certain administrative acts and processes
Shall -finally be accorded an opportunity to have those rights
passed upon in a judicial proceeding, then and ifi such a case
due process of law has not been denied within the meaning
of the Constitution. Murray's Lessee v., Hoboken Land Co.,.
'18 How. 272.
r
While it is manifest that a law cannot withdraw from
judicial determination a controversy with respect to private
rights which from its nature is the subject of a suit at common
law, or in'equity, or in admiralty,: it is likewise clear that in
respect to matters involving public rights as distinguished from
private rights the legislature may provide that .so far as the
determination of facts is concerned that the action of the administrative officers may be made final and conclusive. Kennedy.v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673; United
States v' Knox, 102 U. S. 422; Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. S.
684; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Public Clearing
House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497.
This law does not operate to take private property for public
use within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution. New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 197 U. S. 453; C., B. .& Q. Ry. Co. v. Drainage
•Com 'rs,, 200 U. S. 561; West Chicago R. R. v. Chicago, 201,
U. S. 50.
Section 18, under which the plaintiff in error was convicted,
does not delegate to the Secretary of War legislative or judicial
powers. Buttfield.v..Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Field v. Clark,
143 U S.'649.
MR.- JUSTICE HARLAN, after'making the foregoing statement, delivered. the, opinion of the court.
The 'first principal question raised by the defendant is
whether the 18th section of the River and Harbor Act of
March 3d, 1899," is in violation of the Constitution of. the
United States as delegating legislative and judicial powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.
S

204 U. S.

to the head of ah. Executive Department of the'Government
This question, t he Government contends, has been determined
in its favor by the principles heretofore announced by this
court, and need not be discussed as"if now presented for the
first tirne. In its judicial as well as legal aspects the question
is of such importance as to justify a full reference to prior
decisions.
The earliest case is that of The Brig Auroraj 7 Cranch, 382,
which involved the question whether Congress could make
the revival of -a law (which had ceased to be in force) depend
upon the existence of certain facts to be ascertained by the
President and set forth in a proclamation by him. The
court said: "We can. see no sufficient reason why the legislature should- not exercise its discretion ir reviVing the act
of March 1st, 1809, either expressly or conditionally.as their,
judgment -should direct. The 19th section of that act, declaring that it should. continue 'in force -to a certain time, and
no longer, could not restrict their power of extending its
operation without limitation upon the occurrence of any subsequent combination of events." Roferring to this language,
we said in the subsequent case' of Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649, 683: "This certainly is a decision that it was competent
for Congress to make the revival. of an act depend upon the
proclamation of the President, showing the. ascertainment
by. him of the fact that the edicts of certain nations had been
so revoked or modified that they did not violate the neutral
commerce .of the United States. The same principle would
apply in .the case of the suspensi'n of an act upon a contingency to be ascertained by the President and Made known
by his Proclamation."
'In Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 43, 45, 46, Chief Justice Marshall delivc~ing the unanimous judgment, of the-court,
said that although Congress could not deleate to the courts
or to ,any other tribunals powers strictly. and 'exclusively
legislative, and although the line had not been .exactly drawn
that separates the important subjects which must be eritirely

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
"204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

regulated by the legislature itself from those of less interest
"in which a general provision may be made, and powers given
to those who are to act under -such general provisions to fill up
'the details,' yet "Congress may certainly delegate to others
powers which the legislature may rightly exercise itself,'.' and
"the maker of thelaw may commit something to the discretion
of the other departments."
In Field v. Clark, just cited, 143 U. S. 649, 680, 683, 691,
692, the question arose as to" the constitutionality of that
section of the McKinley Tariff Act of 1890 which provided
for the imposition, in a named contingency (to be determined
by the President and manifested by his proclamation), of
duties upon sugar, molasses and other specified articles, which
the act had placed in the free list.- By that section it was
declared that "with. a view to secure reciprocal trade with
countries producing, the -following articles, and -for this purpose, on and after the first day. of January, eighteen hundred
and'ninety-two, whenever, and so often as the President shall
be satisfied that the governient of any. country producing
and exporting-sugars, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, raw. and
uncured, or any of such articles, imposes duties or other exactions upon the agricultural or other products of the United
States, which in view of, the free introduction of such sugar,
molasses, coffee, tea'and hides into the United States he may
deem- to -be reciprocally unequal and unreasonable, he shall
have the power and it shall be his dfuty to suspend, by proclamation to that effect, the provisions of this act relating to the free
introduction of such sugar,. molasses, coffee, tea and hides, the
production of, such country, for. such time as he shall deem
just, and -in such case and during such suspension-dutibs shall
be-levied; collected and paid-upon sugar, molasses, coffee, tea
and hides, the product of or exportatipon from such designated.
country as follows, namely." Here follows in the act proVisions indicating the particular duties to be. collected, after
the President's proclamation, upon sugars, molasses, coffee,
tea, hides, etc. It was conten(led in the Field case that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

above section, so far as it authorized the President, to suspend
by proclamation the provisions of the act relating to the free
introduction of sugar, molasses, coffee, etc., was unQonstitutional, as delegating to him both legislative and treaty-making
'powers. In its consideration of this question the court, after
referring to the case of the Brig Aurora, above cited, examined the numerous precedents in legislation showing to what
extent the suspension of certain provisions and the going into
operation of other provisions of an act of Congress had been
made to depend entirely upon the finding or ascertainment by
the President of certain facts, to be made known by his proclamation. The acts of Congress which underwent examinatiohl
by the court are noted in the margin.' The result of that
examination of legislative precedents was thus stated: "The
authority given to the President by the act of June 4, 1794, to
lay an embargo on all ships and vessels in the ports of the
United States, 'whenever, in his opinion, the public safety
shall so require,' and under regulations, to be continued or
revoked, 'whenever he shall think proper;' by the act of February 9, 1799, to remit and discontinue, for the time being,
the restraints and prohibitions which Congress had prescribed
with respect to-commercial ' intercourse with the French Republic, 'if he shall deem it expedient and consistent with the
interest.of the United States,' and 'to revoke such order,
whenever, in his opinion, the interest of, the United States shall
require;' by the act of December 19, 1806, to suspend, for a
named time, the operation of the non-importation act of the
same year, 'if in his judgment the public interest should require it;' by the act of May 1, 1810, to revive a former act,
as to Great Britain or France, if either country had not by a
1 Act of June 13th, 179 ,c. 53, 1 Stat. 565, 566;.of February 9th, 1799, c. 2,
1 Stat. 613, of April 18th, 1806, c. 29, 2 Stat; 379; of December 19th,
1806, c. 1., 2 Stat. 411; of March 3d, 1815, c. 77, 3 Stat. 224; of March 3d,
1817, c. 39, 3 Stat. 361; of January 7th, 1824, c. 4, 4 Stat. 3; of May 24th,
1828, c. 111, 4 Stat. 308; of May 31st, 1830, c. 219, 4 Stat. '425; of
August 5, 1854, c. 269, 10 Stat. 587; 11 Stat. 790; of March 6th, 1866, c. 12,
14.Stat. 3; 26 Stat. 616, c. 1244; of Act June 26th, 1884, c. 121, 23 Stat. 57.

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

named day so revoked or modified its edicts as not 'to violate
the neutral commerce of the United States;' by the acts of
March 3, 1815, and May. 31, 1830, to declare the repeal, as to
any foreign nation, of the several acts imposing duties on the
tonnage of ships and vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandise imported into the United States, when he should be
'satisfied' that the discriminating duties of such foreign nations, 'so far as they operate to the disadvantage of the United
States,' had been abolished; by the act of- March 6, 1866, to
declare the provisions, of the act forbidding the importation
into this country of neat cattle and the hides of neat cattle,
to be inoperative, 'whenever in his judgment' their importation 'may be made without danger of the introduction or
spread of contagious or infectious disease among the cattle of
the'United States;' must be regarded as unwarranted by the
Constitution, if the contention of the appellants, in respect to'
the'third section of the-act of October 1, 1890, be sustained."
Touching the general, question the court said: "That Congress cannot delegate legislative power to the President is a
principle universally recognized 'as vital to the integrity and
maintenance of the system of government ordained by the
Constitution. The act of October 1, 1890, in the particular
,under. consideration, is not inconsistent vhith that principle.
It does not, in any real Sense, invest the President with the
power of legislation. For the purpose of securing reciprocal
trade with countries producing and exporting sugar, molasses,
coffee, tea and hides, Congress itself determined that the provisions of the act of October 1, 1890, permitting the free introduction of such articles, should be suspended as to any
country producing and exporting them that imposed exactions
and duties on the agricultural and other products of the
United States, which the President deemed, that is, which he
found to- be, reciprocally unequal and unreasonable. Congress
itself prescribed, in advance, the duties to be levied, coll.ected
and paid, on sugar, molasses, coffee, tea or hides, produced by
or exported from such designated country, while the suspension

OCTOBER TERM, 1906._
Opinion of the C6urt.

204 U. S.

lasted. Nothing involving the expediency or the just operation of such legislation was left to the determination of the
President. The words, 'he may deem,' in the third section,
of course, implied that the President would examine the commercial regulations of other countries producing and exporting
sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, and form a judgment
as to whether they were reciprocally equal and reasonable, or
the contrary, in their effect upon American products. But
when he ascertairned the fact that duties and-exactions, reciprocally urequal and unreasonable, were imposed upon the
agricultural or other products of the United States by a country
producing and exporting -sugar, molasses, coffee,. tea or hides,
it became his duty to issue a proclamation declaring the suspension, as to that country, which Congress had determined
should occur. He had no discretion in the premises except.
in respect to the duration of the suspension so ordered. But
that related only to the enforcement of the policy established
by Congress. As the suspension was absolutely required when
the President ascertained: the existence of a particular fact, it
cannot be said that in ascertaining that fact and in issuing his
proclamation, in obedience to the legislative will, he exercised
the function of making laws. Legislative power was exercised
when Congress declared that the suspension should take effect
upon a named contingency. ' What the President was required
,-to lo was simply in execution of the act of .Congress. It was
not the making of law. He was ,themere agent 'of the lawmaking department to ascertain and declare the event upon
which its expressed will was to take effect., It was a-part of
the law itself as it left the hands of Congress that the provisions, full and complete in themselves, permitting the free
introduction of sugars, molasses, coffee, tea and hides,, from
particular countries, -should 'be suspended, in a given contingency, and that in case of such suspensions certain duties
should be imposed.'.' Again- "'The true distinction,' as
Judge 'Ranney speaking for: the, Supreme Court of Ohio has
well said, 'is between the, delegation of power to make the law,

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

383

Opinion-of the Court.

which necessarily involves. a discretion as to what it shall be
and co0iferring authority or discretion as to its execution, t6
be exercised zunder and. in pursuance of the law. The first
cannot,be done; to the latter no valid objection car be made.'
Cincinnati,Wilmington &c. Railroad v. Commissioners, .1 Ohio
St. 77. .In Moers v. 'City-of. Reading, 21 Pa. St. 188, .202,
the'language of the court was 'Half the statutes on our books
are in the -alternative, depending on the discretion ofs.ome
person or persons to whom is confided the duty. of determining
whether the proper occasion exists for executing them. But
it cannot be aid' that- the exercise of such discretion is the
making of the law.' So, in Locke's Appeal, 72 Pa. St. 491,
.498: 'To assert that a law is less than a law, because it is made
to depend on a future event or act, is to rob the legislature of
the power to act wisely for the public-welfare whenever a law:
is passed relating to a state of affairs not yet developed, or to
things future and impossible to fully know.' The proper distinction the court said was-this: 'The legislature cannot dele.
gate its power to make a law; but it can make a law to delegate
a power to determine some fact or~stat of things upon which
the law makes, or intends to make, its. own action.depend.
To deny this Woulc[ be to stop the wheels of govetnment.
There are many things upon which wise and useful legislation'
.-must depend which cannot be' known to the law-making power,
and imust," therefore, be a subject of inquiry and determination
outside of the halls of legislation.' What has been said is
equally' applicable to the .objection that the third section 'of
the act invests the President'with treaty-making power. The
codrt is of the opinion that the third section of the act of
*October 1, 1890, is not liable to the objection that it .transfers
legislative and treaty-making 1ower to the President.".
The latest case bearing on the general question is Buttfield
v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 486. That case involved the'
constitutionality of the act of' Congress of March 2, 1897, 29
Stat. 604, c. 358, relating to the "importations of impure and
unwholesome tea.' The act provided for the
appointment by

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

.204 U. S.

the Secretary of the Treasury of a board of seven tea experts,
who should. prepare and submit to him standard samples of
that article. One section of the act provided: "That the
Secretary of the Treasury, upon the recommendation of the
said board, shall fix and establish uniform standards of purity,'
quality, and fitness for consumption. of all kinds of teas imported into the United States, and shall procure and deposit
in the custom-houses of the ports of New York, Chicago, San
Francisco, and such other ports as he may determine, duplicate
samples of such standards; that said Secretary shill procure
a sufficient number of other du plicate samples of such standards to supply .the importers and dealers in tea at all ports
desiring the same at cost. All teas, or merchandise described
as tea, of inferior purity, quality, and fitness for consumption
to such standards shall be deeme.d within the prohibition of
the first section hereof." In that case it was contendel that
the act was unconstitutional, as making the right to import
tea depend upon the arbitrary action of the Secretary of the.
Treasury and a board appointed by him; as excluding from
import wholesome, genuine and unadoulterated tea; and, as
discriminating uifequally in the admission of the different
kinds of teas for import, as Well as in the right to sell and
purchase that: article. The act conferred,it was objected, upon
the Secretary and the board the uncontrolled power of fixing
standards of purity, quality and fitness for consumption, and
thus to prescribe arbitrarily What teas may be imported and
dealt in. *The question of constitutional law so.i-raised was
thus disposed of by the court: "The claim that the statute
commits to the arbitrary discretion of the Secretary of the
Treasury the determination of what teas may be imported,
and therefore in effect vests that official with legislative power,
is without merit. We are of opinion that the statute, when
properly construed, as said by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
but expresse6 the purpose to exclude the lowest grades of tea,
whether demonstrably of inferior purity' or, unfit for constimption, or presumably so because of their inferior quality.

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

This, in effect, was the fixing of a primary standard, and (tcvolved upon the Secretary of the Treasury the mere executive
duty to effectuate the legislative policy declared in the statute.
The case is within the principle of Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649, whcre it was decided that th6 third section of the tariff
act of October 1, 1890, was not repugnant to the Constitution
as conferring legislative and treaty-making power on the
Presideit, because it authorized him to suspend the provisions
of the act relating tolthe free introduction of sugar, molasses,
coffee', tea and hides. We may say of the legislation in this
case, as was said of the legislation consideredin. Field v. Clark,
that 'it does not, in any real sense, invest' administrative
officials with the power-of legislation. Congress legislated on
the subject as far as was reasonably practicable, and from
the necessities of the case was compelled to leave to executiv
officials the duty of bringing about the result pointed out by
the statute. To deny the power of Congress to delegate such
a duty would, in effect, amount but to declaring that-' the
plenary power .vested in Congress to regulate foreign commerce'could not be efficaciously exerted."
It would seem too clear to admit of serious doubt that the
statute under which the Secretary of War proceeded is in
entire harmony with the principles announced in former cases.
In no substantial, just sense (toes it confer upon that officer
as the head of an Executive Department powers strictly legislative or judicial in their nature, or which must be exclusively
exercised by Congress' or by the courts. It has long beenf the
policy of the Government to remove such unreasonable' obstructions to the free navigation of the waterways of the
United States as were caused by bridges maintained over them.
That such an object was of common interest and within the
competency of Congress, under its power to regulate commerce, everyone must admit; for commerce comprebepds
navigation, and therefore. to free navigation from unreasonable
obstructions is a legitimate exertion of that power. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189, 190. As appropriate to the object,
voL. cciv-25

OCTOBER .TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U.S.

to be accomplished, as a meafis to- an end within the power
of the National Government, Congress, 'in' execution of a declared policy, committed to the Secretary of War'the'duty of
ascertaining all the, facts essential in any inquiry- whether
particular bridges, .over the waterways 'of-the' United States,
were unreasonable obstructions to free navigation. Beyond
question, if it had so elected, Congres's, in some effective mode
and without previous investigation through' Executive officers,
could have determined for itself, primarily, the fact whether.
the bridge- here in -question was an unreasonable obstruction.
to navigation, and, if it was -found to be., of that character,
could by direct legislation have 'required 'the defendant to
make such alterations of its bridge as were. requisite 'for the
protection of navigation and commerce over the waterway
in question. But 'investigations by Congress, as to each
particular bridge alleged to constitute an unreasonable obstruction to free navigation and'direct legislation covering each
case, separately, would be impracticable in view of the vast
and varied interests which require National legislation from
iime to time. By the statute in question Congress declared
in effect that navigation s'hotld be freed from unreasonable
obstructions. arising from bridges'of insufficient height, width
of span or other defects.. It stopped, however, with this'
declarationi of a general. rule and imposed upon the Secretary
of War the duty of ascertaining what particular cases- came
within the rule prescribed by Congress,- as well.as the duty

of enforcing the rule in such cases. In performing, that duty
the Secretary of 'War will only-execute the clearly expressed
will of Congress, and will not, in any true sense, exert legislative or judicial power. He could not be said' to exercise
strictly legislative or judicial power any more, for instance,
than it could be said that Executive officers exercise such
power when, upon inivestigationl,. they ascertain: whether a
particular applicant for a pension belongs to a class of persons
who, under the general rules prescribed by Congress, are entitled' to pensions. If the'principle for which the defendant

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contends received our approval the conclusion could not be
avoided that Executive officers, in all the Departments, in
carrying out the -will of Congress, as expressed in statutes
enacted by it, have, from the foundation of the National
Government, exercised and are now exircising powers, as to
mere details, that are strictly legislative or' judicial in their
nature. This will be apparent upon an examiination of the
various statutes that confer authority upon Executive Departments in respect, of the enforcement of the laws of the
United States. Indeed, it is not too much to say that a denial
to Congress of the right, under the Constitution, to delegate
the power to determine some fact or the state of things upon
which the enforcement of its enactment depends would be
"to stop the wheels of government" and, bring about confusion, if not paralysis, in the conduct of the public business.
To this may be added the consideration that Congress, by
the act of 1899, did not invest the Secretary of War With any
power in these matters that could reaspnably be chatacterized
as arbitrary. He' cannot act in reference to any bridge alleged
to--be an unreasonable obstruction to free navigation without
first giving the parties an opportun'ity to be hdard. He cannot require any' bridge of that character to be altered, even
for the purpose of rendering navigation through or under. it'
reasonably free, easy and unobstructed, without giving previous
notiqe to the persons or corporations owning or controlling the
bridge, specifying the changes recommended, by, the Chief of
Engineers, and allowing a reasonable time in which to make
them. If, at the end of such time, the required alterations
have not been made, then the Secretary is ,required to bring
the matter to the attention of the United States District
Attorney in order that criminal proceedings may be instituted
to enforce the act of Congress. In the present case all the
provisions- of the statute were complied with. The parties
concerned were duly notified and were fully heard. Nor is
there any reason to say that the Secretary of War 'was not
entirely justified, if not compelled, by the evidence in finding

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the'Court.

204 U. S.

that the bridge in question was an unreasonable obstruction
to commerce and navigation as now conducted.
We are of. opinion that the act in question i& not unconstitutional as conferring upon the Secretary of War powers of
such nature that they could'not be delegated to him- by Congress.
The next -principal -contention of, the Bridge Company is
that the act of 1899 is unconstitutional, in that it makes no
provision, and the United States has not offered, to compensate
it for the sum that will necessarily be expended in order to
make the alterations or changes icquired by the order of the
Secretary of War. In other words, the defendant insists, that
what, the United States requires to be done in respect of defendant's bridge is a taking of private property for public
use, which the Government is forbidden by the Constitution
to do without making just compensation to, or without making
provision to justly compensate, the owner. Stating the question in another way, the contention is, in, effect, that even if
the United States did not expressly assent to the construction
of this bridge as it is, and even if the bridge has become an
unreasonable, obstruction to the free navigation of the waterway in question, the exertion of the power of the United States
to regulate commerce among the States is subject to the fundamental condition that it cannot require the defendant,
whose bridge 'was lawfully constructed, to make any alterations however necessary to secure free navigation, without
paying or securing to it compensation for the 'reasonable cost
of such alterations,.
The propositions are combatted by the Government, which
contends thatthe alterations or changes required to secure
navigation against an unreasonable obstruction is not a taking
of private property for public use within the meaning of the
Constitution, and that the cost of such alterations or changes
are to be deemed incidental only to the exercise of an undoubted function of the United States, when exerting, through
Congress, its power to regulate commerce among 'the States,

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and therefore navigation upon the waterways on and over
which such commerce is conducted.
It Would seemclear 'that this issue has likewise been determined by the principles announced in the previous cases
of this court. Let us see whether such be the fact.
A leading case upon this subject is Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269, 271 et seq. Congress, by'the River and Harbor Acts of 1884 and 1886, 23 Stat. 133,147, 24 Stat. 316, 327,
authorized and directed the improvement of the Ohio River,
and made appropriations, to effect' that object. Under the
authority of the Secretary of War, and the Engineer Corps
of the Army, a dike was constructed in that river for the
purpose of concentrating the water-flow in the main channel
of the river, near Neville Island. The dike began at a certain
point on the .island. Its construction substantially destroyed
the landing on and in front of a farm, owned by Mrs. Gibson,
on that island-preventing, during most of the year, free
egress and ingress from and to such farm to the main or navigable channel of the river. At the time of the construction
of-the dike that farm was in a high state of cultivation, well
improved with a dwelling house, barn and outbuildings. It
had a frontage of a thousand feet on the main navigable
channel, and the owner had a landing there which was used
in the shipping of products from and supplies to her farm,
and was the only one from which such products and supplies
could be shipped. Before the construction of the dike the
farm, by reason of the use to which it was put, was worth
six hundred dollars per acre. The obstruction caused by
the dike reduced its value to one hundred and fifty- or two
hundred dollars per acre, resulting in damages to the owner
in excess of three thousand dollars. Suit was brought against
the United States in the Court of Claims to recover such
damages. .That court found as a conclusion of law that the
owner was not entitled to recover.
The Chief Justice of this court, delivering its unanimous
judgment, said' "All navigable waters are under -the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 196
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

trol of the United States for the purpose of regulating and.
improving navigation, and although the title to the shore
and submerged soil is in the various 'States and individual
owners under them, it is always subject to, the servitude in
respect of navigation created in,favor of the Federal government by 'the Constitution., South Carolina v. Georgia,
93 U. S. 4; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Eldridge v. Trezevant,,, 160, U. S. 452,", After referring to several- adjudged
cases. the cou'rt proceeded, "The Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United-States provides that private prop erty shall not 'be taken for public'use without just coipensation.' Here, however, the damage 'of which Mrs. Gibson
complained was not the result of the taking of any part of
.her. property, whether-upland or submerged, or a direct invasion-thereof, but the incidental consequence of the lawful
and proper exercise of a governmental power. The applicable
princFple is expounded in Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99
U S. 635: In 'that ca'e, plaintiff being an owner of land
situated at the intersection of La Salle street, in .Chicago,
with the Chicago River, upon whiclh it had valuable dock
and warehouse accommodations, 'with a numerous line of
steamers accustomed, to land'at that dock, was interrupted
in his use thereof by the building of a tunnel under theCbicago
River ,by authority of the state legislature, in accomplishng.
which work it was necessary'to tear up La Salle Street, which
precluded plaintiff from.access 't6 his' property for a consider%ble,time; also to build aI coffer dam in -the Cqicago .River,
which excluded his vessels from access to his docks; and such
an.'injury was. held to be darhnum absque injuria. The court
said, again speaking 'through Mr. Justice Strong: 'But acts
done in the 'proper exercise of governmental powers, and not
directly encroaching upon;- private .property,' though' their
consequences may impair its use, are universally held not to
be a. taking -within the meaning of -the constitutional provigion. They do not entitle the owner of such property to
compensation froni :the State or its agents, or give hinm any

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

This is supported by an immense weight of

right of action.
authority.

.

.

.

Moreover, riparian, ownership is subject

to the obligation -to suffer the consequences of the improvement of navigation in the exercise of the dominant right of
the Government in that regard. The legislative authority
for these works consisted simply in an appropriation for their
construction, but this was an assertion of a right belonging
to the Government, to which riparian property was subject,
and not of a right to appropriate private property, not burdened with such servitude, to public purposes. In short,
the damage resulting from the prosecution of this improvement of a navigable highway, for the public good, was not
the result of a taking of appellant's property, and was merely
incidental to the exercise of a servitude to which her property
'had always been subject."
. The Gibson case was referred to with approval in Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S.141, 153, 162. The latter case involved the question whether the owner of land on the St.
Mary's River in Michigan was entitled, under the Constitution
of the United States, to be compensated for the injury or
damage done him, as a riparian owher, by certain work done
in that river under the authority of the United States. The
controlling question was whether tie prohibition in the Con:stitution of the United States of the taking of private property for public use without just compensation has any application to the case of an owner of; land bordering on a public
navigable river whose access from his land to navigability
is permanently lost by reason of the construction of a- pier
resting on submerged lands in front of his upland, and which
pier was erected by the United States for the purpose only
of improving the navigation of sich river. After observing
that when that which is done amounts, within the meaning
of the Constitution, to a taking of private property for public
use, and that Congress may not, in the exercise of its power
to regulate commerce, override the provision for just compensation when I)rivate property is so taken, the court entered

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion .f the Court.

204 U. S.

upon .areview of some of the,.,adjudged cases. Among.other
things it*said: "All the cases concur inholding that the power
of Congress to regulate commerce, and therefore navigation,.
is paramount,, and is unrestricted except by the limitations
upon its -authority by the Constitution. Of course, every
part of the Constitution is as binding upon Congress as upon
the people.. The guiarantees prescribed 'by it for the security
of. private property musftbe respected by all. But'whether
navigation upon waters over which Congress may exert its
authority 'requires improvement at all, or improvement in a
particu~ar..way, are matters wholly within its discretion;
and' the judiciary is without power to control or defeat the
will of Congress, so long .as that branch of 'the.Government
does not transcend the limits established by the supreme law
of the land. Is, the broad, power with which Congress is in-,
vested burdened with the condition that a riparian owner
whose, ladd borders uporf a navigable water of the United
States shall be compensated for his right of access to navigability whenever such right ceases to be of value in consequence
of the improvement of navigation by means of piers 'resting
upon submerged lands away .from the shore line? We think'
not." "The primary use,!' -the court said,' '-of 'the waters'
and the lands under them is for purposes of navigation, and
the erection. of piers in them to. improve navigation for the
ptiblic is entirely, consistent with such.use, and infringes no.
right 'of the riparian owner. Whatever 'the- nature of the
interest of. a riparian owner in the submerged lands in front
'of his upland bordering -on a,public naVigable water, his title
is not as full and complete as, his title to fast land. Which has
no direct ionnection with the navigation of. such water. It
is:a, qualified' title, a bare technical title, 'not at, his absolute
disposal, as ighis upland, but to -be held at all times subordinate to such use.of'the submerged lands and of the waters
flowing over them as may be',consistent with ore demanded
by 'the public right f navigation. In Lorman v. Benson, 8
Michigan, 18,. 22, the 'Supreme Court of Michigan,, speaking

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by Justice Campbell, declared the right of navigation to be one
to which all others were subservient.

.

.

But the con-

tention is that compensation must be made for the loss of the
plaintiff's access from his upland to navigability incidentally
resulting from the occupancy of the submerged lands, even
if the construction and maintenance of a pier resting upon
them be necessary or valuable in the proper improvement of
navigation. We cannot assent to this view" If the riparian
owner cannot enjoy access to navigability because of the
improvement of navigation by the construction away from
the shore line of works in a public navigable river or water,
and if such right of access ceases alone for that reason to be
of value, there is not, within the meaning of the Constitution,
a taking of private property for public use, but only a consequential injury to a right which must be enjoyed, as was said
in the Yates case, 'in due subjection to the rights of the publie'-an injury. resulting incidentally from the exercise of a
governmental power for the benefit of the general public,
and from which no duty arises to make or secure compensation
to the riparian owner. The riparian owner acquired the
right of access to navigability subject to the contingency
that such right might become valueless in consequence of the
erection under competent authority of structures on the
submerged lands in front of his property for the purpose of
improving navigation. When erecting the pier in question,
the Government had no object in view. except, in the interest
of the public, to improve navigation. It was not designed
arbitrarily or capriciously to destroy rights belonging to any
riparian owner. What was done was manifestly necessary
to meet the demands of international and interstate commeree." The court further said: "In our opinion, it.was not
intended that the paramount authority of Congress to improve
the navigation of the public navigable waters of the United
States should be crippled by compelling the Government to
make compensation for the injury to a riparian owner's right
of access to navigability that nlight incidentally result from

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an improvement ordered by Congress. The subject with
which ,Congress. dealt was navigation. That which was
sought to be accomplished was simply to improve navigation
on the waters in question so as to meet the wants of the vast
commerce passing and to pass over them. Consequently
the agents designated to perform the work ordered or authorized by Congress.had the right to proceed in all proper
Ways without taking into account the .injury, that might.
possibly or indirectly result from, such work to the right' of
access by riparian owners to navigability .

..

We are of

opinion that the court below correctly held that the plaintiff
had no such right of property in the submerged lands on
question rests as entitles him, -under the
which the pier in,
Constitution, to be compensated for any loss of access from
his- upland to navigability. resulting from the erection and
maintenance of such pier by the United Stateg in order to
improve and which manifestly did improve- the navigation
of a public navigable water."
In New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Comm., 197
U. S.453, 461,.,462, it appeared that, under contract with the
City of New Orleans, and at its own- expense, the Gas Light
Company had lawfully laid its pipes at certain. places in the
public ways and streets of that- city. Subsequently, the
Drainage Commission of New Orleans adopted a plan for the
drainage of the city, which made it necessary to change the
location in some places 'of the 'mains and pipes theretofore
laid by the Gas Light Company. That company contended
that to, require such changes was a taking-of its property for
public use for which it was entitled, under the Constitution,
to compensation. That view was rejected by 'this court.
We said: "The gas company "did not acquire any specific
location in the streets; it was content with the general right
to use, them, and when it located its pipes it' Was at the risk
that they might be, at some future time, disturbed, whdn
the State*.might require for a necessary public use that changes
in location be made. ,. . . The need of occupation of the

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

soil beneath the streets in cities is constantly increasing,
for the supply. of water and light and the construction. of
systems of sewerage and drainage, and eyery reason of public
policy requires that grants of rights in such sub-surface shall
be held subject-to such reasonable regulation as the public
health and-safety may require. There is nothing in the grant
to the gas company, even if it- could legally be done, undertaking to limit the right of the State- to establish a system
of drainage in the streets.We think whatever right the gas.
company acquired was subject in so far as the location of its
pipes was concerned, to such future regulations as might be
required in the interest of the public'health and welfare. These
views are amply.,sustained by the authorities. National
Water Works Co. v. City of Kansas, 28 Fep. Rep. 921, in which
the opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit.
Judge; Gas Light & Coke Co. v. Columbus, 50 Ohio St. 65;
Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Co. v. Brookline, 121 Massachusetts,
5; In re Deering, 93 N. Y. 361; Chicago, Burlington &c. R. R.
Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 254. In the,-latter case it was
held that uncompensated obedience to a regulation enacted
for the public safety under the police power of the State was
not taking property 'without due compensation. In our
view, that is all there is to this case. The gas company, by
its grant from the city, acquired no exclusive right to the
location of its pipes in the streets, as chosen by it, under a
general grant of authority to use the streets. The city made
no contract that the gas company should not be disturbed in
the location chosen. In the exercise of the police power of
the State, for a purpose highly necessary in the promotion of
the public health, it has become necessary to change the location of the pipes of the gas company so as to. accommodate
them to the new public work. In complying with, this requirement at its own expense none of the property of the gas company has been taken, and the injury -sustainej is damnuM
absqute injuria."
In C., B. &.Q. R. R. Co. v. DrainageCon'rs, 200 U. S.561,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

582, 593-595, the above cases were cited with approval, and
the principles announced in them were applied against a railway company owning a bridge that had been lawfully constructed by it over a non-navigable creek running through
certain swamp or slough lands which the Drainage Commissioners were required .by statute to (train in order to make them
tillable and fit for cultivation. The Comnissioners in executing the work of draining found it necessary that the creek over
which the, railway bridge was constructed should be deepened
and enlarged, and a greater opening made under the bridge
for the passage pf the increased -amount of water caused by
the deepening -and enlarging of the bed of the creek. The
railway compahy was required, at its own cost, to construct
such. a bridge over the creek as would meet the necessities of
the situation as it was or wouhl be under the drainage plan of
the Commissioners. The company refused to obey the order.
The contention of the railway company was that as the bridge
was lawfully constructed under -its general.,corporate powers,
and as the depth and width of the channel under'it Were sufficient, at the-time,to carry off the water of the creekas it then

and subsequently, flowed, tile founda'tion of the bridge could
not be removed' and its use of the, bridge disturbed, unless
compensationbe first made or secured.to the company in such
amount as would be sufficient to meet the expense of removing
the timbers-and stones from the creek and.of constructing a
new bridge of such length and with uch opening under it aq
the plan of the Commissioners would make necessary. The
company insisted'that. to require&it to meet these expenses
out of its own funds would'be within the mcahing of the Constitution a taking of its property for pul)lic use without corn-,
pensation, an(l, ti(refore, without due process of law. The
court, after a review of authmoiities, said: "The.constitutional
requiremem o que process oi raw, xv!hcfi~traces compensation for private property taken for public use, applies in every
case of the exertion of governmental power. If in the executioj of any power, no matter what it is, the Government,

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Federal or state, finds it necessary to-take private property for
public use, it must obey the constitutional injunction t6 make
or secure just compensation to the owner. Cherokee Nation
v. SouthernNKansas Railway,, 135 U. S. 641, 659; 'Sweet v.
Rechel, 159 U. S. 380,,399, 402; Monongahela Nay. Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445. If the means employed have no real substantial
relation to public objects which government may legally accomplish; if they are arbitrary and unreasonable, beyond the
necessities oftthe case, the judiciary.will disregard mere forms
and interfere for the protection of rights injuriously affected
by such illegal action. The authority of the courts to interfere
in such cases is beyond all doubt. Minnesota v. Barber, 136
U. S. 313, 320. Upon the general subject there is no real
conflict among the adjudged cases. Whatever conflict there
is arises upon the question whether there has been or will be
in the particular case, within the 'true meaning of the Constitution, a 'taking' of private property for public use. If the
injury complained of is only incidental to the legitimate exercise of governmental powers for the public good, then there
is no taking of property for the public use, and a right to com-'
pensation, on account of such injury, does not attach under the
Constitution. Such is the present case." The opinion concluded: "Without further discussion we hold it to be the duty
of the railway company, at its own expense, to remove from
the creek the present bridge, culvert, timbers and stones
placed there by it, and also- (unless it abandons-or surren~ders.
its right to cross the crck at or in the viciinity of the present
crossing) to erect at its own expense and nmaintain a new
bridge for crossing that will (onfoinn to the regulations established by the.lDraia-ge ('hoiissi ).m , under the authority of
the State; anid such a rc(luirelclnt if enforced will not amount

to a taking of privat property for public use within the meaning of.the Constitutioi, nor to a denial of the equal protection
of the laws."
The latest adjudication by -this court was in WVest Chicago

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Street Railroad v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506, 524. In that case
the principal question related to the duty of a street railroad
company, which had lawfully constructed a tunnel under the
Chicago River, to obey an ordinance of the city, requiring the
company, at its own cost and expense, to lower its tunnel, so as
to provide for a certain.. depth under it, which had been ascertained by competent Federal aid local authority to. be necessary for the increased demands of navigation. , This court held
upon the adjudged cases that the rights of the company, as the
owner of the fee of the land, on eithetside of the river or inits
bed, were subject to the paramount right of navigati6 n over the
waters of the river. It said: "If, then, the right of the railroad
company to have and maintain a tunnel under the, Chicago
*river is subject 7to the paramount public right of -navigation-;
if its right to maintain a tunnel in, the river is a qualified one,
because subject to the specific condition in the act- of 1874
that no tunnel should 'intqrrupt navigation; if the present
tunnel is an obstruction to navigation, as -upon this record we
must take it to be; and if the city, as representing the'State
and public, may rightfully 'insist that such 'obstruction shall
not longer reirain in the way of free navigation; it necessarily
follows that the railway company is- under a duty to comply
with the demand made' upon it to remove, at its-own 'expense,
"the obstruction which itself has created and maintains. ,If
the obstruction cannot be -removed except.by lowering the
tunnel to the required depth and (if a tunnel' is to be maintained) providing one that will not interrupt navigation, then
the cost 6ttendant upon uch work must be met by the company. The city asks nothing more than that the railroad
company shall do what is necessary to"free navigation from an
obstruction for which it is responsible, and (if it intends not
to abandon its right to maintain a, tunnel at or near Van Buren
street) that it shall itself provide a new tunnel with the necessary depth of water above it." .Again: "In the case before us
the public demands nothing to be done' by the railroad company except to remove the- obstructibn which itself placed and

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

maintains in the river under the condition that navigation
should not at any time be thereby interrupted.. The removal
of such obstruction is hll that is needed to protect navigation.
So that whatever cost attends the removal of the obstruction
must be borne by the railroad company. The condition under
which the company placed its tunnel in the river being met by
the company; the public has no, further demands upon it.
This cannot be deemed a taking of private property for public
use or a denial of the equal protection of laws within the neaning of the Constitution, but is only the result of the lawful
exercise of a governmental power for the common good. This
appears from the authorities cited in Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R.'Co. v. Drainage Corn'rs, supra, just cited. The
state court has well said that to maintain the navigable character of the stream in a lawful way is not, within the meaning
of the law, the taking of private property or any property
right of the owner of the soil under the river, such ownership
being subject to the right of free and unobstructed navigation.
People v. West Chicago Street R. R. Cd., 203 Illinois, 551, 557.
What the city asks, and all that it asks, is that the railroad
company be required,' in the exercise of its rights and in the
use of its property, to respect the public needs as declared by
competent authority, upon reasonable grounds, to exist. This
is not an arbitrary or unreasonable demand. It does not, in
any legal sense, take or appropriate the company's property
for the public benefit, but only insists that the company shall
not use its property so as to interrupt navigation."
Do the principles announced in, the above cases require us
to hold, in the present case, that the making of the alterations
of.its bridge specified in the order of the Secretary of War will.
be a taking of the property of the. Bridge Company for public
use? We think not. Unless there be a taking, within the
meaning of the Constitution, no obligation arises upon the
United States to make compensation for the cost to be incurred in making such' alterations. The damage that will
accrue to the Bridge Company,- as the result of compliane

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

with the Secretary's order, must, in such case, be deemed incidental to the exercise by the Government of its power to
regulate conmere among the States; which includes, as we
have seen, the power to secure free navigation upon the waterways of the United States against unreasonable obstructions.
There -are no circumstances connected with the original construction of the bridge, or with its maintenance since, which
so tie the hands of the Government that it cannot exert its
full power to protect the freedom of navigation against obstructions.- Although the bridge, -when erected under the
authority of a Pennsylvania chatter, may have been a lawful
structure, and although it may, not have been an unreasonable
obstruction to commerce and navigation as then carried on,
it must be taken, under the cases cited, and upon principle,
not only that the company when exerting the power conferred
upon it by the State, did so with knowledge of the paramount
authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the States,
but that it erected the bridge subject to the possibility that
Congress might, at some future time, when the public interest
,demanded, exert its power, by appropriate legislation to protect navigation against unreasonable obstructions. Even if
the bridge, in its original form, was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, the ,mere failure of the United States, at
the time, to intervene by its officers or by legislation and
prevent its erection, could not create an obligation on the-part
of the 'Government to make compensation to the company if,
at a subsequent time, and for public reasons, Congress should
forbid the maintenance of bridges that had become urireasonable obstructions to navigation. It is. for Congress t6
determine when it will exert its power 'to 'regulate interstate
commerce. -Its meresilence or inaction when individuals or
corporations, under the authority of a State, place unreasonable obstructions in the waterways of the United States, cannot have the 6ffect to cast upon the Government an obligation
not to exert its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce except subject to the condition that.compensation be

UNION BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made or secured to the individuals or corporation who may be
incidentally affected by the exercise of such power. The
principle for which the Bridge Company contends would
seriously impair the exercise of the beneficent power of the
Government to secure the free and unobstructed navigation
of the waterways of the United States. We cannot give our
assent to that principle. In conformity with the adjudged
cases, and in order that the constitutional power of Congress
may have full operation, we must adjudge that Congress has
power to protect navigation on all waterways of the United
States against unreasonable obstructions, even those created
under the sanction of a State, and that an order to so alter a
bridge over a waterway of the United States that it will cease
to be an unreasonableobstruction to navigation will Dpt amount
to a taking of private property for public use f6r which compensation need be made.
Independent of the gtounds upon which we thus place our
decision, it is appropriate fo observe that the conclusion
reached finds support in the charter of the Bridge Company
and in the law of Pennsylvania as declared by its highest
court. The charter of the company, as we. have seen,! expressly warned the company that its bridge must not obstruct
navigation-that is, in legal effect, navigation as it then was,
or might be, at an subsequent time. In Dugan v. Bridge
Company, 27 Pa. St. 303, 309, 311, we have the case of a bridge
company on which was conferred the franchise to erect and
maintain a toll-bridge across Monongahela River, coupled,
however, with the condition that such.bridge should not be
erected "in such manner as to injure, stop, or interrupt the,
navigation of such river by boats, rafts or other vessels."
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania interpreted these words
as meaning that "the bridge was to be so built as not to injure,
stop or interrupt the navigation, either then or now, whether
in its infancy or full growth." The same general question
arose in C., B. & Q. Railway Co. v. Drainage Comm 'rs, above
cited. This court held that the adjudged cases "negative the
voL. cciv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

suggestion of the railway company that the adequacy of its
bridge and the opening under it for passing the water of the
creek at the time the bridge was constructed determine its
obligations to the public at all subsequent periods. In Cooke
v. Boston & Lowell R. R., 133 Massachusetts, 185, 188, it appeared that a railroad company had statutory authority to
cross a certain highway with its road. The statute provided
that if the railroad crossed any highway it should be so constructed as not' to impede or obstruct the safe and convenient
use of the highway. And one of the contentions of the company was that the statute limited its duty and obligation to
provide for the wants of travelers at the time it exercised the
privilege granted to it. The court said: 'The legislature intended to provide against any obstruction of the 'safe and
convenient use of the highway for all time; and if, by the
increase of population in the neighborhood, or by an increasing
use of the highway, the crossing which at the outset was
adequate is no longer so, it is the duty of the railroad corporation to make such alteration as will meet the present needs of
the public who have occasion to use the highway.' In Lake
Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Cluggish, 143 Indiana, 347, the
court said (quoting from Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v.
Smith, 61 Fed. Rep. 885), 'The duty of a railroad to restore
a stream or highway which is crossed by the line of its road
is a continuing duty; and if, by the increase of population or
other causes the crossing becomes inadequate to meet the
new and altered conditions of the country, it is the duty of the
railroad to make such alterations as will meet the present needs
of the public.' So, in State of Indiana v. Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 284, 287, which was the case of an
overhead crossing lawfully constructed on one of the streets
of a city, the court said: 'If, by the growth of population or
otherwise, the crossing has become inadequate to meet the
present needs of the public, it is the duty of the railroad company to remedy the defect by restoring the crossing so that it
will not unnecessarily impair the usefulness of the highway.'

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 403
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

Some stress was-laid in 'argument upon the fact that com-'
pliance with' the "order of the Secretary of',War will compel
the Bridge Company to make a very large expenditure in
money. But that consideration cannot' affect the decision
of the questions of constitutional law involved. It is one to
be addressed to the legislative branch of the Government.
It is for Congress to determine whether, under the' circumstances of a particular case, justice requires that compensation
be made to aperson or corporation incidentally suffering from
the exercise by the National Government of its constitutional
powers.
These are all the matters which require notice at our hands;
and perceiving no errorof law on the record, the judgment
must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

MR. JUSTICE MOODY

MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM

dissent.

did not participate in the consideration

or decision of the case.

GULF, COLORADO AND SANTA VE RAILWAY COMPANY v TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 2.

Argued October 11, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the facts are settled in the state court by special findings, those
findings are conclusive upon this court..
Am interstate shipment-in this case of car-load lots-on reaching the.
point specified in the original contract of transportation'ceases to .be an
interstate shipment, and -its further transportation to another point
within the same State, on the order of the consignee, is controlled by
the la* of the State and not by the Interstate Commerce Act.
97 Texas, 274,,affirmed.

