AMERICAN RAILROAD CO. v. CASTRO.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

AMERICAN RAILROAD COMPANY OF PORTO RICO v.,
CASTRO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 151.

Argued January 14, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

The mere assertion of a Federal right and its denial do not justify this'
court in' assuming jurisdiction where it indubitably appears that the
Federal right is frivolous and without color of merit, and this rule applies
to cases brought to this court under the act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat.
85, from the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico.
Under ยง 34 of the act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 85, regular terms of the
United States District Court are to be held at Ponce and San Juan at
the time fieed by the act and the same character of terms at Mayaguez
at times specially designated by the court. The terms held at Mayaguez
are not specialterms at which jury cases cannot be tried as distinguished
from regular terms, and ยง 670, Rev. Stat., does not apply to such terms
of that court.

JULIO P. CASTRO, defendant in error, was plaintiff in the

court below, and the defendant in error, the American Railroad Company, a New York corporation doing business in
Porto Rico, was defendant. The action was commenced
by the filing of a complaint in the office of the clerk of the
court at Mayaguez, Porto Rico. Damages in the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars were prayed, because of the alleged
negligent killing of the daughter of the plaintiff by a train
of the company, whilst she, with other persons, were attempting to pass, in a vehicle, over the railroad of the defendant,
at a point where it intersected a public highway leading, from
the town of San German to the town of Mayaguez.
A demurrer to the complaint was filed, and also the following plea to the jurisdiction of the court:
"Defendant, in the above-entitled action, comes now,
by its attorney, F. H. Dexter, and objects to the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of this court to try this cause under the terms and provisions
of section 670 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
for the reason that all terms of this court held in tlhe city of
Mayaguez, under and by the terms and provisions of the act
of March 12, 1900, creating a civil goveinment in Porto Rico,
and particularly the present term at which the above cause
is set for trial, is a special term of this court, and, therefore,
this court is without jurisdiction to try the issues in this cause
by a jury.
"Wherefore, defendant prays for an order either dismissing
this cause or transferring the same for-trial at a regular term
of this court to be held at either San Juan or Ponce."
After the entry of an order overruling the demurrer and
the plea to jurisdiction, an answer was filed and the case was
tried by a jury. A verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of sixteen hundred dollars. The objection
to jurisdiction was renewed in a motion to arrest the judgment, and after the overruling thereof a bill of exceptions
was settled by the trial judge, containing exceptions taken
during the trial to the admission and rejection of evidence
and to instructions given and refused. The case was then
brought to this court.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Francis H.
Dexter and Mr. John Spalding Flannery were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederic L. Cornwell, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
By the act of April 12, 1900 (31 Stat.. L. 85, chap. 191),
the general rule governing the right qf this court to review
by writs of error or appeal fihal decisions of the District Court
of the United, States for Porto Rico was made as to amount

AMERICAN RAILROAD CO. v. CASTRO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to conform to that obtaining as to the Territories of the United States, viz., five thousand dollars. As this case does not
involve the requisite jurisdictional amount, it follows that
the right of review does not exist unless the case is within
the provision of the statute conferring jurisdiction to review
in this court "in all cases where . . . an act of Congress
is brought in question and the right claimed therein is denied."
It has been settled that where, in the course of litigation
pending in the court just referred to, a party asserts a right
under an act of Congress, the act "is brought in question,"
and when the right so claimed is denied the case can be brought
here. Serralles v. Esbri, 200 U. S. 103; Rodriguez v. United
States, 198 U. S. 156; Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461.
It is undoubted that the plea to the jurisdiction filed and,
insisted upon below asserted on the record a right under an
act of Congress, which right was denied. But in harmony
with the rule which governs where a right under the Constitution, etc., of the United States is asserted in a case which is
brought to this court from a state court and in accord with
the same rule which also governs cases originally brought
in a court of the United States" (New Orleans Waterworks
Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336, and cases cited; Newburyport Water Co. v.Newburyport, 193 U, S. 561), we are of opinion
that the mere assertion of a Federal right and its denial do
not justify our assuming jurisdiction where it indubitably
appears that the Federal right asserted is frivolous, that is,
without color of merit. We think the case at bar is of this
character.
As appears in the Revised Statutes it has been the uniform
practice of Congress to fix both the time and place for holding
sessions of the District and Circuit Courts of the United States,
which, for convenience of expression, have been styled the
regular terms of court. Rev. Stat. secs. 572, 658. Upon
the district .judge has also been conferred the power of designating the time and place of holding special terms of the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

trict Court, in which any business might be transacted which
might be disposed of at a regular term. Rev. Stat. sec. 581.
The asserted application to the District Court of Porto Rico of
the provision as to special terms of the Circuit Courts is that
upon which was rested the claim of statutory right to exemption from a trial of the cause by a jury at Mayaguez,
Which was denied by the court below, and forms the basis
for the contention that this court must exercise jurisdiction
to pass upon the assigned errors. The section reads as follows:
"SEc. 670. At any special term of, a Circuit Court in any

district in Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina,
Virginia and Wisconsin any business may be transacted
which might be transacted at any' regular term of such court.
At any special term of a Circuit Court in any other district
it shall be competent for the court to entertain -jurisdiction
of and to hear and decide all cases in equity, cases in error
or on appeal, issues of law, motions in arrest of judgment,
motions for a new trial and all other motions, and to award
executions and other final process,, and to do and transact
all other business and direct all other proceedings in all causes
pending in the Circuit Court, except trying any cause by a
jury, in the same way and with the same effect as the same
might be done at any regular session of said court."
The application of this section, it is contended, results from
the concluding words of the following portion of section 34
of the act of April 12, 1900:
"The District Court of the United States 'for Porto Rico
shall have, in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction
of DiStrict Courts of the United States, jurisdiction of all
cases cognizant in the 'Circuit Courts of the United States,
and shall proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit
Court."
Rev. Stat. sec. 670 is to be interpreted in the light of section 669, reading as follows:.
"SEC. 669. In the districts not mentioned in' the five pre-

ceding sections [California, Oregon, Nevada, Kentucky, In-

AMERICAN RAILROAD CO. v. CASTRO.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

diaha, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia and Wisconsin
being the districts mentioned] the presiding judge of any
circuit court may appoint special sessions thereof, to be held
at the places where the regular sessions are held."
Keeping in mind that the substantially uniform rule stated
in Rev. Stat. secs. 664 to 669 requires the holding of special
terms of a Circuit Court at the place where the regular sessions
are authorized to be held, it follows that a special term of a
Circuit Court of the United States, as the expression is employed in Rev. Stat. sec. 670, is a session ordered for the disposal of business, supplementary to a regular term, and to be
held at the place fixed by Congress for holding such regular
term. When the plain result of the legislation just referred
to is noted it is apparent that there is no color whatever for
the pretension that Rev. Stat. sec. 670 had any possible
application to the term at which this case was tried. That
term was held under authority conferred by that portion of
section 34 of the act of April 12, 1900, where, referring to the
District Court of Porto Rico, it was provided:
"Regular terms of said court shall be held in San Juan, commencing on the second Monday in April and October of each
year, and also at Ponce on the second Monday in January of
each year, and special terms may be held at Mayaguez at such
other times as said judge may deem expedient."
On the face of this provision it is apparent that it was the
intention of Congress to authorize the holding of sessions of the
court at Mayaguez at times to be specially designated by the
district judge. It can not be said that the word special in
the act -was intended to affix to the terms authorized by Congress to be held at Mayaguez the character of special terms,
as contradistinguished from regular terms, within the purview of Rev. Stat. sec. 670, without reducing the statute to
an absurdity, for unless the act authorized the holding of
regular terms at Mayaguez it would be impossible to conceive
of the holding of special terms at that place in the sense of
Rev. Stat. see. 670. What the provision in question plainly

OCTOBER TERM; 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

meant was that regular terms should be held at Ponce and
San Juan at the times fixed by Congress in the statute and
that the same character of term might be held at Mayaguez
at time to be specially designated by the. district judge.
Dismissed for want oj jurisdiction.

McKAY 1 v. KALYTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 181.

Argued January 25, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Although the Federal right was first claimed in the state court in the petition for rehearing, if the question was raised, was necessarily involved,
and was considered and decided adversely by the state court, this court
has jurisdiction under ยง 709, Rev. Stat.
The United States has retained such control over the allotments to Indians
that, except as provided by acts of Congress, controversies involving the
determination of title to, and right to possession of, Indian allotments
while the same are held in trust by the United States are not primarily
cognizable by any court, state or Federal.
The act of August 15, 1894, 28 Stat. 286, delegating to Federal courts the
power to determine questions involving the rights of Indians to allotments did not confer upon state courts authority to pass upon any questions over which they did not have jurisdiction prior to the passage of such
act, either as to title to the allotment, or the mere possession thereof
which is of necessity dependent upon the title.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of Umatilla
County, Oregon, by the filing of a complaint in the name of
Agnes Kaylton, suing by her mother, Louise Kaylton, as
guardian ad litem. Mary Kaylton and six other persons were
made defendants, one such (Charles Wilkins) being sued as the
acting United States Indian agent at the Umatilla reservation.
It was alleged in substance as follows: By virtue of an act
of Congress approved March 3, 1885, and the amendments

I Substituted

for Kalyton.

