LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.

551

Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

that it was in fact the intention of the assignees to abandon
this property."
We think that the record sustains the conclusion of the
court.
These views dispose of all the questions in the case.
Decree affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SMITH, HUGGINS & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 198.

Argued January 31, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

If a party relies upon a Federal right he must specially set it up. The mere
denial of a carrier, sued for damages to merchandise, that it was bound by
contracts of the initial carrier, or that it was the connecting and ultimate
carrier of the merchandise and bound "by the law" to receive and
forward the merchandise, does not, in the absence of any other reference
thereto, raise a Federal question under the Interstate Commerce Act
which gives this court jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709,
Rev. Stat.
While the certificate of the presiding judge of a state court can make more
certain and specific what is too general and indefinite in the record it
cannot give jurisdiction to this court under § 709, Rev. Stat;, where
there is nothing in the record in the way of a Federal question to specialize
and make definite and certain.
THIS suit was brought in the Chancery Court for the county
of Jefferson, State of Tennessee, by defendant, in error against,
the plaintiff in error and the Southern Railway Company, for
damages alleged to have been received by the defendant in
error to certain carloads of corn shipped over the Southern
Railway Company from certain points- in Tennessee to be
delivered to defendant in error or its order 'at Birmingham,
Alabama.
The bill alleged that at the time of the shipments the two

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

railway companies were common carriers of goods and chattels,
the Southern Railway being the receiving and initial carrier,
and the one with which the contracts were made, and the plaintiff in error being the connecting and ultimate carrier, and as
such bound by said contracts and the law relative to common
carriers to receive said cars of corn, and to forward and deliver
them to destination whereunto consigned in good order and
in a reasonable time. It was alleged that one of said companies "breached the said several contracts," whereby the
damage complained of accrued.
The companies filed separate answers. That of the Southern
Railway Company we need not set out. Plaintiff in error, in
its answer, neither admitted nor denied certain of the allegations of the bill, and expressed want of knowledge as to others.
Touching the allegation of the bill, that it was a common
carrier, it admitted that it was such in certain States and
portions of the country where it operated lines of roads, but
denied "that it was the connecting and ultimate carrier of
the carloads of corn alleged to have been delivered to the
Southern Railway Company," denied that it made the contracts or was liable under them, or ' that it was bound by
law to receive said alleged carloads of corn and forward and
deliver them to their ultimate destination in good order and
in reasonable time."
The chancellor adjudged that there was no liability on the
part of plaintiff in error, and dismissed the bill as to it. He
held the Southern Railway Company liable for not delivering
the cars, according to its contracts, within a reasonable time,
and, after report by a master to whom the cause was referred,
decreed that complainant have and recover the sum of $1,015.69.
The case was taken to the Court of Chancery Appeals, both
by defendant in error and the Southern Railway Company.
And that court adjudged that the Court of Chancery erred
(1) in adjudging that the Southern Railway Company was
liable for any part of the damages to the corn which accrued
after its arrival upon the delivery tracks of the company, in

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

553

Statement of the Case.

Birmingham and after notice to the consignees of its arrival;
(2) in adjudging that plaintiff in error was not liable for the
damages suffered by the corn after its arrival in Birmingham
and while it was in the yards prior to being unloaded. The
court said:
"This court is of the opinion that the Southern Railway
Company is only liable for such portion of the damages as
accrued by reason of the delay in transition of the cars shipped,
which is fixed by the concurrent finding of the master and
chancellor at forty per cent of the entire damages.
"This court is further of the opinion and decrees that the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company is liable for sixty
per cent of the damages reported by the master, being the
per cent of damages which accrued while the corn remained
.undelivered in the yards at Birmingham."
It was accordingly adjudged and decreed that the complainant recover of the Southern Railway Company $415.84, and
of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company $609.42,
being sixty per cent of the recovery awarded by the chaficellor,
together with interest from May 8, 1905, making a total of
$623.73. The plaintiff in error took an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State. It assigned as error the action of the
Court of Chancery Appeals (1) "In refusing to find certain
uncontradicted facts' when specially requested to so find."
The facts were set out. (2) That the court erred in holding
the company liable for any portion of the alleged damage
"because under the facts of the case it was not a connecting
carrier and was not bound to handle these shipments." The
other errors assigned we are not concerned with. The decree
of the Chancery Court of Appeals was' affirmed without an,
opinion by the Supreme Court. The order of affirmance recites
that the cause came "on to be heard upon the transcript of
the record from the Chancery Court of Jefferson County, the
opinion and findings of fact of the Court of Chancery Appeals
and the assignment of errors filed to the decree of said Court
of. Chancery Appeals by the defendant, Louisville and Nash-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906. '
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

ville Railroad Company, and the reply brief of complainants."
The assignments of error in this court are to the effect that
the Supreme Court erred in not giving full force and effect to
the Interstate Commerce Act, which, it is contended, governed
the shipments, and-in not disregarding the statutes and decisions of the State in conflict therewith, and in denying the
rights claimed by plaintiff in error under the Interstate Commerce Act. And that the court erred in holding that it was
the duty of plaintiff in error to switch over its yards and
terminals cars tendered to it by the Southern Railway Company; in holding that it did not have the right to discriminate
as to freight arriving on its own lines, or could not prefer
its own business; in rendering judgment against it because
it would not turn over its private switch yards and terminals
to a competing road, and because of its refusal to make a
through routing with the Southern Railway Company; in
holding that it was its duty to switch cars for other roads
within its terminals to the exclusion of its own business, the
effect being to cause an obstruction to interstate commerce
and an interference with the paramount duties to which it was
subjected by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Other facts will appear in the opinion.
Mr. James B. Wright, with whom Mr. John H. Frantz
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Complainants' bill in this case charges that the goods were
delivered to the Southern Railway Company at various East
Tennessee points and consigned to Birmingham, Alabama,
which allegations in themselves make the subject matter
of this lawsuit a subject of interstate commerce.
The Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company interposed a
general denial and that sufficiently raised the Federal question
even if it should be held necessary to raise it in the pleadings.
-Even though the state court did not in its opinion expressly
refer to the Federal Constitution, if the bill of affirmance

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

555

Argument for Defendant iriError.

necessarily denied Federal rights claimed by the defendant;
the writ of error will lie. Roby v. Coehour, 146 U. S. 153;.
Green Bay &c. Co. v. Patten Pdper Co., 172 U. S. 58.
This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment of the
state court when it necessarily involves the decision of the
question, raised in the appellate court for the first time and
noticed in its opinion, whether a statute of the State conflicts
with the. Constitution of the United States. Arrowsmith v.
Harmoning, 118 U. S. 19; Chicago L. Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S.574; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Chapman v.
Crane, 123 U. S.540; Green Bay &c. Co. v. Patten Paper Co.,
172 U. S.58.
The Federal question is involved if the effect of the state
decision is to construe the act alleged, to violate the Federal
Constitution although the state court does not mention the
statute. Houston & T. C. R. R. Co. v. Texas, 177-U. S.66.
It is not always necessary that the Federal question should
appear affirmatively on the record or in the opinion if an
adjudication of such question was necessarily involved in
the disposition of the case by the state court. Kaukauna
Water Power Co. v. Green Bay Canal Co., 142 U. S.254; Snell v.:
Chicago, 152 U. S. 191.
If it appears from the record by clear and necessary intendment that the Federal question must have been directly involved so that the state court could not have given judgment
without deciding it that will be sufficient to give jurisdiction.
Powell v. Brunswik County, 150 U. S. 433; A~mstrong v.
Athens County, 16 Pet. 284.
Mr. C. T. Rankin, for defendant in error, submitted:
The findings of the Court of Chancery Appeals are conclusive upon the Supreme Court of Tennessee as to the facts
of the case; and that court can not look behind the findings,
to the depositions, or any matter of evidence. Acts 1895,
Ch. 76, § 11, creating Court of Chancery Appeals (Shannon's
Code, §§ 6312, 6327).

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Under this statute, the Supreme Court of Tennessee has
repeatedly held that the case must be tried by it alone on
the findings of the Court of Appeals; -and that the decree
of the Court of Appeals must be shown by the facts appearing
in its findings to be erroneous. Hale v. Hale, 99 Tennessee,
513; Carver v. Maxwell, 110 Tennessee; 77; Woodward v. Bird,
105 Tennessee, 673.
This finding of facts is equally conclusive upon this court.
It is well settled that on writ of error to a state court, this
court will not review the findings of fact by the state court.
K. & H. Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626, 635; Jenkins v.
Neff, 186 U. S. 230, 238.
An examination of the opinion and findings of facts of the
Court of Chancery Appeals and its decree, together with the
decree of the Supreme Court, which is one of simple affirmance,
will Show that those courts did not consider or pass upon any
Federal question whatever, and that the Interstate Commerce
Act invoked has no application.
MR.'-JUsTIcE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is. made to dismiss the writ of error, on the ground
that no Federal question was raised in the state courts or decided by them.. In opposition to the motion plaintiff in error
9ontends that the allegations of the bill and its denial thereof
sufficiently. raise a Federal question, and that the courts of
the' State, in rendering judgment against plaintiff in error,
necessarily decided- that. question. And it is further contendd that even if those courts did not pass on the Federal
question, their failure. or refusal to do so is equivalent to a
dedisi6n against the Federal rights involved. A number of
cases'-are cited to sustain these propositions. But is the basis
of the propositions sound? In other words,, was a Federal
question raised, or, if raised, ignored? First, as to'the pleadings. The bill charges . a breach of the contracts of ship-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.-. 557
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment by one or the other of the railway companies who, the
-bill alleges; were connecting common carriers, and as such
bound by the contracts and the law relative to common carriers to receive and forward to destination the goods shipped
in good order and in a reasonable time. Plaintiff in error
admitted that it was a common carrier in some States, but
was not a connecting and ultimate carrier of the corn in question, denied that it was bound by the contracts, and denied
that "it was bound by law" to receive the corn and- forward
and deliver it .to its ultimate destination. And this denial,
'it is insisted, raised a Federal question: We do not think so.
The denial was of a legal conclusion resulting from the facts
alleged, and added nothing to them. Besides, if a party
relies upon a Federal right,- he must specially set it up, and
a denial of liability under the law is not a compliance with
that requirement. For this we need not cite cases.
Was a Federal question decided or -ignored? To answer
the question a review of the proceedings is necessary. The
chancery -court held that, as between the complainant and
plaintiff in error, there was ro liability upon the part of the
latter.'. The rights of the railway companies, between themselves, the court said, need not be determined.. 'The opinion
and findings of the Chancery Court of Appeals are very elaborate. They, state the issue, the proceedings in and the judgmeut of -the chancery court and recite that-"Now, .it appears that the Louisville 'and Nashville Railway denies any liability for its refusal to receive corn shipped
over the Southern Railway after its arrival at Birmingham
and deliver it over its terminal tracks to the American Mill
and Elevator .Company, to whom the corn had been sold.
Of course, this denial is predicated upon the. idea' that
it was not, a •connecting carrier in handling the shipments of
corn involved in this case, or that it. was under any obligation
respecting the same."
Passing on these denials the court saidothat at the time of
the shipments the Southern Railway Company was placing

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

:.hipments, as it was requested, upon the spur. track of
plaintiff in error, 'and that the latter was accustomed to receive them and remove them to places where they were to be
-delivered; and this was its custom for years, and until about
the time or just before the, corn reached Birmingham, "it
was a part of its business and a daily occurrence to receive
and remove such cars of freight." And this was done for all
persons offering them and without discrimination. For this
service it received compensation. The court, however, also
found that plaintiff in error "placed an embargo upon the
receipt or handling of such cars., November 13, 1902, after
the complainant had contracted to sell the carloads of corn
and after most of them were shipped."
The contention. of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, the court stated as follows:
3"The contention of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, reduced to its simplest statement, is that it was not
bound to receive these cars of corn and place them.
"This insistence on its part rests upon the proposition that,
in the matter of handling the cars of other roads in its yards
or over its spur tracks, it was not a common carrier, but
simply a private carrier, and that this being so, it had the
right to refuse to receive and handle these cars, and as a'
corollary to this proposition, that it had the right to discriminate between freight arriving in Birmingham over its lines.
and freight arriving over other lines, and could give preference
between those that it chose to serve in this business."
* The court decided against the contention, and that the
company, by reason of its practice in handling freight, "assumed With respect thereto the character of a common carrier,
and'hence incurred the duties and liabilities of such character."
The court added:
"The result is that we are of opinion that the Louisville
and Nashville Railway Company was' bound, by Virtue of
its previous course of business, -to accept these cars of corn
and deliver them to their destination on its terminal or spur

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

559

Opinion of the Court.

tracks, and that by reason of its failure to do so, it is liable
for all damages resulting from its failure, - . .
There was a petition for an additional finding of fact and a
rehearing, which the court said would take in the neighborhood of one hundred pages of typewritten information to set
out and answer in the form in which they were presented.
Some, however, were granted; some qualified. We give only
those which we think are relevant. The fifteenth request
was that ,the court set out in full from the evidence, which
was, it was said, uncontradicted, the conditions which caused
the embargo to be laid by plaintiff in error against switching.
The evidence was set out. The court, answering the request,
said:
. "The simple fact in connection with this matter is that the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company declined to receive these cars of corn and deliver them to their destination
on their spur or side tracks, because it deemed it to its advantage to use its said tracks for and in its own special business."
The twenty-fifth request was "that the terminals and'
equipment of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
at that time were sufficient under ordinary circumstances and
conditions." In granting this request the court remarked:
"The twenty-fifth request is granted, with the statement,
that in our opinion, based upon the evidence as we construe
it, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company could have
handled this corn and delivered it to its destination much
sooner than it did had it not preferred other business, and
even with that business, with the energetic appliance of all
the means and facilities at its command."
It will be seen from this statement of the case that there is
not a word in it which refers to the Interstate Commerce Act
or the assertion of any rights under that act. Plaintiff in
error accounts for the want of explicitstatement on the ground
that the action was instituted and tried, until the decision of
the chancery court, upon the theory that the Southern Railway Company and plaintiff in error were "connecting car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

riers," and that this theory of the case having been disproved
and the appeal dismissed as to plaintiff in error, complainant
(defendant in error) shifted its position, and under the broad
practice and pleading in the state court was allowed to proceed and procure judgment upon the theory that plaintiff
in error had discriminated against defendant in error by preferring its own business, that it had failed to furnish equal
facilities for interchange as to this shipment, and that, on
account of its previous switching arrangements with the
Southern Railway Company, it had no right- to refuse to
"switch" the cars over its terminals. The record furnishes
no justification for this contention. The bill charged the
railroad companies as being connecting common carriers,
plaintiff in error. being the ultimate carrier, and that both
were bound by the contracts made, and bound to carry the
corn from the points of shipment to destination. Plaintiff
in err6r denied these allegations, as we have seen, and on the
issue thus formed proof was taken.
The chancery court found, it is true, in favor of plaintiff
in error. The case was taken to the Court of Chancery Appeals,
where it was heard, the record recites, "upon the transcript
of the record from the Chancery Court of Jefferson County
and upon the assignments of error and briefs of counsel."
In other words, the Court of Chancery Appeals heard the
case as made in the chancery court. What the Chancery Court
of Appeals said of the issues and contentions of the parties
we have already stated, and we need only repeat that the
assignment of error by complainant (defendant in error)
in the Chancery Court of Appeals was general, and showed
no change in the theory upon which the case was brought
and conducted. It was that the chancery court erred in
holding that there was no liability on the part of the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, and in refusing to hold
that it was liable either alone or jointly with the other company. And the court said that the denial of plaintiff in error
of liability was "predicated upon the idea that it was not a

-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

561

Opinion of the Court.

connecting carrier ,inhandling the shipments of corn involved
in this case, or that it was under no obligations respecting the
same." It -is true the court also said that plaintiff in error
contended "that it had the right to discriminate between
freight arriving ,.in Birmingham over its lines and freight
arriving over other lines, and could give preference between
those that it chose to serve in this business," but this contention, it was also said, was "as a corollary" to the proposition that plaintiff in error was not a common carrier, but
simply a private carrier. The court determined against this
proposition, and in consequence adjudged plaintiff in error
liable. In other words, the judgment of the court was in
exact response to the pleading. Nor was there any change on
appeal to the Supreme Court. The railroad company's second
assignment of error was (and it is the only one with which we
can concern ourselves) that it was not "liable for any portion
of the alleged damage to these various shipments, because under the facts of this case it was not a connecting carrier and
was not bound to handle these shipments. . .
There is in the printed record a certificate of the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the State, given when the
writ of error was applied for, to the effect tha,.the Supreme
Court of the State was of opinion "that the statutes and laws
of Tennessee were not in conflict with the act of Congress
regulating interstate commerce, and that the act of Congress
did not control the shipments in controversy." Counsel
concedes the rule to be that the certificate of the presiding
judge of a state court is insufficient to give us jurisdiction,
but insists that it can make more certain and specific what
is too general and indefinite in the record. There is no doubt
of the rule, but there is nothing in this record to justify its
application. There is nothing in the record to specialize.
It is less open to conjecture than the certificate. As no
Federal question was raised, the motion to dismiss must be
granted.
It is so ordered,
VOL. cciv-36

