OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

These remarks require no-addition. They exhibit the con-,
ditions which existed in the State, the cause and purpose of
the statutes which are assailed, and vindicate thein from the,
accusation of being an arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination against the sheep industry.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BltEwER and Mit. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent.

BOWN v.; WALLING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEE STXTE OF IDAHO.
No. 81.

Argued January 10, 1907.--Decirled.February 4, 1907.

Decided on authority of Bacon v.
9 Idaho, 740, affirmed.
THE

Valker, ant, p. 311.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. Ill. Stockslager, with whom Mlr. W. E. Borah, Mr.
Frank T. Wyman and Ar. John C. Rice were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.'
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTIcE

McKEN,£ delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Probate Court in. and for
Elmore County, State of Idaho,"for the sum of two hundred
dollars' damages sustained by defendant in error by the violation by plaintiffs in error of sections 1210, 1211 of the Revised
Statutes of Idaho. 'The amended complaint alleged that the
offense was committed by plaintiffs in error by wrongfully
and negligently permitting and allowing their sheep to graze
1 For abstract'bf argument

ee ante, p. 312.

CHICAGO v; MILLS.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

within two miles of the -dwelling house of defendant in error
and upon the Government lands around his premises. The
defense, set up by demurrer, was, as iri Bacon v. Walker, ante,
p. 311, that those sections were void under the due process
and equality clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The trial court tendered
judgment for the defendant in error, which was affirmed by
the District Court for Elmore County and by the Supreme
Court of the State. 9 Idaho, 740.
The case was argued with Bacon v. Walker et. al., and on
the authority of that case the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and- MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissent.

CITY OF CHICAGO v. MILLS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

FOR THE NORTHERN D1STR1IC
No. 286.

OF

THE UNITEI) STATES

OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted December 21, 1906.-D~ided February 4, 1907.

Althouqh the certificate of the Circuit Court may, not state exactly how
the jurisdictional question certified arose, this court can ascertain it
from -the record together with the opinion of the court below made a!
part thereof.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must be determined with reference
to the attitude of the case at the date of-the filing of the bill.
Whqn a citizen of one State has a cause, of-action against a citizen of another
State which he may lawfully prosecute in a Federal court, his motive in
,
preferring a Iederal tribunal, in the- absence of fraud and collusion is
immaterial If it does not appear that there was any collusion within the meaning of
the ninety-fourth rule in equity for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction,
not otherwise existing, on the Circuit Court of the United States, that
court does not lose its jurisdiction of a suit brought by a non-resident
stockholder, aftey request to and refusal by the corporation, to enjoin

VOL. cciv-21,

