OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

courts upon a cause of action which he alleges to be joint, it
is equally true that the Federal courts should not sanction
devices intended to prevent a removal to a Federal court
where one has that right, and should be equally vigilant to
protect the right to proceed in the Federal court as to permit
the state courts, in proper cases, to retain their own jurisdiction.
Reaching the conclusion that the court did not err in holding
upon the testimony in this came that the real purpose in joining
Wettengel was to prevent the exercise of the right of removal
by the non-resident defendant, we affirm the action of the
Circuit Court in refusing to remand the case.
Judgment a/firmed.

SHROPSHIRE, WOODLIFF' & CO. v. BUSH.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SIXTH

No. 416.

FOR THE

CIRCU IT.

Submitted December 20, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

An assignee of a claim of less than $300 for wages earned within three
months before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy against
the bankrupt is entitled to priority under I 64a when the assignment
occurred prior to the commencement of the proceedings.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Benjamin and Mr. Rutherford Lapsley for
appellant:
The right of priority in a wage claim is a right which attaches
to the debt, and not to the person or the original creditor; and
the right passes by assignment to the assignee. Trust Co. v.
Walker, 107 U., S. 596; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Railroad Co. v. Lamont, 16 C. C. A. 364; S. C., 69 Fed. Rep. 23;
McIlhenny v. Binz, 80 Texas, i.

SHROPSHIRE, WOODLIFF & CO. v. BUSH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George D. Lancaster, Mr. John P. Tillman and Mr. J. H.
Beal, for appellees:
The words of a statute are to be taken in their natural and
ordinary sense and without any forced construction to extend
their meaning. Applying this rule to the sub-section in question it is clear that Congress meant to prescribe two conditions
as essential to give priority to debts due by a bankrupt; they
must be debts due on account of wages and debts due to workmen.
The solicitude of Congress was for the workman, on account
of the suffering which must result from the loss of his meagre
wages, and did not extend to speculators who might have purchased the laborer's claims at a heavy discount.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees are trustees of the bankrupt estate of the
Southern Car and Foundry Company. The appellants, before
the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, acquired
by purchase and assignment a large number of claims for wages
of workmen and servants, none exceeding $300 in amount, and
all earned within three months before the date of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy. The District Court for
the Eastern District of Tennessee rendered a judgment disallowing priority to these claims, because, when filed, they were not
"due to workmen, clerks or servants."
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit that court duly certified here for instructions the following
question:
"Is an assignee of a claim for wages earned within three
months before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy against the bankrupt debtor entitled to priority of payment, under section 64 (4) of the bankrupt act, when the
assignment occurred prior to the commencement of such
bankruptcy proceedings?"
The question certified has never been passed upon by any

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204-U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals, and in the District Courts the decisions upon it are conflicting. In re Westlund et al., 99 Fed.
Rep. 399; In re St. Louis Ice Company, 147 Fed. Rep. 752;
In re North Carolina Car Company [Semble], 127 Fed. Rep.
178, where the right of the assignee to priority was denied;
In re Brown, Federal Cases, 1974 [Act of 1867]; In re Harmon,
128 Fed. Rep. 170, where, on facts slightly but not essentially
different, the right of the assignee to priority was affirmed.
The bankruptcy law (Act July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 544, 563, c.
541), in section 1, defines "debt" as including "any debt,
demand, or claim provable in bankruptcy." Section 64, under
which priority is claimed in this case, is, in the parts material
to the determination of the question, as follows:
. . . b. The
"SEc. 64. Debts which have priority.debts to have priority, except as herein provided, and to be
paid in full out of bankrupt estates, and the order of payment,
shall be . . . (4) wages due to workmen, clerks, or servants
which have been earned within three months before the date
of the commencement of proceedings, not to exceed $300 to
" "
each claimant;
The precise inquiry is whether the right of prior payment
thus conferred is attached to the person .or to the claim of the
wage earner; if to the person, it is available only to him, if to
the claim, it passes with the transfer to the assignee. In support of the proposition that the right is personal to the wage
earner, and enforceable only by him, it is argued that it is not
priorwages earned within the prescribed time which are given
ity, but wages "due to workmen, clerks or servants;" that when
the claim is assigned to another it is no longer "due to workmen,
clerks or servants," but to the assignee, and therefore when
presented by him lacks one of the characteristics which the law
makes essential to priority. In this argument it is assumed
-that the wages must be "due" to the earner at the time of the'
presentment of the claim for proof, or at least at the time of the
commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy. Without
that assumption the argument fails to support the conclusion.

SHROPSHIRE, WOODLIFF & CO. v. BUSH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But the statute lends no countenance to this assumption. It
nowhere expressly or by fair- implication says that the wages
must be due to the earner at the time of the presentment of the
claim, or of the beginning of the proceedings, and we find no
warrant for supplying such a restriction. Regarding, then,
the plain words of the statute, and no more, they seem to be
merely descriptive of the nature of the debt to which priority
is given. When one has incurred a debt for wages due to
workmen, clerks or servants, that debt, within the limits of time
and amount prescribed by the act, is entitled to priority of
payment. The priority is attached to the debt and not to the
person of the creditor; to the claim and not to the claimant.
The act does not enumerate classes of creditors and confer upon
them the privilege of priority in payment, but, on the other
hand, enumerates classes of debts as "the debts to have priority."
In this case the Southern Car and Foundry Company had
incurred certain debts for wages due to workmen, clerks or
servants, which were earned within three months befoFe the
date of the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy.
These debts were exactly within the description of those to
which the Bankruptcy Act gives priority of payment, and they
did not cease to be within that description by their assignment
to another. The character of the debts was fixed when they
were incurred, and could not be changed by an assignment.
They were precisely of one of the classes of debts which the
statute says are "debts to have priority."
The question certified is answered in the affirmative, and
It is so ordered.

