GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 403
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

Some stress was-laid in 'argument upon the fact that com-'
pliance with' the "order of the Secretary of',War will compel
the Bridge Company to make a very large expenditure in
money. But that consideration cannot' affect the decision
of the questions of constitutional law involved. It is one to
be addressed to the legislative branch of the Government.
It is for Congress to determine whether, under the' circumstances of a particular case, justice requires that compensation
be made to aperson or corporation incidentally suffering from
the exercise by the National Government of its constitutional
powers.
These are all the matters which require notice at our hands;
and perceiving no errorof law on the record, the judgment
must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

MR. JUSTICE MOODY

MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM

dissent.

did not participate in the consideration

or decision of the case.

GULF, COLORADO AND SANTA VE RAILWAY COMPANY v TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 2.

Argued October 11, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the facts are settled in the state court by special findings, those
findings are conclusive upon this court..
Am interstate shipment-in this case of car-load lots-on reaching the.
point specified in the original contract of transportation'ceases to .be an
interstate shipment, and -its further transportation to another point
within the same State, on the order of the consignee, is controlled by
the la* of the State and not by the Interstate Commerce Act.
97 Texas, 274,,affirmed.

.404

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.,

204 U. S.

IN the District Court of Tarrant County, Texas, on July 28,
1902, the State of Texas recovered a judgment against the
Gulf, Colorado arid Santa F6 Railway Company for one hundred dollars as a penalty for extortion in a charge for the
transportation of a carload of corn from Texarkana, Texas, to
Goldthwaite, Texas. This judgment was sustained by both
the Court of Civil Appeals, 32 Tex. Civ. App. 1, and the Sfti.
preme Court of the State. 97 Texas, 274. Thereupon the
railway -company brought the case here on a iviit-of error.
The case was tried in the District Court without a jury.
Findings of fact were made, which were sustained by the
appellate courts. From them it appears that on January 13,
1902, the Texas and Pacific Railway Company,. which owns
and operates a railroad from Texarkana, Texas, to Fort Worth,;
Texas, executed a bill of lading by which it acknowledged the
receipt from the Samuel Hardin Grain Ccmpany-at Texarkana,
Texas, of one car of sacked corn consigned to shippers, with
orders to deliver to Saylor & Burnett, at Goldthwaite, Texas.
This car of corn was transported by the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company to Fort Worth, there delivered to the defendant railway company and by it transported to Goldthwaite,
where it arrived on the seventeenth day of January, 1902.
When it reached Goldthwaite, Saylor & Burnett, who were
acting for the Samuel Hardin Grain Company, tendered the
charges prescribed by the state railroad commission, which
the agent declined to accept, and demanded and collected a
larger sum. The following findings state the important facts
upon which the controversy turns:
"8. On December 23d, 1901, the Samuel Hardin Grain Company, at Kansas City, Mo., offered to sell Saylor & Burnett, at
Goldthwaite, Texas, No. 2 mixed corn at 86 cents per bushel
for delivery on railway track at Gold thwaite, and this offer
was accepted for two carloads of corn. This offer and acceptance was by telegraphic commulication between the parties at
their respective places of business. The Hardin Grain Company did not at that time have the corn, but on December 24th,

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA F
204 U. S.

RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 405

Statement of the Case.

1901, to fill the order it contracted with the Harroun Commission Company of Kansas City for the purchase-two 66,000pound cars of No. 2 mixed corn at 75. cents per bushel, to be
delivered at Texarkana, Texas, to the Hardin Grain Company.
Previously to this the Harroun Commission Company had
contracted for the purchase of two cars of corn to be delivered
to it at Texarkana, Texas, and with these two cars it expected
to and did fill the order of the Hardin Grain Company. These
cars had origifiated in Hudson, South Dakota. The receiving
carrier at Hudson was the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company, who issued bills of lading limiting its liability to losses occurring on its road, with a like limitation of
liability of all other carriers who should handle said corn in
transit to its destination. By the terns of said bills of lading
the corn was consigned to 'Forrester Bros., Texarkana, Texas,'
.and shipment made in cars of C. M. & St. P.. Ry. Co., care of
Kansas City. Southern Ry. at Kansas City, Missouri, with the'
privilege to stop the corn at Kansas City for inspection and
transfer. The corn reached Kansas City on December, 17th,
1901, was there unloaded, sacked and transferred to the Kansas City Southern Railway Co., who, on December 31st, 1901,
issued bills of lading reciting that the corn was loaded in cars
No. 3845 P. G. and No. 4189 P. G., that same was received of
Forrester Bros. and consigned as, follows: 'Shipper's order,
notify Harroun Commission Company,. Texarkana, Texas,'
and reciting further that freight 14 cents per hundred pounds
wasprepaid, and one of these cars, to wit, car 'No. 3845 P. G.'
isthe car in controversy in this suit.
"9. The Harroun Commission Company paid no freight on
the corn from Hudson, South Dakota, to Texarkana, Texas,
as it had purchased it to be delivered at.Texarkana.
"10. The freight- on the corn from Hudson to Texarkana was
as follows: 18 cents per 100 pounds from Hudson to Kansas
City and 14 cents troi Kansas City to Texarkana, all of which
was paid by the vendors of Harroun Commission Company.
The'niiiiinuii interstate rate from Hudson, South Dakota, to

OCTbBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

Goldthwaite, Texas, was 46 cents per 100 pounds, which would
have been apportioned as follows: 18 cents from Hudson to
Kansas. City, and 28 cents from Kansas City to Go1dthwaite,
Texas. The G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co., the T. & P. Ry. Co. and
the Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., together with other connecting lines from Kansas City, Missouri, to Goldthwaite,
Texas, had established a joint tariff of 35 cents per 100 pounds
on shipments from Kansas City to Goldihwaite via Texarkana
and originating in Kansas-City, had agreed on a division of
that rate between them and had filed tariffs establishing such
rate with the Interstate Commerce Comnission, and by such
steps had brought itself within the provisions of the interstate
commerce laws.
"11. The Hardin Grain Company's officers kept themselves
informed of interstate commission freight rates and of the
state commission rates, and the reason why they contracted
for the corn to be delivered to them at Texarkana was because
they could All their contract with Saylor & Burnett at Goldthwaite at, about 1 cents per bushel cheaper than they could
if they bought the corn for delive ry to them at Kansas City
and had it shipped from Kansas City to Goldthwaite.
"12. At the time of the purchase contract between the Hardin Grain Company and, the Harroun Commission Company,
Hardin, the manager of the former company, intended that the
corn to be thereby acquired should go to Saylor & Burnett
and should be shipped to Goldthwaite, from Texarkana, as
soon as ptacticable, and ofn 'December 26th, 1901, two days
after this contract for purchase had been made, Hardin was'
informed that the corn with which Harroun Commission Conipany expected to fill his order would be sacked in Kansas City
and be shipped out of Kansas City to Texarkana, but at the,
time of making the contract he-did not know from whence the
corn would come.
"13. Ofn December, 31st, 1901, the date of shipment from
Kansas City to Texarkana, Harroun Commission Company
informed the Hardin Grain Company that the corn to fill the

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 407
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

latter's order had been loaded to start to Texarkana, and
requested instruction as to how the corn should be shipped
from Texarkana for the guidance of F. L. Atkins, their agent
at that place, who would attend to such reshipping for the
Hardin Grain Company, as per former understanding. Thereupon and in compliance with such request blank bills of lading
were made out by the Hardin Grain Company in Kansas City
and furnished to the Harroun Commission Company, to be
forwarded to F. L. Atkins. These bills of lading were to be
executed by the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, and
F. L. Atkins, as agent for the Hardin Grain Company, and
were for shipment of the corn to Goldthwaite, Texas, consigned
to 'Shipper's order, notify, etc.,' giving the numbers and initials
of cars, which information had been furnished by the Harroun
Commission Company, and on January 14, 1902, the reshipment having been made as per instructions, the bills of lading
duly executed by the Texas and Pacific Ry. Co. were by Harroun delivered to Hardin Grain Company, who thereupon
paid the iarroun CommissionCompany $1,779.64, the purchase
price previously agreed upon for the corn, and the receipt of
said blank bills of lading by the Harrotin Commission Company
was the first information had by that company of the intended
final destination and disposition of the corn.
"14. Neither' Hardin Grain Company nor Harroun Commission Company hiad any store or warehouse at .Texarkana,
but under the agreement between the two companies (Hardin
and Harroun) one F. L. Atkins, who was the agent of the
Harroun Commission Company, and stationed at Texarkana,
reshipped the corn at Texarkana for the Hardin Grain Company. That shipment was to Goldthwaite; Texas, over the
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. and the G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co., by bill
of lading reciting its receipt from Hardin Grain Company,
and consignied to 'Shipper's order, notify Saylor & Burnett,
Goldthwaite, Texas,' and was transferred under original seals
and ,without breaking packages, to the Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co., after having remained in Texarkana five days, the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.'
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

thing done by F L. Atkins was to surrender the Kansas City
Southern bill of lading, have the cars set over on the T. & P. Ry.,
and take a bill of lading from the latter company. The corn
reached Texarkana January 7th, 1902, and was shipped out
from Texarkana January 13th, 1902; the defendant was not
a party to the bill of lading executed at Texarkana.
"15. On December 31st, 1901, Hardin Grain Company
mailed to Saylor & Burnett an invoice of the corn in the form
of an account stating the car'No.'s and initial, the amount of
corn and price to be paid by Saylor &.Burnett."
Mr. GardinerLathrop, with whom Mr. AZdis B. Browne and
Mr. J. W. Terry, were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Transportation of freight from a point in one State to a point
in another is of itself interstate commerce without reference
to any question of intended sale of freight.. Such a shipment
does not become intrastate commerce when it reaches the
state 'line, but continues interstate commerce until delivery
at the final place of destination in the State. Rhodes v. Iowa,
170 U. S., 41.2. The intention of the parties who control the
shipment determines the place of final destination in the State.
The mere fact that a sale is made of the freight while in transit
to the place of final destination does not change its character
.from interstate to state commerce. Kelley v. Rhodes, 188 U. S.
1; United States v. Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; McCall v.
California, 136 U. S. 108; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Wabash Ry. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 570,
573, 574; Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S.
617.
If railroad companies by manipulation or form may not
make that a state or territory shipment which otherwise
would be an interstate commerce transaction, for the same
reason it necessarily follows that those who determine the
destinatioi of* the freight cannot deprive it of its quality of
interstate commerce by the form which they may elect to
give to the transaction. Cutting v. Fla. Ry. & Nay. Co.,

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA Ft RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 409
204 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

46 Fed. Rep. 641; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Ex parte
Kaehler, 30 Fed. Rep. 867; Houston Direct Navigation Co. V.
Insurance Co., 89 Texas, 1; State v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co.,
49 S. W. Rep. 252; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Fielder, 46 S. W. Rep.
633; G.1 C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ft. Grain Co., 72 S.W. Rep. 419.
The power to tax does not alone determine whether the transaction is one of interstate commerce. The decisions of the
courts have been more liberal in sustaining authority of the
State to tax than in cases where the attempted regulation of
the State applies directly to interstate shipments such as in
this case regulating the amount of the charge to be made by
the carrier.
Mr. Robert Vance Davidson, Attorney General of the State
of Texas, for defendant in error:
The Supreme Court of Texas did not err in its conclusion of
law in finding that the shipment in controversy from Tcxarkana, Texas, to Goldthwaite, Texas, was not an interstate
shipment, but originated and terminated in the State of Texas.
Interstate Commerce Act, §J; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S.457; Railroad Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 162
U. S.191; Newv York v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonogon,.188 U. S.
82, 92; Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S. 517; Railroad Co. v. Osborne, 10
U. S. App. 430; Bridge Co. v..Railway Co., 37 Fed. Rep, 613; Ft.
W. & D. C. Ry. Co. v. Whitehead, 6 Texas Civ. App. 595.
Transportation from a point in one State to a point in another
State constitutes interstate commerce; but when the commodity transported has reached the termination of its journey
and has been delivered to the consignee, it ceases to be a subject of interstate commerce and the subsequent shipment from
the point at which it has been delivered to another point in the
State, is an intrastate shipment. "Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S.517;
Ft. W. & D. C. Ry. Co. v. Vhitehead, 6 Texas C. C. A. 595; C.,
N. 0. & T. P. R. R. Co. v. Interstate-Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184;
S. C., Civ. App., 56 Fed. Rep. 925; C. & N. W. Railway Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912; Interstate Com. Comm. v. B. Z. &

C. Ry. Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 942; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Detroit,
etc., Ry. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 642; United States v. Interstate Com.
Comm., 81 Fed. Rep. 783; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Al. S.S.Co.,
86 Fed. Rep. 407; M. & I.R.R. Co. v. G. & S. S. R. R. Co., 1
Interstate Corn. Comm. Rep.30.
When the corn arrived at Texarkana and was delivered to
the consignee it became a part of the property situated within
the State of Texas and subject to the laws of that State. 17
Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed. 71; Robbins -,.Shelby Co.,
120 U. S. 497.
When commodities have been transported from a point without the limits of a State to a-point within the State, to which,
-under the contract of shipment, they were to be transported,
and the contract of shipment complied with, and ended, such
commodities have ceased to be articles of interstate commerce,
and are thereafter in all respects subject to the laws of the State
in which they may be, and this although the shipper may have
intended from the beginning that they were to be immediately
taken to some place . within the"State other than that to which
the carrier had contracted to convey them. The motives of
an importer or shipper can not be looked to for the purpose of
causing commodities to continue subjects of interstate commerce, which wodld have ceased to be such but for such motives.
The Texas & Pacific Railway Co., the carrier which transported the corn from Texarkana to Fort Worth, and the
plaintiff in error, which transported it from Fort Worth to
Goldthwaite, were not shown by the evidence to have had any
agreement with other carriers to transport said corn, by through
Lill of lading or in any other manner, and upon the receipt of
said corn at Texarkana, Texas, by the Texas & Pacific, it had
the right to demand and receive its Texas state rate to Fort
Worth, and the plaintiff in error its Texas state rate from.
Fort Worth to Goldthwaite, and neither of said railroads had
the right to-charge more or any other rate, or voluntarily coilVert a local shipment into an interstate shipment, especially

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RY. CO.'v. TEXAS. 411
.204 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

when such interstate shipment from Hudson, South Dakota,
to Texarkana, Texas, had terminated at Texarkana, and the
corn hadbeen there delivered; and it is immaterial what might
-have been the motives or intentions of any of the parties to
the transaction in the shipment of the, corn to Texarkana.
Interstate Com. Comm'. v. C., N. 0. Ry. Co., 66 Fed. Rep. 925;
C., N. 0. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 192; So.
,Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 200 U. S.! 553; Texas
&c. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; L. &
N.R. R. Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483;
United States v. Knight Co., 156 U. S& 13; Railway Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
Aelivered the opinion of the court.
The single question in the case is whether, as between
Texarkana and 'Goldthwaite, this was an interstate shipmeit. If so the regulations of the state railroad commission,
do not control, and the'court erred in enforcing the penalty.
If, however, 'it was a purely local shipment, the judgment
below was right and should be sustained.
The facts are settled by the special findings, 'those findings
being conclusive upon this court. Dower v. Richards, 151 .U.S.
658; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Thayer v. Spratt,-189 U. S.
346; Adams v. Church, 193. U. 5. 510; Clipper Mining Co. v.
Eli.Mining & LandCo., 194 U.S. 220.
The corn was carried from Texarkana, Texas, to Goldthwaite,
'Texas, upon a bill of lading which upon its face showed only a
local transportation. It is, however, contended by the railway company that this local transportation was a continuation
of a shipment from Hudson, South Dakota, to Texarkana,
Texas; that the place from which the corn started, was Hudson,
South Dakota, and the place at which the transportation ended
was Goldthwaite, Texas; that such transportation was interstate commerce, and that its interstate character was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

affected by the various changes of title or issues of bills of
lading intermediate its departure from Hudson and its arrival
at Goldthwaite.
It is undoubtedly true that the character of a shipment,
whether local or interstate, is not changed by a transfer of
title during the transportation. But whether it be one or -the
other may depend on the contract of shipment. The rights
and obligations of carriers and shippers are reciprocal. The
first contract of shipment in this case was from Hudson to
Texarkana. During that transportation a contract was made
at Kansas City for the sale of the corn, butothat did not affect
the character of the shipment from Hudson to Texarkana.
It was an interstate shipment after the contract of sale as well
as before. In other words, the transportation which was contracted for, and which was not changed by any act of the
parties, was transportation of the corn from Hudson to Texarkana-that is, an interstate shipment. The control over
goods in process of transportation, which may be repeatedly
changed by sales, is.one thing; the transportation is another
.thing, and follows the contract of shipment, until that is
changed by the agreement of owner' and carrier. Neither the
Harroun nor the Hardin company changed or offered to change,
the contract of shipment, or the place of delivery. The Hardin
company accepted the contract of shipment theretofore made
and purchased the corn to be delivered at Texarkana-that is,
on the completion of the existing contract. When the Hardin
company accepted the corn at Texarkana the transportation
contracted for ended. The carrier was under no obligations
to carry it further. It transferred the corn, in obedience to
the demands of the owner, to the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, to be delivered by it, under its contract with such
owner. Whatever obligations may rest upon the carrier at
the terminus of its transportation to deliver to some further
carrier, in obedience to the instructions of the owner, it is
acting not as carrier, but simply as a foi'warder. No new
,arrangement having been made for transportation, the corn

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 413
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was delivered to the Hardin company at Texarkana. Whatever may have been the though t or purpose of the Hardin
company in respect to the further disposition of the corn, was
a matter immaterial so far as the completed transportation was
concerned.
In this-,respect there is no difference between an interstate
passenger and an interstate transportation. If Hardin, for
instance, had purchased at Hudson a ticket for interstate
carriage to Texarkana, intending all the while after he
reached Texarkana to go on to Goldthwaite, he would not
be entitled on his arrival at Texarkana to a new ticket from
Texarkana to Goldthwaite at the proportionate fraction of
the rate prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission
for carriage from Hudson to Goldthwaite. The one contract
of the railroad companies having been finished he must make
a new contract for his carriage to Goldthwaite, and that would
be subject to the law ofthe State within which. that carriage
Was to be made.
The question may be looked at from another point of view.
Supposing a carload of goods was shipped from Goldthwaite
to Texarkana under a bill of lading calling for only Jthat transportation, and supposing that the laws of Texas required,
subject to penalty, that such goods should be carried in a particular kind of car, can there be any doubt that the carrier.
would be subject to the penalty, although it should appear
that the shipper intended After the goods had reached Texarkana to forward them to some other place outside the State?
To state the question in Other words, if the only contract of
shipment Was for local., transportation, would the state law in
respect to the mode of. transportation be set one'side by a
Federal law 'in "respect to interstate transportation on the
ground that the hipper intended after -the one contract of
shipment had been completed to. forward the goods to some
place outside the State? Coe v. Erro!, 116 U. S. 517-527.
Again, it appeared that this corn remained five days in Texarkana, The Hardin company was under no' obligation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U..S.

ship it further. It could in any other way it saw fit have provided corn for delivery to Saylor & Burnett, and unloaded
and used that car of corn iii Texarkana. It must be remembored that the corn was not paid for by the Hardin company
until its receipt in Texarkana. It was paid for on receipt and
delivery to the -Hardin company. Then, and not till then,
did the Hardin company have full title to and, control of, the
corn, and that was after the first contract of transportation .had
been completed.
It must further be remembered that no bill of lading Was'
issue([ from Texarkana to Goldtlwaite until after the' arrival
of the corn at Texarkana, the completion of the firstcontract
for transportation, the acceptance and payment by the Hardin
company. In many cases-it would work the grossest injustice
to a carrier if it could not rely on the contract of shipment it
has made, know whether it: was bound to obey the state or
Federal law, or, obeying the forniier, find 'itself mulcted in
penalties for not obeying the law of the other jurisdiction,
simply because the shipper intended a transportation beyond
that specified iii. the contract. It must be remembered that
there is no presumiption that-a transportation when commenced
is to be continued beyofid the state limits and the carrier
ought to be able to depend upon the contract which it-has made
and nmust conform to the liability imposed by that contract.
We see no orror in the proceedings afid the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Texas is
Affirmed.

