OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

whether they have received voidable preferences and have
not been required to surrender them. The broad effect of
the contention repels it as unsound. To yield to it would
transfer- the administration of a bankrupt's estate from the
United States District Court to the state court.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 164.

Argued January 17, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the state court expressly decides, adversely to contention of plaintiff
in error that a statute of the United States does not preclude others from
asserting rights' against him, but does preclude him from asserting rights
against them, a Federal question exists giving- this court jurisdiction to
review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Where an incorporeal interest of the bankrupt in a contingent remainder
passed to the assignee in bankruptcy under a petition filed in 1878., and
no notice to the trustees was necessary, the fact that the assignee brought
no suit to establish his right to the bankrupt's interest in the fund for
more than two years does not bar his claim thereto under § 5057,.
Rev. Stat.; but under that section all persons who had not brought suits
within two years against the assigned to assert their rights to the property are barred. Nor will the assignee be presumned to have abandoned
the property simply because he did riot sell it; when, as in this case, he
brings an action to protect his interest therein.
189 Massachusetts, 45, affirmed.

THE defendant in error Whittredge, who was trustee of
certain property held in trust under the will of Solon 0. Richardson, who died in 1873, filed this bill for instructions in
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Massachusetts.
There was bequeathed by said will $35,000, on the following trusts:
"The income to be paid to his three sisters for life, namely,

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Mary A. Sweetser, Martha Hutchinson and Louisa Richardson;
and 'at the decease of my said sisters, or either of them, my
will is that the share belonging to the deceased sister shall
revert to her children, to be shared by them each and each
alike; if either of my said sisters shall die childless, the income
belonging to her I direct shall revert to the said sisters surviving, to be shared equally between them. At the decease
of all my three said sisters, I direct that the fund from which
they have derived an income from my property be divided
equally between the children of my said sisters, and I direct
my executors to pay to them- each their respective part, the
same to be the property of the children of my said sisters
forever.' "
The three life tenants survived the testbtor. Louisa never
had any child; Martha Hutchinson had one child; Mary A.
Sweetsvr had one child, a son, Elbridge L. Sweetser. He and
the child of Martha were born in the lifetime of the testator.
Mary A. Sweetser survived her sisters, leaving her son and
niece surviying her.
This bill was brought February 1, 1901, to determine who
was entitled to receive Elbridge L. Sweetser's half of the fund,
whether his assignees in bankruptcy, appointed in proceedings
instituted by him in 1878, by voluntary petition in bankruptcy
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, or the plaintiff in error, who claims under an
equitable attachment made in 1881, as hereafter stated, and
an-assignment made in October, 1885, to secure two debts
incurred after Sweetser's bankruptcy. There are other
defendants besides the plaintiff in error, but their rights are
not before .us.
The facts are stipulated, and the most pertinent are the
following:
On February 23, 1878, Elbridge L. Sweetser filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy in the District Court of the
United States, District of Massachusetts, and was on that day
adjudged a bankrupt. On the sixteenth of March, 1878,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

William B. H. Dowse and Horace P. Biddle were appointed
the assignees of his estate, and there was duly conveyed to
them all the estate which the bankrupt owned or was entitled
to on February 23, 1878.
During the year 1878 claims amounting to $13,940.47 were
proved against the estate. No.other claims have since been
proved.
The only assets disclosed by Sweetser in his schedules consisted of a stock of goods subject to nortgage. The proceeds
of these goods were consumed in paying the mortgage and
certain expenses of the assignees, and the balance, of about
$280, was paid to the assignees on account of services.
The Florence Machine Company, in 1881, filed a bill in
equity against Elbridge L. Sweetser and Solon 0. Richardson,
then -the sole trustee of Solon 0. Richardson, deceased, to
reach and apply in payment of five notes held by that company against Sweetser, his equitable interest under the will
of said deceased. The suit was brought under the provision
of General Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 113, sec. 2, and, is
called equity suit No. 386. Subpcna was issued November 28,
1881, and served on Sweetser and Richardson, trustee, November 29, 1881. Sweetser filed an answer February, 1, 1882,
in which, among other things, he denied that he had any such
interest under the will as could be reached and applied to the
payInefit of the claim of the company, and also denied the
validity of' the claim, but did not deny inaking the notes.
On the same date Solon 0. Richardson, trustee, also filed an
answer, setting up the proceedings ih bankrtiptcy and the
appointment of .assignees, and suggested that any interest that Sweetser had in the fund passed to them. The suit
is still pending, no hearing upon the merits havingever been
had.
In 1882 the assignees filed a bill in equity' against Sweetser
and Solon 0. Richardson then the sole trustee under the
will of said Solon 0. Richardson, in the United States District
Court, alleging an interest in Sweetser in the fund, that it had

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

accrued before the bankruptcy, but was not set forth in his
schedule of property,, and that they had no knowledge of such
interest until a few days before filing the bill. The bill prayed,
among other things, "that the said Elbridge L. Sweetser
migbt be directed to execute and deliver such instruments.as
would convey to said assignees all of his interest as-legatee
under the said will, and that the said trustee, Solon 0. Richardson, might be enjoined from paying to the said Elbridge L.
Sweetser, or any person or persons claiming under him, any
part. of the said trust fund, or the income thereof, which
might accrue and become payable to the said Elbridge L.
Sweetser,"
On November 15, 1882, the Florence Machine Company,
by its attorney, Warren 0. Kyle, filed a general replication
in suit No. 386.
On December 2, 1882, Sweetser and Solon 0. Richardson,
trustee, filed general demurrers to the bill. No hearing,
however, has ever been had in the case, either upon the demurrers or the merits, and the case is still pending.
On October 24, 1885, Sweetser executed and delivered to
the Monitor Oil Stove Company a note for $1,809 and a note
to Solon 0. Richardson, individually, for the sum of $506.05.
As a security for said notes Sweetser gave a written mortgage
or assignment, under seal, of all his interest under the will
of Solon 0. Richardson, deceased, to Richardson and the
company. Sweetser's wife signed the notes and mortgage
as joint. maker. Notice of the mortgage assignment was
acknowledged by, William Morton, the then trustee under the
will. On the same day Sweetser and his wife conveyed to
one Sidney P. Brown their interest under the will, subject
to the mortgage, and Brown conveyed to Hannah Sweetser.
Notice of these conveyauces was acknowledged by said trustee
William Morton.
On October 24, 1885, the Florence Machine Company
brought an action at law in the Superior Court of Suffolk
County against Sweetser, in which the then assignees in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

bankruptcy were summoned as trustees, to recover the sum
of $7,620.13, amount due on eight promissory notes which
had been proved in his bankruptcy proceedings, and also
to recover upon an account based on ledger entries made
by the company in 1881. The assignees in bankruptcy were
duly served with process, but did not appear, and were defaulted.
On October 26, 1885, in equity suit No. 386, Solon 0.- Richardson, trustee, filed a further answer, stating that he had
resigned as trustee, and that William Morton had been appointed sole trustee and had accepted the trust.
On June 16, 1891, on motion of W. B. H. Dowse, Warren' 0.
Kyle was joined with him as a party plaintiff in the suit of
Dibble et al. v. Sweetser, in the United States District Court,
and Daniel G. Walton, the then trustee under the will, was
summoned as a defendant. He accepted service July 30,
1891, and on November 4, 1891, filed a general demurrer to
the bill.
On April 19, 1893, the Florence Machine Company was
dissolved by an act of the legislature, c. 215 of the Acts of 1893.
On August 13, 1894, the Florence Machine Company filed
a motion in equity suit No. 386 that Daniel G. Walton, who
had become trustee of the trust under the will of Solon 0.
Richardson, deceased, and the then assignees in bankruptcy,
Dowse and Kyle, might be made parties defendant and summoned to answer the plaintiff's bill. Service was made on
Walton August 18, 1894, and accepted by the assignees August 30. In September, 1894, Walton's appearance was
entered. On May 15, 1899, Hammond, plaintiff in error,
having become assignee of the claim in suit, entered his appearance for the plaintiff, and also entered his appearance pro se,
,and filed a motion setting forth the assignment to him of the
claim and asking to be permitted to prosecute the suit in his
own name.
May, 1899, the assignees filed an answer, alleging upon
information and belief that Sweetser had at the time of the

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

assignment in bankruptey'a vested interest in the trust fund
under the will of Richardson, and that by. the operation of
the United States bankruptcy act said interest had been
transferred to them.
On February 1, 1901, William W. Whittredge, being then
the sole succeeding trustee under said will, filed this suit for
instructions. On April 22, he was summoned to appear as
party defendant in the case of Dibble et al. v. Sweetser et al.,
in the United States District Court. He accepted service
and appeared by counsel June 12, 1901. July 1, 1901, Hammond filed a petition in said case to be made a party. In the
petition he alleged, among other things, that the assignees
were not entitled to Sweetser's interest as against him as
assignee of the Florence Machine Company; among other
reasons, because such rights as said assignees had, if any, were
barred by, the statute of limitations. U. S. Rev. Stat. § 5057.
Whittredge, trustee, also filed an answer, alleging the pendency
of the suit in equity No. 386, brought by the Florence Machine
Company, and that his predecessor had been made a party
therein; and also alleging that he, Whittredge, had filed this
suit for instrUction , and also that the right of action of the
assignees was-barred by the limitations of law.
On February 10, 1904 (the said assignees Dowse and Kyle
having disputed the right of said John C. Hammond. to be
subrogated to the rights-of the Florence Machine Company
as to the claims proved by said company against the estate
in bankruptcy of said Sweetser in 1878, and having petitioned
to have said claims expunged), the United States District
Court made a decree in favor of said Hamfmond.
The decree has since been affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals.'. Dowse et al. v. -Hammond, 130 Fed.
Rep. 103.
The suit in equity in. the United States District Court,.
brought by the assignees of Sweetser in the first bankruptcy,
has been continued from time. to time at the request, of the
assignees, who have'appeared for that purpose at the callings
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

of the docket to await the termination of the life interests in
the trust fund.
As already stated, no hearing has been had either upon the
said demurrers or upon the merits.
That part of the trust fund held by Whittredge, as trustee,
which is the subject matter of this suit, consists of property
worth about $18,000.
The Supreme Judicial Court decreed that Sweetser's interest
in the fufnd passed to his assignees in bankruptcy. 189
Massachusetts, 45. And it was decreed that Hammond,
as assignee of the Florence Machine Company and as assignee
of the Monitor Oil Stove Company, had "no rights in said
equitable interest either by reason of the provisions of the
United States Revised Statutes, § 5057, or otherwise."
Mr. Hollis R. Bailey, for plaintiff in error, submitted:
Under §§'5044, 5045, 5046, Rev. Stat., the bankrupt Sweetser, in November, 1881, had such title to the asset in question that the Florence Machine Company could, by making
an equitable attachment, render it necessary for the assignees
to take proper steps to resist the same.
A bankrupt has a good title to his assets as against all the
world except his assignees in bankruptcy. Under the later
English law a bankrupt may maintain an action against a
debtor, unless there is interference on the part of the assignees.
Clark v. Calvert, 3 J. B. Moore, 96, 112; Herbert v. Sayer,
5 Q. B. 965, 975; Semple v. Railway Co., 2 Jurist. 296; Fyson v.
Chambers, 9 M. & W. 460; and as to the law in Massachusetts,
see Gay v. Kingsley, 11 Allen, 348; Mayhew v.. Pentecost,
129 Massachusetts, 332; Herring v. Downing, 146 Massachusetts, 10. The Federal law is similar. Amory v. Lawrence,
3 Clifford, 523; Taylor v. Irwin, 20 Fed. Rep. 615; Glenny v.
Langdon, 98 U. S. 20; Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U. S. 1, 13;
Sessibns v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 51.
The attachment made by the Florence Machine Company
rendered it necessary for the assignees at their peril to inter-

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
204 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

vene and contest the same within two years under § 5057,
Rev. Stat., as to the scope whereof see Bailey v. Glover, 21
Wall. 342, 346; Rock v. Dennett, 155 Massachusetts, 500;
Pritchard v. Chandler, . Curtis C. C. 488; Walker v. Towner,
16 N. B. R. 285, 287; Avery V.Cleary, 132 U. S. 604, all of
which hold that it applies to adverse claims made by third
parties after the bankruptcy, and that assignees are bound to
dispute such claims within two years of the time when they
are asserted. Dushane v. Beall, 161 U. S. 513, did not overrule this rule, In re Conant, 5 Blatch. 54, nor can those cases
be considered as overruled.
Assuming that the assignees were not bound by § 5057,
Rev. Stat., to intervene within two years, they nevertheless
were bound to intervene at their peril within a reasonable
time. Squire v. Lincoln, 137 Massachusetts, 399; Taylor v.
Irwin, 20 Fed. Rep. 615.
They did' not intervene for over sixteen years and after the
expiration of two years it was reasonable for the bankrupt
and his subsequent creditors to assume that the assignees had
abandoned this asset. The interest of' Sweetser under the
will appeared of record in the probate court. There was no
fraudulent concealment of the asset by the bankrupt. No
examination was made of the bankrupt. He was allowed
to obtain his discharge. Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U. S. 1,
14; Taylor v. Irwin, 20 Fed. Rep. 615, 618.
The assignees' rights were not preserved by the suit of
Dibble v. Sweetser, as the Florence Machine Company was not
a party thereto, or, so far as appears, ever heard of it until
twenty years later.
Mr. Warren Ozro Kyle, with whom Mr. Fred Joy was on
the brief, for defendants in error, the assignees in bankruptcy:
Nothing in the record shows lack of diligence by the assignees.
The failure to schedule the property and concealment of it
from the assignees in bankruptcy for several years was clearly
in fraud of the bankrupt law, and cannot constitute such an
VOL. cciv-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

204 U. S.

immunity as to deserve protection under the judiciary act
or any other law of the United States.
A plaintiff bringing a bill in equity under the provisions
of the Public Statutes, c. 151 § 2,cl. 11, and the statute of
1884, c. 285, § 1, to reach property of the debtor which cannot be come at to be attached or taken on execution in a suit
at law against such debtor, does not thereby acquire a lien
on the property which will prevent it passing to an assignee
in insolvency. Trow v. Lovett, 122 Massachusetts, 571;
Squire v. Lincoln, 137 Massachusetts, 399; Powers v. Raymond, 137 Massachusetts, 483; Fish v. Fiske, 154 Massachusetts, 302, 304. ,
Section 5057, Rev. Stat., does not apply to "acase like the
present. Dushane v. Beall, 161 U. S.513.
This is not a suit between an assignee in bankruptcy and
a person claiming an adverse interest. The petitioner, who
is the trustee under the will, claims no adverse interest and
does not plead the statute. Nash v. Nash, 12 Allen, 345;
Minot v. Tappan, 127 Massachusetts, 333, 338; In re A. H.
English, 6 Fed. Rep. 276.
All statutes of limitation begin to run from the time the
cause of action accrues, and, in this case, could not run until
the right to the possession of the Sweetser half of the fund
fell to the assignees, on the death of the bankrupt's mother,
the last survivor of the testator's three sisters. Perry on
Trusts, §'860; French v. Merrill, 132 'Massachusetts, 525,
527, and cases there cited.
As it was necessary to await the termination of the life interests before any one claiming through the remainderman
could claim possession'of the fund, the assignees. in bankruptcy have not been remiss, and the delay, if any, has not
operated to the prejudice of anybody, hence there has been
no laches. Haven v. Haven, 181 Massachusetts, 573, 579;
Tucker v.. Fisk, 154 Massachusetts, 574, 579, and cases cited;
Ryder v. Loomis, 161 Massachusetts, 161, 163; Beale v. Chase,
31 Michigan, 532; New York Bank Note Co. v. Hamilton

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 28 N. Y. App. Div. 411; Ulman v. Clark, 75 Fed. Rep.
868.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss, which, we think, should be
denied. Plaintiff in error sets up rights under § 5057 Rev.
Stat., which were adjudged against him. The court said:
"The defendant Hammond admits that when the testator
died Elbridge had either a vested remainder in one-half of
the trust fund of $25,000 subject to the life estates created
by this item of the will, and subject to the class being opened
on the birth of further child or children of the life tenants,
or a vested interest in a contingent remainder, and that 'in
either case' his interest was 'assignable.'
"His contention, however, is that the assignees are -barred
by U. S. Rev. Sts. § 5057. '
The court decided against the contention, and decided,
besides, that "the title of the assignees in bankruptcy became
complete on the assignment to them of this interest in remainder," and that "the ownership drew after it the possession,"
which has continued ever since, "and all persons are barred
by U. S. Rev. Sts. § 5057, from controverting it." In other
words, the court decided that § 5057, did not preclude the
assignees from asserting rights against plaintiff in error, but
precluded him from asserting rights against them. Defendants in error, however, urge that the court's decision resulted
from facts found or admitted. and from general principles of
-law, and "there remained in the case no question as to any
title, right, privilege or immunity under a statute of the
United States; and that the court expressly declined to choose
'between the opinion in Dushane v. Beale, 161 U. S. 513,
and the decision in Rock v. Dennett, 155 Massachusetts, 500.' "
But rights under a statute of the United States were claimed
by plaintiff in error and that statute was referred to by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Supreme Judicial Court and was an element in its decision.
We think also that the decree rendered was final for the purposes of this writ of error. .We therefore overrule the motion
to dismiss and go to the merits.
On the merits nine errors are assigned, but plaintiff in error
asserts that the questions really involved are only four, namely
Had Sweetser such "amount of title" in the trust fund that
the -Florence Machine Company could make an equitable
attachment? Did § 5057, render it necessary for the assignees
to intervene and contest the attachment within two years?
If not within two years, then within a reasonable time? Was
the machine company, in November, 1881, barred by § 5057
from bringing the attachment suit?
Section 5044 of the Revised Statutes required the register
in bankruptcy to transfer by instruments under his hand
all of the estate of the bankrupt. The assignment related
back to the commencement of the proceedings, and operated
to vest the title in the assignee. Section 5046, in most comprehensive terms, vested in the assignees all rights in equity
and choses in action which the bankrupt had, and 5047, all
of his remedies. Section 5057 reads as follows:
"No suit either at law or in equity shall be maintainable
in any court between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person
claiming any adverse interest touching any property or rights
of property transferable to or vested in such assignee unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrues for or against such assignee."
Under these provisions the contention of plaintiff in error
is, that, notwithstanding the bankruptcy and the broad
language of the sections referred to, Sweetser had an interest
in the trust fund that could be assigned or attached, and in
such way a title could be acquired good against all the world
except 'the assignees, and good against the assignees by their
inaction within the time prescribed by § 5057, or by their
abandonment. Applying this principle plaintiff in error
contends that "three years having elapsed without anything

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
204 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

having been done by the assignees in the way of disposing
of this equitable asset, the bankrupt, in November, 1881, had
such an amount of title that he could have brought a suit
against the trustees under the will to obtain his share, assuming that the contingency had then happened upon which the
right to a distribution depended." And that Sweetser,
having such title, it followed, it is contended, that the Florence
Machine Company, a subsequent creditor, could make an
equitable attachment and make it incumbent upon the assignees
to assert their rights within two years, in accordance with
§5057. The Supreme Judicial Court met this contention by
the effect of the local law. The court said: "
"The title of the assignees in bankruptcy became complete
on the assignment to them of this interest in remainder.
In this commonwealth notice to the trustees is not necessary
to complete the title of an assignee of an interest in the property held in trust by them. Thayer v. Daniels, 113 Massachusetts, 129, and cases there cited. See also Putnam v. Story,
\132 Massachusetts, 205; Butterfield v. Reed, 160 Massachusetts,
361. By virtue of the assignment in bankruptcy, the complete ownership in this incorporeal interest in this personal
property became vested in the assignees, and the ownership
drew after it possession, so far as the interest here in question
(an incorporeal interest because an interest in remainder) is
capable of possession. This result is not affected by the fact
that the assignees were for a time ignorant of the existence
of this property of the bankrupt. This ownership and, possession in the assignees has continued ever since, and all persons
are barred by U. S. Rev. Sts. § 5057, from controverting it.
The contention that one in possession of property is barred
from exercising the rights, which that ownership confers on
the owner, by not having brought an action, is groundless.
Under these circumstances we have not found it necessary
to choose between the opinion in Dushane v. Beale, 161 U. S.
513, and the decision in Rock v. Dennett, 155 Massachusetts,
500."

OCTOBER TERM, 19Q6.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The cases referred to are antagonistic in their construction
of § 5057. In Rock v. Dennett, it was held that the limitations
expressed by that. section applied to adverse claims arising
after the assignment in respect to property vested in the
assignee.
In Dushane v. Beale, 161 U. S. 513 the court said: "That
limitation [Section 5057, Rev. Stat.] is applicable only to
suits growing gut of disputes in respect of property and of
rights of property of the "bankrupt which came to the hands
of the assignee to -which adverse claims existed while in the
hand§ of the bankrupt and before assignment."
Defendant in error contends for the construction expressed
in Rock Y. Dennett, 155 Massachusetts, 500 against that expressed in Dushane v. Beale, and insists that the latter ease
does not overrule prior cases upon which Rock v. Dennett
was based. We will not stop to reconcile Dushane v. Beale,
with prior cases. It is a later utterance by this court, and
disposes of the contention of plaintiff in error based on
§ 5057', Rev. Stat.
The Supreme Judicial Court also found adversely to plaintiff in error's contention that the assignees had abandoned
the property. The court said: "The only other contention
made by the defendant Hammond is equally . groundless,
to wit, that the assignees abandoned this property. The
contention is put on the ground that they did not sell their
interest in remainder in this fund. Were that all that appeared the argument would be without merit. But that
is not all." And, referring to the suit brought by the assignees in the District Court in 1882, said further: "This bill
apparently was brought by the assignees as soon as they
learned of the existenee of the fund and of the fact that creditors of Elbridge were seeking to reach and apply this interest
of Elbridge in satisfaction of the debt due from him to them.
The bringing of this bill -(which seems to have been a bill
in the nature of a bill quia timet) disposes of the-contention

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. SMITH.

551

Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

that it was in fact the intention of the assignees to abandon
this property."
We think that the record sustains the conclusion of the
court.
These views dispose of all the questions in the case.
Decree affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SMITH, HUGGINS & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 198.

Argued January 31, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

If a party relies upon a Federal right he must specially set it up. The mere
denial of a carrier, sued for damages to merchandise, that it was bound by
contracts of the initial carrier, or that it was the connecting and ultimate
carrier of the merchandise and bound "by the law" to receive and
forward the merchandise, does not, in the absence of any other reference
thereto, raise a Federal question under the Interstate Commerce Act
which gives this court jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709,
Rev. Stat.
While the certificate of the presiding judge of a state court can make more
certain and specific what is too general and indefinite in the record it
cannot give jurisdiction to this court under § 709, Rev. Stat;, where
there is nothing in the record in the way of a Federal question to specialize
and make definite and certain.
THIS suit was brought in the Chancery Court for the county
of Jefferson, State of Tennessee, by defendant, in error against,
the plaintiff in error and the Southern Railway Company, for
damages alleged to have been received by the defendant in
error to certain carloads of corn shipped over the Southern
Railway Company from certain points- in Tennessee to be
delivered to defendant in error or its order 'at Birmingham,
Alabama.
The bill alleged that at the time of the shipments the two

