OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

EAU CLAIRE NATI'ONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMi, COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 163.

Argued January 16, 17, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the bankrupt, within four months of the petition, mortgages his
property to a creditor having knowledge of his insolvency and thereafter
conveys it to a third party subject to the mortgages and the creditor
forecloses and as a result of the transaction'obtains a greater percentage
on his clam than other creditors of the same class, the transaction amounts
to a voidable preference and the trustee can recover from the creditor
the value of the property so transferred.
A trustee in bankruptcy can maintain a suit to recover the value of a voidable preference without first electing to avoid such preference by notice
to the creditor receiving the preference and demand for its return.
A demand is not necessary where it is to be presumed that it would hav ebeen- unavailing.
The right of the trustee in bankruptcy to recover property obtained in
fraud of the bankruptcy act.is not varied by how the property would
be administered and distributed between the different classes of creditors;
all creditors, whether general or preferred, are represented by the trustee.
Where there is a voidable preference the creditor receiving it cannot, in a
suit of the trustee in the state court to recover the value thereof, litigate
,the validity of other claims against the bankrupt and whether other
creditors. have received, and not heen required to surrender, preferences.
125 Wisconsin, 465, affirmed.

THis action was brought by defendant in error, hereafter

called the. trustee, in the Circuit Court of Eau Claire County,
State of Wisconsin, against the plaintiff in error, hereafter
called the bank, under section 60b of the bankrupt act of 1898,
to recover the value of property which, it is alleged, was
transferred by the bankrupt to the bank, for the purpose of
giving the latter. a preference, over othei creditors. Judgment
was recovered by the trustee, which, on appeal, was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 125 Wisconsin, 465.
Thereupon this writ of error, was sued out.
The complaint of the trustee alleges that on the seventh of'
June, 1902, John H. Young duly 'filed his petition in .bank-

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

523

Statement of the Case.

ruptcy in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Wisconsin,, pursuant to the act of Congress, and
was on said day duly declared a bankrupt. Subsequently defendant in error was duly elected and appointed by the creditors of the bankrupt as trustee in bankruptcy, and duly
qualified as such trustee.
The plaintiff in error is and was at all the times mentioned
in the complaint a national bank. Young, during the four
months immediately preceding the filing of his petition, was
the owner and in possession of certain lumber, shingles, and
lath, located at Cadott, Chippewa County, Wisconsin, and
certaip logs in or near the Yellow river and Chippewa river
in Chippewa County, which were reasonably worth the sum
of thirty-five thousand dollars. The value of all other property owned by him did not exceed the sum of $500.
On the tenth of February, 1892, Young was wholly insolvent, and owed debts which largely exceeded the value of his
property, which fact was well known to him and the bank.
The aggregate amount of his indebtedness exceeded the sum
of $40,000, and the value of his property was substantially
$35,000. He was indebted to the bank in the sum of $27,000
for moneys borrowed from time to time for a period of about
two years previous to that time. On said day Young executed
to the bank a chattel mortgage on 2,100,000 feet of saw logs,
to secure the sum of $15,900, then owing from him to the
bank, and also executed a chattel mortgage, transferring
1,000,000 feet of lumber, about 600,000 shingles and about
200,000 lath, to secure the sum of $11,100, owing by him to
the bank. This indebtedness existed long prior to said mdrtgages, and the property transferred constituted substantially
all of the property then owned by Young not exempt from
execution, which facts were well known by him and the bank.
The effect of the foreclosure of the mortgages would be to
enable the bank to obtain a much larger percentage of its debt
than would the other creditors of Young in the same class as
the bank. The mortgages were given by Young and taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

by the bank 'for the sole purpose of hindering and delaying
the other creditors, and were executed and received for that
purpose, and the bank at the time of their execution had
reasonable cause to believe that they were given with the
intention to give it a preference over other creditors.
The Waters-Clark Lumber Company is a corporation of
the-State of Minnesota, and D. S. Clark is the president thereof
and also a director in the bank, and W. K. Coffin is the cashier
of' the latter. On or about the tenth of. March, 1902, Coffin,
acting for the bank, requested Young to transfer to the lumber company, for the benefit of the bank, all of the property
embraced in the mortgages, together with certain other property. Pursuant to such request Young did, on or about the
tenth of March, 1902, transfer, by absolute bills of sale, to
the lumber company all of the property described in the
mortgages, and other saw logs owned by him. The property
transferred, was reasonably worth the sum of $35,000. Immediately on the execution of the bills of sale the lumber
company, acting pursuant to the directions by and in behalf
of 'the bank, took possession of the property transferred, and
thereafter sold the same and applied the proceeds to the
payment of the indebtedness secured by the mortgages.
At the time the, bills of sale were made the lumber company
and the bank thought the 'property transferred constituted
all bf the available assets of Young, and that the result of
such- transfer and' the appropriation of, the proceeds thereof
would result in the other creditors of. Young losing all of his
indebtedness to them. The lumber company, acting as vendee of said property, was in reality acting as trustee for the,
bank, and made such pretended purchase with the under'standing and agreement with the bank and Young that it
would account to the bank for the proceeds of the property
transferred to the amount of his indebtedness, and that any
sums realized in excess of his indebtedness
should be paid
to Young. The bills of sale were not executed in compliance
'with the statues of the State. Except as to the agreement

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

525

Statement of the Cast;.

to pay* said indebtedness, no consideration was paid by the
lumber compaly for the property, and at the time of the
transfer of the property nothing was paid to Young therefor.
By reaso.'l of said transactions the bank within four' months
appropriated to the payment of its claims substantially all
of the property of Young, which at said time was and has been
ever since worth $35,000. There is no other property in the
possession of the trustee, , belonging to Young, out of Which
his other' creditors can be .paid.
The bank demurred to the complaint- on the following
grounds: The court had no jurisdiction of the subject of the
action; the trustee had no legal capacity to sue, in that the
complaint did not allege that 'authority or permission was
given him to bring suit; defect of parties, in that Young and
the lumber company were not made parties; and that the
complaint did not state a cause of action. The demurrer
was overruled, and the bank, availing itself of the permission
granted, filed 'an answer, in which it admittedts corporate
characterand that of the lumber company, and the execution
of the mortgages and the bills of sale, and that the instruments
were not executed in the manner provided by the statutes
of the State. It denied all the other allegations of the com-,
plaint, and alleged that a portion of the proceeds of the sale
of the property was paid to the bank to discharge valid and
existing liens which it held against the property. And it
alleged that the mortgages were given for a good and valuable
consideration, and that neither of them nor the payments
'to the bank were made or received for the purpose of giving
the bank a preference over other: creditors of Young, "contrary to the provisions of the bankruptcy laws," and "that,
prior to the commencement, of this action, the plaintiff commienced an action 'in this court against 'said Waters-Clark
Lumber Company to recover from said Waters-Clark Lumber
Company the purchase price of logs and other material. sold
'by said-Young to said Waters-Clark Lumber Company, and
thereby elected to treat and consider said contract between

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

said Young and said Waters-Clark Lumber Company as
legal and valid, and elected to look to and hold the said WatersClark Lumber Company, instead of this defendant, as liable
to said trustee for all sums of money which the said plaintiff
may be entitled to recover on account of the transactions
mentioned in plaintiff's complaint."
Questions were submitted to the jury covering the issues
in the case, except the value of the property, which, by stipulation of parties, was reserved for the court. The jury in
response to the questions found that at all the days mentioned in the complaint the property transferred at a fair
valuation was insufficient to pay Young's debts; that the
lumber company, acting for the bank and pursuant to the
arrangement between it and the bank, took the legal title
'to the lumber and logs for the benefit of the bank under an
agreement with it and Young to account to the bank for a portion of the proceeds; that it was the intention of Young, by
the execution of the mortgages and the transfer of the property, to give the bank a preference, and that the bank and
officers and agents had reasonable cause to believe that Young
intended to give it such preference and to enable it to obtain
a greater percentage of its indebtedness than any other of
his creditors of the same class would be able to obtain.
The court found that the lumber which was included in
the bank's mortgage was worth $3,452.85, and that a note
for that sum and value was given by the lumber company to
Young hnd by him transferred to the bank; that the Cadott
logs, included in the mortgage and sold by Young to the
lumber company, were worth $10,077.84; that the up-river
logs not included in the mortgage, but sold to the lumber.
company by Young, were worth, $11,055.84, and that a note
which was given as the net proceeds of the sale of both quantities of logs over and above certain labor liens was worth
$2,508.14. This. note was given by the lumber company
fo Young and transferred by him to the bank. The trustee
contended in the trial court that he was entitled to recover

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL. BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U.S.

527

Statement of the Case.

for the entire value of the logs and lumber, and that no credit
should be allowed the bank for the sums paid by it to discharge
certain liens on 'the. property for labor claims and unpaid
purchase money. The court rejected the contentions and
sum of $6,254.99. InI
gave judgment for the trustee in the
this sum was included the value of the notes.
The assignments of error are that the Supreme Court erred
in the following particulars: (1) In determining that the
domplaint stated a cause of action. (2) In determining that
the bank was liable for the value of the logs and lumber to
the extent of the chattel mortgage interest of the bank therein.
(3) In determining that the bank was liable, for having re-.
ceived a preference contrary to sections 60a and 60b of the
bankrupt act of July 1, 1898, as ."a,portion of its chattel
.mortgage interest in said logs, the sum of $1,335.62 as the
proceeds of the sale of the portion" of said logs known as the
'up-river logs,' on which logs said defendant never held any
-chattel mortgage and which logs wpre never transferred to
said defendant." (4) In determining that the bank. was
liable for the value and moneys it received as a preference,
although .the trustee had not elected to avoid such preference
by bringing suit to recover the same and had not elected to
avoid such preference in any manner. (5) And in holding
that in determining a question of preference it was immaterial
under the bankrupt act whether the bank and the other
creditors were of the same class, and in refusing to reverse
the judgment because of the error of the Circuit Court in
charging the jury that all of the creditors were of the same
class. (6) In its construction of the bankrupt act .in the
following particulars: (a) In holding that a transfer made
within four months of the bankruptcy proceedings, which
enabled a creditor to btain any portion of his debt, constituted a preference. '(b) That, although the effect of the
transfer in question did not operate to give the bank a greater
-percentage 'of its, debt than other creditors of the -same class,
such transfer constituted a preference. (c) In determining,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

by such rules of construction of the bankrupt act, that the
evidence was sufficient to establish that the bank had reasonable cause to believe that a preference was intended. (7), (8),
(9) In holding that the bank was liable for the full value of the
preference received in an amount in excess of what was necessary to pay all the other 'creditors of the bankrupt, and
claims of fictitious creditors and claims of creditors who had
themselves received preference, and in not limiting the recovery to such suin as would be sufficient to pay the claims of
creditors whose claims were provable. (10), (11) In affirming
the judgment against the bank and not rendering judgment
for it.
Mr. James Wickham, with whom Mr. Burr W.' Jones and
Mr.Frank R. Fdrr were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The luestions raised by the specification of errors are all
Federal questions, involving the construction of the Federal
bankrupt act. Most of the questions are shown by the
opinion of the state Supreme Court to have been there raised
and to have been decided adversely to the plaintiff in error,
and the other questions not expressly mentioned in the
opinion are shown by the certificate of the Chief Justice of
the state Supreme Court to,have* been specially set up and
raised and decided adversely to the plaintiff in error. Substantially all of the questions that were involved in the bank's
appeal to the state Supreme Court are the same questions
that are now involved on this writ of error.
In such a case this court has jurisdiction oh a writ of
error issued to review the judgment of a state court. Factors
& Traders Insurance-Co. v. Murphy, 111 U. S. 738; Traer v.
Clews, 115 U. S. 528; Dimock v. Revere Copper Co., 117 U. S.
559; Palmer v. Hussey, 119 U. S. 96; Winchester v. Heiskell,
119 U. S. 450; Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Dushane v.
Beallt 161 U. S. 513; McCormick v. Market National Bank,
165 U. S. 538; Farmers & Merchants Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189
U. S. 301; Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176; Kaufman v.

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

529

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Tredway, 195 U. S. 271; Thompson v. Fairbanks' 196 U. S.
516;,Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91.
The trustee has not elected to avoid, or brought suit to
recover, any preference that the bank may have -received,
and the judgment rendered therefor cannot be sustained.
A transaction resulting in a voidable preference does not
violate any law. The transaction is lawful when made subject to a possibility, of being defeated by subsequent events.
It continues to be lawful unless it is followed by an adjudication in bankruptcy within the statutory period. It continues to be lawful after that time unless the trustee elects
to avoid 'it. A preference is never void, but oily voidable,
and no one but the trustee can elect to avoid it. Dyer v.,
Kratzenstein, 92 N. Y. S. 1012; Lewis v. First-National Bank,
78 Pac. Rep. 990.
A creditor by merely receiving the voidable preference.
does not .violate .any legal or moral right. Swarts v. Fourth
National Bank, 117 Fed. Rep. 1, 11; Swarts v. Frank, 82
S. W. Rep. 60.
A creditor receiving a preference not voidable is given the
right of election by section 57g either to return what he received and file his claim with the other creditors, or else keep
what he has received and not file his claim. Pirie v. Chicago
Title & Trust Co., 182 U. S. 438.
Where the facts are in dispute as to whether or not a certain transaction constitutes a preference, the creditor receiving
the alleged preference is-by the bankrupt act necessarily
called upon to determine for himself whether he will return
what he has received and file his claim with other creditors,
or whether he shall- litigate that question and attempt to
hold what he has received, in which event, in most-cases, as
in the case at bar, the year allowed by § 57n in which to
file claims would expire without his claim being filed.
The bankrupt act contemplates that the trustee shall exercise his election as to whether or not he shall avoid a preference, and it also contemplates that the creditor receiving
VOL. ,civ-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

204 U. S.

such alleged preference must exercise an election as to, what
course he shall take. Until the trustee exercises his election,
no cause of action accrues. The creditor is not called upon
to elect what course he shall take until the trustee has acted.
It therefore follows that the trustee should exercise his'election and make his demand before commencing suit.
A complaint in such a case is insufficient where it fails to
allege such demand and refusal. Shuman v. Fleckenstein,
Fed. Cas. No., 12,826; Brooks v. McCracken, Fed. Cas. No.,
1932; Lyon v. Clark, 88 N. W. Rep. (Mich.) 1046; Wright v.
Skinner, 136 Fed. Rep. 694; CapitalNational Bank v. Wilkerson, 72 N. E. Rep. (Ind.) 247.
No fraud in the transactions was either proven or found
by the court or jury. Except in cases of fraud, and except
as to the right to recover a preference, the trustees take the
property of the bankrupt in the same plight and condition
that the bankrupt himself held it, and subject to all the equities imposed upon it in the hands of the bankrupt. Thompson v. Fairbanks,196 U. S. 516, 526; York ManufacturingCo. v.
Cassell,- 201 U. S. 344, 352, and cases there cited; Bankrupt
Act, § 60b.
A' payment to- a creditor who is entitled to priority by
reason of having a claim for wages, or by reason of his having
some claim placing him in a different class from other creditors,
does not constitute a preference. If other creditors are in a
subsequent class they are not injured by the transfer, and
therefore the enforcement of the transfer does not enable the
creditor receiving it to recover a greater percentage of his
debt than he is entitled to. Loveland on Bankruptcy, 2d ed.
587; Collier on Bankruptcy, 4th ed. 422; In re Henry C. King
Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 110; Doyle v. Milwaukee National Bank,
116 Fed. Rep. 295; Easton v. Garrison,82 S.W. Rep. (Tex.) 800.
Mr. C. 7'. Bundy, with whom Mr. R. P. Wilcox was on the
'brief, for defendant in error:
It was immaterial how the. preference was given. If through

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

531

Opinion of the Court.

the mortgages, bills of sale, agreement or otherwise, the
plaintiff in error was paid either directly by Young, or by
Waters-Clark Lumber- Company, who purchased his property, at any time within the prohibited period, and it reeived such payment with guilty knowledge, it is liable for
the amount it received. Sterns v. Trust Co., 112 Fed. Rep.
501; Western Tie Co. v. Brown, 129 Fed. Rep. 728; Schwartz v.
Bank, 117 Fed. Rep. 1; Woolen Co. v. Powell, 72 S. W. Rep.
723.
Courts have been frequently called upon to pass upon devices and schemes like the one at bar, intended t6 cover illegal
preferences, and uniformly hold that any schemhe resulting in
one creditor receiving, directly or indirectly, any part of his
debt, in excess of the amount other creditors of the Same class
would receive by an equal distribution, is void. In re Stein,
22 Fed. Cas. 1232; Fleming v. Andrews, 3 Fed. Rep. 632;
In re Beerman, 112 Fed. Rep. 664;.Bardes v. Bank, 98 N. W.
Rep. 284; Hackney v. Bank, 98 N. W. Rep. 412; Hackney v.
Hargrave, 98 N. W. Rep. 626; In re Belding, 116 Fed. Rep.
1016.
The whole question, however, as to whether or not the
officers of the bank had reasonable cause to believe that'
Young intended by the sale to give it a preference, or reasonable cause to believe that it'was getting a preference, is purely
a question of fact for the jury and the jury have found, on
ample evidence, against plaintiff in error. Crittendn v.
Barton, 69 N. Y. Supp. 559; Giddings v. Dodd, 10 Fed. Rep.
338; In re Forsyth, 9 Fed. Cas. 465; In re McDonough, 16 Fed.
Cas. 68; In re Eggert, 102 Fed. Rep. 735; In re Graham, 110
Fed. Rep. 135; Hackney .v. Clark Co., 94 N.. W. Rep. 822;
Bardes v. Bank, 98 N. W. Rep. 28.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that the record

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

presents nothing but questions of fact. It is contended
that neither in the pleadings of the bank nor in any way was
any right, privilege or immunity under a Federal statute
specifically set up or claimed in the state courts. The only
questions presented by the pleadings, it is urged, were, did the
bankrupt give the bank a preference, and did the bank accept
it with reasonable grounds to believe that a preference was
intended? The Supreme Court, however, considered the
pleadings to have broader meaning, and answered some of
the contentions of the bank by the construction it gave to
the bankrupt act. The case, therefore, comes within the
ruling in Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12. It was there said: "A
party who insists that a judgment cannot be rendered against
him consistently with the statutes of the United States,
may be fairly held within the meaning of § 709, to assert
a right and immunity under such statutes, although the
statutes may not give the party himself a personal or affirmative right that could be enforced by direct suit against his
adversary." See also Rector v. City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S.
405.
On the merits of the case we start with the facts established
against the bank, that the property of Young, at the time
he executed the chattel mortgages and when he executed the
deed to the lumber company, at a fair valuation was insufficient to pay his debts, and that by the execution of those
instruments and the transfer of his property effected thereby,
he intended to give the bank a preference over his other
creditors, and that the bank had reasonable cause to believe
that he intended thereby to give it a preference, and to enable
it to obtain a greater percentage of its debt than any other
creditor of Young of the same class. These, then, are the
prominent facts, and seemingly justified the judgment. Against
this result what does the bank urge? It urges, first, that
there is included in the judghent the sum of $1,335.62, the
net proceeds of the sale of certain logs, called the "up-river
logs," which, itis contended, were not covered by either of

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

533

Opinion of the Court.

the mortgages, and that the Supreme Court, in its opinion,
apparently supposed that those logs were covered by the mortgages, and erred in giving judgment therefor. This is a
misunderstanding of the opinion. While the court did not
explicitly distinguish between the mortgages and the deed
to the lumber company, we think it is clear that the court
regarded the deed, and what was to be done under it, as the
consummation of the "legal wrong," to use the language
of the court, which went back to the time of the mortgages.
In other words, that the up-river logs as well-, as the other
property were conveyed to the lumber company for the purpose of giving a preference to the bank.
The bank also attempts to urge against this conclusion the
different views expressed by the trial court and the Supreme
Court upon the finding of the jury as to the relation which
the lumber company. stood to the bank. The jury, found,
in answer to questions 4 and 5, that the lumber company,
acting for the bank, took the legal title for the benefit of the
latter under an agreement with Young and the bank to account to. it for a portion of the proceeds. The trial court
said that this was not a finding "that the lumber company
was the agent of the bank." The Supreme Court thought
that the' jury "pretty clearly decided" that the, bank was
a principal and the lumber company "a mere agent" in the
matter. It is true the Supreie. Court immediately added:
"However, the evidence seems to clearly establish that the
lumber company purchased the property from Young in the
regular course of business, without any understanding with
the defendant, other than that' its interest in the property
as mortgagee and claimant under numerous statutory labor
liens should be recognized, and the equivalent thereof in
money delivered to it out of the proceeds." And this was
deemed sufficient to accomplish the preference which Young
intended to give the bank. :The court passed over as not
important the distinction: between the notes given by the
lumber company to Young as the purchase price of the lumber.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

These minor matters out of the way, we come to the more
important contentions of the bank. These contentions are
expressed in the form of questions, the first of which is: "Can
a trustee in bankruptcy, under the provisions of the bankruptcy
act, lawfully maintain a suit to recover the value of a voidable preference without first electing to avoid such preference
by notice to the creditor receiving such preference, and by
demand for its return?"
It is urged by the bank that he cannot, and
to sustain
this contention, that a preference is not void but voidable.
And voidable solely at the election of the trustee, who must
indicate a purpose to do so. The argument is that a prcference being voidable, the creditor receiving it is not in default
until he fails to or refuses to surrender it on demand. Prior to
flat time his possession is rightful and lawful, and he is not
guilty of any wrong, tort or conversion. And the demand, it
is further urged, must be made before suit, for, it seems also to
be contended, that the creditor must be given an opportunity
to exercise the election given him by subdivision g of § 57 of the
bankrupt act to surrender the preference and prove his claim.
We say, "seems to be contended," because we are not clear that
counsel for the bank claims that the rights of a creditor under §57g depend upon the action of the trustee. Counsel say:
"The bankrupt act, therefore, contemplates that the trustee
shall exercise his election as to whether or not he shall avoid
a preference, and it also contemplates that the creditor receiving such alleged preference must exercise an election as
to what course he shall take. Until the trustee exercises his
election, no cause of action accrues. The creditor is not
called upon to elect What course he shall take until the trustoe
has acted. It therefore follows that the trustee should exercise his election and make his demand before commencing
suiit.';

And this, it is argued, is more than a mere question of
state practice, and involves the question whether the property consisting of the alleged preference is any part of the trust

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

535

Opinion of the Court.

estate. If it be intended by this to assert that the action of
the creditor under § 57g is to wait upon or depends upon the
action of the trustee under § 60, we do not assent, and nothing can be deduced, therefore, from the supposed relation of
those sections as to the necessity of a demand before suit.
We do not see how such a demand can even be an element
in the consideration of the creditor, whether he will surrender
the preference and prove his debt. The right of surrender
exists as well after suit as before suit. Keppel v. Tiffin Savings Bank, 197 U. S. 356.
Independently of such considerations, whether the election
by a trustee to avoid a preference should be exercised by a
demand before suit or can be exercised by the suit itself might
be difficult to determine if it were necessary on the record.
1 Chitty on Plead. 176, and cases cited; Shuman v. Fleckenstein, Fed. Cases, No. 12,826; Brooks v. McCracken, Fed.
Cases, No. 1932; Wright v. Skinner, 136 Fed. Rep. 694; Goldberg et al. v. Harlan, 67 N. E. Rep. 707. But we do not think
it is open to the bank to urge the first. The bank, it is true,
demurred to the complaint and urged as a ground of demurrer
the absence of an allegation of a demand. But the bank
did not stand on the demurrer. It answered, and not. only
traversed .the allegations of the plaintiff, but set up an independent defense, and showed that a demand would have
been unavailing, and a demand is not necessary where it is
to be presumed that it would have been unavailing. Davenport v. Ladd, 38 Minnesota, 545; Bogle v. Jordan, 39 Kansas, 31.
Besides, it appears that a demand was made before suit.
In determining from what date interest should be given the
trial court said: "There is evidence of a demand, but I think
only a short time elapsed until action was commenced, so
that it will make little, difference whether interest is computed
from the time of the demand or the commencement of the
action."
The trial court instructed the jury substantially, in the
words of subdivision a of section 60 of the bankrupt act, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

to when a debtor should be deemed to have given a preference, and, in explanation of the intention of the debtor,
said "to intend to prefer would be to make a transfer for the
purpose of enabling the bank to obtain a greater percentage
of its debt than any other debtors of the same class." And,
defining this class of creditors, said further, "so far as creditors'
rights are involved in this action, they are all of the same
class, by which is meant they would receive the same percentage of their claims. Claims for taxes or wages within
certain times so as to be preferred would be of a different
class. But claims of general creditors, like those approved
in the Young bankruptcy proceedings, are all of the same
class." The bank excepted, and assigned as error the charge
that all of the creditors were of the same class. Disposing
of the assignment the Supreme Court said: "Whether that
is right or wrong does not seem to in any way concern the
case. The action, as we have indicated is simply one in
trover to recover the value of property which, as is alleged,
was, in fraud of the bankrupt act, wrongfully converted by
defendant to its own use. Whether there was one or more
classes of creditors, and in what manner the property sought
to be recovered would, if the suit were successful, be administered, did not vary in the slightest degree the legal rights
of the plaintiff. If the property was obtained by the defendant in fraud of the bankrupt act, plaintiff was entitled
to recover the same, and this is the only question involved."
The bank contests this view, and contends that, if accepted,
"it would be impossible to ascertain whether or not the preference had been received without first determining the question of whether the enforcement of the transfer would enable
the bank to recover a greater percentage of its debt than
other creditors of the same class." But there is a question
of fact to be considered. It was a question of fact what
claims were proved against the estate. At the trial the
learned judge who presided described them in his instructions
as claims of general creditors. In his memorandum opinion

EAU CLAIRE NATIONAL BANK v. JACKMAN.
204 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

he said that from his minutes and the statements of the evidence in the briefs of counsel he was inclined to believe that
the point was not well taken, and that the evidence did not
show that the effect of the enforcement of the transfer would
be to enable the bank to obtain a greater percentage of its
debt than other creditors of the same class. The bank, in
its brief in this court, says, "certain other claims were filed
and allowed in the bankruptcy proceedings as preferred
claims. These were probably claims for wages after the time
of the transfers in question." In the list of claims referred
to some only are marked preferred. But, granting that they
all were, they were represented by the trustee.
The-other questions propounded by the bank are based on
the sixth assignment of error. We will not examine the
arguments of counsel for the bank in detail. Their fundamental contention is that the transfers to the bank were not
invalid as a preference if their enforcement would not operate
to give the bank a greater percentage of its debt than other
creditors of the same class would receive. And such, it is
further contended, was not the result, and it is intimated
that claims of possible and fictitious creditors were in effect
considered. But this contention encounters the facts found
by the jury and the trial court. We have already seen what,
in the opinion of the trial court, the evidence established as
to the effect of the transfers, and the jury found that Young
was insolvent at the time they were made, and that the purpose of their execution was to give the bank a preference
and to enable it to obtain a greater percentage of its debt
than other creditors of Young of the same class. These
findings were not disturbed by the Supreme Court, and we
must accept them as stating the facts established by the
evidence, although counsel seem to invoke an, examination
by us of the record against them. Taking them as true,
they show a case of preference and grounds to set it aside.
The bank also contends, in effect, that in such suit the validity
of all other claims against the bankrupt can be litigated and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

whether they have received voidable preferences and have
not been required to surrender them. The broad effect of
the contention repels it as unsound. To yield to it would
transfer- the administration of a bankrupt's estate from the
United States District Court to the state court.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMMOND v. WHITTREDGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 164.

Argued January 17, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Where the state court expressly decides, adversely to contention of plaintiff
in error that a statute of the United States does not preclude others from
asserting rights' against him, but does preclude him from asserting rights
against them, a Federal question exists giving- this court jurisdiction to
review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Where an incorporeal interest of the bankrupt in a contingent remainder
passed to the assignee in bankruptcy under a petition filed in 1878., and
no notice to the trustees was necessary, the fact that the assignee brought
no suit to establish his right to the bankrupt's interest in the fund for
more than two years does not bar his claim thereto under § 5057,.
Rev. Stat.; but under that section all persons who had not brought suits
within two years against the assigned to assert their rights to the property are barred. Nor will the assignee be presumned to have abandoned
the property simply because he did riot sell it; when, as in this case, he
brings an action to protect his interest therein.
189 Massachusetts, 45, affirmed.

THE defendant in error Whittredge, who was trustee of
certain property held in trust under the will of Solon 0. Richardson, who died in 1873, filed this bill for instructions in
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Massachusetts.
There was bequeathed by said will $35,000, on the following trusts:
"The income to be paid to his three sisters for life, namely,

