TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. CISCO OIL MILL.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
OIL MILL.
ERROR TO

THE

COURT

OF

CIVIL

APPEALS

v. CISCO

FOR THE

SECOND

SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 79.

Submitted November 2, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Texas & Pacific Railway v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., ante, p. 426, followed
as to abrogation by passage of Interstate Commerce Act of commonlaw remedy for recovery of unreasonable freight charges on interstate
shipment where rates charged were those duly fixed by the carrier according to the act and which had not been found unreasonable by Interstate Commerce Commission.
A tariff of rates of which schedules have been filed by a carrier with the
Interstate Commerce Commission and also with its freight agents is in force
and operative although the copies thereof may not have been posted in
the carrier's depots as required by the act.
Such posting is not a condition precedent to the establishment of the rates
but a provision for affording facilities to the public for ascertaining the
rates' actually in force.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. Winslow S. Pierce, Mr. David 1).
Duncan and Mr. Thomas J. Freeman, for plaintiff in error.'
Mr. John J. Butts, for defendant in error.1
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the' opinion of the court.

This writ of error is prosecuted to obtain the reversal of a
judgment for $641.69. with interest, entered in favor of the
Cisco Oil Mill by the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas upon the
reversal of a judgment of a district state court in favor of
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company. The action was
See abstracts of arguments in No. 78, involving similar questions aid'
argued by same counsel..
VOL. CCIv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

brought by the oil company to recover of the railway company
the principal sum just stated, because of alleged overcharges
by the railway company, paid by the oil :company under protest at the time of the delivery of four cars of cotton seed,
shipped in the month of September, 1901,. from towns in
Louisiana cast of Alexandria, in that State, to Cisco,, Texas.
The appellate court, after excluding as surplusage averments
in the petition "evidently designed to bring the case within
the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act," was of opinion
and decided the case upon the hypothesis that the petition
stated a valid cause of action. at common law for the recovery
of the suns coercively collected upon the delivery of the merchandise, in excess of a reasonable rate, and adopted the
finding of the trial court as to the amount of the unreasonable
exaction.
In its opinion the Court of Civil Appeals expressly declared
that the trial court had rendered judgment in favor of the
railway company because the rate demanded and collected
of the oil company "was in accord with appellee's rate sheets
and freight schedule which had been filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission and promulgated as provided by the
act of Congress." Deciding, however, that the case before
it presented "substantially the same questions, upon substantially the same state of facts" which had been passed on
in the case of Abilene Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas & Pacific Railway Company, -the court, for the reason given by it in that
case, reversed the trial court and rendered judgment in favor
of the Cisco Oil Mill.
The considerations which made necessary .our decision,
just announced, reversing the judgment of the Court of Civil
Appeals in the Abilene case, equally apply in the instant case'
and compel like action. And this result follows despite the
contention that a right of action existed, because it is assumed
no schedule rate was in existence when the shipments were
made. This was based on the claim that it was not affirmatively found below that the schedule of rates applicable to the

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. CISCO OIL MILL.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shipments in question had been posted as required by section 6
of the act to regulate commerce, noted in margin. 1
The assumption, it is insisted, is authorized because, it is
asserted, the conclusion that the schedule of rates became
legally operative was not justified by the finding that such
schedule had been filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and copies thereof furnished to the freight officers
of the railroad company at Cisco and other points. The contention is without merit. The filing of the schedule with
the commission and the furnishing by the railroad company
of copies to its freight offices incontrovertibly evidenced
that the tariff of rates contained in the schedule had been
established and put in force as mentioned in the first sentence
of the section, and the railroad company could not have been
heard to assert to the contrary. The requirement that schedules should be "posted in two public and conspicuous places
in every depot," etc., was not made a condition precedent
to the establishment and putting in force of the tariff of rates,
but was a provision based upon the existence of an established
rate, and plainly had for its object the affording of special
facilities to the public for ascertaining the rates actually in
force. ,To hold that the clause had the far-reaching effect
I First paragraph of section 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended
March 2, 1889 (25 Stat. L. 855):
"That every common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall
print and keep open to public inspection, schedules showing the rates and
fares and charges for the transportation of passengers and property which
any such common carrier has established and which are in force at the
time upon its route. The schedules printed as aforesaid by any such
common carrier shall plainly state the places upon its railroad between
which property and passengers will be carried, and shall contain the classification of freight in force, and shall also state separately the terminal charges
and any rules or regulations which'in any wise change, affect, or determine
any part or the aggregate of such aforesaid rates and fares and charges.
Such schedules shall be plainly printed in large type, and-copies for the
use of the public shall be posted in two public and conspicuous places in
every depot, station, or office of such carrier where passengers or freight,
respectively, are received for transportation, in such form that they shall
be accessible to the public and can be conveniently inspected."

OCTOBER TERM,. 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

claimed would be to say that it was the intention of. Congress
that the negligent posting by an employ6 of but one instead
of two copies oof the schedule, or the neglect to post either,
would operate to cancel the previously established schedule,
a conclusion impossible of acceptance. While section 6 forbade an increase or reduction of rates, etc., "which have been
established and published as aforesaid," otherwise than as
provided in the section; we think the publication referred
to was that which caused the rates to become operative; and
this deduction is fortified by the terms of section 10 of the
act making it a criminal offense for a common carrier or its
agent or a shipper or his employ6 improperly "to obtain
transportation for property at less than the regular rates
then established and in force on the line of transportation of
such common carrier."
Whether by the failure to post an established schedule a
carrier became subject to penalties provided in the act to
regulate commerce, or whether if damage had been .occasioned
to a shipper by such omission, a right to recover on that
ground alone would have obtained, we are not called upon
in this case to decide. .
The judgment belowi is reversed and the case remanded for
Jurther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

