OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabum.

204 U S.

interest in the property of the corporation, which might be in
other States than either the corporation or the certificate of
stock. But we.perceive no relevancy in the analysis. The
facts that the property sold is outside of the State and the
seller and buyer foreigners are not enough to make a sale commerce with foreign nations or among the several States, and
that is all that there is here.-On the general question there
should be compared with the drummer cases the decisions on
the other side of the line. Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How.-73;
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114
U. S. 622; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296. A tax is not
an unconstitutional regulation in every case where an absolute
prohibition of sales would be one. American Steel and Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. We think it unnecessary to explain at greater length the reasons for our opinion that the
petitioner has suffered no unconstitutional wrong.
Order affirmed.

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL BANK v. HULITT.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 108.

Argued November 16, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

While the mere pledgee of national bank stock cannot be held for double
liability as a shareholder so long as the shares are not registered in his
name, although an irresponsible person may have been selected as the
registered shareholder, the real owner of the shares may be held responsible although the shares may not be registered in his name.
Where the pledgee of national bank stock has by consent credited the'
agreed value of the stock belonging to the pledgor, but registered in the '
name of a third party who is the agent of the pledgee, on the note, and
then proved his claim for the balance against the estate of the pledgor
the title to the stock has so vested in the pledgee that, notwithstanding
the stock has not been transferred, he is liable to assessment thereon as
the owner thereof.

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL BANK v. HULITT.
204 U. S.

163

Statement of the Case.

Where the strict compliance with the terms of a note as to sale of the collateral pledged therewith is waived by the maker, the holder who accepts
the collateral at an agreed price and credits it on the note is estopped
from claiming that he does not become the owner of the collateral because there was no actual sale thereof as required by the note.
These principles applied when the pledgee of national bank stock was a
national bank.
137 Fed. Rep. 461, affirmed.
THIS case was begun in the United States Circuit Court by
John Hulitt as receiver of the First National Bank of Hillsboro, Ohio, against the Ohio Valley National Bank, to recover
the amount of an assessment upon certain shares of the stock
of the Hillsboro Bank, which had become insolvent, which
assessment was directed by the Comptroller of the Currency
in accordance with the provisions of the National Bank Act.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, from
which it appears that on March 18, 1893, one Overton S.
Price, for a loan of $10,000, gave his promissory note of that
date to the .Ohio Valley Bank, due ninety days after date,
payable to his own order and indorsed by him, and deposited
as collateral security for the note, among other securities, fifty
shares of stock of the said First National Bank of Hillsboro,
Ohio. The note had a power of sale attached to it, signed
by Price, and authorizing the holder to sell or collect any
portion of the collateral, at public or private sale, on the
non-performance of the promise, and at any time thereafter
without advertising or otherwise giving Price notice, and providing that in case of public sale the holder might purchase
without liability to account for more than the net proceeds of
the sale.
On December 25, 1893, Price died, leaving the note due and
unpaid, and no payments have been made thereon except as
hereinafter stated.
On June 18, 1894, the bank made a transfer of the pledged
stock of the First National Bank of Hillsboro, and also of
certain other stock in the Dominion National Bank of Bristol,
Va., to one Henry Otjen, an employ6 of the bank, and pe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

cuniarily irresponsible. The shares were transferred on the
books of the banks and new certificates issued in the-name
of Otjen and delivered to him on July 7, 1894. Otjen indorsed
the certificates in blank. No money passed in consideration
of the transfer, and none was expected, nor was any credit
given or indorsed on the note by reason thereof.
The transfer was made upon the understanding and agreement between Otjen and the bank that Otjen should hold
the stock as security for the indebtedness of the estate of Price
upon the note, he to apply any amounts which he might
realize from said stock as credits upon the note. In pursuance
of this agreement Otjen subsequently paid the bank sums
received from the Dominion National Bank on account of
dividends received until the sale of that stock, when the proceeds of sale were likewise applied by him upon the note.
On February 19, 1896, the bank prepared proof of claim
against the estate of Price, and at that time believing the stocks
transferred to Otjen to afford a reasonable security for the note
to the amount of $4,484, indorsed a credit for that sum upon
the note, as follows: "Forty-four hundred and eighty-four
($4,484.00) dolls. paid on ac. of within note June 18, '94,
being proceeds of sale of 30 shrs. stock Dominion National
Bank and 20 shares of stock 1st National Bank of Hillsboro, 0."
The bank filed its proof of claim for the balance of the indebtedness upon the note;. that no consideration was paid for said
credit, and the same was not entered on the bank's books;
that all dividends arising upon the distribution of the estate
of Price were applied upon the note.
The Hillsboro bank continued to do business until July 16,
1896. From the date of transfer at all times the stock appeared on the books of the Hillsboro bank in the name of
Otjen, there being nothing on the books to connect the Ohio
Valley National Bank with the stock, or to indicate that it
had any interest therein; that the defendant bank at no time
performed any act of ownership, or exercised or attempted to
exercise any of the rights of a stockholder in said bank, or of

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL BANK v. HULITT.
204 U. S.

165

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

the Dominion National Bank, unless the acts stated were in
legal intendment of that character. The Ohio Valley National
Bank procured the shares to be transferred to Otjen because
it was unwilling to assume the risk of the statutory liability
of a stockholder in respect thereto. The Circuit Court of
Appeals held the bank liable as a stockholder, 137 Fed. Rep.
461, and directed judgment accordingly.
Mr. Robert Ramsey, with whom Mr. J. J.' Muir was on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
The transfer to Otjen did not bring defendant into such
relation to the shares as to subject it to the statutory liability.
Anderson v. Philadelphia Warehouse Co., 111 U. S. 479; Pauly
v. Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606; Rankin v. Fidelity Co., 189 U. S.
242.
Defendant's relation to these shares was not in any manner
affected by its proof of claim against the debtor's estate.
Where a stockholder seeks by any device to disguise himself for the purpose of escaping this statutory liability, this
court has always scrutinized the transaction with a jealous
eye; but where a party who has never held that relation,
adopts ways and means to protect himself against the danger
of apparent ownership, this court has always recognized his
right. Where, as in the case at bar, the party so seeking to
protect himself happens to be a national bank, this court declares that there is not merely the right, but the duty of selfprotection. It has gone so far as to say that national banks
lack corporate power to incur the risks of a speculative enterprise, or partnership liabilities, by taking or holding corporate or'syndicate shares, even though taken in satisfaction
of a debt, and that estoppel will not lie to bar the defense.
First National Bank v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425; Merchants
National Bank v. Wehrmann, 202 U. S. 295.
Mr. Henry M. Huggins, with whom Mr. R. T. Hough was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY,

Section 5151 of the Revised Statutes provides that the
shareholders of every national banking association shall. be
held inaividually responsible, equally and ratably, not one
for another, for all contracts, debts and engagements of
such association, to the extent of the amount of their stock
therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares. This section undertakes to hold all
shareholders responsible, and questions have arisen under
varying circumstances as to what constitutes such shareholder.
In Anderson v. PhiladelphiaWarehouse Company, 111 U. S.
479, it was h.-ld that the mere pledgee who had never acted
as a shareholder would not be liable as such, notwithstanding
the stock was transferred on the books of the bank and the
certificate issued to an irresponsible person, in that instance
a porter in the employment of the company, and this. although
the transfer had been thus made for the purpose of avoiding
liability which might be incurred by the shareholders of the
bank, in case of insolvency. In the course of the opinion,
Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, recognized
that the real owner might be held liable as a shareholder, but
in that case the facts showed the warehouse company, sought
to be held as a shareholder, was never other than a pledgee,,
and that notwithstanding the transfer to'the irresponsible
person, the real ownership of the stock remained in the original
bolder.
In Pauly v. The State Loan & Trust Company, 165 U. S.
.606, the subject was considered at length, and it was held that
one who was described in the certificate as a pledgee, and who
in good faith held the shares as such, was not a shareholder
subject to the personal liability imposed by section 5151.
The previous cases in this court were reviewed, and, in summing up the rules relating to the liability of shareholders in

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL BANK v. HULITT.
204 U. S.

167

Opinion of the Court.

national banks, deducible from previous decisions, among
other things it was said: "That the real owner of the shares
of the capital stock of a national banking association may,
in every case, be treated as a shareholder within the meaning
of section 5151." And again: "The object of the statute is
not to be defeated by the mere forms of transactions between
shareholders and their creditors. The courts will look at the
relations of parties as they actually are, or, as, by reason of
their conduct, they must be assumed to be for the protection
of creditors. Congress did not say that those only should be
regarded as shareholders, liable for the contracts, debts and
engagements of the banking association, whose names appear
on the stock list distinctly as shareholders. A mistake or error
in keeping the official list of shareholders would not prevent
creditors from holding liable all who were, in fact, the real
owners of the stock, and as such had invested money in the
shares of the association. As already indicated, those may
be treated as shareholders, within the meaning of section 5151,
who are the real owners of the stock, or who hold themselves
out, or allow themselves to be held out, as owners in such way
-and under such circumstances as, upon principles of fair dealing, will estop them, as against creditors, from claiming that
they were not, in fact, owners'".
And in Rankin v. Fidelity Trust Company, 189 U. S. 242,
252, the doctrine was stated that a defendant who was in fact
the owner of shares of stock could not avoid liability by listing
them in the name of another, notwithstanding it might do so
if it were the mere pledgee of the stock; and further, that the
case then under consideration turned upon the actual ownership of the shares, which question was properly left to the
jury. And to the same effect are well considered cases in
other courts, Federal and state. It was held that the real
owner might be charged, although his name never appeared
upon the books of the bank. Davis v. Stevens, 17 Blatch.
259, 7 Fed. Cas. 3653, opinion by Mr. Chief Justice Waite;
Houghton v. Hubbell, Circuit Court of Appeals, First Circuit,
t,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S:

91 Fed'. Rep. 453; Laing v. Burley, 101 Illinois, 591; Lesassier
v. Kennedy, 36 La. Ann. 539.
'Assuming then the established doctrine to be that the
mere pledgee of national' bank stock cannot be held liable
as a shareholder so long as the shares are not registered in
his name, although an irresponsible person has been selected
as the registered shareholder, we deem it equally settled, both
from the terms of the statute attaching the liability and the
decisions which have construed the act, that the real owner
of the shares may be held responsible, although in fact the
shares are Pot registered in his name. As to such owner the
law looks through subterfuges and apparent ownerships and
fastens the liability upon the shareholder to whom the shares
really belong.
Applying these principles to the case at bar, we think there
can be no-doubt of the liability of the Ohio Valley National
Bank in this case. Conceding that it was exempt so long as
the relation which it held to the stock -was that of a pledgee,
and that Otjen was the registered stockholder holding for the
benefit of the bank as pledgee and not as owner, what was
the attitude of the parties after the death of Price and the
credit of the supposed value of the stock upon the note and
its presentation for allowance and acceptance by the representatives of Price's estate? As the foregoing statement
shows, the stock was originally delivered to the bank, with a
power of public or private sale for the liquidation of the pledge.
After the death of Price the bank caused the stock to be regis.tered in the name of Otjen. After proof of the claim the
dividends paid out of the Price estate were credited upon the
note. If the bank had followed literally the authority of the
power of attorney attached to the note and sold the stock at
public or private sale, and itself become the
purchaser, we
take it there could be no question that it would thus have
become the real owner of the stock, and, within the principles
of the cases heretofore cited, the shareholder liable under the
,terms of the statute. We -think what was in fact done neces-

OHIO VALLEY NATIONAL 3ANK v. HULITT.
204 U. S.

169

Opinion of the Court.

sarily had the same effect; the bank applied the value of the
stock with the consent of the pledgor, and 'thus vested the
title in the bank.
It is urged that although the indorsement upon. the note
in the form in which it was presented to Price's administrator
recited credit as of June 18, 1894, being proceeds of a sale of
the stock, there never was a sale in fact, and that the bank
is not estopped by anything shown in the case from showing
the true situation and the actual transaction between the
parties.
Conceding, for this purpose, that Price's representative
could have insisted upon a strict performance of the power conferred in the authority given to the bank as to the disposition
of the collateral, yet if the representative of Price desired to
do so, there was nothing to prevent him from waivin'g a strict
compliance with the terms named and permitting the bank
to acquire title to the stock by crediting its value on the note.
This is in fact what was.done. Instead of selling the stock the
bank, in executing the authority conferred, indorsed what it
deemed the value of the stock, as of the date of the credit,
upon the note, and reduced by the amount of this valuation,
presented the note to the administrator -of Price, who must
have allowed the claim in this form, as it is specifically stated
that the subsequent dividends upon the claim were paid to
the bank. By this transaction, who became the real owner
of the stock? Certainly not Otjen, for it is not contended
that he was other than a mere holder of the stock as collateral
security to. the bank without any beneficial interest. Price
had died, and his representative had allowed the claim, showing -the application of the value of the stock as a credit upon
*the note. If Price's representative could have objected to the
form in which the bank liquidated the pledge, he did not do
so, but accepted the bank's method of divesting him of title,
by allowing the claim with the credit upon it. The bank thus
became the beneficial owner of the stock, and had the Hillsboro National Bank continued solvent it certainly could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

have denied to the Ohio Valley Bank after this transaction
the rights and privileges of a stockholder.
As we have seen, this court in construing the banking act
has not limited the liability to the registered stockholders.
While the registered stockholders may be held liable to creditors regardless of the true ownership of the stock, and the
pledgee of the stock not appearing otherwise, is not liable,
although the registered stockholder may be an irresponsible
person of his choice, yet where the real ownership of the stock
is in one his liability may be established, notwithstanding the
registered ownership is in the name of a person fictitious or
otherwise, who holds for him.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in holding the bank, in view of the facts shown in the case, as the true
owner and responsible shareholder of' the stock in question.
Judgment affirmed.

ZARTARIAN v. BILLINGS,- COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT
No. 120.

OF" MASSACHUSETTS.

Submitted December 7, 1906.-Decided January 7, 1907.

Naturalization acts of the United States have limited admission to citizenship to those within its limits, and under its jurisdiction.
An alien's.right to acquire citizenship is purely statutory, and extension

of the effect of naturalization to minor children of the person naturalized
not included in the statute must come from Congressional legislation and
uot judicial decision.
Section 2172, Rev Stat., and the naturalization laws of the United States,
do -not confer citizenship on the minor children of a naturalized alien
who were born abroad and remain abroad until after their parent's
naturalization, such children are aliens, subject as to their entrance to
the United States to .the provisions of the Alien Immigration Act of
March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1213, and may be excluded if afflicted with
contagious disease.

