WESTERN TURF A.SSOCIATION v. GREENBERG. 359
204

U: S.

Syllabus.

ties, and to prosecute the same to final judgment and execution."

It is true that this statute can have no difect application
here, because the present action was instituted long prior to
its passage and after the trial court had decided the question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. As the act of, 19Q5
does not refer to cases pending .at its passage, the question of
jurisdiction depends Vpon the law as it was when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked in this action. Nevertheless, that act throws some light on the meaning of the act
of 1894, c. 280i for the protection of materialmen and laborers,,
and tends to sustain the view based on the latter act, namely,
that in suits brought in the name of the Government for their
benefit the United States is a real litigant, not a mere nominal
party, and that of such suits, the Government being plaintiff
therein, and having the legal right, the Circuit Court may take
original cognizance without regard to the value of. the matter
in dispute. There are cases which take the opposite view,
but the better view we thinkis the one expressed herein.
The judgment is
.,Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissents.

WESTERN TURF ASSOCIATION v., GREENBERG.
ERRORTO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORIIA.
No. 189.

Submitted January 29, 1907.-Decid d February 25, 1907.

Where defendant corporation in the court below questions the constitutionality of a state statute as an abridgment of its rights and immunities
and as depriv'ing it of its property without due process of law in. violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the judgment sustains the validity of the statute, this court has' jurisdiction to review the judgment on'
writ of error under ยง 709, Rev. Stat:

360 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

A corporation is not deemed a citizen within the clause of the Constitution
of the United States protecting the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States from being abridged or impaired by the law of a
State; and the liberty guaranteed by 'the Fourteenth Amendment against
deprivation without due process of law is that of natural, not artificial,
persons.
A State ma, in the exercise of its police power'regulate the admission of
persons to places of amusement, and, upon terms of equal and exact,
justice, provide jthat persons holding tickets thereto-shall o-e admitted if
not under the influence of liquor, boisterous, or- of lewd character, and
such a statute does not deprive the owners of such places of their property
without due process of law; so held, as to California statute.
148 California, 126,' affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. ,William S. Goodfellow, for plaintiff in error, submitted:
The reason for excluding the defendant in error from the.
grounds was ,that he insisted upon publishing a newspaper
called a racing chart or form chart, whereas the association
had sold the exclusive privilege so to do to'other persons.
The association-had'the right to make such a contract, perhaps for the protection of the public,,'and for the reputation
of its own grounds; as also for the profits to be directly derived from the ,contract.
Apart from this special statute, a ticket of admission to a
place of amusement is; and always has been, merely 4 license.
The authorities to this effect were cited in the former case,
and the Supreme Court of California held in conformity with
themi But if this statute.be valid it is no longer possible for
two persons to contract for the issuance of a license, to a place
of amusement.- This statute also makes it a penal offense,
140 California,. 364, for a person who has made a civil contract
to violate it. It is.'understood that.'every person has that
right,. of course holding himself responsible in damages.
The plaintiff in errr is a 'private corporation, conducting a
,private business, upon its own private premises. There is no
suggestion that i was in anywise exercising a public use, or
that it had ever received aid or' special privileges' from the

WESTERN TURF ASSOCIATION v. GREENBERG. 361
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State, or even a license to transact business. District of
Columbia v. Saville, 1 McArthur,'581; S. C., 29 Am. Rep. 616;
Sharpe v. Whiteside, 19 Fed. Rep. 156; Gibbs v. Tally, 133
California, 373; State v. Associated Press, 60 S. W. Rep. 191;
Leep v. St. Louis, 25 S. W. Rep. 575.
Mr. William G. Burke, for defendant in' error, submitted:
The statute attacked in this case is applicable only to places
of public amusement or entertainment and was within the
power of the legislature to enact. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
13; Grannan v. Westchester Racing Assn., 16 App. Div. 8;
S. C., 44 N. Y. Supp. 790; Baylies v. Curry, 128 Illinois, 287;
People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418.
The constitutionality of the statute under consideration
has been twice upheld by the Supreme Court of California.
Greenberg v. Western Turf Assn., 82 Pac. Rep. 684.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error is a corporation of California, and the
lessee, in possession, of a race-course kept as a place of public
entertainment and amusement, and to which it was accustomed to issue tickets of admission. The defendant, Greenberg purchased one of such tickets, and was admitted to the
race-course. After being admitted he was ejected from the
premises against his will by police officers, acting, i.t was
alleged in the complaint, by the direction of the plaintiff. The
defendant denied responsibility for the acts of those officers.
It was sued by Greenberg in one of the courts of California,
and there was a verdict and judgment against the Association
for the sum of one thousand dollars. The case was taken to
the Supreme Court of the State and the judgment was affirmed.
148 California, 126.
At the trial a question was raised as to the applicability to
this case of a statute of California relating to the admission
of persons holding tickets of admission to places of public

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S,

entertainment and amusement. That statute is as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any corporation, person or association, or the proprietor, lessee, or the agents of either, of any
opera house, theatre, melodeon, museum,, circus, caravan,
,race-course, fair, or other place of public amusement or entertainment, to refuse admittance to any person over the age
of twenty-one years who presents a ticket. of admission acquired by-purchase, and who demands. admission to such
place; provided that any person under the influ6nce of liquor,
or who is guilty of boisterous conduct, or any person of lewd

or immoral character, may be excluded from any such place of
amusement. Sec. 2... Any person who is refused admission
to,any place of amusement, contrary to the provisions of this
act, is entitled to recover from the proprietors, lessees or their'
agents, or from any person,. association, corporation, or the
directors thereof, his actual. damage and' $100 in addition
thereto."
1. The record sufficiently shows that in the Supreme Court
of the State' the defendant questioned the validity of the
statute in question under the Fourteenth Amendment, in that
it "seeks to abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens
of.the United States, and to deprive them' of. liberty and property without .due process 6f law, and 6'deny to them,, being
.within its. jurisdiction, the eqiial protection of the laws." By
-the .judgment. beloW the validity of the statute was sustained,the court holding that it was a legitimate exertion of the
police power of the. State. The contention. that this court is
.without .jurisdiction to -review that, judgment is, therefore,
.overruled.
2. The'Supreme Court of .the State in a previous decision
between the same pafties-Greenberg v. Western Turf- Assoeiatin, 140 California,.357, 360-held the .statute to be constitutional as a valil regulation iymposed by the State fin. its.
exerciseof.police .power. That decision, we assume, from the
6piriion of the court, had reference ofily to the constitution' of
Californi i But this court can .only pass upon the validity of

WESTERN TURF ASSOCIATION v. GREENBERG. 363
204 1U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute with reference to the Constitution of the United
States. We perceive no reason 'for holding it to be invalid
under that instrument. The contention that it is unconstitutional as denying to the defendant the equal protection of the
laws is without merit, for the statute is applicable alike to all
persons, corporations, or associations conducting places of
public amusement or entertainment. Of still less merit is the
suggestion that the stAtute abridges the rights and privileges
of citizens,; for a corporation cannot be deemed a citizen within
the meaning of the clause of the Constitution of the United
States which protects the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States against being abridged or impaired by
the law of a State.
" The same. observation may be -made as to the contention
that the statute deprives the defendant of its liberty without
due process of law; for, the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment against deprivation without due process
of law is the liberty of'natural, not artificial, persons. Northwestern Life Insurance Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 243. Does the
statute deprive the defendant of any property right without
due process of law? We answer this question- in the negative.
Decisions of this. court, familiar to all, and which need not be
cited, recognize the possession, by each State, of powers never
surrendered to the General Government; which powers the
State, except as restrained by its own constitution, or the
Constitution of the United States,'may exert not only for the
public health, the public morals and the public safety, but for
the general or common- good, for the well-being, comfort and
.good order of the people. The enactments of a State, when
exerting its power for such purposes, must be respected by
this court) if they do not violate rights granted or secured by
the Supreme Law of the land.. In view of these settled principles, the defendant is not justified in invoking the Constitution of the United States. The statute is only a regulation
of places of public entertainment and amusement upon terms.
of equal and exact justice to every one holding a ticket of ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

mission, and who is not at the time under the influence of
liquor, or boisterous in conduct, or of lewd and immoral character. In short, as applied to the plaintiff in error, it is only
a regulation compelling it to perform its own contract as evidenced by tickets of admission issued ahd sold to parties wishing to attend its race-course. Such a regulation, in itself just,
is'likewise promotive of peace and good order among those
who attend places of public entertaifiment or amusement.
It is neither an arbitrary exertion of the State's inherent or
governmental power, nor a violation of any right secured by
the Constitution of the United States. The race-course in
question being held out as a place of public entertainment and
amusement is, by the act of the defendant, so'far affected with
a public interest that the State may, in the interest of good
order and fair dealing, require defendant. to perform its engagement to the public, and recognize its own tickets of .admission in the hands of persons entitled to claim the benefits
of the Statute. That such a regulation violates any .right of
property secured by the Constitution of the United States
cannot, for a moment, be admitted. The case requires nothing further to be said. The judgment is
Affrmned.

UNION BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED' STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 431.

Argued December 5, 6, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Commerce comprehends navigation; and to - free navigatio5 from unreasonable obstructions by compelling the removal of bridges which are
such obstructions is a- legitimate exercise by Congress of its pwer to
regulate commerce.
Congress when enacting that navigation be freed from unreasonable obstructions arising from bridges which areof insufficient height Or width
of span, or are otherwise defective,.may, without violating the constitutional prohibition against delegation of legislative or judicial power, impose upon. an executive officer the duty of ascertaining what particular
cases come within the prescribed rule.

