OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
204 U. S.

Syllabus.

tion of the vein in dispute. The land was described as lying
east of the mining ground known as the Summit Quartz Mine.
Assuming, in accordance with its decision, that the part of
the vein under this land was embraced in the patent to the
plaintiff and severed from the surface, the California court held
that this instrument did not purport to convey the portion
of the vein beneath the surface and within the converging
lines, produced, of the plaintiff's location. The court also
adverted to the fact, which sufficiently appeared, that the
real object of the deed was to free the defendants' title from a
previous contract on their part to convey the land, and simply
to replace the grantees in their former position; and it sustained a finding of the court below. The construction and
effect of a conveyance between private parties is a matter as
to which we follow the court of the State. Brine v. Hartford
Fire Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627, 636; De Vaughn v. Hutchinson,
165 U. S. 566. The assumption upon which that construction
proceeded we have decided to be correct, and it is enough to
add that there is nothing in the decision rendered last week
in Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining & Milling Co.,
ante, p. 204 that prevents our agreeing with the result.
Judgment affirmed.

ARMSTRONG, RECEIVER, v. ASHLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 122.

Argued December 7, 10, 1906.-Decided January 21, 1907.

Where the title of one claiming ownership of real estate in bad faith is openly
questioned and attacked in actions of ejectment, neither he nor his mortgagee are entitled to an equitable lieh on the property for moneys expended thereon.
One loaning money on real estate, the title to which has been, to his knowledge, attacked in an equity suit which has been dismissed without prejudice
and not on the merits, takes the risk of the title and his knowledge extends

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to all property described, not only in the declaration but also in amended
dezlarations, notwithstanding the failure of the clerk, without any fault
of the party filing them, to properly index the amended declarations.
Knowledge of the president of a local board of directors and of the local
attorney of a building and loan association in regard to a matter coming
within the sphere of their duty and acquired while acting in regard to the
same is knowledge of the association, and the fact that they have committed a fraud does not alter the legal effect of their knowledge as against
third parties who have no connection with, or knowledge of, the fraud
perpetrated.
While one claiming to own real property cannot stand by in silence and see
another expend money in improving it, he fulfils his duty by notifying
the person spending the money and claiming ownership; and, in the
absence of knowledge that such person is insolvent, he is not bound to
ascertain whether he is making the improvements with money realized
by mortgaging the premises and notify the mortgagee also.
22 App. D. C. 368, affirmed.

Tins suit was brought in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia by the appellant, who is the ancillary receiver
for the New South Building and Loan Association of New
Orleans, Louisiana, hereinafter called the company, against
the owners of the real property described in the bill, to establish an equitable lien upon the property for the value of improvements placed thereon with money which the company
loaned to one BrAdshaw for that purpose, Bradshaw claiming
to be the bwner at the time. After hearing, the bill was dismissed on its merits by the trial court, and the decree of dismissal was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District.
The opinions of both courts are to be found in 22 App. D. C.
368. The receiver has appealed here.
The title to the property, which consisted of certain numbered lots in square number 939 in Washington, had been
in dispute some time prior to 1891. During the year 1889,
1890 or 1891 one Aaron Bradshaw, acting, as alleged, as agent
.of one John H. Walter, who claimed to have acquired the
title of George Walker, entered upon and took forcible possession of the lots in question, and proceeded to erect a small
brick structure on the corner lot, whereby to continue to hold
possession.
VOL. ccIv-18

OCTOBER TERM,' 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

The respondents herein claim to be the owners of these lots,
and in the latter part of 1891 they or their grantors commenced four actions of ejectment in the Supreme Court of
the District to recover possession of separate and undivided
interests in the designated "ink-lot" number one, and subsequently, by proper amendments, other lots in the same
square, comprising the property involved herein, were included
in the declarations in those actions. A statement of facts
regarding the title to these various lots may be found in Bradshaw v. Ashley, 14 App. D. C. 485, and in this court, upon
review of that decision, in 180 U. S. 59, 60, where the expression "ink-lot",is explained as referring to certain ink
numbers on a map of the lots in square 939, on file in one
of the public offices of the city, and which also had pencil
numbers, on it, which were different. In that litigation the
Ashleys, the respondents herein, finally established their
right to the possession of the property and obtained judgment
to that effect against Bradshaw, defendant in the ejectment
actions, in the Supreme Court of the District some time in 1897
and in this court in 1901. These respondents were thereupon
placed in possession of the property, including these lots.
While the litigation in these ejectment actions was pending,
and some years before judgment therein, Bradshaw, while
defending them, became a stockholder in the company in
order to obtain a loan from it, and succeeded, in October, 1893,
in borrowing twenty thousand dollars from the. company,
secured by a deed of trust upon the property in litigation in
the actions of ejeetment other than "ink-lot" one above mentioned. The deed was duly recorded and the money was to
be used for the construction of buildings, which were subsequently placed on these lots. The money was advanced to
Bradshaw by the company, in installments, the last being in
April, 1894.
It was obtained from the company by means, as alleged,
of a fraudulent combination between Bradshaw and one
Walter, the president of the local board of directors of the

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Slatement of the Case.

company at Washington, (who claimed to have been the
owner at one time of the property, but whose title, whatever
it was, had been acquired by Bradshaw), together with the
local attorney of the company in this District. The local
attorney, in carrying out the alleged fraud, sent a defective
so-called "chain of title," which, nevertheless, had been
accepted by the local board of the company in Washington.
It omitted certain tax and other deeds under which the respondents claimed title in themselves. This defective paper
was continued by other examiners of the title, but was not
revised by them. The certificate regarding the title was sent,
with. the defective chain of title, to the company in New
Orleans by the local attorney about May 26, 1893. The
certificate approved the application for the loan, but such
loan was not acted upon favorably at that time. Subsequently,
in October, 1893, the loan was made, the company, as is stated,
relying upon the certificate of the local attorney for the period
which it covered, and the certificate of the other examiner
for the time thereafter passing until the making of the loan.
The company lhs insisted that it acted at all times in good
faith and made 'its advances upon the security of the trust
deed, which it supposed was perfectly good. The trial court
found that before the money was paid to Bradshaw, upon
the security of this trust deed, the company was aware, through
its general attorney in New Orleans, of the fact that a suit
in equity had (theretofore in 1890, and before the ejectment
actions) been brought by the Ashleys against Bradshaw,
Walter and others, in which the plaintiffs therein claimed
ownership of these lots, and wherein they asked for an injunction to restrain the defendants from setting up any title
to them. The bill on file in the equity suit showed a common
source of title to all the lots mentioned therein, which included
the lots here in question. The attorney also knew that,
although the suit had been dismissed, yet it was only for want
of prosecution, and was "without' prejudice." The New
Orleans attorney wrote to the' Washington attorney, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

then had charge of the matter, calling his attention to these
facts. No notice seems to have been taken of the letter,
but the certificate of title by the examiner was given after
its receipt. The company insists that during all the time it
made advances to Bradshaw under the deed of trust it was
ignorant of the existence of these ejectment actions, and at
any rate did not know that they covered other than the corner
lot, as described in the declarations before they were amended,
and the amendments they were ignorant of, because, as is alleged, the clerk of the court in which the actions were pending
had not properly kept the books so as to show the amendments
and their nature, although they had been filed. The corner
lot was not. one of the lots upon which the buildings were
erected.
The trial court, in the opinion delivered, said that the complainant charged the defendants with knowledge of the advances made by the company to Bradshaw, towards the
erection of the buildings; but to this allegation the defendants
interposed, in their answer (which was under oath), a positive
denial. They admitted that, although wholly ignorant of
the source from which the money came to construct the houses,
yet soon after learning that one Childs, a contractor, was
engaged in their construction they notified him in writing,
January 4, 1894, that he had been represented to them as
contractor and builder of the houses for which the ground
had been broken, and which houses were then in course of
erection, and he was thereby notified that if he, his agents
or employds, entered upon the grounds they would be held
liable for trespassing thereon, as they (defendants herein)
were the owners of the lots and had not given him, or anyone
else, the right or permission to enter thereon for the erection
of houses or any purpose whatever, and that, as the improvements were not made with their authority, they would not be
-responsible for any liability contracted by Mr. Bradshaw.
The defendants, in their answer, also allege that it was not
until in or about February, 1895, that defendants, or any of

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Statement' of the Case.

them, learned of the advances made by the company or of
the existence of the deed of trust. The trial court, in its
opinion, stated that although "there was no evidence contradicting either of these denials, nor of actual knowledge
possessed by the defendants of the matters thus denied, still
it seems to me there is evidence in the record that facts
might readily have been ascertained by them from which
they might well have learned at an earlier time of the building
and of the source from which the money employed was derived." While not finding that the defendants had actual
knowledge of the advances made by the company, the court
(lid impute knowledge of certain conveyances made to Bradshaw, and of the existence of the deed of trust to the company
at earlier dates than those assigned in the answer, February,
1895. And in relation to an offer of' compromise the joint
answer alleged that after that time, viz., about May 31, 1895,
during negotiations for the compromise of the differences
between the parties, Mr. H. F. Beardsley, one of the defendants, wrote to the attorneys representing the company in
behalf of himself and his associates, offering to sell to the
company the lots upon which the houses then were "at their
present market value or price, said value not to exceed the
price at which similar lots (unimproved) in the same or contiguous squares are offered for sale. Upon the payment of
said price, or sum, we will convey our title to them by deed
or quitclaim, or make a binding agreement to so convey upon
the determination of the pending suits, or a deed in escrow,
as counsel shall advise. We will hold this offer open until
the 1st of July next." This offer was not accepted, but there
is nothing stating what, if any, objections were made to it.
Bradshaw had, in 1894, defaulted in his payments of amounts
due for his stock in the company, which he had taken in order
to procure his loan. Thereafter some arrangements were attempted between him and the company in regard to making
his payments, but they fell through, and nothing could be
done in the way of collecting anything on the mortgage or

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

deed of trust for the reason that the ejectment actions resulted unfavorably. The company, in 1899, became einbarrassed and went into the hands of a receiver in New Orleans,
and the same person was appointed ancillary receiver in this
District, and brought this suit with leave of the court.
The Court of Appeals held that Bradshaw was an occupant
of the premises in bad faith, with the fullest possible knowledge
of the rights and claims of the appellees, and that it could
not be supposed that the grantee of an occupant in bad faith
could have any better right than his grantor had.
Some other facts are stated in the course of the opinion.
Mr. Blair Lee and Mr. George H. Lamar, for appellant:
The appellees, by standing by and acquiescing therein
while the buildings were being erected on the property claimed
by them, with the funds of the association, advanced in good
faith, are estopped to deny the right of the appellant to a lien
on the property to the extent of the value of the improvements.
2 Beach's Eq. 1107; Sumner v. Seaton, 47 N. J. Eq. 103;
Morgan v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 720; Bryndon v. Campbell,
40 Maryland, 331; Mclntire v. Pryor, 10 App. D. C. 440.
The appellant, as receiver of the New. South Building and
Loan Association, occupies the position of a bona fide purchaser
for value and without notice and cannot be deprived of protection in equity by the bad faith of Bradshaw, the grantor,
or the fraud of the members of the local board who participated
with him in fraud on the association. Woodward v. Blanchard,
16 Illinois, 432; Searl v. School Dist., No. 2, 133 U. S. 553;
Wright v. Mattison, 18 How. 50. As to notice through agent,
the agent's fraud relieves his principal. Mechem on Agency,
art. 723; 2 Sugden on Vendors, *p. 1043, ยง 20; 2 Pomeroy's Eq.
Juris., art. 675. The equity suit was not notice to the company; to affect a purchaser with notice requires a close and
continuous prosecution of the lis pendens, and this is required
by Lord Bacon's rule. 2 Sugden on Vendors, p. 1046, art. 24;
1 Johns. Ch. 576.

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Without reference to the connivance and estoppel of the
appellees, the appellant, as receiver of the New South Builtling
and Loan Association, as an improver in good faith, is entitled
in equity to a lien on the property to the extent of the value
of the improvements bestowed with the funds of the association. Searl v. School District, 133 U. S. 553; Bright v. Boyd,
1 Story C. C. 478, 492.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals in Anderson v. Reed,
concedes that the doctrine of Mr. Justice Story in Bright v.
Boyd has been adopted and followed by other equity courts,
citing cases of Thomas v. Thomas, 16 B. Mon. 421; Vallee v.
Fleming, 16 Missouri, 152; Hatcher v. Briggs, 6 Oregon, 131;
McKelway V. Armour, 10 N. J. Eq. 115, and Union Hall
Association v. Morrison, 39 Maryland, in all of which the
opinion of Mr. Justice Story in the case of Bright v. Boyd, is
accepted and emphatically endorsed.
Mr. J. J. Darlington for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The foregoing facts show that Bradshaw, if he were plaintiff,
would have no cause of action against the defendants, based
upon any allegation that he was permitted by them to build
on what he thought was his own land, while the defendants
stood by and did not interfere to prevent it, although knowing that the land was not his and claiming title themselves.
At all times Bradshaw had knowledge that not only was his
title denied, but that these defendants were asserting to the
best of their ability in actions of ejectment against him, the
right to the possession of, and title to, the property'in question.
Under such circumstances it would simply be at his own risk
that he expended money on what might turn out to be other
people's property, and which he knew was so claimed. His
attitude in the matter would seem to have been that if he

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

could successfully defend the ejectment actions he could then
pay the loan he had obtained from the company, While if he
should prove unsuccessful in the defense it would be the
company's misfortune.
The company now insists that the money was obtained
from it through the fraud of Bradshaw and the others, as
.stated. But before coming to the question of what duty the
defendants owed to the company it may be well to examine
for a moment the position of the company in the transaction
leading up to its loan to Bradshaw. It is true, the company
asserts, that it has acted in good faith throughout the whole
matter. Upon examining its position one fact is apparent
and uncontradicted: Before the execution of the deed of trust,
and, of course, before the advance of any of the moneys by
the company to Bradshaw, the company was aware, through
its general attorney in New -Orleans, that a suit in euity had
been commenced about March 1, 1890, by the Ashleys against
Bradshaw and others, wherein they alleged their claim of
ownership of the property, which included the lots in question
in this base, and in which the plaintiffs sought to enjoin the
defendants from setting up any title thereto. It appeared
that there was a common source of title to all the lots mentioned in the bill. The bill charged fraudulent and illegal
acts on the part of Bradshaw, Walter and other confederates,
in undertaking to seize possession of the lots there claimed to
belong to the plaintiffs therein (the defendants in this suit),
and specifically described the- status of the parties then existing, and denied to Walter and Bradshaw any ownership
or right to the possession of the lots. The facts regarding
this equity suit were presented by the general attorney for
the company, in New Orleans, to the local attorney of the
company in this District, and the fact that the -bill had been
dismissed only for want of prosecution and without prejudice
was specially called to the attention of the local attorney,
No action seems to have been taken regarding the contents
of that letter by the local attorney after its receipt other than

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U.S.

Opinion of the 'Court.

to certify to the title, nor does the general attorney seem
to have inquired further about the facts. The bill was, of
course, on file in the clerk's office, and it showed the contention as to the title between these defendants and Bradshaw
and his associates. With this knowledge, therefore, it is
impossible to say that the company was ignorant of the fact
of the existence of a question as to the title of Bradshaw to
the premises on which he was seeking to obtain this loan.
The dismissal of the bill without, prejudice, for want of prosecution, would not be evidence that the title of Bradshaw
was good or that the Controversy had been settled. It certainly
was) a warning of the existence of a question as to the title,
and it was, at any rate, notice enough to start the company
upon some investigation of the facts as to the actual condition
of the controversy respecting it. And at this time the ejectment actions had been brought and were pending. The declarations in those actions were then on file in the clerk's office
of the Supreme Court of the District, and showed the actions
were originally brought to recover possession of "ink-lot"
one. It is true that while that particular lot did not include
the premises upon which the buildings were subsequently
erected, yet the source of title to all the lots was the same.
Some months before the deed of trust was executed amendments to these declarations, which did include those lots,
had been made and were on file in the clerk's office among
the papers in those actions.
Actual knowledge of the' fact of the existence of the ejectment actions in regard to "ink-lot" one is, however, denied by
the company, and a like denial is made in regard to the amendments to the declarations. The local attorney had knowledge
of them, or ought to have had. But so long as the Company
had knowledge of the equity suit and the contents of the bill
therein there was enough to put the company bn inquiry as
to the state of the title. If under such facts the company
loaned the money, it showed its willingness to take the risk
of the validity and sufficiency of the title of Bradshaw.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The company (lenied knowledge of the amended(ldeclarations
because of the alleged defect in the manner of keeping the
books in the clerk's office, wherein the ejectment actions
were entered, but no statement was ma(le on the page of the
docket devoted to those actions of the existence of amendments
to the (leclarations. The amendments were, however, duly
filed in the clerk's office, and the alleged failure of the clerk
to l)roperly inlex the amendiments was no answer to the
failure on the part 'of the searcher to examine the files for
the purpose of seeing the papers in existence in the actions.
In this matter we agree with the opinion of'the Court of Appeals,
in holdi ng that the respondents here were in nowise responsible
for the alleged failure of the clerk to make additions to the
(locket or index book. Nor is there any evidence that the
persons acting for the companly were in any way misled by
such failure, to the company's detriment.
The company also insists that it ought not to be charged
with any knowledge of any fact which was known only by
Walter and the local attorney. The company asserts, first,
that Walter and the local attorney were not. its agents; and,
in any event, by reason of their fraud, knowledge by the company should not be imputed to it because of the knowledge
of its agents. The conmpany asserts that Walter- was simply
the president of its local board, composed of the stockholders
in the company residing or to be found in Washington, and
that his action was not the action of an agent under such circunistances. It also asserts the same thing in regard to' the
local attorney, and denies liability for their acts. We think
the position can not be maintained. The president and attorney were directors of the local board and had to be directors
before they could hold either office, and the local directors
had to be approvedby the board of the main office. It was
to this local board that the application was first to be made
for a loan, and it was to be approved by it and ttansmitted
at once to the main office, signed by the president, secretary
and attorney of the local board on a form furnished by the

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

association to applicants for a loan. Transactions of a local
nature were put in charge of the local attorney, who represented
the company at his locality, and loans were consummated
by him and papers sent to him by the coiiipany for such, action
as was necessary for the completion of a loan. The knowledge
of the attorney and of the president of the board in regard
to a matter coming within the sphere of their duty, and acquired while acting in regard to the same, and sending to the
company in New Orleans their report which it was their duty
to make, must be imputed to the company. The fact that
those agents committed a fraud can not alter the legal effect
of their acts or of their knowledge with respect to the company
in regard to third parties who had no connection whatever
with them in relation to the perpetration of the fraud, and
no knowledge that any such fraud had been perpetrated.
There is no pretense of any evidence that the defendants
had any connection with these alleged frauds, and no pretense
that they had any knowledge of their existence, if they did
e4xist. In such case the rule imputing knowledge to the company by reason of the knowledge of its agent remains.
But, even if it be assumed that the company had no more
than a knowledge of the equity suit and its dismissal without
prejudice, it simply shows that the company was willing to
take the risk of .the title, although confessedly questionable.
Upon these facts we can not see that the defendants can
be held liable to the plaintiffs on account of any failure of
duty on defendants' part. If the buildings were being erected
by Bradshaw, there was certainly no duty on the part of defendants to notify him of their title to the property, and we
can not see that there was any such duty resting upon the
defendants to endeavor to find out through what sources
Bradshaw obtained the money to erect the buildings, and to
inform the person who was loaning the money that the defendants ejaimed the property as theirs.
Assuming even that the company made the loan in the
bona fide belief that Bradshaw had title and that the claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

of the defendants to the ownership of the lots were not well
founded, and also that no knowledge of the agents of th company in Washington could properly be imputed to it, and we
still have the fact that the company loaned its money with
knowledge of the equity suit and of the allegations of the bill
therein regarding the title of the defendants and the lack of
any. title in Bradshaw. Imputing no knowledge to the company other than it actually possessed, the same course should
be taken with the defendants. In that case we have their
sworn denial, unaffected with any proof to the contrary, that
they had any actual knowledge of the existence of the deed
of trust or of any connection of the company with Bradshaw,
or of any advances made by it to Bradshaw, until February, 1895 (long after all the moneys had been advanced), and
even in regard to Bradshaw himself they notified the contractor early in January, 1894, that they owned the property
and they would not be responsible for any expenditures made
by Bradshaw, and that if the contractor went on he would
be regarded as a trespasser.
There is no finding that Bradshaw was insolvent, or that
the defendants had any knowledge of it if he were insolvent,
and hence there is nothing to lead to the assumption that
the defendants knew the buildings could only be erected by
Bradshaw with borrowed money, and nothing to show any
duty on the part of defendants to take active steps and make
a search to endeavor to find out who was loaning him money,
and on what security. And yet this is the contention on the
part of the complainant. We think it must be regarded as an
extraordinary contention and an 'unreasonable application
of the doctrine of constructive notice. 'This is the language
used by the Court of Appeals, and it properly describes' the
situation. Certainly constructive notice can not be applied
to the owner of property in regard to the existence of a mortgage thereon, placed there by some one who did not own such
property. The owner of real estate is under no obligation
whatever to watch the records to see whether some one who

ARMSTRONG v. ASHLEY.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

does not own his property has assumed to place a mortgage
upon it or convey it by deed to some third person. The defendants knew Bradshaw was in possession and they saw
buildings being erected on the lots. Were they to assume
that Bradshaw was borrowing the money and that they must,
therefore, go to work to find out from whom he was borrowing,
and notify him of the facts? They in fact knew nothing of
the deed of trust, but, by imputing knowledge, the claim is
made that a duty founded upon such imputed, but not upon
any actual, knowledge, rested upon defendants, for the failure
to discharge which the defendants ought to be held liable.
No case has been called to our attention which in any degree
resembles the claim made by the company herein. The man
who actually erected the buildings knew all about the state
of the title, and that it -was contested by the defendants in
the most earnest and emphatic manner in their actions of
e ectment to recover the lots. The evidence fails to show
that the company was, before the money was advanced, entirely innocent of any knowledge on its part which would
Jead to doubt as to the ownership of the property by Bradshaw.
But even its actual good faith, in the popular sense, can not
charge the defendants with the duty of active investigation
to discover from what source" Bradshaw obtained the money
to build. The simple facts are that the defendants were in
possession of the property when this suit was commenced,
and they ask no aid from a court of equity to place them.
in possession. They had recovered it in their actions at
law, and a court of equity will not, even in the case of a bona
fide improver, grant active relief in such a case. 2 Story Eq.
Juris. (12th ed.) sees. 1237-1238; Williams v. Gibbes, 20
How. 535-538; Anderson v. Reid, 14 App. D. C. 54; Canal
Bank v. Hudson, 111 U. S. 66, 79; Searl v. School District, &c.,
133 U. S. 553 561, and other cases, cited by the trial judge
in his opinion, and in the opinion of the Court of Appeals.
The case of the company is not strengthened by its knowledge
that the -title of Bradshaw was questionable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 U. S.

Morgan v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 716, 720, cited, among
other chses, by the appellant, has no application. The facts
are so wholly different in their nature as to present a' case
which --does not touch the principle decided herein. There
was conduct on the 'part of the appellant which was such as
to amount to fraud or misrepresentation, leading appellee
to believe the existence of a fact upon the existence of which
appellee acted. We find no cases in opposition to the result
we have arrived at.
The decree of the court below is

Affirmed.

MERCHANTS

HEAT AND LIGHT COMPANY v. J. B.
CLOW & SONS.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 118.

Argued January 15, 1907.-Decided January 28, 1907.

While a non-resident defendant corporation may not lose its right of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground of insufficient service
of process by pleading to the merits pursuant to order of the court after
objections overruled, it does waive its objections and submits to the
jurisdiction if it also sets up a counterclaim even though it be one arising
wholly out of the transaction sued upon by plaintiff and in the nature
of recoupment rather than set-off.
At common law, as the doctrine has been developed, a demand in recoupment is recognized as a cross demand as distinguished from a defense.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. H. H. Miller, with whom Mr. James W. Fesler,
Mr. C. C. Shirley and Mr. Samuel D. Miller were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
While Schott was buying material to be used in' the con-

