OSBORNE v. CLARK.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

"When docketed.
"The amount paid.
"The disposition of the funds and any additional matter
which the clerk may deem pertinent."
The record required by that rule, appellee contends, is
different from the various dockets which are kept in all United
States courts in which brief entries of fact are made, and which,
it is said, are covered by the docket fee. The contefition is
consonant with the decision of the Court of Claims, and we
do not think it is refuted by the suggestions made by appellant.
Judgment affirmed.

OSBORNE v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 159.

Argued January 16, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

The fact that a state statute which was assailed in the state court as invalid
under the constitution of the State might have been assailed on similar
grounds as Wlso invalid under the Constitution of the United States does
not give this court jurisdiction to review under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., on
writ of error where the objections to the decision under the Constitution
of the United States were suggested for the first time on taking the writ
of error.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James J. Lynch and Mr. Floyd Estill, with whom
Mr. Jesse M. Littleton, Mr. Isaac W. Crabtree and Mr. Felix D.
Lynch were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The carter granted by the State of Tennessee to the Trustees
of Carrick Academy created a contract, and the rights of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

204 U. S.

plaintiff in error under *its charter were impaired by virtue
of the act of 1881, authorizing the lease of this property to
Winchester Normal College.
The Federal question as to the impairment of the obligation of the contract was sufficiently raised in the pleadings.
True, the Federal Constitution was not mentioned in the
bill. But it is manifest that the Federal question was raised,
when the bill attacked the act, because it undertook to authorize the trustees to appropriate the corporation's property to
the use of another. It was raised by the demurrer, in which
it was insisted that the General Assembly of Tennessee had a
right to authorize a diversion of this fund. Columbia Water
Power Co. v. Columbia Electric &c. Co., 172 U. S. 474; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 104; Yazoo &c. Co. v. Adams,
190 U. S. 1.
The opinions of the court may be looked to in determining
whether or not a Federal question was raised and decided.
Murdock v. Mayor, 20 Wall. 590; San Jos6 Land & Water Co. v.
San Jos6 Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177.
In both courts the decisive question considered and determined was whether the act of 1881 impaired the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution.
Defendants in error contended that the acts of 1806 really
conveyed the property to the State, and by virtue thereof
the State became the owner of the fund arising from the sale
of this property, and that the academies endowed therewith
.Were state agencies for this reason. Plaintiffs in error insisted
that the State was only made a trustee, and that the fund was
intended for Carrick Academy, and that the endowment of
Carrick Academy with this fund did not make it a public
corporation or state agency. The Supreme Court adopted
the view of the defendants in error, and construed this act of
Congress according to their insistence. This was necessary
to the decision of the case, as it was decided. And hence a
Federal question arises. Glascow v. Baker, 128 II. S. 560;
Neilson v. Lagow, 7 How. 771; Joplin v. Chachere, 192 U. S.

OSBORNE v. CLARK.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

94; Shiveley v. Bowley, 152 U. S. 1; Kennedy Mining & Milling Co. v. Argonaut Mining Co., 189 U. S. 1.
Mr. Charles C. Trabue, with whom Mr. William L. Granbery
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to set aside a lease made by former trustees
of Carrick Academy to the trustees of the Winchester Normal
College, in pursuance of an Act of the General Assembly of
Tennessee, authorizing the letting of the academy property
to said lessees. The bill alleged that the act was contrary
to the constitution of the State for various reasons, but said
nothing of the Constitution of the United States, and in no
way implied a reliance upon any of its terms. An Act of
Congress of April 18, 1806, was referred 'to, but was not alleged to be contravened. The defendants demurred, and the
demurrer, after being overruled by the Court of Chancery
Appeals, was sustained by the Supreme Court of the. State.
Tennessee,
. The case then was brought there by writ
of error, and was argued both on the merits and upon a motion
to dismiss.
The assignment of errors sets up that the above-mentioned
state law impairs the obligation of contracts, contrary to the
Constitution of the United States, although it does not show
definitely what contract, or how that contained in the charter
of Carrick Academy is impaired. It sets'up, also, that the act
is repugnant to the Act of Congress of April 18, 1806; and it
alleges that the plaintiffs in error specially set uli and claimed
their rights in these respects in the Chancery Court of the State.
To show that the Constitution of the United States was
relied upon below, the plaintiffs io error refer to passages in
the opinions of the Court of Chancery Appeals and the Supreme Court, in which the Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheat.
518, was discussed, as establishing the point. But we are

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

unable to see that those passages prove the fact. The Court
of Chancery Appeals states the violations of the state constitution set up in the bill, summarizes the questions presented
by the bill and demurrer, and then addresses itself to answering those questions, suggesting no others, and saying nothing
about the Constitution of the United States. After a statement of historical facts, it Says that if the act authorizing
the lease is constitutional and the subject-matter of the act
was under the control of the State, the case is at an end.
If Carrick Academy is a public corporation, the State is as-.
sumed to have control. If it is a private corporation, the
state constitution is assumed to invalidate the statute by
one of the clauses set up in the bill. The judge, speaking
for himself, would regard the academy as a public corporation,
but he yields to the weight of the decision in the Dartmouth
College case, or at least to the principle of that case, according to which, as he conceives, the academy is a private corporation, and therefore exempt from a diversion from its original
charter purposes, such as the act authorizing the lease is
assumed to effect. The objections to such a diversion that
he is considering are those that he has stated as presented by
the bill. The Supreme Court, after stating the nature of the
corporation and the relations and course of dealing of the
State with it, and citing cases to prove that Carrick Academy
is a public agency, refers to the decision below and the citation
there of the Dartmouth College case only in order to show
that that case was misapplied.
But the plaintiffs in error say further that the question of
their rights under the Constitution of the United States necessarily was involved in a decision upon the bill, and that
that is, enough when the validity of a state law is concerned.
Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia Electric Street Ry., Light
& Power Co., 172 U. S. 475, 488; McCullough v. Virginia,
172 U. S. 102, 117. These and similar cases, however, are
not to be pressed to the point that, whenever it appears
that the state law logically might have been assailed as invalict

OSBORNE v. CLARK.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the 0Court.

under the Constitution of the United States, upon grounds
more or less similar to those actually taken, the question is
open. If a case is carried through the state courts upon
arguments drawn from the state constitution alone, the defeated party cannot try his chances here merely by suggesting for the first time when he takes his writ of error that the
decision is wrong under the Constitution of the United States.
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 367, 398; Simmerman v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54; Hagar v. California, 154 U. S. 639;
Erie Railroad v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148, 153.
We are the less uneasy at the conclusion to which we are
forced, that we do not apprehend that the statute of Tennessee
is invalid for the reason now put forward. That reason is
that the General Assembly of the State had no authority to
authorize the taking of the property of this corporation for
the private use of another. This objection might be urged
with some force perhaps to the lease that was made. But
the statute, which alone could be brought in question here,
merely authorized the trustees of Carrick Academy to let
the academy property to the trustees of the Winchester Normal
College for 'not more than fifty years, and required the trustees
of the college to keep the property in good condition and free
from debt or incumbrance, if the lease was made. It said
nothing about terms. It left the academy free. There was
no taking of property, but at most an authority to change
an investment. So far as the act shows on its face, which
is all that we have before us, it might have contemplated
a lease of the present grounds merely as a means to keeping
up the academy with increased resources in a better place
elsewhere.
Writ of error dismissed.

