OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

204 U. S.

NORTHERN LUMBER COMPANY v. O'BRIEN.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS.
No. 121.

Argued December 7. 1906.-Decided January 14, 1007.

The grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 2,
1864, 13 Stat. 365, was in prwsenti, although title did not attach to
specific sections until they were identified., and the grant only included
lands which, on that date, were not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise
appropriated; it did not include land then included within an existing
and lawful withdrawal made in aid of an earlier grant for another road,
although prior to the selection by the Northern Pacific it may have
appeared that those lands were not within the place limits of the grant
for such other road.
When a withdrawal order properly made ceases to be in force the lands
withdrawn thereunder do not pass under a grant of unreserved, unsold
or otherwise unappropriated lands but become part of the public domain
to be disposed of under the general land laws or acts of Congress specially
describing them.
139 Fed. Rep. 614, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. James B. Kerr was
on the brief, for appellant:
As the withdrawal upon general route for the Lake Superior
and Mississippi Company was set aside in 1866, the lands were
free public lands when the Northern Pacific line was definitely
located in 1882; and they therefore fall literally within the
Northern Pacific grant, unless their withdrawal was such
as to forbid their inclusion on July 2, 1864, the date of the
granting act, within the term "public lands" as used in that
act.
To a withdrawal precision and certainty are as necessary
as to a conveyance. The particular lands withdrawn must be
certain or capable of being made certain. The local officers
have no authority to make withdrawals, which must rest for
their validity upon an order of the Secretary or of the Corn-

r
NORTIHEliN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

191

Argument for Appellant.

missioner of the General Land Office. The withdrawal in this
case of "a body of lands about twenty miles in width" was
wholly indefinite and uncertain. It was not helped out by
the map of general route transmitted with the withdrawal
order to the local land office, because that map was wholly
indefinite and uncertain.
Even conceding that the withdrawal was effective, it did
not shield the lands from the operation of the subsequent grant
to the Northern Pacific and did not deprive them of their
character as public lands within the meaning of the Northern
Pacific act.
The only requirement of the Northern Pacific grant relating
to or defining the lands which at its date were embraced by
the act of Congress being that they should be public lands,
the question is whether a reservation from preinption entry
upon general route of another railway forbids 'their inclusion
under that term.
There is a broad distinction between a reservation upon
general, route and one upon definite location, which latter
sort of reservation the court considered in Northern Pacific
Railroad Company v. Musser-Sauntry Co., 168 U. S. 604. A
reservation upon definite location is of indemnity land necessary
(or supposed necessary) to fill losses in place limits. It is
essential in order to save vested rights, not only as against
entries under the land laws, but as against subsequent Congressional grants. The reservation upon general route involved
in this case was, upon the contrary, not one to protect or save
rights. It was merely to facilitate the operations of the public
land department. It covered only place lands and those
needed no protection from ,subsequent disposal by Congress,
the settled doctrine being that priority of grant gives priority
of right.
In Menotti v. Dillon, 167'U. S.703, under an act providing
"that in all cases where the State of California has heretofore
made selections of any portion of the public domain in part
satisfaction of any grant made to said State, by any act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 .U. S.

Congress, and has disposed of the same to purchasers in good
faith under her laws, the lands so selected shall be, and hereby
are, confirmed to said State," it was held that selections by
the State of lands which had been previously withdrawn, for
the benefit of a railroad company which had filed its map of
general route, were selections from the "public domain"
within the meaning of the above quoted act, and passed as
such to the State of California under the provisions of said
act notwithstanding such withdrawal. The same principle
was involved in the recent cases of United States v. Oregon &
Cal. R.R. Co., 176 U. S. 28, and Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Co.,
176 U. S. 51, which should be regarded as controlling and decisive of this appeal.
Mr. J. N. Searles, for the appellees, submitted:
The withdrawal proceeding was sufficient to take this land
out of the class of "public lands" mentioned in the-Northern
Pacific grant. The word "about" used by the Commissioner
in his withdrawal letter does not render his direction indefinite
or uncertain. The rule is that when the context restrains
and limits the meaning of the word "about," its use does not
materially impair the certainty of a description. Adams v.
Harrington,114 Indiana, 66; Corey v. Swagger, 74 Indiana, 211;
Jones v. Plummer, 2 Litt. 161; Purinton v. Sedgley, 4 Maine,
283-286; Stevens v. McKnight, 40 Ohio St. 341; Balt. Land Soc.
v. Smith, 54 Maryland, 204; Sanders v. Morrison, 2 T. B. Mon.
109; Shipp v. Miller, 2 Wheat. 316; Cults v. King, 5 Maine, 482;
Bodley v. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 224; Johnson v. Panel,2 Wheat. 206.
The Northern Pacific grant did not override the departmental withdrawal and thus include' the land in question
among the "public lands" referred to in that act.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit involves the title to the south half of the southeast
quarter of section twenty-seven, township fifty-two north,
,range fifteen west, in the State of Minnesota.

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The principal question in the case is whether the land in
dispute was embraced by the grant of public lands iiade by
Congress July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, 367, c. 217, to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in aid of the construction of a
railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget un(l.
If it was not, then the decree of the Circuit Court disinissing
the bill was right, as was that of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming that decree.
By the act of May 5, 1864, 13 Stat. 64, c. 79, Congress made
a grant of public lands to the State of Minnesota in aid of
the construction of a railroad from St. Paul to the head of
Lake Superior. This grant was vested in the Lake Superior
and Mississippi Railroad Company, and that company on the
seventh day of May, 1864, filed its map of general route. This
map was accepted by the Land Department and a copy was
transmitted May 26, 1864, to the proper local land office, which
was informed of the approval by the Secretary of the Interior
of a withdrawal of lands for the Lake Superior and Alississippi
road, and that office was ordered to suspend, and it did susipend,
"from pre3niption, settlement and sale a bodyof land about
twenty miles in width," as indicated on the filed meal). The
land in dispute was within the exterior lines..of this 'g6neal
route of the Lake Superior and Mississippi road as defined by
its map, and was part of the land so withdrawn.
After the acceptance of the map of general route of the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad, and after the withdrawal
by the Land Department, for the benefit of that company, of
the lands covered by that map, Congress, by the above act of
July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, 367, c. 217, declared "that there
be, and hereby is, granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, its successors and assigns, for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of said railroad and telegraph line to the
Pacific coast, and to secure the safe and speedy transportation
of the mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores,
over the route of said line of railway, every alternate section
of public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
VOL. CCIv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of
said railroad line, as said company may adopt, through the
territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of
land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever on the line thereof, the United
States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise
appropriated, and free from prefmption, or other claims or
rights, at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed, and
a plat thereof filed in the office of the commissioner of the
general land-office;
.
In 1866, the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company
filed a map of the definite location of its road, from which it
appeared that the land in dispute was outside of the place,
indemnity and terminal limits of that road as thus located.
In 1882, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company filed its
map of definite location, which showed that the particular
lands here in dispute were in the place limits indicated by that
map.
In 1883 the latter company filed in the proper office a list
of lands which it asserted were covered by the grant made to
it on July 2, 1864, and on that list, among other lands, were
those here in dispute.
In 1901, the Commissioner of the Land Office refused to
approve and rejected the list so far as the lands now in question were concerned, upon the ground that, although they
appeared, after the definite location of the Northern Pacific
Railroad, to be within the primary limits of the grant made
for that road by the act of July 2, 1864, they "were excepted
from the operation of said grant because they were, at the dale
of the passage of said act, within ten miles of the probable route
of the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad in aid of the
construction of which a grant was made by the act of May 5,
1864, and were embraced within the withdrawalof May 26th, 1864,
made on account of the last-mentioned grant." The question
was taken on appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, and he
also rejected the above list, rendering a decision under date of

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

July 16, 1901, affirming the decision of the Comnissioncr-the
Secretary ruling that as these lands were, at the date of the
grant ,to the Northern Pacific Railroad Conpaty, already "in-.
eluded within an existing and lai-/ud withdrawial made in aid
of a prior grant," they werc not to be deenIicd "I)ublic lands"
when the Northern Pacific granti of 1864 was made, and, consequently, were not emlbraced )y that grant. The Secretary
held that the fact that a right under a prior grant did not
eventually attach to the lands here in question was immaterial;
"first, because the act of .July 2, 1864, was a grant in prcesc ti,
and second, because a reservation on account of a prior grant
will defeat a later grant like that of .July 2, 1864, whether
the lands are needed in satisfaction of the prior grant or not."
31 L. D. 33. Under that decision the above list filed by the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was formally and finally
cancelled, and these lands were never assigned to it by the
Land Department.
Although the stipulation of the parties as to the facts is very
lengthy, those here stated are sufficient to pIresent the point
upon which, it is agreed, the decision of the case depends.
We have seen that at the (late of the grant of ,July 2, 1864,
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company the particular land
in dispute was within the lilies designated by the accepted
map of the general route of the Lake Superior and Mississippi
Railroad; and that the grant for the Northern Pacific Railroad was of "public land." Was the land here in dispute
public land at the date of the passage of that act? If by reason
of its having been then withdrawn by the Land Department
from prebmption, settlement and sale, it was not at the date
of the Northern Pacific grant to be deemed public land, did
that grant attach to it when the Northern Pacific road was
definitely located in 1882? These questions were answered
in the negative by both the Circuit Court and the unanimous
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Northern Lumber
Co. v. O'Brien &c., 134 Fed. Rep. 303; S. C., 139 Fed. Rep. 614.
It has long been settled that the grant to the Northern

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

Pacific Railroad Company by the act of 1864 was one in
prcesenti; that is, the company took a present title, as of the
date of the act, to the lands embraced by the terms of the grant;
the words "that there be, and hereby is, granted" importing
"a transfer of present title, not a promise to transfer one in
the future." In St. Paul & Pacific v. Northern Pacific, 139
U. S. 1, 5, the court said "that the route not being at the
time determined, the grant was in the nature of a float, and
the title did not attach to any specific, sections until they were
capable of identification; but when once identified the .title
attached to them as of the date of the grant, except as to such
sections as were specifically reserved. It is in this sense that
the grant is termed one in presenti; that is to say, it is of that
character as to all lands within the terms of the grant, and not
reserved from it at the time of the definite location of the route.
This is the construction given to similar, grants by this court,
where the question has been often considered; indeed, it is
so well settled as to be no longer open to discussion. Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, 60; Leavenworth, Lawrence &c.
Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Missouri, Kansas
&c. Railway Co. v. Kansas Pacific Railway Co., 97 U. S. 491;
Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426." The same principle
was reaffirmed in Bardon v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 145
U. S. 535, 543, and in many other cases which are familiar to
the profession and need not be cited.
Again, no lands passed that were not, at the date of the grant,
public land; that is, lands "open to sale or other disposition
under general laws," not lands "to which any claims or rights
of others have attached." Bardon v. Northern Pacific Railroad, above cited. At the time of the grant of 1864 to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company the lands here in dispute
were, as we have seen, among those withdrawn by the Land
Department from pre~imption, settlement and sale, and were
held specifically under the grant of May 5, 1864, for the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad. They were not, therefore,
public lands embraced by the later grant to the other company.

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The grant of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company spoke
as of the date of the act of July 2, 1864; and that company
did not acquire any title to these lands, then withdrawn, by
reason of the fact that when its line, at a subsequent date,
was definitely located 'they had become freed from the grant
made by the act of May 5, 1864, to the State of Minnesota.
Being at the date of the grant of July 2, 1864, under the operation of an order of withdrawal by the Land Department, they
were not in the category of lands embraced by that grant of
"public lands." When the withdrawal order ceased to be
in force the lands so withdrawn did not pass under the later
grant but became a part of the public domain, subject to be
disposed of under the general land laws, and not to be claimed
under any railroad land grant. There is no escape from this
conclusion under the adjudged cases.
In Kansas Pacific Railroad Co. v. Dunnmeyer, 113 U. -S.
629, in which the attempt was made to include within a railroad
grant lands to which a homestead claim had previously attached, but which claim had ceased to exist when the line of the
railroad was definitely fixed, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "No attempt has ever been made to include
lands reserved to the United States, which reservation afterwards ceased to exist, within the grant, though this road, and
others with grants in similar language, have more than once
passed through military reservations, for forts and other
purposes, which have been given up or abandoned as such
reservations and were of great value; nor is it understood'
that in any case where lands had been otherwise disposed of their
reversion to the Government brought them within the grant. . ."
In Bardon .v. Northern Pacific Railroad, above cited, Mr.
Justice Field, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court,
said: "In the Leavenworth case" (92 U. S. 733) "the appellant,
the railroad company, contended that the fee of the land was
in the United States, and only a right of occupancy remained
with the Indians; that under the grant the State would hold
the title subject to their right of occupancy; but as that had

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

been subsequently extinguished, there was no sound objection
to the granting act taking full effect. The court, however,
adhered to its conclusion, that the land covered by the grant
could only embrace lands which were at the time public lands,
free from any lawful claim of other parties, unless there was an
express provision showing that the grant was to have a more
extended operation, citing the decision in Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 496, 498, to which we have referred above, that land
once legally appropriated to any purpose was thereby sei'ered
from the public domain and a sulbseqtient sale would not be construed to embraze it, though not specially reserred. And of the
Indians' right of occupancy it said, that this right, with the
correlative obligation of the Government to enforce it, negatived the idea that Congress, even in the absence of any positive
stipulation to protect the Osages, intended to grant their land
to a railroad company, either absolutely or cum onere. 'For
all practical purposes,' the court added, 'they owned it; as
the actual right of possession, the only thing they deemed
of value, was secured to them by treaty, until they should
elect to surrender it to the United States.' Three justices,
of whom the writer of this opinion was one, dissented from the
majority of the court in The Leavenworth case; but the decision
has been uniformly adhered to since its announcement, and
this writer, after a much larger experience in the consideration.
of public land grants since that time, now readily concedes
that the rule of construction adopted, that, in the absence
of any express provision indicating otherwise, a grant of public
lands only applies to lands which are at the time free from
existing claims, is better and safer, both to the Government
and to private parties, than the rule which would pass the
property subject to the liens and claims of others. The latter
construction would open' a wide field of litigation between
the grantees and third parties."
'Again, in the same case, where the contention was that the
Northern Pacific grant embraced lands to which a premption
claim had previously attached, but which claim was, cancelled

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after the date of that grant, the court said: "That preemption
entry remained of record until August 5, 1865, when it was
cancelled, but this was after the date of the grant to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and also after the dates
of several grants made to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the
construction of railroad and telegraph lines within that State:
The cancellation, as already said, did not have the.effect of bringing the land under the operation of the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company; it simply restored the land to the
mass of public lands, to be dealt with subsequently in the same
manner as any other public lands of the United States not
covered by or excepted from the grant."
In United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 146 U. S.570,
606, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Brewer, said: "Indeed,
the intent of Congress in all railroad grants, as has been understood and declared by this court again and again, is that such
grant shall operate at a fixed time, and shall take only such
lands as at that time are -public lands, and, therefore, grantable
by Congress, and is never to be taken a. a floating authority
to appropriate all tracts within the specified limits which at
any subsequent time may become public lands." In Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, 92, Mr. Justice Brewer, again speaking for the court, said: "That when on the records of the local
lani office there is an existing claim on the part of an individual
under the homestead or preemption law, which has been
recognized by the officers of the Government and has not been
cancelled or set aside, the tract in respect to which that claim
is existing is excepted from the operation of a railroad land gran4
containing the ordinary excepting clauses, and this notwithstanding such claim may not be enforceable by the claimant,
and is subject to cancellation by the Government at its own
suggestion or upon the application of other parties. It was
not the intention of Congress to open a controversy between
the e)limant and the railroad company as to the validity of the
former's claim; it was enough that the claim existed, and the
question of its validity was a matter to be settled between

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. &.

the Government and the claimant, in respect to which the
railroad company was not permitted to be heard." In Spencer
v. MeDougal, 159 U. S. 62, 65, the court referred to Wolcott v.
Des Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681, in which the question arose
whether a grant of public lands, on each side of Des Moines
River, in aid of navigation, terminated at the mouth of Raccoon
Fork or extended along the whole length of the river to the
northern boundary of the State, and said: "The land departnent ordered that lands the whole length of the river within
the State should be withdrawn from sale. In the course of
subsequent litigation it was decided by this court that the grant
terminated at -the mouth of the Raccoon River. But in the
case cited it was held that the withdrawal by the land departmerit of lands above the mouth of the Raccoon River was
valid, and that a subsequent railroad grant, with the ordinary
reservation clause in it, did not operate upon lands so withdrawn."
So, in Northern Pacific Railroad v. Musser-Sauntry Co., 168
U. S. 604, 607, 611: "But a single question is presented in
this case, and that is whether the withdrawal from sale by the
Land Department in March, 1866, of lands within the indemnity limits of the grant of 1856 and 1864 exempted such
lands from the operation of the grant to the plaintiff. It will
be perceived that the grant in aid of the defendant railway
company was prior in date to that to the plaintiff, and that
before the time of the filing of plaintiff's map of general route
and definite location the lands were withdrawn for the benefit
of the defendant. The grant to the plaintiff was only of lands
to which the United States had 'full title, not reserved, sold,
granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption
or other claims or rights, at the time the line of'said road is
definitely fixed. The withdrawal by the Secretary in aid
of the grant to the State of Wisconsin was valid and operated
to -withdraw the odd-numbered 'sections within its limits
from disposal by the land officers of the Government under the
,general land laws. The act of the Secretary was in effect a
reservation. Wolcott v. Des Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681; Wolsey v.

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chapman, 101 U. S. 755, and cases cited in the opinion; Hamblin v. Western Land Company, 147 U. S. 531, and cases cited
in the opinion. It has also been held that such a withdrawal
is effective against claims arising under subsequent railroad
land grants. St. Paul & Pacific Railroad v. Northern Pacific
Railroad, 139 U. S. 1, 17, 18; Wisconsin Central Railroad v.
Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46, 54; Spencer v. McDougal, 159 U. S. 62.
All that we here hold is, that when a withdrawal of
lands within indemnity limits is made in aid of an earlier land
grant and made prior to the filing of the map of definite location
by a company having a later grant-the latter having such
words of exception and limitation as are found in the grant to
the plaintiff-it operates to except the withdrawn lands from
the scope of such later grant." The doctrines of these cases
were recognized in the recent case of Northern Pacific Railway v. Lacey, 174 U. S. 622.
In view of these decisions it is clear that as the lands in dispute were, at the date of the grant to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, withdrawn, of record, for the benefit of the
Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad, under a prior grant,
they were not public lands within the meaning of the later
grant, and did not come under it, when or because it was subsequently ascertained that they were without the line of the
definite location of the road of the Lake Superior Railroad Company, and within the place limits of the Northern Pacific as
defined by its map of definite location. When freed from
the operation of the accepted map of general route filed by
the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company, they
did not come under the operation of the later grant to the
Northern Pacific Railroad, but became a part of the public
lands constituting the public domain and subject only to be
disposed of under the general laws relating to the public
lands. If, by the act of July 2, 1864, or before the line of
the Northern Pacific Railroad was definitely located, Congress had, in terms,, appropriated, for the benefit of that
road, any of the lands embraced in the general route of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

other road, a different question would be presented. But
it did not do so. It only granted for the benefit of the Northern
Pacific Railroad lands which then, July 2, 1864, were public
lands, and no lands were public lands, within the meaning of
Congress, which, at that time, were withdrawn by the Land Department; that is, reserved for the purposes of a prior grant
although such reservation turned out to have been a mistake.
The suggestion is made in this connection that the order of
the Land Department was too uncertain and indefinite to have
any legal force, because the direction to the local land office
was to suspend from preemption, settlement and sale "a
body of land about twenty miles in width." We deem this
suggestion without merit. The order for withdrawal referred
to the diagram or map showing the road's probable route; and
it is agreed that the lands in dispute are coterminous and
within ten' miles of the line of the general route of the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad, as defined by the diagram
or map filed. The map, however indefinite, was intended
to cover these lands. It sufficiently indicated these lands
and the probable route of the road, and that was enough.
'Many cases are called to our attention which are supposed
to militate against the views we have here expressed. We have
examined those referred to and do not perceive that any one
of them decided the particular question now before us. No
one of them holds that- a grant, in prcesenti, of public lands,
with the ordinary reservations, embraces lands which, at the
date of such grant, are under the operation of -a formal order
of the Land Department, of record, withdrawing them for the
benefit of a prior grant in the'e-ftnt they should be needed for
the purposes of such grant. Nor do any of them hold that
the, subsequent cancellation of such -withdrawal order had the
effect to bring them under the operation of a later grant of
public lands. It is said that United States v. Oregon & Cal..
R. R. Co., 176 U. S. 28, and Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Co.,
176-U. S. 51, should beregarded as controlling and decisive
of. this case for the appellant. We do not think so. The

NORTHERN LUMBER CO. v. O'BRIEN.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

principal point decided in those cases was that nothing in the
act of 1864 prevented Congress by legislation from appropriating for the benefit of other railroad corporations lands that
might be or were embraced within the general route of the
Northern Pacific Railroad; and' this for the reason that an
accepted map of general route only gave the company filing
it an inchoate right and did not pass title to specific sections
until they were identified by a definite location of the road.
Besides, in neither case was there in force, at the date of the
later grant, an accepted, effective order of the Land Department
withdrawing the lands there in dispute pursuant to an accepted map of the general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad. If there had been an order of that kind, it would still
-have been competent for Congress to dispose of the lands,
within such general route, as it saw proper, at any time prior
to the definite location of the road under the later grant. In
conformity with prior decisions it was so adjudged in the two
cases above cited. Those cases did not adjudge that a grant
of "public land," with the usual reservations, embraced any
lands which, at the time, were formally withdrawn by the Land
Department from preemption, settlement or .sale, for the
benefit of a prir.grant.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals correctly interpreted the decisions of tl~is court and
did not err as to the law of the case. The judgment below
must, therefore, be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

