NEWMAN v. GATES.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

olous as not to afford a basis of jurisdiction, since it is foreclosed
that a mere contest over a state office, dependent for its solution
exclusively upon the application of the constitution of a State
ori upon a mere construction of a provision of a state law, involves no possible Federal question. Taylor v. Beckham, 178
U. S. 548. Whilst, when a state court has considered a Fcderal question, that fact may serve to elucidate whether a Federal issue properly arises for consideration by this court, that
doctrine has no application to a case where the controversy presented is inherently not Federal, and incapable of presenting a
Federal question for decision.
Writ of errordismissed.

NEWMAN v. GATES.
ERtROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 137.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF INDIANA..

Argued December 14, 17, 1906,M-Decided January 7, 1907.

Where the highest court of the State does not pass on the merits of the
case but dismisses the appeal because of defect of parties the case stands
as though no appeal had been taken; and as. this court, under ยง 709,
Rev. Stat., can only review judgments or decrees of a state court when
a Federal question is actually or constructively decided by the, highest
court of the State in which a decision in the suit can be had, no judgment or decree has been rendered reviewable by this court and the writ
of error must be dismissed.
Writ of error to review 165 Indiana, 171, dismissed.

JACOB NEWMAN, George Northrop, Jr., and S. 0. Levinson
commenced this action in the Superior Court of Marion County,
Indiana, against the defendant in error, Harry B. Gates.
Recovery of the sum of $1,400 was sought upon a judgment
obtained by Newman and his co-plaintiffs against Gates in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. The defendant
filed an answer in two paragraphs, but as the defenses therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

asserted were ultimately abandoned they need not be detailed.
A counterclaim was also filed, iA which it was alleged that the
plaintiffs were and for more than two years had been attorneys
at law engaged in the practice of their profession at Chicago,
Illinois, under the firm name of Newman & Northrop; that the
Illinois judgment sued upon was founded upon a claim for
legal services rendered to the defendant; that the services had
been rendered in advising the defendant, as trustee, in and
about the management of the property and assets of a corporation known as the American Mortar Company while in
course of administration in insolvency procee(lings, and that
the defendant had sustained damage to the extent of two
thousand dollars by reason of a breach of duty alleged to have
been committed by the plaintiff", in the course of their eml)loyinent in failing to obtain an order of the court in the insolvency proceedings relieving the defendant from personal
liability fo i attorney's fees and providing for payment of his
coml)ensation, etc. It was also charged that the plaintiffs
had been guilty of a breach or neglect of duty ill connection
with a sale of the trust p)rop)erty in the insolvency proceedings,
whereby defendant had sustained damages in the sum of
$2,500. A reply was filed to the counterclaim, in two paragraphs, one embracing a general denial and the other setting
up the Illinois judgment as rcs adjudicata as to all the matters
embraced in the counterclaim.
In due course the case camie on for trial and the l)laintiffs
recovered a ju(gment for the amotnt of their claim. The case

was taken to the Appellatc Court of Indiana. That court
reversed the judgment and remanded the case for a new trial,
Gates v. Newman, 18 Ind. A p . 392, and for want of authority
a petition for a writ of certiorari was denied by the Supreme
Court of Indiana. 150 Indiana, 59. In the opinion of the
Appellate Court, as also in a dissenting opinion, the character
of the counterclaim and the question whether, as respects the
matters therein set forth, the Illinois judgment was res adjudicata, were considered at great length. Following an in-

NEWMAN v. GATES.
204 U. S.

Statement' of the Case.

spection of the record of the Illinois action the court held that
the counterclaim stated matters which constituted something more than a mere defense to the claim asserted in the
Illinois action, that it could not be said that under the plea
of the general issue interposed by the defendant in that action
the matters averred in the counterclaim were necessarily
adjudicated, and that it was a question to be determined upon
the trial whether in fact such matters had been theretofore litigated and determined. On the new trial the court held that
certain of the issues made by the counterclaim and reply had
been litigated in the Illinois action and that the Illinois judgment was res adjudicata as. to such issues, but submitted to
the jury the question of the alleged neglect of plaintiffs in
failing in the insolvency proceedings to procure an order
charging the trust estate with the fees in question and the
compensation earned by defendant as trustee. And the court
left it to the jury to determine upon a preponderance of evidence whether or not it was the law of Illinois that the failure
of plaintiffs to procure such an order, if they did so fail, was a
matter which was adjudicated in the Illinois action, whether
evidence was introduced on such point or not, and the jury
was instructed that if such was the law of Illinois recovery
could not be had upon the counterclaim.
The second trial resulted in a verdict of $181.74 for the
defendant Gates, that being the sum found to be due him in
excess of the amount of the judgment sued upon. After the
entry of judgment and before the taking of an appeal George
W. Northrup, Jr., one of the original plaintiffs, (lied. An
appeal, however, was taken to*the Appellate Court of Indiana
by Jacob Newman and S. 0. Levinson, describing themselves
as surviving partners of the firm of Newman, Northrop &
Levinson. The personal representative of the deceased partner was not made a party to the appeal. The Appellate Court
of Indiana overruled an objection to the sufficiency of the
appeal and on the merits reversed the judgment and ordered
the cause remanded for a new trial. On the petition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

defendant Gates the Supreme Court of Indiana removed the
cause into that court for decision and subsequently dismissed
the appeal, holding that on account of the omission to make
the personal representative of George W. Northrop, Jr., a
co-appellant the appeal could not be determined upon the
merits. 165 Indiana, 171. A petition for a rehearing having
been denied, the cause was brought here.
Mr. Charles Martindale and Mr. S. S. Gregory for plaintiffs
inerror.
Mr. Edward E. Gates, with whom Mr. Albert Baker, Mr.
Edward Daniels and Mr. Lewis C. Walker were on the briefs,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been filed to dismiss the writ of error or to
affirm, and we proceed at once to its consideration. Several
grounds are urged in argument in support of the motion, but
we do not find it necessary to do more than consider an objection based upon the absence of a Federal question.
The errors assigned are as follows:
"The Supreme Court of Indiana erred in holding and deciding:
"1. That the counterclaim set up by appellee Gates, the
defendant, in the trial court, based upon a breach of the same
contract of hiring, which was the basis of the action of the
appellants against the appllee Gate., in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, was not adjudicated by the judgment
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, and by so deciding denied to the judgment of the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois, the force and effect which it has between the parties
in the State of Illinois, wherein it was rendered, and denies
full faith and credit to said judgment, contrary to and in

NEWMAN v. GATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

violation of Article 4, section 1 of the Constitution of the
United States.
"2. That the appellee's counterclaim being valid and not
merged and adjudicated by the judgment of the Circuit Court
of -Cook County, Illinois, it was of a nature which surived
against the personal representatives of a member of the partnership of Newman,- Northrop & Levinson, and that the personal representatives of the deceased partner were necessary
parties to, thi appeal, and not having bcen made parties that
neither the Appellate Court of the State of Indiana, nor the
Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, has jurisdiction to
determine the appeal and the same must be dismissed, and
judgment of dismissal was so rendered. Which final judgment of the Supreme Court necessarily involved the adjudication of the claim ofthe appellants to the protection of Article 4,
section 1, of the Constitution of the United States, 'that full
faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records and judicial proceedings of every other State,' which
adjudication was adverse to appellants" claim under said
provision of the Constitution of the United States."
These assignments plainly import that the Supreme Court
of Indiana on dismissing the appeal considered and decided
a question which had been submitted to the jury on the trial,
viz.' whether the matters alleged in the counterclaim as the
basis for a recovery over against the plaintiffs had or had not
been concluded by the Illinois judgment sued upon by the
plaintiffs. We do not so construe the opinion and decision
of the court.
The Appellate Court of Indiana had held on the 'first appeal
that the action of the trial court, in refusing to admit evidence
in support of the counterclaim, because the Illinois judgment
constituted res adjudicata, was error.

It had further decided

that the counterclaim was "based upon a breach of contract,"
and constituted an independent, affirmative cause of action
in favor of the defendant, and that whether the questions
therein involVed were in fact adjudicated in the Illinois action

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S

was a question for the jury. As a result of this ruling evidence
was introduced at the subsequent trial to establish what were
the questions litigated and determined in the Illinois action
and the extent to which by the laws of Illinois the judgment
in that case possessed conclusive force.
Now, in the opinion delivered by the Supreme Court of
Indiana, on dismissing the appeal, the court did not discuss
or in anywise refer to the scope and conclusive effect of the
Illinois judgment. Undoubtedly, the court, in view of- the
law of the case as declared on the first appeal, treated the
counterclaim as containing allegations of actionable breaches
of duty which inight have formed the subject of an independent action, and it is likewise evident that the court was of
opinion that the plaintiffs were bound to perfect their appeal
from the judgment upon the counterclaim, upon the hypothesis
that the counterclaim set forth a valid cause of action against
three individuals, viz., the plaintiffs in the main action. But
substantially the court only considered and disposed of a
preliminary (luestion as to its authority to pass upon the controverted questions contained in the record before it. It found
that there were in the counterclaim averments which it had
been held early in the litigation required to be submitted to
a jury, that the record exhibited a recovery upon the counterclaim against three persons, and that one of such persons had
died after the rendition of judgment against him and his
associates. Construing the statutes of Indiana, the court held
that the cause of action asserted in the counterclaim survived
the death-of the party deceased, against whom a recovery had
been had, that such cause of action could have been revived
against the personal representative of the deceased, and that
the personal representative was a necessary party appellant,
and, not having been made a co-appellant and served with
notice of the appeal, the court was without jurisdiction to
pass upon the errors assigned upon the appeal. To give effect
to the assignments of error we should be obliged to make the
impossible ruling that, despite the overruling of a demurrer

NEWMAN v. GATES.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the counterclaim by the trial court, and the decision in
respect to that pleading made by the.Appellate Court on the
first appeal, a mere inspection of the counterclaim so plainly
demonstrates that the pleading is destitute of merit that it
should be held to have been the duty of the state court of last
resort to have treated the pleading as a sham and to have
disposed of the appeal upon the hypothesis that the counterclaim was non-existent.
The removal of the cause from the Appellate Court into the
Supreme Court of Indiana vacated the decision of the former
tribunal, and after transfer the case stood in the highest court
of Indiana as though it had been appealed to that court directly from the trial court. Oster v. Broe, 161 Indiana, 113.
Had the appeal been properly taken it would have been the
duty of the Supreme Court of Indiana to pass upon the questions presented by the record before it, including, it may be,
a Federal question, based upon the due faith and credit clause
of the Constitution, which, on various occasions, was pressed
upon the attention of the trial court. In legal effect, however,
the case stands as though no appeal had been prosecuted from
the judgment rendered by the trial court. As the jurisdiction
of this court to review the judgments or decrees.of state courts
when a Federal question is presented is limited to the review
of a final judgment or decree, actually or constructively deciding such question, when rendered by the highest court of
a State in which a decision in the suit could be had, and as
for the want of a proper appeal no. final judgment or decree
in such court has been rendered, it results that the statutory
prerequisite for the exercise in this case of the reviewing power
of this court is wanting.
Writ of error dismissed.

