UNITED STATES v. HITE.
204 U. S.

343

Argument for Appellant.

jurisdiction of this court. And as the United States has not
consented to be sued, it results that. on this ground also the
bill must 'be dismissed.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JTISTICE MOODY took iii, part'in the disposition of this
case.

UNITED STATES v. HITE.
APPEAL FROM .THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 276.

Submitted December 18, 1906.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Under the act of March 3, 1889, 30 'Stat. 1228, the two months' pay to which
an officer of the Navy is entitled, who was detached from his vessel and
ordered home to be honorably discharged after creditable service during.
the war with Spain, is to be computed at the rate. of pay he was receiving
for sea service when detached, and not at the rate of his pay. for shore
service when he was actually discharged.
41 C. Cl., 256, affiried.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel and Mr. John Q.
Thompson, Special Attorney, for appellant:
During the interval of time between. December 17, when
claimant was detached from the battle ship Massachusetts,
and December 22, when he was discharged from the service,
a period of five days, he was not performing sea service, but
was on leave or waiting-orders pay;, and therefore was entitled to. compensation :during such time at the rate of $1,000
a year..
The language of the statute is "shall be paid two months'
extra pay," evidently meaning the same pay he would have
recei.ved if he had remained in the sare' service two months
longer, and if the claimant had remained in the same service

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

two months longer he would have received and been paid
compensation at the-rate of $1,000 per year, which was leave
or waiting-orders pay. And this is the construction given
to a like statute in the cases of United States v. North and
United States v. Emory, 112 U. S. 510.
The statute granting Hite . two months' extra pay was
approved March 3, 1899, about two months and a half after
he was discharged from the service and nearly ten months
after claimant's appointment. The provision for extra pay
was therefore a gratuity granted by Congress and for. which
the Government was in no way liable under its contract with
the claimant. - It therefore does not seem equitable that
he should receive the gratuity of two months' extra pay
based upon. his sea pay while rendering service beyond, the
limits of the United States.
Mr. Edward S. McCalmont, for appellee, submitted.
MR'.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a petition for the recovery of $116.66. The case
having been heard by the Court of Claims, that court, upon
the evidence,, filed the following findings of, fact and conclusion of law:.
"Findings of Fact.
"I. The, claimant, John M. Hite, was appointed assistant
engineer in the United States Navy, with the relative rank
of ensign, for temporary service .'during the late 'var with
Spain, on May 14, 1898; he reported for' duty on board the
U.' S..S. 'Massachusetts,' in obedience.,to orders of the Navy
Department,.on June 1, 1898, and served creditably as such
- officer on said' ship' ntil December 17, 1898,' at which date he
mas detached and ordered to his home, and on Decemb6r 22,
1898,' Was honorably discharged from the naval service.

UNITED STATES v. HITE.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The order referred to is in the words following:
"'Navy, Department,
"'Washington, D. C., Dec. 12, 1898.
"'Sir: You are hereby, detached from 'duty on board the
U. S. S. "Massachusetts," and, will proceed to your home.
"'Immediately upon-your arrival report your local address
in full to the Bureau of Navigation, Navy Department, Washington, D. C. See article 224, U. S. Navy RegulatiQns, 1896.
"'Report also the date of your detachment, and inform the
Department of the status of your accounts, and whether tyou
are indebted to the Government by reason of advances drawn
by you.
"'Respectfully,
"'JaN

D. LONG, Secretary.

"'Assistant Engineer John M. Hite, U. S. N.,
"'U. S. S. Massachusetts.'
"II. The U. S. S. 'Massachusetts' was in commission and
cruised beyond the limits of the United States (in Cuban
waters) during the time of the claimant's service on board.
".III. In settlement of claimant's claim for extra pay
authorized by the act of March 3, 1899, he was allowed by-the
accounting officers of the Treasury Department two months'
pay at the rate of pay of an assistant engineer in the Navy
on waiting orders only, to wit, $166.66.
"If entitled to two mQnths' pay upon the basis of sea ser.vice the difference is $116.66.
"Conclusion of Law.
'Upon the foregoing findings of fact the. court decides, as
a conclusioi of law, that. the claimant is entitled -to judgment in the' sum of one hundred and 'ixteen dollars and
sixty-six cents ($116.66)."

The case is reported in 41 Ct. Cl. 256.,
The act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1228, c. 427), among
other things, provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

The officers and enlisted men comprising the temporary
force of the Navy during, the war with Spain Whoserved
creditably beyond the limits- of the: United' States, and who
have been or may hereafter be discharged, shall be paid two
months' extra pay; and all such officers and enlisted men of
the Navy who have so served within the limits of the United
States, and who have been or may hereafter be discharged,
shall be paid ono month's extra pay.-"
Appellee's counsel say that the issue is. correctly stated
by counsel for the United States as follows:
"The claimant contends that the two months' extra pay provided for in the foregoing statute should be at the rate of
pay he received while doing sea service, to wit, $1,700 per year.
"The contention of the Government is that under the
rulings of this court'.in the cases of North and Emory (112
U.-S. R. p. 510) the claimant has been paid all that was due
him, inasmuch as he was paid two months' extra pay provided for in the statute. at the rate of pay he was receiving
at the time of his discharge, to wit, at the rate of $1,000 per annum."
Appellee was appointed an officer in the, Navy, May 14,
1898, by authority of the act of Congress of May 4, of, that
-year (30 Stat. 369, c. 234), wh.ich'plyovided:
"Whenever, within the next twelve. months, an exigency
may, exist which, in the judgment of the President, renders
their services necessary, he is hereby authorized to appoint
from civil life and commission such officers of the line and
staff, not above the rank or relative rank of commander,
and warrant officers, including warrant machinists, and such
officers of the Marine Corps not above the rank of captain,
to be appointed -from the non-commissioned officers of the
corps and from civil life, as may be requisite: Provided, That
such. officers shaU serve only during the continuance of the
exigency under which their services are required in the existing war."
The war with Spain began April 21, 1898, and the treaty

UNITED STATES v. HITE.
204 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

of Paris was signed December 10, 1898. Appellee served
until December 17, 1898, at- which time he was detached
from, the vessel on which he was serving and ordered home,
where, on December 22, "hewas honorably discharged from
the naval service. It seems to have been thought reasonable
that the..Government should pay the expenses of the journey
home and for the time in getting there.
The act'df March 3, 1899, provided for extra pay for active service. Hite was detached because' it became the De-partment's duty to discharge him under the proviso of the
act of 1898, and the detachment was m6nifestly preliminary
to his discharge. The order detaching him did not prescribe
that on arrival home he was to hold himself "on waiting orders" or for further assignment to duty. On the other hand,
it 'required him to inform' the Department of the status of his
accounts, obviously in order. that they might be: settled on
his leaving the service.
The two months' extra pay is, given, as Chief Justice Peelle,
delivering the opinion of the Court of Claims, says, "because
of creditable service'beyond the limits of the United States
during the war with Spain, and therefore upon discharge
such officers become entitled to the same pay they were receiving while so serving beyond the limits of the United
States." "To hold, because the claimant was ordered to his
home where he was discharged five days later instead of being
discharged on the day he was detached, that therefore he is
entitled only to the lesser'pay would be a construction too
narrow to harmonize with the purpose of Congress as disclosed
-by the ,act."
Notwithstanding -the considered dissenting
opinion 'in the court below, we agree with the conclusion. that
his engagement'having ended and he having been discharged,
the two months' extra pay should have been given him upon
the basis of the pay he was receiving 'when detached.
.The contention of the Government is'that this case is governed by, the 'uling in United States v. North, 112 U. S. 510.,
In that case it was held that officers of the Navy and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

regular Army, who were . employed in the. prosecution of the
war with Mexico, were entitled to the three months' extra
pay provided for by the act of Congress of July 19, 1848,
c. 104, ยง 5, 9 Stat. 248, and the act of February 19, 1879,
c. 90, 20 Stat. 316.
The act of 1848 provided: "That the officers, etc., engaged,
etc., in thewar with Mexico, and who served out the term
of their engagement, or have been or may be honorably discharged,
.shall
be entitled to receive three months'
extra pay.",
North was an officer in the Navy of the United States from
May 29, 1829. to January 14, 1861, when he resigned. He
served "in the War with Mexico, as lieutenant, on board the
frigate Potomac, from February 10, 1846, until July, 1847,
when his Vessel sailed for the United States. And Chief Justice Waite said:
"Those of .the regular. Army or Navy who were 'engaged
in the military service of the United States in the war with
Mexico' may be said to 'have served out the term of their
engagement,' or- to have been 'honorably discharged,' within
the meaning of those terms as used in the act of 1848, when
the war was over, or when they were ordered or mustered
out of that .service. Being in the Army and Navy, their
'engagement' was to serve wherever they were ordered 'for
duty. ' Their engagement to serve in the war with Mexico
service by proper
ended when they were taken away from that
authority.
"The pay they were to receive was evidently that which
they were receiving at the end of their engagement, or when
they were honorably discharged. The- language is, 'shall
be entitled to receive three months' extra pay,' evidently
;meaning the .same pay they would have received if they 'had
remained in the same service three months longer. It follows
that, as North was 'erving at sea when he was ordered away,
he ,was entitled ,to three months' sea pay, .
.
the serfrom
away
taken
was
appellee
.In thepre~ent case,

UNITED STATES FIDELITY- CO. v. KENYON.

349

Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

vice when he Was detached from his vessel, as he was appointed
to serve "only during the continuance of the exigency under
which their services were required in the existing war," and,
was entitled, in.the circumstances of the case, to extra ,ay on
the basis of that Which he was receiving when detached, as
we have said above.
Emory's case Was also considered by the court in the same
opinion, and the same conclusidn r6ached, and reference was
there made to-that case as reported in 19 Ct. Cl. 254.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it is

Affirmed.
MR.
case.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the disposition of this

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE BENEFIT OF
KENYON.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 173.

Argued January 18, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

Under the act of August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 278, as construed in the light of
the act passed the same day, 28 Stat. 282, and of the act amending the
latter passedJanuary 24, 1905, 33 Stat. 811, in suits brought in the name
of the United States for the benefit of materialmen and laborers on bonds
given in pursuance of the act, the United States is a real litigant, and not a
mere nominal party, and the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction of such suits without regard to the value of the matter in dispute.

By an act of Congress approved August 13, 1894, entitled
"An act for the protection of persons furnishing materials
and labor for the construction of public works," it was provided: "That hereafter any person or persons entering into

