OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

204 U. S.

On the twenty-eighth day of June, 1901, Turner and Kirkwood, as the successors in interest to Gray, having purchased
the warrants, as they allege, on January 5, 1901, filed their
motion to dismiss the original action, which was sustained.
They then (on June 28, 1901) brought suit against the city
of Guthrie for judgment upon the warrants against the city,
in which they 'failed in the District Court, and on appeal to
the 'Supreme Court, that court holding that the remedy, if
any, was by mandamus. 13 Oklahoma, 26. On the twentythird day of July, 1903, this mandamus proceeding was begun.
These facts do not disclose any laches in asserting their
rights such as would bar the right to obtain a writ of mandamus,
nor does it appear that the municipal corporation has been
in anywise prejudiced by the delay. In some form legal
warfare seems to have been waged for the collection of these
warrants by various holders in different courts without beneficial results until the present action.
While we do not put our decision upon the same grounds
as the Supreme Court of the Territory, we think its conclusion
was right, and its judgment will be
Affirmed.

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN
No. 138.

DISTRICT

OF

TEXAS.

Submitted December 21, 1906.-Decided Februar[ 25, 1907.

When the Circuit Court dismisses a case under the. provisions of § 1 of the
act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, as amended by § 1 of the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 434, because not substantially involving the
requisite amount in controversy to confer jurisdiction

the order of the

court, in this case without a jury, is subject to review in this court in
respect to the rulings of law and findings of fact upon the evidence.
Whatever plaintiff's motive in bringing his suit in the Federal court rather

than in the state court may be he has the right to act upon it.

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Where a plaintiff in good faith asserts a claim against several defendants
that acting together they have taken land from him of over $2,000 in
value and inflicted upon him damages of over $2,000, and requisite diverse
citizenship exists, the Circuit Court has jurisdiction and the case does
not fall within the dismissal provision of § 1 of the act of March 3, 1875,
because it appears to the trial judge that each of the defendants claims
that the part of plaintiffs' land which he has taken and the damages
recoverable against him would amount in value to less than $2,000. A
determination by the .judge that the defendants did not act jointly is
not a determination of a jurisdictional fact but of an essential element
of the mepits.

plaintiff in error, a citizen of New York, brought in
the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Texas, a petition
to try the title to 1,280 acres of land, against ten defendants,
citizens either of Texas, Kentucky or Illinois. Six of the
defendants were warrantors of the plaintiff's title, and questions arising as to them are not material here. The. petition
alleged that upon January 15, 1902, "the defendants Reagan,
Smith, Greer and Deven unlawfully entered upon said premises and dispossessed plaintiff thereof, and have since that
date unlawfully withheld from the plaintiff the possession
thereof, to his damage $2,000.00;" that the plaintiff's title
was derived by mesne conveyances from two patents of adjoining lots of land, known respectively as survey 27 and
survey 91; that prior to plaintiff's acquisition of title the two
surveys were circumscribed by a fence two miles long and
one mile wide, making a single tract of land of those dimensions; that the value of the land was $5,000, and that the
defendants have destroyed fences and other improvements
and thereby damaged the plaintiff in the sum of $2,000;
and prayed possession of the land, and damages.
The answer of Reagan alleged that he was the owner of
part of the land described in the petition by a title separate
and independent from the other defendants; that his land
is enclosed by a fence and in his possession; that he disclaims
title to the remainder of the land claimed; that the allegation in the petition that he entered upon any other than his
own land-was untrue, "and made with the intent to confer
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement *f the Case.

24 U. S.

upon this court jurisdiction over him;" that the value of the
land which he entered, is in possession of and claims, is less
than $800, and asked that the suit abate as to him.
Treating the foregoing answer as a plea in abatement,
Reagan, without waiving it, further answered, disclaiming
as to part of the land claimed in the petition and pleading
the general issue as to the remainder.
The answer of Greer was substantially the same, except
that the value of the land upon which he entered and was
possessed of was alleged to be less than $600. Greer further
answered, alleging the pendency in the courts of the ;State
of an action "to try title to recover of S. A. Greer, a defendant
in the case at bar, one T. Smith and others, the title and possession of the land described in the petition in the case at bar,"
and praying that the cause await the determination of the
cause in the state court. The answer of Smith contained
the same allegations with regard to the pendency of the action
in the state court as that of Greer, disclaimed as to part of
the land described in the petition and pleaded the general
issue as to the remainder. Deven filed no answer.
More than a year after the last of the foregoing pleadings
were filed the plaintiff filed what was entitled "First amended
original petition." In it Lee, also a resident of Texas, was
named as an additional defendant. The amendment seems
to be substantially like the original petition, except that it
alleged' that "the defendants Reagan, Smith, Greer, Lee and
Deven together unlawfully entered upon said premises and
dispossessed plaintiff thereof," and that "all of said defendants
have jointly taken possession of plaintiff's said land;" that
the plaintiff has acquired title to land by the statute of limitations, and that the action is one to fix and determine the
boundaries, which are uncertain, and that "the entire land
is the subject matter of this controversy as between the plaintiff and each and all of said defendants."
Subsequently Lee answered, alleging that he was the owner
of part of the land described in plaintiff's petition by a title

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

separate and independent fiom that of the other defendants,
and with respect to that he pleads the general issue, and.
disclaims as to the remainder.
The answer also alleged that
I
the matter in controversy, did not exceed the sum of $2,000,
and that "the claim of plaintiff as set forth in his petition as
to the value of said land, improvements, rents and damages,
exceeding $2,000, has been fraudulently alleged with the
intent and purpose to confer jurisdiction upon this honorable
court, when in truth and in fact no such jurisdiction existed,
because the matter iL controversy is of less than $2,000 in
value."
Subsequently Smith amended his answer and alleged that
he was the owher and in possession of 443 acres of the land
described in plaintiff's petition, which was of the value of
$1,500, and disclaimed as to the, remainder. He also alleged
that the valuation placed by the plaintiff on the land, and the
plaintiff's allegation that "he and S. A. Greer jointly took
possession of said lands, '": was "fraudulently claimed and
alleged for the intent and purpose of conferring jurisdiction
upon this honorable court, when in truth and in fact no such
jurisdiction existed, because the whole matter in controversy
is. and was of less value than $2,000." He further alleged
that the controversy had been adjudicated in the state court.
The pleas to the jurisdiction were, on motion of the defendants,
tried by the judge, jury being waived, who found that "the
pleas of ,each of the said defendants Reagan, Lee, Smith and
Greer is fully proved and sustained, and that this court has no
jurisdiction over the subject matter in dispute," and dismissed
the action for want of jurisdiction. A writ of error was
allowed "solely upon the question of jurisdiction," the judge
certifying that no other question was tried, transmitted the
record containing a bill of exceptions to this court.
The bill of exceptions shows that it was agreed that the
plaintiff owned the two surveys, 91 and 27, containing 1,280
acres, of a value much exceeding $2,000; that Lee owned
section 32, Reagan section 31, Smith section 28, and Greer

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
0

204 U. S.

section 90, all of which were adjoining sections-and surrounded
three sides of the plaintiff's land.' The dispute concerned
the situation of the boundaries.c- As the defendants claimed
the boundaries, they owned 1,014,acres of what the plaintiff
claimed to be his land, which when he acquired it was enclosed by a fence in one parcel of 1,280 acres. Of the 1,014
acres taken from the land claimed by plaintiff, Lee claimed
96, Reagan 288, Smith 443 and Greer 187. The evidence
which is -reported in full in the bill of exceptions shows the
following facts: In 1892; before any of the defendants appeared claiming title, the 1,280 acres claimed by the plaintiff
were enclosed as one parcel by a substantial fence, and were
known as the Pendleton pasture. Subsequently the plaintiff acquired title to the enclosed land. Smith pulled down
part and Reagan another part of the Pendleton pasture fence,
and Smith and Greer each pastured their cattle throughout
the Pendleton pasture.
Mr. David T. Bomar and Mr. Frank E. Dycus,,for plaintiff
in error, submitted:
A joint trespass by the. defendants upon the enclosed lands
of the plaintiff authorized an { ction by- the plaintiff to join
all of the defendants in one suit. Greer v. Mezes, 24 How.
268, 663; L. & N. Ry. Co. v. Smith (C. C. A.), 128 Fed, Rep.
5; McGuire v. Pensacola City, 105 Fed. Rep. 679; 1 Pom.
Eq. Jur., §§ 145, 273.
The right to fix and establish the boundaries of the entire
1,280 acres being the object of the suit, as to each and all
of the defendants, the value of the entire tract is the matter
in dispute. L. & N. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 128 Fed. Rep. 5; Munsey v. Matfield (Tex.), 40 S.W. Rep. 346.
A disclaimer by the defendants, or either of them, does
not take away the jurisdiction of the court, which is fixed
by the claim of the demandant.
Where the Circuit Court dismisses a case for lack of jurisdictional value, the evidence on which that conclusion is

SMITHERS v. SMITH. 7
204 U. S.

Argument for; Plaintiff in Error.

reached must be shown of record to a legal certainty. The
lack of jurisdiction must clearly appear. Barry v. Edmunds,
116 U. S. 553; Wetmore v. Reiner, 169 U. S. 115; Waterworks v.
Ryan, 181 U. S. 409; Gage v. Pumpelly, 103 U. S. 164.
The Supreme Court will look into the facts, review the
'evidence and determine whether it supports the action of
the Circuit Court in dismissing the case for lack of jurisdiction.
Wetmore v. Reimer, 169. U. S. 115; Steglider v. McGusten,
198 U. S. 140.The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is fixed by the matter
in dispute at the date of the decree rendered in that court.
Knapp v. Banks, 2 How. 74, 184; Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S.
670; Mass. Benefit Ass'n v. Miles, 137 U. S. 689, 835.
It is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the court, that it
had jurisdiction at the time the decree was rendered, and it
is immaterial how long before that time its jurisdiction had
attached. Washer v. Bullitt Co., 110 U. S. 558; Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Ketcham, 101 U. S. 289; First Nat'l Bank v. Bedford
Tr. Co., 80 Fed: Rep. 572.
In the action of trespass to try title in Texas, the plaintiff
may, by amendment, set up a new cause of action or a new
title acquired by him after the suit was brought. The cause
-thereupon proceeds as a new suit based on such amendment.
Collins v. Ballew, 72 Texas, 330; Ballard v. Carmichael, 83
Texas, 359; Sinsheimer v. Kahn, 24 S. W. Rep. 535; Schmidt v.
Huff, 28 S. W. Rep. 1055.
The disclaimer by the defendants of lands found in their
possession did not take away the jurisdiction of the court,
provided said lands exceeded in value, with the damages and
rents, the sum of $2,000. Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229;
Galbreath v. Howard, 32 S. W. Rep. 808; Wooters v. Hall,
67 Texas, 513; Dykes v. Miller, 24 Texas, 422; Capt. v. "Stubbs,
68 Texas, 225; Tate v. Wyatt, 77 Texas, 412.
The jurisdiction of the court as between plaintiff and Smith
and Greer is not to be determined by the value of the right
of the present possession but by the value of the entire 720

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

204 U. S.

acres of the land in controversy now in Smith's possession.
Black ,. Jackson, 177 U. S. 335.

Mr. Theodore Mack, Mr. Sam. J. Hunter and Mr. Ray Hunter, for defendants in error, submitted:
The presumption is that a cause is without the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court unless the contrary affirmatively appears.
Grace v. Ins. Co., 1.09 U. :S. 278; People v. Fordyce, 119 U. S.
469; Turner v. Bank, 4 Dallas, 8; Livingston v. Van Ingen,
1 Paine,.45; Federal Cases No. 8420; Nashville & St. L. Ry. v.
Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168.
Distinct demands cannot be united in one suit by a plaintiff
against several defendants in order to give the court jurisdiction. 1 Desty, 374; Walter v. Northeastern Ry., 147 U. S.
370; Fishbackv. Western Union, 161 U. S. 96; Bank v. Cannon,
164 U. S. 319; Busy v. Smith, 67 Fed. Rep. 13.
If several persons have a common undivided interest,
although separable as between themselves, the amount of their
joint interest is the test of the jurisdiction. But this is not
true where the. claims are. in their nature separate. Holt v.
Bergevin, 60 Fed. Rep. 1; -Walter v. Northeastern Ry. Co.,
147 U. S. 370; Putney v. Whitmire, 66 Fed. Rep. 385.
Where shareholders are individually liable for the debts
of a corporation, the claims of creditors against shareholders
are several and cannot be joined to .make up the required
amount. 1 Desty, 375; Auer v. Lombard, 33 U. S. App. 438;
S. C., 72 Fed. Rep. 209.
In an action by the taxpayers to restrain the issue of municipal bonds, the amount of taxes which plaintiff would have to
pay, and not the entire issue, would be the test of jurisdictional
amount. 1 Desty, 375; Colvin v. Jacksonville, 158 U. S. 456.
An allegation of the amount of taxes to be collected in
different counties cannot be made for the purpose of obtaining the jurisdictional amount of $2,000.00. 1 Desty, 376;
Fishback v. Western Union, 161 U. S. 96; Bank v. (annon,
164 U. S. 319.

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

When one sues for an amount which exceeds $2,000, but
at the trial his own evidence shows that he actually claims
less than $2,000, the court is without jurisdiction. 1 Desty,
377; Cabot v. McMaster, 61 Fed. Rep. 129; United States v.
Poe, 61 Fed. Rep. 475; Horst v. Merkely, 59 Fed. Rep. 502;
Holden v. Utah, 82. Fed. Rep. 209.
The court does not acquire jurisdiction where the amount
claimed is not claimed in good faith. Bank v. Bradley, 36
U. S. App. 519; S. C., 72 Fed. Rep. 67; Am. Wringer Co. v.
Ionia, 76 Fed. Rep. 6.
All doubts as to jurisdiction must be resolved against the
court's jurisdiction. Railway Co. v. State Board of A'ssessors,
132 Fed. Rep. 629; McDaniel v. Taylor, 123 Fed. Rep. 338.
When defendant claims part of the premises only, the
answer shall be equivalent to a, disclaimer of the balance.
Tex. Rev. Stat. 5269.
Upon defendants filing disclaimer the court may render
judgment for the land disclaimed. Burk v. Mangham, 37
S. W. Rep. 459.
Matter in dispute is something upon which the court must
hear evidence. 18 U. S. Stat. 472, part 3; Stilwell'v. Williamston, 80 Fed. Rep. 69; Bouman v. Ry. Co., 115 U.'S. 611; Cabot v.
McMaster, 61 Fed. Rep. i29.
As to disclaimer leaving court without jurisdiction, see
Cooper v. Preston, 105 Fed. Rep. 403; Stemmler v. McNeal,
102 Fed. Rep. 660; Herringv. Swayne, 84 Texas, 525; Wooters v.
Hall, 67 Texas, 515.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY,

The plaintiff in. error brought an action in the Circuit Court
for the recovery of certain land and damages for the detention
thereof, basing jurisdiction upon a diversity of citizenship,
which was undisputed. In such case it is essential to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court that "the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

two thousand dollars." Act of March 3, 1875; c. 137, § 1,
18 Stat. 470. Amended act of August 13, 1888; c. 866, § 1,
25 Stat. 434. The action was dismissed by the authority
given by section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, in which it is
provided that "if in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court
. . . it shall appear to the said Circuit Court, at any time
after such suit has been brought

.

.

that such suit

.

does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
or that the parties to such suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined either as plaintiffs or defendants for
the purpose of creating a case cognizable

.

.

.

under this

act," the court shall dismiss the suit. The propriety of the dismissal is brought here for review by virtue of section 5 of the
act of March 3, 1891, and is the only question for decision.
The plaintiff was the owner in fee simple of a quadrangular
lot of land two miles long and one mile wide, containing 1,280
acres, enclosed by a fence, and known as the Pendleton pasture.
Its value largely exceeded two thousand dollars. He soughtto recover possession of this land and damages from the defendants Reagan, Smith, Greer, Deven and Lee, who, as he
claimed, had disseized him of the land, and were unlawfully
holding possession. In ascertaining the precise nature of
the plaintiff's claim we take into account not only the original
petition, but that pleading entitled "First amended original
petition," although it is urged that it does not appear that
the amendment was allowed by the cQurt. It is not clear
that the amendment adds anything, material to the question
presented here, to the original petition, but, however that
may be, as it is certified to be a part of the record and was
answered by one of the defendants, we assume that it was
properly allowed, and was not a mere casual intruder among
the papers in the case. The plaintiff alleged in substance
in the original and more specifically in the amended petition
that the defendants had jointly entered upon, taken and held
possession of his land, which was of the value of $5,000, and

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inflicted damages of $2,000 upon him by the unlawful entry
and possession, and sought to recover of all the defendants
the whole parcel of land and all the damages claimed. Thus
the plaintiff set forth a case within the jurisdiction of the
court. Giving to the defendants' answers- the broadest
possible effect, they each, for the purpose of disputing the
jurisdiction of the court, denied that they had jointly entered
upon plaintiff's land, and, each disclaiming as to the remainder, alleged that, under a title separate and independent from
the other defendants, he had entered upon and held possession
of only a certain part of the plaintiff's land, which together
with the damages inflicted by the entry and possession was of
much less value than $2,000. The answers further alleged
that the allegations of the value of the land, the extent of.
the damages and the joint action of the defendants in entering,
taking and holding possession were fraudulently made by the
plaintiff with the intent and purpose of conferring jurisdiction
upon the court, when in truth no such jurisdiction existed,
because the matter in controversy was in reality less than
the value of $2,000. Upon the motion of the defendants the
judge, without a jury, passed upon the question of jurisdiction,
and, after hearing evidence, found that the pleas of the defendants as to the jurisdiction were "fully proved and sustained," and that the court has. no jurisdiction over the subject
matter in dispute, and dismissed the suit.
The order of the court is subject to review in this court in
respect of the rulings of law and findings of fact upon the
evidence. *Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115.
The absence of any opinion in the court below, and of any
finding of fact except by reference to the several answers of the
defendants, which are said to be "fully proved and sustained,"
and of any more specific recital in the judgment than that the
suit was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, 'enders it somewhat difficult to understand the facts and reasons which led
to the dismissal. But upon an examination of the whole
record it seems clear that the court found:
VOL. cciv-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

(1)- That the defendants did not jointly take and hold the'
plaintiff's land;
(2) That each defendant, acting independently of the
others, took and held only a part of plaintiff's land, and that
each part thus taken and held by each defendant was of less
value than $2,000; and
(3) That the plaintiff in his petition had fraudulently
stated the value of his land, the extent of his damages and
the joint character of defendant's action in entering and taking
possession of his land, and had done this for the purpose of
conferring jurisdiction upon the court.
If the last finding of fact was warranted by the evidence
there is no need of going further, because such a state of facts
would demand a dismissal of the action. Ordinarily the
plaintiff's claim with- respect to the value of the property
taken from him or the amount of damages incurred by him
through the defendants' wrongful act measures for jurisdictional
purposes the value of the matter in controversy, Smith v.
Greenhow, 109 U. S. 669; Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550;
Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Wiley V. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58;
unless, upon ipspection of the plaintiff's declaration, it appears
that, as a matter of law, it is not possible for the plaintiff to
recover the jurisdictional amount. Lee v. Watson, 1 Wall.
337; Schacker v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 93 U. S. 241; Vance v.
Vandercook Company, 170 U. S. 468; North American Company v. Morrison, 178 U. S. 262. The rule that the plaintiff's
allegations of value govern in determining the jurisdiction,
except where upon the face of his own pleadings it is not legally possible for him to recover the jurisdictional amount,
controls even where the declarations show that a perfect
defense might be interposed to a sufficient amount of the claim
to reduce it below the jurisdictional amount. Schunk v.
Moline Co., 147 U. S. 500. In the last case the plaintiff's
petition prayed judgment on several promissory notes, of
which some, amounting to $530, were due, and others, amounting to $1,664, were not due, the jurisdictional amount then,

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as now, being $2,000. In holding that the court had jurisdiction of the claim this court, by Mr, Justice Brewer, said:
"Although there might be a perfect defense to the suit for
at least the amount not yet due, yet the fact of a defense,
and a good defense, too, would not affect the question as to
what was the amount in dispute. Suppose an action were
brought on a non-negotiable note for $2,500, the consideration
for which was fully stated in the petition, and which was a sale
of lottery tickets, or any other matter distinctly prohibited
by statute, can there be a doubt that the Circuit Court would
have jurisdiction? There would be presented a claim to
recover the $2,500; and whether that claim was sustainable
or not, that would be the real sum in dispute. In short, the
fact of a valid defense to a cause of action, although apparent
on the face of the petition, does not diminish the amount that
is claimed, nor determine what is the matter in dispute; for
who can say in advance that that defense will be presented
by the defendant, or, if presented, sustained by the court."
Nevertheless, however stringent and far reaching the rule
may be that it is the plaintiff's statement of his case which
governs in determining the jurisdiction, it does not exclude
the power of the court to protect. itself against fraud. This
was pointed out in Smith v. Greenhow, 109 U. S. 669, where it
was said that, if the court found as a fact that the damages
were laid in the declaration colorably and beyond a reasonable
expectation of recovery for the purpose of creating jurisdiction, there would be authority for dismissing the case, and,
following this statement of the law, it was held that where the
'judge of the Circuit Court, upon sufficient evidence, found
that the damages, had been claimed and magnified fraudulently beyond the jurisdictional amount, the action should
be dismissed. Globe Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co.,
190 U. S.540. It follows, therefore, as has been said, that if
the third finding of the judge in the court below was warranted, his action in dismissing the case should be affirmed.
But after an examination of the evidence we are of the opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

that nothing in it warranted any such finding. it appeared
clearly that the Pendleton pasture, which the plaintiff sought
to recover against all the defendants, was of a value much in
excess of the jurisdictional amount. There was not a word
of evidence reflecting upon the plaintiff's good faith in bringing the action, in joining the defendants, or in framing his
petition. He doubtless preferred to try his controversy in
the Federal courts, and whatever the motive of his preference
may have been, he had the right to act upon it. Blair v.
Chicago, 201 U. S. 400; Chicago v. Mills, decided February 4,
this term, ante, p. 321. Therefore the validity of the order Qf
dismissal must be considered, after an elimination of the finding that the plaintiff's claim was fraudulently made.
The plaintiff's claim, which we now assume to have been
made in good faith, was that the defendants, acting together,
took and held from him land of the value of $5,000, and at
the same time inflicted damages upon him of $2,000. Upon
any possible theory of law this claim states the plaintiff's
side of a controversy, which is unquestionably within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. When it is duly put in
issue by the defendants' pleadings the record upon its face
discloses a controversy between citizens of different States,
in which "the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand dollars
in value," and, therefore, one which is within-the exact words
of the act conferring jurisdiction upon that court. It is
legally possible for the plaintiff to recover the full amount
of all the land and the full amount of the damages claimed.
We know of no case that holds that in such a situation the
judge of the Circuit Court is authorized to interpose and try
a sufficient part of the controversy between the parties to
satisfy himself that 'the plaintiff ought to recover less than
the jurisdictional amount, and to conclude, therefore, that the
real controversy between the parties is concerning a subject
of less than the jurisdictional value, and we think that by
sound principle he is forbidden to do so. In exercising the
authority to dismiss the action conferred by the act of 1875

SMITHERS v. SMITH.
204 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the judge may proceed upon motion of the parties or upon
his own motion, and, if he chooses, without trial by jury.
Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209; Wetmore v. Rymer, ub. sup.
Such an authority obviously is not unlimited, and its limits
ought to be ascertained and observed, lest under the guise
of determining jurisdiction the merits of the controversy between the parties be summarily decided without the ordinary
incidents of a trial, including the right to a jury. For it must
not be forgotten that where in good faith one has brought
into court a cause of action, which, as stated by him, is clearly
within its jurisdiction, he has the right to try its merits in the
manner provided by the Constitution and law, and can not be
compelled to submit to a trial of another kind. This was
clearly stated by Mr. Justice Matthews in Barry v. Edmunds,
116 U. S. at page 565, who said: "In no case is,
it permissible
for the court to substitute itself for the jury, and compel a
compliance on the part of the latter with -its own view of the
facts in evidence, as the standard and measure of that justice,
which the jury itself is the appointed constitutional tribunal
to award." In applying these general principles for the purpose of ascertaining the limits of the authority to dismiss
summarily for lack of jurisdiction the circumstance that in
this case a jury was waived by the parties is without signifi-,
cance, because if the judge had authority to adopt this summary
method he could dispense with the jury, whether the parties
agreed to it or not.
The error into which the judge in the court below has fallen
is shown by an analysis of his findings. He did not find that
the land which the plaintiff claimed to recover was not of a
value, in excess of $2,000, but that parts of that land, which
each defendant claimed that the plaintiff ought only to recover
against him, were each of less than the value of $2,000.. As
the plaintiff alleged and the defendants denied that the defendants jointly took and held his whole lot of land, the judge,
on the conceded value of the plaintiff's land, in order to have
arrived at the conclusion that the case should be dismissed,

OCTOBER TERM; 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

must have found that the defendants had not jointly taken
and held the whole of the plaintiff's land. In doing this we
think he exceeded his authority under the statute, and in
determining the jurisdiction, in effect, decided the controversy
between the parties upon the merits. In deciding that the
defendants had not acted jointly, as the 'plaintiff alleged and
the defendants denied, he determined not a jurisdictional
fact, but an essential element of the merits of the dispute upon
which the parties were at issue.
An assumption which underlay the action of the court below -in dismissing the case evidently was that if the defendants,
as they asserted in their pleadings, had, each, acting by virtue
of a separate and independent title, taken and held a part
only of the plaintiff's land, each part being, less than the
jurisdictional amotint, although the whole was of more than the
jurisdictional amount, there was no controversy within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The correctness of this
assumption of law has been argued before us by the parties.
We do not deem it necessary to decide that question. There
is certainly respectable authority which tends to show that
in such a case the plaintiff, being the owner of a single lot of
land, may maintain one action against all the defendants and
that the measure of jurisdiction is the value of the plaintiff's,
land, and not the value of the part held by each defendant.
The appropriate rule, however, to be applied to the facts of
this case can be better determined in a trial on the merits,
where instructions on their varied aspects may be given to
the jury, subject to the review provided by law.
Because the Circuit Court erred in dismissing the case for
want of jurisdiction, ifs action must be reversed.
The judgment of the court.below is therefore reversed and the
cause remanded to that court with directions to take such further
proceedings therein as the law requires and in conformity with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTcE BREWER dissents.

