OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

MASON CITY AND FORT DODGE RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOYNTON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170.

Argued January 22, 23, 1907.-Decided February 25, 1907.

In condemnation proceedings the words plaintiff and defendant can only
be used in an uncommon and liberal sense, and although a state statute
may describe the landowner and the condemning corporation as plaintiff and defendant respectively, and the state court may hold them to be
such, this court is not bound by that construction in construing the act
of Congress regarding removal of causes and may determine the relation
of the parties and who is entitled to remove the suit.
A condemnation proceeding is a suit even though the condemning corporation may be free to decline to take the property after the valuation, it
being charged with costs in case it elects not to take.
Under the Iowa statute, in a condemnation proceeding, the landowner is
the defendant within the meaning of the act of Congress regarding removal of causes, and may remove the proceeding to the proper United
States Circuit Court, notwithstanding the state statute provides that he
is the plaintiff in such proceedings.

case comes here on the following. certificate:
"The United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Cir~uit, sitting at the City of St. Louis, Missouri, on the eighth
day of December, A. D. 1905, certifies that the record on file
in the above entitled cause, which is pending in such court
upon a writ of error duly issued to review a judgment rendered
in such cause in favor of the defendant in error in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa,
discloses the following:
"The Code of Iowa, 1897, in a chapter relating to the taking
of private property for works of internal improvement, including the construction and repair of railways, contains the
following:
THIS

MASON CITY R. R. CO. v. BOYNTON.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"'SEC. 1999. If the owner of any real estate necessary to be
taken for either of the purposes mentioned in this chapter
refuses to grant the right of way or other necessary interest
in said real estate required for such purposes, or if -the owner
and the corporation cannot agree upon the compensation
to be paid for the same, the sheriff of. the county in which
such real estate may be situated shall, upon written application
of either party, appoint six freeholders of said county not
interested in the same or a like question, who shall inspect
said real estate, and assess the damages which said owner
will sustain by the appropriation of his land for the use of
said corporation, and make report in writing to the sheriff
of said county; and, if the corporation shall, at any time
before it enters upon said real estate for the purpose of constructing said railway, pay to the sheriff, for the use of the
owner, the sum so assessed and returned to him as aforesaid,
it may construct and maintain its railway over and across
such premises.'
"'SEc. 2009. Either party may appeal from such assessment
to the District Court within thirty days after the assessment
is made, by giving the adverse party, or, if such party is the
corporation,, its agent or attorney, and the sheriff notice in
writing that such appeal has been taken. The sheriff shall
thereupon file a certified copy of so much of the appraisement
as applies to the part appealed fropi, and said court shall try
the same as in an action by ordinary proceedings. The land
owner shall be plaintiff and the corporation defendant.
"'SEC. 2010. An appeal shall not delay the prosecution of
work upon said railway, if said corporation pays or deposits
with the sheriff the amount assessed. The sheriff shall not
pay such deposit over to the person entitled thereto after
the service of notice- of appeal, but shall retain the same until
the determination thereof.

.

.

"'SEc. 2011. On the trial of the appeal no judgment shall
be rendered except for costs. The amount of damages shall
be ascertained and entered of record, and if no money has

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

been paid or deposited with the sheriff the corporation shall
pay the amount so ascertained, or deposit the same with the
sheriff before entering upon the premises. Should the corporation decline to take the property and pay the damages
awarded on final determination of the appeal, then it shall
pay, in addition to the costs and damages actually suffered
by the land owner, a reasonable attorney's fee, to be taxed
by the court.
SEC. 2012. If, on the trial of ;the appeal, the damages
awarded by the commissioners are increased, the corporation
shall pay or deposit with the sheriff the whole amount of
damages awarded before entering on or u'sing or controlling
the premises. The sheriff, upon being furnished with a
certified copy of the assessment, may remove said corporation,
and all persons acting for or under it, from said premises,
unless the amount of the assessment is forthwith paid or
deposited with him.
"'SEc. 2013. If the amount awarded by the commissioners
is decreased on the trial of the appeal, the 'reduced amount
only shall be paid the landowners.'
"Section 3497 of the Code of Iowa, 1897, also provides:
"'An action may be brought against any railroad corporain any county through which such 'road or
tion,
line passes or is operated.'
"The Mason City and Fort Dodge Railroad Company,
.plaintiff in error, hereinafter called railroad company, was a
railroad corporation organized and existing under the laws
of the State of Iowa, and as such entitled to avail itself of the
,provisions of the foregoing statutes of Iowa. C. D. Boynton,'
defendant in error, hereinafter called the owner, was the
owner of certain lots of ground in the Town of -Carroll, Carroll
County, in the State of Iowa, and was at all times mentioned
herein a citizen of the State of Missouri.' Prior to February 18,
1902, the railroad company, requiring Boynton's lots as a
right of way for the construction of its railroad, filed an application in the office of' the sheriff of Carroll County, asking

MASON CITY R. R. CO. v. BOYNTON.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

for the appointment of six freeholders to inspect the lots and
assess the damages which the owner would sustain by the
appropriation of his lots for the use of the railroad company.
On February 18, 1902, the commissioners were duly appointed
by the sheriff and made their report, assessing the owner's
damages occasioned by the appropriation of his lots by the
railroad company at $4,750.00.
"On the same day the railroad company paid the sheriff
that amount of money for the use of the owner.
"Afterwards, and within the time fixed by the state statute,
the owner appealed from the commissioners' award to the
District Court of Carroll County. In due -time, the owner
filed in the last mentioned court a petition for the removal
of the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western Division of the Southern District of Iowa, on the
ground of diversity in citizenship. In his petition and bond
to secure such removal the owner referred to and treated
himself as the defendant, and referred to and treated the
railroad company as the plaintiff, in the case.
"In due course the cause came on for hearing in the Circuit Court, when the parties, by a written stipulation filed
with the clerk, waived a jury and agreed to try the case to the
court. Both parties introduced evidence and fully subnitted themselves to the jurisdiction of the court (if they
could do so). The trial resulted in an assessment of the
owner's damages at $11,445, and in a judgment against the
railroad company for costs, including a fee of $300 for the
owner's attorneys. In due time the railroad company regularly
sued out a writ of error to the end that the record and proceedings in the'Circuit Court might be reviewed by this court.
The assignment of errors which accompanied the petition for
the writ of error alleged that the Circuit Court erred in ascertaining and fixing the amount of damages to be paid by the railroad Company for its appropriation of the owner's lots, in that'
there was an entire absence of evidence to support the award
and finding. At no time during the pendency of the pr6-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

ceedings in the Circuit Court did the railroad company question
the jurisdiction of that court or the right of the owner to remove the cause into that court, but both parties participated
in the trial up to a final judgment, and in the proceeding to
secure a writ of error, as if there was no question of jurisdiction in the case. Not until the railroad company filed
its brief in. this court was the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
in any manner challenged. But in its brief, as also in the
oral' argument made in its behalf, the chief point relied upon.
by the railroad company to secure a reversal of the finding
and judgment of the Circuit Court, is that the owner was the
plaintiff in said cause and proceeding, and did not have the
right to remove the same into the Circuit Court and that therefore that court could not entertain jurisdiction thereof.
"And the -Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
further certifies that the following questions of law are -presented in this cause, that their decision is indispensable to a
decision of the cause, and that to the end that such court
may properly decide the issues of law so presented it desires
the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United States
upon such questions, to wit:
"1. Was the land owner a defendant within the meaning
of the removal statute, when the suit was removed into the
Circuit Court?
"2. If the land owner was not a defendant, within the
meaning of the removing statute, could the Circuit Court take
cognizance of the suit through a removal by him? ,Stated
in other words, the question is this: Is the provision of the
removal statute, to the effect that the removal, on the ground
of diverse citizenship, may be 'by the defendant or defendants therein, being non-residents of that State,' restrictive
and jurisdictional in the sense that cognizance of the suit
can be taken by the Circuit Court through a removal only
when it is by .the -defendant, or is the provision only. modal
and formal in the sense that non-compliance therewith, or
non-conformity thereto, may be waived?

MASON CITY R. R. CO. v. BOYNTON.
204 U. S.

Argument for Mason City & Fort Dodge Railroad Co.

"3. Is the judicial proceeding which the land owner is
authorized by the statute of Iowa to initiate in the District
Court of the State, by way of a so-called appeal from the
assessment of the commissioners selected by the sheriff, a
suit which can be originally instituted in the Circuit Court
of the United States, when the citizenship of the parties and
the sum or value of the matter in dispute are such as to make
the suit otherwise cognizable in that court?
"4. If the Circuit Court could not have taken cognizance
of the suit through the removal by the land owner, and if the
Circuit Court could have taken cognizance of the suit through
its original institution in that court after the assessment by
the commissioners, did the parties by appearing in the Cir-,
cuit Court and there litigating to a final conclusion the matter
in dispute, without any objection to the jurisdiction of the
court or to the manner in which its jurisdiction was invoked,
authorize the Circuit Court to exercise jurisdiction and to
proceed to final judgment in like manner and with like effect
as if the suit had been originally instituted in that court,
the citizenship of the parties and the sum or value of the
matter in dispute being\such as to make the suit otherwise
cognizable in that court?"
Mr. Thomas D. Healy, with whom Mr. A. G. Briggs, Mr.
John L. Erdall, Mr. M. F. Healy and Mr. Robert Healy were
on the bief, for Mason City and Fort Dodge Railroad Company:
The landowner was plaintiff within the meaning of the
removal statute, when the suit was removed into the Circuit Court.
The corporation seeking to condemn real estate is in fact
the defendant, and occupies a position analogous to that of
a defendant in a case brought to recover the value of real
.estate which has been appropriated. This is the case where
there is nothing left to contest but the value of the real estate
taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Boynton.

204 U. S.

When the case was transferred to the District Court by appealing from the award of the commissioners, it took, under
the statutes of the State, the form of a suit at law, and was
thenceforth subject to its ordinary rules and incidents. No
other question was open to contest in the state District Court.
Turner v. Holeran, 11 Minnesota, 253; Mississippi Boom
Company v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403; Meyers v. C. & N. W.,
118 Iowa, 312; §§ 1999, 2009, 2010, 2011 of the Code (1897)
of Iowa.
Mr. Benjamin I. Salinger, for Boynton:
Within the meaning of the removal act, this land-owner was
r4ot a plaintiff, and no case holds that he is except Myers v.
Railway, 118 Iowa, 312, and.Kirby v. Railway, 106 Fed. Rep.
552.
The non-resident landowner may remove before he appeals
to the state court from award made. Railway v. Day, 54
Fed. Rep. 545; Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 249.
While state laws, and decisions by state courts of last resort, may, as to litigants who remain in the courts of the State,
settle, arbitrarily, who is plaintiff, neither a legislature nor such
courts may, directly or indirectly, abridge the right to remove to the Federal court in a case of which that court has
original, concurrent jurisdiction. Hess v. Reynolds, 113
U. S. 73; Myers v. Railway, 118 Iowa, 312, 321; Terminal Co.
v. Ry., 119 Fed. Rep: 209; Searle v. District, 124 U. S. 197;
Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 249; Reagan v. Loan Co.,
154 U. S. 391.
What is removable in one State must be so in every other;
and a State may not vary the standard of removability by
making proceedings which affect the property rights of a
non-residefit unlike what suits usually are. Cases supra.
While the Federal courts will, in such cases as plaintiff in
error cites, follow the decisions of the highest state courts,
even where the soundness of such decisions is not approved,
this rule does not apply to state decisions that directly or

MASON CITY R. R. CO. v. BOYNTON.
204 U. S.

Argument for Boynton.

indirectly tend to abridge the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts. Cases supra.
While it has been settled that certain instances of seeking
to increase an award are equivalent to beginning suit to obtain pay for land appropriated, this does not necessarily settle that every non-resident landowner who appeals from a
condemnation award is a plaintiff within the meaning of the
removal act, and the cases that so defined the beginning of
suit did not, and had no occasion to, hold that such owner
was such plaintiff.
If it may be claimed that some of the cases so defining the
beginning of suit do hold that the appealing landowner was a
plaintiff, they do so on the theory that his appeal could not
and did not present anything but the question of compensation.
Under the statutes of Iowa such appeal could also present
whether conditions existed which, under such statutes warranted condemnation proceedings. Terminal Co. v. Railway
Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 209.
Under those statutes the condemnation at bar was sufficiently a judicial proceeding to make the one who instituted
it, 'rather than the owner who appealed from the award, the
plaintiff. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 241; Boom
Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 404; Searle v. District, 124 U. S.
199, 200.
Had the Iowa statutes done less than to make the proceedings on condemnation sufficiently judicial to allow a
hearing on whether the right to condemn existed, anI confined
them to the mere right to have compensation ascertained,
there would have been a denial of due process of law. Traction
Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 251, 252.
While consent cannot give jurisdiction, if one party assert
the facts necessary to jurisdiction and they are not put in issue,
and if a court competent to try the question whether jurisdiction exists, decides that it does, it is an adjudication that
jurisdiction exists.
VOL. cclv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

While judicial decisions can not create jurisdiction in the
tribunal that decides what jurisdiction a court, competent to
try the question of fact or law involved, can, by deciding that
another court has jurisdiction, preclude inquiry into said jurisdiction unless the decision is directly attacked. Railway Co.
v. Daughtry, 138 U. S. 298; Cable v. Ry., 88 Fed. Rep. 803;
Connell v. Smiley, 156 U. S. 335; Davies v. Lathrop, 13 Fed.
Rep. 565; Railway v. Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322; Sims v. Hundley, 6
How. 1; De Sobrey v. Nicholson, 3 Wall. 420; Goodnow v. Burrows, 74 Iowa, 266; Kirby v. Railway Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 552.
While the order of the state court granting a removal will
not avail against conflicting action on part of the Federal
courts, if such order is neither appealed from nor nullified
by the court to which the removal is taken, such order of
the state court, as against collateral attack, establishes conclusively that there was jurisdiction to remove. Telegraph
Co. v. Griffith (Ga.), 30 S. E. Rep. 420; Dillon's Rem. of Causes
(5th ed.), 174; Black, Dillonl Rem. par. 191; Removal Cases,
100 U. S.474; Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Bank v.
Dodge, 42 N. J. L. 316; Walker v. O'Neil, 38 Fed. Rep. 374;
Goodnow v. Burrows, 74 Iowa, 266.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co.,
196 U. S. 239, it was decided that proceedings of this character
could be removed to the United States Circuit Court. The
question to be decided now is only whether the removal in
this case can be upset on the ground that it was asked by the
wrong party. The railroad company relies upon the words of
the Iowa Code, § 2009, quoted above, and upon a decision
of the Supreme Court of the State in a case like the present,
except that the railroad was a foreign company, in which
it was held that the railroad had a right to remove. Myers v.
Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 118 Iowa, 312, 324. See

MASON CITY R. R. CO. v. BOYNTON.
204 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

also Kirby v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 106 Fed. Rep.
551. It is said that this court is bouffd by the construction
given to the state law by the state court. Indeed the above
§ 2009 does not need construction; it enacts, in terms, that
the landowner shall be plaintiff. As the right to remove a
suit is given only to the defendants therein, being non-residents
of the State, it is argued that the state decision ends the case.
But this court must construe the Act of Congress regarding
removal. And it iSobvious that the word defendant as there
used is directed toward more important matters than the
burden of proof or the right to open and close. It is quite
conceivable that a state enactment might reverse the names
which for the purposes'of removal this court might think the
proper ones to be applied. In condemnation proceedings the
words plaintiff and defendant can be used only in an uncommon
and liberal sense. The plaintiff complains of nothing. The
defendant denies no past or threatened wrong. Both parties
are actors: one to acquire title, the other to get as large pay
as he can. It is not necessary in order to decide that the
present removal was ight to say that the state decision was
wrong. We leave the latter question where we find it. But
we are of opinion that the removal in this case was right for
reasons which it will not take long to state.
It is'said the proceedings only become a case, within the
meaning of the Act of Congress, after the preliminary assessment and the appeal, and that then the landowner is in the
position of one demanding pay for property which he has
lost. If we take a general view of the Iowa statutes, this
conclusion is not correct. The railroad might have taken
the appeal. If it had, the landowner would have been on the
defensive in endeavoring at least to uphold the assessment
but he would have been called the plaintiff none the less.
Whichever party appeals, it is not true that the landowner
is seeking pay for what he has lost. By § 2011 the railroad
is free to decline to take the property if it thinks the price
too large. Even if, as. in this case; it deposits the amount

OCTOBIDR TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

first assessed with the sheriff, the latter is not to pay it over
until the determination of the appeal. Sec. 2010. We see no
reason to suppose that the deposit impairs the railroad's right
to withdraw, although the Supreme Court of Iowa 'says,
ubi supra, that by payment and entry the railroad appropriates the land. -See § 2013. Probably, too, the position
of the parties under the Act of Congress should be determined
upon general considerations without regard to what has
happened. Looked at as a whole, the Iowa statutes provide
a process by which railroads and others may acquire land for
their purposes which the owner refuses to sell. The first step
is the valuation. Whether it is part of the case or not, it is
a necessary condition to the proceedings in court. Against
the will of the owner the title to the land is not acquired until
the case is decided and the price paid. The intent of the
railroad to get the land is the mainspring of the proceedings
*from beginning to end, and the persistence of that intent is
the condition of their effect. The State is too considerate
of the rights of its citizens to take from them their land in
exchange for a mere right of action. The land is not lost
until the owner is paid. Therefore, in a broad sense, the
railroad is the plaintiff, as the institution and continuance
of the proceedings depend upon its will. Hudson River
Railroad & Terminal Co. v. Day, 54 Fed. Rep. 545.
It is not argued that this is any the less a suit because the
railroad is free to decline to take the property. The adjudication fixes the right of the railroad to take the land at the price
adjudged, and charges it with costs and attorngy's fees taxed
by the court, in case it elects' not to take. The question is
not discussed in Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard
Mining Co., 196 U. S.239, where, if there had been anything
in it, possibly it might have been raised.
As what we have said issufficient to dispose of the matter
of the certificate, we think it unnecessary to consider other
arguments, or to answer any question but the first.
The first question is answered, Yes.

