HAIRE v. RICE.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

v. Cothram, 117 Illinois, 458, 461; Cox v. Jordan, 86 Illinois,
560, 565.
Judgment affirihed.
M111.JUSTICE
JUSTICE DAY

BREWER,

MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM

and MR.

dissent.

MONTANA ex rel. HAIRE v. RICE, STATE TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE 'STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 252.

Argued January 7, 8, 1907.-Decided January 28, 1907.

Although a Federal right may not have been specially set up in the original
petition or earlier proceedings if it clearly and untmnistakably appears from
the opinion of the state court under review that a Federal question was
assumed by the highest court of the State to be in issue, and was actually
decided against the Federal claim, and such decision was essential to
the judgment rendered this court has jurisdiction to retixamine that
I
question on writ of error.
In granting lands for educational purposes to Montana by § 17 of the
Enabling Act of February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. 676, to be held, appropriated,
-etc., in such manner as the legislature of the State should provide, Congress intended to designate, and the act will be so construed, such legislature as should be established by the constitution to be adopted, and
which should act as a parliamentary body" in subordination to that constitution; and it did not give the management and disposal of such lands,
to the legislature or its members independently of the methods and limitations prescribed by the constitution of the State.
Whether a state statute relating to the disposition of such lands and their
proceeds is or is not repugnant to the state constitution is for the state
court to determine and its decision: is conclusive here.
Where the claim that the construction given to a state statute by the highest
court of the State impairs the obligation of a contract appears for the
first time in the petition for writ of error from this court, it comes too
late to give this court jurisdiction of that question even though another
Federal question has been properly raised and brought here by the same
writ of error.

By an act approved February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. 676, hereafter referred: to as the Enabling Act, the State of Montana

OCTOBER TERM,. 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

was, with other States, admitted to the Union. By-it grants
of public lands were made by the United States to the several
States admitted, of which only those made by section 17 need
be stated here. By that section grants were made to the State
of Montana in the following terms: ,
"To the State of Montana: For the establishment and maintenance of a school of mines, one hundred thousand acres;
for State Normal School, one hundred thousand acres; for'agricultural colleges, in addition to the grant hereinbefore made
for that purpose, fifty thousand acres; for the establishment
of a State Reform School, fifty thousand acres; for the establishment of a deaf and dumb asylum, fifty thousand acres;
for public buildings at the capital of the State, in addition to
the grant hereinbefore made for the purpose, one hundred
and fifty thousand acres.
t *
And the lands granted by this section shall be
held, appropriated and disposed of exclusively for the purposes
herein mentioned, in such manner as the legislatures of the
respective States may severally provide."
Provision was made in the act for the selection of the granted
lands from the surveyed, unreserved and unappropriated public
lands of the United States, and selections were made by the
State of, Montana. The constitutional convention of Montana
adopted an ordinance designated as Ordinance No. 1, entitled
"Federal Relations," which ordained that "the State hereby
accepts the several grants of land from the United States to
the State of Montana,

.

.

.

upon the terms and condi-

tions therein provided." An act of the legislative assembly of
the State of Montana, approved February. 2, 1905, authorized
and directed the state board of land commissioners to sign
and issue' interest-bearing bonds to the amount of $75,000,
for the principal and interest of which the State of Montana
should not be liable (section 1), and directed the state treasurer
to sell the bonds (section 6). Section 7 directed that"The moneys derived from the sale of said bonds shall be
used to erect, furnish and equip an addition to the present

HAIRE.v. RICE.
•204 U. S.,

Statement of the Case.

State Normal School building at Dillon,, Montana, and shall
be paid out for Such purpose by the state treasurer upon
vouchers approved by the executive board of the State Normal
School, and allowed and ordered paid by the state board of
examiners."
The law further provided that all sums realized from the
sale 6f, -or the leasing of, or from licenses to cut trees on the
lands granted for the'State Normal School by section 17 of
the Enabling Act should be pledged as security for the paynient of the principal and interest of the bonds issued under
the act, and should be set apart as a separate fund for that
purpose. It was made the duty of the state treasurer to keep
such money in a fund to be designated as the State Normal
School fund, and to pay therefrom the principal and interest
of the bonds authorized by the act.
Section 12, Article XI, of the constitution of the State of
Montana is as follows:
"The funds of the State University and all other state institutions of learning, from whatever source accruing, shall
forever remain inviolate and sacred to the purpose for which
they were dedicated. The various funds shall be respectively
invested under Stich regulations as may be prescribed by law,
and shall be guaranteed by the State against loss or diversion.
The interest of said invested funds, together with the rents,
,from leased lands or properties, shall be devoted to the maintenance and perpetuation of these respective institutions."
The bonds authorized by the foregoing law of the State of
Montana were duly offered' for sale, and purchased by the state
board of land Commissioners themselves as an investment of
the common school fund of the State.
Charles S. Haire performed valuable services as an architect
in the erection of an addition to the State Normal School,
obtained vouchers.approved and allowed in the manner prescribed in section 7 of the state law, and presented the vouchers
to the state treasurer, who declined to pay them, whereupon
the State of Montana, on his relation, brought a petition in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

204 U. S.

the Supreme Court of the State of Montana against the state.
treasurer, praying an alternative 'Writ of mandamus, directing
the respondent to pay his claim out of the fund created by, the
sale of bonds aforesaid, or to show cause for the refusal. The
alternative-%vrit issued, and to it the respondent interposed a
demurrer and *a motion to quash. The only reason alleged
-by the respondent in support 'of. his pleadings, material here,
waS that the act of the legislature was in violation of the constitufion of Montana. The case was heard by all the-judges
of the Supreme Court of the State, as an original case, and it
was adjudged that the alternative writ of mandamus be
(luashed and the proceedings dismissed, for the reasons that
the act authorizing the issue of the -bonds, -secured by pledge
of the proceeds of the lands, was a violation of section 12,
article XI, of the state constitution, and that this section of
the constitution was not-in conflict with section 17 of the'
E nabling Act. I-Lirb then petitioned the court for a rehearing, alleging the following reasons:
1. Because tlie opinion is"inconsistent and contradictory;
2. Because the court does not gi- e any force'or effect to the
re(quirenients of section 17 of the Enabling Act, that the lands
granted for aState Normal School shall be appropriated for
the purpose for which the grant is, made, and in other respects
misconstrue section -17;
3. Becaus.- the court misconstrued kection 12, article XI,
of .the constitution. of Montana.
JIn thefurther development and specification, in the petition
for rehearing. of. the, second reason, it appears,- in substance,
that among the groands .elied upon to support it were the
claims that section 17 of the Enabling Act had directed that,
the legislature and not the State should dispose of'the granted
lands; that the lands- or their proceed were appropriated byi
'Congress to the establishment as well as the-maintenance of the
normal school; and that in acting.in pursuance of the authority
conferred'by Congress the legislature was not restricted by the
constitution 6of the State, whieb in that respect was subordinate

HAIRE v. RICE.
204 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to the authority of a law of the United States. The Supreme
Court of the State took the petition for rehearing under advisement, modified slightly, but not essentially, its former opinion,
which had passed adversely on the claims of the. petitioner'set
forth in the petition for rehearing, denied the rehearing and
entered final judgment for the, respondent. Whereupon this,
.writ of error was brought, assigning as errors:
"I. The said court erred in holding and deciding that the
act of -Congress, approved February 22, 1889,, providing,
among other things, for the admission of Montana into the
Union, and known as the 'Enabling Act,' does not authorize
the legislative assembly of the State of Montana to appropriate
or apply the proceeds cerived from the sale or leasing of the
lands granted to said State by section 17 of said act for state
normal schools, or from the sale of the timber thereon, to the
establishment of such schools.
"II. The, court erred in holding that section 12 of article XI
of the constitution of the State, as construed 'by said court,
is not repugnant to section 17 of said act of Congress, and-is
valid.
"III. The court erred in holding and deciding that section 12
of article XI of the constitution of the State of Montana, as
construed by said court, does not impair the obligation of the
contract resulting from the acteptance of the grant of lands
made to the State of Mbntana by section 17 of said act of
Congress.
"IV. The court-erred in holding and deciding that the proceeds derived from the sale of said lands and the.timber thereon
constitute a permanent fund, no part of which can be used to
,establish a State Normal School, or for any other purpose
except that -of investment.
"V. The court erred in holding and:, deciding that- the interest received.from the investment of the proceeds of the sale
of said lands and the timiber thereon, together with the rents
derived frorn leasing said lands, can be used only for the purpose
of mainfaining and perpetuating a State Normal School.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

204 V. S.

"VI. The court erred in holding and deciding that the act
of the legislative assembly of the State of Montana, entitled
'An act to enable the normal school'land grant to be further
,utilized in providing additional buildings and equipment for
the State Normal School College,' approved February 2, 1905,
*is invalid, as-,being in conflict with section 12 of Article XI
"of the constitution of the State of Montana.
"VII. The court erred in denying the application of plaintiff
in error for a writ of mandate."
Mr. M. S. Gunn ftr plait/tiff'in error:
The Enabling Act authorizes the legislative assembly of
the State of Montana to appropriate the proceeds derived,
from the sale and leasing of the, lands granted to said State,
by § 17 of said act', for state ,normal schools, and from the sale
of the timber thereon to the -establishment of such schools.
If, as plaintiff in error contends, § 17 of the Enabling Act
authorizes tho legislative assembly of the State 'to appropriate
the proceeds derived from the -said lands. to the establishment
of state normal schools,. then §17 controls, notwithstanding
the provisions of' § 12; article ,XI of the state constitution'as
construed by the Supreme Court of :the State.. If a provision
of a constitution, or a "statute of a State is inconsistent 'with
the Constitution of th6 United States or an act of Congress,
it is not law.. Art. VI, Corist. of the United States. - Cngress
is given. power to dispose 'of the public lands and 'to make all
n edful rules land regulations 'respecting them. Art. IV,' § 3,
Const. of tie United States 'Pursuant to this authority the
grants in, the Enabling Act, were made.' These grants are laws,
and, if § 12 of article XI of the constitution of Montana is
inconlsigtent therewith,. it must ,yield to the act of. Congress
making said grants, whiehis the supreme law of 'the land.
The acceptance of the grant contained in § 17 of 'the Enabling
Act'created a contract, and. § 12 of article XI of the Montana
constitution, a- construed by the Supreme Court of the State,
impairs 'the obligation of such contract.' McGehee v. Mathis,

HAIRE v. RICE.
204 U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

4 Wall. 143; Missouri &c. Ry. Co. v. Railway Co., 97 U. S.
491;. Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall.. 44; Crunn v. Barry,
15 Wall. 10.
Mr. Albert J. Galen, with whom Mr. W. II. Poorman and
Mr. E. M: Hall were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court..
Thp objection is made that no Federal question is presented
,by the record. It must, therefore, be determined whether the
controversy turned in the state court upon any Federal question, and if so, whether it was raised and decided in that court
in the manner required to give this court jurisdiction to reexamine the decision upon it.. The jurisdiction to do this depends upon whether the case falls within that part of section 709
of the Revised Statutes, by which this court is given the authority upon writ of error to reexamine the final judgment or
decree of the highest court of a State, "where any title, right,
privilege or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or
any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against the
title, righ, -privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed,
by either party, under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or authority." Our jurisdiction in this case does not
exist, unless a right claimed under a law of the United States,
or an authority exercised under the United States, was specially
set " up in and denied by the Supreme Court of, Montana. A
brief discussion of the facts will determine whether these conditions of jurisdiction are, present. The United States granted
to the State of Montaina one hundred thousand acres of the
public lands for a normal school, to be held, appropriated and
disposed of for such purpose, in such manner as the legislature
should provide. The legislature, by a law enacted in due
form, did provide that bonds should be issued, secured by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
"Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

proceeds of the sale, or leasing of the lands; that the -proceeds
of the bonds should be used for the. erection of an addlition to
a normal school building and paid out for that purpose on
approved vouchers.' In effect, though by,a circuitous method,
this was a devotion of the proceeds of the sale of the land to
[he erection of an addition to the building. Haire presented
to the-state treasurer, the custodian and 'disbursing officer of:
the fund, approved vouchers for his claim for serVices in the
ereetion, and payment of them \xas refused. The State, on
,relation of Haire, .by proceedings which 'were deemed appropriate in form, sought to enforce 'against the state treasurer
the payment of the vouchers, claiming, as appears from the
opinion of the state court:
First. That the legislature had authority, under a statute
of the United States, namely, section 17 of the Enabling Act
to deal with the lands as it did. by the bond act;
Secornd. -That the°bond act was not in violation of the state
cQnstitution; 'and,.
Third. That if 'it were in violation of that constitution, the
'Jaw, enacted' in"pursuance of I an authority granted by the,
Uiited .St-ates was valid and 'effective notwithstanding. All
.three 'of these claims were denied by the, state court. The
first A'Pd, third are clearly claims of 'a"right under an authority.
ekercised "under theI United'States," and,- thdrefore, raised a
Federal' question. Magziire v. 'Tyler, 1 Black, 195. Bt-it is
not dnough that the cldim of a Federal right arose upon the
facts. It must,also Appear affirmatively that the right was
"specially set- up." No reference was made to' any. Federal
right in the petition for the writ 'of mandamus, the demurrer,
or the motion to quash, and the petition. for 'a rehearing, where
the Federal question Was first brought fforward by 'the plaintiff
in .error,.so'faras the'record discloses, Was denied by the' court.
It is not enough that the Federal question was first presented
by a, petition for 'a.rehearing, unless that qiestion was. thereupon considered,: and passed on adversely by ,the court.' Corkran Oil Com pany.v. Arnaudet; 199 U. R. 182.

HAIRE v. RICE.
20N U. S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

But an examination of -the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the State shows clearly that that court (leei(lcd two, questions: 'first, that- the bond act was in violation of section 12
of article XI of the state constitution, which in isubstance
provided that all. funds of'the state institutions of learning
should be invested and only the interest upol them used
for the support of those institutions; an(l, second, a question
statedin the opinion as follows: "But oh behalf of the relator
it is conten(ed that by the terms.'of section 17 of the Enabling
Act the lands granted to the State for normal !ichool purposes
are to be held, appropriated and disposed of exclusively for
nbrmal school purposes, in ,such manner as the legislature of
Montana may provide, and that thiA act is sufficiently broad
to warrant the legislature in borrowing. money and pledging
such lands for the payment.of the principal and interest. And
it'is further contended that, if section 12 of article XI of the
constitution contravenes the provisions of section 17 of the
Enabling Act, section 12 is invalid and -of no force or effect,"
which was decided adversely to the contentioi's stated. The
decision of both questions, as the court determined them,
was essential to the judgment. rendered, and the decision of
the second was a distinct denial of the Federal right claimed
by the plaintiff in error. Where it clearly and unmistakably
appears from the opinion of the state court under review that
a Federal question was 'assumed by the highest court of the
State to be in issue, was actually decided against the Federal
claim, and the decision of the' question was essential to the
judgment rendered, it is sufficient to give this court authority
to re~xamine that question on writ of error. San Jos6 Land
& Water Company v. San Jos6 Ranch Company, 189 U. S.
177. Applying this rule to the case, there .is jurisdiction
to re~xaniine the claim of the plaintiff in error on its merits.
In support of it the plaintiff in error argues that the grant
of all the land by the Enabling Act was by an ordinance
accepted by the State " upon*the terms and conditions therein
provided; that the ]egislature of the State was. by the last

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.,
Opinion of the Court.

204 U. S.

clause of sectiQn 17 appointed as agent of the United States,
with full power-.to dispose, of the lands in any manner which
. it deemed -fitting, provided only that the lands or: their proceeds should be devoted to normal school purposes; and that,
therefore,, in the execution of this agency the legislature was
not and, could not-be restrained by the provisions of the state
constitution. It is vitally necessary to the conclusion reached
by these arguments that the Enabling Act should be interpreted as constituting the legislature; as a body of individuals
and not as a parliamentary body, the agent of the United
States. But it is not susceptible of such an interpretation.
It granted the lands to the State of Mofitana-, and the title
'to them, when selected, vested in the' grantee'. In the same
act :the people of the Territory, about to become -a State,
were authorized to choose delegates to a convention charged
with the duty of forming a constitution and state governmont.
It was contemplated by Congress that the convention would
create the legislature, determine-its place in. the state govern.
ment, its relations to. the other governmental agencies, its
methods of procedure, and, in accordance with- the universal
practice of. the States, lirmit 'ts powers.. It is not to be- supposed that Congress intended that the authority conferred
by section. 17 of' the. Enabling Act upon the legislature
should be exercised by the mere ascertainment of its will,
perhaps when not in stated session, or by a majority of.*the
votes of the two houses, sitting together, or-without the assent
of the, executive, or independently of"the methods and lin-itatiohis i upon its powers prescribed. by its. creator. On, the
contrary, the natural inference is that Congress, in designating
the legislatufeas the' agency- to'deal with the lands, intended
such a jegislature as Would be established by the constitution
of the State. It was to a legi slature. whose powers were
certain, to be linjited by theorganic law,'to' a legislature as
a parliamentar'y ,body, ctirig within its 'lawful powers, and
.. by parliamentary tnethods, and nQt to the collection of individuals, who for the tinrme beinig might lihappen to be members

HAIRE v. RICE.
204 U.S.

•301

Opinion of the Court.

of that body that the authority over these lands was given
b-y the Enabling Act. It'follows, therefore, that in executing
the authority entrusted io it by Congress the legislature must
act in subordination to the state constitution, and we think
that in so holdifig the Supreme Court of the State committed
no error.
It is further claimed by the plaintiff in error that the Supreme Court of the State erred in holding that thelaw under
which bonds were issued and the proceeds of public lands
devoted to their payment was repugnant to the constitution
of the State. Upon this question the decision of that court
is conclusive, and plainly we have no power to-review it.
It is further urged that the construction given by the state
court to its constitution impaired the obligation of a contract, resulting from the acceptance of the granted lands
by the State of Montana, and that this impairmient was in
violation of the Constitution of the United States. Nothing
more need be said of that claim than that it appears for the
first tiffie in the petition for a writ of error from; this court,

and the accompanying assignment of errors. This is not
suffi cient to give this court jurisdiction of any Federal question (Cork-ran v. Arnaudel, uib. sup.), even though another
Federal question has been properly raised and brought here
by the-same writ of error. Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U.S. 193.
Other questions were a'gued, but the view, we have taken.
of the case renders it unnecessary to consider them.
The judgment of, the Supreme Court of Montana is therefore
Affirmed.

