OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

246 U. S.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Argued March 27, 28, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

The "28 Hour Law," forbidding interstate railroads from confining
animals in cars beyond a certain period without unloading them for
rest, water and feeding, unless prevented by accidental or unavoidable causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the exercise
of due diligence and foresight, and subjecting every such carrier
who knowingly and wilfully fails to comply therewith to a penalty,
must be construed with a view to carrying out its humanitarian
purpose, but the exception in favor of the carrier must be given
proper latitude hnd enforced in the light of practical railroad conditions.
If, in the exercise of ordinary care, prudence and foresight, the carrier
reasonably expects that, following the determined schedule, the
containing car will reach destination, or some unloading place, within
the prescribed time, it properly may be put in transit. Thereafter,
the duty is on the carrier to exercise the diligence and foresight which
prudent men, experienced in such matters, would adopt, to prevent
accidents and delays and to overcome the effect of any which may
happen, with an honest purpose always to secure unloading within
the lawful period.. If, notwithstanding all this, unloading is actually prevented by storm or accident the reasonable delay must
be excused.
234 Fed. Rep. 268, reversed.

T~m case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles A. Vilas, with whom Mr. William G.
Wheeler was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralFrierson,with whom Mr.
S. Milton Simpson was on the brief, for the United States:
There was excess confinement of 3 hours and 5 minutes.

The claim is that there should be deducted from the

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
512.

513

Argument for the United States.

actual time 3 hours and 20 minutes of unavoidable delay,
leaving the carrier 15 minutes to the good. The fact
that there has been an unavoidable delay does not afford
exemption if it appears that notwithstanding such delay
the carrier could, by proper foresight and diligence, have
unloaded within the required time. Atchison, Topeka e
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S. 336; Newport
News &c. v. United States, 61 Fed. Rep. 480, 490.
The full 3 hours and 20 minutes cannot be counted as
excusable delay because, first, at least an hour was inexcusably wasted, and second, at least 28 minutes of it consisted of loss from an accident of such common occurrence
that it should have been anticipated. On the carrier's
own theory, then, it has failed to account for from 3V4 to
11I hours. There was evidence warranting the conclusion that, after the accident happened, the carrier needlessly consumed from an hour to 1Y2 hours in making the
rest of the trip. Under the circumstances, the confinement of the cattle for so long a time manifested that disregard of the law or indifference to its requirements which
amounts to wilfulness within the meaning of the statute.
This case, 234 Fed. Rep. 268, and cases cited; Spurr v.
United States, 174 U. S. 728; Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56.
The exceptions are general and go to a portion of the
charge which contains propositions of unquestioned correctness. They, therefore, cannot be considered. Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 Wall. 132, and other cases. But the
portion excepted to is not erroneous.
The carrier was under the double duty to exercise such
foresight in laying out and making its runs that, taking
into consideration ordinary delays, it could reasonably
expect to comply with the law and, after the occurrence
of an unexpected delay, to use diligence to minimize the
consequences of such delay. After the accident at Proviso, this carrier deliberately wasted at least an hour.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

This itself is sufficient to warrant the verdict. In addition,
the fair inference from such evidence as the carrier submitted was that 2 hours and 57 minutes actual running
or, including 28 minutes resulting from such an accident
as is always to be anticipated, 3 hours and 25 minutes,
was an unreasonable time to be consumed in running 16
miles and showed a gross want of diligence. But if this
inference was not warranted, and even if it appeared that
there were conditions on account of which this much
time was ordinarily required, the plight of the carrier
would be no better. It would still be guilty of wasting
an hour at Proviso. And it would be in the position of
having exercised such poor foresight in running its train
to Proviso as to leave only 3 hours and 12 minutes for a
run which would, without even an ordinary accident,
require 2 hours and 57 minutes, and which in the event
of a drawbar pulling out, a thing always to be anticipated
and which did occur, would require 3 hours and 25 minutes and result in a failure to comply with the statute.
It would thus stand convicted of a want of both foresight
and diligence.
MR.JusTicEiMcREYwoLws delivered the opinion of
the court.
Charging violation of the Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.
607, to prevent cruelty to animals while in transit, the
United States sued petitioner for the prescribed penalty
and recovered a judgment in the District Court, Northern
District of Illinois, which the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 234 Fed. Rep. 268.
The statute forbids an interstate railroad carrier from
confining animals in cars longer than thirty-six hours,
upon written request, without unloading them for rest,
water and feeding "unless prevented by storm or by other
accidental or unavoidable causes which can not be anticipated or avoided by the exercise of due diligence and

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
512.

515

Opinion of the Court.

foresight;" and subjects every such carrier "who knowingly and willfully fails to comply" therewith to a penalty.
Admitting continuous confinement for more than thirtysix hours petitioner defended upon the ground that it was
prevented from unloading within the required period by
exculpatory accidental and unavoidable causes.
It appeared: The animals were loaded at Ringsted,
Iowa, four hundred and thirty-eight miles from destination,--Union Stock Yards, Chicago-at six P. M. October
4th, and as part of a train the car containing them left
Clinton, Iowa, one hundred and thirty-eight miles from
Chicago, at six P. M. October 5th. The ordinary schedule
time between the latter points is nine hours, but without
increase of actual moving speed the run had been made in
about six. While the train was passing through Proviso,
sixteen miles from destination, at 2:48 A. M. October 6th,
a drawbar came out and derailed a car. A delay of two
hours and fifty-two minutes followed-not undue the
carrier contends, but unreasonably long the Government
maintains. Later, at Brighton Park an air hose burst
causing further delay of twenty-eight minutes. The car
reached the stock yards at 9:05 A. M. October 6th-thirtynine hours and five minutes after being loaded.
In its charge to the jury the trial court said:
ccYour inquiry has to do with the transportation of this
car of stock from the point of origin out in Iowa to destination, Union Stock Yards, and if, on the evidence in
this case, you conclude that the Railway Company, by
the exercise of due diligence, would have gotten and could
have gotten that car of stock from the point of origin to
Union Stock Yards inside of thirty-six hours, your verdict should be in favor of the United States and against
the defendant, even though you should be of the opinion
that these two particular things which have been made
the subject of most of the contention here were properly
handled by the Railway Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

"Now, in determining this question you take into consideration the distance, among other things, the distance
shown by the evidence from the point of origin to destination, what the evidence shows as to the period of time,
thirty-nine hours and five minutes consumed from point of
origin to destination, not merely from Clinton to Chicago,
the whole movement is here for your consideration and to
be considered by you in determining whether or not due
diligence has been shown by the carrier.
"Now what is due diligence? Due diligence, as that
term is used in this statute means the exercise of foresight
bringing to bear on the situation in hand, the transaction
in hand, the human intelligence of an average man employed in such business and exercised by a man who has
been experienced in railroad business, trained in railroad
business so that he knows what should be done in the
matter of handling railroads, operating railroads, moving
cars,-not merely the movement of an engine, the handling of the throttle by an engineer, not merely the handling of the conductor's work, the brakeman's work or
the division superintendent's work, but the whole thing
involved in the transaction of operation of the railroad
in so far as the movement of this train is concerned, and
whatever ingenuity, that is to say whatever human intelligence could devise and put in operation, having in mind
the practical operation of a railroad, and having in mind
the purpose which the law has, to get stock to market
within the time mentioned, having in mind the movement
of trains, the keeping of a railroad open, what human ingenuity could devise, in so far as human intelligence goes,
having the benefit of experience, in the way of safe guards
and in the way of provision to get stock from origin to
destination within the period of this statutory limit, the
railroad company has to do. Of course it is not the law
that a railway company may lay out a slow schedule over
a long distance and then if just before they get in to desti-

CHICAGO & N. W. RY.CO. v. UNITED STATES.
512.

517

Opinion of the Court.

nation something happens for which they were not prepared or equipped, merely because if that thing had not
happened they might have skinned in within the thirty-six
limit they are excused; that is not the law."
The statute must be construed with a view to carrying
its humanitarian purpose into effect and the exception in
favor of the carrier given proper latitude and enforced in
the light of practical railroad conditions. Nothing indicates the running schedule was unduly slow; and the jury
were improperly given to understand that, conceding
matters were properly handled when accidents occurred
at Proviso and Brighton Park, they might nevertheless
decide the railroad could have got the car to destination
within thirt-six hours if due diligence had been exercised
in laying out such schedule. The definition of "due diligence" in the charge was too exacting and misleading.
As applied to the facts due diligence did not require, as
the court declared, that "whatever ingenuity, that is to
say whatever human intelligence could devise and put in
operation, having in mind the practical operation of a
railroad, and having in mind the purpose which the law
has, to get stock to market within the time mentioned,
having in mind the movement of trains, the keeping of a
railroad open, what human ingenuity could devise, in so
far as human intelligence goes, having the benefit of experience, in the way of safe guards and in the way of
provision to get stock from origin to destination within
the period of this statutory limit, the railroad company
has to do."
We find nothing in the act indicating a purpose to interfere directly with the carrier's discretion in establishing
schedules for trains; the design was to fix a limit beyond
which animals must not be confined, whatever the schedule, except under the extraordinary circumstances stated.
In general, unloading can only take place at specially prepared places or final destination. If in the exercise of ordi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

nary care, prudence and foresight the carrier reasonably
expects that following the determined schedule the containing car will reach destination or some unloading place
within the prescribed time it properly may be put in
transit. Thereafter the duty is on the carrier to exercise
the diligence and foresight which prudent men, experienced
in such matters, would adopt to prevent accidents and
delays and to overcome the effect of any which may happen-with an honest purpose always to secure unloading
within the lawful period. If, notwithstanding all this,
unloading is actually prevented by storm or accident the
reasonable delay must be excused.
In the Hours of Service Act, 34 Stat. 1415-1416, there
is a proviso "that the provisions of this Act shall not apply in any case of casualty or unavoidable accident or the
act of God; nor where the delay was the result of a cause
not known to the carrier or its officer or agent in charge
of such employee at the time said employee left a terminal, and which could not have been foreseen.
Construing this, in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v. United States, 244 U. S. 336, 343, we said: "It was not
the intention of the proviso, as we read it, to relieve the
carrier from the exercise of diligence to comply with the
general provisions of the act, but only to relieve it from
accidents arising from unknown causes which necessarily
entailed overtime employment and service. United States
v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141. It is still the duty of the carrier
to do all reasonably within its power to limit the hours of
service in accordance with the requirements of the law."
This general principle should also be followed in construing and applying the provision of the statute here under
consideration.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

