OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

CUDAHY PACKING COMPANY v. STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 32. Argued April 26, 1917.-Decided April 15, 1918.
In so far as the property, tangible and intangible, constituting a freight
car line, is regularly and habitually used or employed in a State, it
is Within the taxing power of that State although chiefly devoted or
applied to interstate transportation, and may be taxed at its real
value as part of a going concern.
In determining whether a state tax is to be viewed as a tax on property
measured by earnings or a tax on earnings, the view of the state
court and legislature, though not conclusive, will not be rejected
by this court unless ill founded.
Under a law of Minnesota, part of a general system applied to railroads,
telephone lines, etc., a company owning freight cars which it furnished to railroads for a fixed compensation per mile of travel and
which were employed by the railroads within and without the State
in hauling both interstate and intrastate commerce, was taxed at
a stated per cent. of its gross earnings from the mileage within the
State, in lieu of other taxes on the property so engaged, the tax
being treated by the state court and legislature as a property tax,
and not being in excess of what would be legitimate as an ordinary
tax on such property, tangible and intangible, taken at its real value
as part of a going concern. Held, that the tax was a property tax,
not a tax on gross earnings burdening interstate commerce, and was
not distinguishable from the tax sustained in United States Express
Co. y. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335.
Held, further, that the tax was not to be deemed double or excessive
from the fact that the receipts of the railroads from shipments in
these cars, less the rental paid to the company, were made a factor
in valuing the property on which the railroads were taxed.
129 Minnesota, 30, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. MINNESOTA.
450.

451

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert E. Olds, with whom Mr. Frank B. Kellogg,
Mr. Cordenio A. Severance and Mr. Thomas Creigh were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lyndon A. Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, with whom Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, Assistant
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
Mi. JusTicE VAw DVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
A tax, for each of the years 1907 to 1912, inclusive, imposed under a law of Minnesota (Acts 1907, c. 250; 1909,
c. 473; 1911, c. 377) against the Cudahy Packing Company as a freight line company, and sustained by the
Supreme Court of the State (129 Minnesota, 30), is here
in question. Whether the tax constitutes an unconstitutional restraint or burden on interstate commerce is the
matter for decision.
The company is an Illinois corporation and operates
plants in Iowa, Missouri and Nebraska for slaughtering
live stock and converting the same into fresh meats and
other articles of commerce. It sells the products throughout the United States, maintains branch houses in several
States, including three in Minnesota, and owns a line of
refrigerator cars wherein the products are shipped to the
branch houses and places of consumption. Under a contractual arrangement it supplies these cars to the railroads for use in such transportation and receives therefor
a fixed compensation per mile of travel. In the territory
embracing Minnesota this compensation or rental is one
cent per mile whether the cars be loaded or empty. Usually the cars are moved to particular destinations with
loads of the company's products and are returned empty
to be loaded again, but where it is practicable to do so the
railroads are free to carry other freight in them on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

return trip. The company pays the usual tariff rates for
the transportation of its products, just as though the
railroads owned the cars, and also bears the expense of all
repairs save such as become necessary through negligent
handling by the railroads. The use made of the cars in
Minnesota consists in transporting the company's products (a) across the State from points without on one side
to points without on another, (b) from points without to
points within the State and the reverse, and (c) between
points within the State. Of their total mileage in the
State 90 per cent. is in interstate and 10 per cent. in intrastate transportation. The average number of cars
in the State per day ranges from 10 to 12.
The cash value of each car, as a separate article of tangible property, is from $700 to $900, and the intangible
property incident to their combined use under the contractual arrangement with the railroads is also, as the
record shows, of substantial value. The tax in question
is all that is assessed against the company in respect of
the cars or the intangible property. It has other tangible property in the State, not part of its car line, whereon
it pays the usual local taxes.
The receipts of the railroads from shipments carried
in these cars in Minnesota, less the compensation or
rental paid to the company, are added to the other gross
earnings of the railroads from business in the State and
the total is taken as the value for purposes of taxation
of the property which the railroads own or operate in
the State for railway purposes.
As construed and applied by the state court, the Minnesota law requires a freight line company, meaning a
company furnishing or leasing cars to railroads for freight
transportation, to report annually its gross earnings from
the operation of its car line within the State and to pay,
in lieu of other taxes on the property so employed, a tax
fixed at a stated per cent. of such earnings. That court

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. MINNESOTA.
450.

453

Opinion of the Court.

holds that this law is an exertion of the power of the State
to tax the property within its limits from which the earnings are derived and is intended to embody a practical
method of reaching and valuing that property, tangible,
and intangible, for taxing purposes.
In so far as the property constituting this car line is
regularly or habitually used or employed in Minnesota
it is within the taxing power of the State, although chiefly
devoted or applied to interstate transportation. Pullman's
Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Adams Express
Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; s. c., 166 U. S. 185; American Refrigerator Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70; Union RefrigeratorCo. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149. This is not questioned;
but it is insisted that the tax imposed is not a property
tax but one laid directly on the gross earnings. Of course,
if it is laid on the earnings as such, they being derived
largely from interstate commerce, it is an unconstitutional restraint or burden on such commerce and void.
Fargov. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia& Southern
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Galveston,
flarrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217.
On the other hand, if what is done is to reach the property
and not to tax the gross earnings, the latter being taken
merely as an index or measure of the value of the former,
it well may be that the objection urged against the tax
is untenable; for, as this court has said, "by whatever
name the tax or taxes may be called that are fixed by
reference to the value of the property, if they are not
imposed because of its use in interstate or foreign commerce, and if they amount to no more than would be legitimate as an ordinary tax upon the property, valued
with reference to the use in which it is employed, they
are not open to attack" as restraining or burdening such
commerce. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350, 367; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155
U. S. 688; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

U. S. 379, 387; Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, 499; Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, supra.
As before stated, the state court regards the tax as imposed in respect of the property rather than the earnings,
and the same view seems to be taken by the legislature,
for the Act of 1909 speaks of the tax as "a tax upon its
[the company's] property" and the Act of 1911 says "the
value of such property [that used within the State] for
purposes of taxation is to be determined" by reference
to the gross earnings from the mileage within the State.
True, this local view is not conclusive on this court, but
it cannot be rejected unless it can be said to be ill founded.
The question of the nature and effect of taxes more or
less like this has been repeatedly considered in this court.
In some instances its solution has been attended with
considerable difficulty, for while the controlling general
principles have long been well settled it has not been easy
to apply them to all the varying situations presented.
A short reference to two recent cases in which the earlier
decisions were reviewed will leave little to be said in
solving the question here. We refer to Meyer v. Wells,
Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298, and United States Express Co.
v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, both decided on the same
day. The former involved a tax in Oklahoma of a stated
per cent. of the gross receipts of an express company doing
both a local and an interstate business in that State. The
statute called the tax a "gross revenue tax" and declared
that it was to be "in addition to the taxes levied and collected upon an ad valorem basis upon the property and
assets" of the company. We held that the tax could not
be sustained as a tax on the gross earnings, they being
partly derived from interstate commerce, and also held
that it could not be regarded as a property tax, because,
as the statute disclosed, all the property of the company
in the State was to be reached and valued in another way.
The other case involved a tax in Minnesota of a desig-

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. MINNESOTA.
450.

455

Opinion of the Court.

nated per cent. of the gross earnings of an express company from business done in that State, the business being
partly local and partly interstate commerce. The statute
declared that the tax was to be in lieu of other taxes on the
company's property, and the state court held that it was
not in reality a tax on the gross earnings, but was a tax
on the property, the earnings being taken merely as a
measure of the value of the property for taxing purposes.
We accepted and gave effect to that holding, not as being
conclusive on us, but on the grounds that the property
from which the earnings were derived was not to be otherwise taxed, that the tax was part of a system intended to
reach the full value of the company's property in the
State as reflected by the gross earnings, and that the
amount of the tax did not appear to be in excess of
what would be legitimate as an ordinary tax on the
.property, valued with reference to its use as part of a
going concern. The case dealing with the Oklahoma
tax was distinguished by pointing out that that tax
could not be regarded as a property tax, because it was
to be in addition to another tax reaching the full value
of the company's property in the State.
The law imposing the present tax is closely patterned
after the one exacting the tax upheld in United States
Express Co. v. Minnesota, and contains the same declaration that the tax shall be in lieu of other taxes on
the property. The statutes differ only in minor details
and are both parts of a general system which the State
applies to railroads, telephone lines and the like. So,
unless this tax be otherwise distinguishable, it must,
under the decision in that case, be regarded as a property tax and not as laid on the gross earnings.
Because the usual tax rate, if applied to the cash value
of the cars taken separately, would result in an appreciably lower tax, it is insisted that the tax imposed is in
excess of what would be legitimate as an ordinary tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

on the property. But the contention proceeds on an
erroneous assumption. The State is not confined to
taxing the cars or to taxing them as separate articles.
It may tax the entire property, tangible and intangible,
constituting the car line as used within its limits, and
may tax the same at its real value as part of a going concern. The record makes it reasonably certain that the
property, valued with reference to its use and what it
earns, is worth considerably more than the cash value
of the cars taken separately-enough more to indicate
that the tax is not in excess of what would be legitimate
as an ordinary tax on the property taken at its real or
full value.
Because the receipts of the railroads from shipments
in these cars, less the rental paid to the company, are
made a factor in valuing for taxation the property on
which the railroads are taxed, it is contended that the
cars are taxed twice, once to the company and again to'
the railroads, and are excessively valued. The contention apparently assumes that the receipts from such shipments arise solely from the use of these cars, whereas they
arise in part from the use of the tracks, locomotives, fuel,
labor and the like provided by the railroads. Not improbably only a minor part is fairly attributable to the
use of cars. In any event, the company has an interest
in the car line which yields it a rental of one cent for each
mile of travel. This interest is taxable and the State
values it for that purpose by the rental received. In
valuing the property on which the railroads are taxed the
amount of the rental is deducted from their earnings.
This plainly discloses a purpose to avoid taxing the same
property twice or at more than its value, measured by
what it earns.
We think the tax is not distinguishable from that sustained in United States Express Co. v. Minnesota.
Judgment affirmed.

