OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

rule irrespective of any harm that it may do. We go one
step further and add that in view of the facts as to the
standard and this tea, the presence of the Prussian blue
affords no adequate ground for keeping the tea out.
The Secretary and the board must keep within the
statute, Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694, which goes to
their jurisdiction, see Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538, 544, and we see
no reason why the restriction should not be enforced by
injunction, as it was, for instance, in Bacon v. Rutland
R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 134. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 620. Sante Fe Paciflw R. R. Co. v. Lane, 244
U. S. 492. We are satisfied that no other remedy, if there
is any other, will secure the plaintiffs' rights.
Decree affrmed.
SAALFIELD, ADMINISTRATOR OF BROWN, SURVIVING CLAIMANT, ETC., v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 101.

Argued March 27, 1918.-Decided April 22, 1918.

Where a contract for the manufacture of guns for the United States
provided for a preliminary test subject to the decision of the Chief of
Ordnance and the Secretary of War, those officials were to decide,
not arbitrarily, but candidly and reasonably, whether the test had
been satisfied.
The findings of fact justify the conclusion that the test gun did not
meet the contract requirements; the report of the Chief of Ordnance
viewed as a whole in the light of the circumstances is consistent
with this conclusion; there is no ground for the charge that the Chief
of Ordnance and the Secretary of War, in annulling the contract,
acted in bad faith or under gross mistake, or for holding that the
Government by delays injurious to the contractors waived the right

to annul.
51 Ct. ClIms. 22, affirmed.

SAALFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
610.

. 611

Opinion of the Court.

T m case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. King and Mr. George H. Lamar for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralThompson for the United
States.
Mn. JusTicE Cnumm delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal to review a judgment by the Court of
Claims in favor of the Government, on a claim for damages growing out of a written contract dated May 18,
1898, for the manufacture of 50 wire-wound rapid fire
guns, 25 of 5-inch caliber and 25 of 6-inch caliber. No
guns having been delivered under the contract it was annulled by the Chief of Ordnance, with the approval of the
Secretary of War, in an order, notice of which was given to
the claimants on January 17, 1901. The appellant is the
administrator of the survivor of one of two claimants
to whom we shall refer in this opinion as "the claimants."
The essential parts of the contract to be considered
are as follows:
"The muzzle velocity shall not be less than 2,600 f. s.,
with a good smokeless powder that shall not give a pressure of over 40,000 pounds per square inch, using a projectile of 55 pounds weight for the 5-inch gun and 100
pounds weight for the 6-inch gun.

.

.

. The system

of rapid-fire breech mechanism employed will be either
the Brown or Dashiell, and must meet with the approval
of the Ordnance Department.

.

.

It must permit of

.

being easily and conveniently operated, and permit the
same man to traverse, elevate, sight and fire, without
moving the eye from the sight.

.

.

. The first gun

manufactured will be fired with full service charges of
powder, such as that used in testing other rapid-fire guns

612

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

of similar caliber, and with not more than the regular
service pressures for endurance, and the gun must be fired
for endurance 300 rounds or less as rapidly as practicable
at the proving grounds of the manufacturers, commencing
as soon as the gun is completed and continue firing as the
Department may require, 5 rounds to be fired with pressures of about 45,000 pounds, and shall not exceed 50,000
pounds, these to be included in but at close of the test,
and the acceptance of the remainder of the same caliber
will depend upon the type gun passing its test satisfactorily . ..
"Both gun and carriage must endure these tests in all
respects satisfactorily, both as to the strength of material
and facility of operation. . .
"It is stipulated and agreed that the party of the first
part shall deliver for test the first complete gun with mount,
etc., within three months from the date of execution of
this contract . ..
"If any doubts or disputes arise as to the meaning of
anything in this or any of the papers hereunto attached
and forming this contract, the matter shall be at once referred to the Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Armny, for deteruination. If, however, the party of the first part shall feel
aggrieved at any decision of the Chief of Ordnance, it
shall have the right to submit the same to the Secretary of War, and his decision shall be final."
"5th. If any default shall be made by the parties of the
first part in delivering all or any of the guns, etc., mentioned in this contract, of the quality and at the times and
places herein specified, then, in that case, the said party
of the second part may supply the deficiency by purchase
in open market or otherwise (the articles so procured to
be of the kind herein specified as near as practicable), and
the said parties of the first part shall be charged with the
expense resulting from such failure. Nothing contained
in this stipulation shall be construed to prevent the Chief

SAALFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
610.

Opinion of the Court.

of Ordnance, at his option, upon the happening of any
such default, from declaring this contract to be thereafter
null and void, without affecting the right of the United
States to recover for defaults which may have occurred."
It is apparent from these excerpts that the contract
contemplates the making and testing of a "type gun" of
each caliber; that the acceptance of additional guns was
dependent on this one "passing its test satisfactorily,"
and that the Chief of Ordnance and his superior officer,
the Secretary of War, were to decide, not arbitrarily, but
candidly and reasonably, whether the gun had satisfied
the required test. Ripley v. United States, 223 U. S.695,
701-2.
The 5-inch test gun was to have been completed within
three months from the date of the contract, but there were
delays, assented to by the Government, such that it was
not completed for ten months, so that the first test began
on March 8th of the following year (1899).
The finding by the Court of Claims as to what occurred
during this firing test, to which the type gun of 5-inch
caliber was subjected, is as follows:
"The test firing began with a pressure of 18,000 pounds
per square inch, which was raised on the second round to
21,050 pounds, and on the third round to 32,800 pounds,
with a muzzle velocity of 2,705 feet per second, and on the
fourth round to 35,750 pounds pressure, with a muzzle
velocity of 2,821 feet per second, on which round the carriage was injured, it not being strong enough to stand
such high muzzle velocities.
"The claimants then protested against the increases
made in the powder charge and insisted that any charge
that was sufficient to produce a muzzle velocity of 2,600
feet per second was all that was required by the contract, except for the five high-pressure rounds required at
the close of the test. This question was submitted to the
Chief of Ordnance before firing was continued and by him

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

decided in favor of the claimants. Thereafter the powder
charge was so adapted as to give this muzzle velocity of
2,600 feet per second as a general rule, except in the said
five high-pressure rounds at the close of the test, which
were fired with pressures of between 45,000 and 50,000
pounds per square inch. On one of these high-pressure
rounds, the 293rd round, the breech bushing and jacket of
the gun were cracked and the breech could not be opened by
hand.
"These breaks were repaired, but the mechanism repaired did not operate satisfactorily thereafter.
"During the course of the test the gun was star-gauged
by the Government inspector about every 50 rounds,
and these gaugings, at different times throughout the
test and at different points in the bore, indicated varying
and shifting changes, both increases and decreases, in the
diameters of different cross-sections of the bore, the gauging at several times and places indicatinga reduction of the
normal diameter of 5 inches down to 4.99 inches;, and as
a precaution against the danger of rupture or explosion of
the gun by a reduction of the bore sufficient to cause the
projectile to stick in the bore when the gun was fired an
iron plug of the diameter of the projectile was passed
through the bore about every 10 or 12 rounds, on one of
which occasions, about the 100th round, it stuck in the bore
so tight at one point as to require the efforts of three men to
force it through with a pole.
"At all times, with this exception, the plug passed
through freely.
"These reductions and variations in the diameter of the
bore of the gun were to some extent due to deposits of metal
on the walls of the bore by abrasion from the projectile in
its passage from the gun, but were principallydue to changes
in the cross section of the bore from a round to an elliptical
form, resulting from a shifting of the segments enveloping
the liner tube by the explosion of the charge, and also to an

SAALFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
610.

Opinion of the Court.

actual contraction of the bore by the compression of the
liner tube forming the walls of the bore by the elastic
tension of the wire with which the tube and its enveloping
segments were wound and bound together, which tension,
with the further increase therein resulting from the explosion of the charge upon reaction after the explosion,
exercised a compressing effect upon the liner tube.
"In large guns of ordinary types of construction there
is usually a slight contraction of bore during the first few
rounds of firing, after which the gun settles down to a new
condition, and thereafter the changes of bore diameter in a
normalgun are almost entirely in the way of increaseof diameter from erosion and abrasion.
"While the variations and reductions in the diameter
of the bore of the type gun indicated by the star-gauging
during the firing test did not quite reach a point of actual
danger to the gun from rupture or explosion by sticking of
the projectile in the bore in the process of firing they did
reach the limit of safety in this respect, and created a reasonable apprehension of danger in the minds of the Chief of
Ordnance and other offlials of the War Department connected
with the execution of the contractfor the guns, and caused the
Chief of Ordnance and the Secretary of War to refuse to pass
and accept the type gun unless it should satisfactorily pass a
further test of 100 additionalrounds, as proposed and recommended by the Chief of Ordnance in his indorsement of
November 3, 1899, hereinafter set forth. This apprehension was heightened by the fact of the new and comparatively untried type of construction of the gun, and by
its reversal of the usual behavior of guns of the ordinary
types of construction in the way of its continued contractions and changes of bore in the course of extended
use.")
These findings of fact, which, under the circumstances
of this case, must be accepted as final (173 U. S. 464, 470;
239 U. S. 221), if considered independently of the report

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

of the Chief of Ordnance, yet to be discussed, obviously
justify the conclusion that the test gun did not meet the
contract requirements.
The carriage of this new and experimental type gun
failed on the fourth round of firing, with a pressure well
within the contract maximum; the gun itself developed
such cracks in the breech bushing and jacket that the
breech could not be opened by hand and did not work
satisfactorily after repairs were made; and it showed unusual and abnormal changes in the bore which, while not
resulting in an explosion, created, in the mind of the
Chief of Ordnance, a reasonable apprehension of danger
in the use of the gun, and in his judgment required that
it be modified and that it be subjected to an additional
firing test, before it could be accepted as having satisfactorily passed the test prescribed by -the contract.
The report of the Chief of Ordnance to the Secretary
of War on the result of this contract test is dated November 3, 1899, and is as follows:.
"In the opinion of this office, while the type 5ineh
gun is not deemed as satisfactory a gun as is desirable
for service, yet its test has apparently met the contract requirements, and if certain modifications in the gun and its
carriage shall be made in their further manufacture to
remedy defects developed in the test, and 'in other respects be made to meet more fully the requirements of
the department, to which propositions the company willingly agrees, it is recommended that the 5-inch type gun"
and its mount be accepted, subject however, to the condition that, in view of the moderate pressure to which this
gun has been subjected, the department fire it 100 additional rounds, or less, as it may deem expedient, with
charges giving higher pressures and assimilating more
nearly the pressures that would be experienced in actual
service, and that in the further manufacture of the guns
they shall be modified, at the expense of the company,

SAALFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
610

Opinion of the Court.

so as to remedy any further defects that may be developed
in these additional firings."
The claimants' contention is rested largely upon this
clause in the above paragraph, viz: "Yet its test has
apparently met the contract requirements." And their
argument is that the test which the gun must meet was
prescribed by the contract: that the facts found, and
especially this clause, show that it proved equal to the
required test; that the subsequent annulling of the contract by the Chief of Ordnance, with the approval of
the Secretary of War "was not made and taken in good
faith, but under a mistake so gross as to justify an inference of bad faith;" and that, therefore, the claimants
are entitled to recover the damages prayed for.
If this expression, so much relied upon, stood as the
unqualified conclusion of the Chief of Ordnance and had
been approved by the Secretary of War, the interpretation claimed for it might be justified, but the contextual
setting of the clause shows clearly that in the opinion of
the Chief of Ordnance "defects (had) developed in the
test," which could be remedied only if certain modifications
were made in the manufacture of both the gun and carriage, and that his understanding when making the report was that the claimants concurred in this conclusion
and willingly agreed to conform to it.
The clause of the report so emphasized is the expression
of a soldier, not of a technical lawyer, and the paragraph
of the report in which it is found, taken altogether, conveys to us the conviction that the Chief of Ordnance, while
concluding that the gun was defective in design and construction, nevertheless believed that it contained elements
of invention which, modified and improved, would make
of it a weapon of value to his country and that he was
eager to lend official assistance to its further development,
which he believed the claimants were equally eager to
receive and profit by. In the interpretation most favor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

able to the claimants the report is an acceptance conditioned upon developments and improvement of the gun
which the Chief of Ordnance thought possible, but which
conditions, as we shall see, the claimants, perhaps because of less confidence in their invention, never attempted
to satisfy.
On January 31, 1900, this report of the Chief of Ordnance was approved by the Secretary of War, and a week
later the decision and recommendation thus approved
were communicated to the claimants.
But, instead of the coperation which the Chief of
Ordnance thought assured, the Government next heard
from the claimants through lawyers and then through
a letter from the claimants themselves, asking the Secretary of War to suspend further action until argument
could be heard, and stating that "they had not as yet
assented to any modification of the gun and carriage."
The Secretary of War replied to the lawyers that there
was no question before him open to argument, but what,
if any, reply was made to the letter of the claimants does
not appear.
However, long prior to this, on May 16, 1899, after the
test firing had been suspended and three months before
it was completed, it was suggested by the Government
to the claimants that they should furnish "the mathematical computations and engineering considerations upon
which their claims of strength of construction and other
qualities of their gun were based." No notice was taken
of this suggestion for almost a year, and not until after
claimants were officially notified of the approval by the
Secretary of War of the report of the Chief of Ordnance
of November 3, 1899. Thereafter, on February 17th,
1900, the claimants notified the Chief of Ordnance that
they had employed two expert mathematicians to work
out the various problems connected with the construction of their gun, and suggesting that they would like to

SAALFIELD v: UNITED STATES.
610.

Opinion of the Cour.

have an army "officer of practical experience with artillery" assigned to codperate with their selected experts
and that they would compensate him for the service. Two
days later the Government acceded to this and authorized
a major in the army to join in making the computations
as suggested by the claimants.
The finding of the Court of Claims does not show that
anything further was done until, on January 17, 1901,
almost three years after this three months' contract was
to have been completed, when, after the claimants had
permitted almost a year to pass without accepting the
suggestion of the Government that modifications should
be made in the gun and carriage to cure the defects which
the firing test had disclosed, the Chief of Ordnance, with
the approval of the Secretary of War, notified the claimants that, for failure to deliver an acceptable gun, their
contract had been declared null and void. Against this
conclusion the claimants protested and appealed to the
Secretary of War for a revocation of the annullment order, but after hearing the claimants and their lawyers
several times, the Secretary of War refused to revoke
this order.
A month after the revocation order, the experts, employed almost a year before by the claimants, rendered to
their employers a report on the technical problems connected with the construction of the gun, which the Government had called for almost two years before. 'This
report the Court of Claims finds was "upon the whole,
favorable to the style of construction of the gun; but defects of construction were pointed out and remedies
therefor suggested in the way of modifications in the construction."
This discussion of the findings of fact by the Court of
Claims leads us unhesitatingly to the conclusion that the
claim that the Secretary of War and the Chief of Ordnance acted in bad faith or under a gross mistake is wholly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

unfounded and gratuitous; that, on the contrary, they
dealt candidly, generously, even helpfully, with the claimants and that the annullment of the contract under
the circumstances was abundantly justified. The cause
of the misfortune, which the claimants undoubtedly
suffered, is not to be found in their treatment by the
officials of the War Department but in their own refusal, from whatever cause, to accept the encouraging suggestion of the Chief of Ordnance that the Department
was willing, by generous dealing and codperation, to assist
them in carrying forward their experimental gun to a
successful development.
The claims made in argument that by various delays
on its part the Government, in some indefinite way,
waived its right to annul the contract, and that this right
to annul was suspended until report should be made on
the technical problems involved, by the experts selected
by the claimants, it is true with the coiperation of the
Government, but almost a year before, cannot be seriously considered. In the matter of delays the claimants were as much at fault and more, than the Government, and the delay of the technical report for almost a
year was reasonable ground for assuming that no report
was likely to be made, or that if made it would not be
favorable to the acceptance of the gun, which last, as we
have seen, is shown by the finding of facts by the Court
of Claims, to have proved to be the case.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

