OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

the testimony adduced the verdict must be accepted,
and although no doubt there might be cases in which
this Court would pronounce for itself, irrespective of
testimony, whether a burden was imposed, we are not
prepared to say that in this instance the State has transcended its powers. The burden if any is indirect. Some
complaint is made of the form of the judgment, as purporting to be perpetual. But the word perpetual adds
nothing to a requirement that the office and shops should
be maintained in Palestine. The requirement is perpetual until the law is changed. When and how it may be
changed is not before us now. Other objections are
urged and other details are adverted to in the very lengthy
printed arguments, besides those with which we have
dealt, but we deem it unnecessary to go farther. Upon
the whole case we are of opinion that the judgment below should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. STATE OF MINNESOTA EX REL. VILLAGE OF
CLARA CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 185.

Submitted March 12, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

Railroad companies may be required, under the state police power, at
their own expense, to make streets and highways crossed by their
tracks reasonably safe and convenient for public use.
Upon this principle, where a village street with business houses on
both sides was intersected by a railroad right of way of which the
central portion only was occupied by roadbed and tracks and was
sufficiently planked for crossing purposes, heZd, that a requirement

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. CLARA CITY. 435
434.

Opinion of the Court.

(under Minnesota Laws,1913, c. 78, ยง 1) that a sidewalk be built to

extend the street sidewalk across the right of way on either side of
the planking, along one side of the street where people must fre.
quently cro&s, could not be regarded as an arbitrary or unreasonable
requirement depriving of due process or denying the equal protection

of the laws.
132 Minnesota, 474, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. B. C. Lindley, Mr. M. L. Countryman and Mr.
Thomas 1. Benton for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. C. A. Fosnes and Mr. Alfred K. Fosnes for defendant in error.
MR.JusricE, DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to compel the railroad companies to build a sidewalk on the south side of Bunde
Street in the village of Clara City, Minnesota, where
the right of way of the railroad companies crosses that
street. The right of way of the companies is of the width
of 300 feet at the place where Bunde Street crosses the
same. At or near the center of this right of way the
companies have constructed three railroad tracks. There
are business houses upon both sides of the right of way,
and it becomes necessary for people to cross the same
frequently.
The case was decided in the lower court in Minnesota
upon demurrer to the petition in mandamus, and the
record contains this statement:
"For the purpose of the demurrer it was admitted by
relator that that part of the street in question which is
occupied by the roadbed or tracks of the respondents
was and is properly, securely and sufficiently planked
the full width of the street, such planking extending

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the full length of the ties and between the tracks as in
that particular required by statute; that the sole object
and purpose sought to be attained in and by these proceedings is to compel the respondents to construct a
sidewalk on one side of the street as it is located across
the entire right of way, so that the sidewalk will connect
with the said planking in either direction, but not so as
to include in such construction the building of any sidewalk or crosswalk along that part of the street now occupied by said roadbed or tracks, which part is already
sufficiently and securely planked for crossing purposes."
The General Laws of Minnesota contain a provision
requiring the planking of railroad crossings where the
same cross a public street. Section 4256 of the General
Laws of Minnesota. By amendment of 1913 the following provision was added:
"And a suitable sidewalk shall be constructed by said
company to connect with and correspond to said walks
constructed and installed by the municipality or by
owners of abutting property, but cement or concrete
construction shall not be required in track space actually occupied by the railroad ties if some substantial and
suitable sidewalk material is used in lieu thereof." Laws
of Minnesota 1913, c. 78, ยง 1.
The lower court in Minnesota dismissed the petition,
which judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, and the railroad company was required to
construct the sidewalk at its own expense. 130 Minnesota, 480. The court held that the statute was a reasonable exercise of the police power of the State. The contention here made is that the statute as thus enforced
denies to the companies due process of law and the equal
protection of the law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
It is too well settled by former decisions of this court
to require extended discussion here that railroad com-

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. CLARA CITY. 437
434.

Opinion of the Court.

panies may be required by the States in the exercise of
the police power to make streets and highways crossed
by the tracks of such companies reasonably safe and
convenient for public use, and this at their own expense.
Such companies accept their franchises from the State
subject to their duties to conform to regulations, not of
an arbitrary nature, as to the opening and use of the
public streets for the purpose of promoting the public
safety and convenience. This principle was applied by
this court in Cincinnati, Indianapolis & Western Ry. Co.
v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336, wherein the railroad, because of the extension of a street through an embankment upon which the railroad was built, was required
to construct at its own expense a bridge across the street.
In Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, it
was held that a municipality of the State of Minnesota
might require a railroad company to repair a viaduct
constructed by the city after the opening of the railroad
notwithstanding a contract relieving the railroad from
making repairs thereon for a term of years. That the
police power of the State was a continuing one, and could
not be contracted away, and that uncompensated obedience to laws, passed in its exercise, did not contravene
the Federal Constitution. This case was followed with
approval in St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Ry. Co.
v. Minnesota, 214 U. S. 497. In Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430, this court
affirmed a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
requiring a railroad company to build at its own expense
a bridge required in order to permit a municipality in
that State to construct a canal connecting two lakes
within the limits of a public park. In the opinion in that
case previous decisions in this court are collected and reviewed.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota in the instant case
held that the railroad companies might be required to

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

construct a sidewalk upon the right of way on both sides
of the planked crossing. In the opinion of the court the
sidewalk, leading to the crossing, tended to promote the
safety and convenience of the public, and, after discussing the well-established authority of the State to require
planking at crossings, as to the additional requirement
to build the connecting sidewalk, said:
"There can be no controlling difference between the
requirement of sidewalk and of planking. Planking is,
to be sure, more to prevent persons in vehicles from injury, or the vehicles or teams from damage, by being
stalled on the crossing. But, where a crossing is much
traveled, safety, to say nothing of convenience, may
require a separate space, like a sidewalk, reserved for
pedestrians. There is a peculiar peril to travelers on
foot, where many vehicles pass and the attention of the
drivers is diverted to looking out for trains liable to use
the crossing. Again, unless a well-defined walk be provided, there is danger of pedestrians crossing the tracks at
places unexpected to those in charge of trains or cars, not
to mention the inconvenience where mud and impassable
conditions compel those on foot to deviate from the strect
proper.
"It is said defendant, if obligated to lay a sidewalk
across its right of way, might likewise be required to
construct sidewalks along such right of way where it
borders a highway or street. The sufficient answer is
that the statute does not call for anything of the kind.
"The contention is also that defendant has so much
larger right of way than it needs or occupies for its three
tracks that for the greater distance the sidewalk, as a
safety provision, is out of place. It is to be assumed that
the right of way is such only as is needed for and devoted
to railway purposes, and such as is rightfully exempt
from taxes and assessments because of the payment of the
gross earnings tax. Within its right of way defendant

BOSTON & MAINE RAILROAD v. PIPER.
434.

439

Syllabus.

may at any time place additional tracks, or change the
location of those it maintains, and, for that reason, it
also seems proper that the safety of the passage for the
traveler for the whole distance should be placed upon
the railroad company. The statute merely prescribes
that it shall maintain a sidewalk over its legitimate right
of way to correspond and connect with the walk maintained under the supervision of the municipality, so as
to afford the pedestrians a reasonably safe and convenient crossing."
This court considers a case of this nature in the light
of the principle that the State is primarily the judge of
regulations required in the interest of the public safety
and welfare. Such statutes may only be declared unconstitutional where they are arbitrary or unreasonable
attempts to exercise authority vested in the State in the
public interest. We are not prepared to say that this
statute is of that character, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is

Affirmed.

BOSTON & MAINE RAILROAD v. PIPER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERIONT.

No. 208. Submitted March 14, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
A stipulation in the Uniform Live Stock Contract, filed by the carrier
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, limiting the carrier's
liability for unusual delay and detention caused by its own negligence
to the amount actually expended by the shipper in the purchase of
food and water for the stock while so detained, is illegal, and is not
binding on a shipper who executed the contract and shipped under
it for the corresponding reduced tariff rate.
Such a stipulation contravenes the principle that the carrier may not

