SPRING VALLEY WATER CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
88.

391

Syllabus.

General and, second, beyond all possible question to the
judgments of the courts below. It follows, therefore,
that the prosecution of the writ of error from this court
constituted a plain abuse by the Auditor of his administrative discretion. In an ordinary case the situation
would be one not only justifying but making it our duty
to direct the enforcement of Rule 23 as to damages. As,
however, the judgment is not one for money but relates
solely to the obligation to perform a manifest public duty,
and plain as may have been the abuse of discretion committed, we are fain to believe it involved no intentional disregard of official duty, we pass that subject by and our
order will be
Judgment affirmed.

SPRING VALLEY WATER COMPANY v. CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Argued March 19, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

Money placed in a bank as special deposits, pursuant to orders of the
District Court and stipulation of parties, to await the outcome of
litigation, held subject to assessment for taxation as money in litigation in possession of a "receiver," under Political Code of California,

ยง 3647.
Such special deposits are sufficiently described for purposes of assessment by the numbers of the several cases in which they were made
and by designating the court and the parties; and the facts that the
deposit in each case was not assessed separately, and that the description included also a case in which there was no deposit, do not vitiate the assessment.

225 Fed. Rep. 728, affnrmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

IN 1908 the Spring Valley Water Company, the appellant, commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California a suit against the
City and County of San Francisco to enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance fixing the water rates for that year.
A preliminary injunction was granted upon the condition that all sums collected by the Water Company
from its customers in excess of the ordinance rates should
be deposited in a bank agreed upon by the parties or
designated by the court to await the outcome of the litigation. The sums so collected, it was provided, should
be received by the bank as a special deposit subject to
the order of the court and should be paid out on checks
drawn by a special master and countersigned by a judge
of the court. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties
the court subsequently designated the Mercantile Trust
Company of San Francisco as the depository for the impounded moneys and ordered that the account should
be entitled "Spring Valley Water Company-Special
Account" and should bear two per cent. interest per
annum. Each year following down to 1913 the Water
Company brought a similar suit to enjoin the ordinance
fixing water rates for the respective year. In four of
these five cases a preliminary injunction was granted
upon the same condition expressed in the preliminary
injunction awarded in the 1908 suit. In the fifth, although a preliminary injunction was granted, no order
was made concerning the impounding of sums collected
in excess of the ordinance rates, but the parties stipulated
that the moneys collected during the year embraced by
that suit should also be deposited in the bank designated
by the court to await the final outcome of the case. Pursuant to these orders and stipulations the Water Company made deposits of the moneys in the Mercantile
Trust Company of San Francisco and from time to time
the court, to safeguard the funds, ordered portions of it

SPRING VALLEY WATER CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
391.

393

Statement of the Case.

transferred from that bank to six other banks in San
Francisco. The money thus transferred and deposited
in the six banks was placed in special accounts subject to the order of the court, to be withdrawn only by
check signed by the special master and countersigned
by a judge of the court.
The moneys on deposit in each of the seven banks on
the first Mondays in March, 1913 and 1914, were by
the local officer assessed for taxation for those years. In
each assessment the bank was described as "Receiver
of Impounded Moneys" and "Receiver or Depository
under Order of Court of the Impounded Moneys in
Equity Suits numbered 14,275, 14,735, 14,892, 15,131,
15,569, 15,344 and 26, District Court of the United
States, wherein the Spring Valley Water Company is
plaintiff and City and County of San Francisco et al.,
defendants." With the exception of No. 14,275 (which
was a suit begun in 1907 to enjoin the water rates of that
year and in which the court made no order concerning
the impounding of funds and no deposits were made by
the Water Company) the suits referred to are those
which we have previously mentioned. On application
of the tax collector of the City and County of San Francisco the District Court of the United States after notice and a hearing directed the payment of the taxes. As
there were two assessments against each of the seven
banks, the court issued fourteen orders and to reverse
the decrees of the court below affirming the action of
the trial court fourteen appeals are prosecuted. (225
Fed. Rep. 728.) While the order under review on this
record concerned the assessment of moneys in the possession of the Mercantile Trust Company of San Francisco in March, 1913, and directed the payment of taxes
in the sum of $8,479.89, there is a stipulation that the
appeals in the other thirteen cases (Nos. 212 to 224) are
to be determined by the decision in this.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Mr. Ira A. Campbell, with whom Mr. Edward J. McCutchen and Mr. A. Crawford Greene were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. Robert M. Searls, with whom Mr. George Lull and
Mr. J. F. English were on the brief, for appellees.
MR.C.HmF JUSTICE WH IE,

after making the forego-

ing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole ground urged for reversal is the invalidity of
the assessment (a) because it was not authorized by
any statute of the State and (b) because it did not contain a sufficient description of the property assessed, and
we come to consider these objections under two headings.
(a) That the assessment was authorized by the following section of the Political Code of California we think
is clear.
"Section 3647. Property and money in litigation.
Money and property in litigation in possession of a county
treasurer, of a court, county clerk, or receiver, must be
assessed to such treasurer, clerk, or receiver and the taxes
be paid thereon under the direction of the court."
Without following and directly answering the argument advanced to sustain the contrary view, we content
ourselves with a summary statement of the reasons for
our conclusion. Words cannot make clearer than does
the language of the text the purpose of the section to
tax property or money in litigation in the hands of a
court. Indeed the Supreme Court of California has so
construed the section. Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City
Water Co., 137 California, 699; Bessolo v. City of Los
Angeles, 169 Pac. Rep. 372. It is further manifest that
the taxation of the money deposited in the injunction suits
was what was sought to be accomplished by the assessment
which was made. The money assessed was in litigation,

SPRING VALLEY WATER CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
331.

395

Opinion of the Court.

was in the custody of the court and was by its direction
placed in the bank in a special account subject to the
control of the court. Moreover the assessment to the
bank which held the money for the court was a direct
compliance with the terms of the section, the description
"receiver" being employed in the statute not in a technical sense but as embracing any person acting as agent
or depository of funds for a court. To give to the word
the narrower meaning -contended for would defeat the
obvious and adjudged purpose of the statute.
(b) It is contended that the assessment was invalid for
want of sufficient description of the property assessed,
first, because the assessment purported to assess moneys
impounded in the 1907 injunction suit, No. 14,275,
when as we have seen no money was in fact deposited
in that suit, and second, because the assessment did not
separately assess the moneys impounded in each of the
six suits but assessed as a unit all the moneys impounded
in all the suits.
As to the first, it is apparent that the inclusion of
the 1907 suit, No. 14,275, could not operate to assess
moneys which had no existence and hence the reference
to that suit is wholly negligible. As to the second, the
assessment referred to the cases by number and designated the court in which they were pending as well as
the parties. The court in exercising its jurisdiction over
the moneys had spe~iflcally directed their deposit to
special accounts in each suit separately, thus enabling
it at the termination of the litigation to distribute the
funds after apportioning the sum of the tax chargeable
to each. It is thus clear that not only was there no want
of definiteness in the description of the property but no
possible detriment to the Water Company could in any
event arise because of the method of assessment which
was followed.

Affirmed.

