BILBY v. STEWART.
Opinion of the Court.

253.

under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The trial
court refused defendant's motion for a non-suit; and the
jury rendered a verdict for plaintiff. Judgment thereon
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State (170 N.
Car. 170) on the ground that there was no evidence of
negligence; and the case came here on writ of error.
It is clear that the defendant did not fail in any duty
which it owed to the plaintiff.
Judgment affirmed.

BILBY ET AL. v. STEWART ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 160.

Submitted January 25, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

The court may not review a judgment, of a state supreme court resting
on a non-federal ground adequate to support it.
Where the probate of the will of a full-blood Creek Indian was refused
solely on the non-federal ground of mental incapacity, questions
sought to be raised under acts of Congress, concerning the execution
of the will, its legal effect, and the necessity for probate, held immaterial.
An attempt to raise federal questions through an application to file a
second petition for rehearing in the state court comes too late.
Writ of error to review 153 Pac. Rep. 1173, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lewis C. Lawson for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George C. Cramp, Mr. Jasper L. Skinner-and Mr.
J. Ross Bailey for defendants in error.
MR. JusTiCE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, which affirmed on appeal the judgment of the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

triet Court declining to probate an alleged will of Bruner,
a full-blood Creek Indian, who, in the year 1912, died in
that State possessed of his allotment, a bachelor without
surviving parent.
The Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, relating to the Five Civilized Tribes, by ยง19, prohibits members, for a period of twenty-five years, from alienating
lands allotted to them; but by ยง 23, as amended by ยง8
of the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, 315, provides that, "Every person of lawful age and sound mind
may by last will and testament devise and bequeath all
of his estate, real and personal, and all interest therein:
Provided, That no will of a full-blood Indian devising real
estate shall be valid, if such last will and testament disinherits the parent, wife, spouse, or children of such fullblood Indian, unless acknowledged before and approved
by a judge of the United States court for the Indian Territory, or a United States commissioner, or a judge of a
county court of the State of Oklahoma."
Section 1 of the Acts of Oklahoma for 1909, c. 41,
provides:
"That no person who is prevented by law from alienating, conveying or encumbering real property while living shall be allowed to bequeath same by will."
Bilby, the main beneficiary named in the alleged will,
and Moffitt, the executor, had first petitioned for its probate in the county court, where the heirs contested on the
grounds of mental incapacity and undue influence and
also on the ground that Bruner was by law prohibited
from alienating or conveying his land. Probate was denied on the last ground; and the proponents appealed to
the District Court where, as provided by the state law,
it was tried de novo. That court, after an advisory verdict of a jury, denied probate solely on the ground of
mental incapacity; and the errors assigned in the Supreme
Court were substantially, that the judgment of the Dis-

BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
255.

Syllabus.

trict Court was against the evidence. 153 Pac. Rep.
1173. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the
lower court and a petition for rehearing was denied without a statement of reasons. No federal question had
been raised in the District Court, nor apparently up to
that time in the Supreme Court. But an application
was then made for leave to file a second petition for rehearing; and in it proponents set up, among others, the
claim that because Bruner was a full-blood Creek Indian
"the executioji of said will and the legal effect thereof
and the necessity or non-necessity of the probation of
said will is thereby involved in this cause and presents
federal questions." We need not, however, consider this
contention. For since the Supreme Court rested its judgment upon a non-federal ground adequate to support it,
the existence of a federal question is of no significance.
Cuyahoga River Power Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U.
S. 300. And, besides, the attempt to raise it comes too
late. St. Louis & San Franciso R. R. Co. v. Shepherd,
240 U. S. 240. The writ of error is
Dismissed.

BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 171.

Argued January 30, 31, 1918.--Decided March 4, 1918.

The Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, and the bonds given
under it, must be construed liberally for the protection of those who
furnish labor or materials in the prosecution of public work.
The act is not limited in application to labor and materials directly
incorporated into the public work. The amendment of February 24,
1905, c. 778, 33 Stat: 811, does not change it in this respect.

