OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

necessary operation and effect of its'provisions. The distinction between the two has been enforced from the beginning as vital to the perpetuation of our constitutional
system. Indeed, as correctly pointed out by the court
below, that principle as applied in adjudged cases is here
directly applicable and authoritatively controlling. New
York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Reymann Brewing Co. v.
Brister, 179 U. S. 445. In saying this we have not overlooked or failed to consider the many cases cited in the
argument at bar on the theory that they are to the contrary, when in fact they all rest upon the conclusion that
a direct burden on interstate commerce arose from statutes inherently void for want of power or if within the
power possessed were intrinsically repugnant to the commerce clause because of discriminations against interstate
commerce which they contained.
Affirmed.

BOSTON STORE OF CHICAGO v. AMERICAN
GRAPHOPHONE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 363. Argued January 16, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Certificates of the facts constituting the basis for questions propounded
to this court by the Circuit Court of Appeals should be prepared
with care and precision.
Where the bill in the District Court claimed protection for a pricefixing contract under the patent laws, and the want of merit in the
claim was not so conclusively settled by decision when the bill was
filed as to make the claim frivolous, the court had jurisdiction to
pass upon the case as made by the bill, that is, to determine whether
the suit arose under those laws.

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 9
8.

Argument for American Graphophone Co.

Where a patent owner delivers patented articles to a dealer by a transaction which, essentially considered, is a completed sale, stipulations
in the contract that the articles may not be resold at prices other
or lower than those fixed presently and from time to time by the
patent owner are v6id under the general law, and are not within the
monopoly conferred, or the remedies afforded, by the patent law.
Recent decisions of this court denying the right of patent owners, in
selling patented articles, to reserve control over the resale or use
were not rested upon any mere question of the form of notice attached
to the articles or the right to contract solely by reference to such
notice, but upon the fundamental ground that the control of the
patent owner over the articles in question ended with the passing
of title.
The courts must needs apply the patent law as they find it; if this
result in damage to the holders of patent rights, or if the law afford
insufficient protection to the inventor, the remedy must come from
Congress.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter Bachrach and Mr. Hamilton Moses, with
whom Mr. Joseph W. Moses was on the briefs, for Boston
Store of Chicago.
Mr. Elisha K. Camp, Mr. Daniel N. Kirby and Mr.
James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Gilbert H. Montague was
on the briefs, for American Graphophone.Co. et al.:
Whether or not a patentee, in dealing with his monopoly
right to sell, owns or retains title to the physical article,
is not conclusive as to his intent in disposing of his monopoly right to sell. He may conditionally dispose of the
right to sell, even though he had or has no title to the
article itself. Bement v. Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 88, 91,
92, 93. The principle decided in the Bement Case also

supports the proposition that a conditional sale of the

-

article, subject to a reserved part of the monopoly right
to sell, rests upon the patent laws. That case was not
modified by the later cases. Thus, Bobbs-Merrill Co. v.
Straus, 210 U. S. 339, was limited to an effort to enforce

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for American Graphophone Co.

246 U. S.

a price restriction by "mere notice." Likewise, Henry v.
Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1; Motion Picture Co. v. Universal
Film Co., 243 U. S. 502; and Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S.
1. Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S.
373, involved no question of patent law.
The fact that the gross money consideration was paid
is not conclusive, but is merely one of the evidential facts
to be considered, in determining the ultimate fact, the
intent. The future observance by the licensee or purchaser, of the restrictions on resale expressed in the agreement, was of far greater value to the patentee than the
money consideration. The mere fact that there is a contract between the patentee and his grantee does not force
the conclusion that his right and remedy rest solely upon
contract, and not at all upon the patent law, if the subject-matter of the contract consists in part of a monopoly
right which is also the subject-matter of the suit.
The contract was not violative of the Sherman Act or
contrary to public policy. Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park
& Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Co. v. Cream of Wheat Co., 224 Fed. Rep. 566, 568; United

States v. Quaker Oats Co., 232 Fed. Rep. 499, 502; Phillips
v. Iola Portland Cement Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 593; Ford
Motor Co. v. Benjamin E. Boone, Inc., 244 Fed. Rep. 335;
Grogan v. Chaffee, 156 California, 611; Ghirardelli v.
Hunsicker, 164 California, 355; Fisher Flouring Mills v.
Swanson, 76 Washington, 649; United States v. Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 271, 281-283; Park &
Sons Co. v. Hartman, 153 Fed. Rep. 24; Bobbs-Merrill Co.
v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1.
The rule against restraints upon alienation, so far at least
as concerns so-called resale price arrangements affecting
articles in interstate commerce, is merged in the comprehensive prohibitions of the Sherman Act. Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 49-64; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 178-181. The rule

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPIONE CO. 11
8.

Argument for American Graphophone Co.

is against limitations and qualifications upon the property
interest, the title, of the purchaser and sub-purchasers of
the article; and, so far as concerns the contractual capacity
of the vendor, the rule does not operate except against
attempts by contract to control sub-purchasers as distinguished from purchasers; and even when thus limited
and qualified, the rule does not apply to certain articles
whose acquired, intangible attributes distinguish them
commercially from similar commodities in the same line
of commerce. This and other federal courts have held
that trading stamps and railroad tickets are'sound exceptions to the rule against restraints upon the alienation of
personal property. Park & Sons Co. v. Hartman, 153
Fed. Rep. 24, 31; Bitterman v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205, 222; Sperry & Hutchinson Co.
v. Mechanics' Clothing Co., 128 Fed. Rep. 800; Spetry
& Hutchinson Co. v. Weber & Co., 161 Fed. Rep. 219.
Neither the Sherman Act nor public policy is offended by
an arrangement in the nature of so-called resale price
maintenance in any particular case where there is an
absence of monopolistic features, and where preeminent
good will attaches to and is conveyed with the article,
and where the arrangement is limited to the requirements
and necessities of this good will, and to the manufacturer's
immediate vendee with whom the manufacturer is in
direct contractual relation.
Mr. James M. Beck, for American Graphophone Co. et
al., filed a separate argument on the question whether a
contract of sale, which imposes upon the vendor's immediate vendee a resale price, necessarily and under all circumstances, is invalid. All that was necessarily decided in Dr.
Miles Medical Co. v. Park& Sons Co., 220 U. S.373, was that
where an article of commerce was absolutely monopolized
by a given producer, and where therefore no eompetitive
conditions existed in that line of commerce to protect the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for American Graphophone Co.

246,U. S.

consumer, and where the producer, being thus an absolute
monopolist, imposed upon all distributors and retailers
an interlocking system of contracts, which made competition in prices an impossibility,--that such producer
could not, as against one who sustained no contractual
relation whatever to the producer, compel him to submit
to such price maintenance system. If the contract in a
given case is not clearly prejudicial to the public welfare,
then the presumptive right of the contracting parties "to
do as they will with their own" should be respected. The
erroneous idea that any restraint upon the alienation of
personal property was void at common law arose out of
a misconception of a passage from Coke on Littleton,
ยง 360. Coke, in the context of this very passage, however,
and Littleton, in the section of his Tenures, on which it is
based, both stated that the rule referred only to total
restraints upon every mode of alienation, and did not
include restraints that were not total, or that left free
some right of alienation-lile the conditions of the agreement certified in the present case, for instance.
The decision of Mitchell v. Reynolds, 1 P. Wins. 181
(1711), and all subsequent cases, simply recognized the
common law, and the only change of doctrine was the
growing recognition by the courts that all restraints
upon alienation, growing out of contract, should be recognized as within the fair rights of the contracting
parties, unless such restraints were clearly prejudicial
to the public welfare. Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U. S. 106, 179.
As the legal test of a contract is the public welfare, it
inevitably follows that the judicial declaration of public
policy must conform to changing economic conditions.
Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 406;
Tuttle v. Buck, 107 Minnesota, 145; Diamond Match Co.
v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473.

BOSI ON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 13
8.

Argument for American Graphophone Co.

Applying these considerations to the precise question
now under consideration, it is obvious that when a vendor
sells a commodity of commerce to a vendee, upon condition
that he shall not resell the article at less than a minimum
price, no general or absolute restraint of alienation exists.
Unless it is plain that such a contract is prejudicial to the
public welfare, it must be sustained as within the constitutional rights of both vendor and vendee. In determining
this question, this court must recognize that there is a
wide variety of circumstances under which such restrictions are imposed. The article may be a necessity of life,
or, as in the case at bar, a mere luxury. It may be sold
under competitive conditions or, as in the Miles Medical
Cae,undei non-competitive conditions. To prevent misconstruction, we do not concede that public policy should
solely regard the interests of the consumer. Nevertheless
the consumer, especially when necessaries of life are involved, must be a matter of first and chief consideration.
Public policy, however, must necessarily take into account
the retailer, the distributor and especially the producer,
for if the producer cannot economically produce, the consumer must suffer a total deprivation of the product.
Where competitive conditions exist (as here), the inevitable working of economic laws protects the consumer
not only in giving him the opportunity, if he thinks the
resale price unfair, to purchase a competing product, but
also because the existence of competitive conditions
normally affects the reasonableness of the resale price.
No one questions the right of the -producer to establish his
own depots for the marketing of his products, and in that
event to charge the consumer what price he pleases. If
he have not sufficient capital to establish his own marketing depots, he can at least consign his goods to his own
agents with a similar result. It is well known that either
the chain store or the consignment plan is far more expensive than the distribution of a product through dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for American Graphophone Co.

246 U. S.

tributors and retailers. It inevitably follows that if the
public policy of the nation, as declared by statute or judicial decision, should unreasonably interfere with the right
of contract in the matter of resale prices, the strongest
producers will, as in the case of the Standard Oil and other
great concerns, be driven to market their own products.
The result will be that the consumer will not only pay as
much but, other things being equal, he will pay more for
his product, because upon him the burden of increased
expenses generally falls. Thus the small producers may
be driven out of business and only the large producers remain; and this inevitably will tend towards partial monopolization. Even if competition in prices is the only element to be considered, the reasonableness even from the
standpoint of the consumer of resale prices must depend
upon the existence or nonexistence of competitive conditions, and this in itself shows the danger of holding too
broadly and rigidly that all such contracts are void. Under modern commercial methods, where the manufacturer
of a commodity, not a necessary of life, must often create
the market for his wares, not only for himself but for his
distributors and retailers, it is obviously impossible for
the manufacturer to sell his goods, and after taking his
price give no further attention to them. The immense
and continuing service in developing and maintaining the
-value of the product in the present case is no part of any
contract of sale between the manufacturer and his immediate vendee. It is a gratuitous service, so far as any contractual obligation is concerned. The manufacturer could
withhold .it, and if he did, his business, and that of his
distributors and retailers, would sooner or later dwindle.
It does not follow that the public necessarily pays a larger
price. The more phonographs and recQrds sold, the less
the overcharge and the greater the ability of the manufacturer to develop the business. We simply maintain that
when a manufacturer has created the demand for an

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 15
8.

Argument for American Graphophone Co.

article, and at great expense is aiding his vendee in finding
a market, it is not unreasonable, but is consonant with the
soundest business methods for him, as the owner of the
article, to provide that his immediate vendee, who might
otherwise be unable to sell the article, shall not, by cutting
prices, make it impossible for the manufacturer to extend
him that aid. McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245.
There is another and very important consideration.
In the great centers of population, department stores,
chain stores, and mail order houses have come into existence, unknown in Coke's time. The department store to
attract custom often sells a standardized product at less
than cost in order to gain a profit by the probable purchase
of other articles at a large profit. No trade method is
more reprehensible or more restrictive of honest business.
Sooner or later the department store to a very substantial
degree restrains trade by destroying its competitors, and,
with the elimination of many competitors, the demand for
the manufacturer's product quickly dwindles, and with
a lessened demand, his power to expand commerce by increasing the demand for his products is necessarily destroyed. In this connection the court should apply the
doctrine of the so-called "unfair trade" cases, i. e., cases
involving fraudulent or unfair efforts to violate commonlaw trade-names as distinguished from technical trademarks. It should recognize the existence of a twilight
zone between the policy of unlimited price restriction
through mere notice and the policy of a partial price
restriction through the right of contract, not by creating
a new law but by recognizing the fundamental liberty to
make a reasonable contract and the rule of common law,
which only forbade a complete restraint on alienation.
That agreements in respect of so-called resale price maintenance should be sustained unless affirmatively shown
to be in derogation of public policy has been held in other
jurisdictions. Among many cases can be cited Grogan v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Chaffee, 156 California, 611; Ghirardefliv. Hunsicker, 164
California, 355; Commonwealth v. Grinstead,111 Kentucky,
203; Weiboldt v. Standard Fashion Co., 80 Ill. App. 67;
Garst v. Harris, 177 Massachusetts, 72; Garst v. Hall &
Lyon Co., 179 Massachusetts, 588; Garst v. Charles, 187
Massachusetts, 144; Rackemann v. River Bank Improvement Co., 167 Massachusetts, 1; Clark v. Frank, 17 Mo.
App. 602; Walsh v. Dwight, 58 N. Y. Supp. 91; Fisher
FlouringMills Co. v. Swanson, 76 Washington, 649. The
English courts have reached the same conclusion. Elliman
Sons & Co. v. CarringtonSons, Ltd. (1901), 2 Ch. Div. 275;
National Phonograph Co., Ltd., v. Edison-Bell &c. Phonograph Co., Ltd. (1908), 1 Ch. Div. 335.
Public policy requires this liberty of contract. Printing
Company v. Sampson, 19 Eq. Cas., L. R. 4621
Mr. J. Edgar Bull, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of Thomas A. Edison, Inc., as amicus curce.
MR. CHIEF JvsTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The court below before whom this case is pending, desiring instruction to the end that the duty of deciding the
cause may be performed, has certified certain facts and
propounded questions for solution arising therefrom.
The certificate as to some matters of procedure is deficient in specification and looked at from the point of view
of the questions which it asks is somewhat wanting in
precision. As, however, the matters not specified are
not in dispute and the want of precision referred to is not
so fundamental as to mislead or confuse, we are of opinion
the duty rests upon us to answer the questions and we
come to discharge it, making the statements, however,
which we have, made as an admonition concerning the
duty not to be negligent and ambiguous but to be careful

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAHOPHONE CO. 17
8.

Opinion of the Court.

and precise in preparing certificates as the basis for questions propounded to obtain our instruction.
Without in any degree changing, we re-arrange and
somewhat condense the case as stated in the certificate.
The American Graphophone Company, a West Virginia
corporation, as assignee of certain letters patent of theUnited States, was the sole manufacturer of Columbia
graphophones, grafonolas, records and blanks; and the
Columbia Graphophone Company, also a West Virginia
corporation, was the general agent of the American Company for the purpose of marketing the devices above
stated.
"The American Company, acting through its agent,
the Columbia Company, employs in the marketing of its
phonographic records and its other products a system of
price maintenance, by which system it has been its uniform practice to cause its agent, the Columbia Company,
to enter into . . . contracts . . . in the name
of the Columbia Company, with dealers in'phonographic
records, located in the United States and its territorial
possessions, to whom the American Company delivers its
product, through the Columbia Company, by which it
is provided, in part, that in consideration of the prices at
which prescribed quantities of the various said products
of the American Company are agreed to be delivered .to
such dealer, the dealer, in turn, obligates himself or itself
in selling such products to adhere strictly to and to be
bound by and not to depart from the official list prices
promulgated from time to time by the Columbia Company
for said products, and further expressly covenants not in
any way to dispose of any such products at less than such
list prices. The American Company fixes and prescribes
the prices of its said products, and said contracts when
entered into cover all such products of the American Company which may thereafter from time to time be acquired
by such dealers from the Columbia Company, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

any new express price restriction contract being entered
into at the time when each order for goods subsequent to
the entering into of said contract is placed or filled by said
dealers.
"In pursuance of said price maintenance system the
Columbia Company, acting under said instructions and
as the agent of the American Company, entered into [such]
contracts with over five thousand dealers in phonographic
records located in the United States and its territorial

possessions."
The Boston Store, an Illinois corporation established
at Chicago, dealt with the American Company through
its agent, the Columbia Company, conformably to the
system of business which was carried out as above stated.
The contract evidencing these dealings, which was typical of those by which the business system was carried on,
was entered into in October, 1912, and contained the following clauses:
"No

JOBBING PRIVILEGES EXTENDED UNDER THIS

CONTRACT.

"Notice to Purchasersof 'Columbia' Graphophones,
(-rafonalos, Records, and Blanks.
"All 'Columbia' Graphophones, Grafonolas, Records
and blanks are manufactured by the American Graphophone Company under certain patents and licensed and
sold through its sole sales agent the Columbia Phonograph
Company (General), subject to conditions and restrictions as to the persons to whom and the prices at which
they may be resold by any person into whose hands they
come. Any violation of such conditions or restrictions
make [s] the seller or user liable as an infringer of said
patents.
"After reading the foregoing notice and in consideration of current dealers' discounts given to me/us by the
Columbia Phonograph Company (General) I/we lIerebyk

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 19
8.

Opinion of the Court.

Agree to take any Columbia product received by me/us
from said company, either directly or through any inter-'
mediary, under the conditions and restrictions referred
to in said notice and to adhere strictly and be bound by
the official list prices established from time to time by
said Company and that I/we will neither give away, sell,
offer for sale, nor in any way dispose of such goods, either
directly or through any intermediary, at less than such
list prices, nor induce the sale of such goods by giving
away or reducing the price of other goods, nor sell or
otherwise dispose of any of said goods, directly or indirectly, outside of the United States, and I/we understand that a breach of this agreement will amount to an
infringement of said patents and subject me/us to a suit
and damages therefor. I/We admit the validity of all
patents under which said product is manufactured and
hereby covenant and agree not to question or contest the
same in any manner whatsoever. I/We further understand and agree that this license extends the right to market said Columbia product from the below mentioned address only, and that a separate contract is required to
market said product from a branch store or stores, or
through an agent or agencies at any other point.
"I/We acknowledge the receipt of a duplicate of the
foregoing notice and contract and that no representations
or guarantees have been made by the salesman on behalf
of said Company which are not herein expressed. I/We
also acknowledge receipt of the official list prices on all
Columbia product [s] in force at the date hereof."
This contract contained a note specifying large rates
of discount from the list prices for purchases made under
its terms, and contained a reference to other lists of net
prices covering particular transactions and to the "current Columbia catalogues for list prices on machines, records and supplies."
Under this contract at the time and also subsequent to

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court

246 U. S.

its making the Columbia Company delivered to the Boston Store at Chicago a number of graphophones and appliances made by the American Company at the sums
fixed in the contract as above stated. This suit arose
from a disregard by the Boston Store of the rule as to
maintenance of price fixed in its contract, that is, from
selling the articles at a less price than that which the contract stipulated should be maintained, and the bill was
filed against the Boston Store by the American and Columbia Companies to enjoin the alleged violations of the
contract. While the certificate is silent as to the averments of the bill, in the argument it is stated and not disputed that it was based on a right to make the contract
for the maintenance of prices in and by virtue of the patent laws of the United States and the resulting right
under such laws to enforce the agreement as to price
maintenance as part of the remedy given by the patent
law to protect the patent rights of the American Company. The court enjoined the Boston Store as prayed
from disregarding the terms of the contract as to price
maintenance. (225 Fed. Rep. 785.) On appeal the court
below made the certificate previously stated and propounded four questions for our decision.
In a general sense the questions involve determining
whether the right to make the price maintenance stipulation in the contract stated and the right to enforce it
were secured by the patent law, and if not, whether it
was valid under the general law, and was within the jurisdiction of the court on the one hand because of its authority to entertain suits under the patent law or its power
on the other to exercise jurisdiction because of diversity
of citizenship. We at once say, despite insistence in the
argument to the contrary, that we are of opinion that
there is no room for controversy concerning the subjects
to which the questions relate, as every doctrine which is
required to be decided in answering the questions is now

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 21
8.

Opinion of the Court.

no longer open to dispute, as the result of prior decisions
of this court, some of which were announced subsequent
to the making of the certificate in this case. Under this
situation our duty is limited to stating the results of the
previous cases, to briefly noticing the contentions made
in argument concerning the non-applicability of those results to the case in hand, and then to applying to the questions the indisputable.principles controlling the subjects
which the questions concern. As, however, the discharge
of these duties as to each and all of the questions will require a consideration of the cases to be applied, it must
result that if the questions be primarily considered separately, reiteration concerning the decided cases will inevitably take place. To avoid this redundancy of statement we therefore at once, as briefly as we may, state the
adjudged cases which are applicable, in order that in the
light afforded by one statement concerning them the questions may be considered and answered.
In Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339, it was
settled that the exclusive right to vend a copyrighted
book given by the copyright law did not give to the owner
of the copyright and book the right to sell for a price satisfactory to him and by a notice placed in the book fix a
price below which it should not be sold by all those who
might subsequently acquire it; and that, as such a right
was not secured by the copyright law or the remedies
which it afforded, a court of the United States had no
jurisdiction to afford relief on the contrary theory.
In Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S.
373, it was decided that under the general law the owner
of movables (in. that case, proprietary medicines compounded by a secret formula) could not sell the movables
and lawfully by contract fix a price at which the product
should afterwards be sold, because to do so would be at
one and the same time to sell and retain, to part with and
yet to hold, to project the will of the seller so as to cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

it to control the movable parted with when it was not
subject to his will because owned by another, and thus
to make the will of the seller unwarrantedly take the
place of the law of the land as to such movables. It was
decided that the power to make the limitation as to price
for the future could not be exerted consistently with the
prohibitions against restraint of trade and monopoly contained in the Anti-Trust Law.
In Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, it was held that the
owner of a patented machine (a rotary mimeograph) and
the patents which covered it had, in selling the same, a
right to contract with the purchaser not to use materials
essential for working it unless bought from the seller of
the machine, and to qualify the condition as a license of
the use; that this right included the further right, by notice on the machine of the contract, to affect a third person who might deal with the purchaser with knowledge
of the contract and notice so as to make him liable as a
contributory infringer if he dealt with the buyer in violation of the terms of the notice. It-was further decided
that the right to make suqh contract arose from the right
conferred by the patent law, and that jurisdiction to enforce it as against the contributory infringer existed under
that law. At the time this case was decided there was
one vacancy on the bench and one member of the court
was absent. There was division, four members concurring in the ruling which the court made and three dissenting.
Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, again involved the
right of a seller to impose a restraint on the price of future
sales. It arose on a certificate from the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia asking whether the right asserted was within the monopoly conferred by the patent
law and whether, therefore, the duty to enforce it under
that law obtained, and the power to give the remedy
sought as a means of preventing an infringement of the

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 23
8.

Opinion of the Court.

patent existed. Although pointing out that the restriction
on future price which the certificate stated' was indisputably void and unenforcible under the general law as the
result of the ruling in the Miles Medical Case, supra, it
was held that that ruling was not necessarily apposite,
because the certificate and the question presented restricted the case to determining whether the right to limit
the price existed because within the monopoly granted by
the patent law, and whether the relief asked was within
the remedy which that law afforded. Considering the
case in that limited aspect, it was decided: (a) That the
exclusive right to vend given by the patent law had the
same significance which had been affixed to that word in
the copyright law in the Bobbs-Merril Case, supra. (b)
That hence, when the holder of a patented article had
sold it, the article so sold passed out of the monopoly, and
the right to make future sales by one who bought it was
not embraced by the patent law, and, consequently, that
law could not be extended so as to perpetuate its control
beyond the limits to which by the operation 'of law it
reached. In other words, the decision was that a patentee
could not use and exhaust the right to sell, as to which a
monopoly was given him by the patent law, and yet by
conditions and stipulations continue that law in effect so
as to make it govern things which by his voluntary act
were beyond its scope. And (c) that, as a result, where
an article had been sold and passed beyond the monopoly
given by the patent law, remedies on the theory of infringement were not applicable to acts done which could
not have that character. It was hence answered that the
controversy and the remedies invoked were not within
the patent law. As the case dealt with the right to vend
under the patent law, the court reserved any express
statement concerning the scope of the right to use conferred by that law.
In Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S.490,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the right to fix a permanent marketing price at which
phonographs should be re-sold after they had been sold
by the patentee was considered. Basing its action upon
the substance of things, and disregarding mere forms of
expression as to license, etc., the court held that the contract was obviously in substance like the one considered
in the Miles Medical Case and not different from the one
which had come under review in Bauer v. O'Donnell.
Thus brushing away disguises resulting from forms of expression in the contract, and considering it in the light
of the patent law, it was held that the attempt to regulate the future price or the future marketing of the'patented article was not within the monopoly granted by the
patent law, in accordance with the rule laid down in
Bauer v. O'Donnell.
The general doctrines, although presented in a different
aspect, were considered in Motion Picture Patents Co. v.
Universal Film Manufacturing Co., 243 U. S. 502. The
scope of the case will be at once made manifest by the
two questions which were certified for solution. "First.
May a patentee or his assignee license another to manufacture and sell a patented machine and by a mere notice'
attached to it limit its use by the purchaser or by the purchaser's lessee, to films which are no part of the patented
machine, and which are not patented? Second. May
the assignee of a patent, which has licensed another to
make and sell the machine covered by it, by a mere notice
attached to such machine, limit the use of it by the purchaser or by the purchaser's lessee to terms not stated in
the notice but which are to be fixed, after sale, by such
assignee in its discretion?" The case therefore directly
involved the general question of the power of the patentee
to sell and yet, under the guise of license or otherwise, to
put restrictions which in substance were repugnant to the
rights which necessarily arose from the sale which was
made. In other words, it required once again a consid-

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 25

8.

Opinion of the Court.

eration of the doctrine which had been previously annoulced in Henry v. Dick Co. and of the significance of
the monopoly of the right to use, conferred by the patent
law, which had been reserved in Bauer v. O'Donnell. Comprehensively reviewing the subject, it was decided that the
rulings in Bauer v. O'Donnell and Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co. conflicted with the doctrine announced
and the rights sustained in Henry v. Dick Co., and that
case was consequently overruled. Reiterating the ruling
in the two last cases, it was again decided that, as by virtue of the patent law, one whQ had sold a patented machine and received the price, and had thus placed the
machine so sold beyond the confines of the patent law,
could not, by qualifying restrictions as to use, keep under
the patent monopoly a subject to which the monopoly
no longer applied.
Applying the cases thus reviewed, there can be no
doubt that the alleged price-fixing contract disclosed in
the certificate was contrary to the general law and void.
There can be equally no doubt that the power to make it
in derogation of the general law was not within the monopoly conferred by the patent law and that the attempt
to enforce its apparent obligations under the guise of a
patent infringement was not embraced within the remedies given for the protection of the rights which the patent law conferred.
Thus concluding, it becomes we think unnecessary to
do more than say that we are of opinion that the attempt
in argument to distinguish the cases by the assumption
that they rested upon a mere question of the form of notice on the patented article, or,the right to contract solely
by reference to such notice, is devoid of merit, since the
argument disregards the fundamental ground upon which,
as we have seen, the decided cases must rest. Moreover,
so far as the argument proceeds upon the assumption of
the grave disaster which must come to the holder* of pat,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

ent rights and articles made under them from the future
application of the doctrine which the cases establish, it
must be apparent that if the forebodings are real the
remedy for them is to be found, not in an attempt judicially to correct doctrines which by reiterated decisions
have become conclusively fixed, but in invoking the curative power of legislation. In addition, through perhaps
an abundance of precaution, we direct attention to the
fact that nothing in the decided cases to which we have
referred, having regard either to the application of the
general law or of the patent law, deprives an inventor of
any right coming within the patent monopoly, since the
cases alone concerned whether the monopoly of the patent law can be extended beyond the scope of that law or,
in other words, applied to articles after they have gone
beyond its reach. The proposition so earnestly insisted
upon, that, while this may be true, it does not fairly consider the reflex detriment to come to the rights of property
of the inventor within the patent law as a result of not
recognizing the right to continue to apply the patent law
as to objects which have passed beyond its scope, is obviously not one susceptible of judicial cognizance. This
must be, since whether, for the preservation of the rights
which are within a law, its provisions should be extended
to embrace things which it does not include, typically illustrates that which is exclusive of judicial power and
within the scope of legislative action.
It remains, then, only to apply the principles established by the authorities which we have stated to the
answers to the questions.
The first question is, "Does jurisdiction attach under
the patent laws of the United States?" As we assume under the admissions of counsel that the bill asserted the existence of rights under the patent law, and as at the time it
was filed the want of merit in such assertion had not been
so conclusively settled as to cause it to be frivolous, we

BOSTON STORE v. AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE CO. 27
8.

BRAwDEs, J., condurring.

are of opinion that the court had jurisdiction to pass upon
the case as made by the bill, that is, to determine whether
or not the suit arose under the patent law and hence as
thus understood the question should be answered, yes.
Considering the second and third questions as virtually
involving one consideration we state them together:
"2. If so, do the recited facts disclose that some right
or privilege granted by the patent laws has been violated?
"3. Can a patentee, in connection with the act of delivering his patented article to another for a gross consideration then received, lawfully reserve by contract a part
of his monopoly right to sell?"
Correcting their ambiguity of expression by treating
the questions, as they must be treated, as resting upon
and deducible from the facts stated in the certificate and
therefore hs embracing inquiries concerning the contract
of sale containing the price maintenance stipulation, it
follows from what we have said that the questions must
be answered in the negative.
The final question is this:
"4.If jurisdiction attaches solely by reason of diversity of citizenship, do the recited facts constitute a cause
of action?"
Upon the hypothesis which this question assumes there
also can be no doubt that it must be answered in the negative.
The first question will be certified as answered yes, and
the second, third and fourth as answered, no.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTicE BRtNDFIS, concurring.
Whether a producer of goods should be permitted to
fix by contract, express or implied, the price at which the
purchaser may resell them, and if so, under what conditions, is an economic question. To -decide it wisely it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
"Syllabus.

246 U. S.

necessary to consider the relevant facts, industrial and
commercial, rather than established legal principles. On
that question I have expressed elsewhere views which
differ apparently from those entertained by a majority
of my brethren. I concur, however, in the answers given
herein to all the questions certified; because I consider
that the series of cases referred to in the opinion settles
the law for this court. If the rule so declared is believed
to be harmful in its operation, the remedy may be found,
as it has been sought, through application to the Congress or relief may possibly be given by the Federal Trade
Commission which has also been applied to.
MR. JusTice HommsS and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVAN-

are of opinion that each of the questions should be
answered in the affirmative.
TER

WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP & ENGINE BUILDING COMPANY v. INTERNATIONAL CURTIS
MARINE TURBINE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TIM
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 393. Argued January 29, 30, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

The Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, providing, in part, that
when patented inventions are used by the United States without
license from the owner, or lawful right., the owner may recover
reasonable compensation for such use in the Court of Claims, is not
to be construed as automatically conferring a general license on the
Government to use such inventions and as thereby authorizing their
use at the will of private parties in the manufacture of things to be
furnished under contracts between them and the United States.

