MUNICIPAL SECURITIES CORP. v. KANSAS CITY. 63
Opinion of the Court.
MUNICIPAL SECURITIES CORPORATION v.
KANSAS CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 56. Argued November 15, 16, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.
If the decision of the state court rests upon a ground of general law
adequate to support it, independently of the decision upon alleged
violation of federal right, ihe case is not reviewable here.
So held, where the plaintiff, as assignee of special tax bills issued by a
city in payment for sewer construction, claimed that, by appropriating a certain lot in the sewer district through condemnation
proceedings and by thus preventing the lien of the tax bills from
attaching thereto, the city took property without due process and
so rendered itself liable, whereas the state court, construing the
sewer contract, the city ordinance and charter and state constitution
and laws, held that there could be no recovery against the city on
the tax bills themselves, and that the cause of action, if any, for the
alleged wrongful taking, was a separate matter not covered by the
assignment.
Writ of error to review 265 Missouri, 252, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Scarritt,with whom Mr. Elliott H. Jones
and Mr. Charles M. Miller were on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. A. F. Smith, with whom Mr. J. A. Harzfeld and
Mr. Jay M. Lee were on the briefs, for defendant in error.

MR.JUsTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought suit in the Circuit Court
of Jackson County, Missouri, to recover on certain tax
bills issued to one .Michael Walsh, its assignor, for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

construction of a sewer in Kansas City, Missouri. The
case was tried on an amended petition and answer. The
amended petition was filed on May, 20,1909, but it is said
the suit was begun on May 29, 1906. The amended petition set out that by an ordinance approved January 24,
1901, Kansas City provided a sewer district, and let a
contract for the construction of the sewer to Walsh. That
Walsh constructed the sewer, and was paid for the work
by special tax bills against sewer district number 146 in
Kansas City. That Lot one, Block one, C. H. Pratt's
Vine Street Addition, is located in said sewer district, and
that at the time the work was done and the tax bills issued
the owner of said property held the same subject to certain proceedings to condemn said lot for a public parkway
in the South Park District of Kansas City established by
an ordinance approved October 3, 1899; that said parkway ordinance ordered that said Lot one, Block one and
other property should'be condemned for the purpose of a
public parkway, and proceedings were begun in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri, for the condemnation of the lot for that purpose; that the condemnation
proceedings were carried to judgment in the Circuit Court
of Jackson County, Missouri, wherein a verdict had been
rendered for the value of the property on June 4,, 1901,
that the verdict was duly affirmed, and judgment rendered
on September 14, 1901, in the Circuit Court. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri said judgment was
suspended until affirmed by the Supreme Court, June 4,
1902, and that after that date the city paid for and took
possession of said Lot one, Block one, Pratt's Vine Street
Addition, and now is holding the same for a public park.
Plaintiff further alleges that, while the condemnation proceedings were pending in the Supreme Court, Walsh completed the work, and that tax bills therefor were issued to
him on March 15, 1902, chargeable in payment of the appropriate share of the cost of the sewerupon the lot above

MUNICIPAL SECURITIES CORP. v. KANSAS CITY. 65
63.

Opinion of the Court.

described. The plaintiff alleges that Walsh sold and assigned the certificates or special tax bills to it; that by
reason of the condemnation proceedings and the judgment therein the tax bill never became a lien upon the
lot, above described, and that upon a final determination
of said condemnation case Kansas City was liable to pay
the amount of said tax bill with interest, and that the city
cannot by an act of itself, not consented to by the plaintiff, either by judicial proceedings in the nature of condemnation or otherwise, destroy plaintiff's right to collect
the cost of the said work in accordance with the contract
mentioned; the plaintiff invokes the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing the protection of its property by due process of law
as against the acts of States. Plaintiff alleges that before
the beginning of the suit it offered to surrender to the
Board of Public Works of Kansas City the tax bills issued
as aforesaid, and to accept a certificate as piovided in the
city charter in lieu thereof, if the Board should hold that
the said certificates or tax bills were not certificates conformable to the provisions of the charter of Kansas City,
but the Board refused to accept the same or to issue a
new certificate, and denied all liability for the said charge.
The city answered the amended petition, and stated
therein that on March 15, 1902, it did issue special tax
bills to Michael Walsh as set out in the petition; and that
Walsh on March 15, 1902, executed and delivered to
Kansas City a full and complete release on account of any
claim arising on said tax bills as provided in ยง 16, Article
9, of the charter of Kansas City. The answer further
sets up that the charter of Kansas City provides a method
by which the city shall pay its share of any public improvement on land owned in fee by it; that no certificate was
issued by the city on the lot in question or any other lots
described in the petition; and that it was not found that
the lots mentioned in the petition were owned in fee sim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

ple by the city; that there was no compliance with the
charter of the city, and no obligation created thereunder.
At the trial the tax bills sued upon were introduced,
indorsed as follows: "Assignment. For value received assign this Special Tax Bill and the lien thereof
to Municipal Securities Corporation, and authorize
to sign - name - to the receipt. Michael Walsh."
The record does not disclose when this assignment was
made, and it bears no date.
Upon trial in the Circuit Court the court held as a
matter of law that Kansas City was an agency of the State
of Missouri, and had by its official acts, ordinances and
conduct appropriated to the public use the property and
property rights of the plaintiff consisting of valid and subsisting liens upon certain real estate without making just
compensation, or any compensation therefor, and thereby
deprived the plaintiff of its property without due process
of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment and contrary to the bill of rights of the State of Missouri, and rendered judgment for the plaintiff.
The case being taken to the Supreme Court of Missouri
the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed (265
Missouri, 252), and the case was brought to this court because of an alleged violation of the protection afforded
by the Fourteenth Amendment as the result of the alleged
wrongful appropriation of the plaintiff's property. The
Supreme Court of Missouri after'reciting the facts, held
that the suit was upon the tax bills, that as Walsh's
agreement with the city and the ordinance itself provided
that the city should not be liable to pay for the work or
any part thereof otherwise than by the issue of special
tax bills, and because the charter of the city provided that
the city should in no event or in any manner be liable for
or on account of the work done in constructing the sewer,
but that the work should be paid for in special tax bills
which would be a lien on the property described in them,

MUNICIPAL SECURITIES CORP. v. KANSAS CITY. 67
63.

Opinion of the Court.

and that under the Constitution of Missouri and the statutes of. that State the use of municipal funds in the payment of tax bills was absolutely forbidden, there could be
no recovery upon them, and in so far as recovery was
sought because of the asserted conversion or destruction

of the lien of the tax bills, the judgment for the plaintiff
could not stand. Concerning this feature of the case the
court said:
"The suit here is upon a tax bill in some aspects and
upon a tort as for conversion in others. The petition is
sui generis, being possibly what is meant by learned counsel for plaintiff when they say of it in their brief that it
is 'typical in form.'
"We need not consider whether a recovery could have
been had upon tort, as for the alleged conversion, or destruction, of the property upon which ordinarily the lien
of the tax bills would have been fixed. The assignment
is not of the tort, nor of the contract, nor of the right to recover
upon a quantum meruit, but of the tax bill pure and simple,
for it says: 'For value received assign this special
-tax bill and the lien thereof to Municipal Securities Corporation,' etc. The lien assigned was upon the lots and not
against defendant; but the law is fairly well settled that
the title of the city to these lots for use as a street attached
by relation back under the facts here to the date of the
judgment confirming the verdict of the jury, to-wit, September 14, 1901, a date long prior to the issuing of the
tax bills, which were issued March 15, 1902. (In re Paseo,
78 Mo. App. '518.) The best that can be said for plaintiff's insistence touching this lien is that thie lien of the
tax bills attached conditionally to these lots; the condition of attachment being that the defendant would dismiss its condemnation case. short of final judgment and
payment of the money into court, as under the general
law, absent a charter provision forbidding, it had the
right to do. (State ex rel. v. Fort, 180 Missouri, 97; Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

road v. Second Street Imp. Co., 256 Missouri, 1. c. 407.)
The city did not so dismiss the proceeding and the right
of the city, temporarily suspended, as we may express it,
by the appeal, attached upon the affirmance here of the
judgment of condemnation as of the date of such judgment (In re Paseo, supra), and had the effect to convert
these lots of private persons into integral parts of the
highway, or street system of Kansas City, and to take
them out of the category of property of private persons
upon which liens of tax bills would attach; but since these
lots became parts of public highways the judgment condemning them did not have the effect of converting them
into that class of city property, the sewering of which
created a liability against the city for which certificates
evidencing such liability against the city were issuable
by charter. (Sec. 14, Art. 9, Charter of Kansas City,

1898.)
"If Walsh himself had sued for the tort of conversion
alleged in effect by the briefs and contentions of counsel
for plaintiff, a different and much more serious question
would confront us; but it seems idle to insist that upon thepetition here and upon the assignment above quoted, that
plaintiff may recover upon the theory of tort. We have
seen already how futile and idle is the view that plaintiff may recover upon contract. Moreover, no such tort
is assigned. Nothing is assigned but the tax bill and the
lien thereof. . . . But be this as may be, the point
of peculiarity in the instant case that plaintiff cannot in
any event recover upon any theory of contract, but that
it must recover, if at all, upon the theory of liquidated
compensation for a tort, which tort was not assigned to
it and on which it does not sue, destroys in our view any
helpful analogy between the above cases from other jurisdictions and this one at bar."
As the matter above extracted from the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Missouri shows, that court held the

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
63.

Syllabus.

action to be on the assigned tax bills, and that if Walsh
might have maintained a suit because of the wrongful
taking of the property as alleged, nothing was assigned
to the plaintiff in error but the tax bills and the lien
thereof; and that the plaintiff could not-maintain this
action as one in tort because it did not appear to be the
assignee of such right of action if one existed. It therefore follows that the Missouri Supreme Court rested its
decision upon a ground of general law adequate to support it, independently of the decision upon alleged violation of federal right under the Fourteenth Amendment.
In that situation it is well settled that a case from a state
court is not reviewable here. Wood v. Chesborough, 228
U. S. 672; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk & Ocean
View Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S.
146.
It follows that the writ of error must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, and it is
So ordered.

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 111. Submitted December 20, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Land, part of an odd-numbered section within the primary limits,
but covered by a valid preEmption filing at the date of the definite
location of the right of way, was excepted from the grant made to
the Denver Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company by the Acts of
July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489; and March 3, 1869, c. 127, 15 Stat.
324. Kansas PacificBy. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629.
Upon the facts as found, held, that one who under a deed of the Denver
Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company and through mesne con-

