OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

246 U. S.

rates voluntarily adopted, the gain of revenue would be
more than $10,000-approximately 1 per cent. upon the
entire $1,057,915.02.
The evidence submitted upon the issue of confiscation
suggests other questions that need not be discussed or
even bnentioned; but we must not be understood as accepting what we have not particularly criticized. It is sufficient to say there is a failure to prove that the rate is unremunerative.
Decrees affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE HouwsS took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.

DALTON ADDING MACHINE COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA AT THE RELATION
OF THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 176.

Argued March 11, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

A material part of the business conducted in Virginia by plaintiff in
error-a foreign corporation-was intrastate, and the company was
therefore subject to the licensing power of the State.
118 Virginia, 563, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas A. Banning and Mr. Harold S. Bloomberg,
for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. J. D. Hank, Jr., Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, for defendant in error.

DALTON ADDING MACHINE CO. v. VIRGINIA.
498.

499

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE MOREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiff in error, an Ohio corporation, complains that
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia improperly
affirmed an order by the Corporation Commission assessing a fine against it for transacting business in the State
without certificate of authority required by law..' 118 Virginia, 563. That court adopted and approved the Commission's opinion, which, among other things, declared:
"We are of the opinion that the facts of this case demonstrate beyond a peradventure that the Dalton Adding
Machine Company is doing a substantial part of its business in this State in the following particulars:
"(a) In bringing its machines into this State before
selling them, and in maintaining a stock of machines for
exhibition and trial, and in selling such machines in this
State, after their transportation in interstate commerce
has been concluded and they have become mingled with
the general mass of property in this State;
"(b) In renting such machines and collecting rents
therefor from its customers in this State at will;
"(c) In buying and exchanging machines for machines
made by other manufacturers, and in selling such machines
so received in exchange at will;
"(d) In employing a mechanic in this State and entering into contracts for repairing of machines owned by
persons in this State from time to time and collecting the
charges therefor;
"(e) In keeping on hand in this State certain parts of
machines and a stock of paper and ribbons suitable for use
upon the machines, which are freely sold from time to time
by its agents in Richmond to its customers.
"We think it perfectly apparent that in these partic
iculars the business of the company in this State is not
Ccommerce among the States,' the freedom of which is

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

guaranteed by the United States Constitution, but that
such business, in every essential particular, is business
which has been transacted by the company in this State in
violation of the statutes referred to."
Beyond serious doubt the above specifications concerning the business carried on in Virginia are supported
by the record. A material part of it was intrastate.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA AT THE RELATION OF THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 177. Argued March 11, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
A foreign corporation, for lump sums, made and performed contracts
to furnish completed automatic railway signal systems in Virginia,
in the performance of which the materials, supplies, machinery, devices and equipment were brought from without, but their installation, as structures permanently attached to the soil, required employment of local labor, digging of ditches, construction of concrete
foundations, and painting. Held, that local business was involved,
separate and distinct from interstate commerce, and subject to the
licensing power of the State. Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16.
The Virginia law imposing a fee for the privilege of doing local business
of $1,000 on foreign corporations with capital over $1,000,000 and
not exceeding $10,000,000 (Acts 1910, c. 53, ยง 38a), upheld, as not
arbitrary or unreasonable under all the circumstances, though the
case is on the border line.
118 Virginia, 301, affirmed.

