VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Syllabus.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 2, Original. Submitted March 6, 1917.-Decided April 22, 1918.
A suggestion now made for the first time by West Virginia, viz., that
that State has an interest in an alleged right of Virginia against the
United States respecting lands of the Northwest Territory, presents
no ground for not enforcing the judgment heretofore rendered.
The judgment heretofore rendered can not now be attacked upon the
ground that in original eases in this court one State cannot recover
from another in a mere action of debt.
The suit, however, was more than a mere action to collect a debt.
The principle which forbids the production of state governmental
inequality by affixing conditions to a State's admission is irrelevant
to the question of power to enforce the contract in this case.
The original jurisdiction conferred upon this court by the Constitution
over controversies between States includes the power to enforce
its judgment by appropriate remedial processes, operating where
necessary upon the governmental powers and agencies of a State.
The authority to enforce its judgments is of the essence of judicial
power. That this elementary principle applies to the original jurisdiction in controversies between States has been universally recognized as beyond dispute, as is manifested by the numerous cases of
the kind which have been decided, in not one of which hitherto,
since the foundation of the Government, has a State done otherwise than voluntarily respect and accede to the judgment.
The provision granting this jurisdiction examined as to its origin and
purpose, together with the closely related provisions prohibiting
interstate agreements without the consent of Congress and depriving
the States of army and war-making powers and vesting them in
Congress, the result being to show the clear intention of the Constitution, conceived out of regard for the rights of all the States and
for the preservation of the Constitution itself, to forestall for the
future the dangers of state controversies by uniting with the power
to decide them the power to enforce the decisions against the state
governments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

To this power the reserved powers of the States necessarily are subordinate.
The powers to decide and enforce, comprehensively considered, are
sustained by every authority of the Federal Government, judicial, legislative and executive, which may be appropriately exercised.
The vesting in Congress of complete power to control agreements between States clearly rested upon the conception that Congress, as
the repository not only of legislative power but of primary authority
to maintain armies and declare war, speaking for all the States and
for their protection, was concerned with such agreements and therefore was virtually endowed with the ultimate power of final agreement which was withdrawn from the States.
It follows, by necessary implication, that the power of Congress to
grant or withhold assent to such contracts carries with it the duty
and power to see to their enforcement when made operative by its
sanction.
This power is plenary, limited only by the general rule that acts done
for the exertion of a power must be relevant and appropriate to the
power exerted.
As a national power it is dominant and not circumscribed by the powers
reserved to the States.
The power of Congress to legislate for the enforcement of a contract
between two States under the circumstances here presented is not
incompatible with the grant of original jurisdiction to this court to
entertain a suit on the same subject.
The power of Congress also extends to the creation of new judicial
remedies to meet the exigency occasioned by the judicial duty of
enforcing a judgment against a State under the circumstances here
presented.
Out of consideration for the character of the parties, and in the belief
that the respondent State will now discharge its plain duty without
compulsion, and because the case is such that full opportunity should
be afforded to Congress to exercise its undoubted power to legislate,
the court abstains from determining what judicial remedies are
available under existing legislation and postpones the case, for future
argument upon the following questions: (1) Whether mandamus
compelling the legislature of West Virginia to levy a tax to pay the
judgment is an appropriate remedy. (2) Whether the power and
duty exist to direct the levy of a tax adequate to pay the judgment
and provide for its enforcement irrespective of state agencies. (3)
Whether, if necessary, the judgment may be executed through some

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Statement of the Case.

other equitable remedy, dealing with such funds or taxable property
of West V'nhi, or rights of that State, as may be available.
Right is reserved in the meantime to appoint a master to examine and
report concerning the amount and method to taxation, whether by
the state legislature or through direct action, essential to satisfy
the judgment, as well as concerning the means otherwise existing in
West Virginia which, by the exercise of equitable power, may be
made available to that end.

ON January 29, 1917, Virginia submitted her motion
for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus, and
for an order directed to the State of West Virginia and the
members of her legislature requiring them to show cause
why the writ should not issue, commanding the levy of
a tax to satisfy the judgment heretofore recovered by
Virginia. The motion was granted February 5, 1917, and
the rule issued returnable March 6th following. The
present decision arose upon the respondents' motion to
discharge the rule, submitted on the latter date.'
IThe Reporter has decided to reproduce the petition and motion,
believing that they will add to the future, if not to the immediate,
value of the report. He regrets that, in doing this, the attached exhibits
and the names of numerous respondents have been perforce omitted,
for lack of space. The captions have been left off also. The petition
is as follows:
TO THE CHIEF JUSTICE AND THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES
OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES:
The Petition of the Commonwealth of Virginia by John Garland
Pollard, her Attorney General, shows to the Court that:
I.
The Commonwealth of Virginia filed a Bill in this Court on leave on
February 26,1906, against the State of West Virginia, praying that the
State of West Virginia's proportion of the public debt of Virginia, as
it stood prior to 1861, be ascertained and satisfied.
IH.
On June 14, 1915, this Court entered its decree and judgment in the
suit as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

Mr. John Garland Pollard, Attorney General of the

State of Virginia, Mr. Win. A. Anderson, Mr. Randolph
Harrison,Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Sanford Robinson,
for petitioner:
In view of the answer of West Virginia, which stated that
it had no property subject to execution, and of its claim
"SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
Original No. 2.

October Term, 1914.

CoMUoNWBA rH OF VIRGIA, Comptainant,

Vs.
STATn OF WEST VIRGINIA, Defendant.

"This cause came to be heard on pleadings and proofs, the reports of the Special Master and the exceptions of the parties
thereto, and was argued by counsel.
"On consideration whereof, the Court finds that the defendant's
share of the debt of the complainant is as follows:
"Principal, after allowing credits as stated, $4,215,622.28;
interest from January 1, 1861, to July 1, 1891, at four per cent per
annum, $5,143,059.18; interest from July 1, 1891, to July 1, 1915,
at three per cent per annum, $3,035,248.04, making a total of interest of $8,187,307.22, which, added to the principal sum, makes
a total of $12,393,9?9.50.
"It is therefore iiow here ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this Court that the complainant, Commonwealth of Virginia, recover of and from the defendant, State of West Virginia, the sum
of $12,393,929.50, with interest thereon from July 1, 1915, until
paid, at the rate of five per cent per annum.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that each party
pay one-half of the costs.
"June 14, 1915."
II.
The said judgment and decree has ever since remained and is now
unpaid. The State of West Virginia has failed to pay the Commonwealth of Virginia the same, or any part thereof, although payment
has been respectfully requested by the Commonwealth of Virginia of
the State of West Virginia.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

that this court cannot bring about a payment of its decree
by the issuance of writ of mandamus or of any other
process, the present record presents this question: "If, as
the result of a controversy between two States, a decree is
entered by this court against one, in favor of the other,
IV.
The correspondence showing the request of the Commonwealth of
Virginia to the Stat of West Virginia for the payment of said decree
and judgment, and the correspondence relating to a proposed joint
conference of the Debt Commissions of the two States, as suggested
by the West Virginia Commission, are hereto attached and made a
part of this petition.
From said correspondence it will appear:
That on October 19, 1915, the Chairman of the Virginia Debt Commission, in pursuance of authority from that body, addressed a letter
to the Governor of West Virginia, requesting that provision be made
for the payment of said decree and judgment.
That on October 28, 1915, the Governor of West Virginia replied
that he had convened the West Virginia Debt Commission, and in
conjunction with them had reached the conclusion that it would be
to the advantage of both States to have a joint conference of the
Commissions of the two States at the earliest date possible.
That on November 12, 1915, the Chairman of the Virginia Debt
Commission, in pursuance of authority from that body, replied, suggesting that the proposed joint conference be held on November 23,
1915.
That on November 12, 1915, the Governor of West Virginia replied
by telegram that he would communicate with the members of the West
Virginia Commission and would later reply further, which later reply
was duly received November 19th, and was to the effect that the West
Virginia Commission would probably not be able to have the joint
conference, or meeting, before some time early in December, of which
he would advise the Virginia Commission later.
That on December 6, 1915, no further advice having been received
from the Governor of West Virgna, the Chairman of the Virginia Debt
Commission addressed another letter to the Governor of West Virginia,
expressing the hope that the Virginia Commission might receive a
reply at an early date.
To this letter, addressed on December 6, 1915, to the Governor of
West Virginia, no reply has been received.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

is the court unable, despite the pecuniary ability of the
debtor, to compel payment?" .
Past records disclose cases in which municipal bodies
have repudiated their sealed obligations; but the State
of West Virginia presents, perhaps, the first instance in
V.
On June 5, 1916, the Commonwealth of Virginia moved the Court
to issue its writ of execution directed to the Marshal of this Court
against the State of West Virginia, directing the Marshal of this Court
to levy upon the property of the State of West Virginia, subject to
such levy, for the satisfaction of the decree and judgment in the suit
of the Commonwealth of Virginia against the State of West Virginia
herein above mentioned, and that the Commonwealth of Virginia be
gianted such other and further relief in the premises as was just and
meet. This Court denied the motion for the reason stated in the opinion
of the Court. [241 U. S.202.1
V1.
The answer and return of the State of West Virginia to the petition
and motion of the Commonwealth of.Virginia for a writ of execution
asserted that the writ of execution proyed for by the Commonwealth
of Virginia should not be issued for the following, among other, reasons,
and upon the following, among other, grounds:
"Because not only presumptively, but in fact, the State of West
Virginia did not, before or at the time of the rendition of the judgment
herein, own, and has not since owned, and does not now own, any
property, real or personal, except such property as was, and is devoted
exclusively to public use, and none of the property so devoted may be
levied upon or sold under execution."
VII.
On November 14, 1916, the Virginia Debt Commission learning that
the Governor of West Virginia was about to convene the Legislature of
West Virginia in extra session, thr6ugh its Chairman telegraphed the
Governor of West Virginia requesting him to include in the call to be
issued for that purpose, as one of the matters to be considered, the
settlement of the decree of this Court rendered in favor of Virginia in
the suit of-the State of Virginia against West Virginia, to which the
Governor of West Virginia replied by telegraph, on November 15, 1916,
giving as his reasons for not embodying the matter of the debt settlement in his call, that the time the Legislature would be in session was
too short for a proper consideration of the matter, and, in addition,

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

which one of the great Commonwealths of the Union has
repudiated the duty imposed upon it to satisfy a debt
decreed to be paid by it.
that on the second Wednesday of January, 1917, the Legislature would
convene in regular session composed, with the exception of hold-over
Senators, of newly-elected members to whom, as the Governor thought,
the question should be submitted, copies of which telegrams are
hereto annexed and made a part of this petition. Thereafter, on or
about November, 1916, the Governor of West Virginia issued a call
convening the Legislature of West Virginia in extra session, and did
not include in said call as one of the matters to be considered, the settlement of the decree of this Court in favor of Virginia in the suit of Virginia against West Virginia. Thereafter, in November, 1916, the Legislature of the State of West Virginia met in extra session and remained
in session until December 1, 1916, without giving any consideration in
any respect to the settlement of said decree of this Court.
VIII.
On December 29, 1916, the Chairman of the Virginia Debt Commission, in pursuance of authority from that body, addressed a letter to
the Governor of West Virginia requesting him by a special message to
urge upon the Legislature, soon to assemble, the prompt enactment of
such legislation as may be requisite to provide the proper means for
the liquidation of the decree entered against the State of West Virginia in favor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and on said December
29, 1916, the Chairman of the Virginia Debt Commission, in pursuance
of authority from that body, also addressed a letter to the President of
the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Delegates of the State of
West Virginia, requesting that the Legislature of the State of West
Virginia at its coming session take such steps, and make such enactments as may be necessary to insure the prompt payment of the aforesaid indebtedness, to which letters the Governor of the State of West
Virginia replied by a communication dated January 9, 1917, and the
President of the Senate replied by communication dated January 11,
1917, respectively, copies of which letters are hereto annexed and made
a part of this petition. No reply has as yet been received from the
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

IX.
The West Virginia Legislature convened on January 10, 1917, and
since that date has been in session at the Capitol in Charleston, West
Virginia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

We will not dignify the suggestion of a defense because
of an alleged conditional deed delivered in 1783, with
notice, for the obvious reason that not only is the claim
upon its own face unworthy of notice, but because one
State cannot liquidate an indebtedness owing by it to
The Legislature of the State of West Virginia consists of the Senate
and the House of Delegates.
The members of the Senate of the State of West Virginia are Honorables [here follow their names].
The members of the House of Delegates of the State of West Virginia are [here follow their names].
The Honorable Wells Goodykoontz is the President of the Senate,
and Honorable Joseph S. Thurmond is the Speaker of the House of
Delegates of the State of West Virginia.
X.
It was the absolute ministerial duty of the Legislature of the State
of West Virginia, and of the aforesaid Senators and Members of the
House of Delegates thereof, to take the necessary steps and make the
necessary enactments to provide for the payment of the said judgment
of $12,393,929.50, with interest and costs as provided in said judgment,
upon the convening of said Legislature on January 10, 1917, but,
although respectfully requested to do so by your petitioner, the Legislature and the members thereof have taken no step and have made
no enactment to provide for, or insure payment of the aforesaid indebtedness. Nor have any steps been taken by the Legislature, or the
Senate, or the House of Delegates to give any indication, or hope that
the Legislature will, or intends to make provision for the payment of
said indebtedness. On the contrary the Governor of West Virginia,
in a special message on the "Virginia Debt," submitted to the Legislature of that State on January 18, 1917, a copy of which is attached
hereto, recommended that the Legislature
"(present to the Court a petition for a re-hearing of the matter
of the interest upon the debt;"
and further recommended that
"Provision should be made also by the Legislature for having
presented to the Supreme Court of the United States the contentions of West Virginia as to why Virginia should be restrained
from pressing her claim against West Virginia further, until the
State of Virginia sues in the Court of Claims, as I am informed

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

another State, by setting up a claim that there is an indebtedness owing to it by the United States. Presumably,
a claim against a party, thought unworthy of notice, be
tween 1783 and 1910, would not go far in 1917 towards liquidating an indebtedness owing by a second party to a third.
The claim of inability on the part of this court to enshe can, for the purpose of recovering her claim growing out of
the cession of the Northwest Territory, and thereby reducing
the joint assets of the two States to a common fund, which will
place the States in a position to receive their proportionate credits
and to end further litigation."
And concluded with the expression of the hope
"that some suggestion will be forthcoming that will result in
the protection of the interests of our State in this litigation, and
bringing about the consideration of further equities which West
Virginia is entitled to receive, and after the proper equities have
been conceded to the State, the prompt liquidation of the residue,
if any there be."
XI.
Under the Constitution of the State of West Virginia the session of
the Legislature now convened will be adjourned on or before the 24th
day of February, 1917, unless, by the concurrence of two-thirds of the
members elected to each house, its session shall be further continued
beyond said date; and the Legislature must assemble biennially and
can not assemble oftener unless convened by the Governor.
In consequence of the time which has already elapsed without any
effort being made by said Legislature to perform its duty in the matter
of making provision for the payment of the said decree and judgment,
there will be insufficient time therefor unless the Legislature promptly,
and without further delay performs its said duty.
Your petitioner avers that it is not the intention of the authorities
of West Virginia to take any steps by legislation, or otherwise, to make
provision for the payment of the said judgment and decree, but that it
is the intention to delay making provision for such payment under
the pretexts set forth in the letter from the Governor of West Virginia
dated January 9, 1917, and in the special message submitted to the
Legislature of that State on January 18, 1917, copies of which are
hereto attached, until it will be too late for the Legislature of West
Virginia now assembled to take any action in the premises.
It is further averred that your petitioner is without remedy in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

force its decree is one of far-reaching importance. If it
be sustained, its decrees will be little better than waste
.paper.
Our contention is, that though a decree may fail of
liquidation because of the debtor's lack of funds, it can
premises unless this Court shall command the Senators and Members
of the House of Delegates of the State of West Virginia to assess and
levy a tax upon the property in the State of West Virginia to provide
for the payment of said judgment and decree according to the terms
thereof, as they are in duty bound to do.
WHEREFORE, your petitioner, Commonwealth of Virginia, prays
that a rule be made and issued from this Court, directed to the said
Honorable Wells Goodykoontz, President of the Senate, Honorables

.

.

..

Senators of the State of West Virginia; Honorable

Joseph S. Thurmond, Speaker of the House of Delegates, Honorables

.

.

.

. Members of the House of Delegates of the State of

West Virginia, to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue
commanding the said Honorable Wells Goodykoontz, President of the
Senate, Honorables

.

.

..

Senators of the State of West Virginia;

Honorable Joseph S. Thurmond, Speaker of the House of Delegates,
Honorables

.

.

.

. Members of the House of Delegates of the

State of West Virginia, forthwith and at the present session of the
Legislature to assess and levy a tax upon the property within the State
of West Virginia sufficient to provide for the payment of said Judgment
of $12,393,929.50, with interest thereon from July 1, 1915, until paid,
at the rate of five per cent per annum, and costs, according to the terms
of said judgment, unless the Legislature shall forthwith and at its
present session make provision for the payment of said judgment by a
duly authorized issue of bonds, the proceeds of which shall be sufficient
to pay said judgment in full in cash, and for such other and further
relief in the premises as shall seem just and meet; and your petitioner
will ever pray, etc.
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA,
By JoHN GAR&RND PoLLAnn,

Attorney General of Virginia.
The motion and return are as follows:
And now come the respondents, the State of West Virginia and Wells
Goodykoontz, President of the West Virginia Senate, et al., being all
the members of said Senate, and Joseph S. Thurmoud, Speaker of the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

never thus fail where the debtor is abundantly able to
pay and where a body in the State has power to appropriate the State's funds to that purpose.
Upon each of the three great departments of the National Government are imposed duties, and each, either
expressly or impliedly, is vested with powers to perform
them. The makers of the Constitution, where they imHouse of Delegates of the State of West Virginia, et al., being all the
members of said House of Delegates, and move to quash the rule
awarded against them at the prayer of the Commonwealth of Virginia
upon the 5th day of February, 1917, ordering them to show cause
before this Court on the 6th day of March, 1917, why a writ of mandamus should not issue against them as prayed, and assign as grounds of
said motion the following:
1. A writ of mandamus from the Supreme Court of the Nation
coercing the legislative department of a State, and compelling it to
enact a revenue law, or to lay a tax for State purposes, would infringe
upon the constitutional rights of the States expressly reserved unto
them by the Tenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution;
2. The constitutional grant of jurisdiction to hear and determine
controversies between States does not include, as an incident to such
jurisdiction, the power to enforce a judgment, rendered in the exercise thereof, by a writ of mandamus addressed to a State Legislature, coercing and controlling it in the exercise of its legislative
functions.
3. Such a writ for such a purpose would be contrary to the principles
and usages of law, and does not fall within the category of final writs
against a State.
4. It is not the office of a writ of execution, nor can it be of any writ
used as a substitute therefor, to create property, by legislation or otherwise, for the satisfaction of a debt, but only to seize and subject property already in existence for that purpose.
And now, by leave of Court, these respondents, without waiving
their motion to discharge said rule, or any of the grounds assigned in
support thereof, make further return thereunto as follows:
I. They deny, as charged in the tenth paragraph of the petition of
the relator, that it was the absolute ministerial duty of the Legislature
of the State of West Virginia, and of the members of her Senate and
House of Delegates, upon the convening of said Legislature on January 10, 1917, to take the necessary steps and make the necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

posed a duty, granted the power to perform it. Owing to
the commercial, and other, relations, between the States,
it was extremely probable that transactions would arise
which would result in indebtedness by one to another.
It was therefore, in view of the abandonment of absolute
enactments providing for the payment of the judgment in favor of the
State of Virginia against the State of West Virginia, and described in
said petition. On the contrary, they say that their duties in the premises, and under the 8th Section of the 8th Article of the Constitution of
West Virginia of 1863, were, and are, not ministerial, but legislative,
deliberative and discretionary; and they further say that, instead of
omitting or neglecting their duty as charged in the petition, upon the
convening of the Legislature on January tenth, or shortly thereafter,
the Senate and House of Delegates, each for itself, appointed a committee, with authority to hear arguments, report upon resolutions and
recommend appropriate measures looking to the settlement of the
judgment rendered at the suit of Virginia against West Virginia, which
committees were ready to begin their sittings and to enter upon their
work at the time of the presentation of the petition of the relator to
this Court; but that since said time, and in consequence of said petition
and the rule ordered thereon upon the 5th day of February, 1917, all
matters relating to the settlement of said judgment have been suspended and held in abeyance, except that, on the 21st day of February,
a joint resolution was adopted by both houses of the Legislature,
directing the Attorney General of the State and associate counsel to
make appearance and defense, in the name and on behalf of the State
of West Virginia and the several members constituting the Senate and
House of Delegates thereof, to the rule in mandamus issued herein;
and said resolution further provided that, in the event the Legislature
should not be in session at the time of the rendition of the Court's
judgment upon said rule, whether its judgment be for or against the
State of West Virginia, the Governor is requested to convene the Legislature in special session as soon as may be for the purpose of doing
without delay what should be done in the premises.
A copy of said resolution is filed herewith as a part hereof.
II. Further answering, these respondents say that they are advised
that the writ of mandamus is a discretionary writ, and that this Court
will exercise its discretion against the issuance thereof if to issue the
same would give an undue advantage to the relator, or operate unjustly
against the respondents; and they say that it should not be issued in
this case for the following reasons:

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

independence, imperatively necessary that some method
should be devised by which the existence of indebtedness
could be determined, and its collection enforced. There
was but one department by which this result could be
attained, i. e., the judicial department.
By Art. III of the Constitution it was required that
These respondents are informed and believe, and upon such information and belief say, that the State of Virginia has a claim against the
Government of the United States for many millions of dollars, which
should be collected, and, when collected, that the State of West Virginia should participate therein in the same ratio that she, the State
of West Virginia, is compelled by the judgment of this Court to contribute to the payment of Virginia's ante bellum debt; that is to say,
she should be paid out of said claim by the State of Virginia 23Y2%
thereof.
And they further say that they are advised that the State of Virginia alone can take steps for the collection of said claim, and are informed that Virginia has taken no such steps, but has to the present
time withheld, and still withholds, from any effort to reduce this common asset to possession, and yet seeks to compel the State of West
Virginia to pay her proportion of the common debt, and thus denies
her the opportunity to share in the common assets.
They further say that the equity aforesaid was not passed upon by
this Court in the settlement of the controversy between Virginia and
West Virginia, and could not have been, because the United States
was not a party thereto, and could not have been, but that the State
of Virginia could have theretofore impleaded the United States in the
Court of Claims upon the claim aforesaid, and reduced the same to
possession, so that West Virginia could have asserted, and this Court
could have allowed, her right to participation therein, but she did not,
but then failed and refused, and still fails and refuses, so to do.
These respondents further say that the origin, nature and history of
the claim aforesaid is as follows:
Prior to the adoption of the articles of confederation entered into
by the thirteen original States, Maryland refused to sign the same,
unless and until those States holding western territory should sirrender
the same to the United States. The State of Virginia at the time laid
claim to all that territory lying northwest of the Ohio River out of
which the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and a
portion of Minnesota have since been formed; and, by an Act of her
General Assembly passed at a session commencing on the 20th day of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

there should be one Supreme Court, though it was permitted to Congress, from time to time, to ordain and
establish inferior courts. It was provided that the judicial
power should extend to many enumerated cases and: "2.
To controversies between two or more States." If the conOctober, 1783, and for the purpose of expediting the establishment of
the proposed confederation, authorized her delegates in Congress to
convey to the United States in Congress assembled all her territory
northwestward of the Ohio River, and, on the first day of March, 1784,
her delegates in Congress, consisting of Thomas Jefferson, Samuel
Hardy, Arthur Lee and James Monroe, and pursuant to the Act of
October 20, 1783, presented a deed to Congress ceding all the territory
of Virginia northwestward of the Ohio River to the United States,
upon certain terms, conditions and trusts therein set forth, which deed
of cession was accepted according to its terms, and directed to be recorded and enrolled among the Acts of the United States in Congress
assembled. Among the conditions set out in the deed and accepted
by Congress was the following:
"(F) That all the lands within the territory so ceded to the United
States, and not reserved for, or appropriated to, any of the beforementioned purposes, or disposed of in bounties to the officers and
soldiers of the American Army, shall be considered as a common
fund for the use and benefit of such of the United States as have become, or shall become, members of the confederation or federal
alliance of the said States, Virginia inclusive, according to their
usual respective proportions in the general charge and expenditures,
and shall be faithfully and bonafide disposed of for that purpose, and
for no other use or purpose whatsoever."
It further appears from the requisitions made by Congress upon the
thirteen States at the time of this cession that Virginia's "usual respective proportion in the general charge and expenditures" was about oneseventh of the whole; and it seems to be also conceded that the moneys
derived from the sale of the lands embraced in this cession were to be
applied to the extinguishment of the public debt incurred in the War
of the Revolution, which debt was finally paid; so that, after this part
of the trust had been met, and certain other conditions of the deed had
been performed, the residue of the trust fund should have been applied
to the reserved interests of the States set forth in Article (F) of the deed,
Virginia included, and to "no other use or purpose whatsoever." In-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

tention of West Virginia be sustained, this clause created

not "judicial power," but "judicial impotence."

The

power conferred over controversies between two or more
States was conferred in precisely the same way that power
was conferred over controversies "between citizens of
stead of doing this, however, Congress seems to have donated many
of these lands and much of the proceeds thereof to purely local purposes
not contemplated by the deed of cession, but actually contrary to its
terms.
The total acreage embraced, according to government surveys, in the
cession amounted to 170,208,613 acres, and out of this Congress seems
to have donated to local uses, contrary to the deed, 38,864,189 acres,
which, valued at $2 per acre, the price fixed by Congress when these
lands were offered for sale by the Act of May 18, 1796, would amount
to $77,728,378. In addition to this, proceeds of the sales of lands
amounting to $2,953,654.70 were likewise donated to local uses, making
an aggregate of donations contrary to the deed of $80,682,032.70.
In addition to this, their information is that the trust has not even
yet been entirely administered, but that there remains on hand undisposed of several thousand acres of these lands; and, not [now?] adding
the value of these to the value of the local donations above ascertained,
and allowing unto Virginia one-seventh thereof as her residuary interest
in the trust, there would be due and payable from the Government of
the United States to the State of Virginia the sum, at the least, of
$12,000,000, in which West Virginia should share in the same ratio
that she is compelled to contribute to the payment of Virginia's debt;
that is to say, she should receive 23/2% thereof.
The foregoing epitome of said claim is based upon information and
belief, and, in support thereof, a copy of the message of Governor Swanson of Virginia to the General Assembly of that State, and dated
January 24, 1910, is exhibited herewith as a part of this return.
WHEREFORE, said respondents, and each of them, pray that said
rule may be discharged, and the peremptory writ of mandamus denied.
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA,
[Here follow the signatures of the individual respondents.]
By
E. T. ENGLAND,
Attorney General of West Virginia.
JOHN H. HOLT,
Special Counsel for State of West Virginia.
[Verification]

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

different States" or "between a State and citizens of
another State."
We are, therefore, in the present controversy, presented
with a case in which the court proceeded because judicial
power so to do had been expressly vested in it by the
Constitution of the United States. It was necessary for
it to enter its decree in favor of the plaintiff or of the defendant. The decree which was entered was in the performance by this court of a duty imposed upon it.
Can it possibly be that nothing more was intended by
the Constitution than that this court should go through
the useless, and meaningless, work of merely making a
suggestion to the State of West Virginia that it owed to
the State of Virginia a designated amount of money, which
it would be right for it to consent to pay? Would such
a proceeding, thus ending in naught, have been in exercise
of "judicial power"?
When jurisdiction was given to this court, in controversies between citizens of different States, and in cases of
admiralty, and in controversies to which the United States
should be a party, it was not deemed necessary to prescribe the process of execution or command which would
compel performance of its decrees. With the grant of the
power went, by necessary implication, the ability to exercise it in usual methods. It may well be that this court
has no power, itself, to levy a tax. This power rests in
the legislatures of the different States. There are several
cases in which this court has said that of itself, and by
itself, it has no such power of tax assessment. What it
does possess, however, is the power to coerce the performance by the legislature of a duty necessary to be
performed, in order to effectuate its decrees.
Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, and Meriwether v.
Garrett, 102 U. S.472, relate to the judicial inability to
levy taxes directly, not questioning the power to compel
their levy in proper cases by those who are authorized

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Petitioner.

to do so. Cf. Supervisors v. United States, 4 Wall. 435;
Heine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655.
In Louisianav. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, the bondholders'
right was denied because of their inability to sue the
State. The court however said: "When a State submits
itself, without reservation, to the jurisdiction of a court
in a particular case, that jurisdiction may be used to give
full effect to what the State has by its act of submission
allowed to be done; and if the law permits coercion of the
public officers to enforce any judgment that may be
rendered, then such coercion may be employed for that
purpose."
There is no magic in the word "sovereignty," where a
State had been subjected to a decree by this court to pay
an indebtedness. The power of this court in all cases in
which it has jurisdiction over a State, is necessarily supreme. There is no practical difference in the degree of
power t6 be exercised in ordering municipal officers to
levy a tax to. pay a judgment against the municipality,
and in requiring a state legislature to make such a levy
in a case like this. The remedy which is asked for in this
case is one which is always pursued in the case of a governmental body, municipal or otherwise, which is indebted
and which fails to pay or is unable to pay under execution.
In the present case, West Virginia has no funds which
can be seized. All its property is in public use. It is,
however, a very prosperous Commonwealth, abundantly
able, by taxation, to liquidate all its indebtedness.
Its legislature is vested with an unrestricted power to
levy taxes to meet its liabilities.
This court cannot compel the exercise of discretion in a
legislature; but it can compel the performance of a duty
where such performance is necessary, in order that its
decrees may not be treated as idle words. It is the duty
of the legislature to levy taxes sufficient to meet its indebtedness. There is no pretense in any of its pleadings

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

that it cannot, by taxation, procure amply sufficient
means.
Mandamus is a proceeding ancillary to the judgment
which gives jurisdiction, and, when issued, it becomes a
substitute for the ordinary process of execution to enforce
the payment of the same. Supervisors v. United States, 4
Wall. 435; Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; City
of Galena v. Amy, 5 Wall. 705; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6
Wall. 166; Walkley v. City of Muscatine, 6 Wall. 481;
Labette County Commissioners v. Moulton, 112 U. S. 217.
It is not by the office of the person to whom the writ is
directed, but the nature of the thing to be done, that the
propriety or impropriety of a mandamus is to be determined. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, 617; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 170.
This court has taken jurisdiction of this case and jurisdiction includes the power to enforce the execution of what
is decreed. Blackstone (Cooley's ed.), p. 242; Riggs v.
Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166, 187.
As we have said, the legislature of West Virginia is
under an express constitutional obligation to provide for
the payment of the amount ascertained by the court to
be due. The obligation to do so is part of the contract
upon which the judgment is founded. See ยง 8, Art. VIII,
of the Constitution of West Virginia, which became operative and was in force when she was admitted into the
Union on June 20, 1863; and also the opinion of the court,
per Mr. Justice Holmes, in Virginiav. West Virginia, 220
U. S. 1, 30.
Should the legislature see fit to raise the money by
creating a bonded indebtedness, it may thus save the
necessity of a large immediate levy. Its primary duty,
however, is to pay the debt, and the only discretion conferred upon it is to determine whether it will pay it by
exercising one power or another. Its duty is to exercise
a power which will force payment. The issue raised by

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Respondents.

West Virginia as to the judicial power to use an ordinary
judicial remedy to enforce a judicial decree, is most
momentous. The question, however, seems to us, though
we state the fact most respectfully, one not difficult of
solution.
Mr. E. T. England, Attorney General of the State of
West Virginia, and Mr. John H. Holt, for respondents:
A writ of mandamus from the Supreme Court of the
Nation coercing the legislative department of a State to
enact a revenue law, or to lay a tax for state purposes,
would infringe upon the rights of the States expressly
reserved by the Tenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
The power of laying taxes for state purposes has not
been "delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States," and, in consequence,
this power has been "reserved to the States." It was never
contemplated that the States would lay levies for national
purposes, or that the Federal Government would lay
them for state purposes. On the contrary, we have, under
the Constitution, two distinct powers of taxation, the one
for federal, and the other for state purposes; and it is
exercised, in the one case, exclusively by the Federal
Government, and, in the other, by the State. Neither
may encroach upon the other. Otherwise, there would be
an irreconcilable conflict between an indestructible Union,
upon the one hand, and equally indestructible States,
upon the other. It is true that one State may not destroy
the Union, but it is equally true that the Union may not
destroy one State. In addition to this, the power of taxation in each government is lodged in the legislative department thereof, and may not be exercised by the judicial department of either government in any case.
What, then, is the character and the purpose of the
particular tax that it would be sought to levy by the writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondents.

246 U. S.

of mandamus prayed? Clearly it is a state tax, to be devoted exclusively to a state purpose; that is to say, to
the payment of a state debt, and is such a tax as may be
authorized, in consequence of the Tenth Amendment,
only by the state government. It involves one of the
expressly reserved sovereignties of the State, and this
express reservation may not be overturned by an antecedent implication that the power to decide necessarily embraces the power to execute. The conclusion, therefore,
would seem to be irresistible that the Federal Government cannot, through its judicial or any other department,
coerce a State in the exercise of its reserved powers by
compelling the legislature thereof to exercise such powers
contrary to its discretion, and in opposition to its will.
The existence and exercise of such a power would overturn
the Tenth Amendment, and make serious inroads upon
the fundamental rights of the States. In other words,
the provision contained in ยง 2 of Art. III, of the Constitution, giving the Supreme Court original jurisdiction "in
all cases . . . in which a State shall be a party,"
if it should have added to it, by inference or argument,
and as an incident to such jurisdiction, the power to enforce a judgment rendered in any such case through the
medium of a writ of mandamus controlling the legislative
action of a State in respect to its reserved powers, would
render the subsequently adopted Tenth Amendment
abortive.
In the case of South Dakota v. North Carolina,192 U. S.
286, Mr. Justice Brewer, in delivering the majority opinion
of the court, speaks of "the absolute inability of a court
to compel a levy of taxes by the legislature"; and the
foregoing conclusion is further strengthened by the
opinions of this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller,
in the cases of Heine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655,
and Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wail. 107.
To like effect is Meriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472, and

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Respondents.

the reasoning of this court in Kentucky v. Dennison, 24
How. 66. See also Carterv. State, 42 La. Ann. 927.
Jurisdiction to hear and determine may, and does
ordinarily, include the power to enforce (or rather the
power to issue proper writs for the enforcement of a judgment); but mandamus cannot, under the Constitution,
become a substitute for a writ of execution upon a judgment against a State. Execution may be issued upon a
judgment regularly rendered against a State, and be levied
upon any property owned by the State, and not devoted
to political or governmental purposes, and, if no such
property be found, the writ must be returned nulla bona,
and the end of the law has been reached, because, as we
have seen, the legislative department of a State may not
be coerced, under the Constitution; and there is nothing
remarkable in this situation, because frequently judgments
are rendered and executions issued thereon which are
returned nulla bona, and all legal remedies thereby exhausted. The courts can only give suitors the proper
process, original and final, and, if these fail to satisfy the
creditor's claim, there is no fault in the judiciary.' In
other words, jurisdiction does not include or imply the
collection or satisfaction of a debt, but only means the
power to hear and determine, and to render judgment
therefor and issue proper process thereon.
Cases in which subordinate agencies of a State have been
compelled by mandamus to levy taxes in accordance
with their duty under the state law throw no light on
the situation.
Such a writ for such a purpose would be contrary to the
principles and usages of law, and does not fall within the
category of final writs against a State. At common law,
Parliament never was, and could not be, coerced by the
writ of mandamus. People v. Morton, 156 N. Y. 136.
And, in this country, the same principles and usages have
always obtained. Ex parte Echois, 39 Alabama, 698;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondents.

246 U. S.

State v. Bolte, 151 Missouri, 362. Certainly such is true
with respect to the mandamus of state legislatures by
state courts, and there is no case on record where this
court has ever addressed a writ of this character to the
law-making power of a State.
We are not unmindful of the dangers and difficulties of
analogy; but, if this were the case of an individual judgment debtor, it is plain that, after a writ of execution had
gone against him and been returned nulla bona, and after
it had been ascertained, in addition thereto, that he had
no real estate out of which to satisfy the judgment, although he might have great earning capacity, no one
would contend that the exercise thereof might be compelled by the writ of mandamus. He might be able to sing
or dance, and even be bound by contract to do both, and
yet he would not be compelled to do either. Lume v.
Wagner, i De G., M. & G. 604.
It may be answered that a fund was created by mandamus for the payment of a debt in the case of Supervisorsv.
United States, 4 Wall. 435, and like cases. But it will be
observed that in each of those cases all necessary legislative
action had theretofore been had, and the proper ministerial agents appointed for the effectuation thereof; so
that nothing was left to be done except to have resort
either to the state or federal courts for a writ of mandamus
to compel the performance of a purely ministerial act;
made mandatory by the act of the only branch of govemment having any discretion in the premises.
Section 8 of Art. 8 of the West Virginia constitution of
1863 imposed no ministerial duties upon the legislature of
the State, but only judicial and legislative duties. We
come back, therefore, to the question whether or not this
court can or will interfere by mandamus to coerce the
action of a state legislature in the performance of purely
'legislative functions within its exclusive jurisdiction, and
this, it is submitted, this court will not do, for the same

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Argument for Respondents.

reason, among others, that it refused in the case of Louidianav. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, to oust the political power
of the State of Louisiana of its jurisdiction, and set the
judiciary in its place.
It should be further observed that the petition prays
for a mandamus commanding the legislature to assess
and levy a tax to provide for the payment of the judgment unless the legislature shall provide for the payment by bonds. This not only illustrates, but actually
invokes, the discretion of the legislature, and does not at
that embody all of its discretionary power when measured
by the constitutional provision invoked. The legislature
could perhaps under the state constitution, either (1) lay
a tax upon all property, real and personal, within the
State, to be collected at once, sufficient to pay the judgment, or (2) it might, under that constitution distribute
the tax over a period of years, or (3) it might resort to a
bond issue, which would be governed either by ยง8 of
Art. 8 of the constitution of 1863, or by ยง 4 of Art. 10 of
the present constitution.
If under the former, a sinking fund would have to be
provided "sufficient to pay the accruing interest and redeem the principal within thirty-four years"; that is to
say, the period of payment might be short or long, either
one year or thirty-four, within the discretion of the legislature. And if under the latter, payment would have to be
"equally distributed over a period of at least twenty
years"; that is to say, the annual contributions to the
sinking fund would have to be equal for a period of twenty
years or more, again at the discretion of the legislature.
In any event, the wide discretion of the legislature is
illustrated; and it should be further borne in mind that
that body is composed of two houses, one of which might
deem its discretionary duty to lie in one direction, and
the other in another, and yet the two must concur in order
to lay a levy or issue bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondents.

246 U. S.

Mfandamus is a discretionary writ, and to issue it in

this case would give an undue advantage to the relator,
and operate unjustly against the respondents.
The matter set up in the return of the respondents
relative to the cession of the Northwest Territory is an
appeal to this court to exercise its discretion against
the issuance of the writ herein, under all the circumstances.
If a controversy arises between two States involving
a question of boundary, this court applies to the solution
of the controversy all the machinery and flexible orders
of a court of equity, resulting in the appointment of commissioners for the purpose of ascertaining and monumenting the true boundary, followed by a final decree that extends the jurisdiction of one commonwealth to the line
so established, and excludes the jurisdiction of the other
from the territory thus covered; and may give final
effect to this decree in a thousand and one ways, the
particular way being dependent upon the character of
the judicial questions that may subsequently spring
thereout.
Again, in the event of a final judgment against a State
upon bonds issued by her and owned and held by
another State, if there be collateral to secure the payment, there is no more difficulty in subjecting it to satisfaction of the judgment than there would be in the
case of an individual, and such was the conclusion
of this court in South Dakota v. North Carolina, 192
U. S. 286.
Likewise, in the case of a mere money judgment, the
writ would be one of the ordinary writs of execution, and
would take its course as in the case of an individual; and
the exercise of judicial power involves nothing more. It
neither contemplates nor promises the unusual or the
forbidden, and incompetence may not be predicated upon
such a situation by any one.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

MIR. CHIEF JuSTiCE WHTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
A rule allowed at the instance of Virginia against West
Virginia to show cause why, in default of payment of
the judgment of this court in favor of the former State
against the latter, an order should not be entered
directing the levy of a tax by the legislature of West
Virginia to pay such judgment, and a motion by
West Virginia to dismiss the rule is the matter before us.
In the suit in which the judgment was rendered, Virginia, invoking the original jurisdiction of this court,
sought the enforcement of a contract by which it was
averred West Virginia was bound. The judgment which
resulted was for $12,393,929.50 with interest and it was
based upon three propositions specifically found to be
established: First, that when territory was carved out
of the dominion of the State of Virginia for the purpose
of constituting the area of the State of West Virginia,
the new State, coincidently with its existence, became
bound for and assumed to pay its just proportion of the
previous public debt of Virginia. Second, that this obligation of West Virginia was the subject of a contract between the two States, made with the consent of Congress,
and was incorporated into the constitution by which
West Virginia was admitted by Congress into the Union,
and therefore became a condition of such admission and
a part of the very governmental fiber of that State.
Third, that the sum of the judgment rendered constituted the equitable proportion of this debt due by West
Virginia in accordance with the obligations of the contract.
The suit was commenced in 1906 and the judgment
rendered in 1915. The various opinions expressed during
the progress of the cause will be found in the reported

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

cases cited in the margin,' in the opinion in one of which
(234 U. S. 117), a chronological statement of the incidents
of the controversy was made.
The opinions referred to will make it clear that both
States were afforded the amplest opportunity to be heard
and that all the propositions of law and fact urged were
given the most solicitous consideration. Indeed, it is
also true that in the course of the controversy, as demonstrated by the opinions cited, controlled by great consideration for the character of the parties, no technical
rules were permitted to frustrate the right of both of the
States to urge the very merits of every subject deemed
by them to be material.
And, controlled by a like purpose, before coming to
discharge our duty in the matter now before us, we have
searched the record in vain for any indication that the
assumed existence of any error committed has operated
to prevent the discharge by West Virginia of the obligations resulting from the judgment and hence has led to
the proceeding to enforce the judgment which is now before us. In saying this, however, we are not unmindful
that the record contains a suggestion of an alleged claim
of West Virginia against the United States, which was not
remotely referred to while the suit between the two States
was undetermined, the claim referred to being based on
an assumed violation of trust by the United States in the
administration of whab was left of the great domain of
the Northwest Territory-a domain as to which, before
the adoption of the Constitution of the United States,
Virginia at the request of Congress transferred to the goveminent of the Confederation all her right, title and interest in order to allay discord between the States, as
New York had previously done and as Massachusetts,
Connecticut, South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia
1206 U. S. 290; 209 U. S. 514; 220 U. S. 1; 222 U. S. 17; 231 U. S.
89; 234 U. S. 117; 238 U. S. 202; 241 U. S. 531.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

subsequently did.' It is obvious that the subject was
referred to, in connection with the duty of West Virginia to comply with the requirements of the judgment,
upon the hypothesis that if the United States owed the
claim, and if in a suit against the United States recovery
could be had, and if West Virginia received its share, it
might be used, if sufficient, for discharging the judgment,
and thus save West Virginia from resorting to other means
for so doing.
That judicial power essentially involves the right to
enforce the results of its exertion is elementary. Wayman
v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 23; Bank of the United States
v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 57; Gordon v. United States, 117
U. S. 697, 702. And that this applies to the exertion of
such power in controversies between States as the result of the exercise of original jurisdiction conferred upon
this court by the Constitution is therefore certain. The
many cases in which such controversies between States
have been decided in the exercise of original jurisdiction
make this truth manifest. 2 Nor is there room for con'Gannett, Boundaries of the United States, pp. 24-29.
2New York v. Connecticut, 4 DaU. 1, 3, 6; New Jersey v. New York,
3 Pet. 461; 5 Pet. 284; 6 Pet. 323; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 7
Pet. 651; 11 Pet. 226; 12 Pet. 657; 13 Pet. 23; 14 Pet. 210; 15 Pet.
233; 4 How. 591; Massachusetts v. Rhode Island, 12 Pet. 755; Missouri v. Iowa, 7 How. 6.60; 10 How. 1; Florida v. Georgia, 11 How.
293; 17 How. 478; Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How. 505; Virginiav. West
Virginia, 11 Wall. 39; Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395; South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479; 159
U. S. 275; 163 U. S. 520; 167 U. S. 270; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S.
359; 145 U. S. 519; Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; 151 U. S. 238; 202 U. S.
59; Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; 158 U. S. 267; Missouri v.
Iowa, 160 U. B. 688; 165 U. S. 118; Tennessee v. Virginia, 177 U. S.
501; 190 U. S. 64; Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; 200 U. S. 496;
202 U. B. 598; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46; South
Dakota v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196
U. S. 23; 197 U. S. 577; Louisianav. Mississippi,202 U. S. 1; Washing-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

tending to the contrary because, in all the cases cited,
the States against which judgments were rendered, conformably to their duty under the Constitution, voluntarily
respected and gave effect to the same. This must be unless it can be said that, because a doctrine has been universally recognized as being beyond dispute and has
hence hitherto, in every case from the foundation of the
Government, been accepted and applied, it has by that
fact alone now become a fit subject for dispute.
It is true that in one of the cited cases (South Dakota v.
North Carolina,192 U. S. 286) it was remarked that doubt
had been expressed in some instances by individual judges
as to whether the original jurisdiction conferred on the
court by the Constitution embraced the right of one State
to recover a judgment in a mere action for debt against
another. In that case, however, it is apparent that the
court did not solve such suggested doubt, as that question
was not involved in the case then before it and that subject was hence left open to be passed on in the future when
the occasion required. But the question thus left open
has no bearing upon and does not require to be considered in the case before us, first, because the power to
render the judgment as between the two States whose enforcement is now under consideration is as to them foreclosed by the fact of its rendition. And second, because,
while the controversy between the States culminated in
a decree for money and that subject was within the issues, nevertheless, the generating cause of the controversy
was the carving out of the dominion of one of the States
the area composing the other and the resulting and expressly assumed obligation of the newly created State
to pay the just proportion of the preexisting debt, an obton v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127; 214 U. S. 205; Missouri v. Kansas, 213
U. S. 78; Marylandv. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1; 217 U. S. 577;'225
U. S. 1; North Carolinav. Tennessee, 235 U. S. 1; 240 U. S. 652; Arkan-

8as v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

ligation which, as we have seen, rested in contract between the two States, consented to by Congress and expressed in substance as a condition in the Constitution by
which the new State was admitted into the Union. In
making this latter statement we do not overlook the truism
that the Union under the Constitution is essentially one
of States equal in local governmental power, which therefore excludes the conception of an inequality of such
power resulting from a condition of admission into the
Union. Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504. But this principle has no application to the question of power to enforce against a State when admitted into the Union a
contract entered into by it with another State with the
consent of Congress, since such question but concerns the
equal operation upon all the States of a limitation upon
them all imposed by the Constitution, and the equal application of the authority conferred upon Congress to
vivify and give effect by its consent to contracts entered
into between States.
Both parties admit that West Virginia is the owner of
no property not used for governmental purposes and that
therefore, from the mere issue of an execution, the judgment is not susceptible of being enforced if, under such
execution, property actually devoted to immediate governmental uses of the State may not be taken. Passing
a decision as to the latter question, all the contentions
on either side will be disposed of by considering two subjects: first, the limitations on the right to enforce inhering
in the fact that the judgment is against a State and its
enforcement against such governmental being; and second,
the appropriateness of the form of procedure applicable
for such enforcement. The solution of these subjects
may be disposed of by answering two questions which we
propose to separately state and consider.
1. May a judgment rendered against a State as a State
be enforced against it as such, including the right, to the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

tent necessary for so doing, of exerting authority over the governmental powers and agencies possessed by the State?
On this subject Virginia contends that, as the Constitution subjected the State of West Virginia to judicial
authority at the suit of the State of Virginia, the judgment which was rendered in such a suit binds and
operates upon the State of West Virginia, that is, upon
that State in a governmental capacity, including all instrumentalities and agencies of state power, and indirectly
binding the whole body of the citizenship of that State
and the property which, by the exertion of powers possessed by the State, are subject to be reached for the
purpose of meeting and discharging the state obligation.
As then, the contention proceeds, the legislature of West
Virginia possesses the power to tax and that body and
its powers are all operated upon by the judgment, the
inability to enforce by means of ordinary process of
execution gives the.right and sanctions the exertion of
the authority to enforce the judgment by compelling
the legislature to exercise its power of taxation. The
significance of the contention and its scope are aptly
illustrated by the reference in argument to the many
decided cases holding that, where a municipality is empowered to levy specified taxation to pay a particular
debt, the judicial power may enforce the levy of the tax to
meet a judgment rendered in consequence of a default
in paying the indebtedness.'
On the other hand, West Virginia insists that the
defendant as a State may not, as to its powers of government reserved to it by the Constitution, be controlled
or limited by process for the purpose of enforcing the
ISupersors v. United States, 4 Wall. 435; Von Hoffman v. City of
Ouincy, 4 Wall. 535; City of Galena v. Amy, 5 WaUl. 705; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166; Walkisy v. City of Muscatine, 6 Wall. 481;
Labette County Commissioners v. Moulton, 112 U. S. 217; County Commissionersof Cherokee County v. Wilson, 109 U. S. 621.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

payment of the judgment. Because the right for that
end is recognized, to obtain an execution against a State
and levy it upon its property, if any, not used for governmental purposes, it is argued, affords no ground for upholding the power, by compelled exercise of the taxing
authority of the State, to create a fund which may be used
when collected for paying the judgment. The rights reserved to the States by the Constitution, it is further insisted, may not be interfered with by the judicial power
merely because that power has been given authority to
adjudicate at the instance of one State a right asserted
against another, since, although the authority to enforce
the adjudication may not be denied, execution to give
effect to that authority is restrained by the provisions of
the Constitution which recognize state governmental
power.
Mark, in words a common premise-a judgment against
a State and the authority to enforce it-is the predicate
upon which is rested on the one hand the contention
as to the existence of complete and effective, and the
assertion, on the other, of limited and inefficacious power.
But it is obvious that the latter can only rest upon either
treating the word state, as used in the premise, as embracing only a misshapen or dead entity, that is, a State
stripped for the purpose of judicial power of all its governmental authority, or, if not, by destroying or dwarfing the significance of the word state as describing the
entity subject to enforcement, or both. It needs no
argument to demonstrate that both of these theories
are incompatible with and destructive of the very numerous cases decided by this court to which we have referred.
As it is certain that governmental powers reserved to
the States by the Constitution-their sovereignty-were
the efficient cause of the general rule by which they were
not subject to judicial power, that is, to be impleaded,
it must follow that, when the Constitution gave original

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

jurisdiction to this court to entertain at the instance
of one State a suit against another, it must have been
intended to modify the general rule, that is, to bring
the States and their governmental authority within
the exceptional judicial power which was created. No
other rational explanation can be given for the provision.
And the context of the Constitution, that is, the express prohibition which it contains as to the power of
the States to contract with each other except with the
consent of Congress, the limitations as to war and armies,
obviously intended to prevent any of the States from
resorting to force for the redress of any grievance real
or imaginary, all harmonize with and give force to this
conception of the operation and effect of the right to
exert, at the prayer of one State, judicial authority over
another.
But it is in substance said this view must be wrong for
two reasons: (a) because it virtually overrides the provision of the Constitution reserving to the States the
powers not delegated, by the provision making a grant
of judicial power for the purpose of disposing of controversies between States; and (b) because it gives to the
Constitution a construction incompatible with its plain
purpose, which was, while creating the nation, yet, at the
same time, to preserve the States with their governmental authority in order that state and nation might endure. Ultimately, the argument at its best but urges that
the text of the Constitution be disregarded for fear of
supposed consequences to arise from enforcing it. And
it is difficult to understand upon what ground of reason
the preservation of the rights of all the States can be predicated upon the assumption that any one State may destroy the rights of any other without any power to redress
or cure the resulting grievance. Nor, further, can it be
readily understood why it is assumed that the preservation
and perpetuation of the Constitution depend upon the ab-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

sence of aU power to preserve and give effect to the great
guarantees which safeguard the authority and preserve
the rights of all the States.
Besides, however, the manifest error of the propositions
which these considerations expose, their want of merit will
be additionally demonstrated by the history of the institutions from which the provisions of the Constitution
under review were derived, and by bringing into view the
evils which they were intended to remedy and the rights
which, it was contemplated, their adoption would secure.
Bound by a common allegiance and absolutely controlled in their exterior relations by the mother country,
the colonies before the Revolution were yet as regards
each other practically independent, that is, distinct one
from the other. Their common intercourse, more or less
frequent, the contiguity of their boundaries, their conflicting claims, in many instances, of authority over undefined and outlying territory, of necessity brought about
conflicting contentions between them. As these contentions became more and more irritating, if not seriously
acute, the necessity for the creation of some means of
settling them became more and more urgent, if physical
conflict was to be avoided. And for this reason, it is to be
assumed, it early came to pass that differences between the
colonies were taken to the Privy Council for settlement
and were there considered and passed upon during a long
period of years, the sanction afforded to the conclusions of
that body being the entire power of the realm, whether exerted through the medium of a royal decree or legislation
by Parliament. This power, it is undoubtedly true, was
principally called into play in cases of disputed boundary,
but that it was applied also to the complaint of an individual against a colony concerning the wrongful possession of property by the colony alleged to belong to him,
is not disputed. This general situation as to the disputes
between the colonies and the power to dispose of them by

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the Privy Council was stated in Rhode Island v. Massachu.
setts, 12 Pet. 657, 739, et seq., and will be found reviewed
in the authorities referred to in the margin.1
When the Revolution came and the relations with the
mother country were severed, indisputably controversies
between some of the colonies, of the greatest moment to
them, had been submitted to the Privy Council and were
undetermined. The necessity for their consideration and
solution was obviously not obscured by the struggle for
independence which ensued, for, by the Ninth of the
Articles of Confederation, an attempt to provide for them
as well as for future controversies was made. Without
going into detail it suffices to say that that article in express terms declared the Congress to be the final arbiter
of controversies between the States and provided machinery for bringing into play a tribunal which had power to
decide the same. That these powers were exerted concerning controversies between the States of the most
serious character again cannot be disputed. But the
mechanism devised for their solution proved unavailing
because of a want of power in Congress to enforce the
findings of the body charged with their solution, a deficiency of power which was generic, because resulting
from the limited authority over the States conferred by
the Articles of Confederation on Congress as to every subject. That this absence of power to control the governmental attributes of the States, for the purpose of enforcing findings concerning disputes between them, gave
rise to the most serious consequences, and brought the
States to the very verge of physical struggle, and resulted
in the shedding of blood and would, if it had not been for
the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, it
I Acts of the Privy Council, Colonial Series, vols. I to V, passim;
Snow, The Administration of Dependencies, Chap. V and passim;
Gannett, Boundaries of the United States, pp. 35, 41, 44, 49-52, 73,
88; Story on the Constitution (5th ed.), ยงยง 80, 83, 1681.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

may be reasonably assumed, have rendered nugatory the
great results of the Revolution, is known of all and will be
found stated in the authoritative works on the history of
the time.1
Throwing this light upon the constitutional provisions,
the conferring on this court of original jurisdiction over
controversies between States, the taking away of all
authority as to war and armies from the States and granting it to Congress, the prohibiting the States also from
making agreements or compacts with each pther without
the consent of Congress, at once makes clear how completely the past infirmities of power were in mind and were
provided against. This result stands out in the boldest
possible relief when it is borne in mind that, not a want
of authority in Congress to decide controversies between
States, but the absence of power in Congress to enforce
as against the governments of the States its decisions on
such subjects, was the evil that cried aloud for cure, since
it must be patent that the provisions written into the Constitution, the power which was conferred upon Congress
and the judicial power as to States created, joined with
the prohibitions placed upon the States, all combined to
unite the authority to decide with the power to enforce-a
unison which could only have arisen from contemplating
the dangers of the past and the unalterable purpose to
prevent their recurrence in the future. And, while it may
not materially add to the demonstration of the result
stated, it may serve a useful purpose to direct attention
to the probable operation of tradition upon the mind of
the framers, shown by the fact that, harmonizing with the
practice which prevailed during the colonial period in the
IFiske, The Critical Period of American History, pp. 147 et seq.;
McMaster, History of the People of the United States, vol. I, pp. 210
et seq.; Miner, History of Wyoming.
See also Story on the Constitution (5th ed.), ยงยง 1679, 1680; 131
U. S., Appendix L.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Privy Council, the original jurisdiction as conferred by
the Constitution on this court embraced not only controversies between States but between private individuals
and a State-a power which, following its recognition in
Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, was withdrawn by the
adoption of the Eleventh Amendment. The fact that in
the Convention, so far as the published debates disclose,
the provisions which we are considering were adopted without debate, it may be inferred, resulted from the necessity
of their enactment, as shown by the experience of the
colonies and by the spectre of turmoil, if not war, which,
as we have seen, had so recently arisen from the disputes between the States, a danger against the recurrence
of which there was a common purpose efficiently to provide.
And it may well be that a like mental condition accounts
for the limited expressions concerning the provisions in
question in the proceedings for the ratification of the Constitution which followed, although there are not wanting
one or two instances where they were referred to which
when rightly interpreted make manifest the purposes
which we have stated.'
The State, then, as a governmental entity, having been
subjected by-the Constitution to the judicial power under
the conditions stated, and the duty to enforce the judgment by resort to appropriate remedies being certain, even
although their exertion may operate upon the governmental powers of the State, we are brought to consider
the second question, which is:
2. What are the appropriate remedies for such enforcement?
Back of the consideration of what remedies are appropriate, whether looked at from the point of view of the
exertion of equitable power or the application of legal
remedies extraordinary in character (mandamus, etc.,) lies
I Vol. 2, Elliot's Debates, pp. 462, 490, 527; Vol. 3, pp. 571, 573;
The Federalist, No. 81.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

the question what ordinary remedies are available, and
that subject must necessarily be disposed of. As the
powers to render the judgment and to enforce it arise from
the grant in the Constitution on that subject, looked at
from a generic point of view, both are federal powers and,
comprehensively considered, are sustained by every
authority of the federal government, judicial, legislative
or executive, which may be appropriately exercised. And,
confining ourselves to a determination of what is appropriate in view of the particular judgment in this cause,
two questions naturally presenb themselves: (a) the
power of Congress to legislate to secure the enforcement
of the contract between the States; and (b) the appropriate remedies which may by the judicial power be exerted to enforce the judgment. We again consider them
separately.
(a) The power of Congress to legislate for the enforcement
of the obligation of West Virginia.
The vesting in Congress of complete power to control
agreements between States, that is, to authorize them
when deemed advisable and to refuse to sanction them
when disapproved, clearly rested upon the conception
that Congress, as the repository not only of legislative
power but of primary authority to maintain armies and
declare war, speaking for all the States and for their protection, was concerned with such agreements, and therefore was virtually endowed with the ultimate power of
final agreement which was withdrawn from state authority.)
and brought within the federal power. It follows as a
necessary implication that the power of Congress to refuse or to assent to a contract between States carried with
it the right, if the contract was assented to and hence became operative by the will of Congress, to see to its enforcement. This must be the case unless it can be said
that the duty of exacting the carrying out of a contract
is not, within the principle of McCulloch v. Maryland,

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

4 Wheat. 316, relevant to the power to determine whether
the contract should be made. But the one is so relevant
to the other as to leave no room for dispute to the contrary.
Having thus the power to provide for the execution of
the contract, it must follow that the power is plenary
and complete, limited of course, as we have just said, by
the general rule that the acts done for its exertion must
be relevant and appropriate to the power. This being
true, it further follows, as we have already seen, that, by
the very fact that the national power is paramount in the
area over which it extends, the lawful exertion of its authority by Congress to compel compliance with the obligation resulting from the contract between the two
States which it approved is not circumscribed by the
powers reserved to the States. Indeed, the argument that
the recognition of such a power in Congress is subversive
of our constitutional institutions from its mere statement
proves to the contrary, since at last it comes to insisting
that any one State may, by violating its obligations under
the Constitution, take away the rights of another and
thus destroy constitutional government. Obviously, if
it be conceded that no power obtains to enforce as against
a State its duty under the Constitution in one respect and
to prevent it from doing wrong to another State, it would
follow that the same principle would have to be applied
to wrongs done by other States, and thus the government
under the Constitution would be not an indissoluble
union of indestructible States but a government composed
of States each having the potency with impunity to wrong
or degrade another-a result which would inevitably
lead to a destruction of the union between them. Besides,
it must be apparent that to treat the power of Congress
to legislate to secure the performance by a State of its duty
under the Constitution, that is, its continued respect for
and obedience to that instrument, as coercion, comes back

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

at last to the theory that any one State may throw off and
disregard without sanction its obligation and subjection
to the Constitution. A conclusion which brings at once
to the mind the thought that to maintain the proposition
now urged by West Virginia would compel a disregard
of the very principles which led to the carving out of that
State from the territory of Virginia; in other words, to
disregard and overthrow the doctrines irrevocably settled by the great controversy of the Civil War, which in
their ultimate aspect find their consecration in the amendments to the Constitution which followed.
Nor is therb any force in the suggestion that the existence of the power in Congress to legislate for the enforcement of a contract made by a State under the circumstances here under consideration is incompatible with the
grant of original jurisdiction to this court to entertain
a suit between the States on the same subject. The two
grants in no way conflict, but codperate and co6rdinate
to a common end, that is, the obedience of a State to the
Constitution by performing the duty which that instrument exacts. And this is unaffected by the fact that
the power of Congress to exert its legislative authority,
as we have just stated it, also extends to the creation of
new remedies in addition to those provided for by ยง 14
of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 81, c. 20, now ยง 262,
Judicial Code) to meet the exigency occasioned by the
judicial duty of enforcing a judgment against a State
under the circumstances as here disclosed. We say this
because we think it is apparent that to provide by legislative action additional process relevant to the enforcement
of judicial authority is the exertion of a legislative and
not the exercise of a judicial power.
This leaves only the second aspect of the question now
under consideration.
(b) The appropriateremedies under existing legislation.
The remedy sought, as we have at the outset seen, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

an order in the nature of mandamus commanding the
levy by the legislature of West Virginia of a tax to pay
the judgment. In so far as the duty to award that remedy
is disputed merely because authority to enforce a judgment against a State may not affect state power, the
contention is adversely disposed of by what we have
said. But this does not dispose of all the contentions
between the parties on the subject, since, on the one hand,
it is insisted that the existence of a discretion in the legislature of West Virginia as to taxation precludes the possibility of issuing the order, and on the other hand it is
contended that the duty to give effect to the judgment
against the State, operating upon all state powers, excludes the legislative discretion asserted and gives the
resulting right to compel. But we are of opinion that we
should not now dispose of such question and should
also now leave undetermined the further question, which,
as the result of the inherent duty resting on us to give
effect to the judicial power exercised, we have been led
to consider on our own motion, that is, whether there is
power to direct the levy of a tax adequate to pay the
judgment and provide for its enforcement irrespective
of state agencies. We say this because, impelled now
by the consideration of the character of the parties
which has controlled us during the whole course of the
litigation, the right judicially to enforce by appropriate
proceedings as against a State and its governmental
agencies having been determined, and the constitutional
power of Congress to legislate in a two-fold way having
been also pointed out, we are fain to believe that, if
we refrain now from passing upon the questions stated,
we may be spared in the future the necessity of exerting compulsory power against one of the States of
the Union to compel it to discharge a plain duty resting
upon it under the Constitution. Indeed, irrespective of
these considerations, upon the assumption that both the re-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
565.

Opinion of the Court.

quirements of duty and the suggestions of self-interest
may fail to bring about the result stated, we are nevertheless of the opinion that we should not now finally dispose of the case, but because of the character of the parties
and the nature of the controversy-a contract approved
by Congress and subject to be by it enforced-we should
reserve further action in order that full opportunity may
be afforded to Congress to exercise the power which it
undoubtedly possesses.
Giving effect to this view, accepting the things which
are irrevocably foreclosed-briefly stated, the judgment
against the State operating upon it in all its governmental powers and the duty to enforce it viewed in that aspect-, our conclusion is that the case should be restored
to the docket for further argument at the next term after
the February recess. Such argument will embrace the
three questions left open: 1. The right under the conditions previously stated to award the mandamus prayed
for; 2. If not, the power and duty to direct the levy of
a tax as stated; 3. If means for doing so be found to exist,
the right, if necessary, to apply such other and appropriate equitable remedy, by dealing with the funds or
taxable property of West Virginia or the rights of that
State, as may secure an execution of the judgment. In
saying this, however, to the end that, if, on such future
hearing provided for, the conclusion should be that any
of the processes stated are susceptible of being lawfully
applied (repeating that we do not now decide such
questions), occasion for a further delay may not exist,
we reserve the right, if deemed advisable, at a day hereafter before the end of the term or at the next term before
the period fixed for the hearing, to appoint a master for
the purpose of examining and reporting concerning the
amount and method of taxation essential to be put into
effect, whether by way of order to the state legislature or direct action, to secure the full execution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

judgment, as well as concerning the means otherwise
exiting in the State of West Virginia, if any, which, by
the exercise of the equitable powers in the discharge of
the duty to enforce payment, may be available for that
purpose.
And it is so ordered.

WAITE ET AL., AS GENERAL APPRAISERS, DESIGNATED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY AS THE BOARD OF TEA APPEALS, v. MACY
ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS COPARTNERS
UNDER THE NAME OF CARTER, MACY &
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 255. Argued March 28,1918.-Decided April 22, 1918.
A transgression of its statutory power by an administrative board is
subject to judicial restraint, although guised as a discretionary decision within its jurisdiction.
In testing the right of injunction against administrative officers, the
presumption that they will follow the law, though set up" in their
answer, cannot be indulged where an intention to obey an illegal
regulation of their superior is not directly disclaimed by them and
is admitted by their counsel.
The only grounds recognized by the Act of March 2, 1897, c. 358, 29
Stat. 604, as amended, c. 170, 35 Stat. 163, for excluding tea from
import, are inferiority to the standard in purity, quality and fitness
for consumption; and, where the tea offered is otherwise superior to
the standard in value and purity, the fact that it contains a minute
and innocuous quantity of coloring matter not found in the sample
will not justify shutting it out, notwithstanding a regulation of the
Secretary of the Treasury, purporting to be based on the stathte,
declares the presence of any coloring matter an absolute ground for
exclusion.

