PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 79
69.

Syllabus.

Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 397, 403, 404; GreatNorthern Ry. Co. v. Hower, 236 U. S. 702.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that Mrs.
Krueger did not sustain the burden of showing that she
was a bona fide purchaser for value, and under the circumstances shown she had constructive notice of the manner
in which the land had been procured from the United
States. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in holding that the Government was entitled to a cancellation
of the patent.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE McREmoLDs took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO COMPANY, LIMITED,
AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY.

v.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 124. Argued January 4, 7, 1918.-Deeided March 4, 1918.
As applied to a corporation defendant, the provision of the Sherman
Act of 1890, ยง 7, allowing actions for treble damages to be brought in
the district in which the defendant "resides or is found," means that
the corporation must be present in the district, by its officers or
agents, carrying on its business.
Upon consideration of the evidence, heZd, that the defendant corporation of New Jersey undertook in good faith to carry out a decree
of dissolution made by the Circuit Court in New York, and to divest
itself of a former branch business in Louisiana; and that subsequent
service of process, upon the former manager of that business, in
Louisiana, was ineffectual to bind the corporation.
Defendant's revocation of its designation of a former manager of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

former branch business in Louisiana, as its agent upon whom process
might be served under the law of that State, was effectual, notwithstanding the instrument of revocation, attested under its seal and
filed with the Louisiana Secretary of State, was executed by a vice
president of the corporation, without formal sanction by the board
of directors; it appearing that the vice president acted with the
knowledge and consent of the corporation in carrying out the decree
of dissolution.
What constitutes such a doing of business as will subject a corporation
to service of process depends upon the facts in each case. The general rule is that the business must be of a nature warranting the inference that the corporation has subjected itself to the local jurisdiction, and is, by its duly authorized officers or agents, present within
the State or district where service is attempted.
The fact that a foreign corporation owns stock in local, subsidiary
companies, does not bring it within a State for the purpose of service
of process upon it; nor does the practice of advertising its wares in
the State and sending into it its agents, who, without authority to
make sales, to collect money or extend credit, merely solicit orders
of the retail trade to be turned over to local jobbers, to whom the
corporation sells its good4 a-id who charge the retailers therefor.
The Louisiana Act of 1904 (Laws 1904, Act No. 54, p. 133), as amended
in 1908 (Laws 1908, Act No. 284, p. 423), providing for service of
process on the Secretary of State of Louisiana, is not applicable, as
construed by the State Supreme Court, to foreign corporations which
have withdrawn from the State and ceased to do business there at
the time of service, at in this case.
Affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin T. Merrick, with whom Mr. Ralph J.
Schwarz
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
f Jurisdiction
of the United States courts usually depends
upon whether the defendant is an inhabitant or resident of
the district where the suit is brought. When, therefore,
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act provides (ยง7) that a defendant violating that act may be served where "found," it
is apparent, we submit, that whether the defendant resided in or inhabited the district, or even whether it had

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 81
79.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

an agent in the district, is not the test. The test would
seem to be whether the defendant violating this law may,
by fair and reasonable process, be located and reached
in the State and district where the injury was committed,
without regard to the presence of an agent in the State,
designated as such. Louisiana Act No. 149 of 1890, provides that whenever an outside corporation shall do any
business whatever in the State without designating an
agent upon whom process may be served, it may be sued
upon any cause of action in the parish where the right or
cause of action arose, and service of process may be made
upon the person or persons, firm or company, acting or
transacting such business for such corporation. With
this act in force, defendant company entered the State,
actually designated an agent therein and actually did
business therein for many years. It thus came into the
State accepting the terms of this statute. Mr. Irby and
the Irby Branch of the American Tobacco Company
were the ones, concededly, who transacted the business for,
and acted for, the company in Louisiana, under the
terms of the foregoing statute, and were so acting when the
cause of action herein sued upon arose. Hence, we submit, that the defendant may be "found" within the State,
by service upon the one thus transacting its business.
American Cotton Co. v. Beasley, 116 Fed. Rep. 256. This
is constitutional. St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 356.
The business was not purely interstate in character;
and whether such or not, the fact that it was actually
being done in Louisiana makes the company subject to
process and makes it "found" within the State, within
the meaning of the Sherman Law. While the State might
not be able to prevent such business or might not be able
to burden it with licenses or taxation, because of the Constitution of the United States, none the less, such acts constitute doing business within the State and subject the
defendant to service within the State as being "found"

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

therein. InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91,
105; InternationalHarvester 'Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
579, 585.
The so-called revocation of the power of attorney is
merely a statement by a vice president and an assistant
secretary that the American Tobacco Company has revoked authority of its resident agent and that the corporation has caused its seal and name to be subscribed.
The corporation never considered the revocation. We
think it will scarcely be denied that the action of the
board of directors in making the appointment cannot be
set aside by a vice president of the company without some
evidence better than has been shown in the record that
the vice president had the power to annul a formal resolution of the board of directors. Under the laws of Louisiana, as under general law, there was no authority in a
vice president to revoke the power of attorney issued under
the authority of the board of directors. Even a president's power is not thus conceded by the authorities.
Jackson Brewing Co. v. Canton, 118 Louisiana, 826,
827.
The constitution and law of Louisiana required the
appointment as a condition precedent to the right to do
business, with the object of gaining jurisdiction over corporations so doing. This jurisdiction cannot be defeated
and frustrated as to business done under the license to
enter the State by withdrawing the power of attorney.
Michael v. Mutual Ins. Co., 10 La. Ann. 738; Davis v.
Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 149; Mutual
Reserve Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 148; Mutual Ins. Co. v.
Spratley, 172 U. S. 617; Hunter v. Mutual Reserve Life
Ins. Co., 218 U. S. 587.
Mr. JuniusParkerand Mr. George Denegre, with whom
Mr. Victor Leovy and Mr. Henry H. Chaffe were on the
brief, for defendant in error.

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 83
79.

Opinion of the Court.
MR. Juscnc

DAY*delivered the opinion of the court.

On January 4, 1912, the People's Tobacco Company,
Limited, began suit against the American Tobacco Company in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana to recover treble damages
under ยง 7 of the Sherman Act of 1890. On January 5,
1912, service of process was made upon W. R. Irby as
manager of the company. On January 16, 1912, the company filed exceptions to the service on the ground that
it was a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of New Jersey; that it was not found within the Eastern
District of Louisiana or in the State of Louisiana, and
was not engaged in business there, nor had it an agent
therein; that W. R. Irby, upon whom service had been
attempted, was not an officer, agent, or employee of the
defendant, the American Tobacco Company, or authorized
to accept service of process upon it at that time. On
January 25, 1912, service was made upon the Assistant
Secretary of State of Louisiana. Exceptions to that service upon practically the same grounds were filed by the
defendant company. A further service was undertaken
on February 2,1914, on the Secretary of State of Louisiana
and like exceptions were filed by the defendant company
to that service.
Testimony was taken and upon hearing the District
Court held that:
1. W. R. Irby was not the agent of the company at the
time of the attempted service, and, therefore, the service
upon him did not bring the company into court;
2. That the American Tobacco Company was not doing business in Louisiana at the time of the attempted
service;
3. That the attempted service upon the Secretary of
State of Louisiana did not bring the defendant corporation into court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Section 7 of the Sherman Act provides that suils of the
character of the one now under consideration may be
brought in the district in which the defendant "resides
or is found." When applied to a corporation this requirement is the equivalent of saying that it must be present
in the district by its officers and agents carrying on the
business of the corporation. In this way only can a corporation be said to be "found" within the district. In
that manner it may manifest its submission to local jurisdiction and become amenable to local process.
The testimony shows that up to November 30, 1911,
the American Tobacco Company had a factory in New
Orleans for the manufacture of tobacco and cigarettes
known as the W. R. Irby Branch of the American Tobacco
Company, of which W. R. Irby was manager. Under
the law of the State it had filed in the office of the Secretary of State an appointment of W. R. Irby as agent,
upon whom service of process might be made.
On November 16, 1911, the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York made
a decree dissolving the American Tobacco Company.
Among other things that decree provided that the American Tobacco Company should convey its W. R. Irby
.Branch to a company to be formed and known as the
Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company. Conveyances were
made to carry out this purpose.
The American Tobacco Company by an instrument
executed by Mr. Hill, its vice president, revoked the authority of W. R. Irby as its resident agent, and filed the
revocation of authority in the office of the Secretary of
State of Louisiana on December 15, 1911. W. R. Irby
testified that thereafter he was the manager of the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company, and that he had no
connection whatsoever with the American Tobacco Company, nor had he drawn any salary from that company
since December 1, 1911.

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 85
79.

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that the record discloses some instances in
which collections were made upon bills in the name of the
Irby Branch of the American Tobacco Company after
the revocation of Mr. Irby's authority as its agent. Most
of them were stamped across the face, Liggett and Myers
Tobacco Company.
There remained on hand with the Irby Branch at the
time of the dissolution a quantity of cigarette paper which
was continued to be delivered to purchasers by the employees of the Irby Branch of the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company upon orders received from the, American
Tobacco Company, and for its benefit and upon its account. This practically continued until the stock was
exhausted, which the testimony shows was within a
month after the dissolution, and before the attempted
service of process in this case.
There were lodged in the custom house in New Orleans
powers of attorney of the American Tobacco Company
giving authority to those named therein to do what was
necessary to make out export papers on behalf of the company. These powers of attorney do not appear to have
been revoked, and existed after the service of process.
The defendant company issued circulars subsequent to
the .time it was served with process in this suit, it also advertised in the New Orleans newspapers.
A consideration of all the testimony leads us to the conclusion that the American Tobacco Company undertook
in good faith to carry out the decree of dissolution, and
to take that company out of business in the State of
Louisiana. It is true, as found by the District Court,
that at the time of the service, and thereafter, the American Tobacco Company was selling goods in Louisiana
to jobbers, and sending its drummers into that .State to
solicit orders of the retail trade, to be turned over to the
jobbers, the charges being made by the jobbers to the retailers. It further appears that these agents were not

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

domiciled in the State, and did not have the right or authority to make sales on account of the defendant company, collect money, or extend credit for it.

It also ap-

pears that the American Tobacco Company owned stock
in other companies which owned stock in companies carrying on the tobacco business in the State of Louisiana.
With these facts in mind we come to a consideration of
the proper disposition of the case.

We agree with the District Court that Irby at the time
of the attempted service upon him was not the authorized agent, of the American Tobacco Company. On December 1, 1911, the American Tobacco Company conveyed
its Irby Branch to the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company. On the same day W. R. Irby, who had been the
designated agent of the defendant company, resigned as a
director of the American Tobacco Company, and ceased to
remain in its employment. On December 15, 1911, the
power of attorney was revoked, as we have hereinbefore
stated, by the company filing an instrument of revocation
in the office of the Secretary of State of Louisiana; it is
true that the revocation was by one of the vice presidents
of the company and was attested by the seal of the corporation. But we are not impressed with the argument
that this revocation was ineffectual because not sanctioned by formal action of the board of directors of the
company. The vice president seems to have had authority in the matter. Apparently he acted with the knowledge and acquiescence of the corporation, and was carrying into effect the decree of dissolution.
Upon the broader question, we agree with the District
Court that the American Tobacco Company at the time
of the attempted service was not doing business within
the State of Louisiana. The question as to what constitutes the doing of business in such wise as to make the
corporation subject to service of process has been frequently discussed in the opinions of this court, and we

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 87
79.

Opinion of the Court.

shall enter upon no amplification of what has been said.
Each case depends upon its own facts. The general rule
deducible from all our decisions is that the business must
be of such nature and character as to warrant the inference that the corporation has subjected itself to the local
jurisdiction, and is by its duly authorized officers or
agents present within the State or district where service
is attempted. Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218, 226.
The fact that the company owned stock in the local
subsidiary companies did not bring it into the State in
the sense of transacting its own business there. Peterson
v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364;
Philadelphia& Reading Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264,
268. As to the continued practice of advertising its
wares in Louisiana, and sending its soliciting agents into
that State, as above detailed, the agents having no authority beyond solicitation, we think the previous decisions of this court have settled the law to be that such
practices did not amount to that doing of business which
subjects the corporation to the local jurisdiction for the
purpose of service of process upon it. Green v. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 530; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264,
268.
The plaintiff in error relies upon International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579, but in that case the
facts disclosed that there wM not only a continuous
course of business in the'solicitation of orders within the
State, but there was also authority upon the part of such
agents to receive payment in money, checks and drafts
on behalf of the company, and to take notes payable and
collectible at banks in Kentucky; these things, taken together, we held amounted to doing business within the
State of Kentucky in such manner as to make the Har-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

vester Company amenable to the process of the courts of
that State.
As to the attempted service of process upon the Secretary of State of Louisiana under the Louisiana Act of
1904 [Laws 1904, Act No. 54, p. 1331, as amended 1908,
[Laws 1908, Act No. 284, p. 4231, we understand the act,
as construed by the State Supreme Court, is not applicable to foreign corporations not present within the State
and doing business therein at the time of the service, and
having as in this case withdrawn from the State and
ceased to do business there. Gouner v. Missouri Valley
Bridge & Iron Co., 123 Louisiana, 964.
We reach the conclusion that the District Court did
not err in maintaining the exceptions filed by the defendant company and in quashing the attempted service made
upon it.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTICE McREyxoLDs took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

BRADER v. JAMES, FORMERLY REEVES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKWI OMA.
No. 126.

Argued January 7, 8, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Under the Supplemental Agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, a homestead allotment
of a full-blood Choctaw became free from the restrictions imposed
by ยง 12 at the death of the allottee, and the heir of the allottee,
though a full-blood, might alienate the land without approval of the

