OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

considerations of international comity and expediency.
permit the validity of the acts of one sovereign State
to be reexamined and perhaps condemned by the courts
of another would very certainly "imperil the amicable
relations between governments and vex the peace of nations.
It is not necessary to consider, as the New Jersey court
did, the validity of the levy of the contribution made by
the Mexican commanding general, under rules of international law applicable to the situation, since the subject
is not open to reexamination by this or any other American court.
The remedy of the former owner, or of the purchaser
from him, of the property in controversy, if either has any
remedy, must be found in the courts of Mexico or through
the diplomatic agencies of the political department of
our Government. The judgments of the Court of Errors
aniid -Appeals of New Jersey must be
Affirmed.

rTo

RICAUD ET AL. v. AMERICAN METAL COMPANY,
LIMITED.
CERTIFICATE FROM T 2 CIRCUIr COUT OF APPEALS FOR
TE FIrTm CIRCUIT.
No. 119.

Submitted January 3, 1918.-Decided March 11, 1918.

The requirement that a certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals
shall contain a "proper statement of the facts on which the questions
and propositions of law arise," (Rule 37) is not complied with by a

statement of what is "alleged and denied" by the parties in their
pleadings, supplemented by a statement that there was evidence
tending to establish the facts as claimed by each party; nor should
the questions be based upon an "assumed" statement of facts.

RICAUD v. AMERICAN METAL CO.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

Facts supplied by judicial notice may enable the court to answer questions from the Court of Appeals, where otherwise the insuciency of
the certificate would necessitate its return to that court.
A bill in the District Court for the Western District of Texas, besides
showing diverse citizenship, alleged that certain personal property
of the plaintiff had been forcibly taken from its possession in Mexico
by unknown persons, was consigned to one of the defendants at
El Paso, and was in a bonded warehouse there in the possession of
another defendant, as Collector of Customs, who, unless restrained as
prayed, would deliver it to the other defendants. Held, that the
case, as thus stated, was within the jurisdiction of the District Court,
and that the facts, not mentioned in the bill, that the property had
been seized, condemned and sold for war purposes by the Constitutionalist forces in revolution in Mexico, acting under authority of
General Carranza, whose government was later recognized by the
United States, did not deprive the courts of jurisdiction to adjudicate
upon the validity of the title thus acquired, though in exercising the
jurisdiction the action of the Mexican authorities must necessarily
be accepted as a rule of decision. Oetjen v. CentraZ Leather Co.,
ante, 297.
The fact that property seized and sold by the authorities of a foreign
government belonged to an American citizen, not residing in the
foreign country at the time, does not empower a court of this country
to reexamine and modify their action.

Tnx case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. E. Hunter and Mr. R. B. Redic for Ricaud et al.
Mr. R. C. Walshe, Mr. U. S. Goen, Mr. Julius Goldman
and Mr. JulianB. Beaty for American Metal Co., Ltd.
Mr. CharlesD. Hayt, Mr. Clyde C. Dawson and Mr. Fred
R. Wright, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curi.
MR. JusTiCE CAIxEi delivered the opinion of the court.
In this suit in equity, commenced in the United States
District Court for the Western District of Texas, the plaintiff in that court claims to be the owner of and entitled to a
large consignment of lead bullion held in bond by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Collector of Customs at El Paso, Texas. An injunction
was granted restraining the Collector until further order
from delivering the bullion to either of the other defendants.
Barlow, one of the defendants in the District Court,
claims to be the owner of the property by purchase from
the defendant Ricaud, who it is claimed purchased it
from General Pereyra, who in the year 1913 was the commander of a brigade- of the Constitutionalist Army of
Mexico of which Venustiano Carranza was then First
Chief.
It is not seriously disputed that General Pereyra, in his
capacity as a commanding officer, in September, 1913,
demanded this bullion from the Penoles Mining Company, a Mexican corporation doing business at Bermejillo,
Mexico; that when it was delivered to him he gave a
receipt which contains a promise to pay for it "on the
triumph of the revolution or the establishment of a legal
government"; that Pereyra sold the bullion to defendant
Ricaud, who sold it to the defendant Barlow; that the
proceeds of the sale were devoted to the purchase of arms,
ammunition, food and clothing for Pereyra's troops, and
that Pereyra in the transaction represented and acted for
the Government of General Carranza, which has since
been recognized by the United States Government as the
de jure Government of Mexico.
The plaintiff, appellee here, claims to have purchased
the bullion from the Penoles, Mining Company in June,
1913.
The District Court rendered a decree in favor of the
plaintiff from which defendants appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and that court
certifies three questions as to which it desires the instruction of this court.
The sufficiency of the certificate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is challenged at the threshold.

RICAUD v. AMERICAN METAL CO.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

There is no denying that there is much of merit in the
objection to the form of this certificate, including the
form of the questions, for the reason that the certificate,
instead of containing a "proper statement of the facts on
which the questions and propositions of law arise," as is
required by Rule 37 of this court, contains a statement of
what is "alleged and denied" by the parties plaintiff and
defendant in their pleadings, with the additional statement that there was evidence "tending to establish the
facts as claimed by each party," but without any finding
whatever as to what the eyidence showed the facts to be,
and the first question, on which the other two depend,
is in terms based entirely on an "assumed" statement of
facts.
If this certificate had not been supplemented by the
recognition by the United States Government of the
Government of Carranza, first as the de facto, and later
as the de jure Government of Mexico, of which facts this
court will take judicial notice, (Jones v. United States,
137 13. S. 202; Underhill v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250)
it would be our duty to declare the certificate insufficient
and to return it to the Circuit Court of Appeals without
answering the questions. Cincinnati,Hamilton & Dayton
R. R. Co. v. McKeen, 149 U. S. 259; Graverv. Faurot, 162
U. S. 435; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60; Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 422.
But this recognition of the government under which
General Pereyra was acting, as the legitimate Government of Mexico, makes the answers to the questions so
certain and its effect upon the case is so clear, that, for
the purpose of making an end of the litigation, we will
proceed to answer the questions.
The first question is:
"I. Assuming that the bullion in suit was seized, condemned, and sold for war supplies by the Constitutionalist
forces in revolution in Mexico, acting under authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

from General Carranza, claiming to be the Provisional
President of the Republic of Mexico, had the District
Court of the Western District of Texas, into which the
said bullion had been imported from Mexico, jurisdiction
to try and adjudge as to the validity of the title acquired
by and through the.said seizure, appropriation, and sale
by the Carranza forces as against an American citizen
claiming ownership of the said bullion prior to its
seizure?"
There can be no doubt that the required diversity of
citizenship to give the District Court jurisdiction of the
case was stated in the petition for injunction. The certificate shows that it was alleged in the petition that the
bullion was the property of the plaintiff and that it had
been forcibly taken from its possession in Mexico by unknown persons but without any reference being made to a
state of war prevailing therein at the time; that it was
consigned to defendant Barlow at El Paso, Texas, and
was in a bonded warehouse in the possession of the defendant Cobb, as Collector of Customs, who, unless restrained by the court, would deliver it to the other defendants.
This form of petition brought the case within the jurisdiction of the District Court (United States v. Arredondo,
6 Pet. 691, 709; (rignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319;
Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 632), and the
question is, whether the circumstance that the bullion
was seized, condemned and sold under the conditions
stated in the question deprived the court of jurisdiction
to go forward and adjudge as to the validity of the title
acquired by the seizure and sale by the Carranza forces.
The answer which should be given to this question has
been rendered not doubtful by the fact that, as we have
said, the revolution inaugurated by General Carranza
against General Huerta proved successful and the government established by him has been recognized by the

RICAUD v. AMERICAN METAL CO.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

political department of our Government as the de facto
and later as the de jure Government of Mexico, which
decision binds the judges as well as all other officers and
citizens of the Government. United States v. Palmer, 3
Wheat. 610; In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472; Jones v. United
States, 137 U. S. 202. This recognition is retroactive in
effect and validates all the actions of the Carranza Government from the commencement of its existence (Wil/iams
v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176, 186; Underhill v. Hernandez, 168
U. S. 250, 253), and the action of General Pereyra complained of must therefore be regarded as the action, in
time of civil war, of a duly commissioned general of the
legitimate Government of Mexico.
It is settled that the courts will take judicial notice of
such recognition, as we have here of the Carranza Government, by the political department of our Government
(Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202), and that the courts
of one independent government will not sit in judgment
on the validity of the acts of another done within its own
territory (Underhill v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250, 253;
American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347;
Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., ante, 297). This last rule,
however, does not deprive the courts of jurisdiction once
acquired over a case. It requires only that, when it is
made to appear that the foreign government has acted in
a given way on the subject-matter of the litigation, the
details of such action or the merit of the result cannot be
questioned but must be accepted by our courts as a rule
for their decision. To accept a ruling authority and to
decide accordingly is not a surrender or abandonment of
jurisdiction but is an exercise of it. It results that the
title to the property in this case must be determined by
the result of the action taken by the military authorities
of Mexico and that giving effect to this rule is an exercise
of jurisdiction which requires that the first question be
answered in the affirmative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The second question reads:
"II. If [the first question is answered in the affirmativeJ
does the subsequent recognition by the United States
Government of Carranza as the legitimate President of
the Republic of Mexico and his government as the only
legitimate government of the Republic of Mexico deprive
this court of jurisdiction on this appeal to decide and
adjudge the case on its merits?"
Our answer to the first requires a negative answer to
this second question.
The third question reads:
"III. If question two is answered in the negative, did
the seizure, condemnation, and sale of the bullion in the
manner and for the purposes stated to be assumed in
question one have the effect of divesting the title to or
ownership of it of a certain citizen of the United States
of America not in or a resident of Mexico when such seizure
and condemnation occurred?"
The answer to this question must be in the affirmative
for the reasons given and upon the authorities cited in
the opinion recently announced in cases Nos. 268 and 269,
Oetjen v. CentralLeather Co. The fact that the title to the
property in controversy may have been in an American
citizen, who was not in or a resident of Mexico at the time
it was seized for military purposes by the legitimate
Government of Mexico, does not affect the rule of law that
the act within its owli boundaries of one sovereign State
cannot become the subject of rexamination and modification in the courts of another. Such action, when shown to
have been taken, becomes, as we have said, a rule of decision for the courts of this country. Whatever rights such
an American citizen may have can be asserted only through
the courts of Mexico or through the political departments
of our Government. The first and third questions will be
answered in the affirmative and the second in the negative.
And it is so ordered.

