KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
63.

Syllabus.

action to be on the assigned tax bills, and that if Walsh
might have maintained a suit because of the wrongful
taking of the property as alleged, nothing was assigned
to the plaintiff in error but the tax bills and the lien
thereof; and that the plaintiff could not-maintain this
action as one in tort because it did not appear to be the
assignee of such right of action if one existed. It therefore follows that the Missouri Supreme Court rested its
decision upon a ground of general law adequate to support it, independently of the decision upon alleged violation of federal right under the Fourteenth Amendment.
In that situation it is well settled that a case from a state
court is not reviewable here. Wood v. Chesborough, 228
U. S. 672; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk & Ocean
View Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S.
146.
It follows that the writ of error must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, and it is
So ordered.

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 111. Submitted December 20, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Land, part of an odd-numbered section within the primary limits,
but covered by a valid preEmption filing at the date of the definite
location of the right of way, was excepted from the grant made to
the Denver Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company by the Acts of
July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489; and March 3, 1869, c. 127, 15 Stat.
324. Kansas PacificBy. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629.
Upon the facts as found, held, that one who under a deed of the Denver
Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company and through mesne con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

246 U. S.

veyances came into, and retained, possession of a parcel of land,
which, because of a pregmption filing, was excepted from the grant
made to that company (supra), was in a position to acquire full title
by purchase under the Adjustment Act of March 3,1887, c. 376, 24
Stat. 556, § 5; and the regulations of the Land Department relative
thereto.
One who purchases undera receiver's receipt, issued upon a soldiers'
additional homestead entry, land, which is in the actual possession of
another claiming from another source under recorded deeds, is constructively notified by such possession and records of that other's
claim and of that other's rights as so revealed; and also-through
the receiver's receipt-of the origin of his own title and therein of
the fact that it was procured by means of affidavits falsely stating
that the land was unoccupied, unimproved and unappropriated.
The defense of bona fide purchase is affirmative; the burden of establishing it rests upon the party who makes it, in a suit by the United
States to cancel a patent for fraud.
228 Fed. Rep. 97, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William V. Hodges and Mr. Richard B. Scandrett,
Jr., for appellant.
A purchaser under a patent is not required to go behind
the patent. United States v. Laam, 149 Fed. Rep. 581.
Mrs. Krueger was not bound to hunt for grounds of doubt,
and in order to set the patent aside the United States
must charge her with notice of the original fraud. United
States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 668;
United States v. Clark, 200 U. S. 601, 607, 609. If Benson
or his tenants were actually in possession of the land at the
time of the purchase by Mrs. Krueger, it may be conceded
that she is chargeable with notice of such possession, but
there is nothing in that circumstance or any iquiry
which might be induced thereby, which would give her
notice of the alleged fraud upon the United States. Such
possession was only notice to Mrs. Krueger of the extent
and character of the claim of the possessor himself, not
of defects in the title of her predecessor in title. Suiter

KRUEGER v. UINITED STATES.
69.

Argument for Appellant.

v. Turner, 10 Iowa, 517, 524; 2 Minor, Real Property,
§ 1413; 2 Pomeroy Eq. Jur., § 615. This rule of law implying notice from an adverse possession was invented
in order to protect tenants of a grantor who conveyed
property without actually informing the grantees of
the leases, or to protect owners of property who had
failed to register their deeds. In the case of possession
adverse to a grantor, such possession only charges the
grantee with knowledge similar to that which he would
have had if the adverse possessor had not neglected to
register his title. Any right which Benson had was certainly not derived through or from Mrs. Krueger's grantor,
and it is submitted that actual notice of Benson's title is of
no materiality, for the simple reason that he had no valid
title to record. Burt v. Baldwin, 8 Nebraska, 487, 494;
Roll v. Rea, 50 N. J. L. 264; Munn v. Bergess, 70 Illinois,
604, 614, 615; Lloyds v. Karnes, 45 Illinois, 62, 72. She
was justified in assuming that the duly executed instrument of the United States was valid, and, since she was
an innocent purchaser of such patent for a valuable consideration, the voidable title in the hands of her predecessors becomes absolute in her. Perkins v. Hays, 1
Cooke (Tenn.), 163, 168, 174; Phillips v. Buchanan Lumber Co., 151 N. Car. 519. The most notice that knowledge
of any possession by Benson could impute to Mrs. Krueger
would be of the facts or circumstances that she might
have learned by making inquiry of Benson. Losey v.
Simpson, 11 N. J. Eq. 246, 255; Runyan . Snyder, 45
Colorado, 156, 162. So far as she could have learned by
inquiry, he was a trespasser and had no rights whatever,
and there is no evidence to show that Benson knew that
a fraudulent affidavit had been made at the time Mrs.
Krueger purchased the land.
The matter to be determined is whether the legal title
should remain in Mrs. Krueger, or the patent be canceled
and title restored to the United States-not whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

246 U. S.

legal title should go to a third party. To accomplish this
result, the Government must establish the fraud by clear
and convincing proof. It must be conceded that she had
no actual knowledge of the fraud, and there is nothing
in the record to indicate that the most diligent inquiries
made to Benson himself would have divulged the fact that
the patent had been procured by means of false affidavits.
Since there is nothing in the record to show that Langston, the purchaser from the railroad company, was a
citizen of the United States, or had declared his intention
to become such, or was a bona fide purchaser, as provided
by § 5 of the Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, the record
of Benson's title and his occupancy did not charge Mrs.
Krueger with constructive notice of any right of Benson,
because the absence of those circumstances prevents
Benson from having any valid interest in the said land.
Ramsey v. Tacoma Land Co., 196 U. S. 360, 362; Miller
v. Tacoma Land Co., 29 L. D. 633, 634; Gertgens v.
O'Connor, 191 U. S. 237, 241. It is not disputed that
the deed from the railroad to Langston was made on
April 5, 1871, at a time when the Woodward filing
was valid, and at that time the railroad had no right,
title or interest in the land. To be a bona fide purchaser
within the purview of the act, it is necessary that the purchaser acquire the lands at a time when they are "public
lands in the statutory sense and free from individual or
other claims." United States v. Winona R. R. Co., 165
U. S. 463, 481.
The original affidavits to the effect that the land was not
already occupied in reliance upon which the patent was
issued were not false, because a mere trespasser is not an
"adverse occupant" within the meaning of the Land
Office requirement.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States.

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
69.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit reversing
a decree of the District Court of Colorado which dismissed
a bill of complaint filed by the United States against
Emma T. Krueger for the cancellation of a certain patent
upon public lands in Colorado.
The Government alleged in its bill that the land, eighty
acres, patented to William E. Moses June 6, 1910, upon a
soldiers' additional homestead entry (Rev. Stats., §§ 2306,
2307; 28 Stat. 397), had been secured by means of false
affidavits, one by the entryman, Moses, who had made
oath that the land was unoccupied, unimproved, and
unappropriated by any person other than himself; the
other by John A. McIntyre that the land was not in
any manner occupied adversely to the selector, whereas
in truth and in fact the land had been for several years
previously in the open and notorious possession of one
P. C. Benson under title deraigned from the Denver Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company under a land grant
of Congress made July 1, 1862. It was also charged that
the. fraud was perpetrated by agreement between Moses,
the entryman, and one C. M. Krueger, the husband of
the defendant, Emma T. Krueger. It is charged in the
bill that Mrs. Krueger took the conveyance through
Moses and her husband with notice of the fraud and without consideration.
Upon issue joined, and the allegati6n of the answer
that the defendant was a purchaser in good faith without notice of any fraud, the District Court found that the
patent had been obtained by fraud, but that Mrs. Krueger
was a bona fide purchaser without notice, and as such entitled to hold the land. The Court of Appeals took the
same view of the evidence as to the fraudulent manner
in which the land was acquired, and reached the conclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

,sion that the patent should be set aside for fraud committed against the United States unless the defendant had
shown that she was an innocent purchaser without notice.
With some hesitation the Circuit Court of Appeals
reached the conclusion that Mrs. Krueger at the time
she purchased the land must be held to have had constructive notice of facts which, if investigated, would have
led her to the knowledge of the fraud, and that she was
not entitled as a bona fide purchaser to hold the land as
against the Government. (228 Fed. Rep. 97.)
It was stipulated by the parties for the purposes of the
trial as follows:
"By Act of Congress of July 2, [1] 1862 (12 Stat. 489),
Congress granted to the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, a right of way over certain public lands, and also certain public lands to aid. in the construction of said railroad. That under and by virtue of
a certain Act of Congress of March 3, 1869, the Denver
Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company became the owner
of and entitled to all the rights and benefits so granted
and conferred by said Act of Congress of July 2, [1]
1862, and said company selected and definitely located
its said right of way, on August 20, 1869, and so selected
and definitely located and fixed its said right of way as to
bring the lands involved in this suit within the primary
limits of said grant. On April 13, 1866, Robert W. Woodward filed a certain valid pre-emption declaratory statement, numbered 2094, as provided for in the Act of Congress dated September 4, 1841 (5 Stat. 455), for the lands
hereinabove described (unoffered lands), upon which
final proof and payment was never made, that said declaratory statement was a valid and subsisting claim on
August 20, 1869, and all rights under and by virtue of
said pre-emption filing of said Woodward expired by operation of law on July 14, 1872, up to which date said filing was a valid and subsisting filing."

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
69.

Opinion of the Court.

The land was part of one of the odd-numbered sections
named in the land grant and was opposite the constructed
part of the road. ApriI'5, 1871, the Denver Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company sold and conveyed the land
to one James Langston. Thence by mesne conveyances
the land passed to Perry C. Benson, April 6, 1904.
The pendency of Woodward's filing prevented the title
from vesting in the railroad company, for it caused the
land to be excepted from the grant. Kansa- Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629.
A copy of the abstract of title showing the chain of
title from the Denver Pacific Railway & Telegraph Company to Perry C. Benson was stipulated into the record;
the abstract also showing the chain of title to and including the purchase by Mrs. Krueger of one-half interest in
the land from C. M. Krueger.
Benson paid $1,375.00 for the land, and both courts
found that he was and continued to be in pcssession of
the land with the title of record as stated, and that Mrs.
Krueger would be held to have knowledge of his rights,
certainly as between herself and Benson. We have no
doubt from the facts found that Benson had such possession and occupation of the premises as gave at least constructive notice of the nature and extent of his title. Under the Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, § 5, and the
regulations of the Land Department, he would have been
entitled upon hearing in the Department to purchase the
lands and acquire full title thereto upon complying with
the statute. Section 5 of the act, and the regulations of
the Land Department are given in the margin.'
i Sec. 5. That where any said company shall have sold to citizens
of the United States, or to persons who have declared their intention
to become such citizens, as a part of its grant, lands not conveyed to
or for the use of such company, said lands being the numbered sec-

tions prescribed in the grant, and being coterminous with the constructed parts of said road, and where the lands so sold are for any

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The turning question in the case is: Was Mrs. Krueger
a bona fide purchaser in such sense that she can hold the
land notwithstanding the fraudulent manner in which it
was acquired by the entryman Moses for the benefit of
Krueger. That Krueger had actual knowledge of Benson's claim to the premises admits of no doubt. As early
as August 3, 1907, Krueger wrote to Benson:
"Upon a search of the records, I find that you are the
present owner of the W/2NE/4, Sec. 17, Tp. 5 N, R 69
West of the 6th P. M. [the tract in controversy], and that
the title thereto is imperfect. If you are sufficiently interested, I would be pleased to correspond with you relative to the matter and assist you in curing the defect.
"My charges will be reasonable."
Krueger had been chief clerk of the United States Land
Office at Denver until February 12, 1907, and thereafter
practiced as an attorney in land and mining matters at
Denver. Moses procured the soldier's additional homestead right upon which the entry was made, and made
the entry at the request of Krueger who had bought the
soldiers' additional right from Moses for $780.00. Moses
deeded the land to Krueger, and never claimed any interest in it. The Land Department's regulations required
reason excepted from the operation of the grant to said company, it
shall be lawful for the bona fide purchaser thereof from said company
to make payment to the United States for said lands at the ordinary
Government price for like lands, and thereupon patents shall issue
therefor to the said bona fide purchaser, his heirs or assigns.
Regulations promulgated by the Land Department on February 13,
1889, provided with reference to § 5 (8 L. D. 348, 352):
"No entry will be allowed under this section until it shall have been
finally determined by this Department that the land was excepted
from the grant."
And again on August 30, 1890 (11 L. D. 229):
"If the applicant is not the original purchaser from the company
it is immaterial what the qualifications of his immediate grantor or
the intervening purchasers may have been."

KRUEGER v. UNITED STATES.
69.

Opinion of the Court.

an affidavit that the land located or selected was not in
any manner occupied adversely to the locator or selector.
Moses obtained a receiver's receipt upon April 8, 1910;
and conveyed by deed to Krueger April 15, 1910. On
April 22, 1910, Krueger conveyed to Mrs. Krueger and
Mrs. McIntyre, the wife of one who had made a corroborating affidavit also containing the statement that the land
was not in any manner occupied adversely to the selector.
The patent was issued to Moses June 6, 1910, and on
April 22,1913, Mrs. McIntyre conveyed her one-half interest in the premises to Mrs. Krueger. Mrs. Krueger testified that she paid her husband $400.00 in cash for the undivided one-half interest, and that she paid Mrs. McIntyre
$1,500.00 by check for her one-half interest. She testifies
that when she bought from her husband after final receipt,
and before the patent issueat, she had not seen the land
and knew nothing about it, and did not in fact see it until March 27, 1913; that she knew nothing about the
statements made in the affidavit signed by Moses or the
affidavit of McIntyre; that before she purchased the interest of Mrs. McIntyre she had been upon the land and
found there a Mrs. Benson, who said that her father-inlaw was P. C. Benson, and that she and her husband were
farming the land.
But we need not dwell upon any inferences which may
arise from the relationship between Mrs. Krueger and
her husband and her actual knowledge of Benson's possession, for we think the Circuit Court of Appeals was
right in reaching the conclusion that Mrs. Krueger had
at least constructive notice of the manner in which the
land had been obtained from the Government. If the
affidavit of Moses had truthfully stated the possession of
Benson, Benson would have had an opportunity to claim
his rights under the Act of March 3, 1887, and the regulations of the Land Department. From the receiver's
receipt, which was the evidence of title of record when

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Mrs. Krueger obtained the deed from her husband, she
was bound to know that the land had been obtained upon
an affidavit of Moses asserting that the land was not occupied adversely. Under the decisions of this court she
was chargeable with notice from Benson's possession,
and his record title from the railroad company, that he
had a preferential right of purchase under the Act of
March 3, 1887. Gertgens v. O'Connor, 191 U. S. 237, 246;
Ramsey v. Tacoma Land Co., 196 U. S. 360, 364. Having
such notice of the origin of the title under which she had
purchased, she was chargeable with notice of the facts
shown by the records, and could not shut her eyes to
these sources of information and still be an innocent purchaser without notice. This doctrine, often asserted in
this court, was summarized in Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230
U. S. 139, 164, in which it was said: "It is a familiar doctrine, universally recognized where laws are in force for
the registry or recording of instruments of conveyance,
that every purchaser takes his title subject to any defects
and infirmities that may be ascertained by reference to
his chain of title as spread forth upon the public records.
Brush v. Ware, 15 Pet. 93, 111; Simmons Creek Coal Co.
v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 437; Northwestern Bank v. Freeman, 171 U. S. 620, 629; Mitchell v. D'Olier,68 N. J. Law
(39 Vr.), 375, 384; 53 Atl. Rep. 467; 59 L. R. A. 949."
If Mrs. Krueger had used these sources of information
she would have ascertained that the Moses affidavit
wherein it was stated that the lands were not in any manner occupied adversely was untrue. Constructively she
is held to have knowledge of these facts. Washington
Securities Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 76, 79. And see
Dallemand v. Mannon, 4 Colo. App. 262, 264. The defense of bona fide purchaser is an affirmative one, and the
burden was upon Mrs. Krueger to establish it in order to
defeat the right of the Government to have a cancellation
of the patent, fraudulently obtained. Wright-Blodgett

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO CO. v. AM. TOBACCO CO. 79
69.

Syllabus.

Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 397, 403, 404; GreatNorthern Ry. Co. v. Hower, 236 U. S. 702.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that Mrs.
Krueger did not sustain the burden of showing that she
was a bona fide purchaser for value, and under the circumstances shown she had constructive notice of the manner
in which the land had been procured from the United
States. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in holding that the Government was entitled to a cancellation
of the patent.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE McREmoLDs took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

PEOPLE'S TOBACCO COMPANY, LIMITED,
AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY.

v.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 124. Argued January 4, 7, 1918.-Deeided March 4, 1918.
As applied to a corporation defendant, the provision of the Sherman
Act of 1890, § 7, allowing actions for treble damages to be brought in
the district in which the defendant "resides or is found," means that
the corporation must be present in the district, by its officers or
agents, carrying on its business.
Upon consideration of the evidence, heZd, that the defendant corporation of New Jersey undertook in good faith to carry out a decree
of dissolution made by the Circuit Court in New York, and to divest
itself of a former branch business in Louisiana; and that subsequent
service of process, upon the former manager of that business, in
Louisiana, was ineffectual to bind the corporation.
Defendant's revocation of its designation of a former manager of its

