IBANEZ v. HONGKONG BANKING CORP.
621.

627

Syllabus.

could stand in lieu of "those legal safeguards" with which
the new code of procedure "envelops the property of a
minor child."
There are other contentions of appellants which are
either mixed with questions of fact or depend upon an
appreciation of local matters and procedure the decision
of the local court upon which we accept.
Judgment affirmed.

JOAQUIN IBANEZ DE ALDECOA Y PALET ET AL.
v. HONGKONG & SHANGHAI BANKING CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 231. Argued March 20,21, 1918.-Decided April 29, 1918.
Mortgagors, in an action to foreclose, unsuccessfully pleaded in abatement their pending action to annul the mortgage, which had been
submitted. Held, that the ruling, even if erroneous, became harmless in view of a judgment in the earlier action by which the validity of the mortgage was correctly sustained.
The court accepts the lower courts' interpretation of the Philippine
law (Civil Code, Art. 1851) to the effect that mere failure of a creditor to sue when the obligation in whole or in part matures does not
extend its term, and that to extinguish a surety's liability an extension must be based on some new agreement by which the creditor
deprives himself of the right immediately to enforce his claim.
The judgment of the trial court is modified to correct a clerical error,
appearing by the trial court's opinion and by concession of appellee's
counsel.
30 Phil. Rep. 255, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Mr. Antonio M. Opisso for appellants.
Mr. C. C. Tucker, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr.
Evans Browne and Mr. F. C. Fisherwere on the briefs, for
appellee.
MR. JuscE McKE

A

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was submitted with No. 230, just decided,
ante, 621. It was brought in the Court of First Instance
of Manila to foreclose, among other purposes, the mortgage which that suit was brought to declare void. The
defense in this case of Joaquin Ibanez and Zoilo Ibanez
is based on the same ground that they alleged as a cause
of action in the other case, that is, that the mortgage is a
nullity because they were unemancipated minors when it
was executed. This contention and the facts and legal
propositions relevant to it are set out in No. 230 and need
not be repeated. It was there decided that their emancipation was complete and legal and the mortgage executed
by them therefore valid, the Civil Code providing for
such emancipation not having been repealed or superseded by the Code of Civil Procedure-this being the basic
contention.
Other defenses are, however, set up which were more
or less mingled with defenses of other parties to the suit
who are not here. Those special to Joaquin and Zoilo
Ibanez were, as separated by the Supreme Court: (1) The
pendency of another suit, and (2) a former judgment.
(1) Under this it was urged that the suit for the anwulling of the mortgage (case No. 230) had been submitted for adjudication and had not been diposed of.
Identity was hence asserted between the two actions
and it was insisted that the second should have awaited
the disposition of the first. The Supreme Court took a

IBANEZ v. HONGKONG BANKING CORP.
627.

629

Opinion of the Court.

different view, urged thereto by cases which it cited.
But counsel say that if the mortgage had been declared
null in the first action (No. 230) it could not have been
foreclosed in the second (that at bar), as it would have
encountered the plea of res judicata. If, however, the
mortgage had been upheld in the first action the appellants would have been precluded from attacking it in the
second. That the alternatives would have occurred
may be conceded; one of them, indeed, has occurred and
has demonstrated that appellants suffered no detriment
from the ruling.
The appellant Isabel Palet assigns as error that the
Supreme Court failed to hold (1) that her liability as
surety of Aldecoa & Company had been extinguished in
accordance with the provisions of article 1851 of the Civil
Code, which provides that "The extension granted to
the debtor by the creditor, without the consent of the
surety, extinguishes the security." (2) Refused to order
for her benefit that the property of the company should
be exhausted before resort be had to .her property for
satisfaction of the bank's claim.
It will be observed at once that the defenses have some
dependence upon questions of fact upon which the two
courts below concurred. From article 1851 of the Civil
Code, abstractly considered, nothing can be deduced.
Both the trial and Supreme Courts held that "the mere
failure to bring an action upon a credit, as soon as the
same or any part of it matures, does not constitute an
extension of the term of the obligation." And it was
further held that the extension, to produce the extinction
of the liability, "must be based on some new agreement
by which the creditor deprives himself of the right to immediately enforce the claim." This interpretation of the
local courts of the local law we defer to. The construction,
moreover, expresses the rule that obtains in other jurisdictions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

As to the other assignment of error the court replied
that Isabel Palet did not deny that as a member of
the firm of Aldecoa & Companyshe was liable with the
company and that, besides, the trial court had directed
that the mortgaged properties, including the properties
miortgaged by her, should be sold under foreclosure
in the event the company should not pay into court the
amount of the judgment within the time designated for
the purpose.
Counsel for appeliee, however, admits that by clerical
error the judgment is made to run "against the company and Isabel Palet jointly and severally and does'not
in terms express the subsidiary character" of her liability,
and he therefore does not oppose a modification of the
judgment to conform to the opinion of the trial court,
that is, "that save as regards the foreclosure of the mortgage no execution shall issue against Isabel Palet until
after the exhaustion of the assets of the principal debtor
[the company]-which, by the way," counsel adds, "is a
mere formality, as there are no such assets available,
Aldecoa & Company being notoriously insolvent, as
stated by the Supreme Court in its decision." Opposing
counsel may not be of this opinion and we therefore
modify the judgment as indicated, and, as modified, it is
Affirmed.

