OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

246 U. S.

izing the sale of intoxicating liquor, or, if his knowledge
of such use be the issue, he may be heard upon that
question. Mullen v. Peck, 49 Ohio St. 447; Bertholf v.
O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 509.
In view of the broad authority of the States over the
liquor traffic, and the established right to prohibit or regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors, we are unable to
discover that there has been a deprivation of property
rights in the legislation in question in violation of due
process of law secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

TALLEY v. BURGESS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
I

No. 157. Argued January 25, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
The Cherokee Agreement of July 1, 1902, c. 1375,32 Stat. 716, imposed
no restriction, other than that of minority, upon the alienation by the
heir of his interest in land allotted under § 20 in the name of an
ancestor who died before receiving an allotment.
The Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, § 22, applied to allotments made before its date under § 20 of the Cherokee Agreement
(Braderv. James, ante, 88,) and required that a guardian's contract,
made on May 11, 1906, to convey the minor's interest in such an
allotment, be approved by the United States court for the Indian
Territory, as a condition to the validity of the contract.
46 Oklahoma, 550, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Haskell B. Talley, pro se, submitted.
Mr. Thomas D. Lyons, with whom Mr. Benjamin F.
Rice was on the brief, for defendants in error.

TALLEY v. BURGESS.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

mR. JusTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by H. B. Talley in the District
Court of Tulsa County, Oklahoma, for the specific performance of a certain contract entered into by Nora B.
Purgess, mother and guardian of the defendant in error,
Daniel S. Burgess, a minor, with the law firm of Talley
& Harnage. Harnage refusing to join in this action it
was brought by Talley alone. Harnage was made a defendant to the suit. The petition sets forth that the contract was for professional services in consideration of
which the attorneys were to receive a one-half interest
in the one-third interest of the defendant in error, Daniel
S. Burgess, in certain Cherokee allotted land. The contract was made on May 11, 1906, and the allotment in
question was embraced in a selection of land made by
Nora B. Burgess, as administratrix of the estate of John
S. Burgess, the latter, the father of Daniel S. Burgess,
having died without having selected or received an allotment.
The petition states that on May 11, 1906, Talley &
Harnage entered into contracts with the other heirs of
John S. Burgess siniiar to those entered into with the
defendant in error.
The land in controversy, it is set forth, was originally
allotted to defendant's mother, an intermarried Cherokee
Indian, but the attorneys procured a cancellation of that
allotment and then another allotment of the same in the
name of the defendant's father, this allotment being selected by the administratrix in his right. The petition
avers that defendant's share had been set apart to him,
and that at the time of the beginning of the suit he was
in the quiet enjoyment thereof. The Circuit Court appointed a guardian ad litem for the defendant in error,
Daniel S. Burgess, and a motion was filed, treated in the
courts below as a demurrer, and the trial court held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

under the statutes of the United States the guardian
could not dispose of the ward's property, as she had undertaken to do, except under order of the proper United
States court on petition filed for that purpose; and that
the attempted sale by the guardian without court procedure was void. On error the Supreme Court of Oklahoma affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Tulsa County. 46 Oklahoma, 550.
The case as presented in this court involves two questions:
1. Whether the Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, is
applicable to the present suit.
2. If applicable, whether conveyances of the kind here
involved, of the ward's interest in the allotted lands,
could be made by his guardian without an order of court.
The land was allotted under the Cherokee Agreement,
32 Stat. 716, which provides in § 11 for allotment by the
Con=ission to the Five Civilized Tribes to each citizen
of the Cherokee Tribe, after approval by the Secretary
of the Interior of the enrollment provided, of land equal
in value to 110 acres, to be selected by each allottee so as
to include his improvements. Section 13 provides for
the designation of a homestead out of said allotment equal
in value to forty acres of the lands of the Cherokee Nation, to be inalienable during the lifetime of the allottee,
not-exceeding twenty-one years from the date of the allotment. Section 14 provides that lands allotted to citizens
shall not in any manner be encumbered, taken, or sold
to secure or satisfy any debt or obligation, or be alienated
by the allottee or his heirs, before the expiration of five
years from the date of the ratification of the act. Section 15 provides that all lands allotted to the members
of the tribe, except such as are set aside for a homestead,
shall be alienable five years after issuance of patent. Section 20 provides:
"If any person whose name appears upon the roll pre-

TALLEY v. BURGESS.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

pared as herein provided shall have died subsequent to
the first day of September, nineteen hundred and two,
and before receiving his allottment, the lands to which
such person would have been entitled if living shall be
allotted in his name, and shall, with his proportionate
share of other tribal property, descend to his heirs according to the laws of descent and distribution as provided in
chapter forty-nine of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes
of Arkansas: Provided, That the allotment thus to be
made shall be selected by a duly appointed administrator
or executor. If, however, such administrator or executor
be not duly and expeditiously appointed, or fails to act
promptly when appointed, or for any other cause such
selection be not so made within a reasonable and proper
time, the Dawes Commission shall designate the lands
thus to be allotted."
It may be regarded as established that the Cherokee
Agreement, in view of the sections just considered, imposes no restrictions upon alienation of the interest in
the land thus going to the heir, other than that of minority.

Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448; Skelton v.

Dill, 235 U. S. 206; Adkins v. Arnold, 235 U. S. 417.
However, the agreement upon which this suit was brought
was made after the passage of the Act of April 26, 1906,
a statute with which this court has had occasion to deal
in recent decisions. Its scope and purpose were dealt
with in Brader v. James, just decided, ante, 88. That
act, as its title indicates, is a comprehensive one for the
final disposition of the affairs of the Five Civilized Tribes.
Sedtion 22 provides:
"That the adult heirs of any deceased Indian of either
of the Five Civilized Tribes whose selection has been
made, or to whom a deed or patent has been issued for
his or her share of the land of the tribe to which he or she
belongs or belonged, may sell and convey the lands inherited from such decedent; and if there be both adult

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

and minor heirs of such decedent, then such minors may
join in a sale of such lands by a guardian duly appointed
by the proper United States court for the Indian Territory. And in case of the organization of a State or Territory, then by a proper court of the county in which said
minor or minors may reside or in which said real estate
is situated, upon an order of such court made upon petition ified by guardian. All conveyances made under this
provision by heirs who are full-blood Indians are to be
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe."
It is contended that this section applies only tb heirs
of a deceased Indian whose selection has been made by
himself, or to whom a deed or patent has been issued for
his or her share of the land of the tribe to which the decedent belonged. But in our view Congress in the passage
of § 22 had in contemplation that an Indian duly enrolled
and entitled to share in the tribal property and lands
might die before receiving the allotment to which he, or
she, was entitled. Congress had made provision in § 20
of the Cherokee Agreement that such land might be allotted in the name of the deceased, and should with the
proportionate share of the other tribal property descend
to the heirs of the one who would have been entitled, if
living. It also provided that the selection for a decedent
should be made by a duly appointed administrator or
executor, or, in default of such selection, the Dawes Commission should designate the land to be allotted. We
think minor heirs who thus receive lands are within the
meaning and purpose of the statute, as much so as they
would have been had the land been selected by the ancestor in his lifetime.
Section 22 being applicable to a conveyance of a minor's
lands in the situation here presented, we come to the
question whether the guardian could legally make disposition thereof without an order of the court of the United

TALLEY v. BURGESS.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

States for the Indian Territory. It is contended that § 22,
as enacted, makes the requirement as to the order of the
court applicable only after organization of a State or Territory. Literally read the statute might lend itself to such
interpretation. But minor heirs are required to join in
the sale of the lands by a guardian duly appointed by the
proper United States court for the Indian Territory.
The next sentence specifically. provides that the order of
sale must be made upon petition filed by the guardian in
the proper court of the county in which the land is situated. These provisions, read together, and construing
the statute in the light of the purpose to be accomplished,
we think, require court approval'in both instances. It
is not denied that the United States court for the Territory would have had jurisdiction of a proceeding by a
guardian for an order to sell the ward's interests in the
lands. (See Robinson v. Long Gas Co., C. C. A., 8th Cir.,
221 Fed. Rep. 398, where the applicable statutes are set
out and considered.)
We cannot.believe that Congress intended after territorial or state organization to require the guardian to procure the approval and order of a court before disposition
of the ward's lands, and before the organization of a Territory or State to permit the guardian, who was required
to be appointed by the United States court for the Indian
Territory, which court had jurisdiction over the sale of
the lands of the ward upon application of the guardian,
to dispose of the ward's interests in lands without judicial
approval. The Supreme Court of Oklahoma did not err
in holding that the Act of April 26, 1906, was applicable,
and that the interests in the lands of the ward could only
be sold with the approval of the United States court for
the Indian Territory, and its judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

