GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. DONALDSON.

121

Syllabus.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.DONALDSON, ADMINISTRATRIX OF THOMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM E COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 172, Argued January 31, 1918.--Decided March 4, 1918.
Where the state trial and supreme courts have successively found sufficient evidence of negligence to sustain a verdict for plaintiff in an
action under the Employers' Liability Act, it is not the province of
this court to weigh the conflicting evidence on the subject; it will go
no farther than to ascertain that there is evidence supporting the
verdict.
The Federal Boiler Inspection Act, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913, is a "statute
enacted for the safety of employees," within the meaning of § 4 of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, which latter eliminates assumption of risk in cases where the violation of such a statute contributes
to the injury or death of the employee.
Where there was evidence tending to prove that a locomotive boiler
which exploded was unsafe in that the button-heads on the bolts of
the crown-sheet over the fire-box were unnecessarily large, and subject to deterioration from overheating, when oil was used for fuel;
and in that the boiler was not provided with fusible safety plugs and
had an accumulation of scale; held, that a request for an instruction
stating that no safety statute was applicable, and submitting the
question of assumed risk, was inconsistent with § 4 of the Employers'
iUability Act and § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act.
The court instructed to the effect that if the jury believed from a fair
preponderance of the evidence that the boiler was not in the proper
condition, etc., defined by § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act, due to
the defendant's negligence in any of the respects above mentioned,
there would be no assumption of risk, but that if it was in such condition, but due to defendant's negligence was defective in any of
such respects, and the employee had actual knowledge of such defects or they were so plainly visible that in the reasonable exercise
of his faculties he should, and might be presumed to, have known
them, then he assumed the risk. Held, more favorable to the defendant than the law required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Testimony ]eld not to show an approval by federal boiler inspectors of
the use of the large type of button-head on an oil-burning engine.
When a feature of construction renders a boiler unsafe, within the
definition of § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act, the fact that it has not
been disapproved by a federal inspector does not absolve the carrier
from liability.
89 Washington, 161, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. G. Dorety, with whom Mr. E. C. Lindey and
Mr. F. V. Brown were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James McCabe, with whom Mr. Hyman Zetter and
Mr. John C. Higgins were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Adaline Donaldson as administratrix of the estate of
Vance H. Thorns, deceased, brought suit in the Superior
Court of Snohomish County, Washington, under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, to recover damages
for injuries received which resulted in the death of Vance
H. Thorns, by reason of a boiler explosion upon one of defendant's engines upon which decedent was employed as
an engineer.
The charges of negligence, in the amended complaint
alleged to have resulted in the injury and death of the decedent, were: That the boiler on the engine was insufficient
in that:
1. The button-heads of the crown-bolts of the boiler
were excessively and unnecessarily large and consequently
unduly exposed to the direct heat produced by the oil
fuel used on the locomotive;
2. That the boiler was not provided with fusible safety
plugs;

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. DONALDSON.
121.

123

Opinion of the Court.

3. That scale was negligently allowed by defendant
company, its officers and employees, to accumulate upon
the crown-sheet in the boiler.
The answer of the company denied negligence, and
specifically set up the defense of contributory negligence
and assumed risk on the part of the deceased. In the
trial court the plaintiff recovered a verdict and judgment,
and the judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court of
the State of Washington. 89 Whshington, 161.
The ground of reversal principally urged here is that
the testimony did not warrant a recovery by the plaintiff,
and when properly considered required an instruction to
the jury to find a verdict in favor of the company.
An examination of the record discloses that there was
testimony tending to support the allegations of negligence
set forth in the amended complaint. That the engine
upon which the deceased was working had been a coalburning engine but that at the time of the explosion the
fuel used in its operation was, and for some time had been,
oil. That the button-heads on the bolts of the crownsheet at the top of the fire-box (this sheet also formed the
bottom of the water compartment over the fire-box)
were large ones when the engine was fired with coal, and
were not changed with the change of fuel from coal to oil.
That these button-heads because of their size became
overheated when oil was used for fuel, resulting in the
deterioration and weakening of the strength of their material, and from the consequent giving away of the buttonheads, the crown-sheet came down and the explosion resulted. There is also testimony tending to show that
there was an accumulation of scale and a want of use of
fusible plugs.
On the part of the company there was testimony. tending to meet and refute that introduced by the plaintiff,
and a considerable amount of testimony was introduced
tending to show that the water in the boiler was too low,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

thereby causing the explosion from the fault of the deceased engineer in allowing it to become so. There was
testimony for the plaintiff to the effect that the water was
not too low at the time of the explosion. The trial court
submitted these issues to the jury, with the result that a
verdict was found in favor of the plaintiff. The trial
court held that there was evidence sufficient to sustain
the verdict, and refused to disturb it. The Supreme
Court of Washington affirmed the judgment. In this
situation it is enough to say that it is not the province of
this court to weigh conflicting evidence. The record shows
testimony supporting the verdict, and that is as far as
this court enters upon a consideration of that question.
Complaint is made that the trial court failed to give
an instruction requested by the company as to assumption of risk, and as to the effect of the Federal Boiler Inspection Act.
Section 4 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act (35
Stat. 65) provides:
"That in any action brought against any common carrier under or by virtue of any of the provisions of this
Act to recover damages for injuries to, or the death of,
any of its employees, such employee shall not be held to
have assumed the risks of his employment in any case
where the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of employees contributed to the
injury or death of such employee."
That the Federal Boiler Inspection Act was enacted
for the safety of employees is obvious. Section 2 of that
act, 36 Stat. 913; 8 U. S. Comp. Stats. 1916, § 8631, provides:
"That from and after the first day of July, nineteen
hundred and eleven, it shall be unlawful for any common
carrier, its officers or agents, subject to this Act to use any
locomotive engine propelled by steam power in moving
interstate or foreign traffic unless the boiler of said loco-

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. DONALDSON.
121.

125

Opinion of the Court.

motive and appurtenances thereto are in proper condition
and safe to operate in the service to which the same is
put, that the same may be employed in the active service
of such carrier in moving traffic without unnecessary peril
to life or limb, and all boilers shall be inspected from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
and be able to withstand such test or tests as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations hereinafter provided
3
for."
Counsel for the company at the trial upon assumed risk
requested the following charge:
"You are instructed that even where an employer,
such as a railroad company, is negligent in the construction or maintenance of its tools or equipment, such as
a locomotive, yet an employee who accepts, or continues
his employment, knowing of the existence of such defects
or negligence, and knowing the danger therefrom, assumes the risk of the injury to himself from such defects
and cannot recover if he is injured as a result of them.
This would not be true in the present case, if the negligence or defects involVed some violation of a United
States statute, but there is no evidence of any violation
of such a statute in this action, so that the rule which I
have just given to you would apply in this case. Therefore, even if you find that the defendant company had
been negligent in adopting an improper type of bolt, or
in failing to install fusible plugs, or in some other particular in the construction or maintenance of this boiler,
and even though you should also find that such negligence
caused the explosion, still, the plaintiff cannot recover in
this action, if you should also find that the deceased, V.
H. Thoms, was familiar with the type of construction
used, or the particula foWin of negligence involved, and
knew the danger likely to arise therefrom, or if, in the
exercise of a reasonable care, he should have known of
these things prior to the time of his injury."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

But the court charged upon this subject:
"You are instructed that the law provides that it shall
be unlawful for any common carrier, as was the defendant, engaged in interstate. commerce, to use any locomotive engine propelled by steam power, unless the boiler
of the locomothie engine and appurtenances thereof are
in proper condition and safe to operate in the service to
which the same is put, that the same may be employed in
the active service of said carrier in moving traffic, without unnecessary peril to life and limb; and that no employee shall be deemed to have assumed any risk of death
by reason of any locomotive engine operated in violation
of said law, and that no employee injured or killed by
reason of a locomotive engine operated in violation of
said law shall be held to have been guilty of contributory
negligence.
"Therefore, if you shall believe, from a fair preponderance of all the evidence in the case, that the boiler of the
locomotive engine No. 1902 or the appurtenances thereof
were not in proper condition and safe to operate in the
active service of the defendant in moving traffic without
unnecessary peril to life or limb, by reason of the negligence of the defendant, in any one or more of the three
respects alleged in the complaint, then and in that case
Vance H. Thoms assumed no risk of death and was guilty
of no contributory negligence, and the affirmative defenses must fail.
"However, if such boiler and appurtenances were in
proper condition and safe for such use in moving traffic,
but due to defendant's negligence were defective in one
or more of the respects alleged in the complaint and
Vance H. Thoms had actual knowledge of such defect or
defects, or such defects were 'so plainly observable that
in the reasonable exercise of his faculties he should have
known of such and may be presumed to have known
thereof and the dangers that surrounded him, then Vance

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. DONALDSON.
121.

127

Opinion of the Court.

H. Thoms assumed the risks of injury and the plaintiff
cannot recover in this action."
The charge requested is inconsistent with the provisions of § 4 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and
§ 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act. As given it is enough to
say that it is more favorable to the company than the
law requires. See Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Proffitt,
241 U. S. 462, 468.
The further contention is that the effect of this charge
was to leave to the jury to determine the type of boiler
construction, in respect to the use of the large buttonheads which are alleged to have made the engine unsafe
to operate. And it is contended that there is testimony
tending to show that the use of either the large or small
kind bf button-heads was approved by the Federal Department of Boiler Inspection. Attention is directed to
the testimony of an expert witness, offered by the defendant for the purpose of showing that low water was the
cause of the explosion, in which he spoke of the use of
the button-heads of the larger and also of the smaller or
taperhead kind, and was asked whether the United States
Government made certain requirements as to how boilers and engines should be constructed, to which he answered: "No. Not as long we have the proper factor of
safety." . . . "They have a factor of safety, and
the factor of safety is five on the shell of the boilers; that
is if we have a 200 pound pressure boiler it should stand
up to a test of 1000 pounds; five to one." Asked whether
the Government inspects engines and locomotives in general, he answered: "Yes, by the United States inspectors,"
and that there was a standard to which locomotives
must be built in order to pass inspection. Asked as to
the type of the crown-bolt permitted, he answered that
either type is acceptable when properly applied. It is
evident that this testimony, whatever might be its effect,
is far from showing an approval by government inspect-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

ors of the use of the large type of button-head upon an
oil-burning engine.
Nor can we agree with the contention of the plaintiff
in error that so long as the large button-head had not been
disapproved by the government inspector such fact is
conclusive of the sufficiency of the type in use. We find
nothing in the Boiler Inspection Act to warrant the conclusion that there is no liability for an unsafe locomotive,
in view of the provisions of §2 of the act, because some
particular feature of construction, which has been found
unsafe, has not been disapproved by the federal boiler inspector.
Other errors are assigned; so far as they are open here
we have examined these assignments and find in none of
them reason for the reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington, and that judgment is
Affirmed.

EX PARTE SLATER, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC., PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT 6F MANDAMUS.
No. 27, Original.

Argued January 21, 1918.-Rule discharged

March 4, 1918.

A petition for mandamus should give a correct, uncolored statement
of the matter concerning which it seeks relief.
The function of mandamus, when directed to judicial officers, restated.
•The right of substitution, upon the death of a party to a suit in the
District Court, depends upon recognized legal and equitable principles to be judicially applied; and where, after due hearing, the motion is denied, the ruling, if erroneous, may be corrected upon appeal,
but it cannot be reviewed by mandamus.
By decree in a pending suit, the District Court directed that a sum in

