MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

457

Syllabus.

MANUFACTURERS RAILWAY COMPANY AND ST.
LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
MANUFACTURERS RAILWAY COMPANY AND
ANHEUSER-BUSCH BREWING ASSOCIATION
ET AL. v. UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 24, 25. Argued March 21, 22, 1917.-Decided April 15, 1918.
In a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish through routes and joint rates over the Manufacturers Railwaya company operating terminals at St. Louis and held by the Commission to be a common carrier, though controlled and principally used
by the intervening Brewery,--and certain trunk lines at St. Louis,
the contention was that the latter, in canceling tariffs wherein
they had applied their St. Louis rates to industries on the Railway
and had absorbed its switching charges, and in continuing this
practice as to another terminal-St. Louis Terminal Railroad
Association-whose shares they owned, were guilty of unlawful
discrimination, in avoidance of which the absorptions should be
regstablished.
Held: (1) That the finding of the Commission, based upon differences
of location, ownership and operation, that there was not undue discrimination was not without evidentiary support and not an abuse
of discretion.
(2) That the Commission was justified by the evidence in holding
that not more than $2.50 per car should be added to the trunk line
rates for the Railway terminal, upon the ground that such limitation
was necessary to avoid undue preferences or indirect rebates to the
Brewery.
(3) That, as the controversy was not directed to the reasonableness
of the trunk line rates, the Commission, in fixing the maximum joint

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

rate, properly assumed them to be reasonable per se; the "increased
rate clause" of the Commerce Act, as amended (c. 309,36 Stat. 552),
does not lay upon the carrier the burden of proving a new rate
reasonable when that question is not involved in the hearing.
(4) That the decision of this court, respecting the St. Louis Terminal
Association (224 U. S. 383, 412; 236 U. S. 194, 207-209), left untouched the powers of the Commission, and complainants were entitled at most to have the Commission consider the nature and
objects of the Association as circumstances bearing upon the question of discrimination and questions pertinent thereto.
In fixing joint rates it is within the discretion of the Commission to
allow the carriers to arrange the divisions, as contemplated by the
first paragraph of § 15 of the Commerce Act (36 Stat. 551), subject
to review by the Commission.
Whether a discrimination is undue or unreasonable or unjust is a question of fact confided by the Commerce Act, as amended (§§ 15, 16),
to the judgment and discretion of the Commission, and upon which
its decisions, made the basis of administrative orders operating
infuturo,are not to be disturbed by the courts except upon a showing
that they are unsupported by evidence, were made without a hearing,
exceed constitutional limits, or for some other reason amount to an
abuse of power.
A court cannot substitute its judgment for that of the Commission
upon a purely administrative matter.
Common use of the facilities of the St. Louis Terminal by fourteen
trunk lines owning its capital stock, under a single arrangement by
which they absorbed the terminal charges, held not as a matter of
law to entitle another terminal company, having no trunk line
and doing terminal switching alone, to precisely the same treatment.
The District Court has no jurisdiction under the Commerce Acts to
exercise administrative authority where the Commission has failed
or refused to exercise it, or to annul orders of the Commission not
amounting to an affirmative exercise of its powers. So held where
the Commission fixed maximum joint rates for trunk lines and
a terminal company, and the gravamen of the latter's suit was the
failure to fix the divisions.
A proper foundation for reparation was not laid in the evidence submitted to the Commission in this case.
Pending a proceeding. before the Commission involving an inquiry as
to how much could properly be allowed to a terminal as divisions
or absorptions by trunk line carriers, one of the latter, which was

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

459

Syllabus.

and remained a party, filed and published a tariff providing for
absorptions of the terminal's switching charges up to a certain rate
per car which it had previously allowed and retracted and was in the
position of attacking in the proceeding as illegal and excessive.
The Commission suspended the proposed absorption for 120 days
from the effective date, and then for 6 months, to await its decision
in the pending inquiry, treating the one as ancillary to the other and
as involving no different question on the merits, and, upon deciding
the original matter within the 6 months, canceled the tariff without
having given it a separate hearing. Held, proper, and not inconsistent with the provisions of § 15, second paragraph, of the Commerce Act, as amended June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 552, respecting
suspensions of new rates.
Although a rate-fixing order is not conclusive against attack upon the
constitutional ground of confiscation, correct practice requires that
the objection be made, and all evidence pertinent thereto adduced,
before the Commission in the first instance if practicable.
Where the Commission, after full hearing, sets aside a rate as unreasonably high, only a clear case would justify a court, upon evidence newly adduced but not newly discovered, in annulling the
Commission's action upon the ground that the same rate was so
unreasonably low as to deprive the carrier of its constitutional right
of compensation.
The evidence produced and relied on in the District Court by the complaining terminal,--consisting of expert valuation of its leasehold
and other property, calculations of revenue and expenses, with
allocations to its interstate business,--examined and held largely
speculative, inconsistent with other evidence, in part based on
erroneous theories, and, as a whole, insufficient to establish that a
rate of $4.50 per car for interchange movements would be confiscatory.
The voluntary adoption of a rate by a carrier is some evidence
against the carrier that it is remunerative.
In estimating the value of a leasehold to the lessee, taxes paid by the
lessor should not be deducted from the annual cost as measured by
the gross rental.
A finding by the Commission that a railway is a common carrier does
not mean that all of its property must be treated as employed in the
public service; portions used as a private plant facility should not
be considered in determining the adequacy of a rate.
A city leased for railway purposes land, which in considerable part
constituted a public wharf. Held, that, if the rental was less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

the fair annual value, it must be presumed the excess was granted
to the public, and not to the private interest of the carrier, in
capitalizing its assets for the purpose of testing the adequacy of a
rate.
Tn testing the adequacy of an interstate rate, it is error to base the
computation on the receipts and expenses of the carrier's entire
business without considering the adequacy of its charge for services
not affected by the rate or their possibly private character.
Affirmed.

These are appeals from final decrees made by the District Court in two cases dismissing petitions filed by the
appellants for the purpose of enjoining the enforcement
of orders made by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The cases are closely related to each other, were argued
at the same time, and will be disposed of in a single
opinion.
The facts are intricate, and have been the subject of
consideration by the Commission in three reports (21
I. C. C. 304; 28 I. C. C. 93; 32 I. C. C. 100), from which
the following resum6 is taken:
Situate in South St. Louis, within the limits of the City
of St. Louis, Missouri, and on the high ground back from
the Mississippi River, are the great industrial plants of
the Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association, a corporation,
hereinafter called the Brewery, which occupy approximately 126 acres-35 or 40 city blocks-intersected by
streets. There are numerous structures, in which are
conducted the manufacture and marketing of beer and
related products. The tonnage shipped by and to the
Brewery is very heavy, amounting to upwards of 40,000
carloads per annum, or approximately one-thirtieth of
all the inbound and outbound traffic of the entire city.
For a number of years following the establishment of the
Brewery its inbound raw materials and outbound products were drawn by horse and wagon from and to the
tracks of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company, hereinafter called the Iron Mountain,

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

461

Statement of the Case.

on the river front. In the year 1885 this method was
abandoned and a plant railway operated by steam was
substituted. Two years later the plaintiff Manufacturers
Railway Company was incorporated, hereinafter referred
to as the Railway, to which control and operation of the
plant system was made over. The Railway now has a
main line of 21Y miles, and approximately 23 miles
of side
tracks. It is engaged exclusively in the switching and
delivery of carload freight within the City of St. Louis.
The traffic of the.Brewery constitutes about 75 per cent.
of its total tonnage. At the time of the hearing before
the Commission, it owned no cars and only four locomotives; the cars used for the transportation of shipments
originating on its line being furnished principally by the
St. Louis Refrigerator Car Company, a substantial portion of whose stock is owned by the holders of a majority
of the stock of the Brewery. The facilities of the Railway, however, for a considerable period and to a large
extent had been available to the public, and it was held
by the Commission to be a common carrier, and not a'
mere industrial or tap line. But a majority of the stock
of the Railway was and is owned by the owners of a majority of the stock of the Brewery, so that the same interest controls both properties.
In the year 1888 the Railway leased its tracks to the
Iron Mountain for ten years, and in 1898 renewed the
lease for ten years. Up to this time the only outlet from
the rails of the Railway was to the main line of the Iron
Mountain on the bank of the Mississippi River. In 1903
the Railway undertook a further development of its terminal facilities, and the city authorized several extensions along certain streets, and leased to it a part of a
public wharf. In 1908 the Railway declined to grant a
further lease to the Iron Mountain, and took over the
operation of its property, with the object of enlarging
and extending its facilities, serving the public in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

portion of the city generally, and connecting with all
St. Louis lines by a junction with the St. Louis Transfer
Railway.
The principal terminal facilities of the City of St. Louis
are dominated by the Terminal Railroad Association,
hereinafter referred to as the Terminal, a corporation
whose capital stock is owned in equal shares by the 14
trunk lines entering that city. The Terminal, or its
proprietary or tenant lines, owns or controls all bridges
and ferries giving access to terminals within and lines
directly entering St. Louis, so that no interstate shipment
can enter or leave the city except over those lines. In
St. Louis there are three industrial centers naturally requiring terminal facilities. The northern section of the
city along the Mississippi River is one of these, and is
served by a considerable mileage of the Terminal and
the rails of nine of the trunk lines. In the western section,
in what is known as the Mill Creek Valley, there are many
industries served by a considerable mileage of the Terminal and the rails of four of the trunk lines. In South
St. Louis the companies rendering terminal service are the
Manufacturers Railway and the Iron Mountain. The
St. Louis Transfer Company, one of the subsidiaries of
the Terminal, has a line along the river bank, physically
available only to a negligible extent, and the lines of the
Iron Mountain generally follow the bank of the river and
reach such industries as are adjacent thereto. For a considerable distance along the river in this section of the
city there is a steep grade to be overcome in reaching
industries situate back from the river, and to confine
these industries to the terminal facilities of the Iron
Mountain would require a team haul up from the bank
of the river. The Railway's terminals reach the high
ground referred to, and besides its connection with the
Iron Mountain it constructed in 1908 a viaduct leading
over the Iron Mountain tracks and then descending to

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

463

Statement of the Case.

their level and forming a connection with the tracks of
the Transfer Railway, which lie between the Iron Mountain and the river. Through the Transfer Railway it
reaches the Terminal, and through the Terminal reaches
all the trunk lines that enter St. Louis. The Transfer
Railway is a corporation whose stock is owned by the
Wiggins Ferry Company, whose stock in turn is owned
by some of the trunk lines that own and control the Terminal.
The St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, a
trunk line hereinafter called the Cotton Belt, does not
reach St. Louis with its own rails, but enters East St. Louis
ma the rails of the Iron Mountain, over which it has
trackage rights. In serving industries within St. Louis
it uses the facilities of the Terminal and of the various
carriers within the city, including the Railway.
By ordinance of the City of St. Louis the Railway is
prohibited from charging more than $2 per car for local
switching. Prior to March 1, 1910, and including the
entire 20-year period covered by the leases of the Railway to the Iron Mountain, the trunk lines applied their
St. Louis rates to traffic originating at or destined to
industries served by the Railway, absorbing and paying
to the Railway, after the termination of the Iron Mountain lease, a switching charge of from $3 to $5.50 per car,
said to average about $4.50. The resuit of this was that
shippers served by the Railway received their transportation at the St. Louis rates without paying anything
additional for the terminal service performed by the
Railway.
At the same time the trunk lines absorbed the terminal charges of the Terminal (about $3 per car), and
similar allowances or absorptions were made by the trunk
lines to twelve other industrial lines in and about the

city.
About December 31, 1909, the trunk lines by concerted

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

.246 U. S.

action notified the Railway that from and after Maxch 1,
1910, they would cancel the tariffs wherein they had
applied the St. Louis rates to industries on the Railway
and had absorbed the Railway's terminal charges. Similar notice was given to the twelve other industrial lines,
and accordingly the allowances were canceled at the date
notified, but the practice of absorbing the charges of the
Terminal was not discontinued.
On March 4, 1910, the Railway and certain shippers
on its line, including the Brewery, filed a complaint
against the trunk lines before the Commission (I. C. C.
Docket No. 3151), in which it was alleged that the tariff
cancellations were in effect an unjust and unlawful refusal by the trunk lines longer to continue through routes
and joint rates theretofore established; that said action
constituted an unlawful discrimination as between industries and shippers on the lines of the Railway and
other industries and shippers in St. Louis, and subjected
the traffic of the Railway to undue and unreasonable disadvantage, and gave undue and unreasonable preference
to the shipping public in other parts of St. Louis; and
further that the concerted action of the trunk lines was
the result of an unlawful combination and conspiracy,
in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law. Complainants asked that through routes and joint rates be reestablished to and from points on the Railway from and
to points on each of the trunk lines and points beyond,
and that proper and reasonable divisions of the through or
joint rates be established. There was also a prayer for
reparation and for general relief.
The trunk lines answered, evidence was taken (none,
however, being introduced by the trunk lines beyond
such as was brought out by examination of complainants'
witnesses), and, after a hearing, the Commission, under
date June 21, 1911, filed a first report of its conclusions.
21 I. C. C. 304. It declared that the Railway was a

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 465
457.

Statement of the Case.

common carrier, within the provisions of the first section
of the Commerce Act, and not a mere plant facility of
the Brewery; that it supplied reasonable and necessary
terminal facilities to many industries besides the Brewery;
and that the payment to it by the trunk lines of a reasonable and just portion of the St. Louis rates for the terniinal service rendered by it was not unlawful; that the
action of the trunk lines in canceling the divisions and
'absorptions which for many years had been included in
the St. Louis rates had subjected complainant shippers
and a considerable portion of the public of South St. Louis
to the payment of unjust and unreasonable transportation charges and to undue discrimination and disadvantage; that there had been in effect a failure on the part
of the complainant carrier and defendants to'agree to the
apportionment or division of the rates or charges, and
this situation under the statute imposed upon the Commission the duty of adjusting the matter; that in view of
the peculiar features of the case detailed in the report
(including the heavy shipments to and from the Brewery,
and the fact that the same interests owned a majority of
the stock of the Railway and of the Brewery), it was important that the allowances to the Railway and the services rendered by it to its patrons in consideration of such
allowances should be equitably adjusted, and that the
trunk lines should closely guard these features in making
any allowances or divisions to the Railway, in order to
avoid the charge of unjust discrimination or undue preference or -advantage; but that the record before the Commission did not present a sufficient basis for a satisfactory
determination of the question as to the reasonable and
just division or allowance to the Railway, and the further
question as to whether a part of the service performed by
it was or was not plant facility service. These questions
were reserved for further examination.
After the hearing, and before the making of this first

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

report, practically all of the carriers published and filed
tariffs stating allowances or divisions with the Railway.
These were suspended by the Commission pending its
decision, and upon the making of the first report an order
was entered canceling the suspensions, effective July 15,
1911. No other order was made at that time.
Thereafter a supplemental hearing was had upon which
additional evidence was submitted by the trunk lines,
and as a result the Commission filed its second report,
dated June 21, 1913 (28 I. C. C. 93), but still made no
order. In this report the Commission (p. 105) adhered
to its former conclusion that the Railway was a common
carrier subject to the act, but in other respects materially
modified its views, now holding: that the payments
formerly made out of their through rates by the trunk
lines to the Railway were absorptions in compensation
for services rendered to the trunk lines, and were not divisions of joint rates as for services rendered for the
shippers served by the Railway, as they would be considered under joint rates prescribed by order of the Commission; that in the absence of any undue discrimination
with respect to these absorptions the Commission could
make no lawful order with reference thereto; that the
defendant trunk lines, in delivering freight at the St. Louis
rates to points on the rails of the Terminal and in refusing to bear the expense of similar delivery by the Railway upon its rails, were not subjecting the shippers located on and served by the Railway to undue prejudice
and disadvantage; that therefore the only lawful order
the Commission could make was in the establishment of
joint rates, under which that part of the service performed
by the Railway would be in the contemplation of the
Commerce Act a service performed for the shipper, to be
paid for by him, and not a service rendered for the trunk
lines, the expense of which could be required by the Commission to be borne by them; that the trunk line rates to

MANUFACTU"RS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 467
457.

Statement of the Case.

St. Louis not being shown to be unreasonable in themselves, the joint rates with the Railway necessarily must
be in excess of these by the amount of the Railway's part
of the through charge, and that joint through rates should
be established on that basis. Taking up the question of
the amount to be added to the trunk line rates in making
the joint rates, the existing allowances being, as stated,
from $3.00 to $5.50 per car, and complainants asking
for a uniform allowance of $4.50 per car, said to be lower
on the average, the Commission called attention to the
fact that the Railway's rate for local shipments between
any points on its line was $2 per car, fixed as a maximum
by city ordinance; for intra-plant movements, availed
of only by the Brewery-that being the only industry
having need for such service--$1 per car; and for weighing movements 25 cents per car; and that the Railway
had a contract with the Cotton Belt under which it
handled shipments for the latter, under certain exemptions from liability for damage, for $1 per car, and had
offered the same contract to other carriers. Considering
these facts with the other testimony submitted on this
phase of the case, the Commission expressed the opinion
that the division of the joint rates accruing to the Railway should not exceed $2 per car, saying: "However,
we shall not by definite finding and order fix these divisions now. This is our original finding with respect to
the establishment of joint rates, and the carriers, in accordance with the provisions of the act, will be given an

opportunity to agree among themselves." In conclusion
the Commission announced: "We regard the present
allowances which, as stated, average slightly above $4.50
per car, as effecting unlawful results."
Following the partial decision of the Commission in
its first report, most of the trunk lines reinstated the allowances to the Railway, and those allowances, averaging about $4.50 per car, were being paid at the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

the making of the second report. Pursuant to that report,
they were canceled.
In this situation the Railway, the Brewery, and other
complainant shippers applied to the Commission for a
rehearing, and the case was reargued and taken under
advisement November 13, 1913. Pending its decision,
and on December 7, 1913, the Cotton Belt and another
trunk line, both defendants in I. C. C. Docket No. 3151,
published and filed with the Commission tariffs to become effective January 7, 1914, providing for absorption
of the switching charges of the Railway up to $4.50
per car. These absorptions were suspended by order of
the Commission December 19, 1913, until May 7, 1914,
and by an order dated April 20, 1914, were suspended for
a further period of six months, or until November 7, 1914.
The suspension case was designated as Investigation and
Suspension Docket No. 355, and was treated by the
Commission as ancillary to the principal case, I. C. C.
Docket No. 3151.
Under date July 10, 1914, and prior to the expiration
of the second period of suspension, the Commission filed
its third and final report, 32 I. C. C. 100. It affirmed
the findings and conclusions contained in the second report, with an "interpretation"; still dealt with the Railway as a common carrier; held that the trunk lines by
their action in canceling the allowances to the Railway
while continuing to absorb the charge of the Terminal,
whose stbck they owned, did not subject the Railway
or its shippers to undue prejudice or. disadvantage; that
the amounts formerly paid by the trunk lines to the Railway were voluntary allowances and could not be considered by the Commission to be divisions of joint rates
which it could by affirmative order establish; that the
separate rates of the trunk lines and of the Railway being
necessarily regarded upon the record before the Commission as prima facie reasonable, any joint rates which

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 469
457.

Statement of the Case.

the Commission could by affirmative order require the
carriers in the through route to establish would necessarily
be higher than the trunk line rates to and from St. Louis
by the amount of that part of the through charge which
would accrue to the Railway; that while the Commission
could not require the trunk lines to participate with the
Railway in joint rates no higher than their rates to St.
Louis, they might voluntarily participate on that basis,
provided that in the division they did not pay to the Railway for its service more than was just and reasonable,
and did not thereby in the amount of the excess indirectly
refund to the Brewery a part of the through transportation charges paid to them by the Brewery; that the former
allowances of $4.50 per car paid by the trunk lines to the
Railway were excessive; and, instead of a maximum division to the Railway of $2 per car, as suggested in the
second report, upon further consideration the view was
expressed that the division accruing to the Railway
should not exceed $2.50 per car, subject to modification
upon further hearings with respect to divisions if the
necessity should arise.
In announcing its purpose to make an order requiring
the establishment and maintenance by complainant Railway and defendant trunk lines of maximum joint rates
not exceeding the St. Louis rates of the trunk lines by
more than $2.50 per car, the Commission declared that
when this had been done, whether the carriers in the
through routes should establish rates on that maximum
basis, or by voluntary agreement on a basis not higher
than the St. Louis rates, then, upon failure of the trunk
lines and the Railway to agree upon the proper basis of
division, and upon request made to the Commission for
the purpose, it would fix the divisions upon further investigation as provided in the act; if that inquiry should
confirm its present impression that $2.50 per car was a
reasonable division to the Railway, that would be granted;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

24 U. S.

and if, on the other hand, the Commission should be convinced by the evidence that $2.50 per car was too much
or not enough, it would fix the amount accordingly; and
that if not asked by the carriers to fix the divisions, the
Commission, upon proper cause appearing, might in its
discretion institute an inquiry upon its own motion,
under those provisions of the act which forbid the giving
or receiving of rebates or undue concessions, directly or
indirectly, by any device whatsoever, having in mind
particularly the fact of the common ownership of Railway and Brewery stock.
Thereupon an order was made under I. C. C. Docket
No. 3151, dated July 10, 1914, requiring the trunk lines
and the Railway on or before January 1, 1915, to cease
and desist from charging their then present rates on traffic
between points on the line of the Railway and points on
the trunk lines in other States to the extent that those
rates exceeded contemporaneous St. Louis rates by more
than $2.50 per car, and to put in force on or before the
same date and maintain thereafter for a period of not
less than two years rates applicable to traffic on the Railway not exceeding rates contemporaneously in effect between St. Louis and points in other States by more than
$2.50 per car.
At the same time, and upon the basis of the same report, an order was made under I. & S. Docket No. 355,
canceling the Cotton Belt taxiff that had been suspended by the orders of December 19, 1913, and April 20,
1914.
The former order of July 10 was attacked in a suit
brought in the District Court by the Railway, in which
the Brewery and other shippers on the line of the Railway
intervened as co-petitioners. Answers were filed by the
United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
evidence was taken, and upon final hearing the suit was
dismissed, without opinion. No. 25 is an appeal from

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 471
457.

Argument for Appellants.

this decree. The orders of April 20 and July 10 under
I. & S. Docket No. 355 were the subject of attack in a
suit by the Railway and the Cotton Belt, in which answers were filed by the United States and by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and upon evidence taken the
court, without opinion, dismissed the petition. From
this decree the appeal in No. 24 was taken.
Mr. Sidney F. Andrews and Mr. Daniel N. Kirby, with
whom Mr. Charles Nagel was on the briefs, for appellants:
The reasonableness per se of the advanced rates, made
effective by the cancellation of the tariffs, was in issue
and was actually passed upon by the Commission. The
cancellation of the absorptions constituted an "increase"
of the former rates. 30 I. C. C. 501, 503; id. 388, 389.
See also 30 I. C. C. 16; id. 349; id. 538, 545; id. 696, 699;
31 I. C. C. 633, 635; 29 I. C. C. 653; id. 70, 78. And the
burden rested on the trunk line carriers to justify the increase. Commerce Act, § 15; 30 I. C. C. 415, 419; id.
581, 583; 31 1. C. C. 351, 355; id. 573, 582; 30 I. C. C.
505, 508.
In the absence of proof to the contrary a presumption
arose from the long continuance of the former rates that
they were per se reasonable. Interstate Commerce Commisson v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 186 U. S.
320, 336; 26 I. C. C. 402, 404; id. 422, 429; 31 I. C. C.
244, 253; 34 I. C. C. 234, 247; 35 I. C. C. 47, 68. The
reasonableness of the advanced rates was assumed by
the Commission without evidence.
The carrier may increase a rate or it may curtail the
service performed for it, but if such action is challenged it
must bear the burden of showing that the new rate or
service is reasonable and free from unjust discrimination.
34 1. C. C. 242. In its second report the Commissidn held
that while the trunk lines might voluntarily extend their

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellants.

246 U. S.

service to points on the Manufacturers Railway at the
St. Louis rates, they could not be compelled to do so;
the reason being that their rates to the ends of their own
rails were reasonable per se, and that therefore for any
service beyond they would be entitled to additional compensation. Hence the assumption of the reasonableness
of their rates to the end of their rails formed the foundation of the conclusion. For more than twenty years,
the former rates of the trunk lines had included such
service beyond their own rails (first report, 21 I. C. C.
313), and under their new tariffs the carriers were performing a less service for the same compensation, which
was equivalent to an advance in their rates. A proper
determination, therefore, of the issue of the reasonableness
per se of the advanced rates was all-controlling. Such
finding having been made without evidence, the order
based thereon was void and should have been set aside.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91; FloridaEast Coast Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 167.
The advanced rates were presumptively unreasonable
because established not by free competition but by joint
and concerted action of the trunk lines, pursuant to their
conspiracy to further the unlawful monopoly known as
the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis. Appellants did not and do not seek to have the Association,
either directly or through its proprietary lines, declared
a monopoly, or enjoined or punished in any way as a
monopoly. They did and do contend that the Sherman
Act is pertinent and necessary to be taken into consideration, because it is a part of the law of the land. While
it does not confer special jurisdiction on the Commission,
or the Commerce or District Courts in reviewing orders
of the Commission, it does enter into the duties and
powers of the Commission as a limitation upon and qualification of them, and it enters also into the duties of

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

457.

473

Argument for Appellants.

carriers toward each other and toward the shipping public,
as a limitation and qualification upon them. When an
increase in rates results from free competition, it is entitled (in the absence of statute providing otherwise) to
the presumption of reasonableness; on the other hand,
when a change in rates is shown to have resulted from
unlawful concert of action, prompted by motives which
preclude a consideration of the reasonable merits of such
action, then no presumption of reasonableness can attach,
and, in such a case, the circumstances showing motive
and unreasonableness become a pertinent and important
subject of inquiry, as tending to show unreasonableness.
21 . C. C. 316; 10 I. C. C. 505, 540; 12 I. C. C. 236, 241.
The facts showing unlawful conspiracy violative of the
Sherman Act are proper to be considered as compelling
the conclusion that the cancellation tariffs, the increase
of rates resulting therefrom, and the attitude of the trunk
lines throughout toward the Railway and its shippers are
presumptively unreasonable, unjust, and intended to be
discriminatory.
In the absence of proof sustaining the reasonableness
per se of the advanced rates, and in view of the presumption of the reasonableness per se of the former rates, and
of the further presumption that the increased rates were
unreasonable, the only valid order which the Commission
could have made was a mandatory one commanding the
carriers to restore their former rates. It was this for
which complainants contended. 28 I. C. C. 110. Under
similar circumstances such a course has been frequently
followed by the Commission. 23 I. C. C. 518, 519. See
34 . C. C. 234.
When the ultimate facts are admitted or not in dispute, the legal effect of those facts presents a question of
law, and is reviewable as such.
The Commission based its conclusion that there was no
undue discrimination entirely upon its further conclusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellants.

246 U. S.

(which was purely a conclusion of law, not involving any
inference of fact), that the terminal service performed by
the lines of the Terminal and of its operating subsidiaries
and of the terminal facilities of the Iron Mountain, and
of the five other trunk lines, which perform terminal
switching in St. Louis in connection with other line carriers, must as a matter of law be treated as part of the
line haul of the trunk lines, and not as distinct terminal
services performed by independent terminal carriers
competing with the Railway; and this notwithstanding
the fact that, while refusing to continue to absorb the
terminal charges of the Railway, the trunk lines were at
the same time continuing to absorb the terminal charges
of the Terminal and of the Transfer Railway, and of the
various trunk lines which performed terminal services
in St. Louis. By that interpretation of the law, the Commission permitted the trunk lines to deny the St. Louis
rate to shippers on the Railway, while at the same time
permitting it to all shipping competitors within the same
switching zone (the City of St. Louis), and thus placed
the Railway and its shippers at the disadvantage of having
higher rates than any other shipping points in St. Louis,
and put them at the mercy of the trunk lines owning the
Terminal, by holding that while the trunk lines might by
voluntary act as a matter of grace absorb (or refuse to
absorb) the charges of the Railway, the Commission could
not compel them to do so.
It is a necessary conclusion from the decision of this
court in the Terminal Case, that if the Terminal be held
an integral part of the trunk lines and its service a part
of their line haul, then the combination is unlawful and
would be dissolved; if, on the other hand, it is an independent institution, "solely engaged in operating terminal facilities," performing a distinct terminal service
(not a part of the line haul), then it is lawful, but in
the latter case it must be treated as an independently

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 475
457.

Argument for Appellants.

operating terminal carrier, for all purposes of competition.
The trunk lines (before this court) justified the Terminal's continued existence on the ground that it
is an
independent terminal carrier, but on the other hand, in
their treatment of the Railway, they discriminated in
favor of the Terminal and in favor of its shippers and in
favor of each other and against this competitor, on the
ground that the Terminal is legally an integral part of
the trunk lines, and its service a part of the line haul,
and they thereby contravened the decision of this court
in the Terminal Case.
Yet that is precisely what the Commission held they
might do, since its decision of "no discrimination" was
based squarely upon its holding that the Terminal was
not an independent terminal system.
Nor can the conclusion of the Commission on the status
of the Terminal be sustained on the ground that the trunk
lines own all of its shares of stock. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98, 108; United States
v. Union Stock Yards Co., 226 U. S. 286.
The Commission erred in concluding that the terminal
facilities of each of the six trunk lines which perform terminal switching in St. Louis should be treated as merely
extensions of the rails of all the other trunk lines; and
that the terminal switching performed by each in connection with the line haul performed by another trunk
line should be treated as a part of the line haul of the
latter.
The Commission also erred as a matter of law in holding
that the existence of "reciprocal switching" relations
between the trunk lines made their St. Louis terminals
mere extensions of the rails of all the trunk lines, and made
the terminal service performed by them a part of the
line haul. PennsylvaniaCo. v. United States, 236 U. S. 351;
Louisville & Nashville R. B. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellants.

246 U. S.

1, 16, 17; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States,
227 Fed. Rep. 258, 269.
The decision of the Commission on the question of discrimination is directly contrary to its decisions in analogous cases. 34 I. C. C. 234, 237; 28 I. C. C. 101; 29
I. C. C. 212; 34 1. C. C. 596, 601; 37 1. C. C. 497; 36 I. C. C.
146.
The Commission erred in the view that there is a legal
distinction between "divisions of joint rates," and "absorptions of switching charges;" that it lacked power to
prescribe "absorptions;" and that therefore the restoration of the Railway's canceled absorptions must be left
to the volition of the trunk lines. 28 I. C. C. 103. The
Commission had this authority under its powers to establish maximum joint rates and to prescribe divisions.
Commerce Act, §§ 1, 3, 15. Discrimination by carriers
against connecting lines is forbidden by § 3. The "use of
tracks" in § 3 does not mean an extension of service
through divisions or allowances. Pennsylvania Co. v.
United States, 214 Fed. Rep. 445, 447; 236 U. S. 351.
Divisions and allowances are identical in substance,
each being an agreed participation in the revenue arising
out of a through and joint rate. Fourche River Lumber
Co. v. Bryant Co., 230 U. S. 316, 322, 323. The distinction
that allowances relate to services rendered for a trunk
line and divisions to services rendered a shipper is erroneous. In each case the service is for a tariff charge,
paid out of a through joint rate at a figure agreed to by all
participating carriers, and the service of each participating
carrier is rendered for the shipper.
The Commission erred in holding that under no circumstances is a carrier entitled to reparation, and in
ignoring the prayer of the complaining shippers for
reparation. Commerce Act, §§ 3, 8, 9, 13. Although the
order is silent concerning the reparation prayed for, and
is thus negative in form, its denial of a lawful right is

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

477

Opinion of the Court.

affirmative in effect. United States v. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co., 234 U. S. 476.
The order of the Commission suspending the tariff of
the Cotton Belt for a period of six months is arbitrary
and made without lawful authority and in effect a denial
of due process of law. Commerce Act, § 15; American
Sugar Refg. Co. v. Delaware,Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 207 Fed.- Rep. 733; Akerly v. Vilas, 24 Wisconsin,
171; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 93.
The order is confiscatory.
Mr. D. Upthegrove, Mr. A. L. Burford and Mr. Edward
A. Haid filed a brief for St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.
in No. 24.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE Prry,
having made the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be convenient to dispose first of No. 25.
The scope of the order of July 10, 1914, under I. C. C.
Docket No. 3151, is simple and limited; the grounds of
attack upon it are many and diverse, and based rather
upon what it does not, than upon what it does, require to
be done. As is pointed out in the prefatory statement,
the complaint before the Commission was made by the
Railway, the Brewery, and certain other shippers served
by the Railway. The respondents were the trunk lines.
The complaint charged that the then recent tariff can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

cellations were in effect a refusal to continue through
routes and joint rates from and to points on the line of
the Railway; alleged that this constituted unreasonable
discrimination between shippers on the line of the Railway and other shippers in the City of St. Louis, and subjected the former to undue prejudice and disadvantage,
contrary to §3 of the Commerce Act (24 Stat. 379, 380,
c. 104); and prayed that the trunk lines be required to
re~stablish the through routes and joint rates as they
existed before the cancellations, that the reasonable divisions of the rates be determined, and that due reparation
be awarded to the complainants, with such other relief
as the Commission might deem necessary. The order
under consideration, recognizing through routes as being
already in effect (a fact about which there is no dispute),
required the Railway and the trunk lines to establish,
and for at least two years to maintain, rates not exceeding
by more than $2.50 per car the trunk line rates contemporaneously in effect between St. Louis and points in
other States.
It is urged that the cancellation of the absorption tariffs
on March 1, 1910, constituted an increase of the former
rates because it curtailed the service to be rendered under
those rates; that the former absorptions presumably resulted in reasonable rates (Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 186 U. S.
320, 336); that by the "increased rate clause" of § 15 of
the Commerce Act as amended in 1910 (36 Stat. 552,
c. 309),' the burden was upon the trunk lines to show
I "At any hearing involving a rate increased after January first,
nineteen hundred'and ten, or of a rate sought to be increased after
the passage of this act [June 18, 1910], the burden of proof to show
that the increased rate or proposed increased rate is just and reasonable shall be upon the common carrier, and the commission shall
give to the hearing and decision of such questions preference over
all other questions pending before it and decide the same as speedily
as possible."

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

479

Opinion of the Court.

the reasonableness of the new rates; and that, there being
no evidence to sustain their reasonableness per se, the
Commission erred in law in failing to set them aside by
restoring the former absorptions.
But this clause of § 15, by the fair import of its terms,
imposes upon the carrier the burden of proving the new
rate to be just and reasonable, only where that question
is involved in the hearing; it does not call for proof as to
matters not in controversy. As the Commission pointed
out in its several reports (21 I. C. C. 308; 28 I. C. C. 100101, 103, 105, 110; 32 I. C. C. 102, 105), the complaint
was not directed to the reasonableness of the separate
rates either of the Railway (one of the complainants)
or of the trunk lines. The effort was to require the reestablishment of the former absorptions on the ground
that without them the continued practice of absorbing
the charges of the Terminal constituted a discrimination
as against shippers on the line of the Railway. And when
the question of discrimination was finally decided against
the contention of the complainants, and the claim of the
Railway to be regarded as a common carrier was decided
in their favor (both conclusions being supported by adequate evidence), it appearing that through routes actually
were in effect after as before the cancellations, the Commission deemed it unnecessary to do more at that time
than to fix a maximum for the joint rates, and then await
the voluntary action of the Railway and the trunk lines
about establishing joint rates within the maximum, and
agreeing between themselves respecting divisions.
The question of the reasonableness of the allowances
or divisions made and to be made to the Railway came
into the case incidentally, but inevitably, because of the
heavy shipments to and from the Brewery and the community of interest between it and the Railway. Upon
this point there was abundant evidence to support the
conclusion of the Commission that in making up the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

joint rates not more than $2.50 per car should be added
to the trunk line rates to St. Louis, and the intimation
(not final, and not carried into the order) that any division to the Railway out of the joint rate in excess of $2.50
per car would amount to an undue preference or indirect
rebate to the Brewery. Beyond this, no question of sep-

arate rates was involved, and the Commission did not
err, in view of the issues, in assuming the trunk line rates
to be reasonable per se. Although it might have dealt
with the divisions in the same order, so far as necessary
to prevent undue favoring of the Brewery (O'Keefe v.
United States, 240 U. S. 294, 300-302), it was within the
discretion of the Commission to allow the carriers to
make their own agreement upon the subject, as contemplated by the first paragraph of § 15 of the act (36 Stat.
551), subject to its review.
It is insisted that the "advanced rates" resulting from
canceling the absorptions were presumptively unreasonable because not established by free competition but by
concerted action in furtherance of the aims of the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis, held by this court
to be an unlawful combination in restraint of interstate
commerce. United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224
U. S. 383. But our decision in that case (224 U. S. 412;
236 U. S. 207-9) left untouched the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Besides, appellants sought
no special relief because of the Anti-Trust Act. Hence
at the utmost they were only entitled to have the Commission consider the nature and objects of the Terminal
Association as circumstances bearing upon the question
of discrimination and other questions to which they were
pertinent; and this the Commission did. 21 I. C. C. 308,
314; 28 1. C. C. 98, 104-106, 109-110; 32 I. C. C. 102.
It is insisted, however, that the finding to the effect
that it was not an undue or unjust discrimination for the
trunk lines to refuse to absorb the Railway's charges and

'MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

481

Opinion of the Court.

thereby extend their flat St. Louis rates to the territory
served by the Railway, while doing so with respect to
the territory served by the Terminal, is contrary to the
indisputable character of the testimony and inconsistent
in law with the very facts found by the Commission. To
this we cannot accede. It is not any and every discrimination, preference, and prejudice that are denounced by
the Commerce Act. Section 3 (Act of February 4, 1887,
c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 380) renders unlawful any "undue
or unreasonable" preference or advantage, prejudice or
disadvantage. In the same section the requirement of
"all reasonable, proper, and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic" is qualified so as not to require one carrier to give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another. And in the first paragraph of amended § 15 (36
Stat. 551) it is rates, regulations, or practices that in the
opinion of the Commission are "unjustly discriminatory,
or unduly preferential or prejudicial," etc., to which the
prohibition is to be applied.
Whether a preference or advantage or discrimination
is undue or unreasonable or unjust is one of those questions of fact that have been confided by Congress to the
judgment and discretion of the Commission (Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 170), and upon which its decisions, made the
basis of administrative orders operating in futuro, are
not to be disturbed by the courts except upon a showing
that they are unsupported by evidence, were made without a hearing, exceed constitutional limits, or for some
other reason amount to an abuse of power. This results
from the provisions of §§ 15 and 16 of the Commerce Act
as amended in 1906 and 1910 (34 Stat. 589-591, c. 3591;
36 Stat. 551-554, c. 309), expounded in familiar decisions.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R.
Co., 215 U. S. 452, 469-470; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; Procter &

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282, 297-298; Interstate Commerce Commissionv. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91.
In the present case the negative finding of the Commission upon the question of undue discrimination was
based upon a consideration of the different conditions of
location, ownership, and operation as between the Railway
and the Terminal. 28 I. C. C. 104, 105; 32 I. C. C. 102.
The conclusions were reached after full hearing, are not
without support in the evidence, and we are unable to say
that they show an abuse of discretion. It may be conceded
that the evidence would have warranted a different finding;
indeed the first report of the Commission was to the contrary; but to annul the Commission's order on this ground
would be to substitute the judgment of a court for the judgment of the Commission upon a matter purely administrative, and this can not be done. UnitedStates v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320; PennsylvaniaCo. v.
United States, 236 U. S. 351, 361. The common use of the
St. Louis Terminal by the fourteen trunk lines under a
single arrangement as to absorption of the terminal charges
does not, as matter of law, entitle the Railway, which has
no trunk line and does terminal switching alone, to precisely the same treatment. United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383, 405, 406; Louisville & Nashville R.
R. Co. v. United States, 242 U. S. 60.
Criticism is directed to the somewhat abstruse distinction drawn by the Commission between allowances or
absorptions made by trunk lines in compensation for services rendered to them and divisions out of joint rates as
for services rendered for the shippers (28 I. C. C. 101-106;
32 I. C. C. 102); but we deem it unnecessary to discuss
the point. See Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, 28; United
States v. Butler County R. R. Co., 234 U. S. 29, 35-36;
O'Keefe v. United States, 240 U. S. 294, 302.
It hardly can have escaped attention that the real con-

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

483

Opinion of the Court.

plaint of appellants respecting the order now under consideration is directed not to what the order requires to be
done, but to what it does not require. It granted a part
of the relief for which appellants had applied to the Commission. Recognizing the Railway as a common carrier
to which allowances and divisions m:ght be accorded by
the trunk lines, and that through routes were in operation
between the Railway and those lines, it fixed the maximum joint rates, and went no further for the present. The
real ground for resorting to the courts in this case is the
failure to fix divisions. In effect the District Court was
asked to perform a function specifically conferred by law
upon the Commission. But that court has only the same
jurisdiction that formerly was vested in the Commerce
Court (Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539; Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219); and it is settled that this does not permit the court to exercise administrative authority where the Commission has failed
or refused to exercise it, or to annul orders of the Commission not amounting to an affirmative exercise of its
powers. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S.
282, 292, et seq.
Complaint is made because reparation was not awarded.
But we are unable to see that proper foundation was laid
for this in the evidence submitted to the Commission.
Nothing more need be said concerning No. 25.
The first question raised in No. 24 is based upon the
language of the second paragraph of § 15 of the Commerce
Act, inserted by the amendment of June 18, 1910, c. 309,
36 Stat. 539, 552.1 It is said that the tariff published by
I "Whenever there shall be filed with the commission any schedule
stating a new individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or any new individual or joint classification, or any new individual or joint regulation or practice affecting any rate, fare, or charge, the commission
shall have, and it is hereby given, authority, either upon complaint
or upon its own initiative without complaint, at once, and if it so or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the Cotton Belt December 7, 1913, was a new tariff within
the meaning of this provision, and while the Commission
was authorized, either upon complaint or on its own initiative, to suspend its operation pending a hearing, this
suspension must not be for a longer period than 120 days
beyond the time when the tariff would otherwise go into
effect unless the hearing could not be concluded within
that period, in which case alone the Commission might
extend the time of suspension for a further period not exceeding six months. It is contended that no hearing on
the matters involved in the suspended tariff was begun
within the 120 days, and therefore the second order of
suspension, and also the order canceling this tariff,
were arbitrary and unlawful; the argument being that
the issues involved in I. C. C. Docket No. 3151 were not
the same as those presented in the matter of the suspended
tariff, L & S. Docket No. 355, and hence there was no
hearing whatever on the latter.
ders, without answer or other formal pleading by the interested carrier
or carriers, but upon reasonable notice, to enter upon a hearing concerning the propriety of such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice; and pending such hearing and the decision thereon
the commission upon filing with such schedule and delivering to the
carrier or carriers affected thereby a statement in writing of its reasons
for such suspension may suspend the operation of such schedule and
defer the use of such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or
practice, but not for a longer period than one hundred and twenty
days beyond the time when such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice would otherwise go into effect; and after full hearing, whether completed before or after the rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice goes into effect, the commission may make
such order in reference to such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after
the rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice had become
effective: Proded, That if any such hearing can not be concluded
within the period of suspension, as above stated, the Interstate
Commerce Commission mav. in its discrptba= extend the time of suspension for a further period not exceeding six montf •

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

485

Opinion of the Court.

The form of the orders made by the Commission in
I. & S. Docket No. 355 lends color to this argument. The
order of December 19, 1913, makes no reference to the
proceedings then pending in I. C. C. Docket No. 3151,
treats the tariff recently filed as "stating new individual
regulations and practices affecting rates and charges,"
declares that the Commission will enter upon a hearing
concerning their propriety, and directs that their operation
be postponed until the 7th of May; while the order of
April 20 refers to the former one, recites that "such hearing cannot be concluded within the period of suspension
above stated," and orders a further suspension until the
7th of November.
But it is not suggested, and there is no ground for supposing, that the parties were misled by the form of these
orders. They were parties to I. C. C. Docket No. 3151,
then pending. The Cotton Belt was one of the carriers
which had canceled the former tariffs authorizing allowances averaging $4.50 per car to the Railway, and the Railway having complained to the Commission of its action, it
answered declaring among other things that it canceled
the tariff for the reason that it was advised that the allowances theretofore made to the Railway were illegal
because the Railway was merely an industrial or tap line
and under the law not entitled to any part of the through
rate, and further that if the Railway was entitled to compensation as a carrier it was not entitled to receive from the
Cotton Belt any allowance out of the through rate; that if
entitled to any it was not entitled to the allowance theretofore paid to it under the canceled tariff, and that the allowance given to the Railway was unreasonable, excessive,
and unjust.
The issues raised by this answer and by the answers of
the other defendant trunk lines, which are briefly recited
in the first report (21 I. C. C. 307) but need not be here
repeated, necessarily involved, and were treated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Commission as involving, the question how much could
be allowed by the trunk lines to the Railway out of the
through rate without amounting to an undue preference
or indirect rebate to the Brewery because of the common control of the Brewery and the Railway. Special
attention was called to this in the first report, as appears
from what has been recited in the statement prefacing
this opinion. And it is obvious that the same consideration was inherent in the case, whether the payments by
the trunk lines to the Railway were considered as divisions
of joint rates for services rendered for the shippers served
by the Railway, or absorptions in compensation for services rendered by the Railway for the trunk lines. In
either case, if the allowances to the Railway were made unduly large, the Brewery's share of the profit accruing from
them would amount to an indirect preference to the Brewery. Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, 28; O'Keefe v. United
States, 240 U. S. 294, 301-302. Accordingly, in the second
report (28 I. C. C. 107), the Commission said: "Complainant railway itself concedes that this question of the
amount of the allowance to the railway, but not the question of whether a reasonable allowance should be made, is
a matter for closer investigation owing to the common ownership of the stock of the railway and of the brewery, its
statement in this respect, however, being based of course
upon the understanding that the allowance was to come
from the trunk lines." And in the concluding part of its
report, the Commission stated (p. 111): "Should one or
more of the trunk lines attempt to pay to the railway
[more than] the $2 per car which we suggest herein as being in our opinion reasonable for the latter's shippers to
pay for its service, another question would be presented
in which would figure the fact, much discussed in the record, of the common ownership of the stock of the railway
and of the brewery. That question would not arise primarily under section 15 of the act, but under those sections

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

487

Opinion of the Court.

which seek to prohibit the giving of unlawful concessions by
any device whatsoever. It follows from what we have said
herein that we regard the present allowances which, as
stated, average slightly above $4.50 per car, as effecting unlawful results." This was on June 21, 1913; pursuant to
the report the criticised allowances were canceled; and on
November 13 in the same year the case was submitted to
the Commission upon a rehearing at the instance of the Railway. The Cotton Belt remained a party to the proceeding. The issues raised by its answer had not been finally
disposed of, nor its answer withdrawn. Since it involved
the public interests, and not merely those of the Cotton
Belt, this particular issue hardly could be withdrawn.
The question of the validity of the previous allowances,
approximately $4.50 per car, or of any allowance greater
than $2.00 per car, being thus bound up in the pending
controversy under I. C. C. Docket No. 3151, the Cotton
Belt tariff published December 7, 1913, while the Commission had that controversy under advisement, manifestly
was an attempt to forestall the decision. There was no
error in suspending it pending the decision. And, there
being nothing further to be submitted to the Commission
in the way of evidence or argument, it was natural, and
not inconsistent with the substantial rights of the parties,
for the Commission to treat the suspension of the Cotton
Belt tariff as a proceeding ancillary to the other, involving no different question on the merits.
The final order setting this tariff aside necessarily rested
upon a finding that the proposed absorption was so unduly
large as to amount to a preference or indirect rebate to the
Brewery. In orders of this kind, not including an award
of damages, formal and precise findings no longer are necessary; § 14 having been amended in this respect by Act of.
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 589. See House Report No. 591, 59th Cong., 1st sess., p. 4, explaining this
provision of the bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

What we have said disposes at the same time of the only
objection raised against the order of April 20, 1914.
The Railway makes the additional contention that the
order of July 10, 1914 (I. & S. Docket No. 355), prohibited
the Cotton Belt from paying to the Railway as much as
$4.50 per car for its services, and that it amounted to a taking of the Railway's property without due process of law in
violation of the Fifth Amendment, because any rate less
than that named would be confiscatory. That the order has
the effect of prohibiting the Cotton Belt from paying to the
Railway as much as $4.50 per car is alleged in the petition of the appellants and admitted in the answer of the
United States, and we take it for granted that this is so.
It is argued that it was operative upon all the trunk lines,
and it is contended that payments by all of these lines
upon all interstate car interchanges of any rate less than
$4.50 per car would not yield in the aggregate a reasonable return upon the fair value of the Railway's property
devoted to the use of interstate commerce.
As a part of the argument, it is urged that the decision of
the Commission actually limits the earnings of the Railway to $2.50 per car, alleged to be wholly inadequate.
But the order under attack in this suit has no such effect;
and the contemporaneous order under I. C. C. Docket No.
3151 merely limits the joint rates to not exceeding $2.50
in advance of the St. Louis rates, and does not deal with
the divisions; the opinion expressed upon this point being
only tentative.
Appellees contend that the finding of the Commission
upon the subject of confiscation is conclusive; or at least
that it is not subject to be attacked upon evidence not
presented to the Commission, as is attempted here. We
cannot sustain this objection in its entirety. It is true that
so long as the Commission proceeds in accordance with the
requirements of the Commerce Act and its amendments,
and with proper regard for constitutional restrictions, its

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

489

Opinion of the Court.

administrative orders, not calling for the payment of
money, if made after due hearing and supported by evidence, are not subject to attack in the courts. This, as we
have seen, results from the provisions of §§ 15 and 16 of
the act as amended. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 469-470; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
222 U. S. 541, 547; Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States,

225 U. S. 282, 297-298; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91. But
these cases recognize that matters of constitutional right
are not to be conclusively determined by the Commission;
and we are not prepared to say that a party is debarred
from attacking an order of the Commission upon constitutional grounds even though they were not taken in
the hearing before that body.
Nevertheless, correct practice requires that, in ordinary cases, and where the opportunity is open, all the pertinent evidence shall be submitted in the first instance to
the Commission, and that a suit to set aside or annul its
order shall be resorted to only where the Commission acts
in disregard of the rights of the parties. This was recognized before the amendment of 1906, and when by §§ 14,15,
and 16 of the original Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24
Stat. 379, 384, as amended by Act of March 2, 1889, c.
382, 25 Stat. 855, the findings made by the Commission
upon questions of fact were limited in their effect to that
of primafacieevidence in all cases and not only, as now, in
reparation cases. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.
184, 196; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 235, 238; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648, 675; East Tennessee &c. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
181 U. S. 1, 27; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454. The 1906

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

amendment, in modifying § 14 so as to dispense with the
necessity of formal findings of fact except in cases where
damages (or reparation) are awarded, and §§ 15 and 16 so
as to give a greater effect than before to the orders of th
Commission other than those requiring the payment of
money, renders it not less but more appropriate that, so
far as practicable, all pertinent objections to action proposed by the Commission and the evidence to sustain
them shall first be submitted to that body. Hence, we cannot approve of the course that was pursued in this case,
of withholding from the Commission essential portions of
the evidence that is alleged to show the rate in question
to be confiscatory. Certainly, where the Commission, after full hearing, has set aside a given rate on the ground
that it is unreasonably high, it should require a clear case
to justify a court, upon evidence newly adduced but not
in a proper sense newly discovered, in annulling the action
of the Commission upon the ground that the same rate is
so unreasonably low as to deprive the carrier of its constitutional right of compensation.
However, the issue is in the case and must be dealt
with. In order to show that any rate less than $4.50
would be non-compensatory, the Railway undertook to
demonstrate that the full $4.50 would not pay the cost
of transportation and yield a just return upon the value
of its property. Yet the rates voluntarily established
by the Railway prior to the commencement of the present controversy averaged about $4.50 per car, a $4.50
rate was provided for in a tariff issued by the Railwar
in February, 1913, a uniform allowance of this amount was
asked for by it upon the second hearing before the Commission, and the Railway concurred in, and now seeks
to maintain, the Cotton Belt tariff which contemplated
payment of that rate for its services. Besides, the rate
may be compared with $3 per car charged by the Terminal for similar services, $2 per car fixed by city ordi-

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

491

Dpinion of the Court.

nance as the Railway's maximum charge for local shipments between any points on its line, the charge of $1
per car voluntarily established by the Railway for intraplant movements, 25 cents per car for weighing movements, and the special charge of $1 per car on limited
liability, obtaining between the Railway and the Cotton
Belt and offered to other carriers. The evidential effect
of the Railway's voluntary action is obvious. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co., 186 U. S. 320, 336.
Moreover, upon the second hearing before the Commission (January, 1912), Mr. Moore, the President of
the Railway, testifying in its behalf upon the very point
and from a full knowledge of the operations of the company and its property and expense accounts, stated:
"The revenue which we are now receiving for all kinds
of service performed by the Manufacturers Railway Company is sufficient to pay operating expenses, taxes, rentals,
and other fixed charges and 7 per cent. on the investment."
The evidence produced by the Railway before the District Court, while quite inconsistent with these conces-'
sions, is adduced as a mathematical demonstration that
the $4.50 rate is confiscatory. The principal witnesseswere an expert in the valuation of railways, two real
estate experts, and Mr. Moore, the President of the Railway. Opinion evidence was relied upon, basing values
on estimated cost of reproduction less depreciation, it
being stated that the records of the Railway had been
kept in such a way as not to show the actual cost. A table
was presented ("Summary D") stating the entire value
of the property of the Railway on January 1, 1915, at
$2,215,353.78, and deductions were made of capital expenditures during the previous eighteen months, in order
to show the value as of June 30, 1913, and June 30, 1914.
It was attempted to assign to the interstate business a
proportion of the total value corresponding to the extent

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

of its employment in that business. Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 461. The value of the property
as of June 30, 1913, according to the estimates, was
$2,086,474.98; and it being found that the interstate
car movements during the preceding fiscal year were
79.58 per cent. of the total traffic, an application of
this percentage to the total value gave $1,659,227.08
as the proportion of the value of the property, based
on use, assigned to interstate traffic for the fiscal
year 1913. Operating expenses, taxes, and rentals for
the same year were said to amount to $195,628.80, of
which 79.58 per cent., or $155,681.39, was apportioned to
interstate business. The gross revenue from interstate
business for the same year, on the assumed basis of $4.50
per car from all trunk lines on all car interchanges,
was calculated to be $217,309.25. Deducting from
this the apportioned expenses ($155,681.39) would leave
a net revenue of $61,627.86, or only 3.7 per cent. of
$1,659,227.08, the value of the property assigned on
the basis of use to interstate traffic as of June 30, 1913.
Similar processes showed apparent net earnings of only
1.86 per cent. for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, and
.77 per cent. for the six months ending December 31, 1914.
The calculations are complex, and we need not reproduce them in detail. We have indicated the outlines,
and will analyze the figures only far enough to show that
they do not amount to a demonstration.
By way of contrast to the results deduced from opinion
evidence concerning values, it should be remarked that
Mr. Moore testified in the District Court that at the
commencement of his connection with the company in
February, 1909, he could only find an apparent book
value amounting to $300,899.65, which he believed,
however, did not reflect the value of the railway property at that time; and that down to January 31, 1915,
there had been improvements and additions to the equip-

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

493

Opinion of the Court.

ment amounting to $560,008.75, and additions to real
estate amounting to $525,349, making a total book
value of $1,386,257.40. By deducting $128,878.80 for
capital expenditures subsequent to June 30, 1913, we
get $1,257,378.60 as the total value on that date, of which
79.58 per cent., or $1,000,621.89, would represent the
value assigned to the interstate business according to
the formula; and upon this amount the calculated net
revenue of $61,627.86 would yield over 6 per cent.
Returning to the calculation relied upon by the Railway, Summary D includes an item "Present Value of
Leases, $757,102."
This is the sum of two items, explained as follows:
The Railway holds under lease from the Brewery all the
lands occupied by its tracks and certain tracks owned
by the Brewery within what is described as the "Brewery
Zone," bounded by Lynch Street on the north, First
Street on the east, Utah Street on the south, and Thirteenth Street on the west, the rental being $24,000 per
annum, and the lease having seventeen years to run from
January 1, 1915. The real estate experts valued this
according to its area in square feet, and by this process
arrived at $1,377,853 as its market value. The rental
value on a 5 per cent. basis would be $68,892.65. Since
by the terms of the lease the lessor was required to pay
the taxes, estimated at about $6,000, reducing the net
income to about $18,000, this sum was deducted from
$68,892.65, leaving $50,892.65 as the annual value of
the lease to the Railway for the unexpired term of seventeen years; and the cash value of an annuity of that
amount for that term, said to be $573,767, was taken
as the capital value of the lease.' Again, the Railway
'The process is clearly erroneous. Payment of taxes by lessor is
for its own account, not for lessee's. Annual cost of leasehold to lessee
is measured by gross rental paid, irrespective of what lessor does with
the money.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

holds certain property in its River Yard under lease from
the City of St. Louis at an annual rental of $4,000, expiring October 7, 1934. This property was estimated by
the witnesses to be worth $376,309, 5 per cent. of which
is $18,815.45, and this amount less $4,000 was taken
to be the annual value of the lease, which, capitalized
for 19 years, 9 months and 7 days, the unexpired term
from January 1, 1915 (date of valuation), gave $183,335
as the value of this lease to the lessee.
We are not convinced that these somewhat speculative valuations of the leaseholds, even if the calculations
were otherwise correct, ought to be included in the value
of the Railway's property for the present purpose.
The lease from the Brewery includes sidings, tracks,
and yards some of which are of special value to the
Brewery, but either are inaccessible to the general public
served by the tracks of the Railway or are practically
monopolized for plant use by the Brewery. The Commission, in its Second Report, 28 I. C. C. 96, described
the conditions.' The original lease from the Brewery to
I The squares bounded by the streets Ninth, Thirteenth, Lynch,
and Dorcas; Ninth, Eleventh, Pestalozzi, and Arsenal; and Second,
Broadway (Broadway being just south of Seventh), Pestalozzi, and
Arsenal are devoted to buildings and yards of the brewery exclusively.
Although within these bounded areas there are also others in addition
to the three following-named departments, they will, for the sake of
convenience, be referred to as the bottling department, Budweiser
department, and keg department, respectively. The tracks serving
all three of these departments are in and between buildings and sheds
of the brewery or in the yards adjoining, and are practically inclosedon some, sides by buildings with passageways between and on the
other sides by fences or walls surrounding the yards contiguous to
the buildings All of the tracks within these yards are essential to
the operation of the brewery except four team tracks in the yards
contiguous to the bottling department at Ninth and Dorcas. As bearing upon the accessibility by the public to these various departments,
it may be explained that the tracks in the open yard of the bottling
department-that is, on the Ninth and Dorcas streets sides-are in-

UMANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

495

Opinion of the Court.

the Railway, dated December 31, 1908, drew a distinction
between tracks and sidings, leasing the former and excluding the latter, as to which, however, it contained
this clause: "Said Association further gives and grants
to said Railway the right and privilege to use and operate the aforesaid sidings, for railway purposes, upon condition, however, that such use will never interfere with
the reasonable use thereof by said Association, of which
said Association shall be the sole and only judge." This
was made the subject of criticism at the first hearing before the Commission, and in consequence the lease was
amended before the second hearing so as to omit this limitation (28 I. C. C. 97). But the evidence tends to show,
if it does not render it clear, that certain yards and tracks
representing more than one-third of the aggregate value
of the leased lands are used almost if not quite exclusively by the Brewery; and raises a question whether
some of the other yards, or portions of them, are not,
like those mentioned, actually used rather as parts of
the Brewery plant than as parts of the transportation
system of the Railway.
closed by an iron fence, on which are displayed "No Thoroughfare"
signs, and that the four public team tracks in this yard, referred to,
end on the edge of an embankment supported by a concrete wall
built up from Ninth street, which is some 10 or 12 feet below, and
topped with an iron fence; that the tracks at the Thirteenth street
side of this department are ended some 10 or 15 feet below the street
level by a stone wall and must therefore be reached by entries from
other sides; that the team tracks in the Budweiser yard at Ninth and
Pestalozzi are inclosed by a high iron fence with swinging gates; and,
likewise, that the 25 or more ladder tracks in the yards of the keg department, beginning at Second and Pestalozzi and running west to
Broadway, are ended some 25 feet below the level of Broadway by
an embankment which is reinforced by a concrete or stone wall topped
with an iron fence. As access to the latter department from the Broadway side is thus absolutely impracticable, entrance must be effected
from Pestalozzi street or between buildings of the brewery on the Arsenal street side between Second and Broadway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The finding of the Commission that the Railway is for
the purposes of its decision a common carrier (a finding
not now in question), does not have the necessary effect
of impressing all of its property with the character of
property employed in the service of the public. The
Commission recognized that there was a question whether
a part of the service performed by the Railway was not a
plant-facility service rather than that of a common carrier.
21 I. C. C. 316. And under the peculiar circumstances
of the case we prefer to accept the reserved rental of
824,000, voluntarily fixed by the parties most concerned
at a time antedating the present controversy, as more reliable evidence of the annual value of the rights conferred
upon the Railway as a carrier than the opinions of the
experts based upon the theory that by the lease the entire
value of the property was devoted to the public use.
The lease from the City to the Railway is not in the
printed transcript, but the substance of the ordinance
authorizing it is stated. It granted authority to construct,
maintain, and operate tracks upon land of which a considerable part constituted a public wharf. If the stipulated rental is less than the fair annual value of the
property it is to be presumed that the grant of the excess was to the public, not to the private interest of the
Railway. We are at a loss to see upon what principle a
presumed annual value of the leasehold in excess of the
stipulated rent can be capitalized as assets of the Railway for the use of which in commerce the public is required to pay tolls. This would give to the lease the effect of converting public property, pro tanto, into private
property.
Deducting the value of the leases, $757,102, from $2,086,474.98, the estimated value of the Railway's property as
of June 30, 1913, would leave $1,329,372.98, of which
79.58 per cent., or $1,057,915.02, would represent the value
assigned to the interstate business according to the for-

MANUFACTURERS RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
457.

497

Opinion of the Court.

mula; and upon this amount the calculated net revenue
of $61,627.86, would yield over 5.8 per cent.
The calculations of revenue and expenses also require revision. The gross revenue from interstate business as stated
includes not merely that derived from car interchanges at
$4.50 per car, of which in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1913, there were 45,602 cars, producing $205,209; but in
addition there were short-haul interchanges, 4,975 cars at
the city rate of $2 per car, producing $9,950; inter-plant
and intra-plant movements, 1,206 cars at $1 per car, producing $1,206; and weighing movements, 3,777 cars at 25
cents, producing $944.25, making a total of $217,309.25.
The evidence renders it clear that the cost of these different
movements is not and cannot be segregated; and Mr.
Moore himself testified in effect that it costs the same to
the Railway to weigh a car upon which 25 cents revenue is
received, as to make an intra-plant switch of a car for which
$1 is received, or a city movement limited by ordinance
to $2, or an interchange delivery for which $4.50 is the rate
assumed for the purposes of the test. The plant movements are for the benefit of the Brewery alone, that being
the only industry having need for such service; weighing
movements likewise appear to be independent of transportation in commerce. The limit of $2 fixed by the ordinance for the city movements seems to have been a part
of the consideration for the grant to the Railway of rights
in the streets; and on this theory any deficiency of revenue
is properly apportionable to the traffic participating in
these movements. But as to the other movements, the
method of calculation adopted apportions the cost between
the different classes according to the revenue derived from
each, rather than according to the cost or value of the
service.
If the plant and weighing movements-all of the former
and three-fourths of the latter being performed for the
Brewery-were charged at (say) $2.50 per car instead of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

246 U. S.

rates voluntarily adopted, the gain of revenue would be
more than $10,000-approximately 1 per cent. upon the
entire $1,057,915.02.
The evidence submitted upon the issue of confiscation
suggests other questions that need not be discussed or
even bnentioned; but we must not be understood as accepting what we have not particularly criticized. It is sufficient to say there is a failure to prove that the rate is unremunerative.
Decrees affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE HouwsS took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.

DALTON ADDING MACHINE COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA AT THE RELATION
OF THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 176.

Argued March 11, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

A material part of the business conducted in Virginia by plaintiff in
error-a foreign corporation-was intrastate, and the company was
therefore subject to the licensing power of the State.
118 Virginia, 563, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas A. Banning and Mr. Harold S. Bloomberg,
for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. J. D. Hank, Jr., Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, for defendant in error.

