276

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

Unfortunately for the validity of this argument the provision of the statute is not that the proceeds of the insurance policies may be held "free from the claims" of
creditors who participated in the bankruptcy proceedings,
but only from the claims of creditors "participatingin the
distribution of the estate in the bankruptcy proceedings."
Whether a line of discrimination between such two
classes of creditors is wise or logical is not for us to decide.
It is enough that it lies plainly obvious upon the face of
the statute. No dividend was paid creditors until after
the defendants in error by order of the court had been
excluded from participation in the distribution of the
estate, and it is stipulated in the agreed case that no
payment was made to either of them. The meaning of
the proviso is too plain for discussion or interpretation
and that the defendants in error did not "participate in
the distribution of the estate in the bankruptcy proceedings" is clear. The judgments of the Court of Errors and
Appeals of the State of New Jersey must be
Affirmed.

GREAT

NORTHERN

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

ALEXANDER, ADMINISTRATOR OF HALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 130. Argued January 15, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

A case arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act between
citizens of different States is not removable from a state to a federal
District Court on either ground.
In the absence of a fraudulent purpose to defeat removal, the status,
with respect to removability, of a case alleged to be one arising under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act depends not upon what the
defendant may allege or prove or what the court may, after hearing

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. ALEXANDER.
276.

277

Opinion of the Court.

upon the merits, in invtum order, but solely upon the form which the
plaintiff voluntarily gives to his pleadings initially and as the case
progresses.
Therefore, where the complaint states a cause under the Federal Act,
the failure of the plaintiff to prove that the employee was engaged in
interstate commerce when injured will not leave the case rermovable
because of diverse citizeship appearing in the complaint. A contention to the contrary is not a claim of federal right of sufficient
substance to afford this court jurisdiction to review a state court's
judgment.
Writ of error to review 51 Montana, 565, dismissed.
TH case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. I. ParkerVeazey, Jr.,with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. B. Nolan for defendant in error.
MR. JusTic. Ci im

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents for decision the question whether
the non-removable case stated in the complaint became
one subject to removal when the plaintiff rested his case
and, as the defendant claimed, it became apparent that
the allegation of the complaint that the deceased was
employed in interstate commerce when killed was not
sustained by the evidence.
We shall designate the parties as they were in the trial
court, the defendant in error as plaintiff and the plaintiff
in error as defendant.
The suit was commenced in a district court of Montana
and is one to recover damages for wrongful death. The
plaintiff was a citizen of Montana when the case was
commenced and he alleges in his complaint, that the
defendant was an interstate carrier, organized under the
laws of the State of Minnesota at the time the accident
occurred; that the deceased was a conductor employed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the defendant in interstate commerce at the time he was
killed, and that the proximate cause of the accident was
the failure of defendant to fence its line, which resulted in
the derailing of the car on which plaintiff's decedent was
employed, causing his instant death.
The defense is a denial that deceased was employed in
interstate commerce when injured, and a denial of negligence in the failure to fence, with a plea of assumption
of risk.
When the plaintiff rested his case the defendant "moved
for a judgment of non-suit and dismissal upon the
merits,"

. . . "based upon the complaint of the

plaintiff and upon the testimony adduced."
This motion asserted in various forms that the evidence
introduced failed to show any actionable negligence on
the part of the defendant and concluded with a fifth paragraph, alleging, in substance, as follows:
That there was a fatal variance, amounting to failure
of proof, between the allegation of the complaint that the
deceased was employed in interstate commerce at the
time he was injured and the evidence introduced; . . .
that, this variance is substantial in that, with the complaint
charging that the deceased was killed while engaged in
interstate commerce, the defendant could not remove said
case to the federal court, whereas if the case as made by
the proof had been made, to wit, an intrastate case, it
could have been removed; and hence the failure to recognize the variance would operate to deny to the defendant
a right under a statute or law of the United States, to
wit, the right to remove such a case properly pleaded to
the federal court.
The trial court having overruled this motion, the defendant introduced its evidence in defense and after the
plaintiff's rebuttal was concluded renewed its motion,
which was again denied, the defendant reserving its exception, and thereupon the case was submitted to the jury

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. ALEXANDER. 279
276.

• Opinion of the Court.

and judgment was entered on the verdict in favor of the
plaintiff.
On review the Supreme Court of Montana held that
the trial court had erred, and should have ruled that on
the evidence adduced the deceased was not employed in
interstate commerce when injured, but holding that the
defendant had waived its right to remove by failing to
file a petition for removal, as required by law, the court
went forward and held that a case of negligence at common law was stated in the complaint, and that the evidence introduced justified the trial court in submitting the
case to the jury, and that the judgment must be afimed.
In disposing of the question presented by this motion
for "non-suit and dismissal" which we are considering,
the Supreme Court of Montana said:
"We recall but one respect in which a defendant can be
seriously prejudiced in such a situation, and that is where,
by reason of diverse citizenship, removal of the cause to
the federal court might be in order. In such a situation,
however, the defendant must assert its right, under penalty of waiver, by filing a petition to remove at the first
opportunity. . .
. This the appellant did not do;
instead, and with the knowledge of its right to have the
cause removed, it submitted to the jurisdiction of the
state court in which the trial occurred, by seeking a dismissal for variance as well as for failure to show the breach
by it of any legal duty to the decedent under either state
or federal law."
No claim is made that the allegation that the plaintiff's
decedent was employed in interstate commerce was incorporated into the complaint fraudulently or in bad
faith, for the purpose of defeating the right of the defendant to remove the case to the federal court.
The claim now made in this court by the defendant is
that the state Supreme Court correctly held that the
evidence introduced failed to show that the deceased was

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court..

246 U. S.

employed in interstate commerce when he was injured,
but that it committed reversible error and denied to the
defendant the federal right to remove the case when it
held that the right to remove had been waived, and
affirmed the judgment instead of reversing and remanding
the case to the lower court for further proceedings.
The plaintiff replies to this claim with the contention
that the court is without jurisdiction to review the decision of the state Supreme Court for the reason that no
federal right was denied to the plaintiff in error at any
stage of the proceeding in the state court.
It is, of course, familiar law that the right of removal
being statutory, a suit commenced in a state court must
remain there intil cause is shown for its transfer under
some act of Congress (Gold Washing & Water Co. v. Keyes,
96 U. S. 199; Jud. Code, Chap. 3, §§ 28, 39).
The allegation of the complaint that the deceased was
employed in interstate commerce when injured brought
the case within the scope of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, and it would have been removable either
for diversity of citizenship or as a case arising uider a
law of the United States, except for the prohibition against
removal contained in the amendment to the act, approved
April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291. But this allegation r6ndered
the case, -at the time it was commenced, clearly not removable on either ground (Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Leslie, 238 U. S. 599; Southern Ry. Co. v. Lloyd, 239
U. S. 496).
The removal provisions of the Judicial Code, Chapter 3,
§§ 28 to 39, inclusive, in effect when this case was tried,
were substantially the same as they have been since the
Removal Act of 1888 was passed, and that a case not
removable when commenced may afterwards become removable is settled by Ayers v. Watson, 113 U. S. 594;
Martin'sAdministratorv. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 151
U. S. 673, 688, 691; Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.,

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. ALEXANDER. 281
276.

Opinion of the Court.

169 U. S. 92, and Fritzlen v. Boatmen's Bank, 212 U. S.
364. Under the doctrine of these cases the defendant,
admitting the non-removable character of the case at bar
when it was commenced, argues that the failure of the
plaintiff to prove his allegation that the deceased was employed in interstate commerce when he was injured, left
the complaint as if the allegation had not been incorporated into it, and that therefore the case became removable for diversity of citizenship when the. plaintiff
rested his case.
But unfortunately for the validity of this contention it
has been frequently decided by this court that whether a
case arising, as this one does, under a law of the United
States is removable or not, when it is commenced (there
be'ng no claim of fraudulent attempt to evade removal,)
is to be determined by the allegations of the complaint or
petition and that if the case is not then removable it cannot be made removable by any statement in the petition
for removal or in subsequent pleadings by the defendant.
Tennessee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Cody, 166 U.'S. 606; Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74.
It is also settled that a case, arising under the laws of
the United States, non-removable on the complaint, when
commenced, cannot be converted into a removable one
by evidence of the defendant or by an order of the court
upon any issue tried upon the merits, but that such conversion can only be accomplished by the voluntary amendment of his pleadings by the plaintiff or, where the case
is not removable because of joinder of defendants, by the
voluntary dismissal or nonsuit by him of a party or of
parties defendant. Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Herman,
187 U. S. 63; Alabama Great SouthernRy. Co. v. Thompson,
200 U. S. 206; Lathrop, Shea & Henwood Co. v. Interior
Construction Co., 215 U. S. 246; American Car & Foundry
Co. v. Kettelhake, 236 U. S. 311.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The obvious principle of these decisions is that, in the
absence of a fraudulent purpose to defeat removal, the
plaintiff may by the allegations of his complaint determine the status with respect to removability of a case,
arising under a law of the United States, when it is commenced, and that this power to determine the removability
of his case continues with the plaintiff throughout the
litigation, so that whether such a case non-removable
when commenced shall afterwards become removable
depends not upon what the defendant may allege or prove
or what the court may, after hearing upon the merits, in
invitum, order, but solely upon the form which the plaintiff by his voluntary action shall give to the pleadings
in the case as it progresses towards a conclusion.
The result of the application of this principle to the case
at bar is not doubtful.
The plaintiff did not at any time admit that he had
failed to prove the allegation that the deceased was employed in interstate commerce when injured, and he did
not amend his complaint, but, on the contrary, he has
contended at every stage of the case and in his brief in
this court still contends that the allegation was supported
by the evidence. The first holding to the contrary was
by the state Supreme Court and the most that can be
said of that decision is that the defendant prevailed in a
matter of defense which it had pleaded, but, as we have
seen, this does not conv6rt a non-removable case into a
removable one, in the absence of voluntary action on the
part of the plaintiff, and it therefore results that the defendant did not at any time have the right to remove
the case to the federal court, which it claims was denied
to it, and that therefore, there being no substance in the
claim of denial of federal right, this court is without jurisdiction to review the decision of the Supreme Court of
Montana and the writ of error must be
Dismissed.

