EGAN v. McDONALD.
220.

Syllabus.

here relied on. The right to vote is personal and we have
held it is shielded by the section in question. Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; United States v. Mosley, supra.

The same is true of the right to make homestead entry,
United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 76; also, of the right
of one held by a United States marshal to protection
against lawless violence. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263. While the opinion in United States v. Gradwell,supra,
does not determine the precise question now presented,
it proceeds upon reasoning which contravenes the theory
urged by counsel for the Government.
The court below properly construed the statute and
its judgments are
Affirmed.

EGAN v. McDONALD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 88. Submitted January 28, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Under § 7 of the At of May 27, 1902, c. 888, 32 Stat. 275, an Indian
allotment held under trust patent and subject to the restrictions on
alienation imposed by the Act of March 2, 1889, § 11, c. 405, 25
Stat. 888, may, upon the death of the allottee, be conveyed by his
heirs with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and the
approved deed passes the full title.
Where such a conveyance was made in 1908, and the Secretary approved it in 1909, held, that there was no law then in force making
an adjudication of heirship, either by a federal court or by the Secretary, a condition precedent to the validity of the conveyance.
McKay v. Kalylon, 204 U. S. 458, distinguished.
Upon error to a state court in a case where a vendee sued to recover
back earnest money paid his vendor, upon the ground that the title
tendered by the latter was not merchantable, and where the vendor
proved a conveyance of the land 'by certain heirs of the Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

allottee thereof, which recited that they were the only heirs and was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, held, that whether the
burden was upon the plaintiff to establish that there were other
heirs, and whether the suggestion that there may have been such
rendered the title unmerchantable, were questions of state law not
reviewable by this court.
Whether the mere approval of such conveyance by the Secretary would
operate to convey a good title if it had appeared that the deed was
executed by a part of the heirs only-not decided.
36 S. Dak. 92, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Egan pro se.
Mr. Charles 0. Bailey and Mr. John H. Voorhees for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE BR

DEms delivered the opinion of the court.

Egan agreed to buy of McDonald a parcel of land in
South Dakota and paid $1,000 to bind the bargain. McDonald agreed to furnish a merchantable title. After
examining the abstract, Egan asserted that the title was
not merchantable, demanded back his money, and, upon
refusal, brought an action in a state court to recover it.
Upon substantially undisputed facts judgment was entered for defendant and was affirmed on appeal by the
Supreme. Court of South Dakota (36 S. Dak. 92). The
case comes here on writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial Code.
McDonald's title was this: (1) A twenty-five year trust
patent dated December 12, 1895, for an Indian allotment
issued to Weasel, under § 11 of Act of Congress, March 2,
1889, c. 405, 25 Stat. 888, 891; (2) Deed to R. J. Huston,
dated October 9, 1908, from Plays and two others therein
described as "sole and only heirs of Weasel, deceased, a
Crow Creek Sioux Indian," approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, March 2, 1909, and thereafter duly re-

EGAN v. McDONALD.
227.

Opinion of the Court.

corded in the Department of the Interior and the Registry of Deeds; (3) A final decree of distribution of the estate of Weasel in the county court making distribution
of the land to Plays and two others as only heirs; (4) Deed
from Huston to McDonald, dated November 3, 1910;
(5) A decree of the state circuit court entered in 1912 in
a suit brought by McDonald to quiet title and declaring
him to be the owner in fee'of the land.
Egan contends that this title was not merchantable,
both because there was no power in the heirs of Weasel
to alienate the property and because there had been no
adjudication in any federal court that the three persons
purporting to convey to Huston were the only heirs of
Weasel.
First: As to the power of Weasel's heirs to convey:
The trust patent was issued under § 11 of the Act of Congress of March 2, 1889. Under the provisions of that
statute and the terms of the trust patent, the heirs, as
well as Weasel, were without power to convey title before
the expiration of the twenty-five years. But, by §7 of
the Act of Congress, May 27, 1902, 32 Stat. 275, adult
heirs were given power to convey with the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior; and it is declared that "such
conveyances

. . . when so approved shall convey a

full title to the purchaser, the same as if a final patent
without restriction upon the alienation had been issued
to the allottee." Congress had, of course, power to remove the restrictions originally imposed upon alienation
by heirs. Williams v. Johnson, 239 U. S. 414, 420.
Second: As to the lack of federal adjudication: Neither
in 1908 when the deed to Huston was executed, nor in
1909 when it was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, was there any provision of law that heirs of an Indian
allottee under a trust patent could make a valid conveyance only if some federal court should first have established that they were the heirs. Nor was there then a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

provision, like that prescribed by Act of June 25, 1910,
c. 431, 36 Stat. 855, that the Secretary of the Interior
shall determine in such case who the legal heirs are. Hallowell v. Commons, 239 U. S. 506. Plaintiff relies upon
McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, 468; but the case does
not decide that adjudication of heirship in a federal court
is a condition precedent to a valid conveyance by heirs.
It decides merely that the Act of August 15, 1894, c. 290,
28 Stat. 286, which gaire to Indians, who claimed to be
entitled to an allotment, the right to litigate their claim
in a federal court, did not confer the right to litigate in
state courts.
Third: The case at bar is not a suit to establish who
'are the heirs of a deceased Indian allottee, nor a suit to
establish the right to an allotment, nor a suit to quiet
title. It is an action at law upon an implied promise to
return the earnest money, if the vendor fails to furnish
Egan a merchantable title. It was admitted that the
persons who joined in the deed to Huston were heirs of
Weasel and that they were adults. The state court held
that, McDonald having shown a deed to Huston approved
by the Secretary of the Interior and executed by three
persons who declared themselves to be the only heirs, the
burden was upon the plaintiff to establish the fact, if it
was such, that there were other heirs; and that the mere
suggestion in argument that there may have been some
additional heirs does not cast such a suspicion upon the
title as to render it unmerchantable. This is a matter of
state law with which we have no concern. Nor have we
occasion to consider whether, as held in Daugherty v.
McFarland, 166 N. W. Rep. 143, the mere approval by
the Secretary of the Interior would have operated to
convey to the grantee a good title, even if it had appeared
that the deed was executed by a part of the heirs only.
The decision of the Supreme Court of South Dakota is

Affirmied.

