CASES ADJUDGED
1lNTHE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

ARMOUR & COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF
VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 127. Argued January 3, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
A law of Virginia (Acts 1915, c. 148, p. 233) imposes a license tax on
merchants doing business in the State based on the amount of purchases during the license period, including as purchases all goods,
wares and merchandise manufactured by the licensee and sold or
offered for sale in the State; but excludes from its operation manufacturers taxed on capital by the State, who offer for sale at the
place of manufacture the goods, wares and merchandise manufactured by them. The Court of Appeals of the State having interpreted this exclusion as open to all, including non-citizens and nonresidents, who manufacture in Virginia, and the license as extending
as well to those who manufacture in Virginia and sell the goods at
places other than the place of manufacture, as to those who manufacture without and sell within the State. Held, that the license
tax, as applied to a New Jersey corporation, and as computed on
the basis of merchandise manufactured by it in other States and
shipped into Virginia for sale at its agencies there, does not offend
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, or
abridge the privileges and immunities of the corporation guaranteed

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

by that Amendment and by Art. IV of the Constitution, or constitute, either inherently or by neceisary operation and effect, an
unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce.
118 Virginia, 242, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Eppa Hunton, Jr., with whom Mr. H. T. Hall was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
It is not denied that under the construction placed upon
this statute by the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
there is no discrimination against manufacturers because
they do not have their residence in the State; but it is
maintained that there is a discrimination against goods
which are not manufactured in Virginia, in-favor of goods
which are manufactured therein, in this, that where
goods are manufactured there the manufacturer may sell
them at the place at which they are manufactured without any merchant's license tax for so doing, and that it is
a matter of common knowledge that the greater part of
manufactured goods are thus sold.
The result of this legislation is that a resident manufacturer, being taxed on his capital in Virginia, has the right
to sell, and does sell, the great bulk of his manufactured
products without paying any merchant's license therefor,
whereas the manufacturer who undertakes to sell goods
not manufactured in Virginia, must pay the merchant's
license tax on all such sales. That this discrimination is
unconstitutional, see Commonwealth v. Myer, 92 Virginia,
809; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Hinson v. Lott,
8 Wall. 148; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Welton v.Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434;
Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Walling v. Michigan,
116 U. S. 446. See especially Brimmer v. Rebman, 138
U. S. 78. This case holds that the constitutionality of a
statute is not determined by the fact that it applies to
residents as well as non-residents, but by its practical

AMOUR & CO. v. VIRGINIA.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

operation, although there may be :6o purpose upon the
part of the legislature to violate the provisions of the
Constitution. Darnell & Son v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113.
Distinguished New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; and Reymann Brewing Co. v.
Brister, 179 U. S. 445.
Mr. J. D. Hank, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, with whom Mr. Jno. Garland Pollard,
Attorney General of the State of Virginia, and Mr. Leon M.
Bazile were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHmF JusTIcE WmTF, delivered the opinion of

the court.
This suit concerns ยง 45 of the Virginia general taxing
statute, as amended in 1915, which is in the margin.' It
will be observed that the section imposes an annual license tax upon all persons or corporations carrying on a
"Every person, firm, company or corporation engaged in the business of a merchant shall pay a license tax for the privilege of doing
business in this State to be graduated by the amount of purchases
made by him during the period for which the license is granted, and
all goods, wares and merchandise manufactured by such merchant and
sold or offered for sale, in this State, as merchandise, shall be considered as purchases within the meaning of this section; provided, that
this section shall not be construed as applying to manufacturers taxed
on capital by this State, who offer for sale at the place of manufacture,
goods, wares and merchandise manufactured by them. To ascertain
the amount of purchases it shall be the duty of such merchant, on the
first day of April of each year, or within ten days thereafter, to make
report in writing, under oath, to the commissioner of the revenue, for
the district for which he was licensed, showing purchases as above defined, and also all goods, wares and merchandise manufactured and
sold or offered for sale in this State during the next preceding twelve
months; except such goods, wares and merchandise as is manufactured by persons, firms and corporations taxed on their capital by this
State...." Acts of 1915, c. 148, p. 233; Virginia Code, vol. 4, p. 594.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

merchandise business at any place in the State, the
amount being determined by the sum of the purchases
during the year. It will be further seen that the amount
of the prchases includes "all goods, wares and merchandise manufactured by such merchant and sold or offered
for sale, in this State, as merchandise," and that the section also contains a provision excluding from the operation of the license "manufacturers taxed on capital by
this State, who offer for sale at the place of manufacture,
goods, waxes and merchandise manufactured by them."
Armour & Company, a New Jersey corporation engaged in the packing house business, and having various
establishments in several States, carried on in Virginia
the merchandise business of selling packing house products at the respective agencies which they had established.
For the purposes of the merchant's license in: question the
company was called upon to return the sum of its purchases, including the amount shipped into the State for
sale at its agencies, whether or not manufactured by it.
The corporation declined to comply and commenced this
suit to enjoin the enforcement of the statute in so far as
it required the inclusion in the amount of purchases of
merchandise manufactured by the corporation in other
States and shipped into Virginia for sale. It was charged
that to the extent stated the statute was in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States because of the provision excluding from liability for license persons who
manufactured merchandise in Virginia and sold the same
at the place of mdnufacture for the following reasons:
(a) Because as the result of such exclusion the statute
discriminated against the company to the extent that it
shipped goods manufactured by it into Virginia to be sold
and therefore was a direct burden on interstate commerce.
(b) Because the statute deprived manufacturers in other
States of the benefit of ยง 2 of Article IV guaranteeing to
the citizens of each State "all privileges and immunities

ARMOUR & CO. v. VIRGINIA.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

of citizens in the several States." And (c) because the
statute in the respects stated was repugnant to the equal
protection and privilege and immunities clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The trial court enjoined the enforcement of the statute
to the extent complained of and its action on appeal was
reversed by the court below. It was held that the statute
was inherently within the state legislative power and that
the difference between a manufacturer selling goods by
him made at the place where they were manufactured and
one engaged in a mercantile business even if his business
consisted in whole or in part of the selling of goods by
him manufactured at a place other than the place of manufacture was such as to afford adequate ground for their
distinct classification and hence justified the provision of
the statute including one in the merchant's license and
excluding the other. In addition, construing the statute,
it was decided that it was not discriminatory since the
exclusion from the license tax of manufacturers selling
at their place of manufacture was open to all whether
non-citizens or even non-residents who manufactured
in Virginia and because the liability for the merchant's
license embraced even those who manufactured in Virginia
if they sold as merchants the goods by them manufactured at a place other than the place of manufacture.
From this latter conclusion it was decided that if any disadvantage resulted to the person selling as a merchant
in Virginia goods manufactured by him in another State
by subjecting him to a license when such license did not
include the manufacturer selling in Virginia at the place
of manufacture, the disadvantage was a mere indirect
consequence of a lawful and non-discriminatory exercise
of state authority and afforded no basis for holding the
statute to be repugnant to the clauses of the Constitution of the United States as contended. 118 Virginia, 242.
All the constitutional grounds which were thus held

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

to be without merit are within the errors assigned and relied upon although predominance in argument is given
to the asserted repugnancy of the statute to the commerce
clause of the Constitution; and we come briefly to consider them all.
In the first place, we are of opinion that the distinction
upon which the classification in the statute rests between
a manufacturer selling goods by him made at their place
of manufacture and one engaged as a merchant in whole
or in part in selling goods of his manufacture at a place
of business other than where they were made is so obvious
as to require nothing but a mere statement of the two
classes. All question concerning the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment may therefore be
put out of view.
In the second place, we are also of opinion that the interpretation given by the court below to the statute excludes all basis for the contention that the provision of
the statute imposing the license tax upon the one class
and not upon the other gave rise to such discrimination
as resulted in a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
And this whether the statute be considered from the
point of view of the power of the State to enact it inherently considered, "or of the power as tested by the necessary operation and effect of the statute, if any, upon interstate commerce and the plenary and exclusive power
of Congress to regulate the same.
In the third place, we also conclude that, as the subject
matter of the statute was plainly within the legislative
authority of the State and as the previous conclusions
exclude thte conception of the repugnancy of the statute
to the provisions of the Constitution just considered, it
necessarily follows that there is no ground for the assertion that the 'statute conflicted with the privileges and
immunities clause of Article IV of the Constitution or of
the clause in the Fourteenth Amendment providing that,

ARMOUR & CO. v. VIRGINIA.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States."
But, it is urged, the statute should be held to be a burden on interstate commerce and repugnant to the Constitution because of the disadvantage to which, it is insisted, it necessarily by way of a license tax subjected
goods manufactured in another State when sold in Virginia by a merchant manufacturing the same, while no
such tax was by the statute imposed on a manufacturer
in Virginia selling his goods so manufactured at the place
of their manufacture. But we have already tested the
statute by its necessary operation and effect and found
it not to be repugnant to the commerce clause. Hence
this argument but repeats in a different form a contention
already disposed of. It follows therefore that, if the asserted disadvantage be real and not imaginary, it would
be one not direct because not arising from the operation
and effect of the statute, but indirect as a mere consequence of the situation of the persons and property affected and of the non-discriminating exercise by the
State of power which it had a right to exert without violating the Constitution-which is indeed but to say that
the disadvantage relied upon, if any, is but the indirect
result of our dual system of government.
In other words, to resume, the error of the argument
results from confounding the direct burden necessarily
arising from a statute which is unconstitutional because
it exercises a power concerning interstate commerce not
possessed or because of the unlawful discriminations
which its provisions express or by operation necessarily
bring about and the indirect and wholly negligible influence on interstate commerce, even if in some aspects detrimental, arising from a statute which there was power
to enact and in which there was an absence of all discrimination, whether express or implied as the result of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

necessary operation and effect of its'provisions. The distinction between the two has been enforced from the beginning as vital to the perpetuation of our constitutional
system. Indeed, as correctly pointed out by the court
below, that principle as applied in adjudged cases is here
directly applicable and authoritatively controlling. New
York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Reymann Brewing Co. v.
Brister, 179 U. S. 445. In saying this we have not overlooked or failed to consider the many cases cited in the
argument at bar on the theory that they are to the contrary, when in fact they all rest upon the conclusion that
a direct burden on interstate commerce arose from statutes inherently void for want of power or if within the
power possessed were intrinsically repugnant to the commerce clause because of discriminations against interstate
commerce which they contained.
Affirmed.

BOSTON STORE OF CHICAGO v. AMERICAN
GRAPHOPHONE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 363. Argued January 16, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Certificates of the facts constituting the basis for questions propounded
to this court by the Circuit Court of Appeals should be prepared
with care and precision.
Where the bill in the District Court claimed protection for a pricefixing contract under the patent laws, and the want of merit in the
claim was not so conclusively settled by decision when the bill was
filed as to make the claim frivolous, the court had jurisdiction to
pass upon the case as made by the bill, that is, to determine whether
the suit arose under those laws.

