OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

INTERNATIONAL & GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. ANDERSON COUNTY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, SIXTH SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 243. Argued March 25, 26, 1918.--Decided April 15, 1918.
With respect to a railroad within its territory, a state court has jurisdiction to decide whether the owner is under a public duty to maintain the offices and shops at a particular place, even though it were
assumed, as a rule of decision, that a foreclosure and confirmed sale
in a federal court conferred immunity from the obligation which that
court alone could withdraw.
Foreclosure and sale of a railroad in a federal court will not relieve the
purchaser from a contractual or statutory duty, which rested on its
predecessors under the state law, to maintain offices and shops at a
particular place, if the state law holds the obligation indelible by
foreclosure.
The prohibition against removal of offices and shops located by contract within a county in consideration of county bond aid extends,
under the Texas Office-Shops Act of 1889, to the successor by mortgage foreclosure of the contracting railroad.
In its provision that offices and shops shall be at the place named in
the charter, and if no certain place is there named then at such place
as the company shall have contracted to locate them, etc., this statute
does not intend that a valid contract for location may be evaded by
a purchasing company by naming another place in its charter filed
under a general law.
Sembe, that a contract to maintain the offices and shops of a railroad
at a particular place survives mortgage foreclosure and sale of the
railroad where the purchaser succeeds to the mortgagor's franchise
to be a corporation.
Semble, that, generally speaking, a state legislature, dealing with a
local railroad corporation, has power to fix the place of its domicile
and principal offices.
A corporation, organized under general laws expressly declaring that
charters thereunder should be subject to provisions and limitations
imposed by law, while another act prohibited changing locations of
railroad offices and shops in certain cases, purchased a railroad under

INTERNAT'L & G. N. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON CO. 425
42.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

proceedings foreclosing a mortgage. Held, that whether or not
the prohibition would have been constitutional as applied to the
company's predecessors, it was a condition of its incorporation of
which it could not complain.
In so far as it depends upon the testimony, the verdict of a jury, upon
an issue requested by the complaining party, finding that a state
regulation as to location of railway offices and shops does not burden
interstate commerce, will be accepted.
Held, that the burden, if any, in this case, upon interstate commerce,
due to a state law forbidding change of location of a railway's offices
and shops, is indirect, and that the state power was not exceeded.
A decree of injunction which properly will be operative until the law
is changed may properly be expressed as perpetual.
174 S. W. Rep. 305, affirmed.

TH case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. M. Garwood and Mr. Samuel B. Dabney, with
whom Mr. F. A. Williams, Mr. N. A. Stedman and Mr.
Frank Andrews were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
The Circuit Court for the Northern District of Texas
had exclusive jurisdiction, reserved in the foreclosure decree of May, 1910, under which the properties were sold
out, and the state court had no jurisdiction.
This litigation is in conflict with the right, title, privileges and immunities protected by the decrees of the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas entered
on foreclosures of four mortgages in 1879, and by the
decree of the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Texas, entered on foreclosure in May, 1910.
The state court had no power in this collateral proceeding to declare the three decrees of 1879 not to be bona
fide, and to be fraudulent.
The mortgage of the International & Great Northern
Railroad Company of 1881 was foreclosed in 1910, and
included all charter rights, and on foreclosure sale all the
properties were bought in and transferred to the International & Great Northern Railway Company, chartered

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

246 U. S.

in 1911. Therefore, the Office-Shops Act of 1889, here
relied on as giving security for the alleged contracts of
1872-1875, could not secure and enlarge those contracts
without violating the obligation of the mortgage contract
of 1881; which it is submitted has been violated by the
decree here under review, contrary to that provision of
the Constitution prohibiting any State from passing a
law violating the obligation of a contract.
The Office-Shops Act of 1889, as construed and herein
enforced, conflicts with the contract clause also because
the purely personal alleged contracts of 1872-1875 sued
on are extended and secured, and their obligations changed,
by that statute.
The Office-Shops Act, as construed and enforced herein,
cannot be justified as a legitimate exercise of the police
power of the State.
Under the law existing in 1879, and anterior to that
time, and at the time of the foreclosure of the mortgages
in 1879 and the selling out of the property thereunder,
not only tangibles were sold, but also there were mortgaged, foreclosed and sold all of the charters of the International & Great Northern Railroad Company, whereby
the alleged contracts herein sued on alleged to have been
created in 1872-1875 (then personal, and personal at the
time of the foreclosure of 1879), were by the foreclosures
and sales eliminated as against the new railroad, and could
not by the Act of 1889 be extended and secured against
the properties of the railroad without violation of the obligations of the foreclosed mortgage contracts, and without denial of the rights, titles, privileges and immunities
secured by the decrees of the United States court, and
after the lapse of 35 years those decrees could not, in the
state court, be declared fraudulent, even if there had been
evidence of fraud.
The Act of 1889, as herein construed, to extend and to
secure as extended the alleged contracts of 1872-1875,

INTERNAT'L & G. N. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON CO. 427
424.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

by a perpetual lien and servitude, deprives plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law, contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment; and in attempting to compel plaintiff in error (an interstate carrier) to forever maintain its machine shops, roundhouses and general offices at
Palestine, places a burden upon interstate commerce, in
violation of par. 4, § 8, Art. 1, of the Constitution.
Mr. F. D. McKenney and Mr. Thomas B. Greenwood,
with whom Mr. A. G. Greenwood, Mr. W. C. Campbell
and Mr. Jno. C. Box were on the briefs, for defendants in
error:
This suit was not within any reservations of exclusive
jurisdiction in the decree of foreclosure, because it involved merely the enforcement of a continuing statutory
duty of plaintiff in error.
The Circuit Court for the Northern District of Texas
completely discharged the railroad and franchises of the
sold-out company from its possession, custody and control, actual and constructive, prior to the institution of
this suit.
The Office-Shops Act came within the police power of
the State as a valid regulation, for the promotion of the
public interest, of franchises granted by the State for the
operation of railroads, and it must be obeyed by plaintiff
in error both as the purchaser of a railroad and its franchises, under foreclosure of a mortgage antedating the
statute, and as a corporation organized under a law which
expressly imposed upon it obedience to the statute.
The Court of Civil Appeals having determined as a
pure question of fact, not open to review here, that the
properties and franchises of the International & Great
Northern Railroad Company were sold in 1879 to mere
trustees for the debtor corporation, such sale could not
discharge the personal obligation of the locative contracts,
and in no event could such sale affect the statutory pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

hibition against changing the general offices and shops from
Palestine.
The statute is not void as a direct regulation of interstate commerce.
The record presents no substantial federal question for
decision by this court, and the concurring judgments of
the state courts are rested upon nonfederal grounds broad
enough to sustain them. The entire matter is one of
purely local concern, dependent for solution upon the
construction and application of state laws.
MR. JusTic. HoT Es delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the defendants in error to
prevent the Railroad Company, plaintiff in error, from
moving its machine shops, roundhouses, and general
offices from the City of Palestine and from maintaining
any of them elsewhere. An injunction was issued as
prayed; the judgment was affirmed by the Court of Civil
Appeals, 174 S. W. Rep. 305, in accordance with intimations of the Supreme Court of Texas at an earlier stage,
106 Texas, 60, and an application to the latter Court for
a writ of error was refused. The case is brought here
upon voluminous assignments of error which may be
summed up in the propositions that the state court was
without jurisdiction because of certain foreclosures in
the Courts of the United States, that the judgment disregarded rights secured by the decrees of those Courts,
and that it gave effect to a statute which as applied burdened interstate commerce, impaired the obligation of
contracts, etc., and was contrary to Article I, §§ 8 and 10,
and to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States.
The facts begin with the predecessors of the plaintiffs
in error. The Houston and Great Northern Railroad
Company, a local road, was chartered by a special Act

INTERNAT'L & G. N. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON CO. 429
424.

Opinion of the Court.

on October 26, 1866. About March 15, 1872, it contracted
with the citizens of Palestine in the County of Anderson
in consideration of the issue of bonds by the county to
maintain its general offices, machine shops and roundhouses at that place. The International Railroad Company was chartered in like manner on August 5, 1870.
In 1872 the two companies agreed to consolidate and this
agreement was ratified by the stockholders of each in
1873. A special Act of April 24, 1874, authorized the
consolidated company, known as the International and
Great Northern Railroad Company, to issue bonds secured by mortgage and provided that all acts theretofore
done in the name of either of the companies should be
of the same binding effect upon the new one that they
were upon the old. In 1875 the new company in consideration of the erection of houses for its employees renewed the contract of the Houston & Great Northern
and at about the same time it resolved that its general
offices should be removed to Palestine. We see no reason
for reopening the findings below that the alleged contracts
were made. The offices were removed and there they
remained, subject to some immaterial interruption, until
1911. The machine shops and roundhouses are still there.
Each of the two constituent companies had executed
mortgages before the date of the original agreement of
the Houston & Great Northern and each executed another before the contract of the consolidated company
in 1875. These mortgages were all foreclosed in 1879
and the property conveyed to a corporation, still called
the International & Great Northern Railroad Company,
by a deed that conveyed all the franchises and chartered
powers of the original roads. The foreclosure is one fact
relied upon for the defence.
The purchasing company in its turn executed mortgages, one of which, including, like the earlier ones that
we have mentioned, the franchise to be a corporation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

dated in 1881, is the source of the plaintiff in error's title,
by a foreclosure in 1910-1911. Before this last foreclosure took place two statutes were enacted in Texas
that are important. The first, known as the Office-Shops
Act, approved March 27, 1889, c. 106; Rev. Civil Stats.
1911, § 6423, provided that every railroad company chartered by the State or owning or operating a line within
the State should permanently maintain its general offices
at the place named in its charter, and if no certain place
were named there, at such place as it should have contracted to locate them, otherwise at such place as it
should designate; also that it should maintain its machine shops and roundhouses at the place where it had
contracted to keep them, and that if the offices, shops
or roundhouses were located on the line of a railroad in a
county that had aided such railroad by an issue of bonds
in consideration of the location being made, then such
location should not be changed; "and this shall apply as
well to a railroad that may have been consolidated with
another as to those which have maintained their original
organization." A violation of the act entails forfeiture
of the charter, with a penalty of $5,000 a day for every
day of violation. Rev. Stats., § 6425. An act approved
two days later, March 29, 1889, with provisos that no
rights should be acquired inconsistent with the present
constitution, that the main track once constructed and
operated should not be removed, &c., authorized purchasers of sold-out railroads to form a new corporation,
whereas previously the purchaser had continued the
franchises of the old under the original grant. -A law of
September 1, 1910, c. 4, further emphasized the change
of policy by excluding a succession to the old charter unless coupled with an acceptance of certain liabilities, and
providing that the charter should pass subject to the
provisions and limitations imposed and to be imposed
by law. Rev. Stats., § 6625.

INTERNAT'L & G. N. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON CO. 431
424.

Opinion of the Court.

The mortgage of 1881 last mentioned was foreclosed by
proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United States.
A decree of May 10, 1910, while reserving jurisdiction
of the property, ordered a sale, which, after postponements, took place on June 13, 1911, and was confirmed
the next day, On September 25, 1911, the railroad and
franchises were finally discharged from the possession
and control of the receiver and the Court. Before that
date the plaintiff in error was incorporated under the
Act of 1889 and general laws and took the conveyances
under the foreclosure decree. Within the time allowed
it had filed in Court a repudiation of any agreement on
the part of any of its predecessors to maintain their offices
and shops at Palestine, and later gave notice to that effect
to officials of Anderson County and Palestine. The articles of incorporation fixed the place for the general
offices as Houston.
The railway company denies the jurisdiction of the
state court and sets up that the court of the last foreclosure is the only proper forum. But a decree of foreclosure does not render the purchaser and property
foreclosed sacrosanct. The Circuit Court had finished
the case and had given up possession and control before
this suit was brought. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S.
168, 178, 179. Wabash R. R. Co. v. Adelbert College,
208 U. S. 38, 55. Even if it were true that the foreclosure
sale and order carried an immunity from the present demand thaf the railway was entitled to set up, in the absence of action .on the part of the Court of the United
States, it would not take away the power of the state
court to decide as to the existence of an alleged public
duty on the part of a railroad within the territory where
the court sat. Ricaud v. American Metal Co., ante, 304.
But the foreclosures did not have the supposed effect.
They no more removed all human restrictions than they
excluded the authority of ordinary courts. Suppose

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

that a special act incorporating the mortgagor had provided in terms evidently intended to reach beyond
foreclosure that the general offices were to remain forever at Palestine, it hardly would be argued, and certainly would not be argued here or in Texas with success,
that the requirement could be touched by a decree. But
if the law made that requirement, it hardly matters
whether the restriction was imposed by charter or otherwise or whether the remote reason for it was a contract
or a general notion of public policy. The state courts
hold that when the law on any ground fixes the place of
the offices and shops the obligation is indelible by foreclosure. We see no reason why their decision should not
prevail.
It is contended that the Office-Shops Act of 1889
does not touch the plaintiff in error by its terms and that
if it be construed to do so it is unconstitutional. On the
construction of the act it seems to us that there can be
no doubt. It is true that the provision requiring the
general offices to be maintained at the place where the
railroad had contracted to keep them is conditioned
on no place being named in the charter, but of course
this does not mean that articles framed under a general
law can get rid of contracts that otherwise would bind,
and in our opinion it is equally plain that no distinction
was intended between the contract by the present road
and one by its predecessor, if the office and shops "are
located on the line of a railroad in a county which has
aided said railroad by an issue of bonds in consideration
of such location being made." "Then," the statute says,
"said location shall not be changed." The construction
of the act by the state court is beyond criticism upon
this point.
It is said that the act so construed would infringe the
constitutional rights of the parties to the mortgage of
1881, which the plaintiff in error took by foreclosure.

INTERNAT'L & G. N. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON CO. 433
424.

Opinion of the Court.

But it will be remembered that the mortgagor under
the law then in force merely had succeeded to the original contractors, freed from their unsecured debts, no
doubt, but, it well might be held, not freed from the
obligation in question. Also it was found by the Courts
below that the sale under which the mortgagor took in
1879 was not a bona fide sale, and so was not a sale that
put the purchaser in a position other than that of mortgagor. Apart from these considerations we should be
slow to say that it was not within the power of a state
legislature dealing with a corporation of the State to fix
the place of its domicile and principal offices, in the absence of other facts than those appearing in this case.
But furthermore when the Office-Shops Act was on the
statute book the plaintiff in error took out a charter under
general laws that expressly subjected it to the limitations imposed by law. It is said that this does not make
the plaintiff in error adopt an otherwise unconstitutional
statute. But even if, contrary to what we have intimated,
the act could not otherwise have affected those particular corporations, it was a law upon the statute books
and was far from a mere nullity, and if it was made
a condition of incorporation that this restriction should
be accepted, the plaintiff in error cannot complain. Interstate Consolidated Street Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 79. We agree with the state courts that the condition was imposed.
The acceptance of the charter by the plaintiff in error
disposed of every constitutional objection but one. It
is said that the restriction imposes a burden upon commerce among the States, since the road concerned has
expanded and now is largely engaged in such commerce.
The jury found that it imposed no such burden, upon
an issue submitted to them in accordance with the desire of the plaintiff in error, although not in the form
that it desired. So far as the question depended upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

the testimony adduced the verdict must be accepted,
and although no doubt there might be cases in which
this Court would pronounce for itself, irrespective of
testimony, whether a burden was imposed, we are not
prepared to say that in this instance the State has transcended its powers. The burden if any is indirect. Some
complaint is made of the form of the judgment, as purporting to be perpetual. But the word perpetual adds
nothing to a requirement that the office and shops should
be maintained in Palestine. The requirement is perpetual until the law is changed. When and how it may be
changed is not before us now. Other objections are
urged and other details are adverted to in the very lengthy
printed arguments, besides those with which we have
dealt, but we deem it unnecessary to go farther. Upon
the whole case we are of opinion that the judgment below should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. STATE OF MINNESOTA EX REL. VILLAGE OF
CLARA CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 185.

Submitted March 12, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

Railroad companies may be required, under the state police power, at
their own expense, to make streets and highways crossed by their
tracks reasonably safe and convenient for public use.
Upon this principle, where a village street with business houses on
both sides was intersected by a railroad right of way of which the
central portion only was occupied by roadbed and tracks and was
sufficiently planked for crossing purposes, heZd, that a requirement

