CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
146.

147

Syllabus.

state is much the larger, although this is not material.
The tax is of a designated per cent. of the entire authorized capital, and was imposed after the maximum limit
named in St. 1909, c. 490, Part II, § 56, was removed by
St. 1914, c. 724, § 1. As thus changed the statute is in
its essence and practical operation indiktinguishable from
those adjudged invalid in Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Company v, Kansas, 216
U. S. 56; Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 216 U.
S. 146, and Looney v. Crane Company, 245 U. S. 178.
This we have just decided in InternationalPaper Co. v.
Massachusetts, ante, 135.
Judgment reversed.

CHENEY BROTHERS COMPANY ET AL. v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 12. Argued April 20, 1916; restored to docket for reargument May 21,
1917; reargued October 19, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Massachusetts Stats., 1909, c. 490, Pt. HI, § 56, imposed an annual
excise upon every foreign corporation, for the privilege of doing
local business, of 1/50 of 1% of the par value of its authorized capital stock, subject, however, to a maximum limit of $2,000.00.
Held, valid, as applied to corporations doing local as well as interstate business, upon the authority of Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68. InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts,
ante, 135, distinguished.

The following activities are held to constitute local business, affording
bases for the tax:
1. Keeping up a stock of repair parts at a place of business, and
supplying and selling them, in part locally, to users of machines
made by the corporation in another State and sold in interstate
commerce. Case of Lanston Monotype Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

2. Repairing automobiles made in another State and disposed
of in interstate commerce, and selling second-hand automobiles
taken in exchange for new ones so disposed of. Case of Locomobile Co. of America.
3. Where a corporation, to promote local trade in its product
manufactured in another State and sold in interstate commerce
to wholesalers, maintained a local office with agents who solicited
orders from local retailers and turned them over to local wholesalers, who filled them and were paid by the retailers. Case of
Northwesterh Consolidated Milling Co.
4. Where a holding company had an office in the taxing State,
pursuant to its articles, where it held stockholders' and directors'
meetings, kept corporate records and accounts, received and Ideposited in bank regular dividends, and paid the money, less
salaries and expenses, regularly as dividends to its stockholders.
Case of Copper Range Co.
5. Maintaining a local office, pursuant to corporate articles,
where proceeds of operations in another State are received, deposited locally, distributed to shareholders, less salaries and expenses, and where directors hold their regular meetings, elect officers and manage the general business of the corporation. Case
of Champion Copper Co.
The fact that a local business stimulates interstate business and that
its abandonment would have the opposite effect, does not make it
any the less local. Case of Locomobile Co. of Ameria.
Where a foreign corporation maintains and employs a local office,
with a stock of samples and a force of office and traveling salesmen, merely tq obtain orders locally and in other States, subject
to approval by its home office, for its goods to be shipped directly to the customers from its home State, the business is part
of its interstate commerce and not subject to local excise taxation. Case of Cheney Brothers Co. And the action of such office in obtaining orders from customers residing in the home State
of the corporation and in transmitting them to the home State
where they are approved and filled, is interstate intercourse,
not local business in the State where the office is established.
Id.
A State may impose a different rate of taxation upon foreign corporations for the privilege of doing local business than it imposes upon
the primary franchises of its own corporations; and, by merely permitting or licensing a foreign corporation to engage in local business
and acquire local property, it does not surrender or abridge, quoad

CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
147.

149

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

such corporation, its power'to change and revise its taxing system
and tax rates. Hence, where a foreign corporation acquired real
property and specially improved it at large cost, but still the
property was such that the investment might be retrieved if need be,
held, that a subsequent increase in its excise without corresponding
change in the tax bearing on domestic corporations would not deny
it the equal protection of the laws. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene,
216 U. S. 400, distinguished. Case of White Co.
218 Massachusetts, 558, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

THn case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. CharlesA. Snow, with whom Mr. William P. Everts
was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
A "fluctuating" percentage excise measured by the entire capital stock of a foreign corporation engaged in
transacting interstate and domestic commerce at the same
places and through the same instrumentalities, is unconstitutional under the commerce clause and void, although
it professes to be imposed exclusively for the privilege of
transacting local business. Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
56; Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v.Andrews, 216 U. S. 165;
Atchison, Topeka & SantaFe Ry. Co. v. O'Connor,223 U. S.
280; Flintv. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 163; Oklahoma
v. Wells, Fargo& Co., 223 U. S. 298; Kansas City &c. R. 1.
Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111; Pick & Co. v. Jordan, 169
California, 1, 244 U. S. 647; Crane Co. v. Looney, 218 Fed.
Rep. 260.
The principles of the Western Union Cases were not confined to quasi-public corporations, but extended broadly
to all classes of trading corporations conducting conjointly both interstate and domestic commerce at the
same places and through the same instrumentalities.
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 86;
Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 234,
235. They did not decide that only indispensable and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

246 U. S.

inseparable incidents to interstate commerce are protected; nor that such an excise is constitutional if the company may voluntarily abandon its local business without
serious damage to its interstate commerce; nor that a
direct burden on such commerce must be shown. They
require only a burden. If the necessary operation and effect is to burden interstate commerce, it is unconstitutional.
The Western Union decisions were not distinctly and
consciously placed upon the ground that the tax was a
fluctuating percentage tax, but the Kansas tax wa in
fact such.
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, did not
modify these principles, but was decided upon its special
facts; for the court found that the Baltic Company did
not, like the Western Union Company, conduct interstate
and domestic business at the same places and through the
same instrumentalities. As applied to the Baltic Company, the Massachusetts statute was sustained. Here
the facts, as applied to the present companies, are totally
different, although the statute is the same. No attempt
was made in the Baltic Case to differentiate the terms of
the .Kansas and Massachusetts statutes. Nor could any
substantial distinction have been established, because
of the fact that other companies not then before the court
were totally exempted from taxation beyond a $2,000 excise, representing 1/50 of 1% on a capitalization of ten
million dollars. The companies there under consideration were subjected to a "fluctuating" percentage tax,
increasing in exact proportion to every dollar of additional capital used in or required for extensions of interstate business. The Kansas and Massachusetts statutes
being identical in all material respects, the Baltic decision
must rest upon its special facts. The vital fact there appearing was, as stated by the court, that each of the corporatuias in question was carrying on a purely local and

CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
147.

151

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

domestic business quite separate from its interstate transactions. It clearly did not profess to hold that, while a
"fluctuating" tax is bad, if without limits, it is valid, if
within a maximum which had not been reached by any
company before the court, and which can be attained only
by the largest companies. Nor was the decision at all
based on the consideration that two thousand dollars is
a small amount or that it is a reasonable tax. [Discussing
and explaining Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240
U. S. 227.1
Although the Massachusetts excise, as applied to the
present companies, is condemned by the Western Union
decisions, the same result would follow under the earlier
cases. Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171.
The amount of an excise of this description must bear
some fair and reasonable relation to the value of the privilege of conducting local business, and be levied upon
some reasonable basis. U. S. .Epress Co. v. Minnesota,
223 U. S. 335, 348; Fargov. Hart, 193 U. S. 490; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 42; Marconi &c. Co. v. Commonwealth, 218 Massachusetts, 558,
567.
An excise which operates with inequality because of
its improper basis is unreasonable and void under the
commerce clause.
All fair and reasonable incidents to, and all instrumentalities of, interstate commerce are protected equally
with the commerce itself. They need not be indispensable, reasonably necessary, or inseparable incidents or
instrumentalities, as required by the court below. Local
offices and agents used for interstate commerce thus are
protected, whether they are indispensable or not. McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Norfolk & Western R.
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Western Union
Cases, supra; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; Caldwel v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.
389.
The Massachusetts excise denies equal protection to
the White Company, within the doctrine of Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
It denies equal protection of the laws to all the smaller
and poorer corporations having a capitalization less than
ten million dollars, because they are discriminated against
by the exemption from taxation of capital beyond that
amount. It violates the due process clause.
Mr. William Harold Hitchcock, Assistant Attorney
General of the State of Massachusetts, with whom Mr.
Henry C. Attwill, Attorney General of the State of Massachusetts, was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JvsmIcE VAN DuvAN~zR

delivered the opinion of

the court.
We here are concerned with an excise tax imposed by
Massachusetts in 1913 on each of seven foreign corporations on the ground that each was doing a local business
in the State. Objections to the tax based on the commerce clause of the Constitution and the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
were overruled by the state court. 218 Massachusetts,
558. The tax was imposed under St. 1909, c. 490, Part
III, § 56, before the maximum limit was removed by St.
1914, c. 724, § 1, and in that respect the case is like Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, and unlike
International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, ante, 135.
Whether in other respects it is like Baltic Mining Co. v.
Massachusetts is the matter to be determined, and this
requires that the business done by each of the seven corporations be considered.

CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
147.

153

Opinion of the Court.
CHNzy BROTHERS CompAwy

This is a Connecticut corporation whose general business is manufacturing and selling silk fabrics. It maintains in Boston a selling office with one office salesman
and four other salesmen who travel through New England.
The salesmen solicit and take orders, subject to approval
by the home office in Connecticut, and it ships directly
to the purchasers. No stock of goods is kept in the Boston office, but only samples used in soliciting and taking
orders. Copies and records of orders are retained, but
no bookkeeping is done, and the office makes no collections. The salesmen and the office rent are paid directly
from Connecticut and the other expenses of the office are
paid from a small deposit kept in Boston for the purpose.
No other business is done in the State.
We do not perceive anything in this that can be regarded as a local business as distinguished from interstate
commerce. The maintenance of the Boston office and the
display therein of a supply of samples are in furtherance
of the company's interstate business and have no other
purpose. Like the employment of the salesmen, they
are among the means by which that business is carried
on and share its immunity from state taxation. .McCall
v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Norfolk & Western R. R. Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Crenshaw v. Arkansas,
227 U. S. 389; Rogers v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 401. Nor is
the situation changed by inferring, as the state court did,
that orders from customers in Connecticut sometimes
are taken by salesmen connected with the Boston office
and, after transmission to and approval by the home office, are filled by shipments from the company's mill in
Connecticut to such customers. In such cases it doubtless is true that the resulting sale is local to Connecticut,
but the action of the Boston office in receiving the order
and transmitting it to the home office partakes more of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the nature of interstate intercourse than of business local
to Massachusetts and affords no basis for an excise tax
in that State. InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U.
S. 91, 106-107. We think the tax on this company was
-essentially a tax on doing an interstate business and
therefore repugnant to the commerce clause.
LANsTON MONOTYPE COMPANY

This is a Virginia corporation which makes typesetting
machines in Philadelphia and sells them in interstate
commerce. It has a place of business in Massachusetts
where it keeps on hand a stock of the several parts of its
machines likely to be required for purposes of repair.
The stock is replenished weekly and the parts are sold
extensively to those who use the machines in that and adjacent States.

It is apparent, as we think, that a considerable portion
of the business of selling and supplying the repair parts
is purely local and subject to local taxation.
LocoMOBILE COMPANY OF AMER cA

This West Virginia corporation conducts an automobile
factory in Connecticut and sells its automobiles in interstate commerce. It does an extensive local business in
Massachusetts in repairing cars of its own make after they
are sold and in use, and also in selling second-hand cars
taken in partial exchange for new ones. This local business has some influence on the volume of interstate business done by the company in the State, and its abandonment would tend to reduce the purchases there of the
company's automobiles. But this does not make it any
the less a local business. It must be judged by what it
is rather than by its influence on another business. See
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis,
238 U. S. 439, 444-445.

CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
147.

155

Opinion of the Court.

NORTHWESTERN CONSOLIDATED MIL I

G COMPANY

This company was incorporated under the laws of
Minnesota, operates flour mills there, and sells the flour
to wholesale dealers throughout the country. It has an
office in Massachusetts where it employs several salesmen
for the purpose of inducing local tradesmen to carry and
deal in its flour. These salesmen solicit and take orders
from retail dealers and turn the same over to the nearest
wholesale dealer, who fills the order and is paid by the retailer. Thus the salesman, although not in the employ of
the wholesaler, is selling flour for him. Of course this is a
domestic business,-inducing one local merchant to buy a
particular class of goods from another,-and may be
taxed by the State, regardless of the motive with which
it is conducted.
COPPER RANGE COMPANY

This is a Michigan corporation whose articles of association contemplate that it shall have an office in Boston.
It is a holding company and owns various corporate
stocks and bonds and certain mineral lands in Michigan.
Its activities in Massachusetts consist in holding stockholders' and directors' meetings, keeping corporate records
and financial books of account, receiving monthly dividends from its holdings of stock, depositing the money in
Boston banks and paying the same out, less salaries and
expenses, as dividends to its stockholders three or four
times a year. The exaction of a tax for the exercise of
such corporate faculties is within the power of the State.
Interstate commerce is not affected.
CHAMPION COPPER COMPANY

This is another Michigan corporation which maintains
an office in Boston pursuant to a provision in its articles
of association. It deposits the proceeds of its mining and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

smelting business in Michigan in Boston banks and, after
paying salaries and expenses, distributes the balance in
dividends from its Boston office. The management of
its mine is under the control of a genefal manager in Michigan and he in turn is under the control of the company's
directors. The meetings of the latter, which occur several times in a year, are held in the Boston office. At
these meetings the directors receive reports from the
treasurer and general manager, vote dividends, elect officers, and authorize the execution of deeds and the like
for lands in Michigan. These corporate activities in
Massachusetts are not interstate commerce and may be
made the basis of an excise tax by that State.
WHITE CoMANY

This is an Ohio corporation which is conducting a business, conceded to be local, in Massachusetts. On being
admitted to do business therein it acquired two pieces
of land in Boston and at large cost specially improved
and adapted them for use, the one as an automobile service station and the other as a garage. A subsequent
change in the statute made the excise tax more onerous
than before, without, as it is said, any corresponding
change being made in the law relating to domestic corporations. In these-circumstances the company insists that
by the imposition of the tax, as defined in the statute of
1909, it is denied the equal protection of the laws, and it
relies on Soutkern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400. In
overruling this objection the state court said, 218 Massachusetts, 579:
"The real estate acquired by this petitioner is of a kind
adapted to a very considerable and increasing business,
in which there is general competition. The storage and
care of automobiles and the performance of necessary
service for their repair, maintenance and operation is a
widespread business in which large amounts of capital

CHENEY BROTHERS CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
147.

157

Opinion of the Court.

are invested and considerable numbers of persons are engaged. Such establishments are frequent subjects for
lease and sale. There is nothing to indicate or to warrant
the inference that the petitioner's investment in real estate is not readily salable at reasonable prices. It is not
property of a nature irretrievably devoted to a limited
and monopolistic use, and not readily available either for
other valuable uses or to other persons ready to devote
it to the same uses at prices fairly equivalent, subject to
the general vicissitudes of business conditions, to the original investment. The Greene Case related to railroad
property, which is not susceptible of use for any other
purpose without great loss. In that opinion it was said,
'It must always be borne in mind that property put into
railroad transportation is put there permanently. It cannot be withdrawn at the pleasure of the investors. . .
The railroad must stay, and, as a permanent investment,
its value to its owners may not be destroyed."'
Assenting, as we do, to what was thus said, it suffices
to add, first, that a State does not surrender or abridge
its power to change and revise its taxing system and tax
rates by merely licensing or permitting a foreign corporation to engage in local business and acquire property
within its limits, and, second, that" a State may impose
a different rate of taxation upon a foreign corporation for
the privilege of doing business within the State than it
applies to its own corporations upon the franchise which
the State grants in creating them." Kansas City, Memphis & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111,
118.
Bearing in mind that the tax of which these corporations are now complaining was imposed under the statute as it stood in 1913, which was before the maximum
limit was removed, it follows from our decision in Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts that the several objections
based on the Constitution of the United States are all

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

untenable, save in the instance of the Cheney Brothers
Company. The tax on that company, as before indicated,
was a tax on interstate business and therefore void under
the commerce clause.
Judgment reversed as to Cheney Brothers Company and
affirmed as to the other plaintiffs in error.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
IN EQUITY.

No. 4, Original. Argued October 9, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.
When two States of the Union are separated by a navigable stream,
their boundary being described as "a line drawn along the middle
of the river," or as "the middle of the main channel of the river,"
the boundary must be fixed (by the rule of the "thalweg") at the
middle of the main navigable channel, so that each State may enjoy
an equal right of navigation. Iowa v. Iluinois, 147 U. S.1.
Following this principle, the court holds that the true boundary line
between the States of Arkansas and Tennessee is the middle of the
main channel of navigation of the Mississippi, as it existed at the
Treaty of Peace concluded between the United States and Great
Britain in 1783, subject to such changes as have occurred since that
time through natural and gradual processes.
Certain decisions of the Arkansas and Tennessee courts and acts of the
Tennessee legislature, referred to in the opinion, fall short of showing
that the States, by practical location and long acquiescence, established the boundary, at the place in dispute, as a line equidistant
from the well-defined permanent banks of the river. It is therefore
unnecessary to decide whether the supposed agreement between
them would be valid without consent of Congress, in view of the
third clause of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution.
Where running streams are the boundaries between States, the same
rule applies as between private proprietors, namely, that when the
bed and channel are changed by the natural and gradual processes

