OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

SEARS, TRUSTEE, v. CITY OF AKRON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 105.

Argued January 21, 22, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Mere incorporation and organization under the general laws of Ohio
(Gen. Code, 1910, §§ 10128-10134,) with power to construct and
operate a hydro-electric power system at places designated in the
certificate and to take water rights and riparian property for that
purpose, does not imply a contract between the State and the company that the supply of water available shall not be diminished.
Hence, a subsequent appropriation of the water by a city, acting
under state authority, which involves no taking of property acquired
by the company by purchase or condemnation under its charter,
does not operate to impair the obligation of the charter.
Even if such a contract could be implied, an act of the legislature expressly authorizing such appropriatiah by the city should be treated
as an exercise of the State's power to amend the company's charter,
reserved by Art. XIII, § 2, of the Ohio constitution, and as revoking
or modifying the contract by subordinating the company's right to
the right of the city.
A hydro-electric company, organized under the general laws of Ohio
with power of condemnation, adopted, through its board of directors,
a plan of development involving the acquisition of the waters of a
stream, with riparian land, and began certain condemnation pro.
ceedings, but never commenced construction work, and acquired
none of the land until after the legislature had authorized a city to
appropriate the water and the city, under an ordinance, had made
the appropriation and practically constructed its works for using it.
Held, that whatever preference the company may have gained under
the general laws of the State, as against rival corporations and
municipalities, its right of appropriation, no property having been
acquired under it, was subject to the State's reserved power exerted by the act of the legislature, and that the appropriation for
the city was not an unconstitutional taking of the company's
property.
A state statute held not to violate Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution, or
the Fourteenth Amendment, in authorizing a city to determine

SEARS v. CITY OF AKRON.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

without hearing the necessity and extent of an appropriation of
private property for its public purposes.
An ordinance for the creation of a waterworks system and supply,
adopted by the city council of Akron, to take effect September 10,
1912, pursuant to Ohio Gen. Code, 1910, §§ 3677-3697, was not repealed by the constitution adopted September 3, 1912, providing
for a referendum in such cases, Art. XVIII, § 5, since the constitution
did not become effective until November 15, 1912, when the ordinance was a valid, existing law, and the fact that no action may
have been taken under the ordinance is immaterial.
Where there is no direct taking under the power of eminent domain,
a riparian owner complaining of the act of a city in damming and
diverting a stream for a municipal water supply will be remitted to
his action at law for damages, unless the injury is clear and exceptional circumstances arepresent warranting resort to equity.
General allegations of fraud and insolvency held not to supply the
absence of facts entitling plaintiff to equitable relief.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. Carroll G.
Walter, Mr. William Z. Davis and Mr. Thomas F. Tracy
were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. John E. Morley, with whom Mr. Scott Kenfield,

Mr. Thos. H. Hogsett and Mr. Sheldon H. Tolles were on
the brief, for appellee.
Mr. William Z. Davis, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curioe on behalf of the Cuyahoga River Power Co.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the
court.
Akron, Ohio, lies on Little Cuyahoga River a short
distance above its confluence with the Big Cuyahoga.
In May, 1911, the legislature of Ohio granted to the city,
by special act "the right to divert and use forever" for

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

the purposes of its water supply "the Tuscarawas river,
the big Cuyahoga and little Cuyahoga rivers, and the
tributaries thereto, now wholly or partly owned or controlled by the state." I The city already possessed, under
the general laws of Ohio, power to appropriate for this
purpose, by condemnation proceedings, the property of
any private corporation. 2 Acting specifically in exercise
of the power conferred by the special act and of every
other power thereunto enabling, the city, by resolution
of its council, passed May 27, 1912,'declared its intention
to appropriate all the waters, above a point fixed, of the
Cuyahoga River and tributaries; and by an ordinance,
passed August 26, 1912, it appropriated the same, directed its solicitor to apply to the courts to assess the compensation to be paid, and provided for the payment of
"the costs and expenses of said appropriation" out of an
issue of bonds theretofore authorized. The city then con,Act (House Bill No. 357) of May 17, 1911, Ohio Laws, vol. 102,
p. 175:
An act to provide for granting to the city of Akron, Ohio, the right
to use and occupy certain waters and lands of the state for waterworks
and park purposes.
Section. 1. That there is hereby granted to the city of Akron, in
the County of Summit, and state of Ohio, the right to divert and use
forever for the purpose of supplying water to said city of Akron and
the inhabitants thereof, the Tuscarawas river, the big Cuyahoga and
little Cuyahoga rivers, and the tributaries thereto, now wholly or
partly owned or controlled by the state and used for the purpose of
supplying water to the northern division of the Ohio canal, provided,
however, and this grant is upon the condition that at no time shall
said city use the waters of any such stream, to such extent or in such
manner as to diminish or lessen the supply now necessary, to maintain the flow in and through the canal as said canal now exists or as
hereafter may become necessary for navigation purposes for an enlarged canal and upon the further condition that the city of Akron
shall at all times save the state harmless from all claims arising from
such grant and construction thereunder.
2General Code of Ohio (1910), §§ 3677-3697.

SEARS v. CITY OF AKRON.

245

Opinion of the Court.

242.

structed a dam and reservoir at the place specified and
announced its intention of diverting the water before or
by August 1, 1915.
On July 24, 1915, John H. Sears,.a citizen of New York,
filed in the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Ohio this suit, praying that the further construction of dam and reservoir and the diversion of the water
of the river be enjoined, and alleged, in substance, the
following facts: The Cuyahoga River Power Company,
a hydro-electric corporation, was organized under the
general laws of Ohio, I in 1908. The character of the company's enterprise is described in Cuyahoga River Power
Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U. S. 300; and its possible
rights were considered in Cuyahoga River Power Co. v.
Akron, 240 U. S. 462. On July 15, 1915, the company de1 Now

General Code of Ohio (1910), f§ 10128-10134.

The bill recites:
"Said corporation was formed for the purpose of acquning, erecting, building, maintaining and operating dams in the Cuyahoga River
in the State of Ohio to raise and maintain a head of water; of constructing and maintaining canals, locks and raceways to regulate and
carry said head of water to any plant or power house where electricity
is to be generated; of erecting and maintaining a line or lines of poles
whereon to attach or string wires or cables to carry and transmit electricity; of acquiring, producing, manufacturing, generating and selling
electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes; of acquiring, holding and selling franchises and privileges to supply the same to municipal corporations; of acquiring by condemnation, lease, purchase or
otherwise, and of possessing, holding and selling such real estate and
personal property as may be necessary or convenient for the proper
conduct of said business, and of doing any and all things necessary
and incident to any of said purposes.
"The original articles of incorporation of said company provided
that the improvements of said company should begin at the confluence of the Big Cuyahoga River and the Little Cdyahoga River below
the City of Akron, Summit County, Ohio, and extend along said Big
Cuyahoga River through the County of Summit to a point where said
Big Cuyahoga River crosses the line between Summit and Portage

Counties."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

livered to him as trustee a deed of trust of all its property
to secure an issue of $150,000 of bonds. The property
rights or interests which it is alleged the city was about
to appropriate and for which it had not paid and proposed not to pay, arose from these transactions of the
company:
It caused to be made and had, on or about June 3, 1908,
adopted by resolution of its board of directors, surveys,
maps and plans known as the "Roberts-Abbot Plan."
Later it caused to be made and, about April 23, 1909,
adopted by resolution of its board of directors, supplemental surveys, maps and a plan, known as the "Von
Schon Plan," together with description of the several
parcels of land required for carrying it out. The first plan
provided for development, on the Big Cuyahoga, above
the confluence of the Big and Little Cuyahoga rivers,
within the limits of the location and plan of development
set forth in its certificate of incorporation; and the papers
also described the various parcels of land which the company would .require for the purpose. The supplemental
plan called for an extensive development including most
of the rivers of northeastern Ohio, and provided, among
other things, for a dam on the Big Cuyahoga above that
of the city. It was confessedly beyond the powers conferred by the original certificate of incorporation. That
certificate was not amended to include the necessary additional powers until after the passage of the Act of 1911.
No public record or filing was made of either of those
plans; and the law of Ohio makes no provision for such
filing or for any record except that involved in condemnation proceedings. No condemnation proceeding was
taken except that instituted June 5, 1908, under the original plan. It does not appear that any property was acquired under these proceedings. Shortly before the commencement of this suit, the company acquired, at a point
some distance below the city's dam, a small parcel of

SEARS v. CITY OF AKRON.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

-land, which, however, extended only to high-water mark.
It also acquired, at another place below defendant's dam
from another riparian owner, a contract for a portion of
the river bed and the right to regulate, as to this land,
the flow of the river; and acquired options for certain
other properties. But the company has not commenced
anywhere on the river any part of the proposed waterpower development.
The right of property which the bill seeks to protect is
mainly, if not wholly, the alleged right to construct and
operate, in places designated in the certificate of incorporation, the power system described, without danger of
impairment by any act of defendants. The bill alleges
that the company "became possessed of and vested with
the right to exercise the State's power of eminent domain
in order to appropriate and acquire for its own corporate
purposes such private property as it deemed necessary
for carrying out and performing the matters and things
set forth in its said articles of incorporation;" and that
the city's proposed action would impair contract rights
of the company and also take its property without compensation in violation of the Federal Constitution. The
city moved to dismiss the bill, contending that it did not
appear from plaintiff's allegations that any contract
rights of the company had been impaired or that the city
had taken or used, or threatened or proposed to take or
use, any property of the company; that, on the contrary,
the bill showed that the company had no property right
which the city's action, taken or proposed, would involve
appropriating; and that, for this reason, it had refrained
from including in the condemnation proceedings instituted
by it any alleged property rights of the company, and had
not given to it any notice of the city's takings.
The motion to dismiss the bill was sustained by the
District Court, on the ground that the company did not
possess any such contract right or property as the city

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

was alleged to have impaired or invaded or threatened to
appropriate; and also on the ground that the bill did not
set forth facts entitling plaintiff to seek relief in equity
and did disclose laches. A decree was entered dismissing
the bill; and a direct appeal to this court was taken under
§ 238 of the Judicial Code.
First: As to the alleged impairment of contract: Plaintiff contends that' the incorporation of the company in
1908 under the general laws constituted a contract by
which the State granted it the right to construct and operate a power system in the places designated in the certificate and the right to take property for that purpose
and to have the water flow past that property uninterrupted and undiminished; and that the ordinance of 1912
is a law which impairs that contract in violation of Article I, § 10, of the Federal Constitution. It is clear that
the contract right created by incorporation alone was
not illegally impaired by the ordinance, because there
was no contract by the State with reference to the water
rights. Incorporation did not imply an agreement that
the quantity of water available for development by the
company would not be diminished. St. Anthony Falls
Water Power Co. v. St. PauZWater Commissioners, 168
U. S. 349, 371. The so-called charter simply conferred
upon the company the power to take lands necessary for,
and to construct thereon, the dams, locks, and other parts
of its plant.' If by purchase or by right of eminent do'General Code of Ohio (1910):
"Section 10128. Any company or companies organized for the purpose of erecting or building dams across rivers or streams in this state
to raise and maintain a head of water, or for constructing and maintaining canals, locks, and race-ways to regulate and carry such head
of water to any plant or power house where electricity is to be generated, or for erecting and maintaining a line or lines of poles whereon
to attach or string wires or cables to carry and transmit electricity,
or for transporting natural gas, petroleum, water or electricity, through

SEAIUS v. CITY OF AKRON.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

main under the charter powers the company becomeg
the owner of riparian lands, it acquires the riparian rights
of former owners; or it may otherwise acquire from the
owners specific rights in the use and flow of the water.
But these would be property acquired under the charter,
not contract rights expressed or implied in the grant of
the charter. Furthermore, the contract inhering in the
charter (as distinguished from property acquired under
the charter) was subject to the State's reserved power to

amend or repeal, as provided in Art. XIII, §2, of the
Ohio constitution. Ramapo Water Co. v. City of New
York, 236 U. S. 579, 583. The Act of 1911, under which
the city proceeded, may be treated as an amendment of
the company's charter making its rights subject to those
of the city, if that is necessk7T to justify the proceeding
of the city, which the act authorized. See State v. City of

Hamilton, 47 Ohio St. 52, 74; Hamilton Gas Light Co. v.
Hamilton City, 146 U. S.258; Berea College v. Kentucky,
211 U. S.45, 57.
Second: As to the alleged property rights: It follows
from what has been said above, that at least until something more had occurred than incorporation, the city was
free as against the Cuyahoga Company to appropriate
tubing, pipes or conduits, or by means of wires, cables or conduits, or
for storing, transporting or transmitting water, natural gas or petroleum, or for generating and transmitting electricity, may enter upon
any private land for the purpose of examining or surveying a line or
lines for its tubing, pipes, conduits, poles and wires, or for a reservoir,

dams, canals, race-ways, plant or power house, and for ascertaining
the number of acres overflowed by reason of the construction of such
dam or dams, and may appropriate so much thereof as is deemed necessary for the laying down or building of such tubing, conduits, pipes,

dams, poles, wires, reservoir, plant and power house, as well as the

land overflowed, and for the erection of tanks and reservoirs for the
storage of water for transportation and the erection of stations along
such line or lines, and the erection of such building as may be neces-

sary for the purpose aforesaid."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. 8.

any of the land or any of the water rIghts which might
otherwise have come under the development described in
its certificate of incorporation. Plaintiff contends, however, that it became vested with an indefeasible property
right to proceed with its development (a) when by resolution the board of directors adopted the plan or (b) when
condemnation proceedings were begun. Whether the
adoption of a plan by the company would, under the general laws of Ohio, have vested in it such a preferential
right as against rival power companies or other municipalities, we have no occasion to consider. For it is clear
that Ohio retained the power as against one of its creatures, to revoke any such right to appropriate property
until it had been acted upon by acqu'iring the property
authorized to be taken, Adirondack Ry. Co. v. New York
State, 176 U. S. 335; and the Act of 1911 and the ordinance
were both passed before the company had acquired any
property. Nor are we called upon to determine to what
extent the commencement of the acquisition of needed
property in preparation for the power development, or
even actual commencement of construction, would have
vested in the company the right to complete the development. For the property alleged to -be now owned by
the company was not acquired by it until after the city's
development had been practically completed; and no work
of construction has ever been commenced by the company.
Third: As to the alleged riparian rights: These consist
of (a) the small parcel of land extending to high-water
mark, which was acquired nearly three years after the
ordinance of August 26, 1912, was passed; and (b) a contract with one Boettler for a portion of the river bed with
a right to regulate flowage; and (c) certain options for
other lands and rights, all of which also seem to have been
acquired after the city's water development was practically completed. The city insists that the bill fails to
show that it has taken or proposes to take or will injure

SEARS v. CITY OF AKRON.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

any of these, and also that it does not appear that the
company has, in respect to any of these properties, any
r'parian right which conceivably could be taken or injured. This contention, which involves matters of state
law, may possibly raise some questions presented to the
state courts in Boettler v. Akron, 93 Ohio St. 490. But
whether it is in all respects sound, we need not determine;
for it is clear that, upon the facts alleged in the bill, the
rights of the plaintiff in this property and the injury thereto,
if any, are not such as to entitle him to relief in equity.
Fourth: Plaintiff contends that the ordinance is void
because the general statute which authorized the appropriation violates both Article I, § 10, of the Federal Constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it authorizes the municipality to determine the necessity for
the taking of private property without the owners having an opportunity to be heard as to such necessity; that
in fact no necessity existed for any taking which would
interfere with the company's project, since the city might
have taken water from the Little Cuyahoga or the Tuscarawas rivers; and furthermore that it has taken ten
times as much water as it can legitimately use. It is well
settled that while the question whether the purpose of a
taking is a public one is judicial, Hairstn v. Danville &
Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598; the necessity and the proper
extent of a taking is a legislative question. -Shoemaker v.
United States, 147 U. S. 282, 298; United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 668, 685; United States
v. Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co., 229 U. S. 53, 65.
The legislature may refer such issues, if controverted, to
the court for decision. P. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. City
of Greenville, 69 Ohio St. 487.
Fifth: As a further ground for relief, plaintiff asserts
that the whole water development of the city has been
carried on without authority in law. The contention is,
that the general statute on which the ordinance rests is

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

inconsistent with the new constitution, adopted September 3, 1912; that though the ordinance was passed before
the new constitution took effect, it was not acted upon
until after; and that therefore it was not within the saving clause and was repealed. Inconsistency is asserted
for the reason that under the statute the city council possessed the full power to determine whether the city should
undertake the water development, whereas the new constitution provided a right to a referendum on the subject,
upon filing, within thirty days from the passage of the
ordinance, a petition "signed by ten percentum of the
electors of the municipality." Article XVIII, § 5. The
bill alleges. that the ordinance did not take effect until
September 10, 1912; but the new constitution did not become effective until November 15, 1912. The ordinance
was, therefore, a valid existing law when the new constitution became operative and was not repealed by it.
The fact that no action may have been taken under the
ordinance is immaterial. We need not, therefore, enquire whether plaintiff is in a position to avail himself of
the alleged inconsistency.
Sixth: The city insists that it has not appropriated
and does not intend to appropriate any property of plaintiff, and that, as to plaintiff, it is not exercising the power
of eminent domain. If, as plaintiff contends, the city's
whole water development is unauthorized, plaint:ff clearly
is not entitled to equitable relief. For then, the city's
act in damming and diverting water would be that of an
ordinary wrongdoer, for which riparian proprietors above
or below, who are injured, would have only the usual remedy for a tort by an action at law for damages, unless exceptional circumstances render resort to a court of equity
appropriate. Parker v. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton &
Wolon Co., 2 Black, 545; Osborne v. Missouri Pacific Ry.
Co., 147 U. S. 248, 259. No such circumstances exist
here. The bill shows clearly that, at least for the present,

NELSON v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
242.

253

Syllabus.

the company cannot, by any conceivable diversion, be
injured in any riparian properties and rights it may have;
for it has not even commenced the construction of its projected power system, nor otherwise utilized the small
parcel which it acquired shortly before this suit was instituted. Even if the company had riparian rights and
should hereafter proceed with its development it -might
prove that defendant's diversion was of such a character
that it would not substantially affect the company's use,
McElroy v. Goble, 6 Ohio St. 187; or the circumstances
might conceivably be such that the city would be held
not to have exceeded its legal rights as riparian owner.
City of Canton v. Shock, 66 Ohio St. 19; Moody & Thomas
Milling Co. v. City of Akron, 93 Ohio St. 484; ClevelandAkron Bag Co. v. City of Akron, 93 Ohio St. 486.
The absence of facts entitling plaintiff to equitable relief is not supplied by such general allegations of fraud
and insolvency as the plaintiff has made.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NELSON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 129. Argued January 8, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
A civil engineer, employed by a railroad company, while surveying
within one of its yards, was injured by a fall resulting from a defective tie and a space between ties unfilled by ballast. In an action

