NELSON v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
242.

253

Syllabus.

the company cannot, by any conceivable diversion, be
injured in any riparian properties and rights it may have;
for it has not even commenced the construction of its projected power system, nor otherwise utilized the small
parcel which it acquired shortly before this suit was instituted. Even if the company had riparian rights and
should hereafter proceed with its development it -might
prove that defendant's diversion was of such a character
that it would not substantially affect the company's use,
McElroy v. Goble, 6 Ohio St. 187; or the circumstances
might conceivably be such that the city would be held
not to have exceeded its legal rights as riparian owner.
City of Canton v. Shock, 66 Ohio St. 19; Moody & Thomas
Milling Co. v. City of Akron, 93 Ohio St. 484; ClevelandAkron Bag Co. v. City of Akron, 93 Ohio St. 486.
The absence of facts entitling plaintiff to equitable relief is not supplied by such general allegations of fraud
and insolvency as the plaintiff has made.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NELSON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 129. Argued January 8, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
A civil engineer, employed by a railroad company, while surveying
within one of its yards, was injured by a fall resulting from a defective tie and a space between ties unfilled by ballast. In an action

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. 9.

under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, hed, upon the evidence,
that the company did not fail in any duty which it owed to him.
170 N. Car. 170, affrmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. L. Brooks, with whom Mr. 0. L. Sapp, Mr. S.
Clay Williams, Mr. R. C. Kelly and Mr. C. L. Shuping
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Garland S. Ferguson, Jr., with whom Mr. H. O'B.
Cooper, Mr. L. E. Jeffries, Mr. Clement Manly and Mr.
John N. Wilson were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIce. BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the

court.
Nelson, a civil engineer who had been in the employ of
the Southern Railway eleven years, was directed to make
a survey in one of its yards. While doing so he walked on
the main track between the rails where he had seen others
walk. As he stepped upon a cross-tie, a small V-shaped
piece of it one and a half inches by six, being rotten, slivered off under his weight. His foot slipped down between
the ties where the ballast was five or six inches below the
top of the tie; and stumbling, he fell and dislocated his
knee. The defect in the tie could have been discovered
by sounding with an iron rod and the standard of maintenance of roadbed prescribed by the Railway was to
ballast to the top of the ties. But neither the condition
of the tie, nor the failure to ballast to the top of the tie,
was a defect of a character to impair safety in operation.
Plaintiff knew that there were always some ties on the
line which were partly decayed, and also that the ballast
was occasionally below the top of the ties.
Upon these facts Nelson sought in a state court of
North Carolina to recover damages from the Railway

BILBY v. STEWART.
Opinion of the Court.

253.

under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The trial
court refused defendant's motion for a non-suit; and the
jury rendered a verdict for plaintiff. Judgment thereon
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State (170 N.
Car. 170) on the ground that there was no evidence of
negligence; and the case came here on writ of error.
It is clear that the defendant did not fail in any duty
which it owed to the plaintiff.
Judgment affirmed.

BILBY ET AL. v. STEWART ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 160.

Submitted January 25, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

The court may not review a judgment, of a state supreme court resting
on a non-federal ground adequate to support it.
Where the probate of the will of a full-blood Creek Indian was refused
solely on the non-federal ground of mental incapacity, questions
sought to be raised under acts of Congress, concerning the execution
of the will, its legal effect, and the necessity for probate, held immaterial.
An attempt to raise federal questions through an application to file a
second petition for rehearing in the state court comes too late.
Writ of error to review 153 Pac. Rep. 1173, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lewis C. Lawson for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George C. Cramp, Mr. Jasper L. Skinner-and Mr.
J. Ross Bailey for defendants in error.
MR. JusTiCE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, which affirmed on appeal the judgment of the Dis-

