OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U S.

power) impair the freedom of contract of a citizen of
the United States, "it can prevent the foreign insurers
from sheltering themselves under his freedom." Nutting
v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 553, 558; Phwnix Insurance
Co. v. McMaster, 237 U. S. 63. The insurance company
cannot be heard to object that the Missouri statute is
invalid, because it deprived Dodge of rights guaranteed
to natural persons, citizens of the United States. Brie
R. R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 705; Jeffrey Mfg.
Co.'v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576.
In my opinion the decision of the Springfield Court
of Appeals should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and M-R. Jus-

TIe CLAKE concur in this dissent.

SMITH, AUDITOR OF THE PANAMA CANAL, v.
JACKSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 457. Argued March 6, 7, 1918.--Decided April 15, 1918.

The Auditor for the Canal Zone has no authority to make deductions
for rent of quarters, and because of absence, from the salary of the
District Judge of the Zone, as fixed and appropriated for by Congress.
Intimated that, but for the character of the proceeding (mandamus)
and doubt as to intent, damages would have been inflicted on the
Auditor under Rule 23, for plain abuse of administrative discretion
in prosecuting this writ of error after being advised by an opinion
of the Attorney General and two decisions of the courts below of
his manifest duty under the statute respecting the payment of the
judge's salary.
241 Fed. Rep. 747, affirmed.

SMITH v. JACKSON.
888.

Opinion of the Court.

Tnn case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin F. Harrahfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey for defendant in error.
MR. CHEF JusTICF Wn= delivered the opinion of the

court.
Congress provided for a district court of the Canal
Zone, the appointment of a judge and the salary attached
to the office. (Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, 37 Stat.
565, ยง 8.) In due course the salary fixed was definitely
appropriated for. It is apparent that some controversy
arose as to whether the Auditor of the Canal Zone had
the power to refuse to give effect to the act of Congress
fixing and appropriating the salary by withholding such
sum as he might think was due from the judge as rent
for quarters in property belonging to the United States
in the Canal Zone. We say this is to be inferred, because
in 1915 the Secretary of War submitted to the Attorney
General two questions: first, whether the district judge
was entitled to the same privilege as to quarters in the
Canal Zone there enjoyed by other employ6s of the Government; and second, if not, whether the Auditor had
authority to deduct from the salary of the judge before
paying it the sum which he considered due for rent of
such quarters. Reversing the order in which the questions were asked, the Attorney General came first to
reply to the second question and said: ". . . without
specific authority no portion of the salary of an officer
of the United States may be withheld. See 20 Ops.
626 (1893); Benedict v. United States, 176 U. S. 357
(1900). . .
While it is apparent that this ruling should have put
the subject at rest, obviously the misconception of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Auditor as to the nature of his powers prevented that
result from being accomplished and the Auditor refused
to caiy out the act of Congress and deducted from the
salary of the judge, fixed by Congress, not only a charge
for rent of quarters, but a sum which he considered due
because of the absence of the judge from the Canal Zone
during a certain period. The judge thereupon commenced
the proceeding which is before us to compel the Auditor
to perform his plain duty under the law and pay the salary without the deductions. As the result of the action of
the Auditor and the necessity for bringing the suit, the
expense was occasioned the United States of calling a
judge from the United States to hear the cause and Judge
Clayton of the Middle and Northern Districts of Alabama proceeded to the Canal Zone to discharge that
duty. He did so, stating the reasons which controlled
him in an elaborate and careful opinion making perfectly
manifest the error of the action of the Auditor and his
wrong in refusing to observe the ruling of the Attorney
General in the premises. (241 Fed. Rep. 747.) From
the consequent judgment directing the payment of salary
to be made without the deductions the Auditor prosecuted error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit, in which court the judgment below was affirmed,
and it is a further writ of error prosecuted by the Auditor
from this court to that ruling which brings the subjectmatter before us now.
The expense of printing a voluminous record has been
occasioned aiid the views of the Auditor have been pressed
before us in a printed argument of more than one hundred
pages. We think, however, that we need not follow or
discuss that argument, as we are of opinion that it is obvious on the face of the statement of the case that the
Auditor had no power to refuse to carry out the law and
that any doubt which he might have had should have
been subordinated, first, to the ruling of the Attorney

SPRING VALLEY WATER CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
88.

391

Syllabus.

General and, second, beyond all possible question to the
judgments of the courts below. It follows, therefore,
that the prosecution of the writ of error from this court
constituted a plain abuse by the Auditor of his administrative discretion. In an ordinary case the situation
would be one not only justifying but making it our duty
to direct the enforcement of Rule 23 as to damages. As,
however, the judgment is not one for money but relates
solely to the obligation to perform a manifest public duty,
and plain as may have been the abuse of discretion committed, we are fain to believe it involved no intentional disregard of official duty, we pass that subject by and our
order will be
Judgment affirmed.

SPRING VALLEY WATER COMPANY v. CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Argued March 19, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

Money placed in a bank as special deposits, pursuant to orders of the
District Court and stipulation of parties, to await the outcome of
litigation, held subject to assessment for taxation as money in litigation in possession of a "receiver," under Political Code of California,

ยง 3647.
Such special deposits are sufficiently described for purposes of assessment by the numbers of the several cases in which they were made
and by designating the court and the parties; and the facts that the
deposit in each case was not assessed separately, and that the description included also a case in which there was no deposit, do not vitiate the assessment.

225 Fed. Rep. 728, affnrmed.

