SUTTON v. ENGLISH.
Counsel for Parties.

SUTTON ET AL. v. ENGLISH ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 330.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.

In a suit in the District Court to set aside testamentary dispositions
and adjudge the property to the plaintiffs and partition it among
them as heirs, a defendant who, being also an heir, would share in
the relief if obtained, should not be aligned as a plaintiff for the
purpose of testing jurisdiction by diversity of citizenship, if such
defendant be adversely interested as legatee.
Under constitution and statutes of Texas, the county court has no
equitable jurisdiction of a suit inter parW to annul a disposition in a
will and partition the property among the plaintiffs as heirs where
title to land is involved and the amount in controversy exceeds
$1,000.
Under the constitution of Texas, the District Courts of the State have
no jurisdiction to annul by an original proceeding the action of a
county court in probating a will; and a suit under Stats. Art. 5699 to
contest the validity of a will so probated must be brought in the
county court and calls for an exercise of original probate jurisdiction.
A suit which, in an essential feature, is a suit to annul a will, and which
under the state law is in character merely supplemental to proceedings for probate and cognizable only by the probate court, is not
within the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States
though diversity of citizenship exist and the requisite jurisdictional
amount be in controversy.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Allen G. Fisherfor appellants.
Mr. Cecil H. Smith, with whom Mr. W. R. Abernathy,
Mr. George R. Smith and Mr. Charles Batsell were on the
briefs, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

MR. JusTiCE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States District Court dismissed for want
of jurisdiction a bill in equity brought by appellants, and
certified in substance that the dismissal was based upon
the ground that the bill and its exhibits disclosed no infraction of any right arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States; that the matter was cognizable
solely in the county court of Collin County, Texas, a
court of probate jurisdiction; and that the record disclosed no diversity ,of citizenship upon which the federal
jurisdiction might be based, because it appeared that one
of the defendants who should be considered as a plaintiff
and the remainder of the defendants were in fact citizens
of the same State.
The case comes to us by direct appeal, upon the jurisdictional question only, under ยง 238, Jud. Code.
The bill sets up diversity of -citizenship and the fact
that the amount in controversy exceeds that which is
requisite for jurisdiction. It asserts no federal right. It
alleges that the plaintiffs (seven in number) are citizens
of States.other than Texas, while of those named as defendants six (including Cora D. Spencer) are citizens of
Texas and residents of Colin County in the Sherman
Division of the Eastern District of that State, and the
seventh is a municipal corporation of that State.
The averments of the bill are in substance as follows:
That about the year 1866 Moses Hubbard and Mary
Jane Hubbard, his wife, settled on a parcel of real estate
in Colin County, Texas, and from that time continuously
until the dates of their respective deaths lived as citizens
and inhabitants of that county, and during their joint
lifetime cohabited together as husband and wife; that
the said Moses died in 1906, leaving his wife surviving,
but no descendant or other heir; that she died in 1914,
without children or husband, but leaving her surviving

SUTTON v. ENGLISH.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

the following heirs-at-law: a sister, Rachael E. Kirtley,
two brothers, Albert E. Sutton and Delana M. Sutton,
and the children of a deceased brother, Lewis Sutton,
namely, Cora D. Spencer, Elizabeth E. Davis, Ida Krickbaum, George D. Sutton, and Lewis Sutton, Jr.; and that
afterwards the last named died intestate, unmarried, and
without descendants, leaving his mother, Helen M. Marshall, and his sisters and brother, Cora D. Spencer, Elizabeth E. Davis, Ida Krickbaum, and George D. Sutton,
as his heirs. The persons named are stated to be the only
heirs-at-law of Mary Jane and Moses Hubbard. All of
them are plaintiffs in the suit except Cora D. Spencer,
who is made a defendant.
The bill alleges, further, that Moses and Mary Jane
Hubbard accumulated community property, real and
personal (specified in the bill), of the value of about
$100,000 situate in Collin and Denton counties, all of
which descended to the said Mary Jane as survivor of the

community.
That in the year 1897 Moses Hubbard, being then
"subject to a mania or unsound idea relative to the memory of his deceased daughter," attempted a disposal of
his wife's community property by a purported will (executed by his wife also and in form a joint and several
will), by the terms of which it was attempted to establish in the community property after it should become
separate property of Mary Jane Hubbard a certain charitable trust in perpetuity, in the name of the deceased
daughter. Plaintiffs allege that this trust was void, for
various reasons specified, and that if the instrument had
any effect in law it created a naked trust whereof the said
Mary Jane Hubbard was sole beneficiary. That afterwards and in the month of January, 1913, the defendant
English, joining with himself the defendants Finley, Robinson, and Foster, acting as trustees of the charity, filed
a petition in the district court of Collin County against

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Mary Jane Hubbard and another, wherein it was alleged
that the will of 1897 was a joint will, constituting an
agreement binding upon both Moses and Mary Jane Hubbard, under which she received rights, emoluments, and
privileges which she would not have had otherwise, and
that she had accepted the will, and at all times since its
probating had accepted and exercised those rights, privileges, and emoluments, by reason whereof the will was
irrevocable by her, and that a trust was thereby created
in behalf of the said English, Finley, Robinson, and Foster; that said petition prayed for a citation thereon and
judgment that a trust be declared in favor of the petitioners; but plaintiffs herein allege that no citation was issued, that Mary Jane Hubbard had no notice of the
proceedings, and that she was deceived into signing a purported waiver and disclaimer which was without consideration and void; that the judgment was never given by
any judge or person possessing judicial power within the
State of Texas; and that the petition was in effect an application for'the construction of the paper as the will of
Moses Hubbard, of which the district court had not jurisdiction in the first instance, and for which construction
there was then and yet pending in the county probate
court of Collin County a petition signed by the said purported trustees whereupon the judgment of the said
county court would be binding upon them without the
assumption of power in the district court of said county.
That, in addition to the community property, Mary
Jane Hubbard accumulated real and personal property
amounting in value to about $18,000; and that in her
last sickness, while she was clouded in her intellect and
was not of sound or disposing mind or memory, she was
unduly influenced by the defendant English to execute
an instrument in the form of a will purporting to dispose
of her accumulations and separate property, by the 12th
paragraph of which she gave and bequeathed all the res-

SUTTON v. ENGLISH.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

idue of her property to her niece Cora D. Spencer; that
this will "ought to be annulled and set aside and held for
naught; nevertheless, these plaintiffs do not desire to interfere with the distribution made by the defendant,
Clayton, purporting to act as executor of said will, but
they bring this bill for the purpose of having it annulled
to the extent only that the 12th paragraph . . . be
decreed . . . not to be a testamentary disposition
of that portion of her separate estate which had once been
community estate of the said Moses Hubbard and Mary
Jane Hubbard;" and that the community property should
be decreed to pass to the plaintiffs pursuant to the statutes of Texas as estate not devised or bequeathed, and
should be divided among the plaintiffs in certain proportions specified.
The bill avers that the defendant English has usurped
and taken possession of seven tracts of real estate and
certain moneys, notes, and credits particularly described,
and has rented the lands and converted to his own u~e
their annual profit.
The prayer is that the defendants English, Finley,
Robinson, and Foster account concerning the rents, issues, profits and income of said real estate and personal
property; that the joint will of 1897 and every claim,
judgment, or right based thereon be set aside and held
for naught; that the supposed will signed by Mary Jane
Hubbard, dated in 1914, and the 12th clause thereof be
canceled and set aside and annulled; and that the property described in the bill and the earnings and rentals
thereof be decreed to be the property of the plaintiffs as
heirs-at-law of Mary Jane Hubbard, deceased, and be
partitioned between them. There is also a prayer for general relief.
The objects of the suit, in their logical order, appear
to be as follows: (1) to treat the joint will of 1897 as inefficacious to dispose of the community property, either

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

because this became the separate property of Mary Jane
Hubbard at her husband's death, or because of Moses
Hubbard's mental incapacity or the illegality of the terms
of the trust; (2) to set aside a judgment said to have been
obtained in the Collin County district court by defendant English and others, devisees under the joint will, establishing their title to the community property as
against Mary Jane Hubbard; (3) to have her will annulled
at least to the extent that the 12th paragraph, which
gives and bequeaths all the residue of her property to Cora
D. Spencer, be decreed not to be a testamentary disposition of that portion of the estate of testatrix which had
been community property; and (4) that the community
property, having thus been shown to have been separate
estate of Mary Jane Hubbard and not to have been devised by her, be decreed to have passed to the plaintiffs
as her heirs-at-law and be partitioned between them.
Upon this statement, it will be apparent that the court
below erred in holding, as it did, that the defendant Cora
D. Spencer should be treated as one of the plaintiffs and
aligned with them for the purpose of determining the
question of diversity of citizenship. Provided plaintiffs
attained their first three objects, her interest would be
the same as theirs with respect to the prayer for partition;
but before this result could be reached plaintiffs must
prevail as to their third object, and with respect to this
her interest was altogether adverse to theirs. Therefore
she was properly made a party defendant, that being her
attitude towards the actual and substantial controversy.
See Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, 468, Pacific R. R. v.
Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 298; Barney v. Latham, 103 U.
S. 205, 211; Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562, 566;
Helm v. Zarecor, 222 U. S. 32, 36.
This brings us to the question whether the subject matter of the suit is within the jurisdiction of a court of the
United States.

SUTTON . ENGLISH.
199.

205

Opinion of the Court.

By a series of decisions in this court it has been established that since it does not pertain to the general jurisdiction of a court of equity to set aside a will or the
probate thereof, or to administer upon the estates of decedents in rem, matters of this character are not within the
ordinary equity jurisdiction of the federal courts; that
as the authority to make wills is derived from the States,
and the requirement of probate is but a regulation to
make a will effective, matters of strict probate are not
within the jurisdiction of courts of the United States;
that where a State, by statute or custom, gives to parties
interested the right to bring an action or suit inter partes,
either at law or in equity, to annul a will or to set aside
the probate, the courts of the United States, where diversity of citizenship and a sufficient amount in controversy
appear, can enforce the same remedy, but that this relates only to independent suits, and not to procedure
merely incidental or ancillary to the probate; and further,
that questions relating to the interests of heirs, devisees,
or legatees, or trusts affecting such interests, which may
be determined without interfering with probate or assuming general administration, are within the jurisdiction of
the federal courts where diversity of citizenship exists
and the requisite amount is in controversy. Broderick's
Will, 21 Wall. 503, 509, 512; Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485,
494, et seq.; Farrell v. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89, 110; Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank Co., 215 U. S. 33, 43.
It is the contention of appellants that the United
States District Court had original jurisdiction of this
cause (there being diversity of citizenship and a sufficient
amount in controversy) because jurisdiction over a suit
in equ4ty of the same character would have existed in the
county or district courts of the State.
In order to test this, we must consider the nature and
extent of the jurisdiction of the courts referred to, as established by the constitution of Texas and statutes

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

passed in pursuance thereof (Vernon's Sayles' Tex. Civ.
Stats. 1914), the material provisions of which are as follows: Under Const., Art. V, ยง 16, and Stats. Arts. 3206,
1763, 1764, 1766 and 1771, the county court has the general jurisdiction of a probate court, with power to probate
wills, grant letters testamentary or of administration,
settle accounts of executors and administrators, etc.; exclusive original jurisdiction in civil cases when the matter
in controversy exceeds $200 and does not exceed $500,
and concurrent jurisdiction with the district court when
the matter in controversy. exceeds $500 and does not exceed $1,000, but no jurisdiction of suits for the recovery
of land or for the enforcement of liens upon land; and general authority to hear and determine any case, either of
law or equity, but subject to certain limitations including
those just mentioned. Under Const. Art. V, ยง 8, and
Stats. Arts. 1705, 1706, 1712, and 3207, the district court
has "appellate jurisdiction and general control in probate
matters over the county court established in each county
for the probating of wills, granting letters testamentary
or of administration, settling the accounts of executors
and administrators," etc.; also "original jurisdiction and
general control over executors and administrators under
such regulations as may be prescribed by law"; original
jurisdiction of all suits for the trial of title to land and
for the enforcement of liens thereon, and of all suits, without regard to any distinction between law and equity,
when the matter in controversy exceeds $500; and, subject to limitations not now pertinent, general jurisdiction over any cause cognizable by courts either of law or

equity.
It will be seen that the contention must be oyerruled
at once, so far as concerns the equitable jurisdiction of
the county court, because in the case before us the title
to land is involved and the matter in controversy exceeds
$1,000. The jurisdiction of the district court is not thus

SUTTON r. ENGLISH.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

limited, and, under local decisions (Japhetv. Pullen, 63
Tex. Civ. App. 157, and cases cited), it may be assumed
that an independent suit in equity could be entertained
by that court, and therefore-under the decisions of this
court to which reference has been made-might be
brought in the United States District Court, for the purpose of construing the joint will of Moses and Mary Jane
Hubbard as inefficacious to dispose of the commu4ty
property, and to set aside, for fraud or on other grounds,
the judgment recovered by the defendants English and
others against Mary Jane Hubbard establishing their title to that property; and that, if the title of complainants
as heirs-at-law of Mary Jane Hubbard could thus be
shown, the jurisdiction to partition the property would
follow as of course. But, as already pointed out, even
could complainants succeed in showing that Mary Jane
Hubbard at the time of her death was entitled to the
community property, her will giving all the residue of
her property to Cora D. Spencer still stands in the way
of their succeeding to it as heirs-at-law, and hence their
prayer to have that will annulled with respect to the residuary clause isessential to their right to any relief in
the suit.
But it is established by repeated decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas that under the present constitution the district courts have no jurisdiction to annul by
an original 'proceeding the action of a county court in
probating a will, their jurisdiction in the premises being
confined to a review by appeal or certiorari, which are in
effect but a continuation of the probate proceedings. It
is further held that under a statutory provision (Art.
5699) reading: "Any person interested in any will which
shall have been probated under the laws of this state may
institute suit in the proper court to contest the validity
thereof within four years after such will shall have been
admitted to probate, and not afterwards," such a suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

must be instituted in the court in which the will was admitted to probate, that is to say, in the county court; and
that it calls for an exercise of original probate jurisdiction. Franks v. Chapman, 60 Texas, 46; Franksv. Chapman, 61 Texas, 576,579,582,583; Heathv.Layne, 62Texas,
686; Fisherv. Wood, 65 Texas, 199, 204. And see Dew v.
Dew, 23 Tex. Civ. App. 676; Hilgers v. Hilgers, 159 S. W.
Rep.
The851.
present suit being, in an essential feature,
a suit
to annul the will of Mary Jane Hubbard, and a proceeding of this character being by the laws of Texas merely
supplemental to the proceedings for probate of the will
and cognizable only by the probate court, it follows from
what we have said that the controversy is not within the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
Decree affirmed.

DENEE v. ANKENY, EXECUTRIX OF RIDPATH.
.GUNNING ET AL. v. MORRISON ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
Nos. 147, 440. Argued January 23, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

An attempt to establish settlement by stealth and retain it by force
against one who is in peaceable possession of public lands bona fide
claiming them is not countenanced by the Homestead Law.
One who would acquire under the Homestead Law unappropriated
public lands which are in the peaceable possession of another, is
subject to the law of the State against stealthy entries and forcible
detainers and providing for summary restoration of possessions so
displaced without inquiry into the title or right of possession. Such
a case presents no conflict between the state and federal law.

