OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

STADELMAN ET AL. v. MINER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 644.

Submitted January 2, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.

Under Jud. Code, § 237, as amended by the Act of September 6, 1916,
a final judgment of a state court is not reviewable by writ of error
if no treaty or statute or authority exercised under a State or the
United States was drawn in question.
An objection that the judgment of a state court ordering sale of real
estate denies due process to nonresident parties served by publication, in that the order was made before the service was complete
under the state statutes, merely challenges the power of the state
court to proceed to a decision, and this does not draw in question the
validity of any authority exercised under the State, within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237, as amended. Philadelphia& Reading Coal
& Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162.
Writ of error to review 83 Oregon, 348, 379, 388, dismised.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John M. Gearin and Mr. Harry G. Hoy for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Guy C. H. Corliss for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The statutes of Oregon provide, that when it becomes
necessary to sell real estate of a decedent in order to pay
his debts (Lord's Oregon Laws, §§ 1252-1270), the adminI On January 7, 1918, the case was dismissed per curiam for want
of jurisdiction, 245 U. S. 636; on March 18, 1918, a petition for rehearing was granted, the former dismissal set aside, and it was ordered that the case stand for consideration under the prior submission.
ante, 311.

STADELMAN v. MINER.
544.

Opinion of the Court.

istrator shall file a petition therefor; and that a citation
shall issue to heirs known and unknown "to appear at a
term of court therein mentioned, not less than ten days
after the service of such citation, to show cause, if any
exist, why an order of sale should not be made as in the
petition prayed for." § 1254. The statutes also provide
for the service of unknown or non-resident heirs by publication for "not less than four weeks, or for such further
time as the court or judge may prescribe." § 1255.
In 1897 Charles W. Fletcher died intestate in Oregon.
His administrator filed in the county court a petition for
the sale of the decedent's real estate in order to pay debts;
and the citation was ordered to be served upon the unknown or non-resident heirs by publication in a newspaper
for four weeks. Publication was made in conformity to the
order, the first publication being on June 17, 1902. Under
the statute, the state court finds that the hearing on the
petition should not have been held before July 24th.
It was actually held on July 17th; and an order of sale
was then entered by the county court under which the
property was sold to Nelson, through whom Miner and
Worden claim title by mesne conveyances. The deceased
had left surviving two children who were non-residents,
Mrs. Stadelman and Henry H. Fletcher. Thereafter, these
two and one Motley (a grantee from them of a part interest in the property) brought, in an appropriate state
court of Oregon, an independent suit to quiet title and
claimed to own the property on the ground that the order
of the county court and the sale to Nelson thereunder were
void. A decree was rendered by the trial court in their
favor; and it was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme Court
of the State, where two curative acts were unsuccessfully
invoked to sustain the validity of the Miner and Worden
title. 83 Oregon, 348, 355. A petition for rehearing was
filed; and on January 30, 1917, the Supreme Court reversed
its decision and the decree of the lower court and dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

missed the suit. It held that failure to observe the statutory requirement as to time for hearing was a defect rendering the order voidable merely and not void; that the
defect did not operate to deprive the county court of
jurisdiction; that the defects could have been availed
of only in a direct attack; and that it afforded no basis for
a collateral attack, in an independent suit, upon the order
and the sale thereunder. 83 Oregon, 379. This conclusion
was confirmed by the same court upon a second petition for
a rehearing. 83 Oregon, 388.
At the first argument of the case in the Supreme Court
of Oregon, plaintiffs contended that to sustain the validity
of the sale under the order of the county court would deprive them of their right to due process of law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment (See Memorandum Opinion of this Court, ante 311). Upon this contention the case
was brought here under § 237 of the Judicial Code. But
under that section, as amended by Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, a final decree of a state court
of last resort can be reviewed here on writ of error only in
a suit "where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
States, and the decision is against their validity; or where
is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity."
The judgment here involved was enteied after the Act of
September 6, 1916, took effect. There was not drawn in
question the validity of any treaty or statute. And challenging the power of the court to proceed to a decision did
not draw in question the validity of any authority exercised
under the State. Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co.
v. Gilbert,245 U. S. 162; Irelandv. Woods, ante, 323. The
writ of error is therefore
Dismissed.

