KIMBLE v. SWACKHAMER
Opinion in Chambers

KIMBLE ET AL. v. SWACKHAMER, SECRETARY OF

STATE OF NEVADA,

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION

No. A-354 (78-657).

Decided October 20, 1978

Application to enjoin, pending disposition of an appeal, the placement on
the November 1978 ballot in Nevada of an advisory referendum for the
Nevada Legislature's benefit on the Equal Rights Amendment, is denied.
It appears unlikely that four Justices of this Court would vote to note
probable jurisdiction to consider applicants' claim that the Nevada
statute authorizing the referendum violates Art. V of the Federal

Constitution.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.
Applicants request that I "summarily reverse" a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Nevada holding that the Constitution of the United States does not prohibit the Nevada
Legislature from providing for an advisory referendum on the
proposed amendment to the United States Constitution commonly known as the Equal Rights Amendment. In the
alternative, they apparently request that I either enjoin the
placement of the referendum question on the November ballot
in Nevada, or require that the ballots be impounded and their
counting be deferred until this Court has had an opportunity
to pass on applicants' jurisdictional statement seeking review
of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nevada.
It scarcely requires reference to authority to conclude that a
single Circuit Justice has no authority to "summarily reverse"
a judgment of the highest court of a State; a single Justice
has authority only to grant interim relief in order to preserve
the jurisdiction of the full Court to consider an applicant's
claim on the merits. 28 U. S. C. § 1651 (b); this Court's
Rule 51 (1). Since the likelihood that applicants' claim on
the merits would induce four Justices of this Court to note

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

probable jurisdiction on their appeal seems to me very remote,
I find it unnecessary to deal with their contention that failure
on the part of a single Justice to grant some sort of interim
relief will cause them irreparable injury.
In 1977 the Nevada Legislature enacted a statute requiring
the submission of an advisory question to the registered voters
of the State as to whether the Equal Rights Amendment
should be ratified by the legislature. The statute expressly
provides that "the result of the voting on this question does
not place any legal requirement on the legislature or any of
its members." 1977 Nev. Stats., ch. 174, §§ 3, 5. Applicants asked the Nevada state courts to enjoin respondent
Swackhamer, the Secretary of State of Nevada., from complying with the statute. The trial court in Carson City denied
their request for relief, and the Supreme Court of Nevada
affirmed that ruling by a vote of four to one.
Applicants contend that the Nevada statute providing for
an advisory referendum for the benefit of the legislature is
repugnant to Art. V of the United States Constitution because
it "alters the mode of ratification of a proposed constitutional
amendment by . . . providing for citizen participation in the
amendatory process through the State's electoral machinery."
Juris. Statement 3. Applicants also contend that Art. V is
offended insofar as the statute requires the Nevada Legislature
to defer action on ratification until it receives the results of
the referendum, which is not to occur until the next regularly
scheduled election of Nevada legislators.
The plain meaning of the Nevada statute and the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Nevada convince me that the deferral
issue presented by the latter contention is not in this case
because the Nevada statute does not prevent the state legislature from acting on the Equal Rights Amendment before
the referendum. That the Nevada Legislature is unlikely to
vote on the amendment before a referendum that it mandated

KIMBLE v. SWACKHAMER
1395

Opinion in Chambers

is not a constitutionally cognizable grievance. Applicants'
other contention, objecting to citizen participation in the
amendatory process, is in my opinion not substantial because
of the nonbinding character of the referendum. The Supreme
Court of Nevada said with respect to the statute that it "does
not concern a binding referendum, nor does it impose a limitation upon the legislature. As already noted, the legislature
may vote for or against ratification, or refrain from voting on
ratification at all, without regard to the advisory vote. The
recommendation of the voters is advisory only." App. to
Juris. Statement 4a.
Under these circumstances, applicants' reliance upon this
Court's decisions in Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130 (1922),
and Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S. 221 (1920), is obviously
misplaced. Both seem to me to stand for the proposition that
the two methods for state ratification of proposed constitutional amendments set forth in Art. V of the United States
Constitution are exclusive: Ratification must be by the legislatures of three-fourths of the States or by conventions in
three-fourths of the States. Leser, supra, held that Art. V
afforded no basis for the argument that an amendment was
not properly ratified because ratification resolutions in certain
States had not complied with state statutory requirements
over and above those prescribed for ratification by Congress
and by Art. V. Hawke, supra, held that a state statute
providing for ratification by a binding referendum of the
electorate was contrary to Art. V, since that Article had specified one of the alternative methods as being ratification by the
state legislature and Congress had chosen that alternative.
Under the Nevada statute in question, ratification will still
depend on the vote of the Nevada Legislature, as provided by
Congress and by Art. V. I would be most disinclined to read
either Hawke, supra, or Leser, supra, or Art. V as ruling out
communication between the members of the legislature and

1388

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

their constituents. If each member of the Nevada Legislature
is free to obtain the views of constituents in the legislative
district which he represents, I can see no constitutional obstacle to a nonbinding, advisory referendum of this sort. The
application for interim relief is accordingly
Denied.

