UNITED METHODIST COUNCIL v. SUPERIOR COURT

1355

Opinion in Chambers

GENERAL COUNCIL ON FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION, UNITED METHODIST CHURCH v. CALIFORNIA SUPERIOR COURT, SAN DIEGO

COUNTY (BARR

ET AL.,

REAL

PARTIES IN INTEREST)
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-200. Decided August 24, 1978
Application to stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari,
California Superior Court proceedings in which applicant is a defendant
is granted temporarily, pending receipt and consideration of a response
to the application, notwithstanding inexcusable delay in filing the
application.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant requests that proceedings in the Superior Court
of the State of California for the County of San Diego in
which it is a defendant be stayed as to it pending consideration by this Court of its petition for a writ of certiorari to
review the judgment of that court filed March 20, 1978. I
have decided to grant a temporary stay of the proceedings
against applicant pending receipt and my consideration of a
response to the application.
Applicant has, in my opinion, inexcusably delayed the filing
of its application for a stay. The Supreme Court of the State
of California denied applicant's petition for hearing on its
request for a writ of mandate on July 27, 1978. On August 3,
1978, the Superior Court granted applicant 30 days from
July 27, 1978, until August 28, in which to plead, but denied
any additional stay of the proceedings. Applicant did not
seek any further stay of the proceedings from either the
California Court of Appeal or the California Supreme Court.
Nevertheless, it did not file its application for a stay in this
Court until August 22, nearly three weeks after the Superior
Court's order and only six days before it was required to plead.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1356

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

It is only because a delay of a few days will have virtually
no effect on the progress of the state-court proceedings that
I have decided to grant this temporary stay. It should be
noted, however, that in deciding whether to grant or deny any
further relief of this nature beyond that provided in this order,
I shall take into consideration the above-described delay on

the applicant's part.

