1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

NEW YORK TIMES CO. F A. v. JASCALEVICH
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-38. Decided July 12, 1978
Reapplication for stay of New Jersey Supreme Court's order, following
denial of initial application, see ante, p. 1301, is denied. At this premature stage of the state-court proceedings, applicants have failed to meet
the burden for issuance of such a stay-a showing that there is "a
balance of hardships in their favor" and that four Justices of this Court
likely would vote to grant certiorari.

MIR. J-USTICE MASHAL.
The New York Times and one of its journalists have applied
to me for a stay of an order of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, issued July 6, 1978, pending the filing and disposition
of applicants' petition for certiorari. MR. JusTics W irr
yesterday denied the application, and the pertinent facts are
stated in his opinion. Ante, p. 1301. The principle issue that
applicants intend to raise in their petition for certiorari is
whether,
"when a motion to quash a subpoena duces tecum issued
to the news media is made, the court before which such
motion is returnable shall be required to make threshold
determinations with respect to the facial invalidity of the
subpoena, as well as preliminary rulings on materiality
and privilege, prior to compelling the production of all
subpoenaed materials." Application 10 (emphasis in
original).
The standards for issuance of a stay pending disposition of
a petition for certiorari are well established. Applicants bear
the burden of persuasion on two questions: whether there is
"a balance of hardships in their favor"; and whether four
Justices of this Court would likely vote to grant a writ of
certiorari. Beame v. Friends of the Earth, 434 U. S. 1310,

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1304

1305

Opinion in Chambers

1312-1314 (1977) (MARSHALL, J., in chambers). Their
"burden is particularly heavy when, as here, a stay has been
denied by the [lower courts]," id., at 1312, in this case
including two appellate courts as well as the trial court.
Here, moreover, a stay has been denied by another Justice
of this Court.
I do not believe that applicants have met their burden.
There are, of course, important and unresolved questions
regarding the obligation of a newsperson to divulge confidential files and other material sought by the prosecution or
defense in connection with criminal proceedings. It may well
be, moreover, that forced disclosure of these materials, even to
a judge for in camera inspection, will have a deleterious effect
on the ability of the news media effectively to gather information in the public interest, as is alleged by applicants.
It does not follow, however, that applicants are entitled to
a stay at this stage in the proceedings. It has been the rule
in the federal courts for many years that
''one to whom a subpoena is directed may not appeal the
denial of a motion to quash that subpoena but must either
obey its commands or refuse to do so and contest the
validity of the subpoena if he is subsequently cited for
contempt on account of his failure to obey." United
States v. Ryan, 402 U. S. 530, 532 (1971), citing Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U. S. 323 (1940).
While this rule is based on a federal statute and is thus not
directly applicable here, the policies underlying it are clearly
relevant to resolution of this stay application. These policies
include a desire to avoid "obstructing or impeding an ongoing judicial proceeding" and a corresponding interest in
"hasten[ing] the ultimate termination of litigation." United
States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683, 690 (1974); see Cobbledick v.
United States, supra, at 324-326. Such considerations cannot
be ignored in evaluating the "balance of hardships" in this case

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

and the likelihood that four Justices would vote to grant
certiorari.
Applicants are seeking a stay and certiorari in the midst of
an ongoing criminal trial. If a stay were granted, the trial
might be interrupted to await this Court's decision on the
certiorari petition, or, if the trial proceeded to conviction,
reversal on appeal might result from the defendant's inability
to obtain evidence that he apparently considers vital to his
defense. It is true, of course, that either of these undesirable
outcomes might occur if applicants refuse to comply with the
subpoena and are adjudicated in contempt. At that point,
however, the judicial system would have done all that it could
do to obtain the materials sought by the defense.
In light of these considerations, applicants are plainly not
entitled to a stay at this time. This conclusion is buttressed
by the fact that, if applicants do refuse to comply with the
subpoena, they presumably will have an opportunity in
subsequent contempt proceedings to raise the same arguments
that they seek to raise here. This case, moreover, involves
an order to turn materials over to a judge for in camera inspection; whether the materials will eventually be released to
the defense and the public is a matter yet to be litigated.
The application for a stay is denied.

