OCTOBER TERM, 1978

1348

439 U. S.

Opinion in Chambers

COLUMBUS BOARD OF EDUCATION

ET AL.

v. PENICK

ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-134. Decided August 11, 1978
Application for stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari,
of Court of Appeals' judgment and mandate affirming an extensive
desegregation order for the Columbus, Ohio, public school system is
granted, where it appears that such order will place severe burdens,
financial and otherwise, on the school system and the community in
general and that it is likely that four Justices of the Court will vote to
grant certiorari.
See: 583 F. 2d 787.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST.

The Columbus, Ohio, Board of Education and the Superintendent of the Columbus public schools request that I stay
execution of the judgment and the mandate of the Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and execution of the judgment
of the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Ohio in this case pending consideration by this Court of
their petition for certiorari. The Court of Appeals' judgment
at issue affirmed findings of systemwide violations of the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment on
the part of the Columbus Board of Education, and upheld
an extensive school desegregation plan for the Columbus
school system. The remedy will require reassignment of
42,000 students; alteration of the grade organization of almost
every elementary school in the Columbus system; the closing
of 33 schools; reassignment of teachers, staff, and administrators; and the transportation of over 37,000 students. The
1978-1979 school year begins on September 7, and the applicants maintain that failure to stay immediately the judgment
and mandate of the Court of Appeals will cause immeasurable
and irreversible harm to the school system and the commu-

COLUMBUS BOARD OF EDUCATION v. PENICK
1348

1349

Opinion in Chambers

nity. The respondents are individual plaintiffs and a plaintiff class consisting of all children attending Columbus public
schools, together with their parents and guardians.
This stay application comes to me after extensive and complicated litigation. On March 8, 1977, the District Court for
the Southern District of Ohio issued an opinion declaring the
Columbus school system unconstitutionally segregated and
ordering the defendants to develop and submit proposals for
a systemwide remedy. 429 F. Supp. 229. That decision predated this Court's opinions in three important school desegregation cases: Dayton Board of Education v. Brinkman, 433
U. S. 406 (1977) ; Brennan v. Armstrong, 433 U. S. 672 (1977) ;
and School District of Omaha v. United States, 433 U. S. 667
(1977). In the lead case, Dayton, this Court held that when
fashioning a remedy for constitutional violations by a school
board, the court "must determine how much incremental
segregative effect these violations had on the racial distribution of the . . . school population as presently constituted,
when that distribution is compared to what it would have
been in the absence of such constitutional violations. The
remedy must be designed to redress that difference, and only if
there has been a systemwide impact may there be a systemwide remedy." 433 U. S., at 420. The defendants moved
that the District Court reconsider its violation findings and
adjust its remedial order in light of our Dayton opinion. Upon
such reconsideration, the District Court concluded that Dayton simply restated the established precept that the remedy
must not exceed the scope of the violation. Since it had found
a systemwide violation, the District Court deemed a systemwide remedy appropriate without the specific findings mandated by Dayton on the impact discrete segregative acts had
on the racial composition of individual schools within the
system. The Sixth Circuit affirmed. 583 F. 2d 787 (1978).
Prior to its submission to me, this application for stay was
denied by MR. Jus=cE STEWART. While I am naturally
reluctant to take action in this matter different from that

1350

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

taken by him, this case has come to me in a special context.
Four days before the application for stay was filed in this
Court, the Sixth Circuit issued its opinion in the Dayton
remand. Brinkman v. Gilligan, 583 F. 2d 243 (1978) (Dayton IV). Pursuant to this Court's opinion in Dayton, the
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio had held
a new evidentiary hearing on the scope of any constitutional
violations by the Dayton school board and the appropriate
remedy with regard to those violations. It had concluded
that Dayton required a finding of segregative intent with respect to each violation and a remedy drawn to correct the
incremental segregative impact of each violation. On that
basis the District Court had found no constitutional violations
and had dismissed the complaint. The Sixth Circuit reversed,
characterizing as a "misunderstanding" the District Court's
reading of our Dayton opinion. Dayton IV, supra,at 246. It
reinstated the systemwide remedy that it had originally
affirmed in Brinkman v. Gilligan,539 F. 2d 1084 (1976) (Dayton III), vacated and remanded sub nom. Dayton Board of
Educationv. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406 (1977).
Dayton IV and the instant case clearly indicate to me that
the Sixth Circuit has misinterpreted the mandate of this
Court's Dayton opinion. During the Term of the Court, I
would refer the application for a stay in a case as significant
as this one to the full Court. But that is impossible here.
The opinions of the District Court and the Court of Appeals
total almost 200 pages of some complexity. It would be impracticable for me to even informally circularize my colleagues,
with an opportunity for meaningful analysis, within the time
necessary to act if the applicants are to be afforded any relief
and the Columbus community's expectations adjusted for the
coming school year.
I am of the opinion that the Sixth Circuit in this case
evinced an unduly grudging application of Dayton. Simply
the fact that three Justices of this Court might agree with me

COLUMBUS BOARD OF EDUCATION v. PENICK
1348

1351

Opinion in Chambers

would not necessarily mean that the petition for certiorari
would be granted. But this case cannot be considered without
reference to the Sixth Circuit's opinion in Dayton IV. In
both cases the Court of Appeals employed legal presumptions
of intent to extrapolate systemwide violations from what was
described in the Columbus case as "isolated" instances. 583
F. 2d, at 805. The Sixth Circuit is apparently of the opinion
that presumptions, in combination with such isolated violations, can be used to justify a systemwide remedy where such
a remedy would not be warranted by the incremental segregative effect of the identified violations. That is certainly not
my reading of Dayton and it appears inconsistent with this
Court's decision to vacate and remand the Sixth Circuit's
opinion in Dayton III. In my opinion, this questionable use
of legal presumptions, combined with the fact that the
Dayton and Columbus cases involve transportation of over
52,000 schoolchildren, would lead four Justices of this Court to
vote to grant certiorari in at least one case and hold the other
in abeyance until disposition of the first.
On the basis of the District Court's findings, some relief
may be justified in this case under the principles laid down
in Dayton. Two instances where the school system set up
discontiguous attendance areas that resulted in white children
being transported past predominantly black schools may be
clear violations warranting relief. But the failure of the
District Court and the Court of Appeals to make any findings
on the incremental segregative effect of these violations makes
it impossible for me to tailor a stay to allow the applicants a
more limited form of relief.
In their response, the plaintiffs/respondents also take an
"all or nothing" approach and do not offer any suggestions
as to how the mandate and judgment of the Court of Appeals
can be stayed only in part consistent with the applicants'
legal contentions. I therefore have no recourse but to grant
or deny the stay of the mandate and judgment in its entirety.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

Opinon in Chambers

439 U. S.

The last inquiry in gauging the appropriateness of a stay
is the balance of equities. If the stay is granted the respondent children's opportunity for a more integrated educational
experience is forestalled. How many children and how integrated an educational experience are impossible to discern because of the failure of the courts below to inquire how the
complexion of the school system was affected by specific
violations.
In contrast, the impact of the failure to grant a stay on the
applicants is quite concrete. Extensive preparations toward
implementation of the desegregation plan have taken place,
but an affidavit filed in this Court by the Superintendent of
the Columbus public schools indicates that major activities
remain for the four weeks before the new school term begins.
These activities include inventory, packing, and moving of
furniture, textbooks, equipment, and supplies; completion of
pupil reassignments, bus routes and schedules, and staff and
administrative reassignments; construction of bus storage and
maintenance facilities; hiring and training of new busdrivers;
and notification to parents of pupil reassignments and bus
information. Such activities cannot be easily reversed. Most
important, on September 7 there will occur the personal dislocations that accompany the actual reassignment of 42,000
students, 37,000 of whom will be transported by bus.
The Columbus school system has severe financial difficulties.
It is estimated that for calendar year 1978 the system will
have a cash deficit of $9.5 million, $7.3 million of which is
calculated to be desegregation expenses. Under Ohio law
school districts are not permitted to operate when cash balances fall to zero and it is now projected that the Columbus
school system will be forced to close in mid-November 1978.
Financial exigency is not an excuse for failure to comply with
a court order, but it is a relevant consideration in balancing
the equities of a temporary stay.
Given the severe burdens that the school desegregation order

COLUMBUS BOARD OF EDUCATION v. PENICK
134S

1353

Opinion in Chambers

will place on the Columbus school system and the Columbus
community in general, and the likelihood that four Justices
of this Court will vote to grant certiorari in this case, I have
decided to grant the stay of the judgment and mandate of
the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and the judgment
of the District Court.
As this Court noted in Dayton, "local autonomy of school
districts is a vital national tradition." 433 U. S., at 410.
School desegregation orders are among the most sensitive encroachments on that tradition, not only because they affect
the assignment of pupils and teachers, hut also because they
often restructure the system of education. In this case the
desegregation order requires alteration of the grade organization of virtually every elementary school in Columbus. As
this Court emphasized in Dayton, judicial imposition on this
established province of the community is only proper in the
face of factual proof of constitutional violations and then only
to the extent necessary to remedy the effect of those violations.
It is therefore ordered that the application for a stay of
the judgment and mandate of the Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit and the judgment of the District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio be granted pending consideration of
a timely petition for certiorari. The stay is to remain in effect
until disposition of the petition for certiorari. If the petition
is granted, the stay shall remain in effect until further order of
this Court.

