NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH

1317

Opinion in Chambers

NEW YORK TIMES CO. ET AL. v. JASCALEVICH
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-111.

Decided August 1, 1978

MR. JUSTICE WHITE.

This is an application for a stay of an order of the Supreme
Court of New Jersey refusing to stay, except temporarily to
permit this application, an order of the Superior Court of New
Jersey holding applicants in civil contempt for refusing to
obey a subpoena for documents that was issued at the behest
of the defendant in the course of an ongoing murder trial and
that the Superior Court refused to quash.' Applicant Farber,
a reporter for the New York Times, a newspaper, was committed to jail until he complied with the subpoena by submitting the requested documents for in camera inspection by
the trial judge; and the New York Times Co., the corporation owning and controlling the newspaper, was ordered
to pay $5,000 for each day of noncompliance with the subpoena. Both applicants were also found guilty of criminal
contempt. On appeal to the Superior Court of New Jersey,
Appellate Division, that court stayed the convictions for
criminal contempt but refused to stay the civil contempt judgment. It did expedite the appellate proceedings, which are
still pending. The Supreme Court of New Jersey in turn
refused to stay the Superior Court's judgment and to take
immediate jurisdiction of the appeal.
1 Judge Arnold informed applicants that he would not rule on the
merits of their motion to quash until he had the opportunity to examine
the documents in camera. He then ordered the production of the documents for his inspection. Applicants unsuccessfully appealed through
the New Jersey system seeking a stay of Judge Arnold's order. They
then took their application to two individual Justices of this Court, both
of whom denied relief. Ante, p. 1301 (WHrrE, J., in chambers); ante,
p. 1304 (MARSHALL, J., in chambers).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

This application for stay, which then followed, was addressed to MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, but upon his recusal was
referred to me at 11 a. m. on July 28. Because the stay
entered by the New Jersey Supreme Court would otherwise
have expired an hour later, a temporary stay was entered to
permit an examination of the somewhat voluminous papers
filed in support of the application and to consider a response
which was requested from respondent.
There is an initial question of the jurisdiction of an individual Justice or of the Court to enter a stay in circumstances
such as these. Under 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (f), a stay is authorized only if the judgment sought to be stayed is final and is
subject to review by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari.'
Whether a state-court judgment is subject to review by the
Supreme Court on writ of certiorari is in turn governed by 28
U. S. C. § 1257, which provides that we have jurisdiction to
review "[flinal judgments or decrees rendered by the highest
court of a State in which a decision could be had. .. ." Also,
it is only final judgments with respect to issues of federal law
that provide the basis for our appellate jurisdiction with respect to state-court cases.
Although an order, such as is involved in this case, refusing
to quash a subpoena and directing compliance would ordinarily
"In any case in which the final judgment or decree of any court
is subject to review by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari, the execution and enforcement of such judgment or decree may be stayed for a
reasonable time to enable the party aggrieved to obtain a writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court. The stay may be granted by a judge of
the court rendering the judgment or decree or by a justice of the Supreme
Court, and may be conditioned on the giving of security, approved by such
judge or justice, that if the aggrieved party fails to make application for
such writ within the period allowed therefor, or fails to obtain an order
2

granting his application, or fails to make his plea good in the Supreme
Court, he shall answer for all damages and costs which the other party
may sustain by reason of the stay."

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1317

Opinion in Chambers

not satisfy the finality requirement, United States v. Nixon,
418 U. S. 683, 690-691 (1974), and cases cited, a criminal or
civil contempt judgment imposed for refusing to obey the
order presents a different consideration. At least where such
judgments are entered against nonparty witnesses, such as
the present applicants, the judgments are "final" for the purposes of appellate jurisdiction within the federal system.3
They are also final for purposes of this Court's jurisdiction to
review state-court judgments if they have been rendered by
the highest court of the State in which decision could be had.
In this case, the New Jersey Superior Court entered civil
and criminal contempt judgments against each of the applicants. Appeals from these judgments are pending in the
Appellate Division. The criminal contempt judgments have
been stayed; but both the Appellate Division and the New
Jersey Supreme Court have refused to stay the judgments
for civil contempt, and it is the civil judgment that is the
object of the present stay application. Because the judgment for civil contempt remains under review in the New
Jersey appellate courts, it would not appear to be a final judgment "rendered by the highest court of a State in which a decision could be had." This was the case in Valenti v. Spector,
79 S. Ct. 7, 3 L. Ed. 2d 37 (1958), where Mr. Justice Harlan, as
Circuit Justice, was asked to stay an order committing applicants to jail for contumacious refusal to answer certain questions. He denied the applications "for lack of jurisdiction,
3 Nelson v. United States, 201 U. S. 92, 97-98 (1906); Bessette v. W. B.
Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 337-338 (1904); United States v. Reynolds,
449 F. 2d 1347 (CA9 1971); In 're Vericker, 446 F. 2d 244 (CA2
1971); In re Manufacturers Trading Corp., 194 F. 2d 948, 955 (CA6
1952); see Doyle v. London Guarantee Co., 204 U. S. 599, 605 (1907); cf.
Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33 (1941); Fox v. Capital Co., 299 U. S.
105, 107 (1936); Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117, 121 (1906).
See generally 9 J. Moore, Federal Practice 110.13 [4], p. 166 (1975).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

and, in any event, in the exercise of my discretion," saying
among other things:
CC*. The federal questions sought to be presented going to the validity of these commitments are prematurely
raised here, since none of them has yet been passed upon
by the highest court of the State in which review could
be had. See 28 U. S. C. § 1257.... The appeals of petitioners Valenti, Riccobono, Mancuso and Castellano are
still pending undetermined in the state Appellate Division. The direct appeal of petitioner Miranda to the
state Court of Appeals also stands undetermined." Id.,
at 8, 3 L. Ed. 2d, at 39.
The rule would appear to be, as Mr. Justice Goldberg observed: "Of course, no stay should be granted pending an
appeal which would not lie." Rosenblatt v. American Cyanamid Co., 86 S. Ct. 1, 3, 15 L. Ed. 2d 39, 42 (1965) (in
chambers).
Applicants insist, however, that the refusal to stay the civil
contempt judgments brings the case within 28 U. S. C. §§ 1257
and 2101 (f) because (1) if the applicants comply with the
order, they forfeit the very First Amendment right which they
claim, that is, the right to refuse to turn over to a court what
they consider to be the confidential files of the reporter, at
least until the court demanding them has provided further
justification for its order than it has to this date; and (2) if
applicants do not comply, they will suffer continuing and
irreparable penalties for exercising their claimed First Amendment rights.
Applicants are not without some support for their position.
In Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S. 1327 (1975)
(BLACKMUN, J., in chambers), a state trial court had entered
an order prohibiting the publication of certain information
about a pending criminal case. The order was not stayed
pending appeal to the Nebraska Supreme Court. After initi-

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1317

Opinion in Chambers

ally refusing a stay, 423 U. S. 1319 (1975), MR. JUSTICE
BLACKMUN concluded that the delay in the Nebraska courts
"exceed[ed] tolerable limits" and entered a partial stay. He
recognized that in a meaningful sense "the lower court's judgment is not one of the State's highest court, nor is its decision
the final one in the matter," 423 U. S., at 1329; but he reasoned that a partial stay should be entered anyway:
"Where, however, a direct prior restraint is imposed upon
the reporting of news by the media, each passing day may
constitute a separate and cognizable infringement of the
First Amendment. The suppressed information grows
older. Other events crowd upon it. To this extent,
any First Amendment infringement that occurs with each
passing day is irreparable. By deferring action until
November 25, and possibly later, the Supreme Court
of Nebraska has decided, and, so far as the intervening
days are concerned, has finally decided, that this restraint
on the media will persist. In this sense, delay itself is
a final decision. I need not now hold that in any area
outside that of prior restraint on the press, such delay
would warrant a stay or even be a violation of federal
rights. Yet neither can I accept that this Court, or any
individual Justice thereof, is powerless to act upon the
failure of a State's highest court to lift what appears to
be, at least in part, an unconstitutional restraint of the
press. When a reasonable time in which to review the
restraint has passed, as here, we may properly regard the
state court as having finally decided that the restraint
should remain in effect during the period of delay. I
therefore conclude that I have jurisdiction to act upon
that state-court decision." Id., at 1329-1330.
It should also be noted that the Court later found it unnecessary to decide whether the stay had been properly entered,
Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S. 1010 (1975), but

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

that in deciding the merits of the controversy, the Court

referred to MR.

JUSTICE BLACKMTN'S

"careful decision" with

respect to the stay issue, Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 427
U. S. 539, 544 n. 2 (1976).
Of course, MR. JUSTICE BLACKMJN partially stayed an
order imposing a prior restraint upon the press, and this is
not a prior-restraint case. Farber has been jailed and the
company has been fined until they comply with the court's
order, but it is doubtful, to say the least, that a state court's
refusal to grant bail or to stay a criminal judgment pending
appeal in the state courts automatically transforms the judgment into a case reviewable here on the merits and hence
subject to a stay order under § 2101 (f) by the Court or by
an individual Justice. I am nevertheless inclined to think
that the question of our jurisdiction is not frivolous and is
sufficiently substantial that the Court and an individual
Justice necessarily have power to issue a stay pending a final
determination of the jurisdictional issue-and should enter
such a stay if there are otherwise adequate grounds for doing so.
Proceeding on this basis, then, I conclude that the application for stay should be denied. There is no present authority
in this Court either that newsmen are constitutionally privileged to withhold duly subpoenaed documents material to the
prosecution or defense of a criminal case or that a defendant
seeking the subpoena must show extraordinary circumstances
before enforcement against newsmen will be had. Cf. Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665 (1972); see Zurcher v. Stanford
Daily, 436 U. S. 547, 566-567 (1978). But even if four or more
Members of the Court would hold that a reporter's obligation
to comply with the subpoena is subject to some special showing of materiality not applicable in the case of ordinary thirdparty witnesses, I would not think that they would accept
review of this case at this time. The order at issue directs
submission of the documents and other materials for only an

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1317

Opinion in Chambers

in camera inspection; it anticipates a full hearing on all issues
of federal and state law; and it is based on the trial court's
evident views that the documents sought are sufficiently material to warrant at least an in camera inspection.
In United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683 (1974), we recognized a constitutionally based privilege protecting Presidential
communications in the exercise of Art. II powers, but we held
that there had been a sufficient initial showing of materiality
to warrant requiring the President to submit the subpoenaed
documents for in camera examination. Here, the Superior
Court has twice issued a certificate under the Uniform Act to
Secure the Attendance of Witnesses from Without a State in
Criminal Proceedings, N. J. Stat. Ann. §§ 2A:81-18 to 2A:8123 (West 1976), declaring that the documents sought "are
necessary and material" for the defendant on trial for murder
in the New Jersey courts. In the first certificate the court
declared that the materials sought
"contain statements, pictures, memoranda, recordings and
notes of interviews of witnesses for the defense and prosecution in the above proceeding as well as information
delivered to the Bergen County Prosecutor's Office, and
contractual information relating to the above. Specifically, the documents include a statement given to Mr.
Farber by Lee Henderson of Whitmere, South Carolina
and other witnesses and notes, memoranda, recordings,
pictures and other writings in the possession, custody or
control of The New York Times and/or Myron Farber."
On the second occasion, the court certified:
".*. That I have reviewed the petition of Raymond A.
Brown and find, inter alia, that substantial constitutional
rights of Dr. Jascalevich to a fair trial, compulsory process
and due process of law are in jeopardy without the appearance of Myron Farber and the documents so that an
in camera examination can be made.

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

That this certificate is made with the full awareness of the totality of the proceeding before the Courtpre-trial, in the presence of the jury and outside the
presence of the jury-which are hereby referenced. These
include the testimony of: Myron Farber, Dr. Baden, Mr.
Herman Fuhr, Judge Galda, Judge Calissi, Mr. Herman
Fuhr [sic], Mr. John Fischer, Detective Lange, Mr.
Joseph Woodcock, and the proceedings regarding Myron
Farber and the New York Times."
These determinations were made by a trial judge after
sitting through some 22 weeks of a criminal trial and based,
among other grounds, on a defendant's right to call witnesses
for his defense, which includes the right to secure witnesses
and materials for the purpose of impeaching the witnesses
against him. Cf. Davis v. Alaska, 415 U. S. 308 (1974).
Furthermore, these conclusions have not been disturbed by
the New Jersey appellate courts, each of which has refused
to stay the order for in camera inspection as well as the ensuing civil contempt judgments. In my view, the proceedings
to date satisfy whatever preconditions to the enforcement of
the subpoena that may be applicable in this case.
On this record, I would not vote to grant certiorari and am
unconvinced that four other Justices would do so. It also
appears to me, as it did on the earlier application for stay,
that in camera inspection of these documents by the court will
not result in any irreparable injury to applicants' claimed,
but unadjudicated, rights that would warrant staying the enforcement of the subpoena at this time, with its consequent
impact on a state criminal trial. It should also be noted that
applicants' resistance to the subpoena and the order rest on
state law as well as federal grounds; that the Superior Court
deems inspection necessary to inspect the documents in connection with ruling on the state claims including the claim of
protection under the state "Shield" statute; and that if applicants prevail on those grounds, it will be unnecessary to deal

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1317

1325

Opinion in Chambers

with whatever federal constitutional grounds might also be
urged.
For these reasons, I decline to grant the application for stay
pending the filing of a petition for certiorari, and the temporary stay I have entered will expire at 12 noon tomorrow,
August 2, 1978.

