DOLMAN v. UNITED STATES

1395

Opinion in Chambers

DOLMAN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-534 (78-987).

Decided December 21, 1978

Application to stay Court of Appeals' judgment and mandate affirming
applicants' criminal contempt convictions for violating District Court's
injunction is denied. The Court of Appeals apparently has granted a
stay with respect to other individuals who were convicted of criminal
contempt for violation of the same injunction; it is uncertain whether
applicants have sought a stay from the Court of Appeals pending this
Court's disposition of their petition for certiorari; and this Court has
granted certiorari in a related case in which applicants' asserted basis for
a stay will be reviewed. Accordingly, it is the better exercise of discretion to require applicants to apply to the Court of Appeals for a stay
pending this Court's disposition of their petition for certiorari.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants Dolman and Wilson were convicted of criminal
contempt of court pursuant to 18 U. S. C. ยง 401 (3) for violation of an injunction entered by the United States District
Court for the Western District of Washington. Their convictions were affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit on September 7, 1978, and their application to stay
issuance of the mandate of the Court of Appeals pending
determination by this Court of related petitions for certiorari
pending-before it was denied on November 16. Meanwhile,
this Court granted certiorari on October 16 in No. 78-139,
Puget Sound Gillnetters Assn. v. United States District Court,
and No. 78-119, Washington v. United States, 439 U. S. 909.
There is no question, as the Government maintains in the
response which I have requested, that a conviction for criminal contempt may be valid quite apart from the validity of
the underlying injunction which was violated, and that the
invalidity of an injunction may not ordinarily be raised as a
defense in contempt proceedings for its violation. Walker v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

Birmingham, 388 U. S. 307, 315-320 (1967); United States v.
Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 293-294 (1947).
Applicants' basic contention here is that since they were not
named as parties in the action in the District Court in which
the United States was plaintiff and the State of Washington
defendant, they were not bound by any injunctive decree
which was issued by that court. The District Court rejected
this contention, and the Court of Appeals affirmed the convictions for criminal contempt relying upon cases from this
Court holding that in some circumstances citizens of a State
who claim rights pursuant to state law may be deemed "in
privity" with a State and be bound by an injunction or decree
to which only the State was a party. Tacoma v. Taxpayers
of Tacoma, 357 U. S. 320, 340-341 (1958); Wyoming v. Colorado, 286 U. S. 494, 506-509 (1932).
One of the questions presented in No. 78-139 is this:
"Is an individual who conducts business in a state in
such privity to that state that a court may directly
enjoin the citizen without his being a party to or a participant in the cause of action in which the State is a
party? Assuming privity, if an injunctive order is sought
against an individual, is that individual entitled to notice
of and participation in the injunctive hearing prior to its
issuance?"
The Government in its response to this application simply
does not address that question, and the fact that certiorari
has been granted in No. 78-139 suggests that at least some
Members of the Court regard the question as being of
substance.
Both Walker, supra, and Mine Workers, supra, contain
language limiting the doctrine that the validity of a conviction for criminal contempt is not vitiated by the invalidity of the underlying injunction to cases in which the court
issuing the injunction had jurisdiction of the parties. In

DOLMAN v. UNITED STATES
1395

Opinion in Chambers

Walker, the court quoted approvingly the following language
from Howat v. Kansas, 258 U. S. 181, 189-190 (1922):
"An injunction duly issuing out of a court of general
jurisdiction with equity powers upon pleadings properly
invoking its action, and served upon persons made parties
therein and within the jurisdiction, must be obeyed by
them however erroneous the action of the court may
be . .. ." 388 U. S., at 314. (Emphasis supplied.)
See also Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 65 (d). The claim made by
these applicants is that they were not in fact parties to the
proceedings in the District Court, and that the District Court
did not have jurisdiction over them merely because the State
of Washington was a party. Since this question will be
reviewed in No. 78-139, and since there is some possibility
that applicants' convictions for criminal contempt would be
moot once having been served, even under cases such as
Sibron v. New York, 392 U. S. 40 (1968), I think there are
substantial arguments which favor the granting of a stay in
this case.
Nonetheless, I have decided as of now to deny the application. The information available to me as to related proceedings in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit may not
be completely accurate, but I am advised that that court
granted a stay at the request of Denne M. Harrington and
Gary D. Rondeau, whose appeals from convictions for criminal
contempt for violation of the same injunction were consolidated with those of applicants in the Court of Appeals and
decided by that court in the same opinion. While applicants
did seek a stay from the Court of Appeals of its affirmance of
their contempt convictions, it is not apparent from the information available to me that they did so after this Court
granted certiorari in No. 78-139, or that they requested the
stay pending disposition of a petition for certiorari in their
own cases, rather than pending disposition of No. 78-139. Our
Rule 27 provides that applications for a stay here will not

1398

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

normally be entertained unless application for a stay has first
been made to a judge of the court rendering the decision
sought to be reviewed. On the basis of the information before
me, I cannot say that applicants have requested a stay from
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit pending disposition by this Court of their petition for certiorari seeking to
review the afirmance of their contempt convictions, though I
cannot say with certainty that they have not. Because of
this uncertainty on my part, because of our grant of certiorari
in No. 78-139, and because the Court of Appeals apparently
has granted a stay with respect to Harrington and Rondeau,
I think it the better exercise of my discretion to require applicants to apply to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
for a stay pending this Court's disposition of their petition for
certiorari. In the event that such an application is denied, I
shall entertain a renewed application for a stay on behalf of
applicants Dolman and Wilson.
Denied.

