1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

FARE, ACTING CHIEF PROBATION OFFICER v.
MICHAEL C.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-33.

Decided July 28, 1978

Application to stay, pending the filing of a petition for certiorari, California
Supreme Court's judgment ordering a rehearing in the trial court for
respondent juvenile on the ground that a confession obtained after
respondent had requested his probation officer's presence and relied on
by the trial court in finding respondent guilty of murder was inadmissible under Mirandav. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, is granted. The order in
question was predicated on federal, not state, grounds; the balance of
equities favors applicant; and it is likely that four Justices of this Court
will vote to grant certiorari.
See: 21 Cal. 3d 471, 579 P. 2d 7.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant requests a stay of enforcement of a judgment of
the California Supreme Court ordering a rehearing for respondent under Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code Ann. § 602 (West
Supp. 1978). The Superior Court of Los Angeles County
had originally committed respondent to the California Youth
Authority as a ward of the court after finding that he was
guilty of murder. That committal was affirmed by the California Court of Appeal. On May 30, 1978, the California
Supreme Court reversed, holding that a confession relied on
by the Superior Court was inadmissible under Miranda v.
Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966). In re Michael C., 21 Cal. 3d
471, 579 P. 2d 7. It ruled that when a juvenile, during the
course of a custodial interrogation, requests the presence of
his probation officer, all interrogation must cease and any
statement taken after that point is inadmissible at the adjudication hearing. I have decided to grant the stay so that
the full Court can consider the applicant's petition for certiorari and the important Miranda questions that underlie it.

FARE v. MICHAEL C.
1310

Opinion in Chambers

Three pertinent inquiries are usually made in evaluating a
request for stay of enforcement of an order of a state court:
whether that order is predicated on federal as opposed to state
grounds; whether the "balance of equities" militates in favor
of the relief requested by applicant; and whether it is likely
that four Justices of this Court will vote to grant certiorari.
Recognizing that the case for a stay is a relatively close one, I
conclude that each of these questions must be answered in
the affirmative.
The decision of the California Supreme Court is clearly
premised on the Federal Constitution. It is posited as an
extrapolation of Miranda and there are no references to state
statutory or constitutional grounds. The California Supreme
Court cases relied on were also efforts to determine the implications of Miranda and did not purport to construe the State
Constitution. See People v. Burton, 6 Cal. 3d 375, 491 P. 2d
793 (1971); People v. Randall, 1 Cal. 3d 948, 464 P. 2d 114
(1970).
The "balance of equities" presents a more difficult question.
Applicant argues that a stay is imperative, because a rehearing in Superior Court would preclude this Court's review of
the California Supreme Court's decision. If on retrial the
respondent is committed to the Youth Authority on the basis
of evidence other than the confession, the instant controversy
will be moot.* On the other hand, should the Superior Court
find the remaining evidence insufficient to order a committal,
this prosecution would terminate and any effort by the State
to appeal such a determination would be bound to raise serious
if not insuperable difficulties under both California law and
the Double Jeopardy Clause. See Mirandav. Arizona, supra,
at 497-499, and n. 71.
*The California Court of Appeal suggested that if the confession were
suppressed, there would be insufficient evidence in the record to sustain a
finding of guilt. In re Michael C., 21 Cal. 3d 471, 481 n. 2, 579 P. 2d 7,
13 n. 2 (1978) (Clark, J., dissenting).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

The law enforcement efforts of the State of California will
be substantially affected by the California Supreme Court's
decision. The ruling builds upon the Miranda prescription
that "[ilf the individual states that he wants an attorney, the
interrogation must cease until an attorney is present," 384
U. S., at 474; but it goes well beyond the express language
of the Miranda decision. For example, the Supreme Court of
California said in the course of its opinion here:
"Michael wanted and needed the advice of someone whom
he knew and trusted. He therefore asked for his probation officer-a personal advisor who would understand
his problems and needs and on whose advice the minor
could rely. By analogy to [People v. Burton, 6 Cal. 3d
375, 491 P. 2d 793 (1971)], we hold that the minor's
request for his probation officer--essentially a 'call for
help'-indicated that the minor intended to assert his
Fifth Amendment privilege. By so holding, we recognize
the role of the probation officer as a trusted guardian
figure who exercises the authority of the state as parens
patriae and whose duty it is to implement the protective
and rehabilitative powers of the juvenile court.
"Here ...we face conduct which, regardless of considerations of capacity, coercion or voluntariness, per se invokes
the privilege against self-incrimination. Thus our question turns not on whether the defendant had the ability,
capacity or willingness to give a knowledgeable waiver,
and hence whether he acted voluntarily, but whether,
when he called for his probation officer, he exercised his
Fifth Amendment privilege. We hold that in doing so
he no less invoked the protection against self-incrimination than if he asked for the presence of an attorney."
21 Cal. 3d, at 476-477, 570 P. 2d, at 10-11.
The court explicitly eschewed a "totality of circumstances"
analysis; respondent's waiver of his Mirandarights, his experi-

FARE v. MICHAEL C.
1310

1313

Opinion in Chambers

ence in custodial settings, or any other factor that might bear
on the voluntariness of his confession was simply irrelevant.
Although the California Supreme Court made some effort
to limit its holding to probation officers, it is unclear what
types of requests authorities must now regard as per se invocations of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment privilege
against self-incrimination. Many relationships could be characterized as ones of trust and understanding; indeed, it seems
to me that many of these would come to mind long before
the probationer-probation officer relationship. In fact, under
California law the probation officer is charged with the duty
to file charges against a minor if he has any knowledge of an
offense. Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code Ann. §§ 650, 652-655 (West
Supp. 1978). Certainly that also encompasses a duty of reasonable investigation. It would be a breach of that duty for
the probation officer to withhold information regarding an
offense or advise a probationer that he should not cooperate
with the police. These considerations troubled Justice Mosk,
who noted in his separate concurrence in this case that
"[w]here a conflict between the minor and the law arises, the
probation officer can be neither neutral nor in the minor's
corner." 21 Cal. 3d, at 479, 579 P. 2d, at 12. To treat a
request for the presence of an enforcement officer as a per se
invocation of the right to remain silent cannot but create
serious confusion as to where the line is to be drawn in other
custodial settings.
Respondent asserts that this injury is outweighed by the
fact that a stay delays ultimate disposition of the charges
against him, and that he has been in the custody of the Youth
Authority for over two years. Obviously the weight of this
argument depends on one's view of the merits. If certiorari
is granted in this case and a majority of this Court finds
respondent's confession admissible as a matter of federal constitutional law, then the original disposition order will not be
disturbed and detention during deliberations in this Court will
not exceed the time set in the original order.

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

Ultimately, therefore, my decision to stay enforcement of
the California Supreme Court's order must rest on my assessment of the likelihood that four Justices will vote to grant
certiorari and that the applicant will prevail on the merits.
This Court is tendered many opportunities by unsuccessful
prosecutors and unsuccessful defendants to review rulings
predicated on Miranda and related cases, and, as with many
issues that recur in petitions before this Court, we decline most
such tenders. But some pattern has developed in the handling
of Miranda issues that, I think, portends a substantial likelihood of success for the instant petition.
Miranda v. Arizona was decided by a closely divided Court
in 1966. While the rigidity of the prophylactic rules was a
principal weakness in the view of dissenters and critics outside
the Court, its supporters saw that rigidity as the strength
of the decision. It afforded police and courts clear guidance
on the manner in which to conduct a custodial investigation:
if it was rigid, it was also precise. But this core virtue of
Miranda would be eviscerated if the prophylactic rules were
freely augmented by other courts under the guise of "interpreting" Miranda, particularly if their decisions evinced no
principled limitations. Sensitive to this tension, and to the
substantial burden which the original Miranda rules have
placed on local law enforcement efforts, this Court has been
consistently reluctant to extend Miranda or to extend in any
way its strictures on law enforcement agencies. I think this
reluctance is shown by our decisions reviewing state-court
interpretations of Miranda. As we noted in Oregon v. Hass,
420 U. S. 714, 719 (1975), "a State may not impose . . .
greater [Miranda] restrictions as a matter of federal constitutional law when this Court specifically refrains from imposing
them." (Emphasis in original.)
In Michigan v. Tucker, 417 U. S. 433 (1974), we overturned
a federal habeas ruling that all evidence proving to be the
fruit of statements made without full Miranda warnings must

FARE v. MICHAEL C.
1310

1315

Opinion in Chambers

be excluded at the subsequent state criminal trial. We overruled a State Supreme Court in Oregon v. Hass, supra;we held
that a statement was admissible for purposes of impeachment
even though it was given after the defendant indicated a
desire to telephone an attorney. This Court has also recently
rejected contentions that a confession was inadmissible after
a reiterated Mirandawarning if some hours earlier the defendant had indicated he did not want to discuss a different charge.
Michigan v. Mosley, 423 U. S. 96 (1975). These are not to
suggest that refusals to extend Miranda always please prosecutors, see Brown v. Illinois, 422 U. S. 590 (1975), or that this
Court has shunned all logical developments of that opinion,
see Doyle v. Ohio, 426 U. S. 610 (1976). But the overall
thrust of these cases represents an effort to contain Miranda
to the express terms and logic of the original opinion.
In our most recent pronouncement on the scope of Miranda,
we found that the Oregon Supreme Court's expansive definition of "custodial interrogation" read Miranda too broadly.
Oregon v. M1fathiason, 429 U. S. 492 (1977). Our reason for so
ruling is probably best encapsulated in an observation we made
in a similar context: "[Sluch an extension of the Miranda
requirements would cut this Court's holding in that case completely loose from its own explicitly stated rationale." Beckwith v. United States, 425 U. S. 341, 345 (1976). 1 think the
decision of the California Supreme Court also risks cutting
Mirandaloose from its doctrinal moorings. The special status
given legal counsel in Miranda's prophylactic rules is related
to the traditional role of an attorney as expositor of legal
rights and their proper invocation. He is also the principal
bulwark between the individual and the state prosecutorial
and adjudicative system. A probation officer simply does not
have the same relationship to the accused and to the system
that confronts the accused, and I believe this fact would
lead four Justices of this Court to grant the State's petition
for certiorari in this case.

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

The request for stay of the judgment of the California
Supreme Court pending consideration of a timely petition for
certiorari by the applicant is accordingly granted, to remain
in effect until disposition of the petition for certiorari. If the
petition is granted, this stay is to remain in effect until this
Court decides the case or until this Court otherwise orders.

