OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

MIROYAN v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-99.

Decided August 8, 1978"

Applications to stay, pending the filing and disposition of a petition for
certiorari, Court of Appeals' mandate issued upon affirming applicants'
drug convictions against the contention that evidence obtained through
the use of a "beeper" attached to an airplane used by applicants to
import marihuana into the country violated applicants' rights under the
Search and Seizure Clause of the Fourth Amendment is denied, where
it appears unlikely that four Justices of this Court would vote to grant
certiorari.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants McGinnis and Miroyan seek a stay of the mandate of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit pending both the filing of a petition for a writ of
certiorari and this Court's final disposition of their case.
Their convictions for several drug-related offenses were secured largely on evidence obtained through the use of an
electronic tracking device, or "beeper," attached to an airplane
used by applicants to import several hundred pounds of Mexican marihuana into this country. Applicants maintain that
the Government's installation and use of the beeper violated
their rights under the Search and Seizure Clause of the Fourth
Amendment and that the decision of the Ninth Circuit conflicts with decisions of other Courts of Appeals. Twice within
the last year this Court has declined to review similar Fourth
Amendment claims in strikingly similar cases. Houlihan v.
State, 551 S. W. 2d 719 (Tex. Crim. App.), cert. denied,
434 U. S. 955 (1977); United States v. Abel, 548 F. 2d 591
(CA5), cert. denied, 431 U. S. 956 (1977). This fact
leads me to conclude that unless applicants can demonstrate
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

*Together with No. A-87, McGinnis v. United States, also on application
for stay of the same mandate.

TIROYAN v. UNITED STATES
133S

1339

Opinion in Chambers

a conflict among the Courts of Appeals of which this Court
was unaware at the time of the previous denials of certiorari,
or which has developed since then, applicants' petition for
certiorari will not command the four votes necessary for the
granting of the writ in their case. While there is undoubtedly
a difference of approach between the Circuits on the question,
I am not sure that there is a square conflict, and I am even
less sure that the granting of certiorari in this case would
result in the resolution of any conflict which does exist. I
think it quite doubtful that applicants' petition for certiorari
will be granted and have accordingly decided to deny the
application for a stay.
Miroyan arranged with Aero Trends, Inc., of San Jose, Cal.,
to rent a Cessna aircraft for one week. On the day before the
beginning of the rental period, pursuant to a United States
Magistrate's order and with the aircraft owner's express permission, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) agents
installed a beeper in the aircraft. Miroyan and McGinnis
then departed in the rented airplane and journeyed to Ciudad
Obregon in the Republic of Mexico. Following in a United
States Customs aircraft, federal agents monitored applicants'
trip into Mexico by means of the beeper's signals and visual
sightings. On May 11 Customs personnel in Phoenix, Ariz.,
picked up the beeper's signals and determined that the aircraft was returning to the United States. Federal agents
again took to the air and tracked the aircraft's progress to
Lompoc, Cal., where McGinnis deplaned and checked into a
Lompoc motel. Miroyan flew on to nearby Santa Ynez airport and was arrested while transferring several hundred
pounds of marihuana from the airplane to a pickup truck.
McGinnis was arrested at his motel room in Lompoc. Both
men were separately tried and convicted of conspiracy to
possess a controlled substance with intent to distribute, importation of a controlled substance, and possession of a controlled substance with intent to distribute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

Applicants appealed their convictions to the Ninth Circuit,
urging, inter alia, that the District Court had erred in refusing
to suppress the marihuana and other evidence obtained as a
result of the use of the beeper. In essence, applicants argued
that the installation of the beeper and the monitoring of its
signals constituted a search or searches within the meaning of
the Fourth Amendment. Because the installation of the
beeper had been authorized by a federal Magistrate, applicants focused their attack on the sufficiency of the affidavit
upon which the Magistrate's order had been predicated. The
Ninth Circuit examined the Fourth Amendment implications
of both the installation of the beeper and the monitoring of
its signals. Finding no distinction between visual surveillance
and surveillance accomplished through the use of an electronic tracking device, the court held that the mere use of the
beeper to monitor the location of the aircraft as it passed
through public airspace did not infringe upon any reasonable
expectation of privacy and therefore did not constitute a
search subject to the warrant requirement of the Fourth
Amendment. It went on to hold that the installation of the
device, having been performed with the owner's express consent and prior to the beginning of the rental period, did not
violate applicants' Fourth Amendment rights. The court,
having found neither search nor seizure, did not reach the
question concerning the sufficiency of the affidavit.
Both the decision in this case and the decisions with which
applicants claim it is in conflict used Katz v. United States,
389 U. S. 347 (1967), as their point of departure. There this
Court held that "[t]he Government's activities in electronically listening to and recording the petitioner's [telephone
conversation] violated the privacy upon which he justifiably
relied while using the telephone booth and thus constituted a
'search and seizure' within the meaning of the Fourth
Amendment." Id., at 353.
In other cases in which enterprises similar to applicants'

MIROYAN v. UNITED STATES
1338

1341

Opinion in Chambers

have been frustrated with the aid of electronic tracking
devices, defendants have frequently cited Katz for the proposition that installation and use of the devices are searches subject to the strictures of the Fourth Amendment. In support
of their contention that the Ninth Circuit's position on this
question is at odds with that of other Circuits, applicants
point to United States v. Moore, 562 F. 2d 106 (CAI 1977)
and United States v. Holmes, 521 F. 2d 859 (CA5 1975).
In Moore DEA agents, without the benefit of a warrant or
the owner's consent, surreptitiously attached beepers onto two
vehicles parked by defendants in a shopping center parking
lot. As the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit framed
the issue: "The basic question [was] whether the use of beepers so implanted to monitor the movements of the U-Haul
van and the 1966 Mustang . . . violated defendants' rea-

sonable expectations of privacy." United States v. Moore,
supra, at 112. That court answered the question affirmatively, but reasoned that the lessened expectation of privacy
associated with motor vehicles justifies the installation and
use of beepers without a warrant so long as the officers installing and using the device have probable cause. Finding
the electronic surveillance in that case supported by probable
cause to believe that defendants planned to manufacture a
controlled substance, the court held that use of the beepers
did not violate defendants' Fourth Amendment rights.
In Holmes Government agents attached a beeper to defendant's van while defendant was in a nearby lounge negotiating
with an undercover agent for the sale of 300 pounds of marihuana. The tracking device ultimately led to the seizure of
over a ton of marihuana. In affirming the District Court's
order suppressing all evidence obtained through the use of the
beeper, a panel of the Fifth Circuit held that installation of
the beeper constituted a search within the Fourth Amendment
and that Government agents "had no right to attach the
beacon without consent or judicial authorization." United

1342

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

States v. Holmes, supra, at 865. An evenly divided en bane
court affirmed the panel's decision. 537 F. 2d 227 (1976).
Both Moore and Holmes are plainly different from this case
with respect to one important fact: the beeper leading to
the arrest of McGinnis and Miroyan was installed on their
rented airplane with the owner's express consent before possession of the aircraft passed to applicants. Equally plainly,
the Fourth Amendment analysis employed by the Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit differs from that employed by
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this case. I do
not think that the same can be said with respect to the Fifth
and Ninth Circuits: Holmes was ultimately an affirmance of the
District Court by an equally divided Court of Appeals on
rehearing en bane; and, indeed, on two separate occasions
since Holmes, the Fifth Circuit has rejected Fourth Amendment claims on facts virtually identical to those of the instant case on the ground that the owner-authorized installation of beepers on the airplanes there involved came within
the third-party-consent exception to. the warrant requirement.
See United States v. Cheshire, 569 F. 2d 887 (1978); United
States v. Abel, 548 F. 2d 591, cert. denied, 431 U. S. 956
(1977).
The question, then, it seems to me, boils down to how
significant the difference between the approaches of the First
and Ninth Circuits is. Assuming that it is sufficiently significant to ultimately lead this Court to grant certiorari to
resolve the difference, is the Court likely to do so in this
case? I think that in all probability this Court may eventually feel bound to decide whether Government agencies
must have probable cause to install tracking devices on
motor vehicles or in articles subsequently used in a criminal
enterprise when the installation is expressly authorized by
the owner of the vehicle or article. Such a decision could
require a choice between the Ninth Circuit's view that
the operator of an airplane has no legitimate expectation of

MIROYAN v. UNITED STATES
1338

Opinion in Chambers

privacy which would prevent observation of the plane's movement through the public airspace, and the First Circuit's view
that the operator of a vehicle does have an expectation "not
to be carrying around an uninvited device that continuously
signals his presence." United States v. Moore, supra, at 112.
Or conceivably this Court could choose to adopt the thirdparty-consent ruling of the Fifth Circuit. See United States
v. Cheshire, supra.
But because the question is an important and recurring one,
the Court is apt to feel that the case taken under consideration
should pose the issue as clearly as possible. Having within
the past year denied certiorari in two cases strikingly similar
to applicants', the Court is not likely to grant certiorari in
this case unless such an action would appear to offer the strong
likelihood of deciding an issue on which a square conflict exists.
I simply cannot tell from the applicants' motion papers or
from the opinion of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit whether the District Court made any finding on the
existence of probable cause, or whether the applicants' arguments to that court went to a lack of probable cause as well
as to the insufficiency of the affidavit in support of the warrant.
If upon review of the applicants' petition for certiorari and
the Government's response thereto, it appears that there was
in fact probable cause to justify installation of the beeper in
this case, it seems to me very likely that this Court would
hesitate to grant certiorari to decide the abstract proposition
of whether probable cause is in fact required.
This latter factor also bears to some extent on applicants'
claim of irreparable injury should a stay not be granted.
That claim is the customary one that should a stay be denied,
but certiorari be granted and the position of the First Circuit
be adopted as the law by this Court, they will have served
time in prison under a judgment of conviction which will
eventually be reversed. But on the papers before me, I think
that even under their most favorable hypothesis, the most

1344

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

applicants could expect is a remand to the Ninth Circuit for
consideration by that court or by the District Court of whether
there was probable cause. And if that question was resolved
adversely to the applicants, there is no reason to think that
their judgments of conviction would not again be affirmed by
the Ninth Circuit.
Accordingly, applicants' motions to stay the mandate of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit are
denied.

