Dec. 1864.]

BADGER

o.

BADGER.

Statement of the case.

interview, and that he knew that Lake was the othe'r partner
in the firm of Martin & Co., we look upon it as remarkable;
pointing clearly to one conclusion, namely, a determination
to keep from Martin all the funds of the concern, and all
information of its condition, in order that he might perform
the operation of buying Martin's interest at a sacrifice.
We are of opinion, from a careful examination of the testimony, that Brooks occupied towards Martin a relation of
confidence and trust, being his partner, his agent, and his
brother-in-law, and having also entire control of the partnership business; that he took advantage of this position to
conceal from Martin the prosperous condition of the concern, and purchased from him his interest, for a price totally
disproportioned to its real value; and that, under such circumstances, it is the unquestionable duty of a court of chancery to set aside the contract of sale.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

Mr. Justice CATRON dissented briefly; on the grouna
that the partnership, having been formed for the purpose
of speculating in soldi~rs' claims to warrants, the original
transaction was a fraud upon the act of Congress; violating
public policy; and that in such a case equity does not interfere.
BADGER v. BADGER.
Courts of equity, acting on their own inherent doctrine of discouraging,
for the peace of society, antiquated demands, refuse to interfere in
attempts to establish a stale trust, except where,
1. The trust is clearly established.
2. The facts have been fraudulently and successfully concealed by the
trustee from the knowledge of the cestui que trust.
And in cases for relief, the cestui que trusl should set forth in his bill, specifically, what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution of his
claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of his rights, and the means
used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance, and
how aad when he first came to a knowledge of his rights.
BADGER died in 1818, leaving a widow and ten children,
one of whom only was of age at that time; the others being

BADGER V. BADGER.

[Sup. Cf-

Statement of the case.

minors, of different ages. One of them came of age in 1824;
another in 1828; a third in 1831; a fourth in 1834; a fifth
in 1835; a sixth in 1837. The eldest son, Daniel Badger,
took administration on the estate in 1819, an uncle being
joined with him; and soon after filed an inventory of the
estate, its debts, and liabilities. In 1820, having settled one
administration account, the administrators obtained leave
from the court to sell certain portions of the real estate.
None of these proceedings were the subject of question.
In 1827, they filed a further account, which had indorsed
upon it what purported to be the written approval of the
widow and heirs, the latter acting by their guardians. By
this account they claimed credit for several thousand dollars,
alleged to have been advanced for the estate, and in 1830
got leave from court to sell as much real estate as would pay
this balance. Public sale of the real estate was accordingly
made; when it was bought by a friend of Daniel Badger,
the administrator, and soon afterwards conveyed to him.
The widow died in 1855, aged 74.
In 1858, James Badger, a son and heir, whose age did not
appear, further than from the fact of the father's death in
1819,-and one of the persons who by his guardian,now dead,
had approved of the account of 1827,-filed a bill against his
brother Daniel,-administrator, as aforesaid,-in the Circuit
Court for the Massachusetts District, charging that the
account of 1827 was false and" fraudulent; that the real
estate lad been sold beneath its value, and bought in for
his said brother, the administrator; that before this purchase he had silenced the objections of some of the heirs
who opposed the sale by purchasing their shares; and had
forged, or fraudulently procured the signature of the widow,
his mother; and in this way had obtained license from the
-ourt to sell. The bill alleged, that "the fraudulent acts
and doings of the said Daniel were unknown to the complainant and his coheirs, until within five years last past,"
and prayed an account, &c.
The answer of Daniel Badger, the defendant, denied the
allegations of ihe bill generally; and, on the last point, de-

Dec. 1864.]

BADGER V.

BADGER.

Argument for the complainant in error.

nied "that the complainant, or any of the said heirs-at-law
of said intestate, did not have personal knowledge of all
acts and doings of said Daniel (the administrator), in reference to the sale and purchase of these estates until within
five years."
There was much testimony from different members of the
family; the charges of the bill being more or less supported
by the evidence of heirs who had sold out what rights they
had to James Badger, the complainant below. Some of the
witnesses testified that Daniel, the deffndant, who bore his
father's name exactly, had often declared that, being the
oldest son and bearing the paternal name, he was entitled
to all the property. One of the witnesses was a daughter,
born in 1807.
The court below dismissed the bill as being stale. On
appeal the question was, whether this was rightly done?
Mr. .obb, for the complainant in error: We are entitled to
the relief prayed. for, unless we have lost our rights by the
lapse of time, or the statutes of limitations, or are otherwise
estopped from asserting them.
It may be true that courts of equity consider themselves
bound by the statutes of limitations, which govern courts
of law in like cases; and in many other cases they act upon
the analogy of the limitations at law, as where a legal title
would in ejectment be barred by twenty years' adverse possession; courts of equity will act upon the like limitations,
and apply it to all cases of relief sought upon equitable titles
or claims touching real estates. These, as abstract propositions, we do not controvert. But they do not furnish any
ground for refusing the relief prayed for in this bill. If the
defendants invoke the protection of this abstract principle,
they must clearly bring themselves within it. It is not for
the plaintiff to show that he is not barred by the statute, but
for the defendants to show that he is; they must make it
appear by a proper plea and proof, that they are entitled to
the benefit of the limitation. It will be said that more than
twenty years had elapsed since the sales took place, before

BADGER V.

[Sup. Ot.

BADGER.

Argument for the complainant in error.

this suit was commenced, and that this is apparent on the
record. But it does not appear that this plaintiff became
of age twenty years before the commencement of the suit.
The inference is that he did not.
or are we barred by any rule of limitations, peculiar to
courts of equity, because of alleged laches. We do not
admit "that courts of equity treat a less period than the one
specified in the statute as a bar to the claim." Story, J.,
says:* -"In a case of trusts of lands, nothing short of the
statute period, which would bar a legal estate or right of
entry, would be permitted to operate in equity as a bar of
the equitable estate." Certainly no bar, either legal or presumptive, will begin to run until after the cause of action
or suit has arisen; and in equity, in cases of fraud and mistake, it will begin to run only from the time of the discovery
of such fraud or mistake, and not before. The license to
sell, we assert and show, was procured by fraud.
Daniel Badger sustained to his mother and brothers and
sisters, more especially the minors, a relation of peculiar
trust and confidence, of both natural and legal obligation.
He was not only administrator, and thus the guardian of
their interests, but he was her son and their protector. It
was his duty, imperatively imposed, to deal with them
frankly and truthfully and honestly, and a court of equity
will hold him strictly to it. If he suffered them to be deceived, this was a fraud upon them. But whether fraud or
mistake, they will not be barred, either by the statute or by
laches, until they discovered it. When was that? Certainly not until long after these sales took place. There
can be no acquiescence without full knowledge of facts.
Even a written acknowledgment of acquiescence in his acts,
made in ignorance of their rights, would not bind them.
In Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.,t this was so held, in the
following words: "Even acquittances given to an executor,
without full knowledge of all the circumstances, where information had been withheld by the executor, are not bind.
* Baker v. Whiting, 3 Sumner, 486.

t- 4 Howard, 603.

Dec. 1864.]

BADGER V. BADGER.

Argument for the complainai t in error.

ing." And this court set aside and annulled a decree in
favor of one of the executors for a large amount, although
there had been a judgment in his favor by a competent
court, after a full trial before arbitrators, and an allowance
of the sum so found to be due him in the executor's account.
When did they first discover that they had been deceived
and imposed upon by their brother? or, in other words,
when did they first learn that their estates were not legally
liable to be taken and sold for payment of debts? for not
until that time will the limitation begin to run.
The bill alleges, substantially, that this was not known to
them until within five years before the commencement of
the suit. The answer does not deny this. It is, at least,
evasive. The bill does not allege that they "had no knowledge of the sale and purchase of these estates until," &c.,
and the answer denies what is not alleged,-leaving the
allegation unanswered.
Sufficient does not appear to make it the duty of this
court to shield the defendant from accountability for his
acts,-acts certainly never permitted to such a trustee,-on
the ground that the plaintiff has grossly neglected to enforce
his rights in the premises.
But, in cases of actual fraud, courts of equity do not adopt
or follow the statutes of limitations; they will grant relief
within the lifetime of the party who committed it, or within
thirty years after it has been discovered, or become known
to the party whose rights are affected by it.
The rule, as stated by the court, in Michoud el al. v. Girod
et al., just cited, is universally recognized and applied by
courts of equity. It has been affirmed by this court in sub.
sequent cases, and we do not think it will be controverted.
It was held, in that case, that "a purchase, per interpositam
personam, by a trustee or agent of the particular property
of which he has the sale, or in which he represents another,
whether he has an interest in it or not, carries fraud upon
the face of it;" and that "this rule applies to a purchase by
executors, though they were empowered by the will to sell
the estate;" and "that a purchase so made by executors will

BADGER

v.

BADGER.

E'Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

be set aside." The sales in the case at bar took place in
1830; the present suit was begun in 1858, and in the lifetime
of the person upon whom the fraud is proved, and within
thirty years after it had been discovered. There was sufficient motive for an heir's not attempting to set the sale aside,
in the fact that the widow would have had her dower in
whatever land might be recovered.
Mr. ferwin, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The numerous cases in the books as to dismissing a chancery bill because of staleness, would seem to be contradictory
if the dicta of the chancellors are not modified by applying
them to the peculiar facts of the case under consideration.
Thus, Lord Erskine, in an important case once before him,
says: " o length of time can prevent the unkennelling
of a fraud." And Lord Northington, in Alden v. G egory,*
with virtuous indignation against fraud, exclaims: "The
next question is, in effect, whether delay will purge a fraud?
Never-while I sit here! Every delay adds to its injustice
and multiplies its oppression." In our own court, Mr Justice Story has said :t "It is certainly true that length of time
is no bar to a trust clearly established; and in a case where
fraud is imputed and proved, length of time ought not, on
principles of eternal justice, to be admitted to repel relief.
On the other hand, it would seem that the length of time
during which the fraud has been successfully concealed and
practised, is rather an aggravation of the offence, and calls
more loudly upon a court of equity to give ample and decisive relief."
Now these principles are, no doubt, correct, but the qualifications with which they are stated should be carefully
noted:
1st. The trust must be "clearly established."
2d. Th6 facts must have been fraudulently and success.
* 2 :Eden, 285.

t Prevost r Gratz, 6 Wheaton, 481.

Dec. 1864.]

BADGER V. BADGER.
Opinion of the court.

fully concealed by the trustee from the knowledgq of the
cestui que trust.
The case of Michoud v. Girod, cited by the appellant's
counsel, is an example of the class in which the concealment
of the fraud was the aggravation of the offence. The facts
of the case were "clearly established" by records and other
written documents, and the court were not called on to
found their decree on the frail memory or active imaginations of ancient witnesses, who may not be able, after a great
lapse of time, to distinguish between their faith and their
knowledge, between things seen or heard by themselves, and
those received from family or neighborhood gossip, or upon
that most unsafe of all testimony, conversations and confessions,-remembered or imagined,-partially stated or wholly
misrepresented. The fraudulent concealment was also clearly
established. The heirs, who lived in Europe, were deceived
by the false representations of the executor, and kept in total
ignorance of the situation and value of the estate, having no
other information on the subject than that communicated to
them by him. The delay was not the consequence of any
laches in the heirs, but was caused by the successful fraud
of the executor, and was but an aggravation of the offence.
But the case before us has none of the peculiar characteristics of those to which we have referred. For more than
twenty-five years the widow and heirs have acquiesced in
this sale, and it is more than thirty since the administration
account was settled, which is alleged to have been fraudulent. The guardian of the complainant, who approved the
account, is dead; the widow died in 1855. Two of the heirs
were of full age in 1831, and the others afterwards. This
bill was filed in 1858. The bill does not state the age of
complainant. But at the time of filing his bill, he must
have been over forty years of age.
The whole transaction was public, and well known to the
widow and the heirs, and their guardians. The purchase of
the estate by the administrator could have been avoided at
once, if any party interested disapproved of it. There was
pot and could not be any concealment of the facts of the

B ADGERt V. -BADGER..

Lsuip. C1.

Opinion of the court.

case. ,The complainant claims as assignee of his elder
brothers and sisters, and uses them as witnesses to prove
the alleged fraud after a silence of over thirty years. They
attempt to prove the signature of their mother to the documents on file in the court to be forged, and this after the
death of the mother, who lived for twenty-eight years after
the transaction without complaint or allegation either that
her signature was fraudulently obtained or forged. A
daughter, who was twenty-three years of age when this sale
was made, and had full knowledge of the whole transaction,
after near thirty years' silence, now comes forward to prove
that her concurrence and assent was obtained by fraud; and
now, after the death of the guardian and the mother, who
could have explained the whole transaction, the aid of a
court of chancery is demanded to destroy a title obtained by
judicial sale, after the parties complaining, with full knowledge of their rights, have slept upon them for over a quarter
of a century.
Now, the principles upon which courts of equity act in
such cases, are established by cases and authorities too numerous for reference. The following abstract, quoted in the
words used in various decisions, will suffice for the purposes
of this decision:
"Courts of dquity, in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, consider
themselves bound by the statutes of limitation which govern
courts of law in like cases, and this rather in obedience to the
statutes than by analogy.
"1In many other cases they act upon tho analogy of the like
limitation at law. But there is a defence peculiar to courts of
equity founded on lapse of time and the staleness of the claim,
where no statute of limitation governs the case. In such cases,
courts of equity act upon their own inherent doctrine of discouraging, for the peace of society, antiquated demands, refuse
to interfere where there has been gross laches in prosecuting
the claim, or long acquiescence in the assertion of advelse
rights. Long acquiescence and laches by parties out of possession are productive of much hardship and injustice to others,
and cannot he excused but by showing some actupl hindrance

Dec. 1864.]

BADGER V. BADGER.

0.)inion of the court.

or impediment, caused by the fraud or concealment of the parties in possession, which will appeal to the conscience of the
chancellor.
"The party who makes such appeal should set forth in his bill
specifically what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution
of his claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of his rights,
and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him
in ignorance; and how and when he first came to a knowledge
of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise the chancellor may
justly refuse to consider his case, on his own showing, without
inquiring whether there is a demurrer or formal plea of the statute of limitations contained in the answer."
The bill, in this 6ase, is entirely defective in all these respects. It is true, there is a general allegation, that the
"fraudulent acts were unknown to complainant till within
five years past," while the statement of his case shows
clearly that he must have known, or could have known, if
he had chosen to inquire at any time in the last thirty years
of his life, every fact alleged in his bill. That his mother
was entitled to dower in the land if the sale was set aside,
was no impediment to his pursuit of his rights, while her
death may have removed the only witness who was able to
prove that his complaint of fraud was unfounded, and that
it was by the consent and desire of the family that the property was kept in the family name by the only one who was
able to advance the money to pay the debts of the deceased;
a fact fairly to be presumed from her silence and acquiescence for twenty-four years.
The court below very properly dismissed this bill, and refused to examine into accounts settled by the courts with
the knowledge of all parties concerned, and commencing
forty years and ending thirty years ago, and to grope after
the truth of facts involved in the mists and obscurity conseluent on such a lapse of time.
If a further reason were required for affirming this decree,
it might be found in the statute of Massachusetts, declaring
that "actions for land sold by executors, administrators, or
guardians, cannot be maintained by any heir or person

BROBST V. BROBST.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case

claiming under the deceased or intestate, unless the same be
commenced within five years next after the sale. But we
prefer to affirm the decree for the reasons given, without
passing any opinion on the effect of this statute.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BROBST V. BROBST.
1. Where the Circuit and District Judge agree in parts of a case, and
dispose of them by decree finally, but are unable to agree as to others;
and certify as to them a division of opinion, both parts of the case
may be brought to the Supreme Court at once and heard on the same
record.
2. A party allowed to enter an appeal bond, nunc pro tune, in a case where
the court supposed it probable that his solicitors had been misled by a
peculiar state of the record and mode of bringing up the questions from
the court below.

L this case, in the court below, some questions had been
disposed of finally by the Circuit and District Judges, and
others were suspended by their inability to agree and a
consequent division of opinion. An appeal was taken from
the part covered by the final decree, and a certificate of division upon the residue of the case. No appeal bond had been
entered.
A motion was now made to dismiss the appeal for want of
an appeal bond entered into as required by the act of Congress. It was also objected that no appeal could be taken
from the decision of the court below, until the certificate of
division of opinion in the same cause between the judges
was disposed of in this court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears that an appeal has been taken from that part of
the case covered by the final decree, ahd a certificate of
division upon the residue.
There is no objection to this practice. It has been ruutgnized and acted upon in several instanecs in this court

