STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

STEAMSHIP COMPANY

11 JOLIFFE.

1. When a right has arisen upon a contract, or a transaction in the nature
of a contract authorized by statute, and has been so far perfected that
nothing remains to be done by the party asserting it, the repeal of the
statute does not affect it, or an action for its enforcement. It has become a vested right, which stands independent of the statute.
Bx. gr. Where a pilot, licensed under a statute, had tendered his services
to pilot a vessel out of port. and such services were refused, his claim
to the half-pilotage fees, allowed by the statute in such cases, became
perfect; and the subsequent repeal of the statute does not affect a judgment rendered in an act ion brought to recover the claim, or the jurisdiction of this court to view the judgment on writ of error.
2. The act of Congress of August 80th, 1852, "To amend an act entitled
An act to provide for the better security of the lives of passengers on
board of vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam," does not
establish pilot regulations for ports; its object is to provide a system
under which the masters and owners of vessels, propelled in whole
or in part by steam, may be required to employ competent pilots to
navigate such vessels on their voyage.
8. The act of the State of California of May 20th, 1861, entitled "An act
to establish pilots and pilot regulations for the port of San Francisco,"
is not in conflict with it.

THIS was a suit involving the subject of the passage by
a State and by the United States of laws regulating port
pilots, and raised the question whether the United States
had, by enactment, in A. D. 1852, regulated pilotage generally. The case, a decision of which, ic was understood,
would settle several cases like it, was thus:
In 1787, when the Constitution of the United States was
adopted, the different States had each laws of their own for
the regulation of pilots and pilotage. By the Constitution,
power was given to Congress "to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States." In 1789,
Congress passed a law enacting, that "all pilots in the bays,
inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States, shall
continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing
laws of the States, respectively, wherein such pilots may
be, or with such laws as the States may respectively here.
after enact for the purpose, until further legisative provision

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY

V. JOLIFPE.

451

Statement of the case.

shall be made by Congress."* With the single exception of
a law of 1887,t by which it is made "lawful for the master
or any commander of a vessel, coming in or going out of
any port, situate upon the waters which are the boundary
between two States, to employ any pilot licensed by the
laws of either of the States," no other legislation on the
subject was had until the 80th of August, 1852. An act was
then passed, entitled "An act to amend an act, entitled An
act to provide for the better security of the lives of passengers
on board of vessels, propelled in whole or in part by steam, and
for other purposes."$ It consists of forty-four sections. Its
first declares, that no license shall issue until the provisions
of the act are complied with; "and if any such vessel shall
be navigated, with passengers on board, without complying
with the terms of the act, the owner and vessel shall be subjected to penalties set forth."
Succeeding sections relate to precautions as to fire,pumps, hose, life-boats and life-preservers, buckets, floats,
axes, safety-valves, plugs, &c.; the means of escape from the
lower deck, the carrying of gunpowder, camphene, turpentine, and other dangerous articles, and the stowage thereof
when carried; and then the act (ยง 9) provides, "that instead
of the existing provisions of law for the inspection of steamers
and their equipment, and insteadof the present system of pilotage
of such vessels, and the present mode of employing engineers on board the same," certain regulations shall be observed, to wit, the collectors, supervising inspector, and
district judge of the several designated judicial districts,
within which are important commercial ports, are to appoint
inspectors, who are empowered and required to perform
various duties, specified in the subdivisions following: the
first six of which provide for the examination and testing
the hull and the boilers and machinery; the certificate of
approval, the license to carry gunpowder, &c., and the keeping of a record of their certificates and licenses; and the
* Act of 7 August, 1789, 1 Statutes, 54.

t Act of 2 March, 1837, 5 Stat. at Large, 158.
t 10 Stat. at Large, 61.

STEAMSnIP COMPANY V.

JOLIFFE.

[Sup. CtL

Statement of the case.

seventh subdivision provides, that the inspectors shall license
and classify all engineers and pilots of steamers carrying passengers. San Francisco is included among the ports where
inspectors are to be.
The ninth enacts, that "when any person claiming to be
a skilful pilot for any such vessel, shall offer himself for a
license, the said board shall make diligent inquiry as to his
character and merits, and if satisfied that he possesses the
requisite skill, and is trustworthy and faithful, they shall
give him a certificate to that effect, licensing him for one
year, to be a pilot of any such vessel within the limit prescribed
in the certificate."
Subdivision ten enacts, that it shall be
unlawful for any person to employ, or any person to serve, as
engineer or pilot on any such vessel, who is not licensed by
the inspectors. It nevertheless, provides "that if a vessel
leaves her port with a complement of engineers and pilots,
and on her voyage is deprived of their services, &c., the deficiency may be supplied without penalty." Section twenty
speaks of the "master, engineer, pilot, or owner."
Section thirty-eight provides, that all engineers and pilots
of any such vessel shall, before entering upon their duties,
make solemn oath that they will faithfully perform all the
duties required of them by the act.
The act is full. Reports of pilots' names from port to
port, except as to San Francisco, and signals are provided
for. Parts of laws inconsistent with the act are repealed.
With this statute of the United States in force, the State
of California, in 1861,* passed "An act to establish pilots
and pilot regulations for the port. of San Francisco." This
statute created a Board of Pilot Commissioners, and authorized the board to license such number of pilots for the port
as it might deem necessary, and prescribed their qualifications, duties, and compensation. It made it a misdemeanor,
punishable by fine or imprisonment, for any person not
having a license from the board, to pilot any vessel in or out
of the port, by the way (called the Heads) which leads to
* May 20.

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JoL

PLE.

458

Statement of the case.

and from the ocean. It enacted that "all vessels, their
tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the masters *and the
owners thereof, shall be jointly and severally liable for
pilotage fees, to be recovered in any court of competent
jurisdiction." And it declared, that when a vessel was
spoken by a pilot, and his services declined, he should be
entitled to one-half pilotage fees, except when the vessel was
in tow of a steam-tug outward bound, in which case no
charge should be made, unless a pilot should be actually
employed.
In this condition of statutes, national and State, one Joliffe,
a pilot commissioned under the statute of California, spoke the
steamship Golden Gate, an American registered steamer,
(owned by the Pacific Mail Steamship Company), and exclusively employed in navigating the ocean, and carrying
passengers and treasure between San Francisco and Panama, then being in the port of San Francisco and about to
proceed to sea, and offered his services (he being the first
pilot that did so) to pilot her out. The vessel had upon her
no pilot licensed under the act of Congress. The master
declined to receive his services, and the pilot brought a suit
in the Justices' Court of California, against the Steamship
Company, for half-pilotage.
The claim was opposed on two grounds:
1. That the statute of California was in conflict with the
ah'eady mentioned act of Congress of 30th of August, 1852.
2. That it was therefore, and for other reasons, repugnant
to the provisions of the Federal Constitution, giving to Congress the power to regulate commerce.
The court below thought otherwise, and accordingly gave
judgment for $52 against the Company; a judgment subsequently affirmed in the County Court of the City and County
of San Francisco, "the highest court" of law in which a
judgment or review could be had in the case in the State
of California. The correctness of this judgment was the
point brought up in error from below.*
* The case came here of course under

25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789

STEArMSHIP

COMPANY V.

J OLIFFE.

Lsup. t

Statement of the case.

A new point, however, arose in this court. The case had
been called at the last term; when it being suggested that
the constitutionality of the statute of the State of California
would be involved in the consideration, a decision was suspended until the State of California could be represented.
The Attorney-General of the State now accordingly appeared and filed a brief. After the action of the court, as
just stated, the legislature of California passed a new statute
on the subject of pilots and pilot regulations for the port
of San Francisco, re-enacting,in substance, the provisions of the
original act, but at the same time, in terms, repealing that act.
The new act was more extensive, however, in its operation
than the old one; for it embraced within its provisions the
ports of Mare Island and Benicia, as well as the port of San
Francisco. It created a Board of Pilot Examiners for the
three ports, in place of the Board of Commissioners for the
port of San Francisco, and it prohibited the issue of licenses
to any one disloyal to the Government of the United States.
The new point now accordingly made in this court,-one
by the Attorney-General of California,-was, that by reason
of the repeal, the present action could not be maintained;
his position being, that as the claim to half-pilotage fees was
given by the statute, the right to recover it fell with its repeal; that this court accordingly would be obliged, on that
ground, to dismiss the writ of error.
The case was well argued; seven judges sitting.* Mr.
McJdlough, Attorney-General of California, supporting his
preliminary point, that the writ of error would have to be
dismissed, owing to the repeal (to which point Mr. G. Yale
replied); and Mr. D. B. _Eaton, for the plaintiff in error, arguing, with research and ability, for reversal on merits, that
is to say, from the conflict of the California statute with the
act of Congress of 30th of August, 1852, and its consequent
unconstitutionality.
* The Chief Justice, though on the bench when judgment was rendered,
took no part in it; not having taken his seat when the case was argued.
Davis and Catron, JJ., were absent, from indisposition, through the term.

Dec.

1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

455

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Cbpe, Yale, and Carlisle,for the defendant in error;
He Cullough representing the State of California.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises upon the act of the State of California,
of the 20th of May, 1861, entitled "An act to establish pilots
and pilot regulations for the port of San Francisco." The
act provides for the creation of a Board of Pilot Commissioners, and authorizes the board to license such number of
pilots for the port as it may deem necessary, and prescribes
their qualifications, duties, and compensation. It makes it
a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment, for any
person not having a license from the board, to pilot any ship
or vessel in or out of the port by way of the "Heads," that
is by the way which leads directly to and from the ocean.
It enacts that "all vessels, their tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the masters and the owners thereof, shall be
jointly and severally liable for pilotage fees, to be recovered
in any court of competent jurisdiction." And it declares,
that when a vessel is spoken by a pilot and his services are
declined, he shall be entitled to one-half pilotage fees, except
when the vessel is in tow of a steam-tug outward bound, in
which case no charge shall be made, unless a pilot be
actually employed.
On the 1st of November, 1861, the plaintiff in the court
below, the defendant in error in this court, was a pilot for
the port of San Francisco, having been regularly appointed
and licensed by the board created under the act of the State.
At that time the steamship Golden Gate was lying in the
port, and about to proceed to Panama, carrying passengers
and treasure. This vessel was then, and ever since 1852,
had been an American ocean steamer, registered at the
custom-house, in the port of N~ew York, and exclusively
employed in navigating the ocean, and carrying passengers
and treasure between San Francisco and Panama, and was
owned by the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, a corporation created under the laws of the State of New York. To
the master of this steamship the plaintiff offered his services

STEAMSHIP COMrPAXNY

V. JOLIFFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to pilot the vessel to sea; but his services were refused, and
to recover the half-pilotage fees allowed in such cases by the
act of 1861, the present action was brought.
At the last term of this court, it was suggested that the
constitutionality of the act in question was involved in the
decision of the case; and the court thereupon reserved its
consideration until the State of California could be represented. The Attorney-General of the State has accordingly
appeared and filed a brief in the case. Since the action of
the court in this respect, the legislature of California has
passed a new statute on the subject of pilots and pilot regulations for the port of San Francisco, re-enacting substantially the provisions of the original act, but at the same time
in terms repealing that act. And the first point made by
the Attorney-General is, that, by reason of the repeal, the
present action cannot be maintained. His position is, that
as the claim to half-pilotage fees was given by the statute,
the right to recover the same fell with the repeal of the
statute; and that this court must dismiss the writ of error
on that ground.
The claim to half-pilotage fees, it is true, was given by the
statute, but only in consideration of services tendered. The
object of the regulations established by the statute, was to
create a body of hardy and skilful seamen, thoroughly acquainted with the harbor, to pilot vessels seeking to enter
or depart from the port, and thus give security to life and
property exposed to the dangers of a difficult navigation.
This object would be in a great degree defeated if the selection of a pilot were left to the option of the master of the
vessel, or the exertions of a pilot to reach the vessel in order
to tender his services were without any remuneration. The
experience of all commercial states has shown the necessity,
in order to create and maintain an efficient class of pilots,
of providing compensation, not only when the services tendered are accepted by the master of the vessel, but also
when they are declined. If the services are accepted, a
contract is created between the master or owner of the yes

Dec. 1864.1

SELAMSHTIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.
Opinion of the court.

sel and the pilot, the terms of which, it is true, wre fixed by
the statute; but the transaction is not less a contract on
that account. If the services tendered are declined, the
half fees allowed are by way of compensation for the exertions and labor made by the pilot, and the expenses and
risks incurred by him in placing himself in a position to
render the services, which, in the majority of cases, would
be required. The transaction, in this latter case, between
the pilot and the master or owners, cannot be strictly termed
a contract, but it is a transaction to which the law attaches
similar consequences; it is a quasi contract. The absence
of assent on the part of the master or owner of the vessel
does not change the case. In that large class of transactions
designated in the law as implied contracts, the assent or
convention which is an essential ingredient of an actual
contract is often wanting. Thus, if a party obtain the
money of another by mistake, it is his duty to refund it, not
from any agreement on his part, but from the general obligation to do justice which rests upon all persons. In such
case the party makes no promise on the subject; but the
law, "consulting the interests of morality," implies one;
and the liabiitv thus arising is said to be a liability upon
an implied contract.* The claim for half-pilotage fees stands
upon substantially similar grounds.
"There are many cases," says Mr. Justice Curtis, speaking
for this court, "in which an offer to perform, accompanied
by present ability to perform, is deemed by law equivalent to
performance. The laws of commercial states and countries
have made an offer of pilotage services one of those cases."t
The claim of the plaintiff below for half-pilotage fees,
resting upon a transaction regarded by the law as a quasi
contract, there is no just ground for the position that it fell
with the repeal of the statute under which the transaction
was had. When a right has arisen upon a contract, or a
transaction in the nature of a contract authorized by statute,
* Argenti v. San Francisco, 16 California 282; Maine on Ancient Law,
144.
i- Cooley v. B ,ard of "Wardensof Fort of lFhiladelphia, 12 Howard, 812.

STEAMSHIP COMPANY

V. JOLIFFE.

[Sap, Ct

Opinion of the court.

and has been so far perfected that nothing remains to be
done by the party asserting it, the repeal of the statute does
not affect it, or an action for its enforcement. It has become
a vested right which stands independent of the statute. And
such is the position of the claim of the plaintiff below in the
present action: the pilotage services had been tendered by
him; his claim to the compensation prescribed by the statute was then perfect, and the liability of the master or owner
of the vessel had become fixed.
And it is clear that the legislature did not intend by the
repealing clause in the act of 1864, to impair the right t(
fees, which had arisen under the original act of 1861. The
new act re-enacts substantially all the provisions of the ori.
ginal act, relating to pilots and pilot regulations for thc
harbor of San Francisco. It subjects the pilots to similar
examinations; it requires like qualifications; it prescribes
nearly the same fees for similar services; and it allows halfpilotage fees under the same circumstances as provided in
the original act. It appears to have been passed for the
purpose of embracing within its provisions the ports of Mare
Island and Benicia, as well as the port of San Francisco; of
creating a Board of Pilot Examiners for the three ports, in
place of the Board of Pilot Commissioners for the port of
San Francisco alone, and of prohibiting the issue of licenses
to any persons who were disloyal to the Government of the
United States. The new act took effect simultaneously with
the repeal of the first act; its provisions may, therefore, more
properly be said to be substituted in the place of, and to
continue in force with modifications, the provisions of the
original act, rather than to have abrogated and annulled
them. The observations of Mr. Chief Justice Shaw, in
Wright v. Oakley,* upon the construction of the Revised
Statutes of Massachusetts, which in terms repealed the previous legislation of the State, may with propriety be applied
to the case at bar.
"In construing the revised statutes and the connected
* 5 Metcalf, 406

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP

COMPANY V.

JOLInPE.

459

Opinion of the court.

acts of amendment and repeal, it is necessary to observe
great caution to avoid giving an effect to these acts which
was never contemplated by the legislature. In terms, the
whole body of the statute law was repealed; but these repeals went into operation simultaneously with the revised
statutes, which were substituted for them, and were intended
to replace them, with such modifications as were intended
to be made by that revision. There was no moment in
which the repealing act stood in force without being replaced by the corresponding provisions of the revised statutes. In practical operation and effect, therefore, they are
rather to be considered as a continuance and modification
of old laws than as an abrogation of those old and the reenactment of new ones."
On the trial in the court below two grounds were urged
in defence of the action: 1st, the unconstitutionality of the
act of the State of May 20, 1861; and, 2d, the repugnancy
of its provisions to the act of Congress of August 30, 1852.
Similar grounds were urged in this court for the reversal of
the judgment.
The unconstitutionality of the act was asserted from its
alleged conflict with the 3d clause of the 8th section of the
1st article, which declares that "the Congress shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian tribes." The power
conferred by this clause is without limitation; it extends to
all the subjects of commerce, and to all persons engaged in
it; it embraces traffic, navigation, and intercourse, and
necessarily, therefore, the whole subject of pilots and pilotage. But the clause does not, in terms, exclude the exercise
of any authority by the States to regulate pilots. On the
contrary, the authority of the States to regulate the whole
subject, in the absence of legislation pn the part of Congress,
has been recognized from the earliest period of the Government. On the formation of the Union there were laws in force
in the different States bordering on the sea for the regulation
of pilots and pilotage; and at its first session, in 1789, Congress passed an act adopting the existing regulations and

STEAMSHIP COMPAT'Y 7'.

J OIFFE.

LSup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

such as might be provided by subsequent legislation of the
States. The act reads as follows: "All pilots in the bays,
inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States, shall
continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing
laws of the States respectively wherein such pilots may be,
or with such laws as the States may resectively hereafter enactfor
the purpose, until further legislative provision shall be made
by Congress." In 1837, another act was passed making it
"lawful for the master or commander of any vessel coming
in or going out of any port, situate upon the waters whicl
are the boundary between two States, to employ any pilot
duly licensed or authorized by the laws of either of the
States." No other legislation has been had by Congress
impairing the right of the States to adopt such system for
the regulation of port pilots as they might deem best, unless
it be found in the act of August 30, 1852.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that this act of 1852
is in conflict with the provisions of the act of the State of
May, 1861; that in fact it has superseded all State legislation concerning port pilotage, so far as steamers carrying
passengers are concerned, and to that extent has modified
or repealed the act of 1789.
From a careful examination of the act of 1852 we have
arrived at a different conclusion. We do not perceive in its
provisions any intention to supersede the State legislation
recognized by the act of 1789, or any inconsistency with the
local port regulations established by the act of California of
1861. The act of 1852 was intended, as its title indicates, to
provide greater security than then existed for the lives of
passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole or part by
steam. Previous to its passage frequent accidents, occasioning in some instances great loss of life, occurred to steamers,
arising from the imperfect construction of the vessel, deiective machinery, inadequate protection against fires, the carrying of dangerous articles, or the want of pumps, life-boats,
and other means of escape in case of danger. To guard
against accidents from these and like sources was the general
purpose of the act of 1852. It therefore contains provi-

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP

OMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

461

Opinion of the court.

sions relating to fires, pumps, boats, life-preservers, buckets,
the means of escape from the lower to the upper deck, the
carrying of gunpowder, camphene, and other dangerous
articles, and their stowage. It also provides for the appointment of two inspectors, one of whom is to possess a practical
knowledge of shipbuilding and the uses of steam in navigation, and the other is to possess knowledge of and experience in the duties of an engineer of steam-vessels, and of the
construction and use of boilers and machinery and appurtenances connected with them, and the two are required to
make an examination of the hulls of the vessels, to inspect
and test the boilers and machinery, and to require licenses
to be obtained before dangerous articles can be taken aboard.
The act contains few provisions relating to pilots; indeed,
it was not directed to the remedy of any evils of the local
pilot system. There were no complaints against the port
pilots; on the contrary, they were the subjects of just praise
for their skill, energy, and efficiency. The clauses respecting
pilots in the act relate, in our judgment, to pilots having
charge of steamers on the voyage, and not to port pilots;
and the provision that no person shall be employed or serve
as a pilot who is not licensed by the inspectors has reference
to employment and service on the voyage generally, and not
to employment and service in connection with ports and
harbors.
Thus the ninth section speaks of a vessel leaving herport
with a complement of engineers and pilots, and provides for
temporarily supplying the deficiency in case she is deprived
of their services on her voyage.* And, again, the same section speaks of pilots as belonging to the vessels on which they
are employed, and requires them to assist in the inspection
of the vessels,-language which is entirely inappropriate to
local or port pilots, whose employment lasts but a few hours,
and who have no connection with any vessel except to bring
into or take it out of port.t
The term pilots is equally applicable to two classes of per
* Subdivision 10.

t

Subdivision 15.

462

STEAISHIP COMPANY r.

JOLIFrE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

sons,-to those whose employment is to guide vessels in and
out of ports, and to those who are intrusted with the management of the helm and the direction of the vessel on her voyage.* To the first class, for the proper performance of their
duties, a thorough knowledge of the port in which they are
employed is essential, with its channel, currents, and tides,
and its bars, shoals, and rocks, and the various fluctuations
and changes to which it is subject. To the second class,
knowledge of entirely a different character is necessary. Yet
the act in question does not require the inspectors, who are
to license pilots under its provisions, to possess any knowledge of the harbors for which, under the theory of the plaintiff in error, pilots are to be licensed, or to exact any such
knowledge from the pilots themselves. They are to issue
their license to a pilot when satisfied, from "inquiry as to
his character and merits," that he "possesses the requisite
skill, and is trustworthy and faithful." The qualifications
thus required may be sufficient for the pilot of the steamer
on her voyage at sea, but are entirely insufficient for the
intricacies of harbor navigation.
On the argument at the bar much stress was laid by counsel for the plaintiff in error upon the language of the first
clause of the ninth section, as indicating an intention to supersede State legislation on the subject of port pilotage. That
section declares "that instead of the existing provisions of law
for the inspection of steamers and their equipment, and
instead of the present system of pilotaqe of such vessels, and
the present mode of employing engineers on board the
same," certain regulations should be observed as prescribed
by the act. But in our judgment the section excludes the
inference drawn by counsel. No explanation is given as to
the meaning of the term "system," as here used; but it is
clear that it does not refer to any system established by law.
The section supersedes in express terms "existing provisions
of law" for the inspection of steamers and their equipment,
but it uses different language when speaking of pilotage. If
- Abbott on Shipping, 195; Bouvier's Law Dictionary, term "Pilots."

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.
Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

the section had also been directed against the law recognizing
State regulations in respect to port pilotage, the intention of
Congress in that respect would undoubtedly have been expressed with equal clearness, and not left to be implied from
the use of an indefinite and ambiguous term.
The act does not purport to establish regulations for port
pilotage; and we cannot suppose that in a measure intended
to give greater security to life Congress would have swept
away all the safeguards in this respect provided by State
legislation without substituting anything in their place. Under the act the ports may be left entirely without resident
or local pilots, for it does not require the appointment of
such pilots, though the necessity for them must have been
obvious. Having omitted this important requirement, the
act omits of course all provisions as to the number of pilots,
their duties, responsibilities, and. compensation. These are
matters of the greatest consequence, are contained in all
State regulations, and without them no effective system can
ever be established.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER (with whom concurred WAYNE
and CLIFFORD, JJ.) dissenting:
In this case seven members of the court heard the argument and participated in its decision. Of this number only
four concur in the judgment and opinion of the court. These
facts, as well as the importance of the main question whether
the act of the California legislature concerning pilots is in
conflict with the act of Congress of 1852 on the same subject, and, therefore, void, justify a statement of the views of
the minority.
There was a preliminary point, however, raised by the
Attorney-General of California, much pressed and well argued on both sides, on which I had hoped the case would
have been decided without reaching the question just stated;
a point I think well taken, and fully sustained by the authorities. The proposition is, that the statute of California.

STEAMSHIP

COMPANY V.

JOLIFFE.

Lsup. Ct.

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

under which plaintiff below recovered his judgment, has

been repealed since the writ of error was sued to this court;
and that the action being wholly dependent on the statute,
the repeal takes away the right, and the judgment which he
has obtained must be reversed, and the case dismissed.

That the 26th section of the act of April 4th, 1864,* does,
in express terms, repeal the act under which plaintiff's proceeding was instituted, is not denied. It is equally clear that
there is no clause in the act of 1864 saving rights which had
accrued under the act repealed. I take the law to be well
settled that a right of action not growing out of contract,
but which is solely dependent upon a statute, ceases and determines with the statute on which it depends.
One of the earliest cases on that subject is Miller's Case.t
That was a case in which Miller had been made, under a
compulsory clause in a statute of insolvency, to give in a
schedule of his property, and deliver it up to his creditors.
The statute then authorized a discharge from all his debts.
He accordingly moved for such discharge. But the justices
of the county court for some reason delayed this from time
to time, until the compulsory clause of the act was repealed,
and then refused it altogether. On an application for mandamus in the King's Bench, Lord Mansfield held that the
repeal of the law carried with it the right to a discharge, and
overruled the application. In Surtees v. Jllison, where the
same question was raised on an act repealing the bankrupt
law then in existence, Lord Tenterden said, that notwith.
standing the disastrous effect of the repeal on previous cabes
of bankruptcy, and on proceedings then in progress under
the act, they were not at liberty to break in upon the general
rule. In the subsequent case of Key v. Goodwin,ยง Tindal,
C. J., says: "I take the effect of the repealing statute to be
to obliterate the repealed statute as completely from the records of Parliament as if it had never passed, and that it
must be considered as a law that never existed, except for
* Statutes of California, 1863-4, page 392.

t 1 William Blackstone, 451; S. 0. more at large in 3 Burrow, 1466.
1 9 Barnwall & Cresswell, 750.
4 Moore & Payne, 341.

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIEFE.
Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

the purpose of those actions or suits which were commenced,
prosecuted, and concluded while it was an existing law."
This principle is also sustained by numerous American
cases, cited in the note below.*
It is maintained, however, that in this court, on a writ of
error, we can only determine if there was error in the record as the law stood at the time the decision of the court
was made, which is brought here for review.
In the cases of .Hartungv. The People, and Sanches v. The
People,t which are very recent cases, and were much considered, the Court of Appeals of New York unanimously
held, that while on a writ of error, the case must be decided
on the record as made in the court below, the question of
error or no error must be determined by the law as it stands
at the time the case is heard in the Court of Appeal. Such,
also, is the decision in the Pennsylvania case of Commonwealth v. Duane,j which was an indictment for libel, in
which the statute on which it was founded was repealed
after the defendant had been found guilty in the court below,
and the appellate court held that for that reason the case
must be reversed, and the libel dismissed. Lewis v. Foster,ยง
in the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, decides the same
thing on a case of review under their statute. The cases of
Yeaton v. United States,I and Schooner .achel, in this court,
decide, that on appeal from an admiralty decree, that decree
will be reversed, because the law under which the vessel
became forfeited had expired by its own limitation pending
the appeal, although the vessel had been sold and the money
paid into the Treasury of the United States before the statute expired.
Unquestionably, the appellate tribunal is bound to take
* Butler v. Palmer, 1 Hill, N. Y. 824; Hartung v. The People, 22 New
York, 95; Sanches v. The People, Id. 155; Commoniwealth v. Duane, 1
Binney, 601; Board of Trustees v. City of Chicago, 14 Illinois, S84; Yeaton
v. United States, 5 Cranch, 281; Schooner Rachel, 6 Id. 829.
t Cited in note, supra.
1 Binney, 601; cited supra, in note.
1 New Hampshire, 61
Jj 5 Cranch, 281.
6 Id. 329.
VOL. U
80

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

FSupi. Ort

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

judicial notice of the repealing statute. If so, I fail to see
how it can affirm a judgment, which, by the law in existence
at the time of such affirmance, has become erroneous, though
not so when rendered. And so are the authorities without
exception, as far as I am aware.
But it is said that plaintiff, by his judgment in the court
below, acquired a vested right to the sum of money for
which he recovered that judgment, which could not be taken
away by a repeal of the act.
I deny that a party suing another for a statute penalty can
acquire a vested right in the sum which the law allows in
such cases, until he has actually received the money into his
own possession. Such is evidently the principle deducible
from the cases of Yeaton v. United States, and the Schooner
Rachel, above referred to. Such is also the express decision
of this court in the case of NYorris v. Crocker,* except that in
that case the repeal took place while the suit was pending
and before judgment. This court held, in the language of
Judge Catron, that, "as the plaintiff had no vested right in
the penalty, the legislature might discharge the defendant
by repealing the law."
A judgment is only one of the steps in the progress of a
suit by which the plaintiff, if successful, obtains what he is
seeking. It only declares the right of the party, but does not
create it, It may be set aside or reversed, and gives the
plaintiff no right superior to that which he had before he
obtained it.
If the claim on which he proceeded was a vested right, it
remains so after judgment; not because of the judgment,
but because it existed before, and the judgment only ascertains that fact, and enables him to enforce it. If the judgment was founded on a statute right, it still only declares
that on the facts as the law then stood, the plaintiff was entitled to recover; but that right is no more sacred or no more
protected from legislative action than before. If there is such
a thing as a vested right in a statute penalty, it must become
* 13 Howard, 429.

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFF,.

467

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

vested either when the facts occur which give the right, or
when the plaintiff makes his claim to the benefit of the statute by commencing an action for the sum which the law
allows. That no such right accrues from either of those circumstances, the cases-which I have last cited seem conclusive.
But it is said that although the act of April 4th, 1864, repeals the prior act, it re-enacted the same provisions on the
subject of pilots, and that this operates as a continuance of
the former law. It may be answered that if such were the
intention of the framers of the new law, the repealing clause
is not only useless, but, if effectual, it must operate to defeat that intention. In the next place, the appropriate and
usual mode of expressing such an intention is by a saving
clause; and, lastly, by a well-settled rule of construction, the
new statute can have no retrospective operation, unless by
its own express language, or by necessary implication,neither of which exist in this case. The case of the Board
of Trustees v. City of Chicago,* was one where proceedings to
condemn property for public use were instituted under the
city charter. While they were pending, the legislature passed
an act which amounted to a new charter, but which contained
no repealing clause. The Supreme Court held that the new
charter by implication repealed the old one; and although
it granted the right to condemn as the other one had done,
yet the right to proceed under the old charter was gone, and
the party must begin and proceed under the new one.
1No authority, I believe, can be found to controvert this
principle. The remark of C. J. Shaw concerning the necessity of so construing the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts,
when the entire laws of the State had been revised and reenacted, as to prevent a total lapse of all rights existing
under the statutes thus revised, can have no application to
the case of a single statute expressly repealed by a clause in
a new law on the same subject.
It is contended by counsel in the argument that the judg
* 14 Illinois, 884.

STEAMSHIP

COMPANY

V. JOLIFFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

ment in this case is based on contract, and that no repeal of
the statute by State law can impair its obligation. This idea
seems to me without foundation. The statute enacts, for the
protection of the pilots of San Francisco, that a vessel approaching or leaving the harbor shall employ the first pilot,
licensed under that law, who offers his services; and if the
officers of the boat refuse, it renders the owners liable in an
action by that pilot to half the usual pilot fees. If the officers of the vessel accept the pilot and his services, unques.
tionably the law implies a contract to pay either what thev
may reasonably be worth, or the sum fixed by statute. But
if they refuse to accept him or his services, they violate the
law; for which violation it imposes the penalty of half the
usual pilot fees. Here is no element of contract; no consent of minds; no services rendered for which the law implies an obligation to pay. It is purely a case of a violation
of the law in refusing to perform what it enjoins, and the
enforcement of the penalty for the benefit of the party injured. It is just as easy to see a contract in a hundred other
cases where the law imposes a penalty for its violation, and
gives an action of debt for the recovery of that penalty.
It is my opinion, then, that we should have reversed the
judgment, and ordered the dismissal of the case on the
grounds just discussed.
As regards the merits of the case, it seems to me still
clearer that the judgment should have been reversed. The
case of Cooley v. The Board of Wardens,* raises the question
of the relation of pilots and pilotage to commerce, and holds
that the power of regulating pilots by law, and framing a
system for their government and control, is clearly conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution. It also holds that in the
absence of the exercise of that power by Congress, the States
may provide such rules and regulations on the subject as may
be necessary and proper; but the implication is forcible, that
if any such regulation is in conflict with any act of Congress,
* 12 Howard, 299.

Dec. 1864.1

STEAMSHIP COMPANY

V. JOLIFFE.

469

Miller, Wayne, and Cifford, JJ., dissenting.

it is void; and, indeed, that if Congress has legislated on the
same subject with a view to provide a system of rules, that
there is no place left for State legislation. The proposition
is too plain for argument, that, if Congress has power to pass
such laws, and has passed them, any act of a State legislature
in conflict with them must necessarily be void. I do not understand the majority of the court to controvert this principle, or even to deny that if Congress has legislated on this
precise subject, and provided rules for this very class of cases,
that then the act of the legislature of California is to that
extent void. But the precise point of difference between us
is, that while I contend that an act of Congress of August
30th, 1852, covers the subject-matter of the statute of California under which defendant in error claims, they deny that
it does cover the case, or was intended to apply to pilots of
harbors and ports of the several States.
That act is in terms confined to vessels propelled in whole
or in part by steam; and its object, as stated in the title, is
the better security of the lives of passengers on board such
vessels. The ninth section of the act, which is a very long
section, composed of fifteen subsections, opens by declaring, "That instead of the existing provisions of law for the
inspection of steamers and their equipments, and instead of
the present system of pilotage of such vessels, and the present
mode of employing engineers on board the same, the following regulations shall be observed, to wit." Here, then, is a
declaration that it is the purpose of the act to abolish the
old systems, and establish new ones on three distinct subjects: 1st, as to the inspection of steamers and their equipments; 2d, as to a system of pilotage; and 3d, as to the
mode of employing engineers. The regulations adopted by
this act are declared to be "instead of the (then) present
system of pilotage." What system of pilotage was then in
existence? Certainly none had been established by Congress. The act of 1838, to which this was an amendment,
does not say a word about pilots or engineers. The acts of
August 7th, 1789, and March 2d, 1837, had provided that
State regulations should prevail until further action by Con.

STEAMSHIP COMPANY r.

JOLIFFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford. JJ., dissenting.

gress. The system of pilotage, then, which was in existence
when the act of 1852 was passed, was the State regulations
of each port, almost all of which are substantially the same
with the act of the California legislature of 1861. And it
was this system which was to be superseded, and the one
provided in the act of Congress introduced in its stead. This
idea derives support from the significant fact that the decision of this court, holding that the State regulations were in
force because no system had been adopted by Congress, was
made in the winter of 1851-2; and this act, which provides
such a system, was passed by Congress, August 30th, 1852.
Unquestionably, Congress intended to supply that very
system which the Supreme Court had intimated was needed,
and was in the power of Congress to provide.
Let us examine, now, some of the provisions of this act
which concern pilots.
Section nine creates a board of inspectors in each of
twenty-three different ports of the Union, including San
Francisco. Subdivision seven of that section says, that these
inspectors shall license and classify all engineers and pilots
of steamers carrying passengers. Subdivision nine says:
"Whenever any person, claiming to be a skilful pilot for
any such vessel, shall offer himself for a license, the board
shall make diligent inquiry as to his character and merits,
and if satisfied that he possesses the requisite skill, and is
trustworthy and faithful, they shall give him a certificate to
that effect, licensing him for one year to be a pilot of any
such vessel, within the limit prescribed in such certificate." It
also provides for revocation of the license for proper cause.
Subsection ten says: "It shall be unlawful for any person
to employ, or any person to serve, as engineer or pilot on
any such vessel who is not licensed by the inspectors; ana
any one so offending shall forfeit one hundred dollars for
such offence."
Subsections thirteen and fifteen of section 9, and sections
29 and 38, all provide that these pilots shall be under the
control of the boards of inspectors; shall take an oath to
discharge their duties faithfully; and shall be liable to re-

Dec. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.
Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

moval and other penalties for unfaithful or unskilful conduct.
Section 23 requires the collectors of each port to report to
the collectors of every other port the pilots licensed at their
respective ports. From this provision the port of San Francisco is excepted. The obvious reason is,. that being the
only port on the Pacific coast where a board of inspectors is
established by the law, there is no reason to suppo.se that
pilots will be licensed at other ports for that coast, or at San
Francisco for any other than the Pacific coast and ports.
In these enactments, and in the regulations which are anthorized to be made of a set of signals in passing each other,
we see a system of pilotage as complete, or more so, than
any which had previously existed, and, in fay judgment, one
more judicious, and better calculated to secure safety of life
and property than the one provided by the California statute. If, then, the principle be a sound one that, when Congress has provided such a system, those existing under State
laws must give way, and if, as it appears manifestly from this
act, the system thus provided was intended to be instead of
and in exclusion of the State systems, how can the act of the
California legislature stand?
It is said that the act of Congress was only intended to
provide pilots for a voyage, and is not applicable to the local
pilots of the ports. I am not able to perceive anything in the
relation of these port pilots to the Federal Government and
its right to regulate commerce, or in the nature of the special service which they are expected to perform, which can
furnish any.ground for this distinction. All the other regulations of commerce extend to the ports, and they are emphatically the theatre where commercial regulations are most
needed, and where Congress has oftenest exercised its power
to regulate commerce. As to the services usually rendered
by these pilots, if they are more difficult and require a higher
degree of skill than others, there would seem to be the
greater necessity why they should be thoroughly examined
and licensed by the proper authority, and also why they
should be under the control of proper officers, and subjected

STEA.111IIIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

[Sup). CL

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

to laws and rules calculated to compel a strict performance
of their duties. All these are well provided for in the act
of Congress.
It seems to be supposed, however, that the pilots licensed
under the act of Congress must necessarily be for long
voyages, and that such licenses cannot issue limited to the
bays and harbors of the various ports. This is a great mistake. The board of inspectors for each port should be as
competent to determine the qualifications of these local pilots
as any such examiners appointed by the State. That portion of subsection nine of section 9, which I have quoted in
italics, says that they are to license a person "to be a pilot
on any such vessel within the limits prescribed in his certificate." If, then, the pilot licensed is particularly skilled as
a port pilot, and competent for no more, his license will restrict him accordingly. If he is competent for the voyage
and not for the harbor, his license will exclude him from
piloting in the harbor. This idea is in direct conflict with
the language of the act of Congress, which declares that the
boards of inspectors "shall license and classify all engineers
and pilots of steamers carrying passengers." The opinion
assumes, in the face of this language, that there may be a
very large class of pilots allowed to exercise their profession
without such a license.
Again, all these regulations apply in the same terms of
license and prohibition to engineers and pilots. But can it
be pretended that a vessel may go into a port and out of it
without a licensed engineer, and yet be guilty of no violation of the law? If the statute is only applicable to pilots on
a voyage, it must also apply only to engineers on a voyage.
But it is argued that the whole system of pilotage relates
to the voyage, and does not include the ports; because a
proviso to subdivision ten of section nine says, that if the
owners of the boat shall, without default of theirs, be deprived of the services of a licensed pilot or engineer on the
voyage, they shall be relieved of the penalty which the law
imposes for navigating their vessel without one, until such
time as they can procure a licensed pilot or engineer. From

Dee.. 1864.]

STEAMSHIP COMPANY V. JOLIFFE.

47-3

Miller, Wayne, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

this proviso I draw an inference precisely the reverse. For
ihis statute evidently means, that if this loss of the services
of a licensed pilot or engineer takes place before the port is
left, it is no protection against the penalty, because it may
be supplied. And so if it occurs after the port is left, and
is Lot supplied by a licensed pilot as soon as you approach
the port where one can be obtained, the protection ceases.
It may be urged that the system provided by Congress is
incomplete, because there is no provision for compensation
of pilots, and none for compelling vessels to accept, in their
due order or rotation, those who may offer. Congress may
well have thought that these matters might be prudently
left to the laws of supply and demand, and to the ability of
the parties concerned to take care of their own interests.
If this principle prevails, that the ports are exempt from the
law of Congress as to pilots, I expect to see every town on
the lakes, the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, as well as all their
tributaries, passing its ordinances, that when steamboats
come within a mile of their landing they must stop and take
on board a local pilot., or pay him compensation fbr refusal.
If the States where seaports exist can make laws thus to
burden commerce, I see no reason why the States which
have towns on navigable rivers should not pass similar laws.
I may add here, that if we permit the States to interject
their legislation at every point, however minute or unimportant, which they may incy that Congress has left unoccupied; then in all that class of cases in which it has been
held that the States may legislate until Congress acts on the
subject, we shall have this piebald, conflicting, and incon.
gruous system of laws, with a persistent struggle, on the
part of the States, to control the legislation of Congress.
But not only is the act of the California legislature void,
because Congress has provided a system of pilotage which
is in its nature exclusive, but it is also void because its provisions are in direct conflict with the act of Congress. The
statute of California provides, that if one of the pilots which
it recognizes shall offer his services to a vessel and is refused,
-he owner of the vessel shall pay the penalty; and it does not

474

THE BAIGORIRY.

[Sup.

Ct

Statement of the case.

require, as condition for claiming this penalty, that such
pilot shall have the license required by act of Congress.
The act of Congress provides, that if any person shall be
employed as a pilot on such vessel without such license as it
prescribes, the owner shall forfeit the sum of one hundred
dollars. Here is a manifest conflict. It is made a part of
this case, as found by the court below, that the plaintiff did
not have any such license as the act of Congress required.
Defendant, notwithstanding this, has been compelled by the
State court, under the State law, to pay fifty-two dollars for
refusing to take this pilot. If he had accepted him, he
would have forfeited to the United States the sum of one
hundred dollars for violating the act of Congress. The conflict of the two statutes is too obvious for comment. I think
the act of Congress ought to prevail.

THE

BAIGORRY.

1. The blockade of the coast of Louisiana, as established there, as on the
rest of the coast of the Southern States generally, by President Lincoln's proclamation of 19th April, 1861, was not terminated by the
capture of the forts below New Orleans, in the end of April, 1862,
by Commodore Farragut, and the occupation of the city by General
Butler on and from the 6th of May, and the proclamation of President
Lincoln of 12th May, 1862, declaring that after June 1st the blockade
of the port of New Orleans should cease. Hence, it remained in force at
Calcasieu, on the west extremity of the coast of Louisiana, as before.
2. The fact that the master and mate saw, as they swear, no blockading
ships off the port where their vessel was loaded, and from which she
sailed, is not enough to show that a blockade, once established and notified, had been discontinued.
8. Intent to run a blockade may be inferred in part from delay of the vessel to sail after being completely laden; and from changing the ship's
course in order to escape a ship of war cruising for blockade-runners.
4. A vessel and cargo, even when perhaps owned by neutrals, may be condemned as enemy property, because of the employment of the vessel
in enemy trade, and because of an attempt to violate a blockade, and
to elude visitation and search.

THE schooner Baigorry, laden wholly with cotton, waf
%-aptured at sea, about one hundred miles off Havana, to

