Dec. 1864.]

LEVY COURT v. CORONER.
Statement of the ease.

LEVY COURT V. CORONER.
1. The Levy Court of Washington County, in the District of Columbia, if
not a corporation in the full sense of the term, is a quasi corporation;
and can sue and be sued in regard to any matter in which, by law, it
has rights to be enforced, or is under obligations which it refuses to
fulfil.
2. The fees allowed by the eighth section of the act of Congress of July 8,
1838, to the coroners of the counties of Washington and Alexandria,
and to jurors and witnesses who may be lawfully summoned by them
to any inquest, are payable by the Levy Court of the county, not by the
Federal Government.
3. Jurors and witnesses summoned in form by the coroner's summons, regularly served, are so far "lawfully summoned" under the eighth section
of the act of July 8, 1838, just named, that they may be allowed their
fees, though the case of death in which they were summoned was strictly
not one for a coroner's view, and though the coroner himself would be
entitled to none. Fees advanced by the coroner to jurors and witnesses
in such a cause may be properly reimbursed to him, and consistently
with a refusal to pay him those claimed as his own.
THE

coroner of the County of Washington, D. C., brought

assumpsit in the Circuit Court of the District against what is
called the "Levy Court" of Washington, for his fees; fees
for "viewing the body," and fees which he had advanced to
jurors and witnesses at inquests called by him for that purpose.

Three questions arose:
1. A preliminary one; namely, whether the "Levy Court"
was a body capable of being sued at all?
2. If it was, whether it was the Levy Court or the Federal
Government which was bound to pay the fees of coroners
and their inquests, &c.
8. If it was the Levy Court which was bound to pay them,
whether the coroner could recover fees advanced to jurors
and witnesses on occasions where the death, though sudden,
had not occurred from other than natural causes; cases, for
example, where the death came from apoplexy, fits, excessive
and habitual intemperance, and other cases which the coroner
Ponsiered

had occurred from "misadventure,"

but which

502

LEVY

COURT

V. CORONE t.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

might not have fallen within that term as interpreted by the
law.
AS RESPECTED THE FIRST QUESTION,-the preliminary one,
of whether the Levy Court was a body capable of being
sued,-it appeared that this body derived its powers from a
statute of Maryland, passed A.D. 1794, entitled "An act
for the establishment and regulation of the Levy Courts in
the several counties of this State." This authorized them
to adjust the expenses of the county, and to impose an assessment for their payment, and to appoint a collector, who shall
give bond to the "State. Suits were directed to be brought
against the collector, and judgments entered in the name of
the State. By other statutes they are charged with the expenses of the county relating to roads, bridges, the poor
and poor-houses, the orphans' court, the jail, &c., and invested with power to levy such expenses by taxes. One of
these statutes calls them Commissioners of the County, and
some acts of Congress speak of them in the same terms.
As RESPECTED THE SECOND QUESTION-that is to say, whether
the fees of the coroner, his inquests and witnesses, were
payable by the Federal Government, or by the Levy Court
itself, it is necessary to state the history of the legislation
under which the claim was made.
Prior to the year 1838, there was no compensation allowed
in the District by law to jurors and witnesses for attending
inquests on the coroner's summons. They were compelled
to attend by due process for the public good. The coroner
himself, however, by an old statute of Maryland, passed
A.D. 1779, but in force in the District, had a fixed fee-two
hundred and fifty pounds of tobacco-for each inquest, without regard to the time which he might be required to give
to it, or the trouble which it cost. This fee the statute
made payable, in the first place, out of the estate of the
decedent, and, in the absence of such estate, by the Levy
On the 7th of July, 1888, Gongress passed an act,* the
* 5 Stat. at Large, 806.

Dec. 1964.]

LEVY

COURT V.

CORONER.

Statement of the case.

main purpose of which was to create a criminal court for
Washingrton County, and transfer to it fiom the Circuit Court
the jurisdiction of criminal causes. This Circuit Court had,.
been in existence for many years,* and, from the date ofits
establishment, the marshal of the District, and.also jurors and
witnesses, had been paid forom the treasury of the United States.
The thirdsection of the new act-the act, to wit, of 1838provides that the district attorney, marshal, and clerkof the
Circuit Court, shall attend the criminal court, and.perform
the same duties, in relation to criminal causes, which had
been required of them in the Circuit Court; and shall re-.
ceive the same compensation therefor. Like provision is
made for-witnesses and jurors.
Then came an eighth section in these words:
"There shall hereafter be allowed and paid to the coroners of
thecounties of Washington and Alexandriai in said District, and
to the jurors and witnesses who may be lawfully summoned ,bythem in any inquest, thesame fees and compensation as are now.
paid to the marshal of said District,and the jurors and witnesses
attending said Circuit Court in said county, for simila, services."
These fees were construed; by the parties concerned, to be
such as the marshal received for summoning, swearing, and
impanelling jurors, swearing witnesses,.and returning inquisitions. But the statute did not say who was to pay either
the fees given by the third section to the district attorney,
marshal, and clerk of the Circuit Court, or those given by
the eighth section to the coroner, his jurors and witnesses;
the same with the former.
THE THIrD QUESTION depended upon the expression of this
same section, that these fees were to be paid to jurors and
witnesses who might be "lawfudly summoned" by coroners
to "any" inquest; and on the fact, whether or not an inquest and witnesses, who, received a summons, in form and
on its face wholly regular, were. "lawfully summoned" to
any inquest which the law, rightly interpreted, would not
consider a proper case for the coroner's jurisdiction.
* It was esteblished by act of February 27, 1801; 2 Stat. at large, 103.

504

LEVY COURT v. CORONER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Levy Court, plaintiff in error.

The court below thought, on thefirst point, that the Levy
Court was a body which could properly be sued; on the second, that it, and not the Federal Government, was the party
to pay the coroner's fees. On the third,-while it thought
that in no case of death from apoplexy, fits, or excessive and
habitual intemperance, or of sudden death proceeding from
natural causes and the visitation of God, it was proper to
hold an inquest, and accordingly disallowed the coroner's
claim in such cases to fees for himsef,--it yet allowed him
reimbursement of fees advanced by him to inquests and witnesses.
Judgment having been given accordingly, the correctness
of the views taken below was now the matter in error here.
Hr. W. S. Cox, for the Levy Court, plaintiff in error:
I. On the preliminary point. There is no act of Maryland
or of Congress which makes the Levy Court a corporation,
or endows it with the capacity of suing and being sued.
Even if it could be considered a quasi corporation, it could
not sue or be sued without an enactment to that effect.
Accordingly, the only reported cases in this District, to
which the Levy Court was a party, were cases of a special
character; one the case of a rule to show cause,* and the
other a special and summary application, under an act of
Congress.t English cases indicate that the justices of the
county in England exercise functions analogous to those of
our Levy Court, and cannot be proceeded against by suit,
but only by mandamus.
1-. But the court below also erred in their construction
of the act of 1888. In the third section, it directs that the
district attorney, marshal, and clerk of the Circuit Court
shall attend the Criminal Court, and perform all the duties
by law required of them in relation to the criminal busi.
ness of the Circuit Court, and shall receive the same fees and
'ompensat ion therefor, and that the jurors and witnesses attend* Levy Court v. Ringgold, 2 Cranch's Circuit Court, 659.
Levy Court v. The Corporation of Washington, lb. 175.

Dec. 1864.]

LEVY COURT V.

CORONER.

Argumant for the Levy Court, plaintiff in error.

ing said court shall be entitled to the same compensation they now
receive for their attendance in the Circuit Court. iNo one
ever doubted that, under this section, the fees of jurors and
witnesses in the Criminal Court were to be paid by the
United States, although it is not so expressed. But the
language of this section is not more pointed, in that direction, than that of the eighth section, referring to jurors and
witnesses in cases of inquests. " There shall be hereafterpaid,"
for services in cases of inquest, "the same fees and compensation as are now paid" for similar services in the Circuit Court.
Shall be paid by whom? Surely by the same paymaster
as now pays those. If it had been intended otherwise,
would not the act have said distinctly, "there shall be hereafter paid by the Levy Court (or by some one else) the same
fees as are now paid by the United States?" Looking at the
acts of Congress alone, who can designate the Levy Court
any more than the corporation of Washington or Georgetown, as the source of payment? There is, perhaps, scarcely
an act of Congress fixing the compensation of any officer,
which designates the Treasury of the United States as the
source of payment more distinctly than this. In most cases
the language is, that such officer's compensation shall be,
or, that he shall receive, be entitled to, or 'paid, such and
such amounts. It may, indeed, be asserted, generally, that
when Congress directs money to be paid, it is to be paid
out of the Federal Treasuryj unless something different is
expressed, particularly where the law containing the direction clearly contemplates such payment from the Treasury,
in regard to its principal subject-matter.
It will be argued, perhaps, that when the law of 1838
passed, the coroner's fee on inquests was, under existing
laws, chargeable to the county; and that a general enactment, adding to his fees, is to be construed as making them
payable from the same quarter, and as re-enacting the exist.
ing law, with reference to the new fees.
But the fact that one sort of fee-a certain amount of
tobacco-was payable to the coroner by the county, does
not justify the inference that the fees given to him by this act,

Lxvy CouRT v. CORONER.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the Levy Court, plaintiff in error.

and which, for similar services, were always paid to the
marshal by the United States, were to be paid by the county
also. On the contrary, the fact that these fees were not
charged to the county under the old law, rather forces us to
infer that they were not intended so to be under the new.
The fees which the coroner was entitled to, under the act
of 1838, were construed to be such as the marshal received
for summoning, swearing, and impanelling jurors, and swearing witnesses, and returning inquisitions. And as the United
States paid these to the marshal, the fair inference is, that they
meant to pay them to the coroner for similar services, rendered in the interest of public justice in this seat of exclusive
Congressional dominion. Especially will this be regarded as
the case when u e consider that the provision in question is
found in a law, the main scope and object of which was to
create a new tribunal, all the expenses of which are confessedly chargeable to the United States.
Again, the argument in question is inapplicable to the
allowances to jurors and witnesses, which constitute the
most important part of this claim. The county paid nothing
to jurors and witnesses on inquests before the act of 1838,
and to infer that Congress meant to impose the burden of
their compensation on the county because a certain coroner's fee was theretofore chargeable to the county, is to
draw a conclusion wider than the premises.
Again, if the existing law is referred to and adopted by
the act of 1838, as to the new allowances to the coroner, it
must be the whole and not a particular part of it. The act
of 1779 does not make the coroner's fee payable directly by
the Levy Court, but directs that it shall be paid out of the
goods and chattels of the person dead, if any there be, otherwise to be levied by the commissioners of the county. Now,
did Congress mean the new fees of the coroners, and the fees
of julors and witnesses, to be paid out of the estate of the
deceased, and was each juror and witness to have a separato
cause of action against the estate, and, that resource failing,
a separate ground for a mandamus, or other proceeding,
against the Levy Court? Congress would hardly have left

Dec. 1864.]

LEVY COURT v.

CORONER.

Opinion of the court.

all these, questions thus uncertain, had they -meant to,.incorporate the Maryland act of 1779 into, their own act,of 1838;
and theirsilence shows that they had no reference to the act
of 1779, but meant simply to refer to their own existing
legislation, as to the fees and allowances in suits in court;
and to extend the benefit of it to the cases of, inquest.
111. The courtbelow disallowedth e coroner's 'claim for,
fees; in certain cases in which the inquests were illegally
held, but allowed his disbursements to-jurors and -witnesses-in
the same cases. If the- inquests were, illegallyiheld, so.that
the coroner could not claim compensation for-his services,
how could his. disbursements, upon, these illegal-inquests give,
him a legal claim for money laid out and. expended? If his
time and labor were given at the, risk of, losing, them, somust his payments have been made at hisown risk,
Xr. J

.

Bradley, contra-

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinioiof the-court-,
1. The first question which arisesdi this, case, is--whether
the, Levy Court of, W,ashington County' has a legal ,capacity-.
to be sued, in a court of justice.
The Levy Court is the body charged with the adninistration of the ministerial and financial duties, -of Washington
County. It is chargedwith the, duty of laying. out, and-repairing roads, building bridges,, and keeping, them in-good
order, providing poor-houses, and the general care, ofithe.
poor; and,-with laying and collecting the taxes which are,
necessary to enable it to discharge these, and other:duties),
and to pay the other expenses of the- county. It-has the.
capacity-to make contracts -in,reference- to,any of these, matters, and. to. raise money to meet these, contracts., It. has
perpetualsuccessiorn Its; functions are ,thosewhieh, in the
several States, are performed -by "county commissioners,',
"overseers of the poor," "county supervisors," and similar
bodies with-other designations. Nearly all the functions of
these various bodies, or of any of them, reside in the Levy
0ourt of Washington. It is for all financial and ministerial.

LEVY

COURT v.

CORONER.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

purposes the County of Washington. If not a corporation in
the full sense of the term, it is a quasi corporation, and can
sue and be sued, in regard to any matter in which, by law,
it has rights to be enforced, or is under obligations which it
refuses to fulfil. This principle, a necessary one in the enlarged sphere of usefulness which such bodies are made to
perform in modern times, is well supported by adjudged
cases.*
2. We are next called upon to determine, whether the
fees of the coroner of Washington County, and of the jurors
and witnesses who attend at his summons upon the inquests
held in the county, and which cannot be made out of the
estate of the decedent, are by law payable by the Treasury
of the United States, or by the Levy Court of said county.
It is contended by counsel for plaintiff in error, that
these fees are payable out of the public treasury. The
main reason on which the claim is founded is, that the fees
mentioned in the third section are confessedly paid from
that source. Hence it is argued that all the fees embraced
in the same act, are by necessary intendment, payable from
the same source, unless a contrary intention is expressed.
And in support of this view, counsel says: "No one ever
doubted that under this section" (the third) "the fees of
jurors and witnesses in the Criminal Court were to be paid
by the United States, although it is not so expressed."
It may be asked if the act does not express that these fees
are to be paid out of the public treasury, upon what principle is it so universally conceded that they are to be thus
paid? The answer is, because they were paid by the United
States before the passage of that law; and while the lawmakers found it necessary to provide that officers, witnesses,
and jurors, rendering services in a new court, of the same
kind which they had formerly rendered in the Circuit Court,
should receive the same compensation, they took it for
* Inhabitants, &c., v. Wood, 13 Massachusetts, 192; Bradley v. Case, 8
Scammon, 608; Overseers of Pittsburg v. Overseers of Plattsburg, 18 Johnson, 407; Overseers, &c., v. Birdsale, 1 Cowen, 260; Jansen v. Ostrander,
Id. 670; Commonwealth v. Green, 4 Wharton, 598.

Dec. 1864.]

LEvY

COURT V.

CGRONER.

Opinion of the court.

granted that the compensation would come from the same
quarter as before.
An extension of this reasoning to the fees provided in the
eighth section, where Congress desires to increase the compensation of the coroner, leads us to the conclusion that
these fees were also to be paid from the same source they
were formerly, namely, the Levy Court. It seems to us that
the inference from the fact, that Congress made no mention
of the source of payment for these fees, is that they did not
intend to make any change in the rule on that subject. In
regard to the fees payable to the coroner for his own services, there appears to be no room for doubt. And although
the fees allowed to witnesses and jurors owe their existence
to this act, and were therefore never before payable, either
by the Levy Court, or by the United States Treasury, we
cannot doubt that they must follow in that respect the fees
of the coroner. They relate to the same kind of service,
rendered in the same cases, and are provided for in the
same sentence of the act which increases his fees. It would
require positive language in the act to enable us to hold
that while the coroner's fees for an inquest are payable by
the Levy Court of the county, those of the jurors and witnesses summoned to serve on the same occasion, are to be
paid by the Treasury of the United States.*
We are, therefore, of opinion that the fees allowed by the
eighth section of the act of 1838, which cannot be made out
of the estate of the deceased, should be paid by the Levy
Court of Washington County.
3. Certain fees paid by the coroner to witnesses and jurors
were allowed by the court, in cases where the fees for his
own services were disallowed on the ground that the inquests were held in cases not provided for by law.
It is alleged for error, that the sums paid by him to witnesses and jurors in these cases were allowed him.
The eighth section of the act already quoted says, that
See Attorney-General Cushing's opinion, 6 Opinions of Attorneys-General, 561.

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. SOUTTER.

Esup. Ct.

Syllabus.

these fees shall be allowed "to witnesses and jurors who
may be lawfully summoned." It would be a very forced
construction of this provision, as well as unjust, to hold that
this lawfulness depends upon any other fact than the regular
service of the summons by a lawful officer. The jurors and
witnesses are compelled, when thus summoned, to obey the
writ. They have no right to consider whether the summons
issued on a proper state of facts as they might appear to the
coroner, nor the means of deciding it, if they had the right.
When witnesses and jurors thus summoned actually attend,
they are entitled to their fees. It can make no difference in
the justice or legality of the claims whether they are presented by the witnesses and jurors to the Levy Court, or
whether they are first paid by the coroner and presented by
him. He loses enough by his mistake in judgment, when
he is refused compensation for his Own services, without
being compelled to lose what he has advanced for the public
service.
We discover no error in the record, and the judgment of
the Circuit Court is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

MfILWAUKIE AND MINNESOTA RAILROAD COMPANY AND
FLEMING, APPELLANTS, V. SOUTTER, SURVIVOR.

1. Though a court below is bound to follow the instructions given to it by a
mandate from this, yet where a mandate has plainly been framed, as
regards a minor point, on a supposition which is proved by the subsequent course of things to be without base, the mandate must not be so
followed as to work manifest injustice. On the contrary, it must be
construed otherwise, and reasonably.
2. The appointment or discharge of a receiver is ordinarily matter resting
wholly within the discretion of the court below. But it is not always
and absolutely so.
Thus, where there is a proceeding to foreclose a mortgage given by a
railroad corporation on its road, &c.-along and actively worked roadka sort of property to a control of which a receiver ought not to be appointed at all, except from necessity), and the amount due on the mortgage is a matter still unsettled and fiercely contested, the appointment

