Dec. 1864.]

EX PARTE FLEMING.
Statement of the case.

should be null in case the vessel sailed before the master
received advices, it must be assumed that they would have
said so, "in clear and unanbiguous terms."
The truth is, they intended no such thing, but the theorj
here adopted spea:s the true intent and meaning of the contract.
Pursuant to these views I think the judgment should be
Affirmed.
NESON, J., also dissented.

Ex PARTE FLEMnDQ.
A party asking this court for a mandamus to an inferior court to make a
rule on one of its ministerial officers, as the marshal, must show clearly

his intqiest in the matter w]liqh he presents a the groi;d ef his application.

THE La'Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company., a railroad company of Wisconsin, jhad mortgaged its road and
other property to secure certain negotiable bonds which it
had issued. The bonds not being paid, a bill of foreclosure
was filed in the -DistrictCourt of the United States for the
Wisconsin district, the only Federal court then in that State,
and which court had at that time Circuit Court powers.
The railroad, &c., was sold by the marshal, who reported
his sale to the District Court. The sale was confkined by
that court and the purchaser placed in possession.
About the time, however, when this report and confirmation was made, Congress passed certain acts establishing
a Circuit Court for the Wisconsin district, transferring to
the new tribunal, with certain reserationsand limitations, the
powers which had previously been exercised by the District
Court. The extent, however, of the reservations and limitations above referred to was a matter not absolutely above
question. However, this court, in a case decided at the last

Ex P &IRTEFLEMING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

term, in reference to a part of the same suit now brought
forward, had adjudged that the reservations and limitations
were not of as extensive operation as was then contended by
counsel that they were, and that certain orders made by the
-DistrictCourt in this same proceeding were void; the right
to make them having passed by the acts of Congress to the
new tribunal.*
In this state of enactments and decision on thepm, one
Fleming, conceiving that the right to confirm or set aside
the sale above mentioned, had also passed to the Circuit
Court, petitioned that court for an order on the marshal to
report to it the sale which had been made by that officer
under the decree of the District Court.
He set forth in his petition that he was the equitable
owner of certain of the bonds (describing them by number),
to secure which the company had made its mortgage; which
bonds he showed that he had bought of one I. G. Weed.
It appeared, however, by documents which he annexed to
his petition and referred to, that when the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Railroad was about to be sold under the decree
of foreclosure, a number of its creditors formed themselves
into a consociation, with a view of buying it in, and of reorganizing the road with a new name, that of the Mfilwaukie
and St. Paul Railway. These creditors, acting for themselves and all who should become "assentents," and making
in writing a scheme of reorganization, to which other creditors might assent,-appointed certain persons, Seymour and
others, to act as agents and trustees in the whole matter
of all persons who chose to deliver their bonds to them for
use in the contemplated purchase. This scheme of reorganization made Seymour and the others agents of all the
"assentents," giving them power "to do any and all things
which they deem for the benefit of the holders as fully as
they might do if personally present;" and authorizing them
"in relation to all matters, exigencies and things not herein
* Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad Company, 1 Wallace, 405, where the
acts of Congrecs, &c., may be seen.

Dee, 1864.]

Ex

PARTE FLEMING.

Argument for Fleming.

specifically provided for to exercise a liberal discretion, except to oblige us personally for the payment of money."
Weed was an "assentent," and deposited his bonds, getting
in return a certificate of interest in the embryo Milwaukie
and St. Paul Railway Company. The La Crosse and Milwaukie was sold under the decree of foreclosure. The
agents, &c., purchased it, and it was now reorganized as the
St. Paul and Minnesota Railway Company; the managers
of that company being put, on confirmation of the sale, into
possession of the road. All this, as it was to be collected
from Fleming's petition and the documents annexed to it,
was prior to his purchase of the bonds from Weed. In fact,
the date of his purchase, as stated by him (September 26,
1863), was after the marshal's sale and the confirmation by
the District Court.
Being dissatisfied with the sale as made by the marshal
and confirmed by the District Court, Fleming petitioned
the Circuit Court for the order as already mentioned. That
court refused the order.
Mr. Capenter, counsel of -eming, now moved this court for
a mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court, commanding them to make such a rule on the marshal as had been
prayed for and refused. The application to this court set
forth that the marshal had sold, or pretended to sell, property belonging to another road, and not decreed to be sold,
and that the District Court had pretended to confirm the

same; but alleged that the District Court had no jurisdiction
over the cause for any purpose whatever, the cause having
been transferred to the Circuit Court; that the pretended
confirmation of the sale was void; that the sale remained,
therefore, in law unconfirmed; and that no steps could be
oaken to complete the foreclosure of the mortgage and protect the rights of the petitioner as a holder of bonds secured
by the mortgage, except by having said sale reported, as it
ought to be, to the Circuit Court.
Mr. Cowdrey. as amicus curie, submitted a brief, suggest-

Ex.

PARTE FLEMING.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ing that no proper interest was shown in Fleming to have
what he asked for even if he had merits in fact; and arguing
that, for various reasons which he set forth, no merits could
exist; a matter, however, this last one, which the court,
disposing of the case in limine, did not touch.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered its opinion.
The petitioner does not show that he has such an interest
in the matter as would justify the court to permit him to
interfere. He describes himself as equitable owner of certain bonds made by the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad
Company. These bonds were secured by a mortgage; and
it was in a suit brought to foreclose that mortgage that the
sale was had of which he complains. The owner of these
bonds, while the foreclosure proceedings were in progress,
was Weed, who had deposited them with the agents of a
company, which proposed to use them in buying the said
road, at the sale under the decree of foreclosure. These
agents were invested by Weed with an absolute and full
power to use the bonds in any manner, so that no money
was required of Weed towards the purchase. The sale was
made, and 'the road purchased as proposed. These bonds
were used in the purchase. The sale was confirmed by the
District Court and the purchasers placed in possession.
Long after all this was done, as the petitioner alleges, by
purchase from Weed he became the equitable owner of the
bonds. Who was the legal owner, and what were the relative rights .of the equitable and legal owners, or how any
one could be the owner when the bond had been cancelled
or absorbed in paying for the road, we are not informed.
We deem it sufficient to say that the petitioner, who had
no interest in the matter at the time of the sale and con.
firmation, shows no right now to disturb what the parties
who were interested have acquiesced in.
MOTION OVERRULED.

* See spra, p. 609, Minnesota Company v. St. Paul Company.

