Dec. 1864.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Syllabus.

mortgaged all their property, real and personal, and all their franchises.
The court held that the rolling stock acquired subsequently to the execution
of the mortgage belonged to the mortgagee. The court say, "The object
of the act being to give the bondholders a substantial and available security
for their money, and a preference over other creditors not previously
secured, can only be answered by so construing the law authorizing the
mortgage as to give the bondholders security upon the road itself, as the
general subject-matter of the mortgage, and upon the changing and shifting
property of the road as part and parcel, by accession, of the thing mortgaged."
In _Phillips v. Winslow, in Kentucky, it was held that, in equity, the
rolling stock acquired subsequent to the execution of the mortgage, passed
as an accession or fixture.
In Redfield on Railways,* it is said, indeed, that rolling stock is an accessory, though not a fixture. The distinction is, perhaps, one of words. In
the strict technical sense of the word, as used in the old cases, rolling stock
is not a fixture; but within the reason and philosophy of the modern cases
it would seem to be so. If it must not be called a fixture, in deference to the
old cases, it is yet an accessory of that sort, which has every element of one;
and to be regarded accordingly, however named.
The conclusion is, that rolling stock, put and used upon a railroad, passes
with a conveyance of the road, even without mention or specific descripfion.

THE FoSSAT OR QUICKSILVER MINE CASE.
1. An appeal lies to this court from a decree of the District Court for
California, in a proceeding under the act of 14th of June, 1860 (12 Statutes at Large, 83), commonly called the Survey Law.
2. If no appeal from such a decree be taken by the United States, they
may appear in this court as appellees, but cannot demand a reversal or
change of the decree.
8. If a California land claim has been confirmed by a decree of the District
Court under the act of 3d of March, 1851 (9 Statutes at Large, 631), and
the decree of confirmation fixing the boundaries of the tract stands
unreversed, a survey under it is the execution of that decree, and must
conform to it in all respects.
4. The Survey Laiv of 14th of June, 1860, gives the District Court no power
to amend or change the decree of confirmation.
5. When the title-papers designate the beginning-place of a straight line,

ahd fix its course by requiring that it shall pass a known and ascertained point to its termination at a mountain, such line cannot be
varied by the fact that a rough draft (a Mexican diseffo) on which it is
* Page 576, note.

THE F0SSAT CASE..

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
drawn, was not true at all to scale, and that on it the line strikes two
ranges of mountains in such a way as to leave certain unnamed elevations on the draft, which, with more or less plausibility, it was conjectured, but only conjectured, were meant to represent certain peaks
in nature well known, more to the east or west than by reference to
other objects on the draft they in nature hold.
ABOUT fifteen miles south from the southern end of th6
Bay of San Francisco, and separated from it by irregular
mountain slopes, lies a vale, called the Caffada de los (Japitancillos, or Valley of the Little Captains.* The northern
limit of this valley is an elevation called the Pueblo Hills;
hills picturesque enough; with nothing else, however, as
yet, specially to mark them. Descending or turning these,
the traveller is in the vale.
Along the south edge of the valley runs a ridge of hills,
range of mountains, or Sierra; for by each of these terms, as
by several others, the elevation might properly or improperly
be named. A value different from that of the Pueblo Ridge
belongs to these. These are filled with cinnabar of unrivalled
purity and richness. Here is the ALMADEN MINE; a mine,
that with others near it, the Enriqueta, San Antonio, &c.,
is estimated at $20,000,000,-the gem of quicksilver mines
in the New World, perhaps of the entire earth. This range
we call the Mining Range, or I]Yining Ridge. The opposite
map may assist a,comprehension.t
Immediately south of, or behind this Mining Range, and
detached from it, for the most part, by a steep, narrow,
* According to Mexican traditions, the valley was occupied in early
days by two Indians of very diminutive stature, whose bravery, however,
was so noted that each was the chief of his tribe. The name of "Little
Captains," came from them.
t The reader must be particular to note, that both on this map and on
the two more rough topographical sketches given in the case, the ordinary
rule of position in regard to maps is reversed. The top of the map as the
reader looks at it, or in the cases of the disefios at pp. 654, 656, as he turns
the book round to read what is on them, is the south; the bottom north;
the right the west, and the left the east. The two rough Mexican diseilos
were thus originally made; and conforming other maps to them has been
found more convenient than to adopt the more usual method. The compass
,n the sketch at p. 654, shows the thing.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FossAT

CASE.

Statement of the case.

broken, and irregular depression, gorge, or valley, rises a
ridge, range, or Sierra,different, as it was generally regarded,
SOUTH.

NORTH.

from the other, though by some persons regarded as the
main part of the same range. This elevation we designate
as the Azul Range, or Azul Ridge.*
* The portion between these two ranges, marked on the map "Ridge,"
must be distinguished both from the Azul and the Mining Ridge or Range.
ft, as stated directly, is a low, connecting ridge.

052

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The northernlimit of the valley we have said is the Pueblo
Hills. The top of these is about 1000 feet above the level
of San Francisco Bay, and 400 above the lowest part of the
valley immediately south of them.
The Mining Ridge at its greatest elevation rises several
hundred feet higher than the Pueblo Hills in front of it
across the valley. The Almaden Peak, one peak of this
ridge, at its eastern extremity, is 1500 feet above this level;
but the elevations of the ridge generally, as they extend
towards the west, diminish in height, and are broken by
various depressions, which permit easy access from the
valley on the north to the foot of the depression or valley
at the base of the Azul Range. The Azul Range, behind,
rears its head suddenly up, far above the Mining Range
before it, to the height of 4000 feet above the level of the
sea.
The Mining Range extends from east to west, and parallel
with the Azul Range. It runs about five miles. On its
slopes, as well on that towards the valley on the north, as on
that which makes one side of the ravine upon the south, the
best and most permanent grazing of the region is to be
found. At its widest place it is more than a mile and a
half from base to base, measuring directly through; and it
slopes off gradually at both ends. It is connected with the
Azul Range by a ridge four hundred feet lower than itself, and
txcnty-four hundred lower than the Azul Range. This is a
water-shed, on one side of which are the sources of the
Capitancillos and on the other those of the Alamitos. The
one stream runs between the two ranges, and turns to the
north at the western end of the Mining Range. The other
flows eastward, and turning the eastern end of the range as
the other had done the western, crosses the valley till its
course is arrested by the Pueblo Hills. Here, turning its
course to run along their base, it runs westward till it meet.
the other stream, and forming with it the Guadalupe River,
thE two discharge their waters through its channel into San
Francisco Bay.
At the place where the Alamitos strikes the Pueblo Hills,

Dec. 1863.]

THE

FoSSAT OASE.

Statement of the case.

it is joined by a mountain stream called the Arroyo Seco,* a
point which the reader must observe.
Nearly in the centre of this valley stands a little hill,Loma, as it is called in Spanish,-its side or skirt sloping
irregularly by a series of graceful undulations towards the
plain; its descending curve thus forming that which it required no great imagination to call a "lap."
Sueh is the valley, its boundaries and its features, as they
strike the eye.
In the eastern part of it, an old Mexican, Sergeant Don
Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa, fixed himself, about 1834, by leave
of Governor Figueroa. Adjoining him on the west, and
holding the western part, was another Mexican, Leandro
Galindo. They both built their houses and made their
chief improvements at the base of the Pueblo Hills; that is
to say, opposite and away from the Mining and the Azul
Ranges, their exposures to the south. Neither of them had
any title but such provisional ones as were usual in California
while it yet belonged to Mexico, in anticipation of a final
grant. In time Galindo went away, and was succeeded by
Justo Larios, who continued his improvements at the foot
of the Pueblo Hills, and granted a small piece of land, at
the western extremity of the hills and near the junction of
the Capitancillos and Alamitos, far off from the southern
ridges, to a certain Foster.t Larios and Berreyesa, however,
got along less amicably than had done Galindo and his
military neighbor. Berreyesa complained to the Governor
that Larios claimed land that was his, and had actually removed his house and set it on the dividing line. Larios,
he said, had "room to extend himself outside of the Gzfiada;" while he, Berreyesa, "had absolutely nowhere to enlarge." Larios, about the same time presented his petition,
* The meaning is a dry creek; this sort of arroyo being common in a
country of hills and plains; sometimes filled with water from the mountains; and sometimes a mere stony bed or "gulch."
In this case we have
o
two'arroyo secos; one of them, however, always designated as the "arroj
Teeo on the side of Santa Clara."
f Mtarked F. on the map at p. 651.

654

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sap. at

Statement of the case.-Diseflo of Berreyesa.

complaining of Berreyesa as overbearing, and disposed to be
rapacious. The matter disturbed the happy valley, and
threatened to become a feud. Governor Alvarado referred

its

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

both petitions to the Prefect, the highest judicial officer in
his department, and directed him to call the parties before
him, to confront them with one another, hear their proofs,
and to report the result of his investigation. The Prefect
did this. The parties came before him, and he succeeded in
conciliating them. Berreyesa produced a diselio, and with
that before them they agreed upon a division-line as follows:
"A straight line (una recta, &c.), from the angle which the
Alamitos forms with the Arroyo Seco, direction southward,
passing by the eastern base oit over the eastern skirt, on. lap (the
meaning was not clear), of the loma* (rumbo al ,ul LA FALDA
de la loma), in the centre of the valley TO THE Sierra."
Upon this disefo the Prefect traced a dotted line, which
showed what had been agreed upon. He then reported the
whole matter to the Governor; and the map, with the dotted line or "L-i-u-d-e-r-o" upon it, went to the archives. A
copy is opposite.
The controversy being settled, Larios petitioned the Governor for a grant. Alvarado made it. Thus it ran:
"I declare Justo Larios owner of the tract called ' Los Capitan-,illos,' bounded by THE Sierra, by the Arroyo Seco on the
side of Santa Clara, and by the tract of Berreyesa, which has
for boundary a line running from the junction of the Arroyo
Seco and the Alamitos, southward to THE Sierra, passing by the
eastern base, on. over the eastern skirt or lap (rumbo al Sul
FAILDA)

LA

of the loma, in the centre of the valley."

The grant was subject to these ordinary conditions:
"2d. He shall solicit the proper judge to give him juridical
possession in virtue of this decree, by whom the boundary shall be
marked out, &c.

"3d. The land herein referred to is one league of the larger
size, a little more or less. The judge who shall give the possession shall have it measured in conformity to law, leaving the
* Called indifferently "oma" and "lomita."

TimE FOSSAT CASL.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.-Disefio of Larios.

surrlus which remains to the nation for the purposes which
may best suit him."
(- _

Dec. 1863.]

TnE FoSSAlT CASE.
Statement of the case.

The disefio submitted by Larios appears on the page opposite.*
About this same time Berreyesa applied for a grant. His
petition prays for a grant of two sitos, to extend from the
dwelling-house of Larios up to the matadero,t "with all the
lomas (hills), thatpertain to the Caizada." The dispute having
been in the meantime settled, the Governor (August 20,
1842) made the concession. The grant recites the petition
of Berreyesa for a part of the place called the Caffada de los
(apitaneillos, bounded on the north by the lomas bajas of the
Pueblo San Jos6; on the south by the Sierra; on the west by
the rancho of Larios, which has for boundary the angle
formed by the Arroyo Seco, and that of the Alamitos course
south, the base (or skirt) of the hill situated in the centre
of the Cafiada until arriving at the Sierra: (el cual tiene por
lindero en angulo que forma el Arroyo Seco y el de los Alamitos, rumbo Sur, la falda de la loma, situada en el centro
de la Cafiada.)J
To the reader who has been able to get before his mind
the topographical nature of this place, it will be obvious that
questions might arise on the language of the grant to Larios. There were two ridges,'or two parts of one ridge; either
of which ridges, or parts of a ridge, might be styled a Sierra.
Sierra means a saw, and is a term applicable, in some sense,
to any range or ridge of hills, serrated as every one naturally is. In certain aspects-geologically, perhaps, or possibly, topographically may be as well-the Mining Range
was part of the Azul Range. Was it so within the meaning
of the Governor and grant? And bearing on this question
* The diseflo of Berreyesa is a very good one; better thar forty-nine in fifty

of the Mexican diseflios. That of Larios is less good, and justifies the title
uf "daub" given by Grier, J., supra, p. 448, to Mexican diselos in general.
The arroyo, or stream called Alamitos, on the map, at p. 651, is on this
called Capitancillos, as indeed it sometimes was; and the Arroyo Seco, on
the side of Santa Clara, called simply "Arroyo Seco," is made the west
boundary.
: The diseflo is supra, at page 654.
j Slaughter-house.
VOL. II.

42

658

TuE FOSSAT OASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

of philology would come perhaps another like it: "What
meant in law the word Caiiada?" Los Capitancillos was
a cafiada. But did this mean a valley so pure and simple
that no elevation whatever could break its plain? or might
it hold the Mining Ridge and let the raster Azul Heights
overtop the whole, and leave both plain and mine to insignificance below? These were questions which the United
States might have to litigate against Berreyesa and Larios
both united.
Then assuming the Mining Ridge to be part of the valley,
and the United States to be thus disposed of, there might
come another question-a question for Larios and Berreye~a,
after disposing of the Government, to litigate btween themselves. What did falda truly mean? It was a term the
very favorite of poetry; and with a sense elegantly answered-answered with truth as well-by our English "lap,"
or "skirt," or "fold."
Was this the sense in which the
old Mexican soldier and his lately litigious neighbor understood it, when making peace for themselves, they made
one of the greatest lawsuits which the world has seen for
others?
Even conceding falda to mean the base of the hill, and
that the parties bad meant to pass it, another question might
still arise upon the very lindero and map which at first seemed
so plain as to render question impossible. The line was to
pass the base; but did the diseo of Berreyesa, on which it
was traced, not show that it also meant to pass the Mining
Ridge (on this map plainly marked, and bearing the name
of lomas bajas), so as to leave much its greater part with
him. In nature could any line drawn from the junction of
the creeks south, past the base, do this? Then on his disefio
certain elevations were marked, both on the Mining Ridge
and on the Azul Ridge behind. One on the Mining Ridge
was especially prominent at its eastern end. Were there
any known peaks, in nature, on these ridges? If so, could
any line drawn as we have, mentioned be made and leave
them in that relative position where the disefio seemed ta
place them? The difficulty may be comprehended by any

Dec. 1863.]

THE FossAT CASE.
. Statement of the case.

reader who compares the map at p. 651, a map of the actual
related topography, with the diselio of Berreyesa, which gives
the parts, but in positions less relatively true.
On these niceties of language-on such constructions of
rude drafts-depended, in part, the question, whether this
Mine of the Almaden-the glory of the Cuchilla de la Mina,
or Cuchilla de la Mina de Luis Chabolla-shouldbelong to a
few citizens or to a whole republic; to the representatives
of Justo Larios, to those of "the sergeant Berreyesa," or to
the United States as national domain.
The grant was of the valley. The point of departure
was confessedly the junction of the creeks .Alamitos and
Arroyo Seco. A line running "southward" "to the Sierra"
Azul, ended the rights of the United States in the matter.
A line running "southward" at the base of the loma, as distinguished from one which should be sustained in its curving folds, ended Berreyesa's also. If, therefore, the line was
to be run to the Sierra Azul, and at the base of the loma,
south and straight from the union of the creeks, the mine
belonged to Larios, or to whoever might be his fortunate
successor.
The questions were worth a controversy.
By 1852, California was a State of the American Union, and
three-quarters of the property granted to Larios had become
vested in one Fossat; the remaining fourth (which was in
the direction of the mission property of Santa Clara, and at
the extreme west of the valley) being owned by the Guadalupe Mining Company.* Fossat now presented his petition
to the land commissioners appointed by the act of Congress
of March 8, 1851, to settle the respective rights of the United
States and claimants under the former Government to lands
in California, for a confirmation of his claims derived from
Larios. The board decided in favor of it, and the United
States appealed to the District Court; Berreyesa, however,
being no party to the specific proceedings.
* The quarter of a league conveyed to the company, is indicated on the
map at page 651, in shade.

THE, F0SSAT OASE.

[Sup. ot

Statement of the case.

That court, saying nothing whatever in its opinion on the
question of where the line meant to be fixed on by Larios and
Berreyesa would strike the Azul Range (if prolonged to that
extent) as respected the Almaden Mine, and as respected the
now known and actual topography, went into an argument
to show that it must at least come somewhere to that range,
and over the Mining Range; in other words, that the west
portion of the Mining Range, whatever that portion might
be, did not belong to the United States.
The court accordingly decided that the grant was good
for the place known as Los Capitancillos,bounded and described on the south by the Azul Range, as distinguished
from the lower hills or Mining Ridge; on the west (about
which there was no question) by Arroyo Seco on the side
of Santa Clara. The decree, then, went thus as respected the
eastern line:
"On the east by a line running from the junction of a certain
other rivulet, called Arroyo Seco, and the Arroyo de los Alamitos,
southward to the aforesaid main Sierra, passing by the point or
part of the small hill situated in the centre of the Cafiada, which
is designated in the expedientes and grants of Justo Larios and
Jos6 IReyes Berreyesa as ' la falda de la loma,' and crossing the
range of hills designated above as the Cuchilla de la .Mina,or
Cuchilla de la .Mina de Luis Chabolla, and in which are situated
the said Guadalupe, San Antonio, and iNew Almaden Mines, and
which is the same range of hills designated '. omas Bajas' on
the disefio or map in the aforesaid expediente of Josd Reyes Berreyesa, the said eastern line herein described being intended to
be the same line agreed upon as the line of division between the
lands of Justo Larios and Josd iReyes Berreyesa, as expressed in
the respective expedientes and grants of said Justo Larios and
Josb IReyes Berreyesa, and delineated by the dotted line on the
said disefio or map in the expediente of Josd Reyes Berreyesa;
in the location of the said line reference to be made to the description thereof in the said expedientes and grants, and the
delineation thereof on the said disefio or map in the expediente
of Jose Reyes Berreyesa, which expedientes, grants, and disefo,
')r map, are on file and in evidence in this case."

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
,tatement of the case.

The northern boundary of the tract was declared to be
that shown in the disefio or map of Larios; which was in
effect the stream, marked on his draft as the Arroyo Capitancillos, but on the map styled the Alamitos.
Confirmation was thus made of the whole tract granted
to Larios, with the exception of the two adjacent parcels
thereof lying on the westerly end of said tract, and claimed
by the Guadalupe [ining Company. This gave him a tract
of about a league and three quarters.
The court in its opinion noted, indeed, that only three of
the boundaries were designated in the grant, the southern,
the western, and the eastern; but inclined to think that the
description of the tract by name, as Los Capitancillos,a known
valley, and the delineation on the diserio of Larios of the two
ranges of hills within which it was contained, sufficiently
indicated the location of the northern boundary, the mention
of which was omitted in the grant; especially as the call was
for a league pocos mas o rnias,-aleague more or less.
From this decree the United States appealed to this court.*
This court considered that there was more weight in the last
point which the court had noted than the court itself gave
to it, and reversed that decree; Campbell, J., who gave the
opinion, remarking in different parts of it as follows:
"The District Court confirmed the claim of the appellee to
land limited by specific boundaries, and ascertained those boundaries, as they exist on the land, with precision. Under this
decree the grant to Larios includes seven thousand five hundred
and eighty.eight .Qo acres.t
"We concur in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners
and of the District Court, that affirms the validity of the grant
of the Governor of California to Justo Larios, and the regularity
of the conveyances through which the claimant deduces his
title."
The court here gave an account of the dispute between
Larios and Berreyesa, and of the settlement of it, and went on;
"The Governor granted the land to Larios, to be his property,
*

20 Howard, 413.

t About a league and three quarters.-RLu.

662

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

subject to the approval of the Departmental Assembly, and to
the performance of conditions.*
"The southern, western, and eastern boundaries of the land
granted to Larios are well defined, and the objects exist by
which those limits can be ascertained. There is no call in the
grant for a northern boundary, nor is there any reference to the
disefio for any natural object or other descriptive call to ascertain it. The grant itself furnishes no other criterion for determining that boundary than the limitation of the quantity, as is
expressed in the third condition. This is a controlling condition
in the grant. The delivery of juridical possession, an essential
ceremony to perfect the title in the land system of Mexico, was
to be accommodated to it. The disefio presented by the donee
to the Governor to inform him of his wants represents the quantity to be one league, a little more or less. This representation
is assumed to be true by the Governor, and it forms the basis on
which his consent to the petition is yielded.
"1He prescribes to the officer to whom he confided the duty of
completing the title to measure a specified quantity, leaving the
surplus that remains to the nation as preparatory to the delivery
of judicial possession to the grantee. The obligation of the
United States to this grantee will be fulfilled by the performance
of the executive acts which are devolved in the grant on the
local authority, and which are declared in the two conditions
before cited. We regard these conditions to contain a description of the thing granted, and in connection with the other calls
of the grant they enable us to define it. We reject the words,
' a little more or less,' as having no meaning in a system of location and survey like that of the United States, and that the
claim of the grantee is valid for the quantity clearly expressed
If the limitation of the quantity had not been so explicitly declared,
it might have been proper to refer to the petition and the disefio,
or to have inquired if the name, Capitancillos, had any signi.
ficance as connected with the limits of the tract, in order to give
effect to the grant. But there is no necessityfor additionalinquiries.
The grant is not affected with any ambiguity. The intention of the
Government of California is distinctly declared, and there is no
rule of law to authorize us to depart from the grant to obtain
evidence t:; contradict, vary, or limit its import.
Given on page 655.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

"The grant to Larios is for one league of land, to be taken
within the southern, western, and eastern boundaries designated
therein, and which is to be located, at the election of the grantee
or his assigns, under the restrictions established for the location
and survey of private land claims in California, by the executive
department of this government. The external boundaries designated in the grant may be declared by the District Court
from the evidence on file, and such other evidence as may be
produced before it, and the claim of an interest equal to three
fourths of the land granted is confirmed to the appellee.
"The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the ;ause is
remanded to that court with directions to enter a decree conforming to this opinion."
The case was again heard below, and on new evidence,
tending, most of it, to the subject of the southern boundary.
On the 18th of October, 1858, the District Court again gave
an opinion, and again made a decree. The opinion was a
further argument on the evidence, new and old alike, to
show that the Azul Range was the true south boundary,"the most important, if not the only point discussed," the
court says, "on the hearing," and which the court treat as
"the question to be determined." Nothing is argued about
the eastern boundary. The decree again decreed that the
grant was a valid one. Its southern and western boundaries
were in substance as already above set forth. The eastern
boundary was thus again disposed of.
"The eastern boundary is a-straight line commencing at the
junction of a certain rivulet, called Arroyo Seco, with the Arroyo de los Alamitos, and thence running southward to the
aforesaid main sierra or mountain range, passing by the point
or part of the small hill situated in the centre of the Cafiada,
which is designated in the expedientes and grants of Justo
Larios and Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa as ' la falda de la loma,' and
crossing the range of hills designated above as the 'uchilla
de la Mina,' or ' Cuchilla de la M~fina de Luis Ohabolla,' in which
are situated the said Guadalupe and New Almaden mines, and
which is the same range of hills designated 'Lomas Bajas,"on
,he diseio or map in the e-pediente of Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa on

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup.

Ot

Statement of the case.

file in the case, the said eastern line crossing, also, the said Arroyo de los Alamitos and terminating at the base of said main
sierra; and the said eastern line herein described, being intended
to be the same line agreed upon as the line of division between
the lands of Justo Larios and Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa, as expressed
in the respective expedientes and grants of said Justo Larios
and Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa, and delineated by the dotted line on
the said disefho or map in the expediente of Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa; and in the location of said line, reference is to be made
to the description thereof in the said expedientes and grants and
the delineation thereof on the said diseflo or map in the expediente of Josd Reyes Berreyesa, which expedientes, grants, and
disefio or map, are on file and in evidence in this case."
It was ordered that the fourth line should be run so as to
include one league only; and the title was confirmed on
that basis.
The United States again appealed to the Supreme Court;*
but a motion was made to dismiss the appeal because the
decree below was interlocutory. The court did dismiss the
appeal, and in the opinion say as follows:
"The court determined (when the case was here before),
'that a grant under which the plaintiff claimed land in California, was valid for one league, to be taken within the southern,
western, and eastern boundaries designated therein, at the election of the grantee and his assigns, under the restrictions established for the location and survey of private land claims in
California by the executive department of the Government.
The external boundaries of the grant may be declared by the
District Court from the evidence on file, and such other evidence
as may be produced before it; and the claim of an interest
equal to three-fourths of the land granted is confirmed to the
appellee.'
"This motion to dismiss the present appeal is resisted, because the inquiries and decrees of the Board of Commissioners
for the settlement of Private Land Claims in California, by the
Act of 3d of March, 1851, in the first instance, and of the courts
of the United States, on appeal, relate only to the question of
* 21 Howard, 445.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

the validity of the claim, and by validity is meant its authenticity, legality, and in some cases interpretation, but does not
include any question of location, extent, or boundary,-and that
the District Court has gone to the full limit of its jurisdiction in
the decree under consideration, if it has not already exceeded
it."
The court then examining this matter and declaring what
the admitted duties of the District Court were, adds:
"But in addition to these questions upon the vitality of the
title, there may arise questions of extent, quantity, location,
boundary, and legal operation, that are equally essential in determining the validity of the claim. In affirming a claim to
land under a Spanish or Mexican grant, to be valid within the
law of nations, the stipulations of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and the usages of those governments, we imply something
more than that certain papers are genuine, legal, and translative of property. We affirm that ownership and possession of
land of definite boundaries rightfully attach to the grantee."
And this court concludes its opinion thus:
"But, after the authenticity of the grant is ascertained in this
court, and a reference has been made to the District Court, to
determine the external bounds of the grant, in order that the
final confirmation may be made, we cannot understand upon
what principle an appeal can be claimed until the whole of the
dire3tions of this court are complied with, and that decree
made. It would lead to vexatious and unjust delays to sanction
such a practice. It is the opinion of the court that this appeal
was improvidently taken and allowed, and must be dismissed;
and that the District Court proceed to ascertain the external
lines of the land confirmed to the appellee, and enter a final
decree of confirmation of that land."
On the filing of this mandate of dismissal, the Surveyor..
General of California was ordered to survey the land confirmed in conformity with the decision of the District Court,
made 18th October. He made the survey, which was ap.
proved by the Surveyor-General, 18th December, 1860, and

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

filed it, with a map, in the court below, 22d January, 1861.
The survey and map, as was testified by the deputy surveyor
Hays, and one Conway, a clerk in his office, who assisted in
making it, was made in conformity with the decree whicb
they had before them. That surveyis indicated on the map,
at page 651, by a heavy connected line.
It appeared, also, that Berreyesa had at one time caused
a private survey to be made of his tract, and this survey
showed that the une lay essentially as marked by this heavy
connected line. Another made for the Guadalupe Mining
Company located it in the same way. A public survey,
made by Surveyor-General Hays, in 1855, located it also thus.
lNot long before the above-mentioned order of the District
Court was made, Congress passed the act of June 14, 1860,*
commonly called the "Survey Act," which authorizes the
District Court to allow persons not parties to the record to
intervene in matters of the survey and location of confirmed
private land claims, and to show the true location of the
claim. For that purpose they may produce evidence before
the court, and on such proof and allegations the court shall
render judgment. In regard to appeals, the whole language
is simply, "And no appeal shall be allowed from the order
or decree as aforesaid of the District Court, unless applied
for within six months."
The survey was accordingly ordered into court. It made
the Azul Range, as distinguished from the Mining Range,
the southern boundary. The eastern line was drawn, as the
reporter supposes,-for he never saw the plat,-from the
junction of the two creeks Seco and Alamitos south, past the
base of the loma; so leaving the mine on the land of Larios.
Berreyesa, Foster, and others, who had not been parties
to any of the immediate previous proceedings, now excepted
to it.
Berreyesa excepted because the western boundary of his
land constituted the eastern of that of Larios, "to wit, a line
beginning at the junction of the creeks Alamitos and Seco,
* 12 Stat. at Large, 83.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.

667

Statement of the case.

and running southerly to the main Sierra and Sierra Azu],
crossing the Lomas Bajas in the manner shown by the disezo of
the land granted to said Berreyesa; whereas the survey con.
firmed in this case locates the eastern line so as to include
a tract of land within the exterior lines of the land granted
to Berreyesa, and not granted to the said Larios."
Foster excepted because the tract being carried over far to
the south, and being confined to one league, his small tract
was left out. So, on similar grounds, did other parties who
subsequently abandoned their exceptions.
The United States, by the District Attorney, entered a
formal appearance, but made no objection to the survey at
any stage of the hearing, suggested no argument, and offered
no evidence against it.
Fossat, who represented Larios, came in to protect the
survey, averring that it was right, and should stand.
The District Court,-considering that no decision had ever
yet been made by it as to the eastern boundary; not understanding, apparently, that any supposed decision with regard
to that line had been passed on by the Supreme Court in
either of the decisions quoted in the preceding part of this
statement; conceiving further, it would seem, that under the
new act of 1860 (the "Survey Act," passed after the second
decision in this court was made), the court below might, on
the intervention of Berreyesa, then for the first time heard
in this particular cause, determine the eastern line, irrespective of any decree obtained by either party in a proceeding which it considered as a proceeding between himself only and the United States,-proceeded to settle the
eastern line; and in some degree, it was argued, to treat all
things de novo. A great deal of new evidence was taken in
regard to this eastern line; evidence bearing also on the
,southern line. The scope of much of the former was to
show entire error of scale in Berreyesa's disefio, and that
regulating the eastern line by certain objects, clearly enough
indicated on this disefio, other than the loma, the line could
not be drawn south from the junction of the creeks past the
Ioma to the point where that disefio showed that it meant to

THE

FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

come. The matter will be understood better further on in
the case. The result of the whole was that, affirming the
Mining Range as the south boundary; that is to say, carrying
the tract to the Azul Range, as being the true Sierra, the
District Court now made an east line, somewhat such as is
exhibited by the light dotted line on the map at p. 651.
The line began at the junction of the two creeks, thence ran
south to the eastern base of the loma; thence south 550 west
to a point where another angle was made; thence south 34'
west to the Azul Range. The effect was, that while Larios
or his representative got some part of the Mining Ridge, the
eastern line was made to reach that ridge at a point so far
west that the LAIADEN MINE, the great object of contest, and
the largest portion of the ridge, fell into the tract of Berreyesa.
From this decree the claimants under Larios appealed to
this court. So did Foster. The United States took no appeal,
and the representatives of Berreyesa, of course, were desirous
to maintain the decree.
The whole case was now before this court,-the case as it
was presented by all the evidence taken in all the proceedings below. This was the case viewed as an original case.
But on this occasion it was here also, of course, as it might
be affected by what had been decided in it on the two different occasions when it was here before on appeal, and
when the court had expressed itself, and had given mandates, such as have been previously stated in this report.
The effect of the District Court's own two decisions on its
power to decide further was also to be considered; its power,
perhaps, under the Survey Law of 1860, to change the decree
of confirmation.
As an original case,-the detached parts in which it presented itself below, and on the three different hearings being
brought together, and all presented in sequence,-the matter
was essentially thus: the disefos of both Larios and Berreyesa, the last with the L-i-n-d-e-r-o upon it, being, of course,
parts of the case everywhere.
1. As to the southern boundary: Witnesses were brought to

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

show that the ranges were one sierra, and so that the tract
did not include any part of the Mining Ridge. Mr. Veach,
a geologist, swore thus:
"The Mining Ridge is detached from the main mountain by a
stream that runs from east to west, making a sharp hill between
the higher mountain and the plain; but I look upon this as only
a bench-like portion of the mountain, which has been separated
from it by the gorge cut down by the stream. The reason why
I so consider it is the gorge-like character of the valley of the
little stream, and the sharpness of the ridge, and the elevation
of the bottom of the gorge so considerably above the level of the
valley; it is, I should judge, 300 feet above it. From geological
considerations, also, Ishould consider this ridge clearly and distinctly a portion of the mountain. The ridge does not present
the spur-like character which would show its detachment from
the mountain, for it runs parallel with the general course of the
latter."
Mr. Matheson, engaged in the public surveys of the United
States, testified in the same way:
"I do not consider that there is a main sierra separate from
any other portion of the sierra. The Mine Ridge is merely a
spur, and connected by a ridge with the main sierra. You can
travel from the valley right up to the highest point of the ridge."
Referring to the disefio of Larios (p. 656), it will be noted
that his tract, as there indicated, came to a range of hills
called Sierra del -Encino (" range of the live-oak," or, less accurately, perhaps, in a grammatical point of view, "live-oak
range.")*
Oaks, it was shown, grew everywhere about here. "There
are a considerable number of them," said one witness, "on
the mountains back of the Mine Ridge, and also on the plains

north of it. There are also a considerable number of them found
generally on the northern slope of the ridge, and presenting a
'ery beautiful green appearance."
* The plural would be Sierra d6eos DEinos.

THE FoSSAT OASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Then there was on this disefio but one sierra indicated.
The tract did not include it by passing over to any other
behind it. No second range was marked. No streams of
any kind answering to any in nature ran on this diseho at
the foot of the range, though streams did, in fact, run at the
foot of the Azul Range. At the foot of the Pueblo Hills,
where a stream ran, in fact, one ran also on the disefio.
Moreov. the residence of Larios-that in which he had
succeeded Galindo-was, like the home of Berreyesa, on the
north edge of the tract, at the foot of the Pueblo Hills.*
Larios was living in this part of the valley. No tract of one
league, not very irregular in shape, could include the Mining
Ridge without excluding nearly all the land along the base
of the Pueblo Hills. The maps, moreover, reversed the ordinary law which governs the construction of maps, and
make the top represent the south, the bottom the north, the
right the west, and the left the east; hence, an inference that
the point from which everything was viewed was the north
edge of the valley. An experiment showed, also, that the
disefios of Berreyesa and of Larios were much the same in
size; and taking the two, and putting them edge to edge in
the manner of "Indentures,"-fltting the edge which indicated the western side of Berreyesa's tract against that
which indicated "'ie eastern side of that of Larios, the Pueblo Hills, as marked on each, being fitted and made the
starting-point,-that the Sierra del Encino of the draft of
Larios ranged itself opposite to the Lomas Bajas (the Mining Ridge, undoubtedly) of Berreyesa's, and not against
the Sierra Azul, so plainly, on the draft of Berreyesa, distinguished from it.t
On the other hand, witnesses showed that, in many re* On Berreyesa's disero, as the reader will see, these hills marked as
ItLomas Bajas, para la parte del plan del Pueblo." On that of Larios they
are styled simply "L-o-m-a-s B-a-j-a-s."
t From the necessity of getting the whole of both disefos in the page,
and so of making the scale of Berreyesa small enough to let in the "Cierra
&3ul," this thing is not so well shown by the two diselios given to the
readAr The scale of Bcrreyesa's is the smaller.

Dec. 1863.]

Tim FoSSAT

CASE.

671

Statement of the case.

spects, the two ridges might be considered different, and by
many were so; that the separation, if sometimes called a
gorge or ravine, was as often, or oftener, called a valley.
Then one witness, an American, who had lived since about
1835 in California, and near the place, testified that the
Mining Ridge had been known by the name of Cuchlla de
la Mina, and as a thing separate from the Azul Range, often
known by the name of SierraSanta Cruz, the former beiug
connected with the latter only by a ridge at one place. It was
shown also, too, that Larios was quite illiterate, "unable to
handle a pen," and that his disefo had been made for him
by a friend of his named Rios, from oral description given
him at Monterey, away from the land, Rios himself never
having been on the land, nor knowing anything about it.
He had not, however, drawn that of Berreyesa. The testimony-that of photography included-showed, moreover,
and this past any question, that while the elevations hereabouts, and the plain, also, were fruitful in oaks, there was
upon the Azul Range one umbrageous oak of venerable
years and extraordinary size, standing on a spur of the mountain, projecting boldly from the mass of the range, and presenting so clear an outline to an observer in certain directions as to be visible for fifteen miles; a prominent feature
in the landscape. It was testified, in fact, to be so well known
to the people of the neighborhood as to have acquired the
name of "Encino Coposo de la Sierra Azul." Further, on the
disefio of Berreyesa the Mining Ridge was styled Lomas
Bajas, which means "Low Hills ;" and the term Sierra was
given to the Azul Range,-" Cierra Azul." Hence, ground
for an inference that the term "Sierra," in the parlance of
that place and time, had become appropriated to the Azul
Range, and that "Lomas Bajas," or Low Hills, was the
common title of the Mining Range.
The L-in-d-e-r-o, it will be observed, crosses the Mining
Ridge, and goes to the Azul Mountains, here designated
Sierra Azul.
2. Then as to the eastern boundary. In favor of the claim

THE

FossAT

CASE.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.

of Larios, there of course was the L-i-n-d-e-r-o and its history.
On the other hand, and in favor of Berreyesa and of the
line as settled by the decree below, the testimony of Mr.
W. J. Lewis, an acute-minded and well-educated surveyor,
went to prove that the compass on the diserio of Berreyesa
was erroneous to the extent of 450, the north point being
represented that much to the eastward; that the actual position of the loma was much more to the east, and near to
the junction of the Alamitos and Seco than that disefio indicates; that standing at the junction of the creek, and looking
south, the range of the A-zul did present one peak at the
west, Mount Umunhum, higher than any near it; and one
peak at the east, Mount Bache, much higher than any near
it, and higher even than Mount Umunhum.*' Two elevations, answering or not answering this character, are presented, it will be seen, on the disefio of Berreyesa. So in
nature at the Mine, which is near the eastern end of the
Mining Ridge, there is a peak known as the Mine Peak,
and from that peak there is a continuous descent to the
Alamitos Creek. On the diseho of Berreyesa, at the eastern
edge of the Lomas Bajas, or Low Hills' (meant confessedly
to represent the Mining Ridge, in some part, or to some
extent), there was or was not, at its east end, such an elevation and descent. Then it was shown by Mr. Lewis-who
had spent months here, and made surveys and observations
of every natural feature of the region-that while indicating
different objects very well, the disefio was drawn without
any reference to scale whatever; relative position being
wholly misrepresented. The house of Larios, for example,
which was in fact thirty feet wide, was made to cover a ffth
of the width of the valley, there a mile wide.
Mr. Lewis, accordingly, thought that he could see in the
dise~o an intent to represent the three peaks, especially the
* Mount tUmunhum is 3440 feet above the sea; Mount Bache, 3780 feet,
or 350 feet more. The position of Mount Bache is not, from want of space,
accurately indicated on the map at p. 651. It is sufficiently so, however,
to explain things. In nature it stood more to the east and south.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

two former.* Assuming this to be so, and comparing the disefo
with nature, there would be a great error. In nature, less
than one mile in length lay eastward of the division based
on the L-i-n-d-e-r-o, and over four and a half miles lay to
the westward; whereas, the part of the ridge represented on
Berreyesa's diselo as lying to the westward of the line,
would be but five-sixths of a mile, and all the rest was east,
on Berreyesa's own land. Hence, the loma, or lomita, not
being shown in a position true to scale, an inference that
Mount iUmunhum-an unmistakable object, and the Mining
Peak another-should govern the location in preference to
the lomita, nearer the starting-point and less definite, as this
surveyor conceived. The difficulty was that, by the terms of
the grant, the line was to be drawn at the fahdx de la loma,
which the interests of Larios interpreted "base of the hill."
If the line could cross the hill, going over its "skirt" or
"lap" to a perfectly ascertained point at the other side of the
valley, a decree fixing the eastern line as Lewis fixed it
could be supported. The case as to the meaning of falda
was thus: one witness being Mr. Hopkins, "keeper of the
Spanish archives in the office of the Surveyor of the United
States for California, well acquainted with the Spanish language, and in the habit of translating documents;" who had
in fact made one translation of this grant.

Q. You have translated the word "falda" by the word "skirt;"
have you considered well the exact definition of the word "falda,"
and is it exactly expressed by the word used in your translation ?
A. I have carefully examined the definition of the word
"falda," as laid down in the standard lexicons of the Spanish
tongue. I have examined the word as used by ancient and
modern writers of the Spanish language, and I can think of no
word in the English language which more clearly or legitimately
* Mount Bache, as Mr. Lewis supposed, was meant to be designated by
the elevation over the letter C in "Cierra;" Mount Umunhum being at
the right of the same ridge, and the Mine Peak being over the letter L in
"Lomas Bajas."

VOL. I.

48

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
I arrive at this
expresses the meaning than the word "skirt."
conclusion from the definitions that I find given to the word in
the Spanish lexicons, and from its use by celebrated Spanish
writers.
Q. In the sense in which you use the word "skirt," to what
part of a hill or loma is it to be applied?
A. It is to be applied to the lower or inferior part of the hill
or loma.
Q. Have you made any translation of the definition of the
word "falda" given in any lexicon? if yea, please produce that

translation.
A. I have made a translation of the definition of the word
"falda," as laid down in the Royal Dictionary of the Spanish
Academy, dedicated to Don Felipe V, and printed at Madrid in
the year 1732. Here it is:
" Fada. That part of the long dress from the waist down, as the skirt or
blouse of women.
" 'Queen Mary promptly dismounted, and, raising the edges of her skirt (faldal
and the sleeves of her dress, drew a hunting-knife from her belt, and with her own
bands opened the stag.
"' The great queen was riding on a small ass, with the boy-god (nino dios) in hel
lap (faldae).'
,"Fada. It is very commonly applied to that which drags from the afterpart of a dress worn either by a person holding high office, or as a symbol
of sorrow by mourners accompanying a funeral.
"' He carred the train (falda) of Mary, Queen of Soots, the bride of the Dauphin
Francis.'
"1Falda. By allusion, or metaphorically, is called that part of the hill or
mountain which falls or descends from the middle down. LAT. Montis
Radix.
"'They reached the skirt (falda) of a small hill. Naim was a small city situated
on the skirt (fada)of Mount Hermon.'
".Perrillo de fada (lap dog). The small pet dog, so called because women are so much attached to them that they usually keep them in their laps
(faldas) that they may not hurt themselves.
" 'I wager that you do not know why Apelles painted Ceres, the goddess of corn,
with a lap dog (prillodo faldas).' "

Q. Please give such examples of the use of the word "falda"
by Spanish writers as occur to you, and give the translation into
English of those passages in which the word is used.

Der- 1863.]

THE FoSSAT OASE.
Statement of the case.

A. The following I found some years ago:
The first is from Mlartin, a Spanish poet.
Iba congi6ndo flores
Y quarddndo en lafalda
Mi ninfa para hacdr fina Guirnalda," &c.

The translation of which is:
"IMylove was gathering flowers, and keeping them in her lap (fada)to
make a garden."

The second is from lose de Cadalso, a celebrated Spanish
scholar and poet:
"1Con pgcho humilde y reverente paso
Llegue 6 la sacrafada del Parnaso;
Y como en sueffos vi que llamaban
Desde la sacra cumbre, y me alentaban
Ovidio y Taso, a cuyo docto influjo
Mi numen estos versos me produjo."

The translation of which is:
"With humble breast and reverent step I reached the sacredfoot (fazda) of Par
nassus, and, as in dreams, heard calling me from the sacred summit, Ovid and Tasso,
who inspired me, and under whose wise influence my muse produced these verses."

The third is a translation made by Juan de Janrequi, I think
in the sixteenth century, from an Italian play. The following
is an explanation of these four lines: A romantic young shepherd was very much enamored of a beautiful shepherdess, who,
perhaps from a spirit of coquetry, treated him with scorn; the
young man took the disappointment so much to heart that he
madly threw himself from a neighboring precipice; and the lines
of the poet are a description given by an old hermit of the condition and place in which he found the young man:
"Yo me estaba junto a mi cueva, que vecina al vale, y casi al pie del gran col
lado yace, do formafalda su ladera enhiesta."
The translation of which is:

"I was at my cave, which lies near the valley and almost at the foot of the great
hill where its steep side forms a (falda) skirt."
The fourth is from Jovellanos, a poet of the eighteenth cen.

tury:

",De la Siniestra

orrilla un bosque ombrio
Hasta lafalda del vecino monte
Be extiende; tan ameno y delicioso
Que lo hubiera jazgado el gentilisimo
2forada de algun dios, 6 a los misterios
De las Silvanas Driadas guadado."

TiE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The translation of which is:
",From the left shore shady wood extends as far as the skirt of the neigh.
boring mountain, so pleasant and delicious that the pagan world might have
devoted it as the dwelling of some God, or to the mysteries of the sylvan
Dryads."
The fifth is from a geological report made by Antonio del Castillo, one of the professors in the Mining College of Mexico, in
relation to the quicksilver mine of Pedernal, and is as follows:
",La loma del Durazo esta unida por la parte del sur a otros de la misma
formacion que ella separadas por hondonadas o bajios de corta estension, y
limitadas al oriente por el mismo arroyo que pasa por la falda norte de la
primera."
The translation of which is:
"The hill of Durazo is united on the part of the south to others of the
same formation with it, separated by ravines of short extent, and limited on
the east by the same arroyo which flows by the northern skirt of the first."
Cross-examination.
Q. Have you any reason for supposing that the Spanish dictionary mentioned by you-the Royal Dictionary of the Spanish
Academy, dedicated to Don Felipe V, and printed at Madrid in
the year 1732-is the identical dictionary from which the native
Californians obtained their definition of the word "falda," or any
other words in use by them?
A. I have no reason for so supposing.

On the other hand, evidence from other poets, other dictionaries, and other prose writers, tended to prove that if
falda meant skirt, it meant the edge of the skirt, its extre.
mity as well as its higher folds.
In addition to all this evidence on both sides, of geologists,
surveyors, scholars, &c., photography and landscape painting
both were largely invoked for the cause of justice; and the
judges of this court being unable of course to visit the place,
three thousand miles away, which the judge below had actually done, sworn representations, the artists' oaths accompanying their work, were laid before this bench. To exhi.
bit these photographs and landscapes as part of the "case,"

Dec. 1863.]

THE FossAT CASE.
Statement of the case.

is beyond a reporter's art, as attained to up to this day.
The list below, if not giving to the reader an idea of the
topography as it existed in nature, will give him some idea
of the very special features of the case as it was exhibited
in this court, and bring excuse to the reporter if,
without the
reader's having them before him, the narrator has failed to
present the "1case" in its truest and clearest form; and with
those impressions from it which, after all, may have influenced the decision. Here they are, photograph and landscape alike,--the landscapes without their colors:
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Exhibit No. 1, Photographic View, taken near the junction of the two
creeks, looking westerly.
Exhibit No. 2, Photographic View, taken one-quarter of a mile below the
junction, looking southwesterly.
Exhibit No. 3, Photographic View of the eastern hill of the Lomita, taken
near the junction of the two creeks.
Exhibit No. 4, Photographic View, showing part of the valley and Pueblo
Hills.
Exhibit No. 6, Photographic View, showing continuation of valley and
Pueblo Hills, and part of Mine Ridge.
Exhibit No. 6, Photographic View, taken near the hacienda, looking
towards the southwest.
Exhibit No. 7, Photographic View, taken near the hacienda, looking
towards the northeast.
LANDSCAPES.
Exhibit No. 1, Landscape View, showing Mine Ridge, a portion of the
Pueblo Hills, and the valley between, looking towards the east.
Exhibit No. 2, Landscape View, showing Mine Ridge, a portion of the
Pueblo Hills, and the valley between, looking to the west.
Exhibit No. 3, Landscape View, taken from the west bank of the Alamitos, south of the hacienda, looking southerly up the gorge through which
the Alamitos flows.
Exhibit No. 4, Landscape View, taken from the same point as No. 3, and
looking northerly down the gorge through which the Alamitos flows.
Exhibit No. 5, Landscape View, taken from the east bank of the Alamitos, half a mile above the hacienda, looking up the gorge.
Exhibit No. 6, Landscape View, taken from the south bank of the Arroyo
Seco, a short distance above the junction of the two creeks, looking south
westerly.

TIE FOSSAT CASE.

ESup. CL

Argument for United States.

On this long case the following questions, in effect, now
came up for discussion:
1. Did any appeal lie from the "Survey Act?"
2. If so, had the United States, who filed no objections to
the survey as made by the Surveyor-General, nor took any
appeal below, a right to ask here for a reversal or any modification of the decree?
3. After the two decrees of the District Court itself, and
the two decisions made in this court, was the matter of this
eastern line open below for such action as was taken on it
by the District Court the last time?
4. As an original case and on its merits, what and where
were the true east and south boundaries of the tract, the
west being settled, and the north run for quantity?
Messrs. Bates, A. G., and Wills, special counselfor the United
States, who desired to have the decree reversed, or so modified as to make the Pueblo Hills the north boundary, and to
place the league in the valley wholly.
I. No appeal lies to any court from the District Court when
proceeding under the Survey Act. The act, so far as it
grants powers and imposes duties on the District Court, has
no reference to the judicial functions of the court as a part
of the constitutional judicial system of the United States.
All these powers and duties might better in law, and vastly
better in fact, be imposed upon some officer, executive and
ministerial simply. Congress bad no power, under the Constitution, to grant an appeal, if it had wished. The evidence
is doubtful that it did wish. The only language used forbids, except under conditions, that which it nowhere grants
at all. The only language used is that, "no appeal shall be
allowed from the order or decree as aforesaid of the said District Court, unless applied for within six months." Appeals
come from implication, if they come at all; and in a matter
where the whole subject granted is in derogation of regular
judicial functions, the incidents of regular functions are not
to be inferred.
II. If an appeal does lie-if the case is properly here--the

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Argument for United States.

United States have a right to come and show the errors of
the decree, even though no appeal was taken by them.
They were parties to the cause in the court below; they are
parties here; brought here. io appeal is needed, and if
any were needed, it could yet be taken.
IE. We are not concluded by either of the decisions of
this court so largely quoted in the statement. The decision
in the first case was, that the grant was not of the valley as
a valley, but of one league in the valley; and that as the
valley contained nearly two, the whole of it could not pass
The second was a dismissal of an appeal, because made from
an interlocutory, and not from a final, decree. The argument on this point, as also on the effedt of the first and
second decisions of the District Court itself on its third and
last, now appealed from by Fossat, representing Larios, will
be enlarged upon by the counsel of Berreyesa, or his representatives, who follow us.
IV. As an original case how stands the law on it?
1. As to the southern boundary. The case shows that the
ridges are one mountain; the two parts connected with each
other by a low ridge running transversely across the valley,
if you will call it so-depression we style it-which separates
them. The testimony of Mr. Veatch is full to this point;
that of Mr. Matheson also. Then on the disefao of Larios
there is but one ridge; no stream is at its base. On the
contrary, the Alamitos* is indicated as coming from behind
it. It is not enough to say that the disefo is rude or rough.
You must show that it is grossly false. Now the Seco on
the side of Santa Clara is laid down; the Guadalupe is laid
down; the Alamitos is laid down. That is to say, where
there are three streams in nature, three streams are put on
the diselio meant to represent nature. When, therefore,
there are in addition two other places in nature, one with a
stream and one without a stream, and you find the disefo
representing a place which must be one of them, and may
be one just as well as the other, how are you to decide
* Called, on it, the Capitancillos.

THE F OSSAT (OASE.

[Slip. Ot

Argument for United States.

which place is meant? In this way only: If a stream is
marked on the disefio, then the place which has a stream, in
nature, is meant to be designated. If no stream is marked,
the other.
The fact that the ridge meant to be designated is called
Sierra del Encino, does not counterpoise this argument. If.
indeed, there were but one oak in the region-some one oak
as much known as Herne's in Windsor Forest-then the
Sierra del Encino would be indicative. But oaks grew here
on the Mining Ridge as on the other. Nothing can be
argued from a nice point of grammar,-th e point of singular
and plural. Larios was an ignorant man.
Then putting that part of the Larios disefio which represents the east in juxtaposition to that part of the Berreyesa
which represents the west, it is a noteworthy fact that the
Sierra del Encino in the former corresponds with the Lomas
Bajas, oi' Mining Ridge, of the latter. This is demonstration, for the two grants are twins.
An argument for our view is, moreover, found in the fact
that the grant was of the valley alone. Berreyesa, indeed,
asked for the valley, "with all the lomas or hills that pertained to it." Larios was less ambitious. His grant says
nothing of hills at all, and is for the land called "Los Capitancillos," the name by which the valley was itself familiarly known. The Californians were a primitive and pastoral people. What they most desired were valleys inclosed
by hills, so that without fences their cattle could never stray.
The mountains themselves were of comparatively little use,
if, as we may assume, the valley had pasturage enough. As
much valley as possible, and as little mountain as might be,
was what Larios wanted and received a grant for. What
his representatives claim and get is as much of the moun
tains as they can, and as little of the valley as possible.
Look at the tract as delineated by either the heavy continuous
or the light dotted line of the map, at p. 65, and the thing
appears. What the purpose of Larios was is obvious by
considering where he put his improvements, and where he
,itempted to sell such provisional rights as he had. This

Dec. 1863.]

Tim FOSSAT

CASE.

Argument for Berreyesa.

was at the base of the Pueblo Hills. The controlling force
which the position of his house must have in fixing his
boundaries is acknowledged by the decrees, and the house
is kept in all the locations. But if the location mad, by the
Surveyor-General is retained, as Mir. Black will contend that
it niust be, who ever saw such a shaped tract in California?
The Caifornia surveys all go in parallelograms, bodies, and
even keep to rectangles as much as practicable. Look at the
shape of this tract, as designated by the heavy lines on the
map just referred to, and maintain it who can! This court
declared when the case was first here, that Larios was to
take his land within the three boundaries at his election,
under the restrictions established in California. The external or out-boundaries were fixed, but nothing else, and he
should have elected rightly.
2. As respeets the eastern line. This concerns us less. We,
indeed, prefer a straight line. We think it clear that the
east line, as surveyed originally, is right enough when produced so far only as to give a league in the valley. The
defence of the eastern necessity of the line we may leave to
Mr. Black, accepting his view with the restriction stated,that it does not pass the Mining :Ridge.
Messrs. J. B. Williams and Carlisle,for the representatives of
Berreyesa, interested in having the decree confirmed, or left
undisturbed.
1. As to the right of appeal by Fossat. We are content with
the decree as made below. We are content with a dismissal
of the case, and a consequent standing of that decree. Herein, and on this first point, therefore, and so far as it aids us,
we accept the argument of the counsel who have just con.oluded.
II. As respects the right of the United States to ask reversal,
ttey not having appealed. Our interests and views here coin.
-ide with those of Larios, or his representatives. In the
defence of the well-founded position, that the United States
canot ask a reversal, we may leave our case in the hands of
Mr. Black, who fhllows. In the defence of a good point, no

TiE FossAT CASE.

[Sup,

Ct

Argument for Berreyesa.

one will argue more ably. Some other of his positions we
shall combat, as not within the category.
H. How stands the case affected by anything decided here or
below ? Are we concluded by what that court had done or this
one has said?
When the matter was first before the District Court, the
question of the eastern boundary was not considered by it.
Its opinion, full on the southern line, says nothing about the
other. So far as the case shows, that line was not even in
controversy; though it is inferable, perhaps, from the
guarded and special language of the decree, that a dispute
existed in fact. The decree determines the southern boundary, but only designates or describes the eastern line as
marked on the disehao of Berreyesa. It said that the L-i-nd-e-r-o was the boundary between the ranchos. So we say
now. The exceptions of Berreyesa are in this same form.
But the question remained, where did the L-i-n-d-e-r-o touch
the Azul Mountain? About that the court said nothing.
The decree was reversed in this court, not on any question
of boundary, but because the court below had considered
that the whole valley passed as a valley. The case was remanded, with directions "to declare the three external boundaries designated in the grant from the evidence on file, and
additional evidence to be taken." On the return of the cause
new evidence was taken, and the case again heard. The
court, in its second decree, affirmed its former decision with
regard to that line, keeping to the language of the grants,
and referring to the L-i-n-d-e-r-o again. The decree, as before, had a guarded form. Certainly, it did not declare or
show where the L-i-n-d-e-r-o itself would strike the mountains. All that question-the whole question between Larios and Berreyesa-remained just where it was.
From that decree, too, there was an appeal here; but the
appeal was simply dismissed as being from a decree not final.
No question of merits was decided nor could be.
After being thus remanded, the Survey Act was passed.
Berreyesa and others n )w came in; and a discussion on the
eastern line was for the first time in any order.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Argument for Berreyesa.

The court below may or may not have sufficiently ex
plained itself, in its former decree, as respected this eastern
line; and by not excluding conclusions, may or may not
have guarded sufficiently against the possibility of misapprehension in distant places. Naturally, perhaps, it did not
overlay its decree with this sort of matter. But that the
court below meant to locate no line specifically but the
southern one, and that the eastern one was left upon the
basis of the L-i-n-d-e-r-o, whose course remained yet to be
settled by survey, will be obvious, we should think, to any
one who examines the evidence, the opinion, and the decrees
themselves, as taken, delivered, and made at the different
times.
Bearing this history of facts in mind, and reading what
this court has said by their light, and by its presumable
knowledge and recollection of them, we do not conceive
that this court has adjudged anything which prevents our
considering the case as an original one, though there are,
perhaps, expressions in the opinions of a cast somewhat
stiff, and slightly difficult to understand, except on a supposition of misapprehension; a matter most natural in so complex and voluminous and novel a kind of case.
Then as an original question:
1. As to the eastern boundary. The evidence is thatfalda does
not mean base of anything, but does mean the skirt or fold
of some waving object. It is a term applied to the person
of the other sex, and means often the lap, the loose part of
the dress which may be spread out as a lady sits on which
an object may lie; but it never means the feet, the shoes.
It is a term peculiarly applicable to the graceful curves of
this sloping Iomita, but philologically inapplicable to its final
base. The line we must hold goes over the lomita.
What do we see then in nature and on the diseflo? Standing at the junction of the creeks we see in nature, as we look
across the valley, the great heights of Mount IUmunhum or
the west, and the greater heights of Mount Bache on the
east. They are the great features of the landscape. The

684

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for Berreycsa.

way in which they raise their lofty heads will be urged as
an argument by Mr.Black why the Azul Range, as distinguished from the inferior hills below them, was THE Sierra
of the grant. Assuredly they were ever visible over the
great landmarks of the valley. The same is true, in a less
degree, of the Mining Peak. Nvow on the disefio of Berreyesawe see the Azul Range plainly delineated. That no one
denies. The Mining Range is plainly delineated. That no
one denies. On this delineation of the Azul Range we see
two elevations just where the lofty peaks should be; and
one elevation where the Mining Peak should be. And the
L-i-n-d-e-r-o is drawn so as to leave one of those peaks exactly so far to the west, and the others exactly so far to the
east. How are you carrying out the purpose of the line
when in nature you reverse this whole disposition of the
ridge? It may be said, in reply to us by counsel who follow
us, that the strip between Larios and Berreyesa was the only
important part of the land; an argument refuted by what
we doubt not will be replied to the counsel of the United
States, when contending that Larios never had the hills at
all; the reply, to wit, that the Mine Ridge had the best pastures of the whole valley, and that this was what any occupant of the valley would have especially valued.
The whole argument which we would make is presented
in the opinion of the court below. Compelled, as we are,
to curtail and mutilate, and so greatly to weaken and injure
it, it still expresses our idea. We may abridge it thus:
"The disefio of Berreyesa, which the prefect availed himself
of as being the more exact, is drawn with unusual accuracy.
On a mere inspection of it the location would seem indisputable.
But it unfortunately happened that the draughtsman mistook
the true position of the loma situated in the centre of the Cafiada,
and represented it as situated to the eastward of its real place.
"The question therefore arises, is the direction of this line to
be determined by those two calls alone, or should it be controlled
by other calls and indications of the disefio of higher dignity.
and concerning which a mistake was more im I robable.
"lIt is evident, from the disefio, that the Canada de los Capi.

Dec. 1863.]

THE

FOSSAT

CASE.

Argument for Berreyesa.

tancillos was supposed to run in a direction nearly east and west,
as the dispute between Larios and Berreyesa only referred to,
the mode in which the valley should be divided between them.
And it was most natural that a line should be adopted dividing
the valley in a direction perpendicular to its length. Such a line
was accordingly drawn on the diseflo, and described in the grants
as running towards the south, i. e., nearly at right angles to the
general course of the valley.
"The object of Berreyesa was to resist the further encroachments of Larios on lands for which, eight years previously, he
(Berreyesa) had obtained a provisional title from Figueroa,
while the claim of Larios was derived from a purchase of the
house of Galindo, and he had, as observed by Berreyesa to the
Governor, 'room to extend himself outside of the Cafiada,' while
the latter 'had absolutely nowhere to enlarge.'
"It is therefore improbable that Larios would have claimed,
or Berreyesa assented to, a line which running diagonally in a
southeasterly direction across the valley, would take from the
latter a large tract of land, not only of the angle of the creek
and the falda, but also being far to the eastward of Larios'
house, and assign to Larios' cattle almost the entire range of the
Lomas Bajas, expressly solicited by Berreyesa in his petition.
It may, at all events, be asserted that had such been the intention of the parties, the universal desire of Californians to bound
their ranchos by well-known natural objects would have induced
them to fix upon the Alamitos Creek as their common limit,
and thus secure a certain and precise boundary nearly coinciding
with the imaginary line they are supposed to have adopted.
"The disefio itself affords evidence of the line to which the
parties intended to assent. On it the range of the Lomas Bajas
is distinctly delineated. At the eastern extremity of this range
is a hill of greater elevation than the rest, which is turned on
the east by the Alamitos. This hill is undoubtedly the Mining
Peak or Hill of New Almaden. The Alamitos is represented as
issuing through a gorge between it and a mass of hills further
to the east, and running across the plain diagonally to the junetion with the Seco.
"If on this disefio, the line as claimed by the iepresentatives
of Larios, be drawn, it would pass to the eastward of the mining
peak, and run in an east-southeast direction, nearly coinciding
with the course of the Alamitos. But the line actually marked

THE F0SSAT OASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Berreyesa.

by the prefect is different. It is drawn in a nearly southerly
direction, and it cuts the range of the _omas Bajas at about onefifth the entire distance from their western to their eastern extremity, leaving on the left, i. e., on the eastern or Berreyesa
side, not only the Mining Hill, but four-fifths of the entire range
Nor does it at all coincide with the course of the Alamitos; but
on the contrary, makes with the general course of that stream
an angle of perhaps 451.
"Again, behind or to the south of the Lomas Bajas, is represented the range of mountains called 8Pierra Azul. On their
western extremity is the peak known as Mount Umunhum;
while far to the east, the lofty mountain now called Mount
Bache, is distinctly delineated.
"If the line contended for by the claimants be drawn on the
disefio, it would run in the direction and over to the eastward
of Mount Bache. The line, as drawn by the prefect, strikes the
Sierra at a point less than one-sixth of the entire distance between Mounts Umunhum and Bache, leaving five-sixths of the
entire range of those hills on the eastern or Berreyesa side.
"It is therefore evident that to treat the call for the falda, as
determining the course of the entire boundary line, we must
sacrifice not only the call for the course of the boundary line as
expressed in the grant, but every other indication of the disego.
It does not appear that the prefect visited the Cafiada before
adjusting the dispute. The line was assented to by the parties,
who must have been familiar with the natural features of the
country. The direction in which their common line should
cross the valley-the portions of the disputed tract to be assigned to each-the course of the boundary, whether towards
Umunhum, so as to leave the greater part of the _omas Bajas
to Berreyesa, or towards Mount Bache, so as to leave nearly the
whole range to Justo Larios-whether it was to cross the
Alamitos, making a large angle with the general course of that
stream, and leaving the gorge through which it debouches into
the valley far to the east, or whether it was to run towards the
gorge and in a course not far from parallel with that of the
Alamitos,-all these have points which we must suppose to
have been determined, and on which it is highly improbable that
the diseflo could have erroneously represented the agreement
of the parties.
"The question is not whether the calls for the angle of the

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Argument for Berreyesa.

creeks and for the falda shall be rejected, for these natural objects were undoubtedly agreed upon as fixing the limits of the
two ranchos, but whether we shall allow the subsequent direction of the line to be determined by their relative position, concerning which there was an evident mistake, and give to it,
where produced, a course entirely inconsistent with the course
specified in the grant, and clearly indicated by natural objects
on the disefio.
"If the position of the falda was to determine absolutely the
course of the boundary beyond, the prefect could hardly have
supposed that he had removed all cause of dispute.
"The term ' falda' does not indicate any point on a hill, but a
part of it. It signifies the slope or radix mantis. It probably
applies, in strictness, only to the lower slope, or that part lying
between the plain and a line drawn midway between its slope
and its summit, though it seems sometimes to be applied to the
entire slope. But giving it the more restricted interpretation,
it is insufficient to fix the direction of the line with any certainty. The lomita in question is situated at a comparatively
small distance from the angle of the creeks. If the boundary is
to be the production of a line drawn from the angle to some
point on the falda, a variation of the position of the latter of
perhaps a few yards will so change the course of the line where
produced as to materially alter the dimensions of the tract.
"The boundary, therefore, would still have been left within
considerable limits arbitrary and uncertain. If it be said that
the point on the falda intended to be adopted is shown by the
disefo, it may be answered that the diseflo also shows, by unmistakable natural objects, the direction of the line, and that
its course is to be determined by those indications.
lotwithstanding that, the parties erroneously supposed and represented
on the disefio that the line so drawn would pass by the eastern
base of the hill.
"Compelled, as we are, to resort to the diseflo to ascertain the
location, we discover the nature of the error into which the
parties fell, and discern what was their intention when the line
was agreed upon. It was designed to divide the valley between
the disputants by a line across or at right angles to its general
course. On the north it was to commence at the angle of the
creeks. At the south it was to terminate at a point opposite,
-rossing the Lomas Bajas and striking the Sierra at the points

THE FOSSAT

OASE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for Larios.

indicated on the disefio. Thefalda of the lomita was also adopted
as the western limit of the fiat land on the Berreyesa side, and
it was supposed erroneously, as now appears, that a straight line
could be drawn between the points just mentioned which would
cross the eastern base falda.
"As that is found to be impossible, it has seemed to me that
the call for a straight line should be rejected, and the boundary
fixed by drawing a line from the angle of the creeks to thefalda,
and thence across the valley points in the Lomas Bajas, and the
Sierra, to which the disefio shows it was intended to be drawn."
The court below makes a line not straight. We should
ourselves have preferred a straight line crossing the loma, as
the term falda, we think, was used to allow this. The word
was used in distinction to the pie de la loma, or base of the
hill. As in a skirt there is a certain looseness, something
wavy, so here the precise place was not designated, except
as the disefio of Berreyesa designates it. That renders it
certain by showing where it passes through the Mining
Ridge. If that diseFlo be nicely measured, it will be seen
that -j#%
of the whole length lie to the eastward, and I'll to
the westward of the L-i-n-d-e-ro. The Mining Ridge having
a defined length, the point can be ascertained. However.
we have no objection to the line as settled by the court
below. It comes to the same result essentially as that we
desire.
2. As to the southern boundary. Our interests here are
identical with those of Larios; and we leave a reply to the
Government counsel on this point with counsel who follow.
Mr. Black, with whom was 31r. Cushing, for Fossat,representative of Larios, seeking to reverse the decree, and re-establish the line as run by the Surveyor-General.
I. The Government doubts and denies the right of any appeal. When a doubt exists about the right of a citizen to
appeal, that doubt is always to be resolved in favor of the
right. The right of appeal to the highest judicial tribunal
-f the country is a sacred right, like that of trial by jury in
a common law case, which is never denied upon doubtful

Dec. 1863.1

THE FossAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

construction. Here it is not even doubtful. One argument
is made from the special language of the act as regards appeals. But the appeal is given by implication; and what a
statute gives by implication it gives as much as if it gave
expressly. The law declares that "no appeal shall be taken,
unless applied for within six months." Does not that imply
that an appeal taken before the expiration of six months is
valid and good ?* Another argument is, that the duties enjoined by the Survey Act are not judicial at all, but ministerial wholly. Is this clear? The constant, universal, and
unhesitating construction given to the law by the District
Court, by all the profession in California, by all the counsellors practising in this court, and by this court itself-matters
of common knowledge to this court and to the professionis sufficient to overbalance both arguments; mere doubts, in
fact, thrown by the Attorney-General into the other side of
the scale,
I. Gan the United States now come here with objections P
The survey was brought into court under the act of 1860.
A monition called on all parties who were interested in it to
appear and make objections, if any objections they had.
The United States made no objections at all. If the Government had objections to the survey, we had a right to know
* The form of this enactment, it may be noted, presents the same sort of
sentence which is seen in the provision of the Constitution of the United
States relative to the susppnsion of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus.
"The privilege, &c., shall not be suspended, unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it," &c. The sentence, says
Mr. Binney, in commenting on it in a recent fine essay, is elliptical. When
the ellipsis is supplied it reads, "The privilege shall not be suspended,
unless," &c., and then it may be su&pended. The clause is a grant of powei
under the conditions it prescribes. The first member of the sentence prohibits the power in its general or unconditioned state, and the second memuer reverses the first so far as to authorize it under essential condiltons.
This is a well-known idiom of our language and of most languages, and is
in common use when it is intended to affirm and deny something at the
same time in different aspects; and this is such a use as the law takes notice
of in the interpretation of statutes. It is the loquendum utvulgus, which is
a popular and universal right, and held in respect by the law. (The
Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus, Part I, p. 10, and Part III, p. 29.)
VOL. 1i.

44

690

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for Larios.

them then and in that court, so that if they were true we
could obviate them by such a modification of the survey as
might seem necessary; so that, if they were false, we might
produce evidence to show it; and so that, if the case should
ever come into this appellate court, we might have evidence
on record which would prove the truth. To change the
survey here upon grounds that were concealed from us in
the court below, is to condemn the party without a hearing.
To hear us in this court upon a record which does not contain the evidence which might have been given in the court
below, is no hearing at all. Independent of which it is certain that the Attorney-General has a right to determine
whether the Government will proceed. In this case he did
determine. He did not proceed; and that concludes the
right of the United States.
EE1. The question of the lines of this tract is not open as an original question. It has been settled; settled by the court below, settled by this court, and by both more than once. The
decree below stands in full force and unimpeachable by
virtue of its own inherent and essential force. Even if the
grant had been a floating one, the court decreed that it was
for a specific league of which it set out the boundaries. This
would end things. When, too, the case was first here, it
was declared that the land granted to Larios had boundaries
on three sides, which were well defined by objects upon the
ground, and that the fourth line was capable of being ascertained as fully as either of the other three by the simple
process of a survey. After this all that remains is that we
ascertain where those boundaries are. We have but to look
at the calls of the grant, and to look at the topography of
the place, apply one to the other, and the thing is done.
Certainly no intimation dropped from this court on either
of the occasions, when the case was here before, that any
further judicial act was to be done in the premises. On the
contrary, the last opinion says expressly: "The obligations
of the United States to this grantee will be performed by
the performance of the executive acts which are devolved by
the grant on the local authority."

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

IV. But how is the matter as an original question?
1. As to the southern boundary. On this side stands
the main Sierra,-the Sierra Azul,-which lifts up its head
nearly 4000 feet toward the sky. Of course, this mountain
forms the great feature of the landscape. It is visible in
every direction for nearly fifty miles. There it stands looming up against the background of the southern sky, and
limiting the horizon to every eye that is raised in that
direction. Of all natural objects, this is the one least likely
to be mistaken for any other. By all distinction it is THE
Sierra, if there be more than one Sierra in the case, a
matter which we deny; for one ridge is "the Sierra,"
the other the Lomas Bajas. An attempt has been made
to confound the mountain and the low hills together. The
only reason ever given for saying that they are one and
the same is, that they are connected together by a low
ridge running transversely across the valley which divides
them.
But does that connection between the hills and the mountain make them one and the same elevation? Such connections between different elevations are so common that it
seems to be a law. The Laurel Hill and the Alleghany,
two parallel ranges of mountains in Pennsylvania, are connected together by the Negro Mountain Ridge, which runs
across the valley between them, and divides the waters of
the Monongahela from those of the Alleghany River; but
nobody has ever thought that the Laurel Hill and the Alleghany are the same mountain for that reason. The same
thing occurs with many mountains.
As it is with elevations of the earth's surface, so it is with
bodies of water; they may be connected together without
being the same thing. The Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea are connected together. at the Straits of Gibraltar; but no system of geography teaches us that the island
of Sicily is, therefore, an island in the Atlantic. The Golden
Gate connects the waters of the Pacific with the Bay of San
Francisco; but suppose a county line, or the line of a land
grant, calls for tl-e ocean as its terminus, would any surveyor

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ch

Argument for Larios.

think he had responded to that call by running to the water
of the bay?
Mr. Veatch, the geologist, himself says that the two ridges
and the mountain are "separated," "detached;" and Matheson, the other witness, the surveyor, calls the low hills
a "spur, connected." These witnesses use words which are
a contradiction of themselves. Connection between two
things does not imply identity, but diversity. When a man
tells you that two things are one and the same thing, because they are connected by a third thing, he talks that peculiar kind of nonsense which even an intelligent man may
talk when he does not know what he is talking about.
Even if it were a misnomer to call this separating space
a valley, does that make any difference? The people there
understood themselves when they called it so; and for practical purposes it does not matter whether the name was scientifically adjusted to the subject or not. We know what
is meant when a person speaks of sunrise and sunset, although it be true, astronomically, that the sun neither rises
nor sets. For all the purposes of common life, the whale is
called a fish, though natural history tells us that he belongs
to another order of animals. If these parties asked for the
Caiiada de los Capitancillos,meaning to include all the land
up to the Azul Mountains, and the Governor understood
that he was granting all the land to these mountains, it
matters not whether, properly, it was all valley land, or all
mountain land.
But the fact is that it is a valley, and it is but one valley.
It is watered by these two streams, the Alamitos and the
Capitancillos, from their sources on each side of the ridge
already spoken of, to the point at which they meet and form
the Guadalupe River.
Mr. Veatch, a mineralogist, swears that they are geologically one. Does he mean to say that the Sierra Azul is
filled with cinnabar? If so, why does the United States make
the struggle for the mine? Even if the great range and
fhe small one were one geologically, topographically, and in
many other ways, the case of the Government is not helped

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT OASE.
Argument for Larios.

The question is, which or what is the Sierra? Now, Sierra
applies only to a range of mountains; a mountain chain.
Salva, in his Dictionary of the Spanish Academy, defines it,
"Prorupti montes;" rugged mountains. The term applies
specially to a chain of mountain peaks; serrated heights.
The low hills and the high hills behind may be one body.
Still the former may be the "Lomas Bajas," and the latter
"the Sierra;" and that is exactly what the disefio of Berreyesa, made at the time of the Larios grant, shows that they
were respectively and generally called.
But the counsel of the United States argue that by the
disefo of Larios the Sierra del .Encino is delineated on the
southern side of the tract, and the Pueblo Hills on the
northern; while the Lomas Bajas are not laid down at all.
What is meant in the nomenclature of that country by the
Sierra del Encino cannot be a subject of the smallest doubt.
The great oak tree on the side of the main elevation proves
itself. When Larios called the mountain depicted on his
map by the name of Sierra del Encino, it was impossible to
say that he meant the minor range, which was never called
by that name.
But the counsel have "demonstrated" the fact to be otherwise. They take the diseizos of Larios and Berreyesa, put
them together, and by a little pulling and hauling make the
Sierra del Encino, on one map, nearly fit to Lomas Bajas on
the other.
Now, if two adjoining tracts of land were both carefully
measured by the same person and with the same instruments, and a map of both made upon the same scale, you
would expect the different parts to fit one another; but
otherwise you would not, and could not, expect any such
thing. These two tracts were never measured at all. The
maps were made without measurement, by different persons,
without concert between them, and without the slightest
reference in either to any kind of scale or proportion. The
chances that an object delineated upon both would be laid
down at places exactly corresponding, do not amount to one
in a million.

THE FossAT CASE.

[Sur, Ct

Argument for Larios.

Then it is said that, in this case, the petition, as well as
the grant, was for the valley, and the valley extends to the
foot of the low hills; that this is the natural boundary of the
valley; and the natural boundary of the valley is the legal
boundary of the grant: ergo, our limit must be the foot of
the low bills, and not the mountain, where we have proved
that our line runs. These facts are not true; but assume
them to be so, and look at the logic. The proposition
means, if it means anything, that the name by which a
ranch is called in the grant ought to determine its limits,
and not the lines which are expressly given as boundary
lines. Let us see how such a rule would work.
All the grants in California, or nearly all, have names.
These names are selected arbitrarily, and very often without
any regard to the fitness of things. One person calls his
rancho by Spanish words which signify "a willow grove,"
because there are willows on a few acres of it at one corner.
According to this new doctrine, he can take nothing but
the grove, though his lines may include a hundred times
as much. Another has a tract that is called "Los Picos,"
because there are several sharp hills in the centre.* Shall
he be held to the tops of the hills? Another is named "Isla
de Santa -Rosa," because a river runs through the tract, and
in the river is a little island called "Santa Rosa;" but the
tract itself is five or six leagues in extent, while the island
contains not more than three or four acres. A gentleman
known to me is owner of a grant named in the title-papers
"Rio de los Americanos." Measuring it by the lines given
in the grant, it extends along the bank of the American
River four leagues, and has a depth of two leagues. To this
he is entitled, if the calls of the grant prevail; but, if the
name that the Governor called it by is the only standard,.
then the bed of the river is all he can take.
The reductio ad absurdum is furnished, however, in this very
case. The grant issued to Berreyesa is named "Cfanada de
los Capitancillos." The grant to Larios is for "Los Caitan.
- See supra, map facing p. 564.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FossAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

eillos." Berreyesa must, therefore, have the Valley of the
Little Captains, while Larios can take nothing but the little
captains themselves.
But that which is conclusive on this question of the south
ern boundary isi. That the Mexican Government and both its grantees
show clearly what range they meant when they spoke of
"the Sierra;" and show- moreover, that they meant the
Azul Range, or, as they call it, the " Ciemra Azul."
ii. That they distinctly include the range before it, the
Mining Range, as a part of the property owned by the disputants.
The disefio of Berreyesa, in all that concerns the course
and termination of the L-i-n-d-e-r-o, was a chart common to
Larios, Berreyesa, and the Mexican Government. Now on
this the Mining Range is called the Low Hills (Lomas Bajas).
The Azul Range is called the Cierra Azul ! It is the only
thing on any map called a Sierra at all. It is "the Sierra,"
therefore, of the case. How irrelative all evidence about
geologic or topographic natures in the face of designations
given and fixed by the very parties concerned!
Then a reference to the disefio shows that the L-i-n-d-e-r-o
is brought over or through the Mining Range to the Sierra
Azul. This dotted line was meant to divide between Larios
and Berreyesa land which, between them, they, and not the
Mexican Government, owned. It is absurd to suppose anything else. We must presuppose a grant; whether conditional or other, it matters not. Independently of which the
Prefect who drew the line was an agent of the Government.
The Governor knew what he did, and ratified his act. And
when the line is drawn so as to show that the Mining Range
(lid not belong to the Government, who was interested to
claim it if it did, it operates as explanation for every one,
and, as respects the Government, for an estoppel also.
2. As to the eastern boundary. I aver that this eastern
line, which constitutes one chief subject of dispute, is fixed
with a certainty that belongs to no other land boundary in
all California. 'What are the facts? Larios and Berreyesa

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Larios.

lived near to each other, below the foot of the Pueblo Hills,
not far from the creek. They cultivated but little land, for
the plain reason that they had no land which was fit for cultivation. They lived upon the produce of their flocks, as Job
and Abraham and Saul and David. Their wealth consisted
in the large flocks of horses and cattle and sheep that roamed
over the hills immediately before their residence. Each of
them claimed a league of land, but they had no titles which
would stand the test of judicial scrutiny. The dividing line
between them had never been legally established; they could
not prove where it was; neither could assert his right against
the other; yet the laud that lay between their houses, and
upon the hills in front of their houses, was more valuable
to them than any other land claimed by either. It was the
portion of their land least likely to be given up without a
contest. In these circumstances it was the most natural
thing in the world that a dispute should arise between them
about the division line. Accordingly you find that in the
spring of 1842 something like a quarrel did take place. This
waked them up to the necessity of having their domains
legally defined. Both of them, almost simultaneously, sent
in petitions to the Governor, each asking for a grant to himself by the boundary that he claimed. The petitions and
the disefios show what was the subject-matter of the controversy. Berreyesa insisted upon a line running directly past
the house of Larios, so that Larios could not put his foot out
of his own door without becoming a trespasser on the land
of Berreyesa. The dispute then was about a narrow strip ot
land between them, and extending from the Pueblo Hills to
the foot of the Sierra. In their circumstances it was worth
a struggle.
The history of this line is before us; and it would be one
of the strangest events that ever occurred in the history of
human affairs if it were true that this line was not, after all,
so clearly established as to be indisputable. It ran through
a region where natural objects abounded, by which it could
be intelligibly described. The parties were perfectly familiar
,ith the whole face of the land. They knew Mount Umun-

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

hum, the Mine Peak, and every peak-though as yet these
reared their heads unnamed by modern names-as I know
the fingers on this hand. They desired to define their own
boundary with perfect clearness. They invoked the aid of
the public authorities to assist them. They were satisfied
that they had succeeded. The Prefect who advised them
was also convinced that he and they both understood where
the line was to be, and so did the Governor. Can it be that
they were mistaken? Let us take the description of the
line which they agreed upon, and see whether there is any
ambiguity about it.
The beginning-point fixed upon is the junction of the two
creeks. About that fact there has never been any dispute.
What was the course of it? They said it should run from
the starting-point southward. The legal meaning of" southward" is due south, if there be nothing else to control it.
But a natural object was called for, the eastern base of a
small hill-loma or lomita-which rises, not far from the
forks of the creek, from the midst of the surrounding level
land of the valley. The call for a south line and for the
eastern base of that hill happen to be precisely consistent.
They declared that this south line, running past the eastern
base of the hill, should go straight to its terminus without
angle, crook, or bend. It remains that we ascertain what
the terminus is. Before them, on the course of the south
line, lay the green hills upon which their cattle were feeding
at that moment; and in the blue distance behind the hills
rose the Azul Mountains, barren, rugged, and bare, two
ihousand feet higher than the hills. To say that they did
not know the difference between their own pasture-grounds
on the hills and the barren mountain beyond the hills, is
sufficiently preposterous. It is still more absurd to suppose
that they would voluntarily exclude their pasture from the
grants they -ere asking for, and leave the hills vacant, so
that the Governor might grant them the next day to some
body else, who would drive tner cattle down upon tue dusty
plain, where every horn and hoof of them would starve in
a week.

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for Larios.

This description, considered alone, without reference to
the map, makes the line too clear for doubt. They did
intend to start at the forks of the creek, to run southward
past the eastern base of the loma or lomita, and onward
by a straight line over the hills to the foot of the main
Sierra.
But the Prefect knew very well that a mere verbal description, which reaches the mind only through the ear, is always
liable to perversion. He determined, therefore, that he
would leave it to no quibbling argument upon the meaning
of words; he would submit it to the more faithful sense of
sight; it should bo an ocular demonstration. He took the
map which had been prepared by Berreyesa, and on which
every object referred to in the description of the line was carefully, though rudely, laid down and marked in such a manner
as to make it certain what was meant by it. There was the
SierraAzul, the lomas bajas, the loma, or lomita, and the watercourses, with the name of each object written under or over
it. The Prefect took this map and drew across it a dotted
ine, beginning at the forks of the creek, and going straight
past the eastern base of the lomita, over the hills to the foot
of the mountain. He referred in his report to this map of
Berreyesa with the dotted line upon it, and made it a part
of his report. It is referred to in both the grants as showing
where the true line is.
Every survey, official and unofficial, public and private,
has concurred. All agree that the line starts at the spot, is
on the course, and terminates at the place where we say it
does. No surveyor, with the grants and the diselios in his
hand, could fail to find the place of beginning; no one could
miss seeing the eastern base of the lomita; nor was it possible for human perversity not to perceive that the terminus
of the line was the foot of the great Sierra. The line was
marked by monuments which could not and would not be
trifled with. The blue mountains, the green hills, and the
rolling streams testified to it with a voice which no sophistry
'=ould obscure and no perjury could contradict.
On the other side of the question, the principal name that

De(.. 1863.]

THE FOSsAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

is used is Mr. Lewis, assisted by some of the pastoral and
amatory poets of old Spain. You cannot read the testimony
of Mr. Lewis without perceiving that he is a man of considerable ability, and of skill in his profession as a draftsman.
He has great talents; great, especially, for confusing that
which is plain. He was a professional surveyor; and willing to sell his talents to anybody that would pay the price
for them. This man was employed for years in doing everything that a surveyor and a draftsman could do, except going
upon the ground, running the line in dispute, and saying
whether it was at the right place or the wrong one. For
months he has been kept running over the hills, measuring
every height and chaining every hollow, and making maps
and diagrams of all the ranches for fifteen miles around. At
one time you hear of him at the top of Mount Umunhum,
four thousand feet up toward the sky. The next thing you
know, he is down in some dark hollow, measuring away at
something else, but always as far as he can possibly get from
the line in dispute. One day he is off ten miles to the east
of Berreyesa, and then again he is surveying a rancho somewhere north of the Pueblo Hills, clean out of sight of this
region.
But Mr. Lewis is not enough. The poets of Spain come
to his aid. Refreshing no doubt it is to find ourselves in the
poetic literature of that renowned, romantic land. It will
enrich a report and encourage a reader. I shall not, however, go into the profundities of Castilian lore; the more as
it is shown that neither Larios, Berreyesa, nor the Prefect
probably, had the Spanish dictionary, dedicated to Don
Philip V, and printed at Madrid in the year 1782, near them
when they settled the L-i-n-d-e.r-o. It is not likely either
that they were better acquainted with Martin, Cadalso, or
even Jovellanos, charming poets though they all be. Admit
thatfalda does mean skirt. What then? What does skirt
mean? The great lexicographer of our language, Dr. Johnson, gives us one of its meanings: "Edge, margin, border,
extreme part." What is the edge or extreme part of a hill
but its base? Richardson says:

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. t

Argument for Larios.
"SKIRT, from Spyran, to cut, to dissolve, to separate. The part where
the continuity is separated; a seperate part or portion; the edge, the border, the bound or boundary."

Illustrations which he gives are these:
"The water's edge skirted with precipices."-Anson's Voyages.
"The skirt or outer part of the island . . . is woody."-Dampier's
Voyages" Mighty winds,
To sweep the skirt of some far-spreading wood
Of ancient growth."- Cower'a Task.

But I am not going into these curiosities of etymology;
"the science where consonants signify little, and vowels no
thing at all." The question has slightly to do with these. It
is a question of intent, nor wholly even of that, but largely
one of law.
Assuming the authority of both-of Mr. Lewis and of
the pastoral poets-the District Court made the decree we
seek to reverse. The opinion has been partially read. The
first noticeable thing in it is, that it concedes to us every
fact which we have ever asserted with reference to the division line. The court admit that the true beginning of it
is at the forks of the creek; that it runs thence southward
by the eastern base of the lomita. It also admits, that the
call of the grant is for a straight line upon that course up to
the mountain. Why, then, did it not follow the call as the
Surveyor-General had done before, as the court itself had
done in former adjudications?
The court say, that when Berreyesa and Larios agreed
to that line, they intended it to run, not south, but perpendicularly to the general direction of the valley. I deny this
utterly. In their agreement before the Prefect, and in the
grants which both afterwards accepted, they declared their
intention that it should run south, and not a word is said
about perpendicular. But the intention thus expressed by
themselves is disregarded, and a different intention imputed
to them, without evidence. It is remarkable, too, that the
court, after assuming without evidence that their intention,
w'as to ake a perpendicular line, does not order the line to

Dec. 1863.1

Tim F0SSAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

be run according to this assumption.

It directs the line to

be carried southward to the base of the lomita, then makes
an angle, and runs fifty-four degrees west for a certain dis.
tance, where it makes another angle, and then goes thirtyfour degrees west of south to the mountain. Neither of
these lines is perpendicular to the course of the valley; for
certainly the valley cannot have three perpendiculars.
The court below commits another error of fact when it
declares that the position of the lomita was misunderstood
by the parties. If there is one thing in this case more striking than another, it is the remarkable accuracy with which
the agreement and the grants defined the relative position
of that little hill and the beginning-point of the line.
The court below thinks, and in this it is followed by Mr.
Carlisle and Mr. Williams, that it can see in the shape of
the Sierra Azul, as drawn upon the disen-o of Berreyesa, the
different portions of the mountain as existing in nature.
The court assumes that certain parts of it, which are larger
than other parts of it, are intended for Mount Bache and
Mount Umunhum, and proposes that the line shall be run
so as to strike the mountain at the place where it terminates
on the map of Berreyesa, assuming that it knows where that
place is. Now, no one can cast even a careless glance upon
the figure which Berreyesa called by the name of Sierra
Azul, without seeing that it can bear no sort of resemblance
to the natural mountain itself. It was not intended to be a
picture of the mountain. If one part is higher or lower than
the other it was mere accident. All the reasoning upon
which this hypothesis proceeds, is based upon the assumption that the different objects delineated upon the map are
laid down in their proper proportions to one another, and
that the different parts of the same object are also duly proportioned. Admit that assumption to be false, and the whole
argument falls. The assumption is false. There is no pretence of proportion about the map. Here is a fact which
sets it in a very striking light. The house of Berreyesa "s
proved to be exactly thirty feet wide, yet it occupies upon
the map one-fifth of the space of the whole valley. If the

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. c

Argument for Larios.

valley is proportioned to the house, it is only one hundred
and fifty feet wide. If you take the valley to be, as it is at
that place, nearly a mile wide, and the house to be laid down
in proper proportion, then that house covers about two hundred acres of ground; and if it be high in proportion to its
width, it is ten times as high as all the pyramids in Egypt,
piled upon one another. The same logic that proves this to
be Mount Umunhum, and that to be Mount Bache, would
have shown with equal certainty that Berreyesa lived in a
structure so vast that all the men in America could not
have put it up in half a century.
But suppose that one or both of the parties, at the time
they made that agreement, had actually believed that a
straight line, run upon the course which they agreed to,
would strike the mountain at a different place, would that
be a reason for setting aside the agreement and disregarding
the grants, after the acquiescence of all parties for twenty
years? Certainly not. If a surveyor had gone upon the
ground, and had run that line, when the grants were not

more than a month old, and Larios had said that he was
disappointed in the "outcome" of the line he agreed upon,
could any officer run it contrary to the grant for that
reason? No. The answer would be, "Your agreement has
been executed; the grants have been made to you and to
your neighbor both,-to you for the land on one side, to him
for the land on the other side,-and it is now too late to repent."
But this map of Berreyesa does show conclusively that
both he and Larios understood perfectly that the straight
line which they bargained for would run where it does run,
east of the ridge, and east of the mine.

The ridge divides

the waters of the Capitancillos from those of the Alamitos.
The mine is near that ridge. The Alamitos Creek is laid
down on Berreyesa's map. The division line, the line in
controversy, as laid down on the disefo itself, runs across
the Alamitos Creek, the whole of which is east of the mine,
not across the Capitancillos, which is west of it. If the parties were fam:liar, as everybody admits that they were. with

Dec. 1863.]

Tim FossAT CASE.
Argument for Larios.

the ground, then the line must have been intended by them
to run very nearly, if not exactly, where it does. This fact,
showing the place where they intended to cut the creek, is
as conclusive upon the subject as any fact of that nature can
be, and is absolutely without contradiction.
To reverse this decree is a legal necessity, and you cannot
do that without restoring the division-line to the place where
the Surveyor-General located it. There is no other place for
it. You cannot find, in all this record; any other description
of that line which it is possible for you to follow. If you
take the exceptions of the Berreyesa party themselves, you
find them describing the Surveyor-General's line as the true
one; nor is there a spark of evidence which would justify
any court in adopting another.
May it please the court, reverting to the question of the
southern line, I have to say that in it the honor of the United
States is deeply concerned. The land we are claiming never
belonged to this Government. It was private property, under
a grant made long before our war with Mexico. When the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo came to be ratified-at the
very moment when Mexico was feeling the sorest pressure
that could be applied to her by the force of our armies and
the diplomacy of our statesmen-she utterly refused to cede
her public property in California, unless upon the express
condition that all private titles should be faithfully protected.
We made the promise. The gentleman sits on this bench
who was then our minister there.* With his own right hand
he pledged the sacred honor of this nation that the United
States would stand over the grantees of Mexico, and keep
them safe in the enjoyment of their property. The pledge
was not only that the Government itself would abstain from
all disturbance of them, but that every blow aimed at their
rights, come from what quarter it might, should be caught
upon the broad shield of our blessed Constitution and our
equal laws.
* Clifford, J.

704

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

It was by this assurance, thus solemnly given, that we won
the reluctant consent of Mexico to part with California. It
gave us a domain of more than imperial grandeur. Besides
the vast extent of that country, it has natural advantages
such as no other can boast. Its valleys teem with unbounded
fertility, and its mountains are filled with inexhaustible treasures of mineral wealth. The navigable rivers run hundreds
of miles into the interior, and the coast is indented with the
most capacious harbors in the world. The climate is more
healthful than any other on the globe; men can labor longer
with less fatigue. The vegetation is more vigorous and the
products more abundant; the face of the earth is more varied, and the sky bends over it with a lovelier blue. Everything in it is made upon a scale of magnificence which a
man living in such a common-place region ,i -urs can
.carcely dream of--"Which his eye must see,
To know how beautiful this world can be.

That was what we gained by the promise to protect men
in the situation of Justo Larios, their children, their alienees,
and others deriving title through them. It is impossible that,
in this nation, they will ever be plundered in the face of such
a pledge.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has already been twice before the court.* It
was very ably and elaborately argued at the bar on both
occasions, and fully considered by the court. There is very
little, if anything, left that is new to be considered or decided
upon the present argument.
The main question in contestation in the two preceding
arguments, and which has again been ably and elaborately
presented, is that involved in the settlement of the southern
boundary of the grant, whether or not the foot of the Sierra,
the mountain range, or the Lomas Bajas, a range of low hills
north of it, constituted this southern botindary. The Board
* United States v. Fossat, 20 Howard, 413; Same v. Same, 21 Id. 445.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Opinion of the court.

of Commissioners adopted the Sierra, and its decree, in this
respect, was confirmed by the District Court. On an appeal
to this court the same line was fully recognized.
The court, after referring to the lines of the grant to
Larios. and to the Sierra, as described in the grant to Berreyesa, the west line of which was a line in common between
the two ranches, as agreed upon between the parties previous
to the issue of either grant by the Governor, say, "The
southerni western, and eastern boundaries of the land granted
to Larios are well defined, and the objects exist by which
those limits can be ascertained. There is no call in the
grant for a northern boundary, nor is there any reference
to the disefio for any natural object, or other descriptive call
to ascertain it. The grant itself furnishes no othet criterion
for determining that boundary than the limitation of qciantity, as expressed in the third condition." The decree of
the District Court was reversed, for the reason that it confirmed to the claimant a larger quantity of land than was
embraced in the grant, and the cause was remitted to that
court to enter a decree in conformity with the opinion. As
it became necessary to remand the cause for the'purpose of
locating upon the ground the quantity as limited by the
above decision, authority was given to the District Court to
fix the boundaries from the evidence on file, and such other
evidence as might be produced before it. On filing the
mandate in the District Court, the counsel for the United
States applied for liberty to furnish further evidence, w]ich
application was granted. Several witnesses were examined
accordingly, their testimony relating chiefly to the southern
boundary of the tract, as described in the grant. The cout
had suspended the entry of the decree, in pursuance of the
mandate, until after this evidence was furnished. The decree was filed and entered October 18, 1858. It reaffirmed
the Sierra, or mountain range, as the southern boundary,
and directed the line to be so drawn as to include the botfom
and low lands along the base of this Sierra, and declared the
eastern line to be a straight line commencing at the junction
of the Arroyo Seco and the Arroyo de Alamitos, and thence
VOL. II.

45

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. (it

Opinion of the court.

running southward to the aforesaid Sierra, or mountain
range, passing by the eastern point of the small hill situated
in the centre of the cafiada, which was designated in the
grants to Larios and Berreyesa, being the same line agreed
upon between them as a division-line, and which is delineated
by a dotted line on the disefio or map in the expediente of
Berreyesa. It declares also the western boundary to be the
Arroyo Seco, which is the continuation of a stream known
as the Arroyo Capitancillos, and the northern boundary to
be a line or lines located, at the election of the grantee, or
his assigns, under the restrictions established for the location and survey of private land claims in California, in such
manner that, between the northern, southern, eastern, and
western lines, there shall be contained one league of land,
and no more.
The decree then fixes the western line of Fossat, which is
a line between him and the Guadalupe Mining Company,
that owns one-fourth of the league granted to Larios, and
confirms to Fossat the remaining three-fourths within the
lines above declared.
This decree was appealed from by the United States to
this court.* The court dismissed the appeal as prematurely
brought, the decree below not being a final decree.
In the opinion dismissing the appeal, it is said, after referring to the case when previously before us,t "The court had
delermined that the grant under which the plaintiff claimed
land in California was valid for one league, to be taken
within the southern, western, and eastern boundaries desig
nated therein, at the election of the grantee and his assigns,
and adds, the District Court, in conformity with the directions of the decree, declared the external lines on three
sidts of the tract claimed, leaving the other line to be completed by a survey to be made. From the decree, in this
form, the United States have appealed."
The court then answers the objections taken to the motion
* United States v. Fossat, 21 Howard, 445
t Reported 20 Howard, 413

Dec. 1863.]

THE

FOSSAT OASE.

Opinion of the court.

to dismiss, which were, that the inquiries and decrees of the
Board of Land Commissioners and of the District Court
could relate only to the question of the validity of the claim,
and not to questions of location, extent, and boundary, and
that the District Court had gone in its decree to the full limit
of its jurisdiction. These objections, after a full consideration of the acts of Congress, of adjudged cases, and of the
principles upon which the court was bound to proceed, were
overruled; and the court observe that, in addition to the
questions upon the validity of the title, there may arise questions of extent, quantity, location, boundary, and legal operation, that are equally essential in determining the validity
of the claim; and that, in affirming a claim to land under
the Spanish or Mexican grants to be valid within the law of
nations, the stipulations of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
and the usages of these governments, we imply something
more than that certain papers are genuine, legal, and translative of property. We affirm ownership and possession of
land of definite boundaries rightfully attach to the grantee.
And .in closing the opinion, it is observed that, "After the
authenticity of the grant is ascertained in this court, and a
reference has been made to the District Court to determine
the external bounds of the grant, in order that the final confirmation may be made, we cannot understand upon what
principle an appeal can be claimed until the whole of the
directions of this court are complied with, and that decree
made. It would lead to vexatious and unjust delays to sanction such a practice."
It will be seen, from this opinion, that the reasons for the
conclusion that the decree of the District Court was not a
final one, were, that the land granted had not been located
on the ground by fixed and definite boundaries. A survey
of the tract was indispensable in order to locate the northern
boundary. That boundary was not given in the descriptive
calls of the grant, and depended upon the limitation of the
quantity; and until the survey of the three lines given,
namely, the eastern, southern, and western, and the threefiurths of a league of land located within them, the northern

708

THE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ut.

Opinion of the court.

boundary could not be ascertained or fixed. The ]ocatior
of this line was an essential step to be taken on the part of
+hie District Court, in fulfilment of the duty enjoined by the
mandate of this court. In the interpretation of that mandate,
this court, in its opinion,* observes, "The District Court, in
conformity with the directions of the decree, declared the
external lines on three sides of the tract claimed, leaving the
other line to be completed by a survey to be made." That
had not been done.
On the filing of the mandate of dismissal of the appeal in
the District Court, an order was made directing the Surveyor-General to proceed and survey the land confirmed in
conformity with the decree as entered in that court, and
which, as we have seen, was entered on the 18th October,
1858. That survey was made and is found in the record.
It was approved by the Surveyor-General 18th December,
1860, and filed in the court below 22d January, 1861. We
have also the testimony of Hays, the deputy surveyor, who
surveyed the lines on the ground, and constructed the map;
also of Conway, a clerk in the office, who assisted him, and
of Mandeville, the Surveyor-General, who approved of the
map, showing that the survey and map were made in strict
conformity with the boundaries of the tract as given in the
decree, of which they had a copy, and followed as their
guide.
This survey having been made in conformity with the
decree of the District Court, entered in pursuance of our
mandate, would, doubtless, have closed this controversy, had
it not been for the act of Congress passed 14th June, 1860,
after the entry of the decree in the District Court, but before
the survey of the tract by the Surveyor-General. The act
purports to be an act to regulate the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States in California, in regard to
the survey and location of confirmed private land claims.
It authorizes the court to allow intervenors, not parties to
the record, to appear and contest the survey, or in the words
* 21 Howard, 447.

Dec. J.863.]

THE. FOSSAT CAsB.
Opinion of the court.

of the act, "to show the true and proper location of the
claim," and for that purpose to produce evidence before the
court, and directs that, "on the proofs and allegations, the
court shall render judgment thereon." Any party dissatisfied with the decision may appeal to this court within the
period of six months.
Under this act several parties intervened, and much testimony was furnished to the court in relation to the survey
and location of the tract by the Surveyor-General, and which
is found in the record, embracing some two hundred and
twenty pages. And on the 16th November, 1861, the court
entered an order reforming the survey, as to the eastern
line. Instead of adopting the eastern line of the survey,
which had been located as directed in its decree, and which
was a straight line from the point of beginning to the termination at the Sierra (the southern boundary), passing by the
eastern point or base of the low hill in the centre of the
cafiada, the court directed that; from the base of the low hill,
the line south should be deflected fifty-five degrees west, until
it reached a given point or object, and from thence south
thirty-four degrees west till it reached the Sierra, or mountain range. Instead of a straight line for the eastern boundary, three lines were directed to be run, at considerable
angles to each other, between the starting-point and the termination. This direction of the court not only reformed the
survey of the tract as made by the Surveyor-General, but
reformed the decree itself of the court, entered on the 18th
October, 1858, in pursuance of which the survey had been
made. The court assumed that the survey and location of
the tract was not to be governed by the decree, but, on the
contrary, that it was open to the court to revise, alter, and
change it at discretion, and to require the Surveyor-General
to conform his survey and location to any new or amended
decree; for, certainly, if it was competent to change this
eastern line from that settled in the decree, it was equally
competent for it to change every other line or boundary as
there described and fixed.
Now, it must be remembered, that this decree of the Dis.

TiE FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. 2t

Opinion of the court.

trict Court designating with great exactness this eastern
line, with such exactness that the Surveyor-General had no
difficulty in its location, was entered in pursuance of, and in
accordance with, the mandate of this court, and by which that
court was instructed at the time of the dismissal of the appeal,
that the three external lines declared in it were in conformity
with the opinion of this court; and that the other line-the
north line-only, remained to be completed by a survey to
be made, and that this line was to be governed by quantity,
which quantity had been previously determined.
This radical change, therefore, of the eastern line of the
tract, involves something more than a change by the court
of its own decree; it is the change of a decree entered in
conformity with the mandate of this court. But we do not
intend to place any particular stress upon this view, for we
hold that it is not competent for the court to depart from
its own decree in the exercise of the power conferred by the
act of the 14th June, 1860. The duty enjoined is not a rehearing of the decree on its merits, it is to execute it, to fix
the lines on the ground in conformity with the decree entered
in the case. The decree is not only the foundation of the
validity of the grant, but of the proceedings in the survey
and location of land confirmed. But, independently of this
view, which we regard as conclusive, and even if the question was an open one, this alteration is wholly unsustainable.
Indeed, the learned counsel for the appellees did not undertake to sustain it on the argument. The fact was admitted
hat the line was a straight one between the two termini.
An attempt, however, was made to sustain the termina,
tion of the line at the same point on the Sierra, or southern
boundary, consistent with the line being run straight from
the point of starting. This is sought to be accomplished by
disregarding one of the descriptive calls in the line, a natural object, namely, the eastern base of the low hill, an object
which must have been visible to the eyes of both Larios and
Berreyesa at the time they agreed upon the settlement of
the line as their common boundary. But even this departure from the grant will not answer the purpose. There is

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Opinion of the court.

still the difficulty of geffing at the point of termination at
the foot of the Sierra. That point or corner must first be
ascertained before a straight line can be extended to it from
the junction of the two creeks, the starting-point. The only
description in the grant by which this point of termination
can be ascertained is by running a line from the junction of
the two creeks past the eastern base of the low hill southward to the Sierra. It is the extension of this line, in the
manner described, by which this corner on the Sierra is
reached and identified. Any one seeking to ascertain it
without the use of these means, will find himself without
compass or guide.
Now, this corner the learned counsel for the appellees
propose to fix arbitrarily or by conjecture, and then by
drawing a line from the junction of the two creeks to it, a
straight line is obtained, and by this process of ascertaining
the corner at the Sierra, it is made easy to select the one
reached by the crooked line of the court below. But then,
the line, as is admitted, instead of passing by the eastern
base of the low hill, would cut it not far from or even west
of its centre.
The court below, as is apparent, yielded to this argument,
so far as respected the arbitrary selection of the corner at
the Sierra, but refused to depart from the call in the line for
the eastern point of the low hill. Hence, the crooked line
between that point and the termination. The crooked line
has the advantage over the straight one of the learned coun.
sel, as it observes one of the principal calls in the grant.
Theirs observes none of them except the starting-point.
There are two objections to this view, either of which is
fatal.
The first, the point selected at the foot of the Sierra for a
corner, is arbitrary and conjectural, and in contradiction to
the clear description in the grant. And, second, it disregards one of the principal and most controlling calls in it,
the eastern base of the low hill.
Our conclusion upon this branch of the case is, first, that
the court erred in departing from the eastern boundary, as

THE

FOSSAT CASE.

[Slip. Ut

Opinion of the court.

specifically described and fixed in the decree of the 18th
October, 1858. And, second, that irrespective of that decree,
the line in the survey and location approved by the SurveyorGeneral, 18th December, 1860, is the true eastern line of the
land confirmed.
The only party that appealed from this order or decree of
.he District Court, in respect to the survey and location, as
appears from the record, is the present claimant. He insists
upon the correctness of the first survey by the SurveyorGeneral, and that the alteration by the court of the eastern
line, and consequently of the other lines made necessary by
this change, are erroneous.
The United States did not appeal. They are, however, a
party to the record as appellees, and appeared by counsel on
the argument in this court, and took objections to the survey
and location, mainly on the ground that the proceedings
under the act of 1860 were not judicial, but purely executive
and ministerial, and, as a consequence, that the appeal from
the order or decree of the District Court, regulating the survey and location, ought not to be entertained; that the courts
could only determine the validity of the grant, leaving its
survey and location to the Executive Department of the
Government. In other words, that the act of 1860 was unconstitutional and void. We need only refer to the opinion
of this court, in the present case, the second time it was
before us, as presenting a conclusive refutation of these several positions. The fundamental error in the argument is,
in assuming that the survey and location of the land confirmed are not peoceedings under the control of the court
rendering the decree, and hence not a part of the judicial
action of the court. These proceedings are simply in execution of the decree, which execution is as much the duty
of the court, and as much within its competency, as the hearing of the cause and the rendition of its judgment; as much
so as the execution of any otherjudgment or decree rendered
by the court.
This power has been exercised by the court ever since the

Dec. 1863.]

TuE FoSSAT CASE.
Opinion of the court.

Spanish and French land claims were placed under its jurisdiction, as may be seen by the cases referred to in the opinion
of the court in this case, when last before us,* and in many
others to be found in the reports. The powers of the Surveyor-General under these acts were as extensive and as
well defined as under the act of 1851. The act of 1860 did
not enlarge or in any way affect his powers. They remained
the same as before,
The first act of Congress, March 2d, 1805,t amended
March 3d, 1806, establishing a Board of Commissioners to
settle private French and Spanish land claims, under the
Louisiana treaty, provided for a survey of the confirmed
tract by the Surveyor-General, under the direction of the
commissioners.
And the act of 26th March, 1824, the first act which placed
these land claims under the jurisdiction of the United States
District Courts, provided that a copy of the decree of the
confirmed claim should be delivered to the Surveyor-General, and that he should cause the land specified in the decree
to be surveyed, and which survey, being presented to the
Commissioner of the Land Office by the claimant, entitled
him to a patent. Under this act and other similar acts, the
cases referred to in 21 Howard arose, and in which this court
entertained appeals from decrees in the District Courts upon
the survey and location of confirmed claims. The 13th sec,
tion of the act of 1851 corresponds substantially with the
above provision of the act of 1824. It makes it the duty
of the Surveyor-General to cause all confirmed claims to be
accurately surveyed, and provides that the claimant, on pre.
senting a copy of the decree of confirmation and a plat of
survey to the General Land Office, a patent shall issue. It
also confers upon this officer the powers of the registers and
receivers, under the 5th section of the act of' March 3d,
1881,1 which relates simply to the case of interfering confirmed claims.
* 21 Howard, 445.
t 4 Stat st Large, 4q4.

t 2 Stat. at Large, p. 441;

0,7.
6

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The duty of the Surveyor-General, under all these acts, is
to survey and locate the confirmed tract, in conformity with
the decree. It is the only guide which is furnished to him;
and one of the first instructions from the Land Office is as
follows: "In the survey of finally confirmed claims you
must be strictly governed by the decree of confirmation; and
when the terms of such decree are specific, they must be
exactly observed in fixing the locality of and surveying the
claim." This instruction was given under the act of 1851,
and in relation to the private land claims of California; and
it was in accordance with this instruction that the survey of
the present claim was made and approved by the SurveyorGeneral, 20th December, 1860, and filed in the court below
22d January following, and which was reformed by the court
by the alteration of the eastern line, as already explained.
Those who are desirous of putting the Land Office above
the decrees of the courts, should at least be satisfied with
this instruction of the department, if not with the decrees.
It has been argued, that the lines of the tract, as given in
the grant,were out-boundaries, like the case of Fremont and
others which have been before the court, and embraced a
larger area of land than the one square league, and that the
survey and location should not have been controlled by these
lines as specific boundaries.
The first answer to this objection is, admitting it to be
true, it can have no influence upon the judgment to be given
by this court. These lines have been adjudicated and settled,
and incorporated in the decree of the District Court, and
which decree was entered in pursuance of the mandate of
this court, and no appeal has been taken fr-om that decree.
It is said, however, that the decree was not in conformity
with the mandate. If so, the party aggrieved should have
appealed, and this court would have corrected the error.
This is common learning, and needs no authority.
The error, it would seem, was not discovered until the
survey; but this affords no reason for violating established
law. The more natural conclusion, we think, is that the

Dec. 1863.]

TmF0SSAT

CASE.

Opinion of the court.

omission to appeal was the result of a conviction the decree
was right. It was entered after much testimony taken in
respect to it, and full argument on behalf of the very parties
who now set up this pretext.
The second answer to the objection is, that the lines in the
grant are not out-boundaries in the sense of the cases referred to.
This court said, when the case was first before it, "The
southern, western, and eastern boundaries of the land granted
to Larios are well defined, and the objects exist by which
these limits can be ascertained. There is no call in the grant
for a northern boundary, nor is there any reference to the
diseao for any natural object, or other descrptive call to
ascertain it. The grant furnishes no other criterion for determining that boundary than the limitation of the quantity
as expressed in the third condition." And the same opinion
is substantially expressed by the court when before it the
second time. The court say: "The District Court, in conformity with the directions of the decree, declared the external lines on three sides of the tract claimed, leaving the
other line to be completed by a survey to be made." It
should be remembered this was said of the decree now in
question, which was then before the court. The observations were made in express reference to it.
But, independently of this, and looking at the question
as an original one, there can be no reasonable doubt about
it. The eastern line was in dispute between the two adjoining rancheros (Larios and Berreyesa), and which was carried before the public authorities for settlement, and there
finally adjusted by the agreement of the parties. A line
could hardly be made more specific. A boundary settled
and fixed after litigation by the adjoining owners. The
western boundary is a well-known natural object, the Arroyo Seco-a creek. The southern, the Sierra, or mountain
range; and no boundary on the north. The grant was of
quantity, and of necessity this boundary must be determined
by the limitation of that quantity between the lines given

THE FossAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

it is true, in the second condition of the grant it is said, the
judge who shall give possession of the land shall have it
measured in conformity to law, leaving the sobrante,the surplus, to the nation. But this is a formal condition, to be
found, for abundant caution, in every Mexican grant. There
is no sotrrantehere, nor could the judge have measured the
grant according to the law or ordinance in a way to have
any. Aside, therefore, from the lines being fixed and specific according to the opinion of this court, and of the decree
of the court below in pursuance of it, there could be no
reasonable doubt upon the question, if an original one.
Much has been said on the argument in respect to the first
locations and residences of the claimants on the low lands
outside of this northern boundary, and as to the duty of the
court to so locate this boundary as to include these possessions. But the answer to these suggestions is obvious. At
the time these claimants took possession of the tract, they
supposed they were entitled to a larger quantity of land
than one league,-nearly two leagues,-which would have
carried this line over and beyond these possessions. But
this court cut down the quantity to one league, and hence
these possessions are, with the exception of the old house
of Larios, necessarily excluded. It is also said that sales
were made to third persons in the, valley outside of the line,
and that their title should be protected. But they are not
complaining of the survey or location as made in pursuance
of the decree. Some of them appeared before the District
Court, and filed objections to it, but have since withdrawn
and abandoned them. We do not refer to these objections
as entitled to any particular weight or importance, but because the explanations are at hand, for we place the decision
of the case upon the ground that the boundaries of the tract
have been settled by the final decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, and until that decision is got rid of, there is an
end of the controversy.
OuR CONCLUSION is that the order or decree of the court
below, of the 16th Novinber, 1861, which set aside the sur-

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT GASE.
Opinion of the court.

vey of the tract approved by the Surveyor-General, 18th
December, 1860, and which order or decree was directed to
be filed nunc pro tunc, as of the 31st October, 1861, and, also,
the order or decree of the 16th iNov'ember, 1861, confirming
the new survey, which was filed in court by the Surveyor.
General on 11th of that month, be reversed and annulled,
and that the cause be remitted to the court below, with directions to that court to enter a decree confirming the survey
of the Surveyor-General, approved 18th December, 1860,
and filed in court 22d January following.
The only objection that can be made to this survey is, that
the tract is not located in a compact body. A comparatively
small strip or tongue of land is extended from the main body
along the eastern line north to the junction of the two creeks,
with a view to reach the starting-point of the description in
the grant. This was unnecessary, as we have seen, for the
cutting down of the quantity to a league necessarily carried
the north line further south than originally supposed. This
northern line might have been closed with the eastern direct, instead of adopting the divergence north to the junction of the two creeks. But the quantity of land embraced
in this strip is unimportant, is of no interest to any one
except the Government, and scarcely any to it, as, if corrected, an equal quantity must be taken to make out the
quantity in the grant fr-om some other part of the public
lands. Besides, the Government has not appealed.
To, remit the case with directions that a, new survey be
made in conformity with the decree, and for the purpose of
correcting this small error, would occasion delay and expense, and benefit no one.
The truth is, since the determination that the southern
boundary of the tract was the Sierra, and not the Lomas
Bajas, and that the eastern was a straight line, its direction
southward to be controlled by the eastern base of the low
hills, there is nothing left of this controversy worth contending for-scarcely merit enough to make it respectable.
DECREE REVrRSED

and the cause remitted, with directions

Tim FOSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

to enter a decree confirming the survey approved by Sur.
veyor-General, 18th December, 1860.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissenting.
I concur in the opinion that the true division-line between
the rancho of Justo Larios and that of Jos&Reyes Berreyesa
is a straight line, and consequently that the decree in question should be reversed, but I dissent altogether from the
directions given to the court below and from the reasons
assigned in support of those directions. Some brief reference to the title-papers and to the facts and circumstances
of the case is indispensable in order to a clear understanding
of the nature of the controversy and of the grounds of my
dissent from the views expressed in the opifiion pronounced
in behalf of a majority of the court.
I. Appellant, in his original petition to the commissioners
appointed under the act of the 3d of March, 1851, prayed
for the confirmation of his title to an undivided interest of
three-fourths in a certain tract of land lying in the County
of Santa Clara, in the State of California, and known as the
Cafada de los Capitancillos, which, as he alleged, was contained within certain natural boundaries. When he presented the petition, he filed with it copies of the expediente
and of the original grant under which he claimed, and his
representation was that he held the title to the tract through
certain mesne conveyances therein mentioned and described.
Referring to the expediente, it will be seen that it consists
of the petition of Justo Larios, the original donee of the
tract, addressed to the Governor, together with the disefio
and the usual marginal decree and the concession or vista
la pelicion and the titulo or original grant. Provisional
grant of the land it seems had been made at some early
period by the Ayuntamiento of the Pueblo of San Jos6
Guadalupe to one Leandro Galindo, who built a house on
the premises and lived there for many years prior to the
grant of Justo Larios, or to any application by him for the
same. House of the occupant was north of the highway and
pretty close to the southern base of the Pueblo Hils. Or-

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

ginal claimant, Justo Larios, in his petition to the Governor,
dated at Monterey, on the sixteenth day of June, 1842, represented that he had purchased from the owner of the
house all the right he had to the land by virtue of that
provisional concession. Such provisional concessions, it is
known, were often made, and that it frequently became
necessary for a subsequent applicant for a grant of the same
tract to purchase the improvements made by the occupant
as a means of facilitating his own application. Petitioner
describes the tract as a place known by the name of the
Canada de los Capitancillos, and states that the limits of said
tract are from the boundaries of Santa Clara to the corral,
called the corral of the deceased Macario. Decree of concession recites that Justo Larios is the owner in full property of a part of the land called Cafiada de los Capitancillos, bounded by the Sierra, by the Arroyo Seco, on the side
of Santa Clara, and by the rancho of the citizen Jos6 Reyes
Berreyesa, which has for boundary a line commencing at
the angle formed by the junction of the Arroyo Seco and
the Arroyo de los Alamitos, thence southward to the Sierra,
passing the eastern base of the small hill situated in the
centre of the cafiada.
II. Attention to the description given of the cafiada, as
contained in the concession, will show, especially when it is
taken in connection with the language of the petition, that
all of the boundaries of that part not previously granted are
either expressly given, or so clearly indicated, as to amount
to the same thing, and to leave no room for doubt as to the
intention of the granting power. All will agree, I suppose,
that the course of the Arroyo Seco, on the side of the church
property called Santa Clara, was well known. Properties
of that description were usually well defined, and there is
not the slightest pretence of evidence in the case to show
that this line was ever in dispute. West line of the tract
is, therefore, fixed beyond peradventure. East line of it, as
agreed on all sides, is the west line of the rancho of Jos6 Reyes
Berreyesa. Controversy arose at one time between the original proprietors of those ranchos as to that division-line;

720

THE FOSSAT CASJ.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

but it was duly settled by competent authority. iothing
need be added upon that subject, as I agree that the line
should be a straight one, as assumed in the opinion of the
court; but I insist that it commences at the angle formed by
the junction of the Arroyo Seco and the Arroyo de los Alamitos, and runs south to the Sierra, wherever that may be.
Beginning is at the angle formed by the junction of those
two Arroyos, and that angle, as all must agree, is north of
the house built by Leandro Galindo, and close to the base
of the Pueblo Hills, on the northern side of the cahada.
Larios purchased that house and fhe adjacent improvements,
and was living in the house when he presented his petition
to the Governor, and when the grant was made. He asked
for the valley, alleging that he had occupied it "since the
year 1836;" and it was part of the valley which was granted
to him, as will presently more fully appear. Rancho of
Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa lies east of this tract, and of course
the west line of that rancho is the east line of the claim
under consideration. Grant to Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa is the
elder grant, atd as the tract in question is bounded on that
rancho, it is both proper and necessary to refer to the titlepapers in that case, and to look at the actual location of that
grant upon the land, to aid in the solution of the present
controversy. Grantee, in that case, became possessed of a
part of the same cafiada or valley, in the year 1834, under
a grant from Governor Figueroa, and he continued to occupy
it with his family until 1842, and perhaps later. During that
year he complained to the Governor that his neighbor, Justo
Larios, had disturbed his possessions, and prayed that there
might be granted to him two sitios of the valley, extending
from the house of Justo Larios to the matadero or slaughterhouse, erected by him at the easterly end of the valley, "with
all the hills that belong to the cafiada." Commissioners confirmed his claim for one league, and on appeal the decree
was confirmed by the District Court. Appeal was thereupon taken to this court, and this court held that the concession and titulo described a parcel of land included withiin
natural boundaries, but that the conditions of the grant eo-

Dec. 1863.]

Tim FOSSAT

CASE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

fined it to a single league in quantity, and affirmed the decree of the District Court, ordering "the land to be located
according to the description, and within the boundariesset out
in the original grant, and delineated on the map contained
in the expediente."*
III. All, or nearly all, the improvements made by the
claimant in that case also were north of the camino or highway, and close to the Pueblo Hills on the northern side of
the valley. He built two houses, and they were and are both
situated nearly as far north as the angle formed by the junction of the before-mentioned arroyos. Northern boundary
of the cafiada, therefore, was evidently understood by the
grantees of both these ranchos to be, what it is in truth and
faith, the southern base of the Pueblo Hills. Southern
boundary of the cafiada is described as the Sierra, and much
effort is expended in the attempt to prove that by the word
Sierra is meant the Sierra Azul, or the main Sierra. Be
that as i may, still, in my view of the case, the opinion of
the court is clearly founded in error.
But I deny that the caliada, or valley, as described in the
title-papers, and as understood either by the respective petitioners, or by the granting power, extended southwardly
beyond what are called the Lomas Bajas, or low hills.
Those hills, or certain portions of them, are seventeen hundred feet above the level of the Bay of San Francisco, and
might well have been regarded by the petitioners and the
Governor as the northern base of the main Sierra. Evidence
shows that there is no table-land between those hills and the
main Sierra, which is called the Sierra Azul, and that they
are only separated from the higher range by a narrow, broken, irregular gorge, which forms the bed of the -Arroyo de
los Capitancillos, through which tumble the waters of that
stream on their way from their source in the highlands to
the southern skirt of the valley below, which takes its name
from the name of the arroyo by which it is watered. Party
then interested asked for the sobrante of the cafiada lying
* United States v. Heirs of Berreyesa, 23 Howard, 499.
VOL. I.

46

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

between the Arroyo Seco, on the side of Santa Clara, and
the rancho of Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa; but the Governor refused to make the grant in tnat form, but limited it to one
sitio de ganadamayor, or to one league of a larger size.
IV. Application was for the sobrante of the eafiada; but
if the quantity of the table-land was insufficient to meet the
requirement of the grant, then there would be some show
of reason for giving the document a more liberal interpretation, so as to include within the boundaries the quantity
granted. No such difficulty, however, arises in the case,
because, in any view taken of the subject, the quantity included within the out-boundaries is more than double the
quantity to which the claimant is entitled.
Stripped of all side issues, therefore, the only question is,
whether the grant which was for the lands of the valley shall
be located there or upon the mountain, which is the southern
boundary of the valley where the land lies for which the
petitioner asked when he made his application to the Governor.
V. Suppose it were otherwise, and that the main Sierra,
or Sierra Azul, is really the southern boundary of the valley,
still I maintain that the directions given to the court below
to enter a decree confirming the survey of the twentieth of
December, 1860, are plainly and clearly erroneous. Operation of those directions, when they are carried into effect,
will be to locate the principal portion of the claim upon the
Lomas Bajas, and to exclude all the table lands except the
narrow strip called in the opinion of the court a tongue,
which is more than a mile in length, and only from twenty
to thirty rods in width, and borders on the west line of the
adjacent rancho. Survey apparently was commenced at the
main Sierra on the line of the rancho of Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa, and runs northwardly on that line entirely across the
valley to the angle formed by the junction of the Arroyo
Seco and the Arroyo de los Alamitos, whereas it should have
been commenced at the angle formed by those two arroyos,
and run south for quantity, so as to have included the valley
for which the petitioner asked when he applied to the Go.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

,ernor for the grant. Having determined to commence
south and run north for quantity, it became necessary to
make that narrow strip or tongue, else one of two things
would follow which must be avoided. Either the tract would
not include the house of the claimant, or it would exceed
the quantity of one league if it included the quicksilver
mine. Apparently it was a sine qud non that it should include
the mine, and it was doubtless thought desirable that it
should also include the house of the claimant, because it
must have been known that the usages and customs of the
country required it in the location of such grants.
Besides the recital of the concession is, that the rancho of
Josd Reyes Berreyesa has for boundary a line commenicing
at the angle of the two arroyos before mentioned, and it may
be that it was thought proper to have some regard to that
recital. But it would not do to take more than a narrow
strip of the valley, because if more was taken, either the
mine must be excluded or the quantity would be too great,
and hence all the residue of the table lands must be excluded. Boundaries in the grant are the same as those
given in the concession, and consequently are subject to the
same observations. Second condition of the grant is, that
the donee shall solicit the proper judge to give him juridical
possession in virtue of the decree, by whom the boundaries
shall be measured out; and he shall put on the boundaries, in
addition to the landmarks, some fruit trees or useful forest
trees. Third condition describes the land as one league of
the larger size, and the requirement is that the judge who
shall give the possession shall have the land measured in
conformity to law, leaving the surplus which remained to
the nation. Land commissioners confirmed the claim for
one league, but on appeal taken by the claimant to the District Court that decree was reversed, and a decree entered
confirming the claim as one for the whole tract with specific
boundaries. Whereupon an appeal was taken to this court,
and this court reversed that decree, and decided that the
claim was for one league of land, to be taken within the
southern, western, and eastern boundaries designated therein,

724

THE FoSSAT CASE.

[Su).

Ut

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

and which was to be located at the election of the grantee
or his assigns, under the restrictions established for the location and survey of private land claims in California, by the
Executive department of the Government. Plainly this court
then decided that the grant in this case was not one by specific boundaries, but was a grant by quantity, to wit, for one
league of land. And the court go on to say that the external
boundaries designated in the grant may be declared by the
District Court from the evidence on file, and from such other
evidence as may be produced before it, and the claim of an
interest equal to three-fourths of the land granted is confirmed to the appellee. Nothing can be plainer, I think,
than the fact that it was the out-boundaries of the cafiada
that this court authorized the District Court to declare.
Decree of the District Court then under revision declared
the grant to be one of specific boundaries, and assumed to
tix them, but this court reversed that decree and declared
that the grant was not one of specific boundaries, but a grant
for one league of land, and expressly declared that it was to
be taken within the three boundaries named, and was to be
located at the election of the grantee or his assigns, unde7
the restrictions established for the location and survey of privateland claims in California, by the -Executive department of the Go.
vernment.*
VI. -Where there are no guides in the title-papers, and thE
claimant has made no improvement, nor done any act, as by
sale of a part, or otherwise, to influence the decision as tG
the location, the regulations of the Executive department,
as a general rule, allow the claimant an election as to the
location within the external or out-boundaries of the tract
or place described within the grant, subject to the qualification that he must take the land in a compact form, and as
far as practicable, leave the residue in the same condition.
But where the title-papers furnish a guide, or where he has
built a house, or made other improvements on the claim, or
where he has sold a part of his claim, very different rules
* United States v. Fossat, 20 Howard, 427.

Dec. 1863.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

prevail. Locations under such circumstances are made to
conform as near as may be to the intent of the granting
power as indicated in the title-papers; always, however,
subject to the qualification that it must include the improvements of the claimant, and, as far as is consistent with the
public interest, be made to conform to the parts conveyed,
so that the location may be in one body, and leave the public
lands in the same condition. Reference undoubtedly was
made by the court to these rules, when it is said that the
location must be made under the restrictions established by
the Executive department of the Government. These suggestions are sufficient, I think, to demonstrate beyond cavil,
that the boundaries mentioned in the opinion of the court
in that case, were the external boundaries, and that it was
those boundaries which were to be fixed by the District
Court, and not the specific boundaries of the claim, else
there would have been nothing to which the restrictions
established by the Executive department of the Government
could be applied. Taking this view of the opinion in that
case, it is clear and consistent, and if it had been followed
the case would have been free from all embarrassment.
Grant of claimant was declared to be a grant by quantity,
otO be located within certain out-boundaries, three of which
were already ascertained, and it was left to the District Court
to ascertain the fourth from the evidence on file, and such
other evidence as might be taken by the parties, but the
survey and location were to be made under the rules and
regulations of the land department. Mandate of this court
was that the decree of the District Court should be reversed,
and that the cause be remanded with directions to enter a
decree in the case in conformity to the opinion of this court.
Opinion of this court was, as before stated, that an interest
equal to three-fourths of the land granted should be confirmed to the claimant, and that the District Court should
ascertain the northern boundary of the cafiada, and when
that was done, that the land department should make the
survey and location. Cause was remanded; but the District
Court, instead of following the mandate of this court, on the

Tim FossAT CASE.
Opinion of Clifford, j,

[Sup. CiL

dissenting.

eighteenth of October, 1858, entered a decree defining the
specific boundaries of the claim.
VII. Appeal was taken to this court by the United States,
but this court dismissed the appeal, holding that it was improvidently taken, and remanded the case for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of
this court. Decision in effect was that this court had no
jurisdiction of the case, and hence the opinion of the court
upon any matter connected with the merits of the controversy can hardly be regarded as authority; but it is not
necessary to decide that point, as the court, in express terms,
reaffirm what had been decided in the first case. Both decisions of this court in this case, therefore, show that the grant
is one by quantity, to be located within the boundaries of the
cafiada, and I entertain no manner of doubt that such is the
true construction of the grant. Such a claim should be surveyed and located under the rules and regulations of the Executive department, whether it be made by the Land Office
or by the courts. Location as decided in the opinion of the
court in this case will be in violation of every one of those
rules and regulations, and will also be diametrically opposed
to the opinions of this court in the two cases to which reference has already been made. These propositions, as it seems
to me, are not refuted in the opinion just pronounced, even
if they are not impliedly admitted; but the suggestion is
that the District Court, in the decree of the eighteenth of
October, 1858, decided that the grant was one with specific
boundaries, and proceeded to fix them in the decree, and
that the decree then entered is in full force and unreversed,
and that inasmuch as the appeal taken by the United States
was dismissed and no new appeal was taken, the decree is
binding on this court, although it was contrary to the mandate of this court given in the same cause. Considering the
peculiar nature of the jurisdiction in this class of cases, T
cannot admit that doctrine. Proceedings in this class of
cases are very different from the proceedings in suits at com
mon law. Where the grant is of a tract by specific bounda.
-ies, there would be some force in the argument, because iii

Dec. 1863.]

THE FoSSAT CASE.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

that class of cases it is incumbent upon the court not only
to determine the question of confirmation, but also, if it be
decided to confirm the claim, to determine the boundaries
of the grant as a part of the original adjudication.
VIII. Such, however, is not the rule, and never was where
the claim is what is called a floating claim, or where the
grant is one by quantity, to be located within certain outboundaries, embracing a larger tract than the grant. All
the courts have to do in such cases is to decide the question
of confirmation, and leave the location to the Executive
department of the Government. Attention, however, is
called to the act of the fourteenth of June, 1860; but the
answer to that reference is, that the provisions of that act
have nothing to do with the decree of the District Court,
entered on the eighteenth of October, 1858, nearly two years
before the act was passed. Opinion of the court undertakes
to vindicate the directions given in the cause, not upon the
ground that the provisions of that act apply in the case, but
upon the ground that the prior decree of the District Court
had the eflect to determine the controversy, and really that
no further survey and location are necessary. Questions of
this magnitude cannot be evaded, and ought not to be under
any circumstances. Having given the subject all the consideration in my power, I am of the opinion that all that
part of the decree of the District Court, rendered on the
eighteenth of October, 1858, which attempts and professes
to fix the boundaries of the claim in this case, was coram
non judice, and utterly void. Reluctant as I am to differ
from the majority of the court on this occasion, still I have
much satisfaction in reaching that conclusion; because, if
twenty millions of property must pass from the United
States to those who have no pretence of title to it, I am not
willing to cast the blame of such a monstrous result upon
the office of the Attorney-General, or to place my decision
in such a cause upon a mere technicality. Patient and
thorough investigation has convinced me that the title to
the quicksilver mine is in the United States, and it shall
never pass into other hands by my vote while that convic-

LOWBI R v. BANGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tion remains, although I may stand alone. If this great
wrong must be done, I would that it could have been done
upon some other ground; for it seems that, in the opinion
of the court, the case has been pending six years since it
was finally and conclusively decided, which is an anomaly,
perhaps, never before witnessed in a judicial tribunal. In
my view of the case, the decree of the court should be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to order a
new survey under the rules and regulations of the Executive
department of the Government.

LoWBER V. BANGS.
A stipulation in a charter-party that the chartered vessel, then in distant
seas, would proceed from one port named (where it was expected that
she would be) to another port named (where the charterer meant to load
her), "with all possible depatch," is a warranty that she will so proceed;
and goes to the root of the contract. It is not a representation simply
that she will so proceed, but a condition precedent to a right of recovery. Accordingly, if a vessel go to a port out of the direct course, the
charterer may throw up the charter-party.
Ex. gr. A vessel, while on a voyage to Melbourne, was chartered at Boston for a voyage from Calcutta to a port in the United States. The
charter-party contained a clause that the vessel was to "proceed from
Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible despatch." Before the master
was advised of this engagement, the vessel had sailed from Melbourne
to Manilla, which is out of the direct course between Melbourne and
Calcutta, and did not arrive at Calcutta either directly or as soon as
the parties had contemplated. The defendants refused to load; and
upon suit to recover damages for a breach of the charter-party, it was
held that the charterers might rightly claim to be discharged,

& SON being owners of the ship Mary Bangs, then
at sea, on her passage from New York to Melbourne, chartered her at Boston, on the 4th June, 1858, to Lowber, who
was there, for a voyage from Calcutta to Philadelphia, &c.
The charter-party contained the following clauses:
BANGS

"Ship to proceed from Melbourne to Calcutta with all possible
despatch. It is understood that the , Mary Bangs' is now on her

