Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES

V.

PACHECO.

587

Statement of the case.

they supposed to be public lands; and in addition to this,
the early survey by Vioget, which was made the latter part
of 1840, or beginning of 1841, must also have been well
known to the settlers in that section of country.
THE DECREE of the court below, confirming the survey and
location of the eleven square leagues to Sutter, approved by
the Surveyor-General, May 11, 1863, and filed in court the
same day as recited in the said decree, and marked, "Approved, May 11, 1868, Ogden Hoffman, District Judge," must
be REVERSED AND SET ASIDE; and the survey and location
of the grant by A. W. Von Schmidt, United States Deputy
Surveyor, approved by the Surveyor-General, J. W. Mandeville, February 18th, 1860, and a certified copy filed in the
District Court, 27th of the same month, be substituted in its
stead; and that the case be remitted to the court below, with
directions to confirm this survey as the location of the said

grant.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in the case, nor take part
in its decision.

UNITED STATES V. PAOHECO.
1. When the boundaries designated in a decree of the District Court, confirming a claim to land under a Mexican grant in California, embrace
a greater tract than the quantity confirmed, the grantees have the right
to select the location of this quantity, subject to the restriction that the
selection be made in one body 'and in a compact form; and subject, also,
in some instances, to selections made by their previous residence, and
by sales or other disposition by them of parcels of the general tract.
2. When the sea or a bay is named as a boundary of land, the line of ordi
nary high-water mark is intended where the common law prevails.
And where a decree confirming a Mexican grant mentions a bay as
one of the boundaries of the land confirmed, without any further particulars, the same line will be considered as adopted.

APPEAL from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, confirming the survey and location of a grant made by the

UNITED STATES V.

PAOECO.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the ease.

Mexican Government of California to Pacheco and another,
March 23d, 1844, for three leagues of land, situated on the
east side of the Bay of San Francisco.
The decree of the District Court confirming the claim of
the grantees under the grant, described the land as "known
by the name of Potrero de los Ccrritos, and bounded on the
side of the Mission of San Jos6 by the Sanjon de los Alisos
(Ravine of the Willows), on the north by the creek of the
Alameda (Arroyo de ]a Alameda), and on the west by the
bay, containing about three square leagues." The ravine
and the creek here referred to as boundaries connect with
each other, and with the bay inclose a tract of greater quantity than the three leagues confirmed. On the side of the
bay there is salt or marsh land of about two leagues in
extent. The whole of this land is covered by the monthly
tides, at the new and full moon, and a part of it is covered
by the daily tides.
The decree of the District Court was affirmed on appeal
by the Supreme Court. Subsequently, a survey was made
of the quantity confirmed, under the act of June 14th, 1860,
and approved by the District Court. The survey embraced
the greater part of the marsh land which is covered by the
monthly tides, and excluded that part or the greater portion
of it which is covered by the daily tides. From the decree
of approval the United States took the present appeal in the
interest of settlers on the upland, and the question before
the court was as to the correctness of the survey.
The Government contended that the boundary designated
as the bay, should be so run as to include all the marsh
land; in other words, that by the bay as a boundary in this
case was meant the line of low-water mark; and assuming
that the boundaries given in the decree do not close, also
eontended that a fourth line must be determined by the
quantity confirmed, and so drawn as to exactly include it.
The respondents insisted that they had the right to locate
die quantity granted to them anywhere within the exterior
boundaries named in the decree of confirmation, subject only
to the condition, that the location be made in one body and

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V. PACHECO.
Opinion of the court.

in a compact form; which condition was followed in the
present case.
The grant referred to a map; but that included both marsh
land and upland, and did not indicate that one should be
taken before the other.
Mr. Wills, for the UniWl States; Mr. Crane, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree of the District Court confirms the claim of
the respondents to the extent of three square leagues, and
describes the land as bounded, on the side of the Mission of
San Jos6, by the Sanjon de los Alisos (or Ravine of the Willows); on the north by the Arroyo de la Alameda (creek of
the Alameda); and on the west by the Bay of San Francisco.
As the ravine and creek connect with each other, the boundaries given inclose on all sides the tract, from which the
three leagues are to be taken. On the side of the bay there
are about two leagues of salt or marsh land. The whole
of this land is covered by the monthly tides at the new and
full moon, and a part of the land is covered by the daily
tides. And the objection taken to the survey approved by
the District Court, is that it does not include this marsh
land as part of the tract confirmed. The objection is made
on the supposition that the lines given by the decree do not
close; that a fourth line is necessary to complete the boundaries, and that this fourth line must be determined by the
quantity confirmed, and so drawn as to include it; and that
by the bay as a boundary in this case is meant the line of
low-water mark.
The positdon that the lines given do not close, rests upon
a mistake as to the fact, and of course requires no other
answer than this statement. Within the boundaries given,
the respondents had the right to select the location of the
quantity confirmed to them, subject only to the restriction
that the selection be made in one body and in a compact
form. This right of location, possessed by Mexican grantees
when a specific quantity is confirmed lying within exterior

o90

UNITED STATES V. PACHECO.

LSup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

boundaries embracing a greater quantity, is, in many cases,
controlled by their previous residence, or by sales or other
disposition made by them of portions of the general tract.
The parcels occupied for a residence, or disposed of, are
treated as selections already made, fiom which the parties
cannot recede. But in the present case there were no considerations of this kind to control the election of the respon-

dents: and it is not denied that the land embraced by the
survey is in one body, and in a compact form.
The position, that by the bay as a boundary is meant, in
this case, the line of low-water mark, is equally unfounded.
By the common law, the shore of the sea, and, of course,
of arms of the sea, is the land between ordinary high and
low-water mark, the land over which the daily tides ebb
and flow. When, therefore, the sea, or a bay, is named as
a bbundary, the line of ordinary high-water mark is always
intended where the common law prevails.* And there is
nothing in the language of the decree which requires the
adoption of any other rule in the present case.
If reference be had to the rule of the civil law, because
the bay is given as a boundary in the grant from the Mexican
Government, the result will be equally against the position
of the appellants.
The map, to which the grant refers, does not determine
the point; it includes both marsh land and upland, and does
not indicate that either shall be taken by the grantees before
the other. The greater part of the marsh land which is
covered by the monthly tides is in fact embraced by the
survey, and that part which is excluded, or the greater portion of it, is covered by the daily tides. If the grantees
were also entitled to the portion excluded, they could have
asserted their right by an appeal from the decree approving
the survey. It does not lie with the Government to complain of the decree in this particular.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

*3

Kent, 427

