MARINE BANK V. FULTON BANK.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.

MARINE BANK v. FULTON BANK.
1. Money collected by one bank for another, placed by the collecting bank
with the bulk of its ordinary banking funds, and credited to the trans.
mitting bank in account, becomes the money of the former. Hence,
any depreciation in the specific bank bills received by the collecting
bank, which may happen between the date of the collecting banks'
receiving them and the other banks' drawing for the amount collected,
falls upon the former.
2. In a case where the trial has proceeded on merits, and the error has not
been pointed out below, judgment will not be reversed, even though
the form of action have been wholly misconceived, and to the case
made by it a defence plainly exists.

IN the spring of 1861, the Fulton Bank, of N~ew York,
sent for collection to the Marine Bank, Chicago, two notes,
one of Cooley & Co., for $2000, and one of Hunt & Co., for
$1037; both due May 1-4, in that year. The currency at
Chicago had become at that time somewhat deranged, and
consisted exclusively of bills of the Illinois banks. The
Marine Bank, just afterwards, addressed a circular to its
correspondents, informing them that, in the disturbed state
of the currency, it would be impossible to continue remittances with the usual regularity, and that until further notice
it would be compelled to place all funds received in payment
of collections to the credit of its correspondents in such currency as was received in Chicago,-bFls of the Illinois Stock
Banks,-to be drawn for only in like bills.
On the 1st May, the cashier of the Fulton Bank thus
addressed the cashier of the Marine Bank:
"Please hold the avails of the collections I have sent you,

subject to my order, and advise amount credited."
The two notes were collected by the Marine Bank, iN
Illinois currency, at that time from five to ten per cent. below
par. Immediately after the notes were collected, the Chicago bank, in reply to an inquiry from the Fulton Bank?
how the account stood, advised the latter bank thus:
"Rtay 1. You have credit as follows: Cooley & Co., .
,May 6. Y )ur account has credit as follows: Hunt & Co.,

.
.

.

$2000.'
10372

Dec. 1861.]

MARINE BANK

v. FULTON BANK.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

On the 21st April, 1862, that is to say, about a year aftei
the collection made, the New York bank made a demand
of payment from the Chicago bank, which was refused,
unless the former bank would accept Illinois currency, now
sunkfifty per cent. below par.
The Marine Bank was a bank engaged, like other banks,
in receiving deposits, lending money, buying and selling
exchange, and the money collected on the two notes in
question was not retained in any separate or specific form.
On suit brought in the Northern Circuit for Illinois by
the Fulton Bank, the court charged that the said bank
was entitled to recover the value of the Illinois currency
at the time the money was received by the defendant, and judgment went accordingly. The question in this court was,
whether this was right, and whether the court below ought
not to have charged, as it was requested but refused to do,
that the Fulton Bank was "only entitled to recover of the
defendant the value, in coin, of such currency so received
by the defendant at the time of demand made by plaintiff for
payment with interest, and from that date,"-the only instruction asked for by the defendant's counsel.
A question was also raised in this court as to the form of
action below,-trespass on the case for having wrongfully
received the depreciated paper; but this point had not been
raised in the court below.
Mr. _Puller, for the JjarineBank, plaintiffin error,contended
that this bank, in receiving the money and passing it to the
credit of the Fulton Bank, was acting as the plaintiff's agent.
If this was so, and it obeyed instructions and acted in good
faith, it could not be held responsible for the depreciation
of the currency while in its hands; a position for which the
counsel relied on the American Leading Cases.* The Marine Bank had of course mixed the currency it received with
other like currency, and perhaps used a part or the whole
in its ordinary banking business. In this, however, it did
but follow the only course possible among banks. No de* Second edition, p. 691; note to Burril v. Ephiiiips, &c.

MARINE BANK V. FULTON BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

positor, correspondent, or customer, when dealing with a
bank, ever expects that anything else will be done. This
being the settled and only practicable course of business,
the plaintiff understood that when the notes were collected
and the proceeds placed to his credit, they would pass into
the general funds of the bank, and be used till drawn for.
This intermixture, having been made in the usual course
of business, the counsel contended was proper, and did no
wrong to the principal. The ordinary rules of law, with
regard to confusion of goods, applied, and the proprietors
had an interest in common in the entire fund, in proportion
to their respective shares.
The counsel also called attention to the form of action,case for negligence in receiving the depreciated paper. In
sueb form of action nothing was before the court but the
question, whether the Marine Bank was liable for having
received the paper; and to that question the bank's circular
was a complete reply. The question, whether the Chicago
bank was liable for one rate or for another did not arise on
the pleadings; judgment had been given below on a thing
not at all in issue; and was, accordingly, to be reversed.
ir. E. S. Smith, contra.
Mr. Tustice MILLER delivered tne opinion of the court.
The Chicago bank was unquestionably the agent of the
Fulton County Bank, up to and including the receipt of the
money from the makers of the notes. If no change was
made in their relation subsequent to that time, then the
former bank, having obeyed instructions, should not be held
liable to the latter for the depreciation of its money. The
agent, however, in this case was a bank engaged in the usual
banking business of discounting notes, buying and selling
exchange, and receiving deposits from its customers, and
some confusion may grow out of the peculiar character of
the agent.
If any person not a banker had received this sum of money
for an Eastern correspondent, with instructions to hold it sub.

Dec. 1864.]

MARINE BANK V. FULTON BANK.
Opinion of the court.

ject to order, he would probably have locked it up in his own
safe, or that of some one else, until called for; and when demanded, he would have delivered the identical money which
he had received, thus discharging his whole duty as agent.
if, Lhowever, instead of this prudent and safe course, he had
the same day that he received it bought with it a bill on New
York at thirty days, which, when matured, was worth in
Chicago one-half per cent. premium, it will hardly be contended that when the principal demanded his money the
agent could pay him by buying in the market other bills of
Illinois banks fifty per cent. below par.
This, however, is substantially what the Chicago bank did,
and what it claims the right to do. It is true that it is not
in evidence what precise use was made by it of the money
received for these collections. But it is proved that it was
placed with other money of defendant, and used in its daily
business as its own. That business was to buy such drafts,
to pay its own debts to its depositors, to discount notes and
bills. If it was defendant's money it was all right, because
he could do as he pleased with his own. But if it was
'plaintiff's money, held by defendant as its agent, then this
use of it by defendant would seem to be a conversion.
But here we are reminded of the banking character of
the agent, who insists that it was impossible to keep plaintiff's money separate from its own, and that plaintiff knew
this fact; and, secondly, that from the course of business
it was understood that, when the money was collected and
placed to the credit of plaintiff's account, the defendant
would use it.
As to the first proposition, it cannot be admitted that
there was any impossibility in keeping plaintiff's money
separate from defendant's. It is every day business for
bankers, who have vaults and safes, to receive on special
. deposit small packages of valuables, and even money, until
the owners call for them. There is not only no impossibility in this, Lut there is no serious difficulty in it. It
is simply an inconvenience, and but a slight one, as a small
slip of paper around the bills, labelled with the owner's

MAi{INE BANK v. FULToN BANK.

[Sup. C',

Opinion of the court.

name, would have marked their identity and their separation, without occupying any additional space. Even this inconvenience the defendant could have avoided at any time
by refusing longer to hold the deposit. But the truth undoubtedly is, as stated in the second branch of the proposition, that both parties understood that, when the money
was collected, plaintiff was to have credit with the defendant
for the amount of the collection, and that defendant would
use the money in his business. Thus the defendant was
guilty of no wrong in using the money, because it had become its own. It was used by the bank in the same manner
that it used the money deposited with it that day by city
customers; and the relation between the two banks was the
same as that between the Chicago bank and its city depositors. It would be a waste of argument to attempt to prove
that this was a debtor and creditor relation.
A tl deposits made with bankers may be divided into two
classes, namely, those in which the bank becomes bailee of
the depositor, the title to the thing deposited remaining with
the latter; and that other kind of deposit of money peculiar
to banking business, in which the depositor, for his own
convpnience, parts with the title to his money, and loans it
to the banker; and the latter, in consideration of the loan
of the money and the right to use it for his own profit, agrees
to refund the same amount, or any part thereof, on demand.
The case before us is not of the former class. It must be
of the latter. The parties seem to have taken this view of
it, as is shown by the reply made by the Chicago bank, May
1st and 6th, to the Nqew York bank, when inquiring how the
account stood.
The counsel have argued as to the effect of mixing the
money of plaintiff with that of defendant. In the view we
take of the matter, there was no such admixture. It being
understood between the parties that, when the money was
received, it was to be held as an ordinary bank deposit, it
became by virtue of that understanding the money of the
defendant the moment it was received.
But let -as look for a moment at the equity of defendant's

Dec. 1864.J

MARINE BANK v. FTLTON BAiK.
Opinion of the court.

position. It receives this money when it is worth ninety
cents on the dollar. It places it with its other money; and,
perhaps, in the course of a week, all the specific bank bills
it then had on hand are paid out by it. It uses it in paying
the checks of its depositors, in other words, its debts at par.
It buys with it bills on New York, which it converts into
exchange worth a premium. But it continues to receive of
other parties this class of paper, though constantly depreciating. There is no legal necessity that it should do this. It
only does so with a view to its own advantage. When,
however, it proves to be a loss instead of a profit, the bank
says to the man whose money it had used profitably months
before, "I claim to impose this loss on you. I insist on the
right to pay the debt I owe you, not in the specific bank bills
I received from you, nor in those of the same value which
I received from you; but in bills of that general class,
although, while I hxve been using the money, they have
depreciated forty per cent."
If we are correct in these views, it would seem that the
relation of principal and agent was changed the moment
the money received was placed in the general fund of the
bank, and the plaintiff credited on its book with the amount.
Does the notice of the Marine Bank to its customers,
taken in connection with the other facts of the case, change
the relative rights of the parties as thus stated? The obvious
intent of the circular is to convey to correspondents the fact
of the great depreciation in value of the Illinois currency;
and to request them, if they are not willing to have their
notes paid in such' currency, to withdraw their collections.
This was just and fair between the parties, and was what
the collecting bank had a right to require. We think that
it justified that bank in receiving the Illinois currency, in all
cases where the notice had reached their correspondents and
no contrary orders had been received. If the Marine Bank
had thus received depreciated money, and kept it without
using it until called for, or had sent it by express to plaint4ff
it would have been relieved from further liability. In other
words, as long as the defendant retained strictly the characI,,

.

17

THE VENICE.

[Sup. CL.

Syllabus.

ter of agent, and acted within the principle laid down in the
circular, it was protected. But, as we have already shown,
the defendant changed that relation by using the money as
its own, and became the debtor of the plaintiff for the sum
collected.
The counsel for plaintiff in error raises the point, that the
action was trespass on the case for wrongfully receiving the
depreciated paper, and that the circular is a sufficient defence
to such a count. This is undoubtedly true, both as to the
nature of the action and as to the effect of the notice, and if
it had been in any manner made a point in the court below,
we do not see how we could avoid reversing the judgment.
But nothing of the kind was done. All the testimony was
received without objection. No instruction was asked of
the court by either party as to the effect of the testimony in
sustaining plaintiff's case, or as to the effect of the notice in
making good defendant's receipt of depreciated paper. On
the contrary, the only instruction prayed by defendant's
counsel recognizes the right to recover something with interest, and only raises the question of the measure of damages.* On that subject we think the instruction asked
was erroneous, and properly refiised. It is too late now to
object for the first time to the particular form of the action.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE VENICE.
1. The military occupation of the city of New Orleans by the forces of the
United States, after the dispossession of the rebels from that immediate
region in May, 1862, may be considered as having been substantially
complete from the publication of General Butler's proclamation of the
6th (dated on the ls) of that month; and all the rights and obligations
resulting from such occupation, or from the terms of the proclamation,
existed from the date of that publication.
2. This proclamation, in announcing, as it did, that "all rights of property" would be held "inviolate, subject only to the laws of the United
* See supra, p. 258.

