RAILROAD COMPANY

V.

SOUTTER.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

Spooner, and Hawes, to join in the conveyance of the real),
on repayment of the $2500, with interest, deducting $840,
with interest, received by the defendant, Horatio, for wood
standing on the land and sold. The cause remanded, with
directions to proceed accordingly.

GRIER and CLIFFORD, JJ., dissented.

MILWAUKIE AND MINNESoTA RAiLROAD COMPANY AND
FLEMING, APPELLANTS, V. SOUTTER, SURVIVOR.
An order of the Circuit Court, on a bill to foreclose a mortgage, ascertaining-in intended execution of a mandate from this court-the amount
of interest due on the mortgage, directing payment within one year,
and providing for an order of sale in default of payment, is a "decree"
and a "final decree," so far as that any person aggrieved by supposed
error in finding the amount of interest, or in the court's below having
omitted to carry out the entire mandate of this court, may appeal.
Appeal is a proper way in which to bring the matter before this court.

A DECREE had been made some time since in this court,
against the La Crosse and Milwaukie, and the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Railroad Companies, the road being then in
the hands of a receiver, on a bill in equity, filed in the Federal court of Wisconsin, to foreclose a mortgage given by the
former company on its road, &c., to two persons, named
Bronson and Soutter (of whom the former was now dead), to
secure certain bonds which the former road had issued, on
which the interest was unpaid.
The mandate to the court below, ran thus:
"It is ordered that this cause be remanded, &c., with directions to enter a decree for all the interest due, and secured by
the mortgage, with costs; that the courts ascertain the amount
of moneys in the hands of the receiver or receivers, from the earnings
of the road covered by the mortgage, which may be applicable to the
discharge of the inte-est, and apply it to the same; and that if the

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

441

Argument for dismissal.

money thus applied is not sufficient to discharge the interest
due on the first day of March, 1864, then to ascertain the balance
remaining due at that date. And in case such balance is not
paid within one year from the date of the order of the court ascertaining it, then an order shall be entered, directing a sale of
the mortgaged premises."
The court below, acting under this mandate and intending
to execute it, did ascertain the amount of interest due, and
directed payment within a year, and provided for an order
of sale in default of payment; but that court did not ascertain
the amount of money in the hands of the receiver or receivers, or
apply any such amount in reduction of interest, orfind the balance
due on the first of March, or at the date of the order. The
amount of interest was ascertained, and an order of sale
provided for in default of payment within one year; nothing
more.
From this order of the court below the railroad company
took an appeal here; which appeal a motion was made, on
behalf of Soutter & Bronson, to dismiss.
Mr. Cary, with whom was Mr. Carlisle, in favor of the motion: The order appealed from is not a final decree, nor in
the nature of such a decree. The ordinary decree of foreclosure and sale, although not strictly a final decree, has
been treated, in the practice of this court, as so far final that
an appeal might be taken therefrom. But this is not a
decree of foreclosure and sale. It is nothing more in effect
than an order settling the amount found due on the mortgage, and a statement or determination of the time when
the court will proceed to enter a final decree of foreclosure
and sale, provided said amount is not paid. It is not a decree authorizing a sale if that amount is not paid. The
court refused to make such a decree. This order, by its
terms, requires that another decree shall be made before we
are to have execution. To say that such a decree is final is
a contradiction in terms. We can have no execution or
benefit of this decree until a further and final decree is
made. No appeal, therefore, can lie to this court.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. CiL

Argument against dismissal.

No doubt the railroad company can have relief if it has
suffered injustice; but its remedy is by application for mandamus to vacate the order below.
Mr. Carpenter,contra: In Blossom v. The RailroadCompany,*
it was decided that a mere bidder at a marshal's sale, made
on a foreclosure of a mortgage, might by his bid, though no
party to the suit originally, so far be made a party to the
proceedings in that court as to be entitled to an appeal
here; and that, whether or not, this court would not dismiss
an appeal by such person on mere motion of the other side,
in a case where merits were involved. So, in Orchard v.
Hughes,t this court refused to dismiss an appeal from an
order confirming a sale under a decree of foreclosure, and
directed that the case should be heard with the appeal from
the principal decree in the suit which ordered the sale.
These cases, or the first of them, went further than what
was declared in Perlinsv. Fourniquet,jwhich goes far enough
for us. There a decree had been made in this court, affirming, "with costs and damages at the rate of 6 per cent. per
annum," a decree, in the Circuit Court of Mississippi, for a
sum of money; and a mandate was sent below reciting the
judgment here, and directing it to be carried into effect.
But an execution was issued for the principal sum, with
interest at 8 per cent., the legal rate of Mississippi, and
damages at 6 per cent., in addition, in all 14 per cent. An
appeal was accordingly taken here. One question was,
whether the execution had issued under a final "decree,"
and so one that could be appealed from. Taney, C. J.,
speaking for the court says, "There was substantially an
equity proceeding and final decree after the mandate was
filed. It is true, they were summary; and necessarily so,
as the matters in dispute under the execution were brought
before the court on motion. .

.

. Plenary and formal pro-

ceedings are not necessary, and are never required where
the dispute is confined to matters arising under process of
* I Wallace, 655.

t Id. 657.

+ 14 Howard, 330.

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUrXErR.

443

Opinion of the court.

execution. They are more conveniently and as fully brought
before the court by a summary proceeding on motion." The
case we cite was in essential respects like this; but the court
held it to, be "regularly" before it.
Then, is appeal the form of remedy which we should
adopt? or ought we, as the other side urges, to rely on a
motion for mandamus to vacate the order below? We think
that appeal is a proper form, and perhaps the most proper.
Here, too, Perkins v. Fourniquet is in point. The case there,
like this one, was an appeal, and a motion was made to dismiss it, on the ground urged hera by our opponents, that
appeal was not the proper practice, and that mandamus alone
was. But what decides the court? "The subject might,"
says the late Chief Justice, speaking for it, "without doubt,
be brought here upon motion, and a mandamus issued to
compel the execution of the mandate; but an appeal from
the decision of the court below is equally convenient and
suitable, and perhaps more so in some cases, as-it gives the
adverse party notice that the question will be brought before
this court, and affords him the opportunity of being pre-

pared to meet it at an early day of the term."
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court,
announcing that the order in questionwas a decree; and was
a final decree, from which any party aggrieved by supposed
error in finding the amount of interest, or in omitting to
ascertain and apply to the reduction or discharge of interest
the amount of moneys in the hands of the receiver or receivers, might appeal. The ruling of this court in -Perkins
v. Fourniquet,cited by the appellant's counsel, was a full, and
direct sanction to this conclusion.
MOTION DENIED.

NOTU.

For greater caution, :Mr. Carpenter, before this motion was
heard, had moved for a mandamus to vacate the already mentioned order of the Circuit Court. The appeal being, allowed,
that motion was of course refused; the Chief Justice, in announcing such refusal, saying that it was made without express-

UNITED STATES

v.

BILLING.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

ing any opinion as to the applicability of that remedy to the ease
before the court.
[For a further part of this case, and for the reasons and justification
(under the special facts) of the court below, in executing the mandate as it
did, see Railroad Company v. Soutter; infrfa, p. 510.]

UNrmT

STATES v. BILLIG.

1. The doctrine of United States v. Halleck (1 Wallace, 439), that the decrees
of the District Court on California land surveys under the acts of Congress are final, not only as to the questions of title, but as to the boundaries which it specifies, redeclared; and the remedy, if erroneous,
stated to be by appeal.
2. Appeals on frivolous grounds, from decrees in cases of California surveys,
in the name of the United States, acting for intervenors, under the act
of June 14, 1860, discouraged as being liable to abuse; since, on the one
hand, the party wronged by the appeal gets no costs from the Government; while, on the other, the Government is made to pay the expenses
of a suit promoted under its name by persons who may be litigious
intervenors merely.

TuE Board of Land Commissioners, established by act of
Congress of March 3, 1851, to settle private land claims in
California, confirmed, in 1851, to Billing and others, a tract
of land granted in 1839 by the Mexican Government to one
Felis.
The decree set forth the boundaries of the land essentially
as follows:
"Commencing at the mouth of the creek Avichi, emptying
into the Petaluma marsh, and running up said creek ten thousand varas, to a point called Palos Colorados; thence in a northerly direction five thousand varas, to a place marked by a pile
of stones; thence in an easterly direction to a place called Olympali, five thousand varas; from thence with the estuary, around the
Puntadel Potrero,on the estuary, to the place of beginning; contain
ing two square leagues, a little more or less."

