320

CASE V. BRwWN.

[6up. (it,

Statement of the case.

CASE

v. BRowN.

A claim for a combination of several devices, so combined together as to
produce a particular result, is not good as a claim for "any node oJ
combining those devices which would produce that result," and can only
be sustained as a valid claim for the peculiar combination of devices
invented and described. Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wallace, 553, affirmed and
applied.

AMOxG the inventions of our country that have assumed
great value-especially in the regions of the West, where
Indian corn is largely produced-are those known as COnNPLANTERS. The machine consists of a mechanism resembling somewhat, in external appearance, and in section view,
a high plough on wheels. It is drawn by a horse, while' a
man walks behind and manages it. The object is to plant
corn at spots, which spots shall be both equidistant and in
rows.
The corn to be planted is placed in a hopper or sort of
box, which is fixed in the body of the machine; and, at
proper intervals, as the machine is drawn by the horse, the
grains are permitted to enter and fall through a valve, at the
base of a short vertical spout, to the ground, another valve
being at the top of the spout. If the grains were permitted
to fall through the full length of the spout as the machine
passed on, by a valve at the top only of the spout, they would
not reach the ground exactly under the place at which the
valve was opened; inasmuch as in the interval of time that
the grain was descending through the spout, the machine
would have passed over a certain space of ground in being
drawn along by the horse. But, by employing two valves,
one opening into the upper end of the spout from the hopper,
and one at the bottom of the spout in close proximity with
the ground, correct dropping is insured; the forward motion
of the machine being compensated for by the double valves.
A certain Jarvis Case had invented one of these cornplanters, and took a patent for it in January, 1845. In this
patent he limited his claim to the particular combination of
parts which constituted his machine. In Nqovember, 185P,

Dec. 1864.]

OAs,

v.

BROWN.

Statement of the case.

he surrendered his patent and obtained a reissue with a more
expanded claim. That claim was thus:
"I claim, in combination with a corn-planting machine that is
constantly moved over the ground, and drops the grain intermittently, the so combining of two slides, one of which is at or near
the seed-hopper,and the other at or near the ground, or their equivalents, with a lever, as that the operator or attendant on the machine can open said slides at the proper time to deposit the seed
and prepare a new charge by the double dropping herein specified."

The cut below shows in section the combination or arrangement.

A is the hopper which carries the coni, B the seed-slide
or valve leading from the hopper to the seed-tube E, 0 is
the seed-cup in the seed-slide, D is the cut-off in the hopper,
E is the seed-tube, F is the slide or valve to seed-tube, G is
the hand lever by which the tubes are opened and closed in
the plaintiff's machine, H the recoil-spring by which the
slide-valves B and the valve F are simultaneously closed
when the hand is removed from lever G.*
4 This recoil-spring, H, relieved the operator from replacing or pushing
back the lever with his extended arm; a matter which, when to be performed many hundred times a day, makes a large demand on muscular
strength. With the recoil-spring, one muscular effort did the work of two.
VOL. II.

21

CASE

v.

BRaOWN.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

In this machine of Case's a lever G, of a peculiar form,
was used, which, by being pressed dlown, effected two operations, viz.: it carried the charge of grain out of the seedbox, and dropped it into the tube E, and it raised the slide
F to let out the previously dropped charge. Thus the same
operation that planted one charge put the next succeeding
charge in close proximity to the ground, so that it had but
a few inches to fall when the valve or slide F was opened.
About the same time that Case originally invented his
machine, a person named Brown invented one also, and got
a patent in May, 1855. The parties were independent inventors. In its essential features, Brown's machine differed
from Case's in not employing a lever having a weight or a
spring or automatic device to return it to its position and
close the valves, although the same final result, namely, the
simultaneous double dropping of the seed was accomplished
by one motion of the hand of the operator in both cases.
The cut below will exhibit the combination and arrangement
in this second invention.

A here represents the hopper carrying the grain, B the
slide-valve, and C the seed-cup between the hopper and the
seed-tube E, and F t1 3 slide-valve which permits the seed to
pass from the lowei end of the seed-tube to the ground.

Dec. 1864.]

CASE V. BROWN.
Statement of the case.

G is the lever. When the upper end of this lever G is
moved from the position shown in the drawing towards the
hopper A, it is evident that the grain-cup C would be carried over and discharged into the tube E, and the same
movement of the lever G would move the slide-valve F so as
to permit the grain which it retained at its lower extremity
to fall to the ground. Each movement of the lever, with this
double seed-tube, whether forward or back, produced a "drop."
Thus a similar double dropping of grain was accomplished
in this machine of Brown as was accomplished in the machine of Case; but there was no spring or automatic recoil
arrangement attached to the lever G, for restoring it to its
former position, as it is on the plaintiff's machine. It required to be worked by hand in both directions.
Case now sued Brown, in the Circuit Court of the Northern District of Illinois, for infringing his reissued patent.
The action was case. On this trial his counsel requested
t.he court to charge the jury"That the plaintiff, in and by his patent, claims any mode of
tombining a valve in the seed-tube, and a valve in the seedhopper, or their equivalents, with a lever, as that the operator
may by one operation,or the applicationof one muscularforce, carry
a charge of corn from the seed-hopper into the seed-tube, and
arrest it at the lower valve, and by the same operationor muscular
force, let out from the lower valve and drop into the furrow a
charge of corn, previously dropped and lying at the lower valve.
"That the plaintiff by his patent is not confined to the peculiar means of returningthe seed-slide which he has adopted in his
said model. That his claim covers any arrangement to operate
the valves and lever which will produce the result, although
he may not in the other machine employ the rock shaft and
weighted lever, or any automatic element. He may employ
some substitute for the automatic element, so that he by one operation, or the applicationof a single muscularforce applied to the
lever, drops from the lower valve, and supplies a new charge to
take its place, by the same operation or muscularforce so as afore
said applied to the lever, combined with the valve at the seed.
tube and the valve at the seed-hopper, or their equivalents."

CAssE v. BROWN.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

[As bearing on the interpretation asked for by defendant
and adopted by the court below, it is to be noted, that on
the question of the prior state of the art to the plaintiff's
invention, the defendant proved at the trial that a seedplanting machine had been invented and used to a limited
extent, and a description thereof filed in the patent office,
as early as 1852, by one Charles Finn, in which was combined the two slides and lever, for accomplishing the same
final result as in the plaintiff's machine. A sectional drawing of Finn's machine is given below, in which the corresponding letters are used as in the other two plates.

A, being the hopper, B the slide-valve, 0 the seed-cup,
E the seed-tube, F the slide-valve, and G the lever,-this arrangement agreed with the plaintiff's arrangement in nearly
every respect in which the defendant's machine did, and
differed from the plaintiff's in having no automatic recoil
attachment to the lever, such as a weight or spring.]
The court below refused to charge as requested by the
plaintiff, but charged in substance that the thing patented
to him, was a technical combination consisting of certain
elements, and that to constitute an infringement, all these
elements must be used by the defendant; that among these,
is that particular kind of lever G, described by the patentee,

Dec. 1864.]

OASE

v. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

which is so combined with a weight or spring, that when
the valve has been opened by the hand of the operator
moving the lever in one direction, the weight, acting through
the lever and moving it in the reverse direction, causes the
valves to close; and that unless the defendant's machine
employs a lever having the same mode of operation, that is to say,
the peculiar arrangement described by the patentee for
moving it in the reverse direction, or some other arrangement which is a mere mechanical equivalent therefor, the
patent is not infringed.
The language of the court as quoted exactly was this:
"In order to constitute an infringement, the whole combina
tion must be used, because he claims not the various parts, but
the whole combination together. The plaintiff cannot claim
what is called double dropping of corn,-that is a result or an
effect. He can only claim the double dropping by the particular
mode which he has devised. Any one can produce the same results by other and different modes, and still not violate the claim
of the plaintiff. In order to constitute a violation, there must
be a use of the same methods substantially as those adopted by
plaintiff. A mere change of form, for example, in the lever and
its mode of operation, the adoption of some equivalent suggested
by mere mechanical skill, would not prevent it from being an
infringement; otherwise, if the change were one of substance
and requiring the exercise of inventive power."
Thus the charge made the case turn on the question,
whether the defendant employed in his machine, as one element of his combination, a lever having the same mode of
operation as that of the plaintiff, to wit, having two motions
in opposite directions at every dropping, one produced by
the hand of the operator to open the valves, and the other
by an automatic arrangement to close them.
Of course, the charge was in opposition to the plaintiff's
request; and the jury having found a verdict for the de.
fendant, the case was brought by writ of error to this court.
Mr. Roberts, for Case, the plaintiff in error: The court erred

CASE v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for defendant in error.

in its charge by withdrawing the question of fact from the
jury, whether the machine of the defendant did not so combine the valve and lever as to produce the result substantially produced by the plaintiff's; as it manifestly did in
limiting them to the inquiry, whether defendant employed
a lever with such arrangements as required two motions to
plant each hill of corn.
The error was in construing the claim to be for a technical
combination, and resolving the device into its rudimental
parts, and inquiring whether the defendant used all of these
parts, and whether each part had a mode of operation substantially the same in the two machines. That this was an
error, numerous cases show.*
Mr. Goodwin, contra, for Brown: It is the duty of the
court to construe the patent on the maxim "'ut magis res
valeat quam ereat," and therefore in the course of a nisi prius
trial, the judge will apply to such construction the state of
the art, the surrounding circumstances in which the inventor
is placed, and the previous existence of some things mentioned or referred to in the patent, as developed on the
evidence.t
In order to distinguish the plaintiff's invention from that
of Finn, the judge was obliged to limit the claim as he did,
and in order to constitute a violation of the plaintiff's patent
thus construed by the court, it was necessary that a party
should use the whole combination, that is to say, the tubevalves and lever combined substantially in the same way as the
plaintiff had combined them, and if any one of the elements
necessary to constitute the entire combination were left out,
* Carver v.Braintree Manufacturing Co., 2 Story, 432; Winans v. Denmead, 15 Howard, 830; Wilbur v. Beeher, 2 Blatchford, 132; Foster v.
Moore, 1 Curtis, 279.
t Winans v. Denmead, 15 Howard, 338; Brooks v. Fiske, Id. 215; Hogg
v.Emerson, 6 Id. 437; Neilson v. Harford, Webster's Patent Cases, 350, 370;
Morris v. Barret, per Leavitt, J., Ohio, 1858; Whipple v. Middlesex Co.,
Sprague, J., Massachusetts, 1859; Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner, 485; Buck
v. Hermance, 1 Blatehford, 401.

Dec. 1864.]

CASE V. B3ROWN.
Opinion of the court.

then there was no infringement, leaving the question as to
the identity of the plaintiff's and defendant's machines fairly
to the jury.*
Under a new disguise, is not the question here raised
exactly the same as that involved in Burr v. _Duryee, decided
by this court but a year ago ?t If this is so, it would be
indecorous to discuss it. No case in the law of patents was
ever more ably discussed than that; the united sciences of
jurisprudence and mechanics having been brought as sister
lights, with memorable ability, to bear upon the matter in
issue. The court will remember the very able arguments
of ll the gentlemen; that one especially, as found in the report of the case, which we now beg to refer to, of Mr. George
Harding, of Philadelphia, who, for the sake of juridical
science in its application to the useful arts of the country,
was allowed almost to convert these precincts of the Law
into an Institute of Science. The case was not less ably
expounded from the bench in giving judgment in the case.
Overruling nothing, perhaps, the opinion there given did
.not the less dissipate a "bank of fog," which the learned
justice who gave it remarked, "that the subtle ingenuity
with which its principles were sometimes presented" had
involved the law of patents, and in which my learned
brother of the other side would now cover it again.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The error alleged is the refusal of the court to give certain instructions, the substance of which, when extricated
from the mass of verbiage with which it is encumbered,
seems to be, "that the plaintiff had a right to claim any
mode of combining" the various mechanical devices, in the
improved machine, which would produce the same effect or
result, as mere equivalents for those described in his patent.
The court refused to give this instruction to the jury; but,
on the contrary, instructed them in the language quoted
* Eames v. Godfrey, 1 Wallace, 78; Turrill v. lRailroad Co., Id. 491.

t I Wallace, 531.

HARVEY V. TYLER.

[8up. CLt

Syllabus.

in the reporter's statement.* The instruction there quoted
is a correct exposition of the law, and if it produced a verdict in favor of defendant, the plaintiff had no right to complain.
The plaintiff's original patent limited his claim, very properly, to the particular devices and combination of parts
which constituted his improved machine. But as this claim
was not broad enough to cover the improvement described
in defendant's patent, the plaintiff surrendered his, and had
it reissued with a more expanded claim. It is for the infringement of this reissued patent that the action is brought.
We have had occasion to remark, in a late case,t on this
new art of expanding patents for machines into patents for
"a mode of operation," a function, a principle, an effect or
result, so that by an equivocal use of the term "equivalent,"
a patentee of an improved machine may suppress all further
improvements. It is not necessary again to expose the fallacy of the arguments by which these attempts are sought
to be supported, though we cannot hinder their repetition.
LET THE JUDGMENT BE AFFIRMED.

HARVEY V. TYLER.
1. The court reprehends severely the practice of counsel in excepting to instructions as a whole, instead of excepting as they ought, if they except
at all, to each instruction specjflcally.

Referring to Rogers v. The MI'ar-

shal (1 -Wallace, 644), &c., it calls attention anew to the penalty which
may attend this unprofessional and slatternly mode of bringing instruc-

tions below before this court; the penalty, to wit, that the exception to
the whole series of propositions may be overruled, no matter how wrong
some may be, if any one of them all be correct; and when, if counsel
had excepted specifically, a different result might have followed.
2. Where a statute gives to county courts authority and jurisdiction to hear
and determine all cases at common law or in chancery within their respective counties, and "all such other matters as by particular statute"

Supra, p. 325.
- Burr v. Duryce, I Wallace, 535; see, also, MeCormac v. Talcott, 26
Uv9ward, 405.

