Vec. 1864.]

Tim

ANDROMEDA.

Statement of the case.

both when the schooner entered and when she left Calcasieu
Pass, is clear.
We think, also, that both ship and cargo were rightly
condemned by the District Court as enemies' property. It is
claimed that both belonged to neutrals resident in Nfew Orleans, and entitled to protection under proclamation,* and
the proof, to some extent, supports this claim; but both
were liable to be condemned as enemies' property, because
of the employment of the vessel in enemies' trade, and because of the attempt to violate the blockade, and to elude
visitation and search by the Bainbridge. On this latter
point, the language of Chief Justice Marshall, in Maley v.
Sattuek,t is express.
DECREE AF.IRME.

THE ANDROMEDA.
1 A vessel and cargo condemned as enemy property, under circumstances
of suspicion,-spoliation of papers in the moment of capture being one
of them as regarded the cargo, and a former enemy owner remaining
in possession as master of the vessel through a whole year, and through
two alleged sales to neutrals, being another, as respected the vessel,the alleged neutral owners, moreover, who resided near the place where
the vessel and cargo were libelled, handing the whole matter of claim
and defence over to such former owner as their agent, and giving
themselves but slight actual pains to repel the inference raised primA
face by the facts.
2. A libel in prize need not allege for what cause a vessel has been seized,
or has become prize of war, as ex. gr., whether for an attempted breach
of blockade or as enemy property. It is enough if it allege generally
the capture as prize of war.
B. A blockade once regularly proclaimed and established will not be held to
be ineffective by continual entries in the log-book, supported by testimony of officers of the vessel seized, that the weather being clear, no
blockading vessels were to be seen off the port from which the vessels
sailed.

ON the 20th of May, 1862, the schooner Andromeda, with
a cargo of cotton and hides, was captured off the coast of
t 8 Cranch, 488.

* The Venice. aupra, 185.
voL. n.

81

THE

[Sup. C't

AfNDROMIEDA.

Statement of the case.

Cuba by the Pursuit, a sloop-of-war of the United States.
The schooner at the time was bound to Havana, on a voyage
from the port of Sabine, in Texas, where she had received
her cargo. Being brought into Key West, she was libelled
by the District Attorney of the United States as "lawful
prize of war, and subject to condemnation and forfeiture as
such;" the libel, however, not stating for what cause she was
seized, or had become "lawful prize of war," as set up in
that document.
The manifest read thus:
EXPORT MANIFEST.

Manifest of the cargo on board the schooner Andromeda, of the burden of
229
TS5 tons, whereof J.H. Ashby is master, bound from Sabine Pass
to Havana.

Andromeda
Culmell.
Do.

Various.15971 597 bales cotton.
F v C. . 2911 291 hides.

Total amount, ....

.

. ...........

297,514 ponds. Chas. Careo& Co.
1,164 pounds.
do.
do.

$31,000 00
58 20

......

$31,05820

.

............

The bill of lading, described -Edmonson and Culmell as shippers of all the items of the cargo.
AS TO THE OWNERSHP OF THE CARGO libelled, as men-

tioned. The master of the vessel, Ashby, admitting that
ninety bales of the cotton belonged to him, set up that one
hundred belonged to a certain Culmell, "a native citizen of
Denmark," and for ten years resident in Texas, where he
was in trade as a partner of one Edmonson; and that the
remnainder of the cotton and all the hides belonged to Messrs.
Caro & Co., merchants of Havana, to whom they were consigned. Caro & Co. were French subjects. Culmell made
the same defence as to one hundred bales. Caro & Co.
gave a -power of ai-orney to the captain, to claim for them

Dec. 1864.]

THE ANDitOmED A.
Statement of the case.

as theirs, all the hides and the whole cargo, with the excep.
tion of the one hundred and ninety bales; but, notwithstanding that an order for further proof was granted to
allow them to exhibit proof of their ownership, they did not
themselves appear at Key West, nor take any more active
measures to protect their interests thus, by their answer,
set up.
Ashby himself, was examined in preparatorio. His answers were, that "he was born in New York,-now lives in
Louisiana,-owes allegiance to Louisiana and the Confederate States,-is not a citizen of the United States,-is married, and has a family in Louisiana." It appeared that he
bought and took possession of the vessel in October, 1860,
before the rebellion broke out; came soon afterwards to the
Gulf and New Orleans, in which city he was when the war
broke out, and which he left soon afterwards on the vessel
(now, according to his account, sold), as master, and had
been sailing sinc@ chiefly in those regions on her.
Just after the vessel hove to, and before the capturing
officers from the Pursuit came on board, the steward, one
Monsell, by order of Oulmell, who was on board, and at the
time with the captain, in the cabin, threw over a package of
papers. The captain swore that he did not know what they
were; the steward said, that he supposed they were newspapers. Culmell swore, that "the invoice and bills of lading
of the portion of the cargo owned by hinself, were thrown
over; he did not know who threw them overboard, but he
gave them to the steward on the day of the capture, with
orders to have them thrown overboard."
The vessel had left Havana on the 8th of March, 1862,
under the British flag, but with the American flag on board;
her destination having apparently been Matamoras. Her
cargo consisted of coffee, soap, oil, salt, candies, shoes, &c.;
and running the blockade, legal or ineffective, then established by our Government, she arrived at Sabine, March
16th. This cargo was delivered to Messrs. Edmonscn &
0ulmell, who received and sold it "on account of the sch. ner

484

THE ANDROMEDA.

[Sup. C.

Statement of the case.

Andromeda;" and their account showed a large balance "due
the schooner on the cargo."
The vessel was
AS TO THE OWNERSHIP OF THE VESSEL.
American built. Prior to the rebellion she had belonged
confessedly to Ashby, her now captain, who first saw her
at Bridgeport, Connecticut, in 1860. Soon after the breaking
out of the war he sold her, in May, 1861, at New Orleans,
according to his own sworn statement, to a certain Richard
Alleyn, described in the register as "of Baltimore, in the
county of Cork, Ireland, residing at the time in New Orleans," a British subject; and documents, attested by the
British consul at New Orleans, one Mure, showed that
various forms, indicative of a bond fide sale, had been gone
through with great regularity. Alleyn sold her in March,
1862, according to the account, to a certain Gerald Thomas
Watson, her now claimant. Watson was asserted to be a
merchant of Havana, and, like Alleyn, a British subject. He
was no doubt a British subject, but where he lived was not
so plain. In one consular paper he was described as of
"1No.52 Cornhill, London." Ashby remained all the time in
command of the vessel. In reply to a question under an order
allowing further proofs, he gave, under oath, a narrative,
substantially as follows, showing the motives of the transfer,
and the causes of his own continuing possession of her.
"To the fourth interrogatorythe witness answers: At the time
of the purchase by Alleyn, and her transfer to the English flag
and register, a blockade of the port of New Orleans was expected
to be laid in a few weeks. Alleyn resided in New Orleans. l-e
intended to send the vessel to sea in order that she might not be
useless property to him during the time the blockade should
exist. This witness was appointed to her command by Alleyn,
because he, the witness, was a person of some property, and
would be responsible to Alleyn in case of a mismanagement of
the vessel. On acconnt of the blockade, no owner could expect
to communicate with the vessel for a long term of time, and
would have to suffer her earnings to accumulate and remain in
the hands of her master. The witness, as master, sailed the

Dec., 1864.]

Tia A-NDiwOMEDA.
Statement of the case.

schooner for Alleyn upon a contract, by which the witness was
to have entire control and direction of the vessel; pay her entire
expenses; engage her in the most profitable trade possible, and
receive one-half of her earnings as a compensation,-a common
rate of contract and compensation for masters sailing vessels of
her class. Under this contract he sailed from New Orleans with
a cargo to Matamoras, in Mexico; remained there about a month;
discharged her cargo; and there being no freight for vessels
there at that seaaon he sailed in ballast to Havana, in Cuba, and
endeavored to obtain freight there, but was unable to do so for
three months, at the expiration of which time he obtained a
cargo of sugar and molasses for New York, at low rates for
freight, with which be proceeded to New York, where the
schooner was seized by the Federal authorities under the allegation that she was liable to confiscation under the provisions
of the act of Congress of July 18, 1861, but was soon afterwards
released. The witness returned to Havana with a general cargo
of merchandise, and was unable to procure another freight for
a long time. The expenses of the vessel thus accumulating
rapidly, and she earning nothing, induced the witness, on receiving an offer of purchase from the claimant Watson, to
accept the same, which course he believed was for the interest
of her owner, Alleyn. One of the conditions of the sale was,
the witness should be retained in command until the new
owner should find some person who would sail her at lower
rates of compensation. This stipulation was attached because
this witness was cut off from New Orleans by the blockade,
and had no remunerative employment, and for no other reason.
In accordance with the stipulation, the witness took command
of the schooner, and was to receive for pay five per cent. of the
entire and gross charges for freight upon cargo carried by said
vessel while he remained in command."
The log-book of the vessel was put in evidence, and the
entries read from March 8, 1862, to the date of her sailing
from Sabine, 10th of May, and indeed till the capture. Constantly throughout the log, with entries of "the pumps now
working well," or the reverse of it; how the day "came in;"
and how ended "these twenty-four hours;" that the ship
"kept the Sabbath" on Sundays, and "took in cotton,"

486

THE ANDROMEDA.

LSUP. C

Argument for the claimants.

"took in hides," during the week;-" lower hold full,",were entries like these during the time she was in the harbor
of Sabine,-a port which commands a view of the ocean:
"No blockade in sight, fine weather."
"No blockading vessel off."
",No blockade off, clear weather." "No blockade off the bar, fine and
pleasant day." "iNo vessel in sight, clear day, wind from south."
Day

commences with fine weather, no blockading vessels in sight." "Saw no
blockading vessels, clear, with breeze from south and southeast." "No
blockade in sight, pleasant weather."

And Culmell and Ashby, and the steward Monsell, alike
swore that they saw no blockading vessels at any time; and
that the vessel had not attempted, so far as they knew of,
to go in or come out of any port when it was blockaded.
Noting that Caro & Co., though of Havana, had taken
no further interest in the proceeding at Key West, near to
them, than to sign a power of attorney to Ashby, the District Court considered that the claim set up by or for these
persons to the bulk of the cargo, "was an attempt to cover
up hostile property by the use of neutral names;" and that
the whole cargo, except the portions claimed by Culmell
(plainly confiscable), belonged to Ashby; that Ashby, too,
was owner of the vessel; of which "his all along continuing
in the command, notwithstanding the alleged sale by him to
Alleyn, and by Alleyn afterwards to Gerald Thomas Watson," was a. pregnant proof. That court accordingly condemned vessel and cargo. The question before this court
was, whether the condemnation was warranted.
Messrs. Gillet and 1everdy Johnson, for the claimants, contended that there was no sufficient evidence to condemn either
cargo or vessel in total at all. A portion of the cargo is
admitted to have belonged to Culmell, and some to Ashby;
but the bulk of it stood on a different footing, and should
not be condemned. Nothing could be argued from the
destruction of papers beyond the fact that Culmell owned a
portion (which fact is admitted), and was fearful about this,
his part, hoping to save it. Caro & Co. are not touched.
There is, therefore, as to the bulk of the property, no evidence of enemy's property at all.

Dec. 1864.]

TnE ANDROMEDA.
Opinion of the court.

As respected the vessel, the narrative given by Captain
Ashby, on oath, in answer to the fourth interrogatory, was
remarkably clear, and had internal indications of truth.
Moreover the libel is defective in form. It ought to specify
for what offence supposed to be committed the vessel is claimed
as prize of war', whether for breaking blockade or as enemies' property, or for what else? This generality of accusation belongs to no good system of law. It is "the sending
of the prisoner, and not withal signifying the crime laid
against him,"-a matter which we have high authority to
declare "unreasonable."
Besides, there was no properly
maintained blockade at Sabine. No blockaders could be seen
for days and days. No nation has set itself more forcibly
against paper blockades than the United States. Our natural
duty and permanent interests are to support the rights of
neutrals. We need not enlarge on a topic which was enforced
with eloquence by counsel at this term in the case of The
Circassian.* Our country has already given the world gxeat
lessons. In public law it remains for us to carry out the
defence of neutral rights to their true dignity. This is the
distinction which awaits us.
Lower views also would control this matter. We must not
attempt to enforce doctrines against Great Britain and France
that we are not willing to have applied to ourselves; nor
while maintaining our present interest, teach instructions
which will but return to plague the inventors.
M1Ur. Coffey, special counsel of the United States, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not disputed that the cargo consisted of Texan products. Prior to shipment, then, it was enemy property.
The manifest of the cargo, found on the schooner when
captured, shows that five hundred and ninety-seven bales of
cotton, valued at thirty-one thousand dollars, and two hundred and ninety-one hides, valued at fifty-eight dollars and
* See supra, p. 147.

488

Tim ANDROMEDA.

[Sup. O(t

Opinion of the court.

twenty cents, were shipped at Sabine, in May, 1862, "by the
Andromeda, Culmell," and consigned to Charles Caro & Co.,
at Havana. Of this cargo, Ashby, the master, says that
ninety bales of cotton belonged to himself, and one hundred
to Culmell, and that the remainder of the cotton, four hundred and seven bales, and all the hides, belonged to Caro &
Co., who, he says, are neutral merchants, residing in Havana. Culmell says the same. Culmell was a rebel enemy,
residing in Texas. Ashby left N~ew Orleans in the Andromeda soon after the breaking out of the war, and from that
time to the capture was in command of her, engaged in the
Gulf trade, and the greater portion of the time with the rebel
territory. He says of himself, that he was born in New
York; lives in Louisiana; owes allegiance to Louisiana and
to the Confederate States, and is not a citizen of the United
States. His acts and declarations prove him a rebel enemy.
There can be no question, therefore, that the cotton, when it
became the property of Ashby or Culmell, or both, was
enemy property. There is nothing in the record to support
the statements of those persons, as to the ownership of Caro
& Co. On the contrary, there is much to discredit them.
There is nothing in the manifest which shows any distinction of ownership; and it is proved that a part belonged to
Ashby and Culmell. The cotton and hides appear to have
been purchased with the proceeds of the merchandise
brought by the Andromeda to Sabine; and there is nothing
before us, except the bare statement of Ashby, that the
schooner was chartered by them for Matamoras, which
affords the slightest indication that Caro & Co. had any interest whatever in that merchandise; while the account of
sales is not with them, but with "schooner Andromeda and
owners."
Besides these facts, another circumstance is of much
weight. It appears from the record that Caro & Co., though
residing at Havana, only a hundred miles from Key West,
where the District Court was held, never appeared there
during the proceedings in prize, never manifested any concern in the result beyond the mere signing of a power of

Dec. 1864.]

THE ANDROMEDA.
I
Opinion of the court.

attorney, authorizing Ashby to claim in their name. The
court below very properly gave much consideration to this
circumstance. In connection with the other facts mentioned,
we think it fully warranted the conclusion, that no part of
the cargo belonged to Caro & Co., and that the original
enemy character of the whole of it remained unchanged at
the time of capture.
The enemy character of the vessel is quite as clearly
proved. She was originally the property of Ashby, a con-.
fessed rebel enemy, and, according to his statements, of
others who, in the absence of any allegation to the contrary,
must be presumed to have been, also, rebel enemies. By
Ashby she was sold, as he asserts, to one Alleyn, said to
have been a neutral residing in New Orleans. But there
was no change of possession. Ashby remained in full and
absolute control, both of her use and disposal, and afterwards
sold her, under the asserted authority of A.lleyn, to one
Watson, alleged to have been a neutral residing in Havana.
Still, however, there was no change of possession, control,
or employment. There is not the slightest evidence that
either of the alleged sales was real, except the unsupported
statement of Ashby. That statement under the circumstances can carry no conviction with it.
The condemnation both of vessel and cargo seem to us,
therefore, well warranted.
Were there any doubt, it would be removed by the destruction of papers proved to have been committed both by
Ashby and Culmell, the real owners, as we think, of the
schooner and her lading. Monsell, the steward, states that
"after the vessel was hove to, and before the officer came
aboard from the Pursuit," Culmell gave him a package of
papers, which he believed to be newspapers, and told him
to throw them overboard, which was done. He says, that
Ashby and Culmell were in the cabin together when this
direction was given. Ashby admits that the charter-party
of the voyage was destroyed before the capture, and that
some papers were thrown overboard, he did not know what.
Culmell confesses that the invoices and bills of lading of the

THE

ANDROMEDA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

portion of the cargo owned by himself, were thrown over.
board. Now, when it is remembered that the only bill of
lading in the record describes all the cotton as shipped by
Edmonson & Culmell, the significance of this confession becomes manifest; for if the bill of lading destroyed was, as it
must have been, one of three of like tenor and date with the
one found by the captors, then, if this statement be true, all
the cotton was owned by Culmell. If, on the other hand,
the statement be false, and the papers destroyed were other
than as represented, then their destruction and the destruction of the charter-party authorize, under the circumstances,
an absolute inference of enemy property, against both vessel
and cargo.
We think the proof that the Andromeda and her cargo
were liable to capture and condemnation for breach of
blockade, equally clear; but, as we do not place our decision
on that ground, we refrain from any remarks upon that
aspect of the case.
No objection was made in argument to the sufficiency of
the libel in the District Court. It would be enough to say
of this objection, that the libel shows a case of prize, and
that is sufficient for jurisdiction. All other exceptions are
too late here. But the libel is beyond all exception. The
rule is, that a libel in prize must allege generally the fact of
capture as prize of war, and the libel in the record is in
conformity with this rule.
The decree of the District Court must be affirmed.
1TELSON, J. The proofs in the case, I think, fairly lead
to the conclusion, that Ashby, the master of the Andromeda, was the real owner of the vessel, and that the sales
by himself and others, in May, 1861, at New Orleans, to
Alleyn, and by himself as attorney for Alleyn to Watson, at
Havana, in March, 1862, were colorable; and, if Ashby
was a resident and inhabitant of New Orleans, at the time
of the capture of that port and city by our forces, on the last
days of April, 1862, as seems to be assumed, there would be
ground ibr claiming that he was entitled to the benefit and

Dec. 1864.]

KUTTER

V.

SMITH.

491

Syllabus.

protection of General Butler's proclamation of the 1st of
May following; and, also, to the effect of that capture upon
the status and property of the inhabitants of the captured
city.*

The view I have taken of the proofs in the case, do not
involve these questions.
Ashby left the city of New Orleans in this vessel soon
after the breaking out of the war, and before the establishment of the blockade, and has never returned to it. During
all this time and down to the seizure of the vessel, 26th of
May, 1862, he has been in command of it, and engaged in
the Gulf trade; and the greater portion of the time with the
rebel territory. In answer to the first interrogatory, in preparatorio,he says, "that he was born in New York; he now
lives in Louisiana, and owes allegiance to Louisiana and the
Confederate States; is not a citizen of the United States."
In answer to the fourth interrogatory, under an order allowing further proofs, he says that he left New Orleans with
the vessel anticipating a blockade, that she might not become useless property, and that he did not expect to communicate with that city while the blockade continued. The
proofs, as we have seen, show how he has been engaged
during all this period.
On the above ground, I agree that the vessel was properly
condemned in the court below, as enemy's property; and,
also, the cargo, which the court have adjudged belonged to
him.
D
DECREE A IBLE.

KUTTER v. SMITH.
1. The law imposes no obligations on a landlord to pay the tenant for buildings erected on demised premises. The innovation on the common law
rule that all buildings become part of the freehold, has extended no
farther than the right of removal while the tenant is in possession.
See aupra, p. 268 The Venice; also, The Baigorry; preceding case.-

