THE ANN CAROLINE.[

[Sup, ot

Statement of the case.

The question on the construction of the treaty of 1860, as
to whether the grants to the chiefs and interpreter were to
be located within that portion of these lands which was reserved for their "permanent home," or in that portion
which was to be sold for their use, would be also fatal to the
claim of appellant. But the decision of the other points in
the case make this one only hypothetical, and, as it is a
question not likely to ever arise again, we think it unnecessary to vindicate our opinion by arguments.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE ANN CAROLINE.
1. The ordinary and settled rule of navigation, that when two vessels are
approaching each other on opposite tacks, both having the wind free,
the one on the larboard side shall give way and pass to the right, does
not apply when one is to the windward of the other, and ahead of or
above her in a narrow channel, so that an observance of it would probably produce a collision.
2. Stipulators in admiralty, who have entered into stipulations to procure
the discharge of a vessel attached under a libel for collision, cannot be
made liable for more than the amount assumed in their stipulation as
the amount which the offending vessel is worth, with costs as stipulated
for.
8. The true damage incurred by a party whose vessel has been sunk by collision being the value of his vessel, that sum (without interest) was
given in a proceeding in rem., where the value of the offending vessel
was fixed in stipulations that had been entered into to procure her discharge at that identical sum.

THIs was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, in a
case of collision at sea,-the case being thus:
The owner of the schooner J. C. Wells filed a libel in
admiralty in the Southern District of New York against the
schooner Ann Caroline, to recover damages for a collision
occurring on the eastern shore of the Delaware Bay. The
two vessels were beating up the bay of a fine morning in
Febriuary, 1854, in company with several other vessels, and

Dec. 1864.]

THE ANN CAROLINE.
Statement of the case.

were just now between "Crow Shoal" and the Jersey shore,
a passage in the bay where the channel is about a mile wide.
The wind was N. N. W., a five or six knot breeze, "a fullsail breeze," the tide, flood, setting up the bay. The day
being clear, nothing obstructed observation up and down the
bay, except the transit of the various vessels across it. The
Wells was closehauled on her larboard tack, which was a
long tack from Crow Shoal to the Jersey shore. The Ann
Caroline closehauled on her starboard tack on the opposite
course from the Jersey shore to Crow Shoal. ,The Wells
was heavily laden; the Ann Caroline in ballast. The two
vessels had tacked at the Crow Shoal, upon the long tack,
nearly at the same time; the Caroline at the time being to
the leeward of the Wells and somewhat astern of her. The
Ann Caroline ran out but one-half or two-thirds of her course
when she suddenly came round on her starboard tack in
consequence, of a vessel ahead suddenly tacking and obstructing her course. While, on this course she came in
collision with the Wells, striking her on her starboard side,
about ten or fifteen feet from her taffrail, opening her side
so that she sank to the bottom of the channel in a few
minutes, and was totally lost.
The main ground upon which the defence of the Ann
Caroline rested was, that she was on the starboard or privileged tack, and that it was the duty of the Wells to give
way and pass to her right. This rule of navigation was
admitted on the other side; but. it was insisted that it had
no application to a case where the relative position of the
two vessels was. such as was here made out It was contended for the Qwner of the Wells that she was to the windward of the Caroline, and ahead or above her in the channel, and that if this rule had been observed, and the Wells
had ported her helm, a collision would have been inevitable;
that the change of course would have brought her head
against the starboard side of the Caroline, and that a proper
manceuvre in the -emergency was to starboard her helm,
which she did, and which would have avoided the other vesPel if qhe had not ported her helm at or about the same time,

THE ANN CAROLINE.

[Sup. (i

Statement of the ease.

and so done that which caused her to strike the Wells on
her starboard side, but a few feet from her stern.
One controlling question in the case therefore was, whether
or not the Wells was to the windward, and so far above the
course of the Ann Caroline, before the two vessels came
together, as to forbid the application of the settled rule of
navigation, that when two vessels are approaching each other
on opposite tacks, both having the wind free, the one on the
larboard tack shall give way and pass to the right.
The proofs were voluminous, and the testimony of the
master and hands on board the respective vessels as usual in
this class of cases was contradictory-those of the Wells
contending that the course of the Caroline was to the leeward and southerly of that of their vessel, while those on
the Caroline insisted that her course was to the windward
of the Wells. But, in addition to the witnesses on the two
vessels themselves, it so happened that four other witnesses
(masters and hands upon two other vessels engaged at the
same time in beating up this channel, and who were on the
same tack with the Wells, but to the leeward and a little to
her stern), witnessed the collision and the course of the vessels previous to the accident. These confirmed the testimony of the master and hands of the Wells as to the course
and relative position of the two vessels. The Circuit Court
accordingly made an interlocutory decree that the libellant
recover "the loss and damages by him sustained by reason
of this collision;" and it was referred to a commissioner "to
ascertain the amount of such loss or damage."
The commissioner reported that the damages sustained by
the libellant were:
1. The loss of his vessel, the Wells, whose value he fixed at .
. $5000 00
2. Interest rom the day of the collision and loss to th7t of filing ae
reor, November 12, 1860,
.
.
2862 60

$7862 S0

This being excepted to, the Circuit Court recommitted
the report. The commissioner now made a second report,

Dec. 1864.]

THE

ANN CAROLINE.

Statement of the case.

in which, finding, as before, the value of the Wells to be
$5000, he took another basis of damages and gave the libellant:
1. The value of the Ann Caroline, which was estimated by the
commissiqner at
.
$8500 00
2. The freight pending on her cargo,
513 00
8. Interest on the freight and value of the Caroline to the date of
the second report, October 7, 1802,
2431 43
$6444 48

It is necessary here to state that, after the marshal of the
United States attached the Ann Caroline, her claimants
and the owner of the Wells, by agreement, filed of record,
fixed her value at $5000, and that stipulators entered into
stipulations reciting the attachment, value fixed, "as appears
from said consent, now on file in said court;" and "agreeing that, in case of default or contumacy on the part of the
claimants or their sureties, execution for the above amount
may issue against their goods, chattels, and lands:" on which
the vessel was discharged. A stipulation was also filed for
costs, to the extent, however, of but $250.
The Circuit Court entered a decree on the basis of the
second report. The decree
ORDERED, that the libellants recover against the

schooner Ann Caroline and claimants (the sum
awarded by the commissioner), ..
With interest from the date of the commissioner's
report,
..
Together with their taxed costs,
In all,

$6444 48
26 81-$6470 74
731 77
$7102 51

And that "a summary judgment be, and the same is hereby entered, for
the amount aforesaid against the stipulators,&c. ;" and, unless an appeal was
entered, that execution issue against the claimants and them.

From this decree both parties appealed. The libellant
objecting because, as he said, the damages allowed were less
than he was entitled to recover, the Ann Caroline having
been valued by the commissioner but at $3500, instead of
at $5000, as it ought to have been, that having been the

542

THE ANN CAROLINE.

[Sup, (t

Opinion of the court.

value agreed on by the claimants themselves. And the
claimants objecting because, as they said, the Wells was in
fault and nothing was due; or if she was not, and anything
was due, it could not possibly exceed $5000, the amount
fixed by consent as the value of the Ann Caroline; and for
which sum, and no greater, the stipulators had -agreed to be
contingently bound. The libellants asserted, moreover, that
the first report of the commissioner, which gave them the
value of their own vessel, the Wells-which, by the fault of
the claimants' vessel, had been sunk--and interest from the
date of that loss, was the true rule.
.Mr. Benedictfor the libellants; Mr. Donohue, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, in a cause of collision, civil and maritime.
Damages are claimed in this case by the libellant on ac.
count of a collision which occurred on the 11th day of February, 1854, in Delaware Bay, between the schooner John C.
Wells, bound on a voyage from New York to Philadelphia,
and the schooner Ann Caroline, bound on a voyage from
New York to Smyrna, in the State of Delaware, whereby
the former was run down and sunk in the bay, and became
a total loss. Libel was filed by the owner of the John C.
Wells on the twenty-fourth day of February, 1854, and the
owners of the Ann Caroline on the sixth day of December
following appeared and filed their answer. Both parties
took testimony in the District Court, and, after the hearing,
a decree was entered dismissing the libel, and the libellant
appealed to the Circuit Court. Additional testimony was
taken in the Circuit Court and the parties were again heard,
and, after the hearing, a decree was entered reversing the
decree of the District. Court, and a decree was entered in
favor of the libellant. Whereupon both parties appealed to
this court.

Dec. 1864.]

THE

ANN CAROLINE.

Opinion of the court.

I Libellant objects to the decree because, as he says, the
damages allowed are less than he is entitled to recover; and
the claimants object to it because, as they say, the libellant
is not entitled to recover anything. Claimants' vessel was
sailing in ballast, but the vessel of the libellant was deeply
laden with a cargo of assorted merchandise. They both
sailed from the port of New York on the day previous to
the collision, and the evidence shows that they both came to
anchor during the night, in company with some fifteen or
twenty other schooners, at a well-known anchorage outside
of Cape May. Evidence also shows that they both got
under way on the following day about one or two o'clock in
the afternoon, and at the time of collision were beating up
the channel, between what is called Crow Shoals and the
Jersey shore. Most or all of the other vessels got under
way about the same time, and were also beating up the bay
in the same general direction. Proofs show that the wind
was north-northwest, blowing "a full-sail breeze," and that
the tide was an hour flood setting up the bay. Course of
the vessels when they first got under way at the anchorage
was on the long tack towards the Jersey shore, and it appears
that both the vessels were put upon that course. Beating
out that tack they then came about and stood towards the
buoy, near the lower end of the shore, on the western side
of the channel. Master of the Wells testifies that his vessel
went so near the shoal before tacking that she stirred the
mud with her centre-board or keel. Vessel of the claimants
was more to the leeward, and it appears that her course was
changed before she approached so near to the shoal. Pathway of the libellant's vessel was near the shoal, but the vessel of the claimants was some distance to the leeward and
somewhat astern. Having beat out that tack without any
difficulty, and without anything have occurred to indicate
that they were in danger of colliding, they both went about
and were again put on the long tack towards the Jersey
shore, and the proofs are full to the point that they were
both sailing on about the same course. Claimants' vessel
being to the leeward, and both vessels being closehauled on

544

THE ANN CAROLINE.

[Sup.

t,

Opinion of the court.

the wind, there could not be any danger that they would
come together. They were both upon the larboard tack
and were heading about north-northeast. Remark should
be made that most or all of the other vessels had tacked
at the buoy and were beating up the channel on the same
course. Weight of the evidence also shows that all of
them, except one, was to the leeward, and most of them
were astern of the vessel of the libellant. Such was the
state of things when the Ann Caroline suddenly and unexpectedly, as alleged in the libel, went about and was put
upon the starboard tack, on a course directly towards the
injured vessel. Excuse for the sudden change in her course,
as alleged in the answer, is, that a schooner ahead of her
having tacked, it became necessary for the vessel of the
claimants to go about before she had beat out her larboard
tack. Reasons of the alleged necessity are not stated, and
the proofs offered in support of the allegation are unsatisfactory; but it is not proposed to place the decision upon that
ground, as it is not made certain that the allegation is untrue. Allegation of the libellant is, that the change was
sudden and unexpected, and the evidence leads to the same
conclusion. When the vessel of the claimants went about
she was put upon a course heading west by north; and as
the course of the libellant's vessel had not been changed, it
must have been evident to every attentive observer that a
collision was inevitable unless one or the other gave way.
Sailing as they were in a clear day, with nothing to obstruct
their view, although in a narrow channel less than a mile
wide, it is clear that there can be no just excuse for the disaster, and consequently there is fault on one side or the
other.
II. Theory of the claimants is that inasmuch as their vessel had come round on to the starboard tack, it was the duty
of the vessel of the libellant to give way and pass to her
right. General rule of navigation undoubtedly is that a vessel on the starboard tack, if closehauled, has a right to keep
her course, and that one on the larboprd tack, although she
is also closehauled, must give way or be answerable for the

Dec. 1864.]

THE ANN CAROLINE.
Opinion of the court.

consequences.* But it is insisted by the libellant that the
rule has no application to the relative position of the two
vessels, as shown by the evidence in this case. His proposition in that behalf is that his vessel was to the windward of
the vessel of the claimants, and so far ahead of her in the
channel that if those on board his vessel had observed the
general rule and ported her helm, a collision would necessarily have followed. Granting that the position of the two
vessels was such as is assumed by the libellant, then it is
clear that the rule of navigation under consideration cannot
apply, and that the views of the libellant are correct.
Proximity of the libellant's vessel to the shoal was such that
it rendered it unsafe for those in charge of her to attempt to
go about, because the danger was, if they should do so, she
would be wrecked on the reef. She could not, therefore,
starboard her helm and go about, and if as assumed by the
libellant, she was ahead of the claimants' vessel and to the
windward, then it is clear that she could not be required to
port her helm and attempt to go to the right, as in doing so
she would have to cross the bows of the vessel astern, and
must incur the imminent danger of colliding with the vessel
of the claimants.
ITT. Principal question of fact therefore, is whether the
theory assumed by the libellant is correct, because it is obvious that if the facts are so, the conclusion deduced from
them must follow. Two controverted facts are assumed in
the proposition of the libellant. 1. That his vessel was to
the windward. 2. That she was ahead in the channel. Argument is not necessary to show that the libellant is right
on the first point, as the whole current of the evidence when
properly understood is that way, but there is much conflict
in the testimony on the second point. -Where the conflict
of testimony in respect to a disputed fact is between the
witnesses on board the respective vessels, and no others
are examined in the case, it is sometimes difficult to form
any satisfactory conclusion.

No such embarrassment, how-

* St. John v. Paine et al., 10 Howard, 581.
VOL. U.

85

THE ANN

CAROLINE.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

ever, arises in this case, as there were four witnesses examined who were 'on board the other vessels in the same
company. Those witnesses concur in the statement, not
only that the vessel of the libellant was to the windward of
the claimants' vessel, but that she was above her in the
channel; and in view of the whole case, we adopt that conclusion as the correct one from the evidence. The vessel of
the claimants was also in fault because she had no lookout,
and the evidence tends strongly to the conclusion that the
disaster is mainly attributable to that cause. Testimony
shows beyond controversy, that she had no lookout at tho
time of the collision, and that the master, after the vessel was
put abmit and filled away on the starboard tack, went below,
and when he came on deck just before the disaster occurred,
he inquired, with evident displeasure, if no one had seen the
vessel of the libellant, and it is clear that he had abundant
reason for dissatisfaction. Usual precautions were then too
late, and in a very short time the vessel of the claimants
struck that of libellant, and the latter sunk in the channel.
Plainly the vessel of the libellant could not avoid the collision, because if she had attempted to go about she would
have gone on the reef, and if she had ported her helm, and
attempted to go to the right, she would have collided with
the vessel of the claimants. On the other hand, it is clear
beyond doubt, that the vessel of the claimants might have
avoided the disaster without any peril. She might have
gone about, as she had ample room to do, or she might have
starboarded her helm, and gone under the stern of the other
vessel. For these reasons we think the conclusion of the
Circuit Court was right upon the merits.
IV. The rule of damages adopted by the court is the subject of complaint on both sides, and as both parties nave
appealed, the whole matter is open to revision. Sum allowed was seven thousand two hundred and two dollars and
fifty-one cents, and the court ordered a summary judgment
against the stipulators for that amount. Interlocutory decree
was that the libellant recover the amount of the loss and
damages by him sustained by reason of the collision, and

Dec. l864.]

TiE ANN CAROLINE.
Opinioh 'of the coirt.

the 'catise Was referred to a commissioner to asceitain the
amount. 'Commissioner reported that the value of the vessel was fitb thousand dollars, and that the interest on the
same to the date of the report, was two thousand three hund'recl a'd si±ty-two dollars and fifty tents, and he accordingly
reported the ajox int of those two sums as the damages in
the tause. Exceptions were filed by the claimant to that
report as follo~vs:
1. That the sum reported 'as the value of the Vessel was
too much.
2. Thabt the 'cbmmissionerkerred in allowing interest.
8. That the tule 'of damages adopted was orroheous: that
the amount should not exceed the value 'of the claimants'
vessel and fr-eight pending.
4. That the 'commissioner erred in 'examining testimony
as to the value -of claimants' vessel.
Circuit judge sustained 'the third and fourth exceptions,
and recomamitted the report. Subsequently, the 'commissione- made a second report. In his second report he
found:
1. That the value of the vessel 'ofthe libellant was five
thouisand dollars, and that by reason of the collision she was
a total loss.
2. That the vessel of the claimants was worth the sum of
thirty-five hundred dollars.
3. That the freight pending on the cargo of the claimants'
vessel waA five hundred and thirteen dollars.
4. That the interest on the freight and value of claimants'
vessel was two thousand four hundred and thirty-one dollars
anA forty-three 'cents.
Accordingly he reported as due to the libellant the aggregate 'of those several sums. Both parties excepted to the
report, but the court overruled their exceptions and cotfirme'a the report, Which was the foundation of the final
decree, which is for the same amount.
Libelant insists that the first report of the commissioner
was correct, that is, that he is entitled to recover the value

THE ANN CAROLINE.

[Sup. ¢t.

Opinion of the c6urt.

of his vessel together with the interest on that amount from
the time of the collision to the date of the decree. On the
other side the claimants insist that the stipulation for value
under the general rules of the admiralty, stands in the place
of the vessel, and that the decree as against the stipulators
cannot exceed the amount of the stipulation. Separate
stipulations are usually filed for costs, and the same rule, it
is admitted, applies to such a stipulation as to the one given
for the value of the vessel. Stipulation for costs in the sum
of two hundred and fifty dollars was regularly filed by the
claimants in this case at the time they entered their appearance. Such a stipulation is properly required as a condition
of the right to appear, unless the claimant, under the act of
the third of March, 1847, had given the bond to the marshal
therein mentioned for the discharge of the property arrested
at the time of the service of the monition.* Suit in this case
was in ren, and consequently the vessel, when arrested, was
in contemplation of law in the possession of the court. But
the practice is where the claimant desires to regain the possession to allow the value of the same to be ascertained, and
when that is done according to law, the claimant may file a
stipulation for that amount in the place of the vessel. When
the claimant desires to secure the possession of the vessel,
he may apply to the court for an appraisement, or if the
parties agree upon a sum as the value, the court may adopt
that sum, and accept a stipulation for that amount. Parties
in this case agreed that the value of the vessel was five
thousand dollars, and thereupon the court accepted a stipulation for that amount, and the vessel was delivered to the
claimants.t Obligation of a stipulator is the same as that
of a surety, and consequently his liability is limited by the
terms of his contract. Whenever the obligation of the
stipulator is for a definite sum named in the stipulation, the
surety stipulating to pay that sum cannot be compelled to
* 9 Stat. at Large, 181; 2 Conklin's Admiralty, 94, 97; Admiralty
Rules 26 and 34.
t Admiralty Rule U1; 2 Conklin's Admiralty, 96; Lane v. Townsend et
al., Ware, 300.

Dec. 1864.]

THE ANN CAROLINE.
Opinion of the court.

pay more than that amount.* Same rule prevails whether
the instrument is in form a bond or stipulation. Where a
claimant in a suit in rem made application for a delivery of
the property, and obtained it by an order of the court upon
giving a bond to suspend the appraised value, Judge Story
held that the bond was good as a stipulation, and having
affirmed the decree condemning the vessel, ordered that
judgment should be entered against the signers of the bond
as stipulators for the appraised value of the vessel with costs.t
Mr. Benedict says, that where a party is entitled to have the
property delivered on bail, he is bound to stipulate with
sureties to pay the full value of the property. Such value,
says the same author, may usually be fixed by consent and
agreement of parties, but if not, then it is ascertained by an
appraisement, and on final decree the stipulators are bound
to pay into court the sum ascertainedas the value.t
Bail is taken, says 1Mr. Dunlap, for the value of the ship
upon the delivery of the property, and it will not lie reduced
upon the ground that the property brought less upon a sale
than the appraised value.§ Settled rule is, that where the
value of the vessel condemned in a cause of damage is insufficient to pay the loss, it is not competent for the court to
awaid damages against the owner beyond the value or proceeds of the ship.II But it has been held that costs might be
awarded against the owner where there was an appearance
and hearing, although no stipulation to that effect had been
given.
Rule in admiralty, however, is the same as at law, that
sureties are only bound to the extent of the obligation ex.
pressed in their bond, but not beyond its plain and obvious
meaning.**
* Godfrey v. Gilmartin, 2 Blatchford, 341; Admiralty Rule 11.
t The Alligator, 1 Gallison, 1491.
Benedict's Admiralty,
498, p. 279; Dunlap's Practice, 181; The
Octavia, 1 Mason, 150.
Dunlap's Practice, 174; The Peggy, 4 0. Robinson, 887.
" The Hope, 1 "W Robinson, 155.
The John Dunn, 1 Id. 160.
** Tho Harriet, 1 Id. 192.

THE M ORNING LIGUT.

[Sayi. etL

Statement of the case.

True measure of damages in this case was the loss which
the libellant sustained by the sinking of his vessel, which, as
the commissioner reported, was five thousand dollars. He
lost that amount, and there is no proof in the case that he
lost anything more, for which any claim is made in the libel.
Stipulation for value filed by the claimants was for that sum,
and consequently the libellant is entitled to a decree against
the stipulators for that sum, as the value of the vessel and
no more, because they never agreed to be bound for any
greater sum.
Argument of the libellant is, that he is entitled to nterest
on that sum as against the stipulators for value, but it is a
sufficient answer to the proposition to say that this c.ourt has
expressly decided otherwise, and we adhere to that decision.*
Separate stipulation was filed for costs, and, of course, the
libellant is entitled to full costs in the District and Circuit
Courts, unless the amount exceeds the sum specified in the
stipulation. He is, also, entitled to a decree of affirmance
upon the merits, but without costs in this court, and the decree of the Circuit Court must be modified as to the damages
so as to conform to views expressed in this opinion.
THE DECREE AFFIRMED AS MODIFID.

THE MORNING LIGHT.
1. A vessel astern of another cannot be held in fault for not complying
with the rule which obliges the rear vessel to keep out of the way of
one ahead, when it is so darr that the latter vessel cannot be seen by
the former.
2. As a general rule, there is no obligation on a sailing vessel proceeding
on her voyage to shorten sail or lie to because the night is so dark that
an approaching vessel cannot be seen.
8. A collision resulting from the darkness of the night, and without the
fault of either party, is an "inevitable accident."

from the decree in admiralty of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
About the 6th of August, 1855, the brigs Jerry Fowler and
APPEAL

* Hemmenway v. Fisher, 20 Howard, 258.

