FREEBORN

V.

S-[uITt.

[Sup. CL,

Opinion of Nelson J., dissenting.

referred to as evidence of its continuance to that period.
But I think it will be difficult to maintain the position upon
any principle of international law, that the belligerent may
continue a blockading force at the port after it has not only
ceased to be an enemy's, but has become a port of its own.
It is not necessary that the belligerent should give notice of
the capture of the town, in order to put in operation the
municipal laws of the place against neutrals. The act is a
public event of which foreign nations are bound to take notice, and conform their intercourse to the local laws. The
same principle applies to the blockade, and the effect of the
capture of the port upon it. The event is public and notoriu, and the effect and consequences of the change in the
state of war upon the blockading force well understood.
I have felt it a duty to state the grounds of my dissent in
this case, not on account of the amount of property involved,
though that is considerable, or from any particular interests
connected with the case, but from a conviction that there is
a tendency, on the part of the belligerent, to press the right
of blockade beyond its proper limits, and thereby unwittingly aid in the establishment of rules that are often found
inconvenient, and felt as a hardship, when, in the course of
events, the belligerent has become a neutral. I think the
application of the law of blockade, in the present case, is a
step in that direction, and am, therefore, unwilling to give
it my concurrence.
[See infra, p. 258, The Venice; a case, in some senses, suppletory or complemental to the present one.]

FREEBORN V. SMITH.
1. When Congress has passed an act admitting a Territory into the Union
us a State, but omitting to provide, by such act, for the disposal of cases
pending in this court on appeal or writ of error, it may constitutionally
and properly pass a subsequent act making such provision for them.
2. This court will not hear, on writ of error, matters which are properly
the subject of applications for new trial.

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

8. Parties cannot give private conversation or correspondence with each
other to rebut evidence of partnership with a third person.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Nevada
Territory.

Smith had obtained a judgment against Freeborn and
Shelden in the Supreme Court of Nevada; Nevada being at
the time a Territory only, not a State. To this judgment a
writ of error went from this court, under the law organizing the Territory, and the record of the case was filed here,
December Term, 1862. After the case was thus removed,
the Territory of Nevada was admitted by act of Congress,
March, 1864, into the Union as a State. The act admitting
the Territory contained, however, no provision for the disposal of cases then pending in this court on writ of error or
appeal from the Territorial courts. Mr. Cope and Mr. Browning, in behalf of the defendants in error, accordingly moved to
dismiss the writ in this and other cases similarly situated,
on the ground that the Territorial government having been
extinguished by the formation of a State government in its
stead, and the act of Congress which extinguished it having,
in no way, saved the jurisdiction of the court as previously
existing, nothing further could be done here. The Territorial judiciary, it was urged, had fallen with the government,
of which it was part; and the jurisdiction of this court had
ceased with the termination of the act conferring it. Hunt
v. Palao,*and Benner v. Porter,twere relied on to show that
the court had no power over cases thus situated.
It being suggested by Mr. O'Connor and Mr. Carlisle on the
other side, or as interested in other cases from Nevada similarly situated, that a bill was now before Congress supplying the omissions of the act of March, 1864, the hearing
of the motion for dismissal was suspended till it was seen
what Congress might do. Congress finally acted, and on
the 27th of February, 1865, passed " An Act providing for
a District Court of the United States for the District of
Nevada," &c.
t

* 4 Howard, 589.
vOL. It.

1

9 Id. 235

FREEBORN V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The eighth section of this enacts," That all cases of appeal or writ of error neretofore prosecuted and now pending in the Supreme Court of the United
States, upon any record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nevada, may be heard and determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States; and the mandate of execution or of
further proceedings shall be directed by the Supreme Court of
the United States to the District Court of the United States for
the District of Nevada, or to the Supreme Court of the State of
Nevada, as the nature of said appeal or writ of error may re
quire; and each of these courts shall be the successor of the Su
preme Court of Nevada Territory as to all such cases, with full
power to hear and determine the same, and to award mesne or
final process thereon."
The motion to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction
was now renewed.
Assuming jurisdiction to exist, this case of Smith v. Freeborn, &c., was argued also on a question of merits. The
judgment mentioned at the beginning of the case, which
Smith had obtained against Freeborn and Shelden, he had
obtained against them as secret surviving partners of a certain Shaw. One ground of the writ of error was that no
evidence whatever had been offered of a partnership with
Shaw between Freeborn and Shelden (a matter which was
more or less patent on the record); and that judgment
having gone against both (two jointly) and error as to one,
the judgment would have to be reversed. A motion had
been made and refused below for a new trial.
There was also another question of merits. To rebut the
evidence of partnership, the defendants offered some letters
between themselves and Shaw, and between themselves and
one Eaton, an agent of theirs; which letters, though containing, as was urged, some admissions against their own
interest, the court below refused to let go in evidence to disprove a partnership.
Its action on these two points was one matter argued, but
the great question was that of jurisdiction, a matter affecting
other cases as well as this.

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V.

SMITH.

Argument for the motion.

Messrs. Cope and Browning for the motion to dismiss, i~c.:
1. As to the jurisdiction, our position is that the act is a
retrospective enactment interferingwith vested rights. Certainly
it attempts to confer on this court jurisdiction to review
judgments which, by law, at the time of its passage were
final and absolute. The necessary result of maintaining it
would be to disturb and impair these judgments, unsettle
what had been previously settled, and compel the parties to
litigate anew matters already definitively adjudicated. There
is no higher evidence that rights have vested than a final
judgment solemnly confirming them. Law is defined to be
a rule of conduct; and to call an enactment which undertakes to deal with past transactions, and subject them to new
requirements and conditions as tests of their legality, a rule
of conduct, is to confound all rational ideas on the subject.
.Expostfacto laws are expressly prohibited by the Constitution, but the courts would hardly enforce enactments of this
nature even in the absence of any constitutional prohibition;
because, being retrospective, and providing for the punishment of acts not illegal when committed, they are not laws
in the true sense of that term, and not, therefore, within the
sphere of legislative authority. The principle is entirely
applicable to civil causes, and prevents any injurious intermeddling with past transactions. Legislative power begins
and ends with the power to enact laws, and in respect to the
conduct of men in their dealings and obligations, and in the
acquisition of property, no valid law can be enacted which
undoes or unsettles that which was legally done or settled
under a previous law.
The validity of enactments of this character has frequently
been denied. In Merrillv. Sherburne,* Woodbury, J., says:
"Acts of the legislature which look back upon interests
already settled or events which have already happened, are
retrospective, and our Constitution has in direct terms prohibited them, because highly injurious, oppressive, and unjust. But perhaps their invalidity results no more from this
* 1 New Hampshire, 213.

FREEBORN

V. SMITH.

[Slip. (Ct.

Argument for the motion.

express prohibition, than from the circumstance that in their
nature and effect, they are not within the legitimate exercise
of legislative power." After speaking of ex post facto laws,
he adds: "Laws for the decision of civil causes made after
the facts on which they operate, ex jure post facto, are alike
retrospective, and rest on reasons alike fallacious." In Bates
v. Kimball,* Aikens, J., says: "The principle meant to be
laid down is that an act not expressly permitted by the Constitution, which impairs or takes away rights vested under
pre-existing laws, is unjust, unauthorized, and void." In
Stanford v. Barry,t Prentiss, J., in referring to the decision
in Bates v. Kimball, and the reasoning on which it was based,
says: "The case appears to have been maturely considered,
and was decided on principles and authorities which are
conclusive of the question. We have only to add, that the
principles adopted have become settled constitutional law,
and are universally recognized and acted upon as such, by
all judicial tribunals in this country. They are found in the
doctrines of learned civilians, and the decisions of able
judges, without a single decision, or even opinion or dictum
to the contrary. They not only grow out of the letter and
spirit of the Constitution, but are founded in the very nature
of a free government, and are absolutely essential to the
preservation of civil liberty, and the equal and permanent
security of rights." In Lewis v. Ilebb,t Mellen, C. J., lays
it down as a settled rule, "that a law retrospective in its
operation, acting on past transactions, and in its operation
disturbing, impairing, defeating, or destroying vested rights,
is void, and cannot and must not receive judicial sanction."
In lfcCabe v. Emerson,ยง Rogers, J., after stating that it
could not be presumed that the legislature intended to give
the act under consideration a retrospective effect, says:
"But granting that intention to be clearly expressed, I have
no hesitation in saying that the act is unconstitutional and
void. The legislature has no power, as has been repeatedly
held, to interfere with vested rights."
* 2 Chipman, 88.
t 3 Greunleaf. 335.

t 1 Aikin, 314.
18 Pennsylvania State, II1.

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V. SMITH.
Argument for the motion.

We do not question the validity of retrospective statutes
that are purely remedial, that give a remedy without disturling or impairing rights. Whenever they attempt to
interfere with a right, however, the legislature has passed
the bounds of its authority, and the acts are void.
The court is here asked to review a judgment on which
the law has already pronounced its final sentence. The act
of Congress just obtained, concedes that the judgment has
become final,.but declares that it shall not remain so, and
deprives the parties of any benefit from it until the matters
settled by it are again adjudicated. If it be possible for a
right to attach itself to a judgment, it has done so here, and
there could not be a plainer case of an attempt to destroy it
by legislative action. It is unimportant, of course, that the
court ever had jurisdiction; if it proceed at all, it must proceed under the jurisdiction conferred by the act, and not
under that which it formerly had. The case stands as if 'the
judgment had been rendered by a court of last resort.
2. In passing the act Congress attempted to exercise power
judicial in its nature, and not legislative. If this is so, it
will follow as a necessary conclusion that the act is void.
What distinguishes judicial from legislative power? It is
that the one is creative and the other administrative; the
one creates or enacts laws by which the community is to be
governed, and the other administers those laws as between
the members of which the community is composed. Those
matters of which the courts assume jurisdiction, and particularly those appertaining to the trial and determination
of causes, are clearly and necessarily the subjects of judicial
power. Such matters include all of the proceedings in a
cause from its commencement to its termination, and it is
certain that within these limits no other than judicial power
can be exercised. Filing a complaint, summoning and empannelling a jury, rendering a verdict or judgment, glanting
or refusing a new trial, taking an appeal or suing out a writ
of error, are all acts pertaining to the jurisdiction of the
courts, and within the operation of this power. They must
be doue in pursuan e of sonie 1w tirecribed b3 legislative

166

FREEBORN V. SMITE.

[Sup. (L

Argument for the motion.

authority, but considered merely as acts done, or to be done,
in the progress of a cause, a legislative body has no power
or control over them, either to command the doing of them,
or to set them aside when done. No one will deny that
rendering a judgment is strictly a judicial act, and it is evident that the power exercised in rendering it must also be
exercised in setting it aside, for the act of setting a judgment
aside, like the judgment itself, is simply a proceeding in the
cause. And so as to every act that may be done in a cause,
from its inception to its close; it is merely a proceeding in
the cause, and is purely judicial in its nature. There is no
difference in this respect between one act or one proceeding
in a cause and another, they are alike judicial in. their nature, and exclusively the subjects of judicial power. If one
such act may be done or undone by legislative authority,
there is no reason why the same authority may not be employed to do or undo every act throughout the proceedings.
The question ceases to be a question of power, and becomes
one of discretion only.
In Merrill v. Sherburne, the question was as to the validity
of a statute granting a new trial after final judgment, and in
Bates v. Kimball, and Lewis v. Webb, as to the validity of
statutes granting an appeal where the judgments had also
become final. It was held, in all the cases, that the statutes
were unconstitutional and void, that their effect was to take
away the -legal force of the judgments to which they applied,
and that in respect to these judgments they amounted to
orders or decrees, which the courts alone were competent to
make. These cases were decided not only on reasoning the
most conclusive, but on authorities of the highest respectability and weight.
The act of Congress undertakes to grant an appeal or
review in certain cases, in which there was no right of
review at the time of its passage. The cases had been
prosecuted as far as they could be under the law as it then
stood; and if they may be prosecuted farther now, it is
because Congress has the power to open the judgments, and
direct the matters in controversy to be tried anew. The act

Ilec 1864.]

FREEBORN V.

SA1iTn.

167

Argument against the motion.

operates as a judicial order in each of the cases to which it
applies.
Moreover, how can Congress authorize this court to issue
its mandate to a State court in a matter which is of State
jurisdiction? It would be plainly unconstitutional to do so.
Perturbations of our whole judicial system would arise; and
no one could calculate the extent of the disaster.
IT. Respecting merits. The case is here short and easy.
1. As to the first point, this court cannot review the evidence on which a jury found.
2. As to the second, there was no error in refusing to let
parties make proof in their favor out of correspondence
between one another, and between themselves and their
agent.
Messrs. O'Connor and Carlisle, with brief of Mr. Billings,
contra.
I. As respectsjurisdiction.
1. Independently of the act of Congress of 27th February,
1865, how does the case stand?
The Territorial government is said to have been extinguished by the formation and establishment of a State
government in its stead. Admitting this, does it necessarily
follow that all acts performed by any department of the
Territorial government down to the last moment of its existence, must, by the annihilation of their author, become irreversibly enforceable forever? We think not.
If a tribunal, hastily gotten up in one of the newly created
Territories, has given a judgment involving millions, in utter
violation of law, equity, reason, and conscience, must that
judgment stand irreversible, establishing the right forever,
merely because the court that gave it was in articulo mortis
at the time, and expired shortly afterwards? Again we
think not.
The Territorial government has been superseded, not by
a direct declaration of the legislative will to that effect, but
merely as a necessary consequence of a new government
having ai isen in its stead. The Territorial judiciary fell

FRPEEBORN V.

8MITI.[

LSup. Ot.

Argument against the motion.

with the government of which it was a part; but the Supreme Court of the United States never was any part of the
Territorial government. It did not cease to exist when the
State of Nevada was admitted, nor did it lose its power, in
fact or in law, to annul a definitive judgment of the Territorial court which was unlawful, and which, however unlawful, must, nevertheless, until reversed, form a bar to justice
between the parties in any earthly tribunal.
It is said that no mandate can go to the Territorial court
of Nevada announcing a reversal here because no such court
exists. Granted; but is such a process indispensable to the
existence of power here, or to the efficacy of this court's
judgment in all courts and places? Surely not.
No further proceeding can be had in the Territorial courts
by either plaintiffs or defendants; but the plaintiffs may
bring a new action in the State courts. To such action the
judgment, heretofore rendered in the now extinct courts
of Nevada, would, indeed, be primd facie a bar. But such
bar would be at once raised, and every impediment to legal
justice removed, if the plaintiffs should produce a record
of this court showing that the judgment of the Territorial
court was here reversed. It could not be said that the decision of this court was nugatory because it had failed to
announce its reversal to the extinct tribunal whose judgment it reversed. "This reversal was not to depend on any
act to be performed, or opinion to be given by the court
below; but stood absolute by the judgment of this court."*
There is no repeal of the Territorial act. It remains a law,
valid and operative for the purpose of giving efficiency and
force to all things done under its authority. The assertion
that it is superseded is only partly true. The Territorial
government, with its departments, is, indeed, gone; but the
power of vacating errors committed in those departments
which, in a lawful and constitutional way, was vested in any
still existing officers of the United States, is not necessarily
superseded.
Davis v. Psckard, 8 Peters, 323: S. P. Wobter v.Reid, 11 Howard, 457.

bee. 1864.1

864.]ORN V. SMITl.
tiec.REEB
Argument against the motion.

We do not perceive any difficulty even in removing a
judgment to this court after the admission of the State.
The record remains a valid paper in the hands of an officer
whose duties, except as custodian of the records, have
ceased.* And it is settled that the writ of error to remove
a record may go to the place where the record is lawfully
deposited, and to the court or officer having lawful custody
of it. There is no necessity that it should go to the tribunal
which pronounced the judgment sought to be reversed.
We think it is not correct to say that the act creating
Nevada Territory is repealed or abrogated. Nothing can
be done under it which is inconsistent with the subsequent
governmental action of the United States in admitting the

State of :Nevada; but this is the whole extent to which it
has become inoperative. The jurisdiction of this court to
reverse the judgmAents of the Territorial Supreme Court remains.
2. How does the case stand under the act of 27th February,
1865 ?
This act is in substantial conformity with former legislation of Congress, which has been passed upon and approved
by this court. - After the State of Florida was admitted into
the Union on February 22d, 1847, an act was passed directing "that in all cases in which judgment or decrees have
been rendered in the" late Territorial courts of Florida, "and
from which writs of error have been sued out or appeals have
been taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, the
said Supreme Court shall be and is hereby authorized to hear
and determine the same."t Under that act, this court exercised appellate jurisdiction in Benner v. Porter.$ By a supplemental act, passed February 22d, 1848,ยง it was enacted
that the provisions of said act of 1847, "so far as may be,
shaL be, and they hereby are, made applicable to all cases
which may be pending in the Supreme or other superior
court of and for any Territory of the United States, which
* Benner v. Porter, 9 Howard, 246.

t 9 Howard, 246.

t 9 Stat. at Large, 129, 8.
9 Stat. at Large, 212, a 2

FREEBORN

V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the motion.

may hereafter be admitted as a State into the Union, at the
time of its admission, and to all cases in which judgments
or decrees shall have been rendered in such Supreme or superior court at the time of such admission, and not previously
removed by writ of error or appeal." The first section of this
same act of 1848 applied in terms the remedy thus contemplated to the like cases in the Territorial courts of Iowa.
Under this first section of the act of 1848, this court took
cognizance of a writ of error in an ordinary land case, not
of peculiar Federal cognizance, issued after Iowa had been
admitted as a State, and thereupon reversed the judgment
of the Territorial court of Iowa in Webster v. Reid.*
As a palliative of the consequences plainly resulting from
the doctrines of the defendant, it is intimated that Congress
might have done all that was necessary in the enabling act
under which Nevada came in as a State; but having let slip
that opportunity, no remedy can now be applied. But
1. This assumes the much debated and very disputable
position that Congress, when admitting a State into the
Union, may impose special conditions upon that favor, and
place her in a position inferior to that of her elder sisters.
2. It also assumes that, in retaining or exercising authority to cause a review of judgments pronounced by its own
judges in its own courts, the Federal Government would
exercise a jurisdiction over matters and questions properly
of State cognizance. Such is not the fact. It only reverses,
if erroneous, and approves, if right, the acts of its own
officers.
The authorities to the contrary of the doctrine thus set
up are numerous. It is neither an exercise of judicial power
nor an invasion of vested rights. It is merely a legislative
regulation of judicial practice. There is no such thing as
a vested right in a wrong-doer to evade the exercise ofjudi..
cial power.t -Bull v. CalderT is an early leading case. The
* 11 Howard, 437.

t Watkins v.Holman, 16 Peters, 60, 61; Schenley v.Commonwealth, 86
Pennsylvania State, 29; Rich v.Flanders, 39 New Hampshire, 817, 820-326
$Dallas, 386.
8

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V.

SMITH.

Reply for the motion.

United States v. Sampeyrac,* is a later one. It was held in
this last case that Congress might confer jurisdiction, and at
the same time might ratify and legitimate an action already
commenced in a court which, until the act in question, had
no jurisdiction of the matter. The doctrine of vested rights
never restrains a legislature from advancing justice or remedying wrongs. It is intended to prevent oppression and injustice, not to afford them an impunity.
I.

-

As to merits.

1. Is it shown upon the record that Freeborn and Shelden
were partners with Shaw? Our objection is on this point,
that there was absolutely no evidence tending to show that
such a partnership existed. The court ought not to have
submitted to the jury the question of fact whether such partnership existed. It follows that if the court can correct the
error below upon the record, the judgment must be reversed.
Because it is familiar law that where there has been judgment against two (jointly), and there is error as to one, the
judgment must be reversed.
2. The remaining point arises upon the rejection of certain evidence offered by the defendants, to wit, letters and
telegraphic messages from Shaw (the real debtor) to the parties charged as partners in this suit, and now plaintiffs in
error. These letters contained admissions against interest,
and should have been received.
.Reply: Two cases in this court are cited as militating
against the general principles we assert: Galder v. Bullt
and the United States v. Sampeyrac.j But neither really
does so.
Calder v. Bull arose on a statute of Connecticut allowing
an appeal from a judgment rendered by a probate court of
that State, the time for appealing under the law as it stood
previously having expired. The statute was passed prior to
the adoption' of a State constitution, and it was shown to
* 7 Peters, 222.

t" 3 Dallas, 386.

J17 Peters, 222.

FREEBORN V. SMITH.

[Sup. CL

Reply for the motion.

have been the custom of the legislature from a very early
period to enact laws of this nature, and exercise a general
control over the judiciary in respect to new trials and ap-

peals. The grounds urged against the statute were that it
was a judicial and not a legislative act, and that it contravened the clause of the Federal Constitution prohibiting the
passage of ex post facto laws. The decision of the court was
in favor of its validity, but the judges wrote separate opinions, and assigned different reasons for their conclusion.
As to the first ground, some of them held that it was immaterial, there being no provision in the Constitution preventing the legislature of a State from exercising judicial powers.
Others held that whether the statute be regarded as judicial
or legislative, it was justified by the ancient and uniform
practice of the legislature, and should be maintained. It
was unanimously agreed that the prohibition referred to
only applied to criminal enactments, and that a State statute
affecting civil rights merely was not within it. This was the
whole case, and the decision certainly has no effect upon the
principle contended for here.
The case of the United States v. Sampeyrac brought in
question the validity of an act of Congress extending the
provisions of a previous act, so as to enable the Territorial

courts of Arkansas to entertain bills of review on the part
of the United States in cases of forgery and fraud. No interference with vested rights was contemplated by the act,
the effect of which was simply to invest certain tribunals
with equitable powers not possessed by them before, to be
exercised in a class of cases over which the ordinary jurisdiction of courts of equity has always extended. It is a part
of the general jurisdiction of these courts to investigate
matters of fraud, and grant relief to the parties injured by
them; and it was, of course, competent for Congress to
confer this jurisdiction on the courts of Arkansas. It did
this, and nothing more, leaving those courts to proceed in
accordance with the settled principles governing courts of
equity in such cases. It was on this ground mainly that the
,ourt suslained the act, holding in respect to the merits of

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V. SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

the case that the judgment in question was fraudulent, and
that no rights had vested under it. The decision, theiefore,
is not in point.
It may be that, in Benner v. Porter,* this court assumed
jurisdiction of an appeal given by an act of this nature; but
it seems to have done so without argument, and without
any consideration of the question of the power of Congress
to pass the act. Under such circumstances, the case should
not be regarded as conclusive; and the question should be
treated as an open one, and determined upon its merits.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The most important question of this case is that of jurisdiction.
It is objected to the act of 27th February, just passed, that
it is inefictual for the purpose intended by it; that it is a
retrospective act interfering directly with vested rights
that the result of maintaining it would be to disturb anc.
impair judgments which, at the time of its passage, were
final and absolute; that the powers of Congress are strictly
legislative, and this is an exercise of judicial power, which
Congress is not competent to exercise. But we are of opinion that these objections are not well founded.
The extinction of the Territorial government, and conversion of the Territory into a State under our peculiar institutions, necessarily produce some anomalous results and questions which cannot be solved by precedents from without.
It cannot be disputed that Congress has the exclusive
power of legislation in and over the Territories, and, consequently, that the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction
over the courts established therein, "under such regulations
as Congress may make."t In the case of Benner v. Porter,$
it is said: "The Territorial courts were the courts of the
General Government, and the records in the custody of their
clerks were the records of that Government, and it would
seem to follow necessarily from the premises that no one
* 9 Howard, 235.

f Constitution, Art. 3.

1 9 Howard, 235.

FREiEBORN V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

could legally take possession or custody of the same without
the assent, express or implied, of Congress." The act of
22d of February, 1848, chapter 12, which provides for cases
pending in the Supreme or superior court of any Territory
thereafter admitted as a State, made no provision for cases
pending in this court on writ of error or appeal from a Territorial court. In the case just mentioned, we have decided
that it required the concurrent legislation of Congress and
the State legislature, in cases of appellate State jurisdic.
tion, to transfer such cases from the old to the new government.
The act of Congress admitting the State of Nevada omitted to make such provision, although the Constitution of
Nevada had provided for their reception. Now, it has not
been and cannot be denied, that if the provisions of the act
now under consideration had been inserted in that act, the
jurisdiction of this court to decide this case could not have
been questioned.
By this omission, cases like the present were left in a very
anomalous situation. The State could not, proprio vigore,
transfer to its courts the jurisdiction of a case whose record
was removed to this court, without the concurrent action of
Congress. Until such action was taken, the case was suspended, and the parties left to renew their litigation in the
State tribunal. What good reason can be given why Congress should not remove the impediment which suspended
the remedy in this case between two tribunals, neither of
which could afford relief? What obstacle was in the way of
legislation to supply the omission to make provision for such
cases in the original act? If it comes within the category
of retrospective legislation, as has been argued, we find
nothing inthe Constitution limiting the power of Congres3
to amend or correct omissions in previous acts. It is well
settled that where there is no direct constitutional prohibition, a State may pass retrospective laws, such as, in their
operation, may affect suits pending, and give to a party a
remedy which he did not previously possess, or modify an
existing -emedy, or remove an impediment in the way ol

Dec. 1864.]

FREEBORN V.

SITIirn,

Opinion of the court.

legal proceedings.* The passage of the act now in question
was absolutely necessary to remove an impediment in the
way of any legal proceeding in the case.
The omission to provide for this accidental impediment
to the action of this court, did not necessarily amount to the
affirmance of the judgment, and it is hard to perceive what
vested right the defendant in error had in having this case
suspended between two tribunals, neither of which could
take jurisdiction of it; or the value of such a: right, if he
was vested with it. If either party could be said to have a
vested right, it was plaintiff in error, who had legally
brought his case to this court for review, and whose remedy
had been suspended by an accident, or circumstance, over
which he had no control. If the judgment below was erro
neous, the plaintiff in error had a moral right at least to
have it set aside, and the defendant is only claiming a vested
right in a wrong judgment. " The truth is," says Chief
Justice Parker, in Foster v. Essex Bank,t "there is no such
thing as a vested right to do wrong, and the legislature
which, in its acts, not expressly authorized by the Constitution, limits itself to correcting mistakes and to providing
remedies for the furtherance of justice, cannot be charged
with violating its duty, or exceeding its authority." Such
acts are of a remedial character, and are the peculiar subjects of legislation. They are not liable to the imputation
of being assumptions of judicial power.
The constitutional difficulty attempted to be raised on the
argument, that Congress cannot authorize this court to issue
a mandate to a State court, in a mere matter of State jurisdiction, is factitious and imaginary. It is founded on the
assumption, that all the questions which we have heretofore
decided are contrary to law, and is but a repetition of the
former objections which have been overruled by the court
under another form of expression. For if it be true, as we
* See Hepburn v. Curts, 7 Watts, 800, and Shenly v. Commor wealth, 86
Pennsylvania State, 57.
f 16 Massachusetts, 245; and see Rich v. Flanders, 89 New Hampshire,

325.

176

FREEBORN V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

have shown, that Congress alone had the power of disposing
of the Territorial records, and providing for the further remedy in the newly organized courts-if it requires the concurrent legislation of both Congress and the State to dispose
of the cases in the peculiar predicament in which this case
was heard-if Congress had, as we have shown, the power
to remove the impediments to its decision, and remit it to a
State court authorized by the constitution of the State to
take cognizance of it, they must necessarily regulate the
conditions of its removal, so that the parties may have their
just remedy respectively. If a State tribunal could not take
possession of the record of a court removed legally to this
court, nor exercise jurisdiction in the case without authority
of Congress (as we have decided), without the legislation of
Congress, they must necessarily accept and exercise it subject to the conditions imposed by the act which authorizes
them to receive the record. This court would have the same
right to issue its mandate as in cases where we have jurisdiction over the decisions of the State courts, under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, and for the same reasons,-be.
cause we have jurisdiction to hear and decide the case.
II. Having disposed of the question of jurisdiction, the
case presents no difficulty.
As to the case made on the motion for a new trial: our
decision has always been, that the granting or refusing a
new trial is a matter of discretion with the court below,
which we cannot review on writ of error.
The single bill of exceptions in the case is to the refusal
of the court to receive certain letters in evidence. The defendants were charged to have been partners of one George
N. Shaw, or to have held themselves out to the public as
such. This was the only issue in the case. To rebut the
plaintiffs' proof, the defendants offered a correspondence
between themselves, and some letters to them by one Eaton,
their agent. It is hard to perceive on what grounds the
parties should give their private conversations or correspondence with one another or their agent to establish their own
case, or show that they had not held themselves out to the

Dec. 1864.]

SHEETS V.

SELDEN'S LESSEE.

Syllabus.

public as partners of the deceased. Letjudgment of affirmance be entered in the case, and a statement of this decision
be certified to the Supreme Court of Nevada.*
AFFIRMANCE AND CERTIFICATE ACCORDINGLY.

SHEETS V. SELDEN'S LESSEE.
1. When a deed is executed on behalf of a State by a public officer duly
authorized, and this fact appears upon the face of the instrument, it is
the deed of the State, notwithstanding the officer may be described as
one of the parties, and may have affixed his individual name and seal.
In such case the State alone is bound by the deed, and can alone claim
its benefits.
Accordingly, where the legislature of Indiana passed two acts, one authorizing the Governor, and the other the Governor and Auditor of the
State to sell certain property of the State, and to execute a deed of the
same to the purchaser on behalf of and in the name of the State, and
such property being sold, the Governor and Auditor executed to the
purchaser a deed, naming themselves as parties of the first part, but referring therein to the acts of the legislature authorizing the sale, and
to a joint resolution approving the same, and declaring that, by virtue
of the power vested in them by the acts and joint resolution, they conveyed the property sold, "being all the right, title, interest, claim and
demand which the State held or possessed," such deed was sufficient to
pass the title of the State.
2. Land will often pass without any specific designation of it in the conveyance as land. Everything essential to the beneficial use and enjoyment of the property designated is, in the absence of language indicating a different intention on the part of the grantor, to be considered as
passing by the conveyance.
Accordingly, where the conveyance was of a division or branch of a canal,
"including its banks, margins, tow-yaths, side-cuts, feeders, basins, right
of way, dams, wator-ower, structures, and all the appurtenances thereunto belonging," certain adjoining parcels of land belonging to the
grantor which were necessary to the use of the canal and water-power,
and were used with it at the time, but which could not be included in
any of the terms above, in Italics, passed by the conveyance.
8. At the common law the grantee of a reversion could not enter or bring
ejectment for breach of the covenants of a lease; and the statute of 32
Henry VIII, giving the right of entry and of action to such grantee, is
confined to leases under seal.
- See Webster v. Reid, 11 Howard, 461.
VOL. ii.

12

