Dec. 1864.]

READ V. BOWMAN.
Statement of the case.

READ v. BOWMAN.
1. A declaration that a certain improvement, containing in reality one principal and three distinct minor improvements, was patented on a day
named, is supported by evidence that four patents-reissues-we-e subsequently granted on an original patent of the date named; such origin. aaving, in its specification, described all and no more than the improvements specified in the four reissues. The reissues relate back.
2. 'Where the purchaser of a claim for a patent agrees that, as soon as the
patent is issued, he will give his notes, payable at a future date, the fact
that no patent has issued until after the day when the last note, if given,
would have been payable, is no defence to aasumpsit for not having
given the notes; the patent having finally issued in form.

were inventors of four improvements
in reaping and mowing machines, the principal one being
what was called a "tubular fuger-bar;" and in 1856 were
in partnership, under the name of Lloyd, Whitaker & Co.,
with two persons named Lloyd &Bowman; these last-named
persons using the improvements with them, though not in
any way inventors. On 27th December, 1856, Read &Whitaker applied for a patent; their application giving authority.
to Mr. Hanna, of Washington, whom they appointed their
solicitor, "to alter or modify the drawings, specifications,
and claims thereunto attached, in such manner as circumstances might require, or to withdraw the application altogether should it be deemed advisable, and in that event to
receive and receipt for such sums of money as should be
returnable under the act of Congress in that case made and
provided." Pending this application, and before any letters
were granted, Read agreed to sell out his interest to Whitaker
for $4500; of which $1500 was to be paid, and was paid in
cash. The instrument of sale recited that, "Whereas Read
& Whitaker have invented an improvement, for which they
have applied for letters patent; and whereas, Whitaker has
agreed to purchase of Read his interest in and to said invention, in consequence of letters patent, granted or to be
granted; now, therefore, I, the said Read, in consideration,
&c., hereby assign, &c., to Whitaker, the full and exclusive
READ & W HrUAER

READ V. BOWMAN.

Esup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

right to said invention, as set forth and described in the spectflcations which 1, in company with Whitaker, have prepared, executed, and filed with the Commissioner of Patents at Washington, preparatory to obtaining letters patent therefor. To
have and to hold," &c. Then, in a separate paragraph, the
assignment proceeds, for the same consideration ($4500),
and the further considerationof one dollar, to assign to Whitaker
Read's right, title, and interest in and to three claims to
inventions made by Read & Whitaker, for which the specifications had not been fully made, describing them.
The specifications above referred to contained a description of all the improvements in the case, which were plainly
but parts of one invention.
Contemporaneously with this assignment, Whitaker, as
one party, and "Bowman & Lloyd" signing as another, executed an engagement to Read for $3000, the balance of the
consideration of the transfer from Whitaker to him. The
contract, in opening, recites, that Read had assigned to
t hitaker all his title in certain inventions and improvements
(both plural) made by Read & Whitaker, in improvement
of grain-reapers and grass-mowers, &c. (for full particulars
reference being made to said assignment), "for which the
said Whitaker has agreed to pay the said Read as follows:
$1500 on the 1st January, A. D. 1859, and $1500 on the 1st
January, A. D. 1860, with interest." And the contract then
thus concludes:
"Now, therefore, we, the said J. Eloyd, F. ff. Bowman, and J.
T. Whitaker, do hereby agree, for a valuable consideration to us
paid by the said Read (the receipt whereof we do hereby acknowledge), as soon as the patent for the improvement in the grainreaper and grass-mower aforesaid is obtained by the said Bead and
Whitaker, to execute unto the said Read our joint and several
notes for the said amounts, payable as aforesaid, with interest
as aforesaid."
The dates when tho notes were to come due must be
observed. After this tirni Read retired from business: the

Dec. 1864.-]

READ V.

BOWMAN.

Statement of the case.

three other persons continuing it, and using all four improvements.
The "specifications" referred to in Read's assignment, as
filed by him and Whitaker with the Commissioner of Patents,
presented in realityfour improvements. Mr. Hanna, their
solicitor, withdrew three of the claims; and on the 11th of
August, 1857, accepted a patent for one of them only, as
specified ii a specification amended by him; the patent
embi acing - 11 the improvements in its specification, but the
claim being resricted to the principal improvement, that of
the "tubular finger-bar." On the 12th of February, 1859,this date, too, must be noted,-" Bowman & Lloyd," who
now ceased to use any of the improvements, notified to
Read that, as more than a sufficient time had elapsed for
procuringthe patent for improvements, and as the same had
not been procured, they (Bowman &Lloyd) considered themselves discharged, and the contract void, so far as they were
concerned. About one year after this notice, that is to say,
on the 7th February, 1860, Read did obtain four patentsreissues upon the patent of August 11, 1857, which reissued
patents, it was admitted, did contain the said four improvements, being all the improvements in the matter.
Read accordingly brought assumpsit against Whitaker,
Bowman & Lloyd, for breach of contract in not executing
their two notes for $1500 each; the declaration alleging that,
subsequently to making the agreement, "to wit, on the 11th
day of August, 1857, the said improvement was duly patented;" nothing being said about any surrender or about the
reissues; and the one patent of August 11, 1857, being alone
offered in proof.
The question below was, .whether this declaration was
sustained by the evidence; and whether Lloyd & Bowman
were discharged. The court held the declaration sufficient
on the reissued patents being granted; that both Bowman &
Lloyd were bound, just as Read was; that Bowman & Lloyd
were chargeable with notice of Mr. Hanna's authority, and
were bound by such changes and modifications as he made.
Verdict was given for the amount of the notes with interest.
VOL. 11.

88

594

READ C. BOWMAN.

[Sup. Ot

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Judgment having gone accordingly, the defendants brought
the case here on error.
Goodwin, for the plaintiff in error: The contract about the
notes shows plainly that Whitaker was the principal debtor.
It is "the said Whlaker" who "has agreed to pay the said
Read." Lloyd & Bowman do not contract to pay at all.
Indeed there was no equity to raise an obligation for them
to pay. Read's assignment was to "Whitaker," and to
him alone. He alone got a permanent and beneficial interest. What Lloyd & Bowman do is this: they-after that
Whitaker has promised to pay-agree that they with him
will give their notes. Is it not plain that they did this as
his sureties? Where a contract is to pay the debt of another,
without any new consideration to the party so contracting,
the obligation is to be construed as one of suretyship,* and,
of course, to be construed strictly. The surety is bound in
the manner and under the circumstances pointed out in his
obligation. He may stand to its very terms, and if a variation is made without his assent, he is discharged.
This obligation of the sureties was not absolute, but was
contingent upon the condition precedent, that a patent for
the specified improvements should first issue. If no patent
ever issued, although Whitaker was still liable to Read for
the sum agreed, Bowman & Lloyd could not be called upon
for its payment.
Then the issue being a condition precedent, such condition must have been performed within a reasonable time;
prior, at least, to the time when the debt for which they
thus contingently bound themselves matured: obtaining a
patent subsequent to such time was not sufficient. But all
the obligation of Whitaker became due on or before the 1st
day of January, 1860; the reissued patents all bear date
subsequently. From the date of the contract, therefore, to
its maturity, the condition precedent to Bowman & Lloyd's
liability remained unperformed.
* Rees v. Barrington, 3 Leading Oases in Eotiity, by flare & Wallace,
Sd elit. 837.

Dec. 1864._]

READ V. BOWMAN.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Moreover, by the terms of the contract it was necessary
that a patent should issue for all the improvements specified.
In their mechanical nature, one may have been greater than
another. In their legal magnitude, all stand on one base.
The patent of 11th August, 1857, the only patent offered in
evidence, being for only one of the four, was not a performance of the condition.
Under the simple allegation of the issue of a patent on
that day, it was not competent to prove the surrender of
such patent, and the reissue of the four patents nearly three
years afterwards. This evidence being excluded, there was
nothing before the jury but the patent of August 11th, 1857,
and the verdict should have been for the defendants.
The true construction of the last clause of the contract is,
to regard it as containing solely the contract of Bowman &
Lloyd, in the same manner as if the earlier part had been
signed by Whitaker, with the clause omitted; and then the
clause indorsed upon the contract, or written beneath it,
and signed by Bowman & Lloyd only. Any other view
involves the absurdity of making Whitaker both absolutely
and contingently liable for the same debt by the same instrument. The contract of the respective parties, though
contained in the same writing, must in construction be so
severed as to be consistent with itself; and any other construction than that for which we contend, either changes the
absolute liability of Whitaker to pay, which is clearly fastened upon him by the previous part of the contract, into a
contingent liability dependent upon a condition to be performed, or enlarges the obligation of Bowman & Lloyd,
which is contained only in this final clause, from a conditional
into an absolute 'liability, a construction which would make
the instrument inconsistent and contradictory.
Bowman & Lloyd are not chargeable with notice of the
authority of Mr. Hanna. The contract refers to the specifications as containing the descriptionof the inventions for which
a patent was to be issued, and is only notice of what such
inventions were, and not of the power of attorney. Even if
notice of the appointment of Hanna as the attorney, and of

READ V. BOWMAN.

[Sup. Ut

Argument for the defendant in error.

his authority, can be implied from the contract, it would be
no evidence of the assent of Bowman & Lloyd to the exercise of such power to withdraw or lessen the patent. On the

contrary, the notice of such power would no more be evidence of such assent, than the knowledge of the like authority existing in the inventors themselves under the Patent
Law would imply such assent. The contract made with
Bowman & Lloyd by the patentees would, in fact, restrict
both the patentees themselves and their attorneys from the
subsequent exercise of such power of withdrawal or modification, so far as Bowman & Lloyd were concerned, without
the consent of Bowman & Lloyd, and would require the
patent to be obtained for all the specified improvements, as
set forth in the agreement, in order to hold Bowman & Lloyd
under that contract.
To construe the power given to Mr. Hanna by the patentees as binding upon Bowman & Lloyd, and implying their
assent to its exercise, would contradict the terms of the contract, for Bowman & Lloyd were not to be liable unless a
patent were first issued, but Mr. Hanna was authorized to
withdraw the entire claim and receive back the patent fee.
You cannot imply Bowman & Lloyd's assent to the withdrawal of any part of the claim any more than of the whole,
for all the evidence of such assent is what is furnished by
the writings themselves, and they give the same authority
to withdraw all as any part.
Mr. Boberts, contra: There is no evidence that Lloyd and
Bowman were sureties. Had the consideration moved
wholly to "Whitaker, it would not have proved that fact, for a
promise is not necessarily that of a surety because the consideration moves to another. But it is evident that Lloyd
and Bowman were interested in the purchase, for they received, had, and used the thing bought. The assignment
was made to Whitaker, probably, because he was a joint
inventor. Even if they were sureties, that makes no difference; for sureties are as much bound by the true intent of
instruments as principals.

READ v. BowmAzq.

Dec. 1864.]

Argument for the defendant in error.

Had not the pleader in drawing the nar. alleged the issue
of a patent, we should have insisted that there was no condition precedent to be performed by Read. The law is that
if a promise is made to pay a sum of money at a time fixed,
with a condition annexed which may never be performed,
the promise is not dependent but absolute. In Harlow v.
Boswell,* the promise was to pay in twelve months, or so
soon as the promisorshould sell to the amount of the note out of a
certain commodity. Treat, 0. J., said the note was payable
absolutely at a day certain. In Mc Carty v. Howellt the note
read, "Four months after date, or so soon as I collect a certain note against A. Davis, I promise to pay," &c. Breese, J..
after stating that the note was to be construed most strongly
against the promisor, and that it was payable absolutely,
put a quietus upon the defendant's argument by stating their
respective positions thus: "By our construction the note
would read, 'Four months after date I promise to pay,' &c.,
' but if A. D. pays his note before that time I will pay then."'
By the other construction it would read, "I will pay this
note at four months, but if A. D. does not pay his note to
me I will never pay it." The reductio ad absurdumwould be
no less apparent in the present than in that case, if the position indicated were assumed. Mr. Read had parted with
property valued at $3000 over what had been paid for it,
and with all control over it; the purchasers had it in their
power never to perform the condition, on the hypothesis
assumed, by delaying the obtaining of the patent until
after the time the notes were to be given, and thus to defeat a right of action and still keep the property. And
this is the true reason why such a promise is absolute. It
is because the promisor has it in his power to defeat the
condition. Who can say that the plaintiffs in error did
not, in this very case, delay the grant of the reissues, for
a month and seven days, upon the idea of saving to themselves $3000 ?
With regard to Mr. Hanna: By the agreement between
* 15 Illinois, 56.

24 Id. 841.

READ V.

Bo

VMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Read and Whitaker, it was understood between them that
the specifications might be altered, modified or changed by
this person. When, therefore, the letters patent were issued,
upon the specifications, whether as they originally stood, or
as modified, Whitaker was bound, by the letter and spirit
of the contract, to execute the notes. This determined the
obligation of Bowman & Lloyd. It must be considered
,hat the parties entered into this contract with all the rights
with which the patent law clothes inventors, one of which
is, that a defective specification can be amended. Hanna
modified the specifications, by striking out all but one claim.
The parties are presumed in law to have been informed by
iheir attorney that this had been or would be done; and
hence the distinction in the assignment, both in respect to
the one invention, as distinguished from the other three, and
in respect to the consideration of the assignment, by making
a class of one claim, and another distinct class of the other
three, so that, although the whole were assigned to Whitaker, they well understood, at that time, that the patent then
issued or to be issued, covered but the one claim. Read
undertook for nothing, except that the inventions were
patentable, to be shown by the issue of a patent. He had
parted with all his interest in the invention, and had no
-ightto interfere with 'Whitaker's proceedings in obtaining
the patent in any form he wished. If he had interfered to
prevent its issue upon the one claim, he would have thereby
furnished a perfect defence to this action.
The second patent legalized the rights of the patentee from
the date of the first patent. The reissue was still a patent
for the original invention, and if these effects can be given
to it, it was properly declared on as it was.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois. The principal
question in the case arises upon the exceptions of the detendauts to the instructions given by the court to the jury

Dec. 1864.]

I EAD

v.

BOWMAN.

Opinion of the court.

Other exceptions were taken by the defendants to the rulings
of the court, and to the refusal of the court to instruct the
jury as requested; but the whole substance of the controversy between the parties, and of the errors assigned in the
record, is involved in the exceptions to the instructions of
the court. Defendant in error and the first-named plaintiff
were inventors of a certain improvement in reaping and
mowing machines, and were joint-owners of the improvement. They applied to the Patent Office for letters patent,
and employed a patent solicitor, to prosecute their claim
before the commissioner. Application was filed on the
eighteenth day of May, 1857, and it is conceded that the
specifications accompanying the same contained a description of the entire improvement. Pending the application,
and before the letters patent were granted, Whitaker, the
principal defendant in the court below, agreed with his
associate inventor to purchase of him, for the sum of four
thousand five hundred dollars, all the. right, title, and interest which the latter had or might have in and to the invention, in consequence of the letters patent granted or to
be granted therefor; and in consideration of that sum the
plaintiff in the court below, who was the other inventor, assigned and set over to the party first named the full and exclusive right to all of the invention, as set forth and described
in the specifications; and the contract was that the assignee
should have and hold the invention to him and his assigns,
as fully as the same would have been enjoyed by the assignor if the assignment and sale had not been made. Introductory part of the instrument described the invention as
an improvement in reaping and mowing machines, for which
the inventors had applied for letters patent. Assignor also,
by the same instrument, "in consideration aforesaid, and
also of one dollar" to him paid, assigned and set over to the
same assignee, all right, title, and interest in and to three
certain claims to inventions, described as made by the same
inventors, and for which the specifications had not been fully
prepared. Suit was brought in this case, by the assignor in
that instrument, to recover the sum of three thousand dol-

READ

v). :BOWMAN.

[Sup. ct

Opinion of the court.

lars as the unpaid balance of the consideration for the title
and interest of the invention as conveyed.
Declaration was an assumpsit, and was founded upon a
contemporaneous written agreement, signed by the assignee
in that assignment, and the other two defendants. Agree.
ment declared on refers to the instrument of assignment,
describes the subject-matter assigned as improvements "to
grain-reapers and grass-mowers, belt-tightener," &c., specifies the entire consideration, states that the balance unpaid
is three thousand dollars, and that the same is to be paid
in two annual instalments, with interest at ten per cent. per
annum, and concludes with what is the material clause in
the controversy. Substance of the clause is that the defendants agreed to execute to the assignor of the invention their
joint and several notes "for said amounts, payable as aforesaid, with interest, as aforesaid," as soon as the patent for
the improvement in the grain-reaper and grass-mower aforesaid is obtained by the said inventors. Material allegations
of the declaration are, that the letters patent described in
the agreement were, on the eleventh day of August, 1857,
duly obtained, and that the defendants, after due notice
thereof, neglected and refused to give to the plaintiff their
joint and several notes as they had agreed to do. Plea was
non-assumpsit, and the verdict and judgment were for the
plaintiffi
I. Principal defence is that by the true construction of
the agreement, no right of action against the last two defendants was to accrue to the plaintiff, unless letters patent
for all the improvements specified in the assignmeat were
obtained within a reasonable time, and that inasmuch as the
patent of the eleventh of August, 1857, was for one only of
the four specified improvements, the plaintiff, as against
those defendants, is not entitled to recover. Reference must
be made to the circumstances under which the contract was
made, as affording the means of applying the language employed in the instrument to the subject-matter of the agree.
ment. Parties agreed that there were four improvements.
but they all related to grain-reapers and grass-mowers, as

Dec. 1864.]

READ V. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the court.

the machines are called in the written contract. Specifica.
tions of the patent of thae eleventh of August, 1857, embraced
all of the improvements described in the assignment, but the
claim of the patent limited the invention to the tubular
finger-bar, therein described, which is by far the most important feature of the entire improvement, and really constitutes the principal merit of the invention. Description
of the improvement in the assignment is that it is an improvement in reaping and mowing machines, and there can
be no doubt that it was regarded by the parties as constituting the principal matter of the assignment and transfer.
But the other improvements are embraced in the assignment,
and cannot be separated from the consideration specified in
the instrument. Two of the claims are described as the
subjects of one application, and the other, as an invention
for a belt "tightener," operated by a right and left hand
screw. They were four in all, and in point of fact were all
described in the original specification, and are the same as
those described in the reissued patents set forth in the record.
First one, as before stated, consists of an improvement in
the construction of the finger-bar in reaping and mowing
machines, substituting a rolled tubular finger-bar in the
place of the solid bar previously used.
Second one consists of an improvement in the arrangement and combination of the raker's seat with a supporting
wheel, and the frame and finger-bar of the machine.
Third one consists of an improvement in the mode of
mounting the driving wheel, and of driving the pulley thai,
communicates motion to the belt and reel pulley.
Fourth one consists of an improvement for tightening the
belt which draws the reel for the purpose of gathering the
grain into the sickle.
Obviously the improvements are but parts of the same
invention, and the evidence shows that the parties to the
assignment had invented them all before the date of that
instrument. Precise date of the invention does nof appear;
but it does appear that all of the parties to the written agree.

IREAD V.

BOWMAN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

ment were partners in 1856, and that the partnership used
the improvement in the manufacture, of machines. When
the plaintiff assigned his interest in the invention to the
first-named defendant he retired from the firm, and the
other partners continued the business, using all four of the
improvements. Express reference is made, both in the assignment and in the agreement, to the pendency of the
application for a patent, in respect to the principal improvement, and in the latter, both to the pending specifications
and to those which were "not fully made." Such reference
to the specifications and pending proceedings render it allowable to examine those documents in connection with the
assignment and agreement, as means of ascertaining the true
intent and meaning of the parties.
Pending application for the patent was dated the 27th day
of December, 1856, and was signed by both of the inventors.
Authority was therein conferred upon their solicitor to alter
or modify the drawings, specifications, and claims thereunto
attached, in such manner as circumstances might require, or
to withdraw the application altogether should it be deemed
advisable, and in that event to receive and receipt for such
sums of money as should be returnable under the act of
Congress in that case made and provided.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by both the inventors,
he amended the specifications and received the patent described. Effect of the assignment was not only to transfer
the whole title of the several improvements to the assignee,
but also to confer upon him the entire control of the pending
application for letters patent. He could cancel the authority
of the solicitor, or he could suffer it to remain without restriction or limitation. Plaintiff reserved no control in the
matter, and it does not appear that he ever attempted to
interfere in the premises. Purchase of the assignee was an
absolute one, and he was bound to pay the consideration at
all events. Plainly the other defendants were not parties
to the assignment, nor were they parties to the promise of
the assignee to pay the consideration, as therein specified and
repeated in the introductory part of the written agreement

Dec. 1864.]

READ V. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the court.

Their promise is contained in the last clause of the instrument, and it is conditional; but it is a mistake to suppose
that it is not a joint one with the assignee. Neither the assignee nor the other two defendants promised to give their
notes for the consideration, excepting on the happening of
the condition therein specified. Legal effect of the promise
by all three was, that they would give their joint and several
notes for the two unpaid instalments, "payable as aforesaid,
with interest aforesaid," as soon as the patent for the improvement in the grain-reaper and grass-mower aforesaid
was obtained by the inventor. Obligation to perform was
made dependent upon the future and undetermined action
of the patent officer. Applicants for patents may, by law
and the usages of the bureau, amend their specifications,
and do everything authorized to be done by the patent solicitor in this case. Assignee knew what authority he and
his associate inventor had conferred upon the solicitor, and
it must be understood that the other defendants also knew
what was the law upon the subject and the general usage of
the Patent Office. Instructions of the court, therefore, were
right, that when the letters patent were issued, the assignee
was bound, by the letter and spirit of his contract, to execute his notes. Defendants are right in supposing that a
surety may stand upon the very terms of his contract; that
he will be discharged if any alteration is made in his agreement, without his knowledge or consent, which prejudices
him, or which amounts to the substitution of a new agreement for the one he executed.*
But sureties are as much bound by the true intent and
meaning of their contracts which they voluntarily subscribe
as principals. They are bound in the manner, to the extent,
and under the circumstances as they existed when the contract was executed. -Roth v. Miller.t Strong doubts are entertained whether any one of the defendants can be regarded
* Bonar v. McDonald, 1 English Law and Equity, 8; McWilliams v.
Mason, 5 Duer, 276; Maher v. Hall, 5 Barnwall & Cresswell, 269; Boulez
v. Cox, 4 Beavan, 380; Islyn v. Hartell, 8 Taunton, 208.
t 15 Sergeant & Rawle. 100.

READ

v.

BOWMAN.

[Sul). Ot

Opinion of the court.

as a surety; but it is unnecessary to decide that question at
the present time. Terms of the contract, or that part of it
under consideration, were based on the undetermined action
of the Patent Office, and in consideration of that fact it must
be assumed that the parties not only knew that the specifications might be amended or withdrawn, but that they contracted in view of the probability that such changes might
be made.*
Patentees, also, are clothed with the power, whenever the
patent granted shall be inoperative or invalid by reason of
a defective or insufficient description or specification, if the
error arose from inadvertency, accident, or mistake, to surrender the same; and thereupon the Commissioner of Patents, upon the payment of the duty, is authorized to cause
a new patent to issue. Reissue must be for the same invention, and in judgment of law it is only a continuation of the
original patent; and, consequently, the rights of the patentee,
except as to prior infringements, are to be ascertained by the
law under which the original application was made.t
Original patent in this case was surrendered, and on the
7th of February, 1860, four distinct reissues were granted.
Prior patent, as already explained, embraced all those improvements in its specifications, but the claim was restricted
to the principal improvement. Object of the surrender was
to correct that part of the specification known as the claim.,
and it is admitted by the defendants that the reissues cover
all the improvements specified in the assignment, and no
more than what was embraced in the original specifications.
Under the circumstances, we are of the opinion that the instruction of the court that the declaration is sufficient was
correct. Considering the state of the record, we have not
thought it necessary to reproduce the instructions of the
court, but have preferred to state our views of the law applicable to the case, and only wish to add that the instruc* Barclay v. Lucas, 1 Term, 291, n.; Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheaton, 708;
1 Stat. at Large, 122.
t Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Peters, 315; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Peters, 244; Stan.
.ey"v. Whipple, 2 McLean 35.

Dec. 1864.]

IIOGAIN V. PAGE.
Statement of the case.

tions of the court were in all substantial respects correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, is
AFIRmED WITH COSTS.

HOGA3N V. PAGE.
1. A patent certificate, or patent issued, or confirmation made to an original
grantee or his IIeal representatives," embraces representatives of such
grantee by contract, as well as by operation of law; leaving the question open -in a court of justice as to the party to whom the certificate,
patent, or confirmation should enure.
2. The fact that A., many years ago, did present to a board of commissioners
appointed by law to pass upon imperfect titles to land, a "claim" to
certain land, describing it as "formerly" of B., an admitted owner;
the fact that the board entered on its minutes that A., "assignee" of B.,
presented a claim, and that the board granted the land to "the r-epresentatives" of B.; and the fact that A., with his family, was in possession
of the land many years ago, and cultivating it, are facts which tend to
prove an assignment; and as such, in an ejeetment where the fact of
an assignment is in issue, should be submitted as evidence to the jury.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
After the cession, in 1808, by France, of Louisiana, to the
United States, Congress passed an act* establishing a board
of commissioners at St. Louis, for the purpose of settling
imperfect French and Spanish claims. The act provided
that any person who had, for ten consecutive years prior to
the 20th December, 1803, been in possession of a tract of
land not owned by any other person, &c., "should be confirmed in their titles."
In 1808, one Louis Lamonde presented a claim for a tract
of one by forty arpens, "formerly the property of Auguste
Oond6." The minutes of the board, of November 13th,
1811, disclosed the following proceedings:
"Louis Lamonde, assignee of Auguste Cond6, claiming one by,
forty acres, situate in the Big Prairie district of St. Louis, pro.
* Act of 3d March, 1807, 2 Stat. at Large, 440.

