BROOKS V. MARTIN.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

section can be applied to sales of real estate made by assignees under orders of district courts having general jurisdiction of proceedings in bankruptcy. But it is not necessary now to pass upon this point. The limitation certainly
could not affect any suit, the cause of which accrued from
an adverse possession taken after the bankruptcy, until the
expiration of two years from the taking of such possession;
and there is nothing in the record which shows when the
adverse possession relied on by the defendant in error commenced, and therefore nothing which warrants the application of the limitation to tLe petition for the order of sale.
We think the court below erred in instructing the jury
that the defendant in error, upon the case made, was entitled
to their verdict. Its judgment must therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to issue a
NEw VENIRE.

BROOKS V.

MARTIN.

1. After a partnership contract confessedly against public policy has been
carried out, and money contributed by one of the partners has passed
into other forms,-the results of the contemplated operation completed,a partner, in whose hands the profits are, cannot refuse to account for
and divide them on the ground of the illegal character of the original
contract.
2. Where one partner, who is in sound health, is made sole agent of the
partnership by another, who is not, and who relies on him wholly for
true accounts, and the party thus made agent manages the business at
a distance from the other, communicating to him no information, the
relation of partners, whatever it may be in general, becomes fiduciary,
and the law governing such relations applies.
MARTIN filed a bill in equity in the Federal Court of Wisconsin to set aside a contract of sale which he had made to
Brooks of his interest in a partnership venture, and for an
account and division of the profits; the ground of the prayer
being his own alleged embarrassed condition at the time of
the sale; his ignorance of the partnership business; fraud
on the part of the defendant, Brooks; concealment by

Brooks of what he knew; misrepresentation in what tie

Dec. 1863.]

BRooics v.

MARTIN.

Statement of the case.

professed to tell; and want of consideration proportioned to
the real value of the interest which the complainant had in
the concern. The answer admitted the purchase by Brooks,
but denied the fraud. The court gave the relief prayed;
and from its decree herein an appeal, the present suit, came
here.
The case, as ptoved by the evidence, and as shown and
assumed by this court after a very careful examination of an
immense mass of testimony,-twelve hundred pages closely
printed,-set forth in part in the opinion, but, as involving
very voluminously controverted issues of fact, not necessary, nor indeed possible, to be presented here,* was in substance this.
On the l1th February, 1847, the United States, being then
at war with Mexico, Congress passed a law by which warrants were directed to be issued to soldiers for a certain
quantity of land each; but in order to protect the soldier
entitled to the warrant against the rapacity of land brokers
and others who would profit of his improvidence, the statute
provided, by a ninth section, that any sale or contract going
to affect the title or claim to any such bounty made priorto
the issue of such warrant, should be "null and void to all
intents andpurposes whatsoever."t Just after the passage of
this statute, that is to say, in June, 1847, the complainant,
Martin (who was a banker in New Orleans), Brooks, the defendant, and a certain Field, entered into a partnership at
N.ew Orleans; the ostensible object of the firm being "the
purchase and sale of bounty land warrants that may have
been or may be issued under the law of Congress," &c. The
purchases and sales were to be conducted by Brooks and
Field, and the money was to be furnished by Martin. Brooks
was the brother-in-lawof Martin, and had been a clerk in his banking-house. Field was a stranger. It was, therefore, agreed
that Brooks should, in the actual management of affairs, re* The printed record made a book of 1201 pages of long rrimer, solid; a
volume, of itself, larger than any volume of reports of this court ever published.
- 9 Stat. at Large, 125.

13ROOKS V. MARTIN.

[8,111. CL

Statement of the case.

present Martin, and have full and exclusive control of the
business; an agreement, of course, by which he obtained a
preponderating influence in the management of the partnership over Field. The bill, indeed, alleged that Brooks had
a power of attorney frbm Martin, authorizing him, on all
occasions, to represent him in the partnership business. This
fact was denied in the answer; but the answer admitted that
Brooks was authorized by Martin to control the business.
Martin advanced, in cash, over $57,000; and large purchases
having been made of soldiers' claims, the parties closed their
operations in New Orleans, where little was done after a few
months in the way of purchasing warrants. Brooks then
came to Washington to attend to the issue of warrants.
Field, with two brothers of his, went to Wisconsin to locate
the warrants and sell the lands. Martin still remained in
New Orleans, carrying on his business of banker. From
the time that Brooks and Field left New Orleans, the management of the entire business fell, apparently, under the direction oJ
Brooks. None of it was conducted in New- Orleans, nor,
except five or six, which Brooks bought at the suggestion of
Martin, were any further warrants bought there. The accounts were kept in Wisconsin, two thousand miles from
where Martin was, and who had no opportunity of hearing
anything about the partnership except as it was communicated to him by Brooks or Field, or one of the brothers
Field, who were employed as clerks or agents in the business. No reports of the business were made to Martin; and,
as the testimony showed, Brooks and Field managed it
entirely without consulting him, irrespectively of his interest. The firm was known indifferently as Brooks &
Field, and as Brooks, Field &. Co.
In the winter of 1847-8, Martin failed in business, and
his health, including specially, it seemed, his nervous condition, became considerably prostrated. During the winter
just named, and when much embarrassed and absorbed
about his business, he applied for information to Brooks,
who was then in New Orleans, and who gave him a very
discouraging account of e.y: : ; one, the court as-

Dec. 186".]

BRooKs v. MARTIN.
Statement of the case.

sumed, which might naturally make Martin " glad to escape
with a few thousand dollars which it owed him as a creditor;" an account which the court considered that it was
impossible to regard as true.
In June, 1848, Martin, at the invitaton of Brooks, went
to Pittsburg, in Pennsylvania, to meet Brooks, who then and
there, on the 28th June, 1848, bought out his interest in the
partnership. Martin, at this time, had necer been in the West,
and, in fact, knew little or nothing as to the particularsof what had
been done there. There was no evidence, indeed, except the
answer of the defendant, which was discredited by facts, that
Martin ever had a remote conception of the condition of the
business. On the contrary, there were letters in the record
begging for statements on that subject.
On the other hand, when Brooks and Martin met in Pittsburg, Brooks had just come from Wisconbin, where he saw
Field and his brothers, and where he had the partnership
books for examination, and spent several days in examining
them. That he knew the real condition of the concern, and
was fully and minutely informed as to every item of its business, was considered by the court as "beyond dispute."
It appeared, in addition, by letters from Brooks to one
George Field, a brother of Field, the partner, written before
the sale was made, that Martin had directed that all remittances should be made to him at Washington; showing by
allusions in them to a remittance which George Field had
proposed to make to Martin, and to certain friends and correspondents of his named Lake & Co., in New York, that
Brooks specifically, and apparently with an interested motive, desired that no remittance should thus be made. In
one letter, written June 20th, 1848, that is to say, eight days
before the sale, and after he had invited and was expecting
Martin to meet him at Pittsburg in contemplation of the purchase which he there made, Brooks says:
"I can hardly express to you how much I feel obliged to you
for the soundness of the judgment that dictated to you to remit
directly to me, rather than to New York or any other place,
without my direction. I had been rendered somewhat una-

BROOKS V.

MARTIN.

[Sup. C,-

Statement of the case.

miable the (lay before by a letter from George Field, in which
he suggested the propriety of remitting directly to New York.
I feared he had so directed you. It would have greatly embarrassed my operation. I want all advice, as well as all remittances,
to pass through myself. If Mr. Lake OR ANY ONE ELSE ask information in relation to our matters, refer him to me, advising
me of the circumstance."
The partnership at this date,-as the court, after a computation

made by it on an analysis of the evidence, showed and assumed,presented clear cash profits,
It had, also, as the court showed, and assumed it to be proved,
45,000 acres of land, which, estimated at Government rates,a low rate of estimate in view of the fact that they had been
carefully selected by Field and his two brothers, one of whom
had been sent to examine the land personally before the warrants were located, and who was early in the field and made

judicious selections,-gave about
Or a total profit of ..

$15,000

57,000

$72,000

of which Martin'sshare, for the partnership, by its terms, was
not an equal one, came to $30,000.
The consideration of Brooks's purchase was an agreement
by him to pay all debts of the partnership, about $45,000,
and a payment, as he alleged, of $3000 to Martin, though,
as Martin asserted, a payment of about one-half a balance
due him on another account; which balance, it was evident,
that Brooks was bound for. Brooks gave no security for his
performance of his agreement to pay these debts.
At the time when this bill was filed, to wit, on the 3d of
August, 1857, which was apparently so soon as Martin had
examined into the facts of the case, all the claims purchased
by the firm had been turned into land warrants, and the warrants
had been sold or located. Where the purchase had been made prior
to the date of the warrantgranted, assigionents were subsequently
made by the soldier. A portion of the lands thus located had been
sold, partfor cash, partly on mortgage, and the assets of the partnership consisted now almost wholly of cash securities or of land.
Besides a full denial of the offensive allegations, as made
by the bill, the defendant set up as follows:

Dec. 1863.]

BRooiK

v. MARIn.

Argument for Brooks.

That notwithstanding the statement in the articles of part.
nership that the business of the firm related to the purchase
and sale of bounty land warrants and scrip, such was not the
true purpose of its formation, nor the business which it really
transacted; but that the partners intended, and really did
engage in buying up the claims of the soldiers, who were
then returning from Mexico by way of New Orleans, for
bounty land or scrip, long before any scrip or land warrants
were issued by the Government [a fact of which there appeared, indeed, by the evidence, to be no great doubt]; that
this was an illegal traffic, forbidden by the act of Congress
of February, 1847, above referred to, and against public
policy; that, accordingly, the plaintiff could have no relief
in a court of equity against his copartner, even if it were
made to appear that the latter realized a large sum out of
the venture, and defrauded the former of his share of the
amount so realized.
2. That no such fiduciary relation existed between the
parties, from the mere fact of partnership, or from anything
shown in the case, as entitled the complainant to relief.
Mr. lowe for the apellant, -Brooks.
1. It is quite apparent what was the true purpose of this
partnership. However that purpose was veiled,-and the
veil was but a transparent one,-the enterprise was set on
foot to do exactly that thing which the sixth section of the
act of Congress declared no one should do; to do that which
the act makes "null and void to all intents whatsoever." That
the traffic was actually one in claims is, in effect, confessed.
The evidence on that point is conclusive. The suit, then, is
brought in violation of a maxim of the very horn-books,
Ex turpi causd non oritur actio. In Russell v. Wheeler,* the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts say: " N o principle of law
is better settled, than that no action will lie upon a contract
made in violation of a statute, or of a principle of the common law." In Shiffner v. Gordon,t Lord Ellenborough laid
17 Massachusetts. 281.

t 12 East, 304.

lBRooxs v.

MARTIN.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument for Brooks.

it down as a settled rule, "that when a contract which is
illegal remains to be executed, the court will not assist either
party in an action to recover for the non-execution of it."
In the iNew York case of .Beldin v. Pitin,* Thompson, J.,
says: "It is a first principle, and not to be touched, that a
contract, in order to be binding, must be lawful." Other
cases, English and American, show how deep and firm are
the foundations of the rule, and how far the rule itself will
reach and ramify.t
2. Partners, in a case like this, do not stand to each other
in the relations of trustee and cestui que trust. All the partners were business men. Martin's business was that of a
banker, a pursuit requiring great business intelligence and
sharpness. Partners do not rely on each other as the ward
relies (inits guardian, or as the cestui que trust of any kind
on her trustee. On the contrary, they consult as equals in
capacity, caution, and ability, to take care, each, of himself;
and guard themselves as often, one against the other, as all
do, against third parties.1
3. As respects facts, it is vain to say that Martin's mind
was enfeebled, though his body may have been. This, indeed, is not pretended. Ie was competent, perfectly competent, to attend to business. The consideration was as
much as the case called for. The concern was yet on the
tide of experiment; a tide which was as likely to ebb as to
flow, and which, in its ebb, might leave the shore strewed
with wreck. Uncertainty and risk,-risks, civil and, perhaps, criminal,-belonged, as yet, to the whole enterprise.
Without any doubt at'all, the sales of their warrants by the
soldiers, before the issue of them, were void to "all intents."
Being void to "all intents," the soldiers could come forward
at any time, and successfully claim the land as their own.
Here is a fact to be kept constantly in view. What profits
* 2 Caines, 149.

t

Springfield Bank v. Merrick, 14 Massachusetts, 822; Russell v. DeGrand,
t5 Id. 39; Wheeler v. Russell, 17 Id. 281 ; Simpson v. Bloss, 7 Taunton,
246; Aubert v. Maze, 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 371.
I See Wheeler v. Sage, 1 Wallace, 518.

Dee. 1863.]

BRooKs V.

MARTIN.

Argument for Martin.

the concern would ultimately give was a matter which, like
the "means" of Signor Antonio in the Merchant of Venice,
was still "in supposition." It was a worse case still; for
the outlays were both certain and large; and what penalties
might attend the violation of the statute, as we have said,
remained to be seen.
Hr. Carpenter, contra.
1. We do not admit that the parties meant to violate the
act of Congress. The act, moreover, did not declare it criminal to buy bounty rights. This case is analogous to cases
arising under the Statute of Frauds, which declares contracts of certain kinds void, unless in writing. The contract,
though voidable, has never been regarded as criminal.
But quite independently of this, the bill relates to transactions wholly subsequent to and independent of the purchase
of the bounty rights. The case falls within the English precedent of Tenant v. .liott.* In that case, the defendant, a
broker, effected an insurance for the plaintiff, which was
illegal, being in violation of the navigation laws; but on a
loss happening, the underwriters paid the money to the
broker, who refused to pay it over to the insured, setting
up the illegality upon which an action for money had and
received was brought. The plaintiff recovered, on the
ground that the implied promise of the defendant, arising
out -ofthe receipt of the money for the plaintiff, was a new
contract, tiot affected by the illegality of the original transaction. The same principle was applied and enforced in
Farmer v. Busselt and in Thomson v. Thomson,J by Sir
William Grant, as great a judge as ever sat in Chancery.
2. The general position taken on the other side, as to the
relations of partners to each other, may be true in some
cases. It is not true in all, nor true here. Brooks was not
the partner, but the agent of Martin. He was his brotherin-law, and had been his clerk. He had a special know* 1 Bosanquet & Puller, 8.

t Id. 296.

7 Vesey, 473; and see, also, Sharp v. Taylor, 2 Phillips's Ch. 801.

BRooKs v. MARTIN.

[blip. Cl.

Opinion of the court.

ledge of the condition of the business, which Martin had
not. It matters not that the parties did not stand in the
technical relation of trustee and cestui que trust. That is not
essential in any case. The principle is a general one, and
it applies to "all cases where confidence is reposed, to
agents, attorneys, solicitors, guardians," &c.* In all such
cases, "the transaction is scanned with the most searching
and questioning suspicion." The party must show that "he
took no advantage whatever of his situation; that he gave to
his cestui que trust all the information which he possessed or
could obtain upon the subject; that he advised him as he would
have done in relation to a third party offering to become a
purchaser, and that the price was fair and adequate." And
,he onus is on the party purchasing.t
3. How can these principles be applied, and the purchase
stand? Martin relied wholly on Brooks, who systematically
prevented his getting information. The letter of Brooks,
June 20, 1848, to George Field, proves this fact, and proves,
also, a fraudulent design. The purpose of this letter cannot
be concealed. Neither was there any consideration. Brooks,
indeed, agreed to pay the partnership debts; but, in the first
place, the debts were far more than provided for by the vast
profits; and, second, Brooks gave no security to pay them or
save Martin harmless, if they had not been. As a partner,
he was bound to pay them at any rate. So he gave nothing.
Neither did Martin get anything, for he was bankrupt already; and the agreement to discharge the debts was of no
value. Even if it had been, the consideration was wholly
inadequate in view of the large profits made.
Mr. Justice MILLER, stating the facts of the case, as he
proceeded, and showing that its different parts were proved
by the testimony, delivered the opinion of the court to the
following effect:
We think that, in point of fact, the allegation of the an* 1 Leading Cases in Equity, by Hare & Wallace, note to Fox v. Alack.
:eath. 72.
+ Id.

Dec. 1863.-l

BRooKs V.

MARTIN.

Opinion of the court.

swer,--that the traffic in which this firm engaged was the
buying up of soldiers' claims, before any scrip or land warrants were issued, and not the purchase and sale of bounty
land warrants and scrip,-is true. We have as little doubt
that the traffic was illegal. Undoubtedly, the mair object
of the ninth section of the act of February 11, 1847, was to
protect the soldier against improvident contracts of the precise character of those developed in this record. It was a
wise and humane policy, and no court could hesitate to
enforce it, in a case which called for its application. If a
soldier, who had thus sold his claim to Brooks, Field & Co.,
had refused to perform his contract, or to do any act which
was necessary to give them the full benefit of their purchase,
no court would have compelled him to do it, or given them
any relief against him. And if they had, by any such
means, got possession of the land warrant or scrip of a soldier, no court would have refused, in a proper suit, to compel
them to deliver up such land warrant or scrip to the soldier.
Or if Brooks, after the signing of these articles of partnership,
had said 'to Martin, "T refuse to proceed with this partnership, because the purpose of it is illegal," Martin would have
been entirely without remedy. If, on the other hand, he had
said to Martin, "I have bought one hundred soldiers' claims.
for which I have agreed to pay a certain sum, which I require
you to advance according to your agreement," Martin might
have refused to comply with such a demand, and no court
would have given either of his partners any remedy for such
a refusal. To this extent go the cases of 1ussell v. Wheeler,*
Sheffner v. Gordon,tBelding v. Ptkin,T and the others cited by
counsel for appellant, and no further.
All the cases here supposed, however, differ materially
from the one now before us. When the bill in the present
case was filed, all the claims of soldiers thus illegally purchased by the partnership, with money advanced by complainant, had been converted into land warrants,, and all the
warrants had been sold or located. The original defect in
*17

31~assacharetts, 281.

t" 12 East, 804.

1 2 Caines, 149

80

BRioos v.

MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the purchase had, in many cases, been cured by the assignment of the warrant by the soldier after its issue. A large
proportion of the lands so located had also been sold, and
the money paid for some of it, and notes and mortgages
given for the remainder. There were then in the hands of
defendant, lands, money, notes, and mortgages, the results
of the partnership business, the original capital for which
plaintiff had advanced. It is to have an account of these
funds, and a division qf these proceeds, that this bill is filed.
Does it lie in the mouth of the partner who has, by fraudulent means, obtained possession and control of all these
funds, to refuse to do equity to his other partners, because
of the wrong originally done or intended to the soldier? It
is difficult to perceive how the statute, enacted for the benefit
of the soldier, is to be rendered any more effective by leaving
all this in the hands of Brooks, instead of requiring him to
execute justice as between himself and his partner; or what
rule of public morals will be weakened by compelling him
to do so? The title to the lands is not rendered void by the
statute. It interposes no obstacle to the collection of the
notes and mortgages. The transactions which were illegal
have become accomplished facts, and cannot be affected by
any action of the court in this case.
In Sharp v. Taylor,* a case in the English Chancery, the
plaintiff and defendant were partners in a vessel, which,
being American built, could not be registered in Great
Britain, according to the navigation laws of that kingdom.
iNor could the owners, who were British subjects, residing
in England, have her registered in the United States. They
undertook to violate the laws of both countries by having
her falsely registered in Charleston, South Carolina, as
owned by a citizen and resident of that place. In this condition, she made several trips, which were profitable; and
the defendant, colluding with Robertson, the American
agent in whose name the vessel had been registered, refused
to account with plaintiff for his share of the profits, or to
* 2 Phillips's Ch. 801.

Dec. 1863.]

BRooKs v.

MARIN.

Opinion of the court.

acknowledge his interest in the ship. When plaintiff brought
his
suit inof Chancery in England, the defendant set up the
illegality
the traffic, and the violation of the navigation
laws of both governments, as precluding the court from
granting any relief, on the same principle that is contended
for by the defendant in the present case. It will be at once
perceived that the principle is the same in both cases, and
that the analogy in the facts is so close that any rule on the
subject which should govern the one ought also to control
the other. The case was decided by,Lord Chancellor Cot,
enham and from his opinion wo make the following extracts: "The answer to the objection appears to me to be
this,-that the plaintiff does not ask to enforce any agreement adverse to the provisions of the act of Parliament.
He is not seeking compensation aid payment for an illegal
voyage. That matter was disposed of when Taylor" (the
defendant) "received the money; and plaintiff is now only
seeking payment for his share of the realized profits .....
As between these two, can this supposed evasion of the law
be 'set up as a defence by one against the otherwise clear
title of the other? Can one of two partners possess himself
of the property of the firm, 'and be permitted to retain it, if
he can show that, in realizing it, some provision or some act
of Parliament has been violated or neglected ? .... .The

answer to this, as to the former case, will be, that the transaction alleged to be ilegal is completed and closed, and will
not be in any manner affected by what the court is asked to
do between the parties .....
.The difference between enforcing illegal contracts, and asserting title to money which
has arisen from them, is distinctly taken in Tenant v. -Elliot,*
and Farmerv. .Russellt and recognized and approved by Sir
William Grant, in Thomson v. Thomson."t
These cases are all reviewed in the opinion of this court
in the case of AcBlair v. Gibbes,ยง and the language here
quoted from the principal case is there referred to with approbation. We are quite satisfied that the doctrine thus
1 Bosanquet & Puller, 3.
7 Vesey, 473
VOL. 11.

t Id. 29.'
17 Howard, 232.
6

BROOKS V.

MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

announced is sound, and that it is directly applicable to the
case before us.
The plaintiff alleges in his bill, that on the 28th day of
June, 1848, he sold his interest in the partnership business
to the defendant Brooks; that iii making the sale he was
overreached by the fraud of Brooks, who, by concealment
of what he knew, and false representations in what he professed to tell, took advantage of the embarrassed financial
condition of plaintiff, and his ignorance of the partnership
business, and procured from him the sale for a consideration
totally disproportioned to the real value of his interest in the
concern. The defendant admits the purchase of plaintiff's
interest, but denies the fraud, and insists that the transaction was in all respects -fair and honest. The issue thus
generally stated here, is the one mainly contested in the
case; and so contested that a record of a thousand printed
pages is mostly filled with testimony on this subject.
If the parties are to be regarded in this transaction as
holding towards each other no different relations from those
which ordinarily attend buyer and seller; and as, therefore,
under no special obligation to deal conscientiously with each
other, we are satisfied that no such fraud is proven as would
justify a court -in setting aside an executed contract. But
there are relations of trust and confidence which one man
may occupy towards another, either personally, or in regard
to the particular property which is the subject of the contract, which impose upon him a special and peculiar obligation to deal with the other person towards whom he stands
so related, with a candor, a fairness, and a refusal to avail
himself of any advantage of superior information, or other
favorable circumstance, not required by courts of justice in
the usual business transactions of life. It is contended that
the relation of Brooks towards Martin was of this character;
and before we can dispose of the question of fraud, it is necessary to determine whether the claim thus set up is well
founded; and if it is, what are the princip'es upon which
courts of equity determine the validity of contracts between
parties so situate-1. It is argued that the partnership exisf

Dee. 1863.]

BROOKS V.

AiRTiN.

Opinion of the court.

ing between the parties constitutes of itself a relation which
calls for the application of the principles which we have
alluded to; and Judge Story, in recapitulating the confidential relations to which they are appropriate,* mentions
partner and partner as one of them. It is not necessary to
decide here whether, in all cases, a sale by one partner to
another of his interest in the partnership concern, will be
scrutinized with the same closeness which is applied to fiduciary relations generally; fbr there are special circumstances
in this case which bring it clearly within the rules applicable
to that class of cases.
1. The defendant was not only the partner of plaintiff, but
he was his special agent in the management of the business.
The bill alleges that he had a power of attorney from plaintiff, authorizing him to represent, on all occasions, the interest of plaintiff in the conduct of the affairs of the firm; and
although this is denied in the answer, and is not proven, the
answer does state that at the time the partnership was formed,
it was distinctly agreed between plaintiff and defendant that
the latter was to have the full and exclusive control of the
business, and should so far represent the plaintiff as to give
defendant a preponderating influence in the management
of the partnership over Mr. Field, the third partner. The
record leaves no doubt that he acted throughout in accordance with this agreement.
2. It is abundantly established by the testimony that,
within some two or three months after the partnership was
formed, the parties closed their operations in New Orleans,
after having invested over $50,000, advanced by Martin, in
the purchase of soldiers' claims; and that thenceforth very
little was done in the way of purchasing claims or warrants.
That Brooks then came to Washington to procure the warrants to be issued, and Field went to Wisconsin to seek a
market for their sale. From that time forward, Brooks and
Field had the entire management of the business, mainly
under the direction of Brooks; and none of it was conducted
* Equity Jurisprudence,

828.

BRaOOKS 0. MAR1N.

[sup. (A

Opinion of the court.

in New Orleans save the purchase of five or six warrants
made by Brooks on Martin's suggestion, nor were any reports made of the business to Martin.
Brooks and Field thus managed the entire concern, at a
distance of near two thousand miles from Martin, and, as we
think the testimony shows, without consulting him in any
way, and with very little regard for his large interest in the
business.
Under these circumstances, Brooks must be held to have
been not only the partner, but the special agent of Martin;
and the purchase made by him of Martin's interest must be
tested by the rules which govern such transactions as between principal and agent.
What are these rules? "On the whole, the doctrine may
be generally stated, that wherever confidence is reposed, and
one party has it in his power, in a secret manner, for his
own advantage, to sacrifice those interests which he is bound
to protect, he will not be permitted to hold any such advantage."* Or, to speak more specifically, "if a partner who
exclusively superintends the business and accounts of the
concern, by concealment of the true state of the accounts
and business, purchase the share of the other partner for an
inadequate price, by means of such concealment, the purchase will be held void."t
Speaking of a purchase by a trustee from his cestui que
trust, Lord Chancellor Eldon says, in the case of Coles v.
Trecothiek,t that though permitted, it is a transaction of
great delicacy, and which the court will watch with the
utmost diligence; so much, that it is very hazardous for a
trustee to engage in such a transaction. "A trustee may
buy from the cestui que trust, provided there is a distinct and
clear contract, ascertained to be such after a jealous and.
scrupulous examination of all the circumstances; provided
the cestui que trust intended the trustee should buy; and
there is no fraud, no concealment, no advantage taken by
the trustee of information acquired by him in the character
*

Story'i R quity, &823.

Id.

220.

1 9 Vcsey, 234.

Dec. 1863.]

BROOKS V. MARTIN.
Opinion of the court.

of trustee. I admit," he says, "it is a difficult case to make
out, wherever it is contended that the exception prevails."
This has long been regarded as a leading case, and the above
remarks have been often cited by other courts with approbation. We think them fully applicable to a purchase, by
an agent from his principal, of the property committed to
his agency.*
We lay down, then, as applicable to the case before us,
and to all others of like character, that in order to sustain
such a sale, it must be made to appear, first, that the price
paid approximates reasonably near to a fair and adequate
consideration for the thing purchased; and, second, that all
the information in possession of the purchaser, which was
necessary to enable the seller to form a sound judgment of
the value of what he sold, should have been communicated
by the former to the latter.
In regard to the adequacy of the price, it is obvious that
Brooks did not pay to Martin anything which he was not
bound to pay before the sale was made, or assume any obligation under which he did not already rest; nor did Martin
receive anything which Brooks did not then owe him, or his
promise to do anything for which Brooks was not previously
bound. The only matter in which their relations were
changed was, that Martin sold to Brooks his share of the
profits of the business, and Brooks assumed to bear all
Martin's share of the losses.
So the condition of the partnership business, at this time,
shows a balante of $15,000t of profits, all of which was cash,
or funds equal to cash. It further appears, that ,there were
on hand and unsold over 45,000 acres of land, which, at the
Govprnment rate of $1.25 an acre, gives an aggregate value
of $57,000. Add this to the $15,000 above mentioned, and
we have $72,000 as the probable profits of the partnership
venture, at the time of this sale.
* See, also, Mlichoud v. Girod, 4 Howard, 503; Bailey v. Teakle, 2 Bocken.
borough, 51-54; Hunter v. Atkyns, 3 Mlylne & Keene, 113; Maddeford v
Austwick, 1 Simons, 89.
t The court here made a computation giving this result.

BRooKs V.

MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is said that the danger that soldiers would seek to reclaim the warrants, or the lands on which they had been
located, under the provisions of the act of 1847; already
mentioned, must have detracted largely from the amount
which any prudent man would have given for Martin's interest in the concern. This danger was, however, a very
remote and improbable one, and must have so appeared,
when we consider that these claims have been bought from
young men scattered over the different States of the Union,
with no means of ascertaining where the warrants were
located, or in whom the title was vested; and that the
amount, in each case separately, was not worth the trouble
and expense of the search and subsequent litigation. But
while these considerations might have some weight, if the
question of adequate price were otherwise in doubt, they
can go but a little way to establish that point, in the circumstances of the present case.
Martin's share of the profits were $30,000, for which
Brooks gave him substantially nothing.
Was Martin placed by Brooks in possession of all the information known to himself, and which was necessary to
enable Martin to form a sound judgment of the value of
what he was selling?
[His honor here examined the evidence on this question
of fact,-some of it of an inferential kind,-minutely, and
went on thus]:
But we are not left alone to this negative and inferential
testimony on the subject. We have letters from Brooks to
the Fields, written before the sale was made, in which he
urges that all remittances shall be made to him at Washington, showing from the allusions in them to a proposed remittance to Martin, and to Lake & Co., who were Martin's
correspondents in New York, that his intention was that no
remittance should be made to Martin. When we consider
that the letter of June 20th was written at a moment when
he was expecting in a few days an interview with Martin,
which he had himself suggested, and that he was no doubt
theu contemplating the very purchase which he made at the

Dec. 1864.]

BADGER

o.

BADGER.

Statement of the case.

interview, and that he knew that Lake was the othe'r partner
in the firm of Martin & Co., we look upon it as remarkable;
pointing clearly to one conclusion, namely, a determination
to keep from Martin all the funds of the concern, and all
information of its condition, in order that he might perform
the operation of buying Martin's interest at a sacrifice.
We are of opinion, from a careful examination of the testimony, that Brooks occupied towards Martin a relation of
confidence and trust, being his partner, his agent, and his
brother-in-law, and having also entire control of the partnership business; that he took advantage of this position to
conceal from Martin the prosperous condition of the concern, and purchased from him his interest, for a price totally
disproportioned to its real value; and that, under such circumstances, it is the unquestionable duty of a court of chancery to set aside the contract of sale.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

Mr. Justice CATRON dissented briefly; on the grouna
that the partnership, having been formed for the purpose
of speculating in soldi~rs' claims to warrants, the original
transaction was a fraud upon the act of Congress; violating
public policy; and that in such a case equity does not interfere.
BADGER v. BADGER.
Courts of equity, acting on their own inherent doctrine of discouraging,
for the peace of society, antiquated demands, refuse to interfere in
attempts to establish a stale trust, except where,
1. The trust is clearly established.
2. The facts have been fraudulently and successfully concealed by the
trustee from the knowledge of the cestui que trust.
And in cases for relief, the cestui que trusl should set forth in his bill, specifically, what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution of his
claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of his rights, and the means
used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance, and
how aad when he first came to a knowledge of his rights.
BADGER died in 1818, leaving a widow and ten children,
one of whom only was of age at that time; the others being

