IfAWTHOINB v. CALSF.

[Sup. ON

Statement of the case.

HAWTHORNE

V.

GALEF.

A State statute repealing a former statute, which made the stock of stockholders in a chartered company liable to the corporation's debts, is, as
respects creditors of the corporation existing at the time of the repeal,
a law impairing the obligation of contracts, and void. And this is so,
even though the liability of the stock is in some respects conditional
only; and though the stockholder was not made, by the statute repealed,
liable, in any way, in his person or property generally, for the corporation's debts.

THE Constitution of the United States ordains that "no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." With this provision in force, the State of Maine,
on the 1st April, 1836, incorporated a railroad company;
the charter providing that "the shares of the individual
stockholders should be liable for the debts of the corporation."
"And in case of dfciency of attachable corporate property or
estate," the provision went on to say, "the individualproperty,
rights, and credits of any stockholder shall be liable to the
amount of his stock, for all debts of the corporation contracted
prior to the transfer thereof, for the term of six months after
judgment recovered against said corporation; and the same
may be taken in execution on said judgment, in the same manner as if said judgment and execution were against him
individually; oR, said creditor, after said judgment, may
have his action on the case against said individual stockholder;
but in no case shall theproperty,rights, and creditsof said stockholder be taken in execution, or attached as aforesaid, beyond the amount of his said stock." Another section provides,
that if sufficient corporate property to satisfy the execution
could not be found, the officer having the execution should
certify the deficiency on the execution, and give notice
thereof to the stockholder whose property he was about to
take; and if such stockholder should show to the creditor or
officer sufficient attachable corporate property to satisfy the
debt, "his individualproperty, rights, and credits shall thereupon
be exempt from attachment and execution."
The plaintiff, Hawthorne, who had supplied the corpora.

Dec. 1864.]

D

.AWTHORNEV.

OALEF.

Argument for the creditor.

tion, then embarrassed and insolvent, with materials to build
its road, having obtained judgment as a creditor against it,
and being unable to get from it satisfaction (the company
having, in fact, no property), sued the defendant, Calef, who
was a stockholder, both at the time when the debt was contracted and when judgment for it was rendered; and no
transfer of whose stock had been made. A few months after
the debt was contracted, the legislature of Maine passed a
statute repealing the "individual liability" clause of the
charter.
On a question before the Supreme Court of Maine,-the
highest court of law in that State,-whether such repeal
was or was not repugnant to the clause, above cited, of the
Constitution, that court held that it was not; that the original provision,-not making the stockholder personally
liable in any way,-did not constitute a "contract" between,
the creditor and him, within the meaning of the Constitution; and that, while, but for the repealing act, the plaintiff
would have been entitled to recover of the stockholder individually to the extent of his stock, this repealing act had
taken away and destroyed such right.
Judgment being given accordingly, by the said court, in
favor of the State statute, the correctness of such judgment
was now, on error, before this court.
Mr. Curtis,for the creditor, Hawthorne: A charter is a contract between the State and the corporation; but not necessarily between them only. If it contain provisions on which
third persons are invited to give credit, and which hold out
assurances to them that if they will give credit a certain
fund, or certain persons, will become responsiole, such assurances, when accepted and acted on, become a contract, the
obligation of which is protected by the Constitution. Thus
in Woodruff v. Trapnal,* a charter contained the assurance
that the bills of a bank would be accepted in payment of
public dues. This was held to create a contract with all
* 10 Howard, 100.

IIAWTHORNE V. OALEF.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the creditor.

persons who should receive the bills while the assurance
remained unrepealed. So in Curranv. The State of Arkansas,*
the charter of a bank contained an assurance that a certain
fund should be responsible for the debts of the bank, and this
was held to amount to a contract with creditors not to divert
that fund from the payment of their debts. It has been held
by the courts of New York, that such an act of incorporation
as this is leaves the stockholders to stand as original contractors, and liable, as such original contractors, for the
debts of the corporation; and the fact that the legislature
has required the remedy against the corporation to be exhausted before proceeding against the stockholder does not
vary the nature or ground of his liability. In Corning v.
XcCullough,t the court say:
"The original stockholders, by their acceptance of the charter,
and subsequent purchasers in becoming members, assented and
agreed to the terms and conditions of the act of incorporation.
The defendant in this suit, in common with the other stockholders, by his acceptance of the charter, agreed to its terms,
and especially to that feature of it so strongly marked, of the
individual liability of the stockholders, equally with that of the
corporate body, for the debts of the company. It is a liability
which every stockholder must be understood to assume and take
upon himself, and to be under to those who deal with the company. Dealers contract with the corporation on the faith of
that security for the performance of the contract. The credit
they give is given, and they trust as well to the personal liability of the stockholders, as to the responsibility of the corporation, for the fulfilment of the engagement; and each stockholder
incurs that liability to the creditor the moment the contract of
such creditor with the company is consummated."
In Conant v. Van Schaick,j the question now under consideration arose; and it was held that a law repealing the liability of stockholders was inoperative as to existing creditors,
because it would impair the obligation of their contracts.
Even if it should be held that no contract existed with
* 15 Howard, 304

t 1 Comstock, 47.

24 Barbour, 87.

Dec. 1864.]

HAWTHORNE v. CALEF.
Argument for the creditor.

the plaintiff, save his contract with the corporation; still,
the law in question did impair the obligation of that contract. When the debts were contracted the plaintiff had
two remedies: one against the corporation, the other against
the stockholders. The former was, and was known to be,
wholly useless; the latter was sufficient and effectual; and
the law in question has destroyed this sole efficient and
effectual remedy, and substituted no other in its place.
Such a law impairs the obligation of the contract, to enforce
which the remedy was given. The principle which is decisive of this case, was laid down in Green v. Biddle.* That
principle is, that a laW, which so changes the nature and
extent of existing remedies as materially to impair the
rights of the creditor, impairs the obligation of his contract.
In Bronson v. Kinzie,t the State law restrained the creditor
from cutting off the right of redemption of mortgaged property, by a sale under a power contained in the mortgage;
and gave twelve months, after such sale, to redeem the property. It did not affect the plaintiff's right of action against
the debtor to recover the debt. It did not release the property held as collateral security for the debt; but it encumbered the remedy of the creditor upon his collateral security,
so as materially to impair it. For this reason the law was
held invalid.
In the case at bar, while the law in question does not affect
the plaintiR's right of action against an insolvent corporation
which contracted the debt, it deprives him of all recourse to
his remedy on the property of the stockholders, which the
charter had made liable for the debt. The difference between
the two cases is, that, in the case decided, the collateral remedy for the debt was only materially impaired; in the case
at bar it is destroyed.
In MeCracken v. Haywardt it was decided that a law prohibiting property from being sold on execution for less than
two-thirds of its appraised value, so impaired the remedy as
.o be invalid, upon the ground that, when the contract was
* 8 Wheaton, 1.

-f I Howard, 311.

12 Howard, 608.

14

HAWTHORNE V. CALEF.

[Sup CL

Argument for the stockholder.

made, the creditor had the absolute right to levy his execution and sell the property of the debtor. Now in the case
at bar, the charter of the corporation and the law of the
State had conferred on the creditor the right to levy his
execution on the property of the stockholders, or to subject
their property to the payment of the debt by an action on
the case. These laws of the State had, in the language of
the court, created this right, and attached it to the contract;
it was part of its obligation. As was said by the court, in
Curranv. The State of Arkansas, "The obligation of a contract, in the sense in which these words are used in the
Constitution, is that duty of performing it which is recognized and enforced by the laws. And if the law is so
changed, that the means of legally enforcing this duty are
materially impaired, the obligation of the contract no longer
remains the same.'
Mr. Shepley, contra, for the stockholder, CaIef: There was
no privity of contract between the creditors of the corporation and the individual members. They are, therefore, not
personally liable, unless this liability is expressly imposed
by statute. "Such liability," says Shaw, C. J., in Gray v.
coffin,* "is a wide departure from the established rules of
law, and is, therefore, to be construed strictly, and is not to
be extended beyond the limits to which it is carried by positive provisions of the statute."
Then the provisions relied on to give this personal responsibility recognize the corporation as an entity, capable of contracting debts; and these are its debts, and not the debts of
any other party. No other person is made liable for them :
nor is even any other thing made liable for them, originally,
"The shar-s
or absolutely, or wholly, or permanently.
of individual stockholders shall be liable for the debts of the
corporation." And only in case of deficiency of attachable corporate property, the individual property, rights, and credits of
any stockholder shall be liable, to the amount of his stock.
* 9 Cushing, 192.

Dec. 1864.]

DHAWTTHORNE V. (JALEF.
Argument for the stockholder.

This property might be taken on the execution, which had
been issued on the judgment against the corporation, to
which the stockholder was no party; OR, the creditor might
have his action on the case, on the statute; manifestly to
reach, by the process of foreign attachment, the "rights and
credits," which could not be reached by the execution against
the corporation. But in no case could property, rights, and
credits of a stockholder be taken in execution or attached,
beyond the amount of his stock. And the stockholder
could exempt his property entirely from the execution and
attachment, by disclosing and showing sufficient attachable
corporate property.
In all this, there is no recognition of any contract on the
part-of the stockholder, or liability under contract. The
remedy, to enforce whatever liability the statute creates,
excludes the theory of contract. It is a statute remedy, to
enforce a statute burden against the property of the stockholder.
What, then, the plaintiff had, was a remedy created by
statute. And the legislature has power to take away by
statute that remedy which statute alone gave. The exception is, that it may not take away vested rights. But the
rights of a party, when they exist only to the extent of statute
remedy, are not vested until after judgment.
It will be conceded that the legislature might take away
and destroy all legal process for compelling the corporation
to perform its contract, and still leave the liability of the
stockholder's property, and the creditor's statute right
'against that, unimpaired. So it may take away and destroy
all power to enforce any rights against the stockholders, or
their property, and leave the obligation of the corporation's
contract unimpaired.
The obligation of the maker of a promissory note is dif'
ferent from that of the indorser or guarantor of the same
note. But the holder has two remedies,-one against the
maker, the other against the indorser or guarantor. A law
which should take away the remedy against the indorser or
guarantor, would not impair the obligation of the maker's

H1AWTHORNE

V.

CALEF.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the stockholder.

contract expressed in the note,-though it would impair the
obligation of the contract with the indorser or guarantor.
If, now, the liability of the indorser or guarantor, instead
of arising from a contract, were arbitrarily imposed by a
statute, which declared, that whenever a promissory note
was made for a good consideration, certain relatives of the
maker, or neighbors, or religious, or literary, or political,
or business associates of his, should be liable, as guarantors
or indorsers of such note, who would be bold enough to
contend, that the repeal of such statutory liability would
impair the obligation of the contract between the maker
and the payee of such note? It would add no strength to an
argument in support of such a proposition, to say, that when
the payee of the note parted with the consideration for it,
he trusted to this liability which the statute imposed; or
that the maker was insolvent, and the remedy against him
was insufficient and useless, and that the repeal of the statute
liability of the other persons had taken away and destroyed
the only sufficient remedy which the payee had.
As respects the authorities cited by Mr. Curtis: Woodrff
v. Trapnal, and Curran v. The State of Arkansas, were both
decisions on the same charter, that of an Arkansas bank,
and both rested upon special facts.
The legislature of Arkansas had chartered a banking corporation, of which the State was the sole owner; and in the
charter had declared that the bills of this bank, which was
nothing but an agent of the State itself, should be received
in payment of debts due to the State. The bank, by its
charter, was simply a convenient ageut of the State to negotiate between the State and third parties, and its bills
were substantially bills of the State of Arkansas.
Speaking in another case* of its own decision, in Woodruff v. Trapnal, this court has said:
"We held that the charter constituted a contract between
the State and the holder of the bills of the bank; that the pledge
of the State to receive the notes of the bank, in payment of debts
* Paup et al. v. Drew, 10 Howard, 218.

Dec. 1864.]

HAWTHORNE V.

OALEF.

Argument for the stockholder.

was a standing guarantee, which embraced all the paper issued
by the bank until the guarantee was repealed: and that this construction was founded upon the fact, that the bank belonged exclusively to the State, was conducted by its officers, and for its benefit.
That, in this respect, the obligation of the contract applied to a
State equally as to an individual; and that as to the binding
force of a similar guarantee by an individual, there would seem
to be no ground for doubt."
To make the case at bar analogous to this, the stockholders
of our railroad company should be the supreme power which
chartered the company; so that the charter, instead of being
a contract between the State and the stockholders, should be
a contract between the stockholders who created it, and the
community who accepted and acted upon its guarantees,
voluntarily inserted in it by these stockholders. The State
of Arkansas had, in the cases relied on, promised to receive
the bills of their bank, expressly, by its charter, made by the
State. The stockholders of this railroad company simply
submitted to "liabilities and duties," to which the legislature
compelled them to be "subject."
The New York decisions furnish still less support to
the plaintiff's counsel. The passage from the opinion in
Corning v. M cG-ullough, in its reasoning, does, indeed, prima
facie, sustain this position; and if, as the counsel affirms,
this reasoning were predicated upon "such an act of incorporation" as that which incorporated the railroad company in
Maine, it would have some weight, though it would not, to
this court, be an authority. But the language of the charter
there was, "that the stockholders of the corporation shall be,
jointly and severally, personally liable for the payment of all
debts and demands contracted by the corporation." By their
charter, those stockholders were liable for the payment of
all debts and demands, not of the corporation, but contracted by the corporation. They were the stockholders'
debts, as well as the debts of the corporation,-contracted
by the corporation, as if it were the agent of the stock.
holders. The stockholders were liable; not the "property
rights, and 'redits" of the stockholders, nor their "share.,"
voL. ii.

2

18

HAWTHORNE V. CALEF.

[Sup. Ct

Reply for the creditor.

but the men themselves. They were liable for the payment
of all debts and demands; not to the amount of their stock or
shares which they severally owned, only. They were liable
in the first instance, at the very creation of the debt or demand; not only in case of deficiency of corporate property.
They were liable permanently; as long as the debt remained
a debt; not for a year only after the transfer of their stock,
or six months after judgment recovered against the corporation, on a suit brought within such year; but forever, if the
debt was kept alive; without any power of exonerating themselves by showing corporate property.
When Conant v. Van Schaik-the other New York case
relied on-was decided, a general statute of the State had
created certain corporations, by language precisely identical
with that in the charter considered in Corningv. Me Cullough;
and the liability of stockholders of one of these corporations
was, on the authority of Corning v. MeCullough, held to rest
on a contract, at common law, and, therefore, a statute repealing such liability was held to impair the obligation of a
contract.
Reply: The only question is, whether, when the repealing law destroyed the existing right of action by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover from him the amount
of the debt due to him fiom the corporation, it impaired the
obligation of a contract? One argument of the other side
is, that the right of the plaintiff was created by statute; that
the legislature have power to take away by statute what
was given by statute, except vested rights; and that the
right of a party when it exists only by statute, does not be.
come vested till after judgment. But this is erroneous doctrine when applied to this case.
1. The right of the plaintiff was not created by statute, and
did not exist "only by statute." It is true there was a statute in existence which enacted that if the plaintiff should
sell merchandise to a corporation which should fail to pay
for it, he should have a right of action against any one of its
stockholders to recover its price, to the amount of his stock.

Dec. 1z564.]

HAWTHORNE V. CATEF.
Reply for the creditor.

But this law did not create the plaintiff's right. This plaintiff parted with his merchandise to an insolvent corporation
on the faith of this liability which the defendant, by taking stock,
had assented to be subject to. The only effect of the law was
to apprise the parties that if such a sale should be made, the
defendant would come under a legal obligation to the plaintiff to pay the debt, and to create that legal obligation upon
the sale; just as the law apprises the vendee of goods, that
he will come under a legal obligation to the vendor for the
price, and creates that legal obligation on the sale. The
right in neither case is created by the law alone; but in
both cases the law does create the legal obligation; and in
one case just as entirely as in the other. It may be true that
a statute may take away what a statute has given, except
vested rights. But the question still remains whet~er this
plaintiff had not a vested right to the obligation of the defendant, and to some adequate remedy to enforce that obligation. In McCracken v. Hayward the right of the plaintiff
to sell the defendant's property on execution was given by
a State law. Yet it could not be taken away or impaired by
a State law, because the creditor had a vested right to
some adequate remedy, such as existed when his contract
was made. This plaintiff sold his property to an insolvent
corporation on the faith of the obligation of the defendant
to pay for it, and of the remedy the law then allowed him
to enforce the obligation of the defendant to perform the
contract.
If A. is under a complete legal obligation to B. to perform
the contract of 0., which B. can enforoe by an action against
A., and which contract B. made on the faith of A.'s obligation
to perform it, has not B. a vested right to have A. perform
the contract? and can A.'s obligation be released by law
without impairing the obligation of a contract, within the
meaning of the Constitution ? It is A.'s duty to perform the
contract. That duty is recognized and enforced by the law. The
law is so changed that this duty can no longer be enforced.
The ol-ligation of the contract which A. was under is released. Is it any a'iswer that C., an insolvent debtor, is yet

H1AWTHORNE V.

CALEF.

[8 Ip. ( t.

Reply for the creditor.

under the obligation of the contract? The contract created
two perfect and complete and several obligations,-one of A.,
the other of 0. One is as much the obligation of the contract as the other.
It is an unfounded assumption that the obligation of a contract can be incumbent only on the party that makes the provase.
The obligation of a contract is a duty of performing it recognized and enforced by the laws. An executor or administrator, though he has made no promise, is under a
legal duty to perform the contracts of the deceased; the obligation of the contract is incumbent on him; and a State law
releasing him would as clearly impair the obligation of the
contracts of the deceased as a law releasing the living debtor.
So a husband is bound to perform the contracts of his wife
before marriage. Without making any promise, he takes
on himself the legal duty of performing these contracts of
hers, by voluntarily entering into the marital relation at a
time when and place where the law made this duty incumbent on him. Could he be released without impairing
the obligation of such contracts? For still stronger reasons
was the obligation of this contract incumbent on the defendant. He voluntarily entered into such relations with
this corporation as created a perfect legal obligation to pay
this debt when it was contracted, and the plaintiff parted
with his property to an insolvent corporation on the faith of
this legal obligation incumbent on the defendant.
The defendant's counsel has pointed out a supposed distinction between the cases cited from the New York reports
and this case. It is that, in those cases, the charters made
the stockholders jointly and severally liable for all the debts
and demands contracted by the corporation. -But the defendants
were not contractors. The contracts were made by a third
person, viz., the corporation. The relation of the stockholders to the contracts was not created by the contracts t1 emselves, but by the law, as in this case; and the obligation of this
defendant to perform this contract is as complete and perfect,

Dec. 186-1.]

HAWTHORNE V.

OALEF.

Opinion of the court.

and arises from the same causes as the obligations of the de.
fendants in the cases in New York.
In those cases, as in this case, there was a liability created
by law, and made incumbent on one person to perform the
contracts of another person. If that liability could iot be
discharged without impairing the obligation of a contract,
how can this liability be discharged without a similar violation of the Constitution?
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question upon the provisions of the charter of the
railroad company-in connection with the sale of the property by the plaintiff to the corporation, out of which this
:debt accrued-is, whether a contract, express or implied,
existed between him and the stockholder?
It is asserted, in behalf of the latter, that a c6 ntract ex
isted only between the creditors and the corporation; and
that the obligation of the stockholder rests entirely upon a
'statutory liability, destitute of any of the elements of a contract.
Without stopping to discuss the question upon the clause
of the statute, we think that the case falls within the principle of Woodruff v. :Tapnal,* and Curran v. State of Arkansas,t heretofore decided in this court.
In the first of these cases, the charter of the bank provided that the bills and. notes of the institution should be
received in all payment of debts due to the State. The bank
was chartered 2d November, 1836. On the 10th January,
1845, this provision was repealed, and the question was,
whether or not, after this repeal, the bills and notes of the
bank, outstanding at the time, were receivable for debts due
to the State. The court held, after a very full examination,
that the clause in the charter constituted a contract with the
holders of the bills and notes on the part of the State, and
that the repealing act was void as impairing the obligation
of the contract.
10 Howard, 190.

t 15 Id., 804.

IIAWTHORNE V.

CALEF.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

In the second case, the charter of the bank contained a'
pledge or assurance that certain funds deposited therein
should be devoted to the payment of its debts. It was held
by the court, that this constituted a contract with the creditors, and that the acts of the legislature withdrawing these
funds were void, as impairing the obligation of the contract.
Now, it is quite clear that the personal liability clause
in the charter, in the present case, pledges the liability or
guarantee of the stockholders, to the extent of their stock,
to the creditors of the company, and to which pledge or
guarantee the stockholders, by subscribing for stuck and
becoming members of it, have assented. They thereby
virtually agree to become security to the creditors for the
payment of the debts of the company, which have been
contracted upon the faith of this liability.
This question has been repeatedly before the courts of the
State of New York, and they place the obligation of the
stockholders upon two grounds. Thefirst is that of contract.
In Corning v. Mcullough,* Chancellor Jones, then in the
Court of Appeals, observes that the liability of the defendant,
upon which the action is grounded, is for the payment of a
debt of the company incurred by the purchase of merchandise of the plaintiffs, for the use and benefit of the company,
and wherein the defendant, as one of the members, was interested, and for which he thereby, and under the provisions
of the charter, became and was, concurrently with the company, from the inception of the debt, personally liable. It
is, he says, virtually and in effect, a liability upon a contract
and the mutual agreement of the parties; not, indeed, in
form an express personal contract, but an agreement of
equally binding obligation, consequent upon and resulting
fi ora the acts and admissions or implied assent of the parties.
The second ground is upon the view that the legislature, by
subjecting the stockholders to personal liability for the debts
of the company, thereby removed the corporate protection
1 Comstock, 47, 49.

Dec. 1864.]

IIAWTHORNE V.

CALEF.

Opinion of the court

from them as corporators, and left them liable as partners
and associates as at common law.*
There is another view of the case, involving a violation
of the principal contract between the creditors and the cor.
poration, which we think equally coidlusive against the
judgment of the court below. This view rests upon a principle decided in Bronson v. Kinzie,t and the several subsequent cases of this class. There Kinzie executed a bond
mortgage to Bronson, conditioned to pay $4Q00 on the 1st of
July, 1842, and covenanted, that in case of default, the mortgagee should sell the premises at public auction, and convey
them to the purchaser. Subsequently to the execution on
the mortgage, the legislature passed a law that mortgagora
on a sale of the premises, under a decree of foreclosure in
chancery, should have a right to redeem them at any time
within twelve months from the day of sale. By another law
it was provided, that when the premises were offered for
sale, they should not be struck off unless at two-thirds of a
previous valuation. The court held that these acts so seriously affected the remedy of the mortgagee as to impair
the obligation of the mortgage contract within the meaning
of the Constitution, and declared them void.- lNow, applying the principle of this class of cases to the present one, by
the clause in the charter subjecting the property of the stockholder, he becomes liable to the creditor, in case of the inability or insolvency of the company for its debts, to the
extent of his stock. The creditor had this security when
the debt was contracted with the company over and above
its responsibility. This remedy the repealing act has not
merely modified to the prejudice of the creditor, but has
altogether abolished, and thereby impaired the obligation
of his contract with the company.
We are of opinion, upon both of the grounds above recited, thai the court below erred.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.
* Conant v. Van Schaick, 24 Barbour, 87.

1 Howard, 811.

