366

TIlE SLAVERS. (SARAL.)

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for the mere purpose of chartering her for an ordinary
trading voyage. The charter-party is not produced, nor is
any reason given for its non-production. The crew-list represented all the persons named on it as Americans born,
and it was sworn to by Otto, but the proof shows conclusively, that no'.her the master nor mate were Americans,
and deprives the oath, which represents the others as such,
of all claim to credit.
We do net think it necessary to examine the evidence more
in detail. The case presents none of the marks of an honest
transaction, but bears upon it such indications of the guilty
purpose to employ the bark in the slave-trade, that we
should require clear explanation by convincing proof to
repel the conclusion that such was her destined employment.
But there is no such explanation. There is no attempt to
clear the case of the damaging inferences which the destina
tion of the voyage, the character of the vessel and cargo, and
the character and acts of the parties prominently connected
with both, irresistibly suggest.
We conclude, therefore, that both were rightly condemned
by the District Court, and
AF~iRm ITS DECREE.

THE SLAVERS. (SAR~AH.)
The principles of the preceding case (The Kate), redeclared in, this case,
and a vessel bound to the west coast of Africa, condemned under circumstances-individually not very strong, but collectively of weigat-raising a presumption, which there was no attempt to overcome by
explanation, that she was about to engage in the slave-trade.

LIKE the preceding case, this was a libel of forfeiture, filed
in the District Court for the Southern District of New York,
against a vessel and cargo, under the 1st section of the act
of Congress of 22d March, 1794,* and the 2d of that of 20th
April, 1818,t prohibiting persons engaging in the slavetrade.
*I Stat. at Large, 347-

-t 3 Id. 450.

Dec. 1864.]

eTHE SLAVERS. (S.AAH.)
Statement of the case.

The former declares that no person shall "build, fit,
equip, load, or otherwise prepare any ship or vessel, within
any port or place of the United States, nor shall cause any
ship or vessel to sail from any port or place within the same,
for the purpose of carrying on any trade or traffic in slaves,
to any foreign country; or for the purpose of procuring
from any foreign kingdom, place, or country, the inhabitants of such kingdom, place, or country, to be transported
to any foreign country, port, or place whatever, to be sold oi
disposed of as slaves; any ship or vessel so fitted out, &c.,
to be forfeited to the United States," &c.
The latter is of an import essentially the same; its language being, "for the purpose of procuring any negro,
mulatto, or person of color."
One Couillard intervened, on the 3d of May, 1861, as
claimant and bailee of the cargo, which was stated to belong
to R. J. Arguelles, who, however, did not in any way appear. Arguelles, or some person bearing that name, had
sworn to it as of the value of $22,000. There was no denial
that the vessel was on her voyage to the African coast. Her
clearance, in fact, had been for Cape Palmas.
The Sarah was a bark of about 260 tons, 103 feet long,
25 feet broad, 11 feet 3 inches deep, with three masts, was
similar to the Kate, condemned (supra, p. 366) for being engaged in the slave-trade. She was clipper-built, intended
for fast sailing, with high and light spars, calculated to carry
a press of canvas, and sharp. Her cooking-galley was 19 to
20 feet long, and wide in proportion. She had on deck a
number of extra spars, similar to those on the Kate, and be.
sides her ordinary boats, two large surf-boats. The manifest
showed a large quantity (19,448 gallons) of what is called
"oil-cask shucks," with a proportionate quantity of iron
hoops and rivets. These would hold water as well as oil.
It was proved that these casks--" oil casks"-are found in
large quantities on nearly all vessels condemned as slavers.
On examining the cargo, 15 or 16 barrels of beef or pork
not on the manifest, also 16 barrels of bread and 6 barrels
of flour, and 1 fierce of rice, marked for the homeward

THE SLAVERS. (SARAmu.)

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

passage in plain letters, were found on the vessel. There
were half a dozen water-casks on deck, besides the casks in
shucks on manifest, which were of the same style as those
on board the Kate.
The manifest showed 150 hogsheads of rum, also cases of
muskets.
On the 7th of March, 1861, Augustus Head, Jr., of Boston, had purported to sell the bark to one "C. P. Smith, of
the city of New York," for $9250, and he, on the 11th of
March, sold her to Couillard, the intervener, for $10,000.
No proof of actual sale was made. De Graw, a clerk in the
custom-house for seven years, testified that, on the sale or
transfer of slavers, he had noticed that there are usually two
or three transfers made previous to the sailing; that he did
not know of any P. C. Smith engaged in the trade; that he
had looked in New York city directories carefully for C. P.
Smith for five years; that the name was not there; and had
looked (though in vain) in one Brooklyn directory. The
claimant did not attempt to prove the existence of such a
person. De Graw, the clerk above mentioned, stated that
he knew the principal houses in New York engaged in the
legal trade to the African coast, but did not know any such
persons as Couillard or Arguelles.
The deputy marshal who seized the bark stated that he
seized her fifteen miles down the New York bay. When
approaching, and within half a mile of her, he saw through
a spy-glass that several persons on board were examining
the vessel he was on, and that immediately after, from the
vessel which they were watching, somebody threw a box,
about 2 by 3 feet in size, overboard, which sank. Couillard
was on board, in command, when this occurred. He gave
no explanation of the fact.
In addition to the facts already stated, it appeared that
one Miller, who had shipped under the name of Reed, had
authority to ship men for the voyage, and to exercise control in the absence of Captain Couillard. He stated to a
seaman named Delano that he was to be the actual master

. Dec. 1864.']

THE SLAVERS. (SARAH.)
Opinion of the court.

of the vessel. He shipped Delano under the name of Cornstock, and paid his advance-money.
Delano swore that Miller, "on board, acted as captain,
mate, and all hands," and signed receipts for the cargo.
Miller, in the act of employing Delano, represented himself
as master of the vessel; said "he was going to the coast of
Africa; was going black-birding," and sometimes used the
word "ebony," and tried to induce the witness to go along
by giving him liquor, and by promises of large profits. He
said, "If you go with me, you will be gone about four
months, and have about $3000 or $4000 when you get back."
On another occasion, he said that "he was going over to
the coast of Africa, and wanted me to go as second mate."
Such, at least, was the testimony of some of these parties.
There was, however, no more specific evidence against the
vessel. No manacles nor unusual supply of medicines were
found on her, and the cargo was one which would have
suited a lawful voyage to the African coast.
The District Court condemned the bark. The Circuit
Court affirmed the decree. Appeal here. After an able
argument by Mr. Evarts for the appellant, and by Mlr. Coffey,
special counsel of the United States, contra,Mr. Justice CLIFFORI) delivered the opinion of this court.
'This was a case of seizure and forfeiture, and the case
comes before the court on appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
Referring to the transcript, it will be seen that the libel of
information was against the bark Sarah, her tackle, apparel,
and furniture, and the lading on board, and that a decree
was entered in the District Court condemning both the
vessel, &c., and her cargo, as forfeited to the use of the
United States. Appeal was taken by the claimant to the
Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard, but the
Circuit Court affirmed the decree, and the claimant agaip
appealed to this court.
1. Allegations of the libel are founded upon the first see,
VOL. II.

24

THE SLAVERS. (SARAH.)

[BUD.
S.at Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion of the act of the twenty-second of March, 1794, and
the second section of the act of the twentieth of April, 1818,
prohibiting any person or persons from engaging in the
slave-trade. In order to entitle the libellants to a decree of
condemnation, they must prove either that the vessel was
fitted, equipped, loaded, or otherwise prepared for the
voyage, or that she was caused to sail on the voyage in
which she was engaged for the purpose of carrying on a
trade or traffic in slaves to some foreign country, or for the
purpose of procuring from some foreign country, &c., the
inhabitants of such country, to be transported to some other
foreign country, port, or place, to be sold or disposed of as
slaves, or for the purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes,
or persons of color from some foreign country, to be transported to any port or place whatsoever, to be held, sold, or
otherwise disposed of as slaves, or to be held to service or
labor.*
2. Intervening for the interest of himself as owner of the
bark and bailee of the cargo, the appellant, on the third day
of May, 1861, made claim in the District Court to the vessel
and cargo, averring that he was in possession of the same at
the time of the seizure, and that he was the true and bona
fide owner of the vessel and the bailee of the cargo on board.
One of the charges is the fitting out of the vessel, and the
other is the causing the vessel to sail, either of which, if
proved, will induce a forfeiture. Full proof is exhibited that
the vessel had completed her fitting, equipment, and lading,
and that she was avowedly proceeding on a voyage to the
west coast of Africa, when she was boarded and seized.
Obviously, therefore, the main question is one oi fact, whether she was fitted out, equipped, and loaded, and was proceeding to that coast for the purpose of a lawful trade, or for
the purpose of engaging in the trade or traffic in slaves.
Undoubtedly, the statutory offence is completed when the
preparations for the voyage have reached a stage which
shows satisfactorily that the purpose of the fitting and equip.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 347

3 Id. 451.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (SARAH.)
Opinion of the court.

ment was such as is described in the libel of information.
Plainly, the object of the law is to prevent the preparation
of vessels in our ports for that trade; and, consequently, the
law looks at the intention, and confers the authority to take
from the offender the means required to enable him to perpetrate the mischief.*
8. Argument for the United States is that the evidence
clearly shows that the voyage for which the bark was fitted
and prepared, and which she commenced from the port of
iNew York under a clearance for Cape Palmas, on the western
coast of Africa, was undertaken for the purpose and with the
intent of engaging in the slave-traffic. Claimant denies that
proposition, and insists that the evidence offired to prove the
allegation is wholly insufficient to warrant any such finding,
and, consequently, that both the District and Circuit Courts
were in error. He admits, however, that the character of
the vessel, her size, build, and equipment, do not absolutely
exclude the conclusion that she was capable of such service.
Denial of the fact involved in the admission could not well
be made, because the proofs are full to the point, not only
that she was capable of such service, but that she was, in all
respects, well suited to the service, and, indeed, that she was
such a vessel as those engaged in the nefarious traffic usually
select as best modelled for such an adventure.
4. Unlike what is usual in cases of this description, the
destination of the vessel is admitted; and it cannot be denied that the destination would have carried her to markets
where it is known that the traffic in slaves is prosecuted.
Proofs show that she was a vessel of about two hundred and
sixty tons burden; that she was a hundred and three feet
in length, twenty-five feet in breadth, and eleven feet and
three inches deep. She was clipper-built, with three masts,
and was adapted for a large press of canvas, and was fastsailing. Expert witnesses also say that she had a number of
extra spars on her deck, similar to other vessels condemned
as slavers; and that besides her ordinary boats, she had two
* The Emily and Caroline, 9 Wheaton 881.

372

THE SLAVERS.

(SARAII.)

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

large surf-boats not needed by a vessel bound to a regulay
commercial port. Certain articles of the cargo are also significant of an unlawful purpose. Unusually large quantities
of shooks for casks appear on the manifest, and also a proportionate quantity of iron for hoops and rivets for fastening
the same. " Casks in shooks" are the words of the manifest, and the quantity stated is nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-eight gallons for oil; but it is quite obvious
that the shooks, when set up and hooped, would be as suitable to hold fresh drinking-water as oil; and the evidence
shows that they are found in large quantities on most or all
of the vessels condemned as slavers. Some half dozen watercasks were on deck, besides the casks in shooks appearing
on the manifest. Fifteen barrels of beef and pork were
found on board not on the manifest, and sixteen barrels of
bread, and six barrels of flour, and one fierce of rice, plainly
marked for the homeward voyage. Other articles on the
manifest, which deserve notice, are ten cases of muskets,
eleven hogsheads of tobacco, and one hundred and fifty
hogsheads of rum, which, the expert witnesses say, is a wellknown article of trade in the purchase of negroes. One of
the expert witnesses, who had been an entrance and clearance
clerk in the custom-house at New York for seven years, tes.
tified that he had noticed that vessels designed to be used iL
the slave-trade were usually transferred two or three times
just previous to the sailing of the vessel; and in this case it
appears that the bark was, on the seventh day of March,
1861, sold by one Augustus Head to one C. P. Smith, of the
city of New York, for the sum of nine thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; and that the purchaser, four days
afterwards, conveyed the same to the present owner. None
of the witnesses know the last-named grantor, and one of
them testifies that he has looked carefully into the directories of the city of New York and of the city of Brookl.yn
for the last five years, and that he can find no such name.
Suspicion also attaches to the conduct of the present owner,
both in his character as such, and as master for the voyage.
and he has not employed any proper means to repel that sus.

Dec. 1864.]

TnE SLAVERS: (SARAH.)
Opinion of the court.

picion. He has produced a bill of sale fr-om 0. P. Smith,
but he has not introduced the grantor as a witness or either
of the witnesses of the bill of sale. And he has failed to
show, what might easily be proved, if true, that he actually
paid the consideration expressed in the bill of sale or any
other sum for the vessel, or that there is or ever was any
such person as the one therein named as his grantor.
5. Common prudence required him to explain these matters, and yet he has neglected to do so; and he has also
neglected to furnish other explanations of equal importance:
As, for example: the bill of lading discloses the fact that the
vessel was under a charter-party, but he neither produces
the instrument nor attempts to account for its absence. Testimony was also introduced by the libellants showing, beyond controversy, that as the boarding officers approached
the vessel for the purpose of seizing her, some person or
persons on board the bark were seen to throw overboard a
large box, which immediately sank, and yet the claimant
does not attempt to explain the transaction. Although he
claims as bailee of the cargo, still he offers no proof to show
where or by whom it was purchased, or how or by whom it
was paid for, and furnishes no explanation upon the subject.
Evidence to show that he was engaged in any legitimate
trade to that quarter of the globe, or that he had any connection with any commercial house lawfully trading on that
coast, is entirely wanting; and it does not appear that he
had made any arrangements for an honest return cargo.
Large quantities of beef, pork, and bread, not on the manifest, were found on board, but he offers no explanation of
the matter, and does not even examine the mate or any one
of the crew. Shipper of the cargo, R. J. Arguelles, is not
introduced, although it appears that the value of the shipment, as sworn to by him, was twenty-two thousand dollars;
still, he does not appear as claimant, nor is he examined as
a witness. Appellant claims the cargo as bailee, but he nowhere states or proves for whom he is blailee, and nothing in
the case shows satisfactorily who is the real Dwner of the
goods.

THE SLAVERS. (SARAH.)

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

6. Considered as a whole, the various circumstances to
which reference has been made afford very strong ground
of presumption that the allegations of the libel of information are true. Evidence which satisfies the mind of the
truth of the fact in dispute, to the entire exclusion of every
reasonable doubt, says Mr. Starkie, constitutes full proof of
the fact, and it would seem that the combined force of these
various circumstances can scarcely fail to generate that full
belief.*
Doubt cannot be entertained, that the circumstances adverted to are fully established, and it is certain that they are
consistent with the hypothesis assumed by the United States.
Some of them, it must be admitted, if separately considered,
are not of a conclusive nature and tendency, but taken as a
whole, it is difficult to say that they do not satisfy the mind
of the truth of the charge, even to the exclusion of every
reasonable doubt.
7. Suppose it were otherwise, however, still there is direct
evidence in the case which, when considered in connection
with the circumstantial facts, fully establishes the charge.
Reference is here made to the statements of the mate, who
is proved to have shipped under a false name, and the whole
evidence shows that he had authority to ship men for the
voyage, and to exercise control in the absence of the master.
Suggestion of the appellees is that he was to have been the
master for the voyage, and it must be admitted that there
are many facts and circumstances in the case which give
countenance to that theory, but it is unnecessary to determine the point in this investigation, as it is clearly proved
that he was authorized to ship men as part of the crew, and
to perform the duties of master, when the person recognized
as such in the ship's papers was absent. Seaman Delano
was shipped by him under the name of Comstock, and he
collected his advance-money from the clerk of the shipping
notaries, and paid it to the seaman as one of the crew. Delano testifies that the mate "acted as master, mate and all
* 1 Starkie on Evidence, p. 450.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)
Statement of the case.

hands," and it is fully shown that he signed receipts foi
cargo. While in the act of employing the seaman, when
clearly he was acting as master of the vessel, he stated that
he was going to the coast of Africa, and that he was to be
master of the vessel. He also "said he was going blackbirding," and endeavored to persuade the witness to enlist
and go with him, by promises of large profits. Among other
things, he also stated that they would be gone about four
months, and that the witness, if he would go, would have
three or four thousand dollars when he got back; and on
another occasion, he stated that the bark was going on a
trading voyage to the African coast, and would probably
bring back some negroes. Viewed in connection with the
circumstantial evidence, these statements are regarded as
affording full proof of the truth of the allegations contained
in the libel of information. Such were the views of the
District and Circuit Courts, and we have no doubt they are
correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AriFnRmED.

THE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)
The general principle declared in Th Kate and of The Sarah (supra,pp. 866,

872) acted on in a case of the same general type, but where the facts
were more close.
Where the size, build, equipment, and cargo of a vessel-the non-appearance and doubtful existence of her asserted owners-the non-production
by the claimant of important witnesses, and other circumstances, lead
to a presumption that her purpose is to engage in the slave-trade, and
no attempt is made to repel that presumption by explaining the suspicious circumstances, the vessel may be condemned as a slaver. The
fact that she is cleared for China, does not of itself repel the presumption, the clearance being vid Ambriz, a Portuguese port on the west
coast of Africa, and that port being within about one hundred miles of
the Slave-coast.

THIs, like the two preceding cases, was a libel filed in the

District Court for the Southern District of New York, against

