Dee. 1864.]

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL

Co.

609

Statement of the case.

simple people, a parol transfer of this interest was as effectual as if it had been in writing.
JUDGMENT REVERSED

with costs, and cause remanded with

directions to issue
NEW vEiE.

MNNESOTA COMPANY V. ST. PAUL CoMPANY.
1. *Where a bill in equity is necessary to have a construction of the orders,
decrees, and acts made or done by a Federal court, the bill is properly
filed in such Federal court as distinguished from any State court; and
it may be entertained in such Federal court, even though parties who
are interested in having the construction made would not, from want
of proper citizenship, be entitled to proceed by original bill of any kind
in a court of the United States.
In such a case the question will not be, whether the bill filed is supplemental or original in the technical sense of equity pleading; but whether
it is to be considered as supplemental, or entirely new and original, in
that sense which the Supreme Court has sanctioned with reference to
the line that divides jurisdiction of the Federal courts from that of the

State courts.
2. A railroad company, owning the whole of a long railroad, and all the
rolling stock upon it, may assign particular portions of such rolling
stock to particular divisions,-certain cars, for example, to one division; the residue of the rolling stock to another,-and mortgage such
portions with such divisions, so as to attend them. Whether the company have so mortgaged their rolling stock is a question of intention.
In the present case it was decided that they had.
8. Qu -: Whether a marshal's sale is valid in any case, unless supported
by a judicial order previously made. It is not valid where made under
the marshal's wrong interpretation of an order which the court did in
fact make; not valid in such a case even where the court confirmed of
record the marshal's sale; the court's attention not being specifically
directed to the marshal's mistake, nor any issue raised as to what the
court really meant, nor decision made, on such issue raised, that the

marshal's act should remain firm.
THE La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company was
chartered by the legislature of Wisconsin to build a road
across-that State from Milwaukie to La Crosse, and began
VOL. U.

89

610

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to build at Milwaukie, proceeding westward. The legislature also gave the company the right to mortgage, for tho
purpose of raising money, any particuilar division of their
road separately. Under this provision of the statute, and
for the purpose apparently of mortgaging them separately,
the company divided the main road into two divisions, nearly
equal in length, called the Eastern Division and the Western
Division; the Eastern Division extending from Milwaukie
to Portage City, ninety-five miles, and the Western from Portage to La Crosse, one hundred and five miles. Upon each

0'

WATERTOWN. .....

".....

f.ilwa-

e&

10 WA.~
of these divisions of the road, as well also as upon the entire
road, AND upon the rolling stock, either of each division, or of
the entire road,-this exact matter of whether the rolling
stock mortgaged did belong to the road as a whole, or to it
in its divided character, being one of the questions in this
suit,-it gave certain mortgages; among them these:
ON THE WESTERN DIVISION.

ON THE EASTERN DIVISION.

1856, -December 31.-A mort- 1854, June 30.-A mortgage
gage to Bronson, Soutter and to Palmer, sometimes called the

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

611

Statement of the case.

Knapp, commonly called the First, and sometimes the Palmer
Land Grant Mortgage. This Mortgage.
mortgage conveyed also a road,
The descriptive part of the
not important to be here spoken. mortgage was as follows:
of, from Madison, &c.
"All their said road, from its eastThe descriptive part of this
ern termination, in the city of Milmortgage was as follows:
"All and singular the several
tracts, pieces, or parcels of land which
now are, or may hereafterbe, or constitute the site of the roadway, turnouts, engine-houses, workshops, depots, and other buildings, and all the
other lands and real estate which now
constitute, or may hereafter constitute, or be a part of the roads of said
railroad company from Madison, &c.,
and from Portage City to La Crosse;

and also all and singular the superstructure of said roads, whether now
made, or to be made hereafter, and
all the engine-houses, workshops,
depots, and other buildings, and all
the other improvements on or pertaining to said roads, whether now
built and made, or to be built and
made hereafter; and also all and singular the locomotive engines and other
rolling stock, and all other equipments
of every kind and description which
have already been, or may hereafter be,
procuredfor or used on said roads, or
either of them; and all the materials,
tools, implements, utensils, and other

waukie, to Portage City, being ninetyfive miles in distance, constructed,
and to be constructed, together with
all and singular the railways, land
procured or occupied, or so to be, for
right of way within the limits aforesaid, together with bridges, fences,
privileges, rights, and real estate
owned by said company for the purposes of said road, or which may
hereafter be acquired or owned by
them within the limits aforesaid; and
all the tolls, income, issues, and profits to be had from the same, and all
lands used for and occupied within
the limits aforesaidby depots and stations, with all buildings standing
thereon, or which shall be procured
therefor, together with all locomotives,
engines and tenders,passenger carsand
freight cars, shop-tools and machinery,
now owned or hereafter to be acquired
by said company, and in any way belonging or appertainingto said railroad,
now constructed or to be constructed
within the limits aforesaid,including
all its property, real and personal,
pertaining to said railroad, within
said limits, and all its rights, credits,
and franchises thereunto appertaining."

personal property which have been,
or may hereafter be, procured for or
used in connection with said roads,
or either of them; and also all and
The mortgage went on-after
singular the rights, liberties, privileges, and franchises of said railroad the descriptive part abovegiven
company, of every kind and descrip- -to say:

tion, relating to said roads."

"But nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to prevent
the said company from selling, hypothecating, or otherwise disposing of
any lands or other property of said

312

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
company not necessary to be retained
for the roadway, depots and stations, nor required for the construction or convenient use of thatpartof
saidroad,nor from collecting moneys
due said company on stock subscription or otherwise; nor shall anything
herein contained be so construed as
to prevent the said parties of the first
part from collecting and appropriating towards the construction, use
and repair of the remaining parts of
said road westward towards the Mississqppi River, all stock subscriptions,
donations, or loans of money, lands
or other property which may have
been, or may hereafter be, made for
that purpose; but said parties of the
first part shall have full right so to
proceed, without let or hindrance
from said party of the second part.
And the remainingportion of the said
railroadwhich, by the said parties of
the first part, may be constructed,
shall be held in use by the said parties
of the first part, to their own benefit
and behoof forever, so far as the
claims of the said party of the second
part, or his successor, might otherwise be construed as in conflict therewith. It being distinctly understood
that the conveyance made by this
indenture is only for so much of the
present or hereafter to be acquired
rights, interest andprcperoyof the said
company, parties of the first part, as
are or shall be vested, or belong or
appertain to that part of said railroad
extending from Mil1waukie to Portage
City aforesaid, and being in distance
.Ainety-five miles."
1857, August 17.-A mortgage
to G. C. Bronson and T J. Soutter, commonly called the Second
Mortgage. This mortgage also
conveyed the Eastern Division
and a road not important to be

Dec. 186-1.]

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

618

Statement of the case.
here spoken of,from Watertown
to Midland. Its language was
thus:
"And also, all and singular the
locomotive engines, and other rolling
stock, and all the other equipments
of every kind and description, which
have already been or may hereafter be
procuredfor, or used on, said railroads,
or either of them; and all the mate-

rials, tools, implements, and utensils,
and other personal property, which
have been or may hereafter be procured for or used in connection with
said railroads,or either of them; and

also all and singular the rights, liberties, privileges, and franchises of said
railroad company, so far as they relate to said railroads from Milwaukio
to Portage City, and from Watertown, by way of Columbus, to Midland aforesaid; and it is hereby declaredtobethe intention of the parties
to convey to and vest in said parties
of the second part all the property,
real and personal, of said railroad
company, to be acquired hereafter,
as well as that which has already
been acquired, together with all the
rights, liberties, privileges, and franchises of said railroad company, in
respect to said railroadfrom Milwaukie
to PortageCity, and from Watertown,
by the way of Columbus, to Midland, as

fully and amply as the same might
be conveyed if said railroads had
already been fully constructed and
equipped."
OVER THE WHOLE ROAD.

1858, June 1. A .Mortgage to W. Barnes.-This mortgage conveyed the whole road from Mflwaukie to La Crosse, and all the
rolling stock, personal property, franchises, choses in action, and .
property of the debtor company, real, personal, and mixed. Its
descriptive part need not be more fully given.

The Barnes mortgage, though given lastwas first fore-

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

closed. Sale under it was made in May, 1859. The Durchasers organized themselves into a company, as the statutes
of Wisconsin allow in like cases, and took the name of the
Xilwaulde andIiiinnesotaRailroad Company; often, for brevity,
styled the Minnesota Company simply; conceiving and asserting that they had succeeded to all the rights, property,
and franchises of the old company,-subject, of course, to
prior mortgages.
In December, 1859, Bronson, Soutter, and Knapp, the
trustees in the Land Grant mortgage on the Western Division, filed a bill in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Wisconsin, having Circuit Court powers
to foreclose their mortgage, making the mortgagor company, the Minnesota Company, and others, defendants.
At the same time, that is, in December, 1859, Bronson
and Soutter, trustees in the second mortgage (on the Eastern
Division), proceeded, in the same court, to foreclose their
mortgage, making the same defendants.
All the mortgagees in each of these mortgages, the first,
or Palmer; the second, or Bronson and Soutter; and in the
Land Grant, or Bronson, Soutter, and Knapp, were citizens
of the State of New York, and were entitled, therefore, to sue,
as they did sue, their mortgagor company in the Federalcourts.
In 1860, the District Court, in a creditor's suit in favor
of one Howard against the old company, appointed Hans
Crocker receiver of the whole road and rolling stock, and he
entered into possession under this appointment. In the Western Division foreclosure suit, the same person was appointed
receiver of the Western Division and rolling stock pertaining thereto; and afterwards, in the Eastern Division suit, an
order was made appointing him also receiver of the road
from Milwaukie to La Crosse, and all the rolling stock and
franchises, "subject, nevertheless, to a previous order of
court appointing him to be the receiver of the western por
tion of said road, from Portage City to La Crosse."
The two foreclosure suits-of the Land Grant on the Western Division, and of the second mortgage on the Easternprogressed in the District Court to final decrees, and the

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAUL CO.
Statement of the case.

orders and proceedings were as follows, the judge who made

them having delivered an opinion that the rolling stock was
a fixture of the road:
ORDERS OF REFERENCE.
(March 11, 1861.)
WESTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

"That the masters ascertain and
report the whole amount of rolling
stock on the road, and that they specify the quantity thereof that is covered by and included in this mortgage, and also in the first and second
mortgages respectively."

EASTERN DIVISION

CAUSE.

"That the masters ascertain and
report the whole amount of rolling
stock on the whole road, and that
they specify the quantity thereof that
is covered by and included in the first
mortgage, and also in this mortgage,
and in the mortgage of Bronson,
Soutter, and Knapp" [i. e., the Land
Grant mortgage, or mortgage on the
Western Division].

REPORTS OF MASTERS.
(September 1, 1861.)
WESTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

EASTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

"We have ascertained the whole
amount of rolling stock on the whole
road at the cost price. The amount
thereof was, at the date of the filing
of the bill in this cause, $569,635.78;
and an additional amount of $53,600
has been purchased since the filing of
this bill, making the whole amount
to $623,235.78.
"And we have ascertained and report that of the said rolling stock,
forty box cars, amounting, at the cost
price thereof, to $31,979.64, and numbered 380 [the numbers of forty cars
were here given, up to No. 408], &c.,
are covered by and included in the
mortgage executed to the complainants [Bronson, Soutter, and Knapp]
as set forth in the bill, the said cars
having been purchased by the proceeds of a portion of the bonds to
which this mortgage is collateral;
and all the -eminderof the said rolling stock is covered by and included

"We have ascertained the whole
amount of rolling stock on the whole
road. The amount thereof, at the
cost price, was, at the date of filing
the bill of complaint in this cause,
$569,635.78;
and an additional
amount of $53,600 has been purchased since the filing of the bill,
making the whole amount now on
the road $623,235.78.
1'And we have ascertained, and do
further report, that of the said rolling stock, forty box cars, amounting,
at the costprice thereof, to $31,979.64,
and numbered 830 [the numbers of
forty cars were here. given, the same
cars as mentioned in the left hand
column], &c., are covered by and included in the mortgage of Bronson,
Soutter, and Knapp, and no other;
and all the remainderof the said rolling stock is covered by and included
in the first mortage upon the said
railroad, and in the complainants'

MINNEsorA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.
in the first i. e., the Palmer] mortgage upon the said railroad, and in
the mortgage upon the said railroad
executed to Bronson and Soutter on
the 17th day of August, A.D. 1857."

mortgage specified in the bill of complaint."

These reports, therefore, which found the amount and cost
of the rolling stock, gave forty cars, designated by numbers,
to the Western Division and to the Land Grant mortgage,
and the residue to the Eastern Division and the mortgagees
of it. The complainants in both suits were apparently dis
satisfied. The parties seeking to foreclose on the Eastern
Division wanted not only all that the masters gave them,
but the forty cars that were allowed to the Western Division ; while the parties seeking to foreclose on the Western
Division wanted not only the forty cars allowed them, but
all the other rolling stock; with some exceptions which they
stated. The respective complainants accordingly filed
EXCEPTIONS TO THE MASTERS' REPORTS.
WESTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

"4th. For that the masters have
certified that all the rolling stock on
said road (except forty box cars,
which are specially named in their
report) was covered by and included in
the first mortgage upon the said railroad, and in the nwrgage upon the said
railroadexecuted to Bronson and Soutter, bearing date on the 17th day of
August, A.D. 1857.
"Whereas, the masters ought to
have certified that all the rolling
stock on said road (except that purchased by the receiver since the commencement of this suit, amounting
to the sum of $53,600) was covered
by and included in the mortgage given
to the said complainants, and described in the bill of ccmplaint in
this cause; and that said mortgage
was a first and prior lien on said rolling stock, superior to all other liens;

EASTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

"For that the masters have certified that of the rolling stock forty
box cars, amounting, at the cost price
thereof, to $31,999.64, and numbered
330, 332, &c., &c., are covered by and
included in the mortgage to Bronson,
Soutter, and Knapp, and no other;
whereas, the said masters should have
certified that the said rolling stock was
covered by and included in the moriqage
of the complainantsin this action."

Dec. 1664.]

MINWBSOTA

00. V. ST. PAUL CO.

Statement of the case.
and that, as to the rolling stock purchased by said receiver above mentioned, 105-200ths thereof was covered by the mortgage described in
the complaint; and that, to that extent, the complainants' said mortgage was a first lien thereon."

The court, having heard the parties, made the following
ORDERS ON THE EXCEPTIONS.
WESTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

"Ordered, that the fourth exception
of complainants be overruled, except
as to the forty box cars which are covered by this mortgage.
"And further ordered, that on said
exception the said report be so modified that all the other stock that was on
said road when the receiver was appointed, except the said forty box cars,
is covered by andincluded in the First
Mortgage of the road from Milwaukie
to Portage City; and that all the rolling stock on said road that has been
purchased or procured since the court
has held possession by its receiver,
costing $147,943.62, be applied to the
saidfirst mortgage and the mortgagein
this bill, in proportion to the net revenues on such portions of the road
said mortgages respectively covered,
since the appointment of the receiver."

EASTERN DIVISION OAUSE.

"Ordered, that the report of the
masters, allowing forty box cars to
be covered by the Land Grant mortgage of said company to Bronson,
Soutter, and Knapp, be confirmed.
"And that the said report be so
modified that all the other rolling
stock that was on said road when the
receiver was appointed, except the
said forty box cars, is covered by and
included in the first mortgage of the
said company from Milwaukle to
Portage City.
"And that all the rolling stock on
said road that has been purchased or
procured since the court has had possession by its receiver, be applied pro
rata, in proportion to the revenues
of the road, to the first said mortgage
and the said Land Grant mortgage."

In January, 1862, final decrees of foreclosure and sale
were made in both causes, as well the one relating to the
Eastern Division, as the other relating to the Western.
In the -Western Division, the decree says:
"The description of the property authorized to be sold under
and by virtue of this decree, so far as the same can be ascertained from the mortgage above referred to, or from the bill of
complaint in this cause, is as follows, viz. :" (Here follows the

MINNESOTA

CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

description of premises quoted from the mortgage.) "With forty
box cars, numbered 330, &c. (the numbers being all set out), and
such portion or share of rolling stock purchased and procured
by the receiver, costing one hundred and forty-seven thousand
nine hundred and forty-two dollars and sixty-three cents, as the
iet revenues of the portion of road covered by this mortgage
bears to the balance or other end of the road since the appointment of the receiver. Ae3 The remaining rolling stock is subject
to prior mortgages."-a
In the Eastern Division cause, the Bronson and Soutter
mortgage, the decree quoted the description of the premises
from that mortgage, as given before, but added no direction
to sell any rolling stock.
After the decree in the Western Division cause, the marshal advertised that division, and also all the rolling stock
on the whole road; the forty box cars, and the proportion
of rolling stock purchased by the receiver, mentioned in the
decree, to be sold absolutely; and the remaining rolling stock
"subject to prior mortgages." The sale took place as advertised,-two persons, Pratt and White, citizens of Wisconsin,
becoming the nominal purchasers. The sale as made, that
is to say, with the remaining rolling stock sold, "subject to
prior mortgages," was reported to the District Court, and
confirmed by that court as reported. Nothing, however,
in the record showed specifically, that the attention of the
court was called to the fact that the marshal had attempted
to sell the whole rolling stock. After the confirmation of
this sale, Pratt and White organized-as under the laws of
Wisconsin it was lawful for them to do-the MIilwaulde and
St. Paul Railway Company; sometimes for brevity called
the St. Paul Company, simply; and this company applied
by petition to the District Court, in the Land Grant case,
showing the purchase by Pratt and White at the foreclosure
sale, the organization by them of said company, and asserting that this company had acquired the right to work the
K This sentence in italics and between the indices-or the exact form
of it-was tht cause of one main difficulty in the case.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

Statement of the case.

Eastern Division as well as the Western, and to exercise all
the franchises of the debtor company, "in running, operating, and controlling said railroad in its entire length, from
the city of Milwaukie to the city of La Crosse, and that
such right so to run, operate, manage, and control the same,
is prior and superior to the rights of any of the defendants
in this cause, and prior and superior to the rights of the
mortgagees in the mortgage to said Bronson and Soutter, on
the Eastern Division, under which said Crocker is acting as
receiver, inasmuch as the said mortgage to the said complainants is prior in date and lien to the mortgage to said
Bronson and Soutter."
Upon this petition the court, May 7th, 1863, made an
order, directing the receiver to deliver to the St. Paul Railway Company, the Western Division of said railroad and
appurtenances between Portage City and La Crosse, "and
the rolling stock and property specially described in the decree;"
and ordered that the receiver take perfect inventory of all
rolling stock other than the forty box cars specially mentioned
in the decree, and of all personal property belonging to the
debtor company, and report the same to the court.
On the 12th of June, 1863, the court made orders in the
two causes, as follows,-the reasons for them being stated
by the judge who made them, to be a duty which the court
owed alike "to the public and the parties, to secure the use
of a continuous route without interruptionor deviation of trad
or travel between the termini," Milwaukie and La (rosse.
WESTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

" On consideration of the petition
of the MIilwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company, it is ordered by the
Pourt that there be delivered over to
the said company, all and singular
the railroad between the city of La
Crosse and Portage City, its roadbed and track, with its depots, station
houses, engine houses, and all other
prnperty belonging -1 said railroad

EASTERN DIVISION CAUSE.

After reciting the petition of the
St. Paul Co., &c. &c.,
"Ordered by the court, that the
order appointing a receiver in this
case be modified in the manner following, subject to any furthm, or other
order rescinding, altering,or nodifying
this order now here made: That the
receiver let the said Milwaukie and
.St. Paul Railway Company into the

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
between the said points; and the
forty box cars mentioned and described in the decree.
"And also the share or proportion
of the rolling stock and personal
property purchased by the receiver,
as mentioned in the decree.
"IAnd also, subject to other or previous liens or claims, the possession of
the rolling stock on hand when the
receiver took the same under the order of the court.
"And it is further ordered by the
court, that the said receiver be and
hereby is discharged as such from
the management and control of the
said Western Division of said railroad under the appointment in this
case, subject, however, to the final
settlement of his accounts, and subject
to the orders made or to be made in
this case, and in the other cases in
which he was appointed or may hereafter be appointed."

possession of the Eastern Division of
the La Crosse and Milwaukic Railroad from Portage City to Milwaukie, with the appurtenances and property and rolling stock thereto belonging. And that the said railway
company, subject to the further order or orders of the said court, operate said Eastern Division of said
railroad in connection with the said
Western Division thereof, so that
one continuous line of railroad between La Crosse and 3lilwaukie may
be operated and conducted as directed in the original charter of the La
Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Co.,
without hindrance, interruption, or
diversion, the same as if the whole
line of road continued to be in one
company, in pursuance of said charter, and not otherwise."
[The St. Paul Company was ordered to let the receiver see the accounts continually; keep the Eastern
Division and its rolling stock in order; pay over to the receiver, at
stated times, balances, &c., and give
bond to abide orders, &c.]

Under these orders of June 12, 1863, all the rolling stock
of the whole road was delivered to the St. Paul Company,
who, in consequence, took a general control of all things.
The orders in the Eastern Division cause were brought before this court, December, 1863, and declared void, as having
been made after a statute had taken away from the District
Court the powers which in making them it exercised.*
Still, however, the St. Paul Company kept possession; and
a new line of railroad having been made between Milwaukie
and Portage City, by way of Watertown (see diagram at page
610), it was obvious that it might carry business and travel
through from La Crosse to Milwaukie completely well and
yet ruin the Minnesota Company in the process.
Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad. 1 Wallace, 405.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL CO.

621

Statement of the case.

This last-named company now filed a bill on the equity
side of the Federal court for Wisconsin, in which, or in the
predecessor in law of which, the Land Grant mortgage had
been foreclosed against the St. Paul Company,-White and
Pratt the purchasers, and Soutter and Knapp (Bronson being
dead), to have matters rectified, as it conceived, both generally and particularly.
The bill set forth the different mortgages, the foreclosure
of that of Barnes, the Minnesota Company's now ownership, thereunder, of the equity of redemption of all the
road, rolling stock, and franchises of the old La Crosse and
Milwaukie Company, the foreclosure of the Land Grant
mortgage (stating that the Minnesota Company had not answered, though made defendants therein), the marshal's sale
and confirmation of it, as already mentioned. It alleged
that the Land Grant mortgage left unmortgaged over half
a million of dollars in value of this rolling stock, that the
decree of the court did not order it to be sold, and that the
District Court only placed it in possession of the St. Paul
Railway Company, as it did the Eastern Division of the road,
for the purpose of enabling that company to run the road
from Milwaukie to La Crosse as one road. That notwithstanding this, the Milwaukie and St. Paul Company were
building and would soon complete a railway from Milwaukie,
by way of Watertown, to Portage City (see again the diagram
at page 610), independent of and to be used in competition
with the said Eastern Division, now owned by the Minnesota
Company, complainants in the bill; that they gave out that,
by the purchase of Pratt and White, and subsequent organization, they had acquired a right to separate and disconnect
the said railroad from Portage City to La Crosse from the
said Eastern Division from Portage City to Milwaukie, and
on the completion of the road by Watertown would transfer
the rolling stock from the Eastern Division to this southern
connecting line; and by so connecting Milwaukie and La
Crosse and diverting the rolling stock, render the roadbed
3f the Eastern Division wholly useless until restocked, which
could be done only at great expense; all this being in fraud

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAUL Co.

ESup. Ct

Statement of the case.

of the rights of the Minnesota Company and to their great
and irremediable injury.
It stated the character of these two foreclosures, that of
the Land Grant on the Western Division, and of the second
or Bronson and Soutter mortgage on the Eastern Division,
as follows:
"Your orator shows that in the suit to foreclose the mortgage
upon the Western Division, no persons or corporations were
made parties defendant, except those having or claiming to have
an interest in the said Western Division; and that in the suit
commenced to foreclose the mortgage upon the Eastern Division,
no persons or corporations were made parties, except those
having or claiming to have some interest in the said Eastern
Division; and that in neitherof the said suits did the said complainants thereinpray or claim any relief as against the complainants in
the other suit; but the said two foreclosure suits were in all respects, and in every particular, separate and independent suits,
as the respective mortgages, which they respectively were exhibited to foreclose, were separate and distinct mortgages upon
separate and distinct premises.
"Your orator further shows that neither the said mortgage
upon the Western Division, nor the said mortgage upon the Eastern Division, pretended to specify or particularly describe the
amount of rolling stock intended to be thereby conveyed; and
that in neither of the suits commenced to foreclose said respective
mortgages, did the bill of complaint pretend to enumerate or
describe the precise rolling stock, or amount of rolling stock
included or intended to be included in and conveyed by the mortgage which it was exhibited to foreclose, or which belonged
thereto at the time said bill was exhibited. But your orator, as
owner of the equity of redemption of the said Western Division,
and the rolling stock and franchises pertaining thereto, was
made a party defendant to the said bill of complaint, which was
exhibited to foreclose the said mortgage on the Western Division; and your orator in the said Western Division mortgage
foreclosure suit, and as against the complainants in that suit,
was the owner of and entitled to reserve, claim and have all the
railroad rolling stock and franchises which had belonged to said
debtor company, except that which was included in and encumbered by the said Western Division mortgage. And your orw,,r.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAUL Co.

628

Statement of the case.

as the owner of the equity of redemption of the said Eastern
Division, and rolling stock and franchises pertaining thereto.
was made a party defendant to the bill of complaint in the suit
comfmenced to foreclose the said Eastern Division mortgage; and
in that suit, and as against the complainants in that suit, your

orator was the owner of and entitled to claim, reserve and have
all the railroad, rolling stock and franchises, which had belonged
to the said debtor company, except that which was encumbered
by and included in the Eastern Division mortgage."

The bill also charged that no proceedings had ever been
had in the Land Grant cause or otherwise, to ascertain the,
relative proportions. of the net earnings of the Eastern and
Western Divisions, so as to determine what proportion of
the rolling stock purchased by the receiver passed under the
Land Grant sale; that the St. Paul Company, being in possession of the whole road and rolling stock, claimed ownership of all the rolling stock, or nearly all, and were asserting
title and employing their possession, to the great injury of
the Minnesota Company.
It has been already mentioned that Bronson, Soutter, and
Knapp, the mortgagees in the Land Grant mortgage (as in
fact was the case with all the mortgagees), were citizens of
New York; they therefore properly foreclosed their mortgage, in which corporations of Wiscousin were the parties in
interest as defendants, in the Federal court. The present bill,
however, being filed by the Minnesota Company, a corpora,
tion of Wisconsin, against the St. Paul Railway Company,
another corporation of that same State, and against White
and Pratt, citizens of it, as well as against Soutter and Knapp,
survivors, stood on a different ground. As an original bill,
it would plainly have not lain, under the rules which regulate this subject in the Federal courts.
The bill accordingly represented itself as "1supplemental"
to the Land Grant foreclosure bill, and claimed the benefit
of the proceedings in that cause; praying that the Minnesota
Company might be decreed to be the owner of all the rolling
stock on the road at the time of the appointment of the
receiver, except the said forty box cars; that an account

MIN-NESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the appellee.

might be taken to ascertain the relative net earnings of the(
two divisions; and that thereupon, according to the principle of, and basis fixed by said Land Grant decree, it might
be adjudged and definitely determined and declared by this
court what proportion of rolling stock purchased by the
receiver really and equitably belonged to the Minnesota Cornpany and to the St. Paul Company respectively; and that
a separation of said stock purchased by the receiver might
be ordered, or that it should be sold, and the avails paid over
to the respective companies according to their proportions.
It prayed also a proper allowance for rent for the use of
their rolling stock on the Western Division, and that the
avails might be applied to the interest due on the mortgage.
It prayed finally an injunction on the appointment of a receiver, and for other and general relief.
To this bill the St. Paul Company demurred, assigning
for cause, want of jurisdiction, want of equity, &c., the fact
that the bill was not supplemental, and that the parties
were citizens of the same State. The court below having
sustained the demurrer, two questions were now presented
here:
1. Was this bill, in any sense, supplemental or ancillary,
so that it could attach itself to the original proceeding, and
thus, according to the practice of the Federal court, be entertained; though in itself and independently,-from want
of proper and differing citizenship in the parties,-not capable of being thus treated.
2. If it was, did the complainant present any ease calling
fox equitable relief?
MHessrs. Cary and Carlisle,for the appellee.
I. As to the Jurisdiction. The complainant is a corporation
organized under the laws of Wisconsin and situated in that
State. The St. Paul Railway Company, one of the defendants, is in like manner a corporation of that State, and Pratt
and White, and other defendants, are also citizens of Wis
cousin. It is obvious that from want of proper citizenship
.n the parties, the suit cannot be maintained in the Federal

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

625

Argument for the appellee.

court as an original suit. The appellant accordingly relies
on the subject-matter of his bill-its character as a supplemental bill-to bring the case within the jurisdiction. Is
the bill then a supplemental bill. Plainly not, we think. It
does not seek to alter or reverse the original decree; to add
to or vary it. It states a new cause of action. It asserts that
Ile St. Paul Railway Company has been guilty of trespass
or conversion of certain personal property which the complainant owns, and that it sets up a claim to that property
and to the Eastern Division of the La Crosse Railroad, which
pretence and claim the complainant insists is unfounded.
It therefore asks the aid of the court, in effect, first, to declare, settle, and quiet its title to said property; second, to
have a settlement and compensation by way of damages;
and, lastly, that the wrong-doer shall be restrained in future.
Are not the grievances for which remedy is here asked, the
subject of original bill-all of them? The fact that the St.
Paul Railway Company was formed by the purchasers at a
sale under a decree of the United States court, does not
make the company a ward of that court. The company has
no special privileges there, and owes that court no peculiar
allegiance. John Doe, of Wisconsin, might have committed
the same wrongs against the complainant that are alleged
against this defendant. Would it in that case be contended
that he could be punished, or that those wrongs could be
redressed except by an original suit? If by an original suit,
confessedly, on account of the citizenship of the parties, it
could not be in the Federal court. So in this case. If the
St. Paul Company have no title to this rolling stock, as the
complainant alleges, it is liable to an action at law for the
taking.*
The pleader has, indeed, styled his bill a "supplemental"
* Mr. Cary stated as an incidental fact in the controversy, that the complainant had brought an action of trespass on the case for this property in
the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin, which was now pending
there; an action not against the St. Paul Company, because the citizenshil
of the companies would not allow that, but against certain non-resident
directors of that company, who had directed the taking.
VOL. II.

40

M NEso'TA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

one; but styling it supplemental, does not make it so; nor
ie it a "supplemental bill" when tested by any of the definitions which settle the different sorts of equity bills, or when
compared with any precedents in books of equity pleadings.
The court is, of course, familiar with and will apply them.
By settled equity practice, a defendant in an original suit
cannot prosecute a supplemental bill. Such a bill can be
brought only by the complainant, or by those who stand in
his place. Moreover, by equity practice, a supplemental bill
cannot be entertained in any case where the decree in the
original action has been completely executed, which this
decree has been; for the foreclosure suit is ended: Bronson, Soutter and Knapp have performed fully their writ.
There can be no supplemental action to a thing which has
been completely finished. In short, such a use of equity
mechanism as it is here attempted to make, we venture to
assert would never have been thought of by counsel possessed of less resources and devotion to his clients than the
able one-subtle, bold, and strong alike-opposed to us.
Again. The St. Paul Railway Company, and Pratt and
White, are new parties; they have never litigated this question; consequently, as to them, the bill is original, and the
court cannot take jurisdiction. The point we here make
was raised in a very early case in this court.* Certain aliens
had obtained judgment against a citizen of Georgia, and
proceedings had been instituted on the equity side of the
court to reach his property in the hands of several parties,
and a decree entered directing its sale. Subsequently a
supplemental bill was filed against IElizabeth Course to reach
property in her hands. The supplemental bill did not describe her as a citizen of the State of Georgia. In the
Supreme Court it was objected that the court had not jurisdiction as to her for that reason. And in answer to this
objection, counsel, in support of the bill, said, arguendo: "It
is not necessary to describe the parties in the supplemental
nuit, which is merely an incident of the original bill, and
* Course et al. v. Stead et al., 4 Dallas, 22.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

Argument for the appellee.

must be brought in the same court." But the court held
the objection well taken, and reversed the decree. In Cross
v. -De Valle,* the same doctrine was recognized no longer
ago than the last term.
I. As to merits. There are certain facts inferable enough
from the case as stated; facts, not in any way denied by the
bill, and which go far to settle the question. They are
thus:
The La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company was
but one corporation, had but one legal existence, and as one
entity, owned all its property, both real and personal.
Moreover, it was originally chartered to build, and in fact
did build, but one line of road, that from Milwaukie to La
Crosse; and at the time when the receiver took possession,
the road so built was used and worked, and always had
been used and worked, as one "through" and continuous
line of road; all belonging to one company and all belonging in the same right. All of the company's rolling stock
was purchased for and owned by this unit company, and it
was all purchasedfor and used on the entire length of road
without any division or separation. It is not alleged in the
bill-and truth would be violated if it were-that there was
ever any division of the road for any purpose whatever, except that the company, for convenience of raising funds,
made their first mortgage of the east 95 miles, and subsequently mortgaged the west 105.
The general unity and entirety of the road is admitted;
and the fact that a railway company's rolling stock is com-.,
mon to its whole line, and does not belong to a particular
part thereof, is a matter of common observation and knowledge, of which the court will take notice, as the common
rule in all cases of a continuous and unit way.
Now, all the mortgages cover in express terms the rolling
stock of the road. The language in each mortgage is much
the same, literally. In spirit and legal effect it is all the
same, exactly. There can be no doubt that the descriptions
* 1 Wallace, 14; see also, Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Peters. 1.

628

MINI

OTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the appellee.

were copied the one from the other, and that in making the
several mortgages the same identical rolling stock was intended to be conveyed, to wit, the rolling stock of the La
Crosse and Milwaukie Company used on its road.* The
argument of the other side must assume, of necessity, that
the rolling stock of this one great company-this integer
divided and subdivided; clamped
and unit route -was
down and affixed to meted and bounded parts; to parts,
rather, fractured and severed from a proper whole. How
can this assumption be truly made in the case of a great
"through route," worked rapidly, night and day, with
"Lightning" and "Express" as with other trains,-where
speed and "no change of cars" is an object of first importance? How can you-in the case of a road two hundred
miles in length, a road which is one of the great roads of
the Continent, one on which rolling stock must, of course,
be used in values of hundreds of thousands of dollars-assert that but forty box cars belong to its Western and largest
division, while all the rest are attached as a fixture fastened
down immovably to its Eastern? Can counsel tell us how
these forty box cars, without a single locomotive, are propelled? Or in what way, with no rolling stock but the forty
box cars themselves, the mighty traffic of this road, giving,
as a former case exhibits, $800,000 of receipts,t is carried
on with expedition and success? Certainly, we are to observe the language of the mortgage deeds; but we are not
to strangle all justice and sense in the meshes of a technicality as unmeaning as verbose.
We, therefore, insist,1st. That each one of these several mortgages covered and
included all the rolling stock belonging to the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Company, and which had been procured for or
* Mr. Cary stated, as a fact in the case, and one which, he observed, was
inferable enough from the language of the Land Grant mortgage itself,
that at the time it was executed no part of the line of road described in it
was built. 'The rolling stockc mortgaged could, he thus argued, apply to no
stock nut that in use on the Eastern Division
+ See supra, p. 514.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

629

Argument for the appellee.

used on said railroad from Milwaukie to Ta Crosse; and
that there is no sufficient ground to say that it is a fixture
to any specific portion.
2d. That these several mortgages became a lien upon the
said rolling stock from the date of their execution, and that
said liens have priority now in the order of time of their
execution.
3d. That the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company,
after giving these mortgages, cannot dispute the right of any
one of the mortgagees to all of this rolling stock; and as the
mortgage to Barnes is made subject to the other mortgages,
the Minnesota Company stands in no better position than
would the La Crosse Company; and is, therefore, estopped
to dispute our title.
We, therefore, infer, and, inferring, insist that the question before the court below was one-not of the extent of
the Land Grant mortgage-but one of the priority of liens.
Viewed as we thus view the matter, the expression of the
decree of sale, which in the statement of the case (p. 618) is
signalized by index hands, and which has been the subject
of different constructions,-" the remaining rolling stock is subject to prior liens," -becomes both clear and reasonable.
The history of the case, then, stands thus: The court below
made its decree of foreclosure and sale in the Land G-rant
case, and directed a sale of all the rolling stock on the road,
as described in that mortgage. After giving the description
as contained in that mortgage, and especially describing
this portion, which, by the reference to masters, the Land
Grant had been found to be a first lien upon, it followed
this with the adjudication that "the remaining rolling stock is
subject to prior mortgages." It made, in other words, a decree
to sell all the rolling stock specially described, fiee from
incumbrance; for the court had decreed that, as to that,
our mortgage was a first lien, and all the remainder of the
rolling stock subject to incumbrances prior in date. Thus
understanding it the marshal proceeded. His advertisement
of sale so expressly stated it. The sale was so made, ar d
reported to the District Court, setting forth that the portion

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

of rolling stock specially named was sold free from all incumbrance, and all the remainder subject to the lien of prior
mortgages. The sale was afterwards, on hearing, confirmed
as made. The deed of the marshal to the purchaser, and
from the purchaser to the St. Paul Railway Company, was
of the property as sold. Can any history be more plain,
more probable or apparently just? We think not; and wo
add that none can be more conclusive. The court must
perfectly have known whether the marshal had rightly understood and rightly executed its decrees of sale; and by
confirming the sale, it declares that he had rightly done
both; rightly understood as well as rightly executed them.
But even if the court-in originally making the order of
sale, and at the time when it made them-did not mean that
this other rolling stock should be sold, "subject to prior
mortgages," but meant, on the contrary, that it should be
excluded from sale altogether as being the subject of other
mortgage ownerships-admitting this for argument's sake,
the only way in which we admit it at all-what is the effect,
in law, of the marshal's action, subsequent to the orders,
upon the property, his return of that action to the court,
and the court's confirmation of it? The case thus supposed
is this: The court gives the marshal an ambiguous order;
an order capable of two interpretations. The marshal reads
it in one way, one natural enough; and proceeds, on this
interpretation, to execute it. He reports to the court exactly
how he has executed it; and the court, in form, confirms his
act. We say nothing about the immense weight which this
act of the court, in confirming the order as the marshal interpreted and executed it, has in showing what the court
meant originally. That point, for argument's sake, we have
here abandoned. We are here arguing as to the effect of an
interpretation subsequent to and confessedly different from the
original. Why may not such a train of thought as this have
passed perfectly well through the court's mind? "The marshal, it seems, has misunderstood us. But we did not express
ourselves well. His mistake was natural. Our language may
mean either of two things,-what the marshal assumed us to

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

Co.

V.

ST.

PAUL

Co.

68

Opinion of the court.

mean, as well as or better than anything else. Moreover,
on reftection, we see that for the true interests of all parties,
and for the public interests also, it is best that we should
have meant this. We will ratify the marshal's interpreta,
tion, and so affix the meaning which others have taken as
the most natural, and which we ourselves now think would
have been the best, had we expressed it." What is there
unjudicial, or in any way irregular, in a mental process
such as this? What the court did mean was in its own
breast; in petto wholly. No record is violated; nor anything
done but simply interpret an obscure sentence. And if
such a process was had, is there not an end of the question?
That the operation was had, seems proved by what the court
finally did; by the fact, to wit, that in the orders of June
12th, 1863, it did deliver the whole rolling stock to the St.
Paul Company, "subject," in effect, only to "priox mortgages;" precisely, in fact, as if it had originally meant, that
it should thus be sold. Such is our case.
Under this order, subsequently so made, the St. Paul Railway Company took possession of the Western Division, of
the forty box cars, of their proportion of the rolling stock
purchased by the receiver, and also of all the rolling stock
on the road when the receiver took possession of the same
as purchaser. That said division, the forty box cars and the
proportion so purchased by the receiver, they took fr-ee and
clear from all incumbrances. As to the residue of the rolling stock, they took it, they admit, subject to mortgages
previously given by the La Crosse and Milwaukie Company;
the "prior mortgages" of the decree of sale. They have
ever since so held and do now hold it, as they suppose; and
they submit that the appellant is not at liberty to question
their title so here asserted.
Mr. Carpenter,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question raised by the demurrer relates to juris
diction.

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

For the purposes of this question we are to take the facts
set up by the bill [his Honor had stated the main ones] and
demurred to, as true, and consider whether they make a
case for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the District
of Wisconsin, which has become successor of the District
Court in that district.
The present suit grows immediately out of and is a necessity which arises from the suit, by Bronson, Soutter, and
Knapp, to foreclose the Land Grant mortgage; under the
decree in which suit the Western Division of the La Crosse
and Milwaukie Road was sold, and also all the rolling stock
of the company belonging to both divisions, to the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company. The present suit
is really a continuation of that one. The rights of the parties depend upon the construction which is placed upon the
acts of the court in it; and the present bill is necessary in
order to have a declaration of what was intended by the
orders and decrees made in that suit, and to enforce th,
rights which were established by it.
The road and rolling stock, which are the subject-matter
of this controversy, were placed in the hands of a receiver
in the progress of that suit; and he was in possession of the
rolling stock when, by an order of the District Court, made
June 12, 1863, in that suit, and a similar order of the same
date, in another suit, it was all delivered to the Milwaukie
and St. Paul Railway Company.
At the last term of this court,* we decided that, by the
act creating the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin,
the District Court lost its power to make such orders, and
that they were void. The consequence of this ruling is, that
in contemplation of law, this property is still in the hands
of the receiver of the court. If in the hands of the receiver
of the Circuit Court, nothing can be plainer than that any
litigation for its possession must take place in that court,
without regard to the citizenship of the parties.t If it has
been taken illegally from the custody of the receiver, it is
Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad Company, 1 Wallace, 405.
t Freeman v. Howe, 24 Howard, 460.

Dec. 1864.]

MINTESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.
Opinion of the court.

eqr ally clear that the court has not lost thereby the jurisdiction over the property, or the right to determine where it
shall go; so far as that right is involved in that suit. This
is the very object of this bill, and it is rendered all the more
necessary by that which the court has done, as well as that
which it has failed to do. In the case of Bandallv. Howard,*
these principles are fully stated as applicable to a proceeding
in a State court, and are given as reasons why the Federal
court would not interfere; although the parties had the right,
so far as citizenship could give it, to litigate in the courts of
the United States.
It is objected that the present bill is called a supplemental
bill, and is brought by a defendant in the original suit, which
is said to be a violation of the rules of equity pleading; and
that the subject-matter, and the new parties made by the
bill, are not such as can properly be brought before the court
by that class of bills.
But we think that the question is not whether the proceeding is supplemental and ancillary or is independent and
original, in the sense of the rules of equity pleading; but
whether it is supplemental and ancillary or is to be considered entirely new and original, in the sense which this
court has sanctioned with reference to the line which divides
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts from that of the State
courts. No one, for instance, would hesitate to say that,
according to the English chancery practice, a bill to enjoin
a judgment at law, is an original bill in the chancery sense
of the word. Yet this court has decided many times, that
when a bill is filed in the Circuit Court, to enjoin a judgment
of that court, it is not to be considered as an original bill,
but as a continuation of the proceeding at law; so much so,
that the court will proceed in the injunction suit without
actual service of subpcena on the defendant, and though he
be a citizen of another State, if he were a party to the judgment at law. The case before us is analogous. An unjust
advantage has been obtained by one party over another by
* 2 Black, 585

634

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

LSui. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a perversion and abuse of the orders of the court, and the
party injured comes now to the same court to have this
abuse corrected, and to carry into effect the real ilitention
and decree of the court, and that while the property which
is the subject of contest is still within the control of the
court and subject to its order.
It is objected that Pratt and White and the Milwaukie
and St. Paul Railway Company were not parties to that
suit, and cannot therefore be compelled to yield their right
to litigate with a citizen of Wisconsin in the courts of that
State.
Pratt and White are mere nominal parties, who were the
agents and attorneys of the corporators composing the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company, and purchased the
property at the marshal's sale for them. They and the company may both be considered as purchasers at that sale; and
it is in their character of purchasers, and on account of the
possession which they obtained on petition of the company,
and the rights they claim under that purchase, that they are
now brought before the court. If the court has jurisdiction
of the matters growing out of that sale, and order of possession, as we have already shown that it has, then it has j urisdiction to that extent of these parties without regard to their
citizenship. It would, indeed, be very strange if these parties
can come into court by a petition, and get possession of that
which was the subject of litigation, and then when the wrong
they have done by that proceeding is to be corrected, they
shall be permitted to escape by denying that they were parties to the suit. In the case of Blossom v. The Milwau/ie and
Chicago Railroad Company,* this matter was fully discussed,
and it was there held, that a purchaser or bidder at a master's
sale, subjected himself quoad hoc to the jurisdiction of the
court, and became so far a party to the suit by the mere act
of making a bid, that he could appeal from any subsequent
order of the court affecting his interest.t
* 1 Wallace, 636.

f De la Flaine v. Lawrence, 10 Paige, 602; Calvert on Parties to Suits i
Equity, pages 51, 58, and note to page 61.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL

Co.

635

Opinion of the court.'

The objection to the jurisdiction must therefore be

OVER.

aULED.

We next proceed to inquire whether the bill makes a case
calling for relief.
This involves the consideration of the mortgage of complainants in the original suit, and of several orders and decrees of the District Court, all of which are the subject of
conflicting constructions by the parties and their counsel.
In reference to the roadbed which is covered by these
various mortgages, there is no diversity of opinion; but in
reference to the rolling stock, it is contended by appellees
that these several mortgages were successive liens on all the
rolling stock of the company, and by appellant that they are
liens only on the rolling stock belonging to, or in some way
identified with, that part of the road included in each mortgage respectively. At first blush it would seem that in a
road used continuously as one road, there could be no such
definite relation between any particular division of the road
and any particular portion of the stock. But as it was competent for the company which owned all the road and all the
stock to assign certain stock to one division, and certain
other stock to the other division, when the roads were
divided for the purpose of making mortgages, we cannot
assume as a fact that there was no such allotment of the
rolling stock; but must look to the language of the mortgages themselves, to see if any such intention is expressed.
If it is not, then obviously the other view prevails, and the
mortgages are successive liens on the whole stock
The language in the descriptive part of the Palmer mortgage, and that in the corresponding part of the mortgage on
the Western Division, when considered in reference to the
rolling stock alone, may not be free from doubt as to its construction.* But when we consider it in reference to the clear
purpose of the parties to make the mortgages distinct, and
different as to everything else conveyed by them, we con* See them con-columned, at page 611; the former in the right column,
ffhe latter in the left.-REP.

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

elude that it was intended that the rolling stock covered by
each mortgage was that which was properly appurtenant to
each particular division of the road.
It is nbt so important that we be right in this, however, as
we are satisfied that the District Court in the foreclosure suit
decided this question; and as that decision is in full force
and unreversed, it must conclude the parties to the present
suit, all of whom claim under the decree of the court.
The complainants in the original foreclosure suit made
defendants of all the judgment creditors of the company who
had liens subsequent to themselves, and made the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Company defendant, who held under the
subsequent mortgage to Barnes, with a view to cut off their
equity of redemption; but they did not make defendants
of Bronson and Soutter, who held a subsequent mortgage
on the Eastern Division, and a subsequent lien on the rolling stock, which complainants would also desire to extinguish, if they had believed it covered the same rolling
stock which theirs did. By omitting these mortgagees
they show their own construction that their mortgage, and
that of Bronson and Soutter, did not cover the same stock;
which could only be because it was appurtenant to the
Eastern Division.
About the time that foreclosure suit was commenced, a
suit was instituted in the same court to foreclose the second
or Bronson and Soutter mortgage on the Eastern Division;
but the holders of the Palmer mortgage were not made defendants to either suit. The two suits progressed paripassu
to a final decree; but while the Western Division went to
sale, an appeal stayed proceedings in the Eastern Division
case, and no sale has yet been made under that decree.
Very shortly after these suits were commenced, the court
made an order of reference in each of them to masters in
chancery, who were the same masters in both cases. These
references were for the purpose of ascertaining the amounte
due on the bonds, the amounts due certain judgment creditors, and the amount of rolling stock on the whole road, and
the amount included in each mortgage. The language of

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAu1

Co.

637

Opinion of the court.

the order of reference on this latter point in the original suit
in this case is as follows:
"And it is further ordered that said masters ascertain and
report the whole amount of rolling stock on the road, and that
they specify the quantity thereof that is covered by this mortgage, also in the first and second mortgages respectively."
The reference in the other case is in language almost
identical.
Now it is argued that the object of this order was to ascertain and settle the priorities between these different mortgages. No such inference can be made from its language,
for it says nothing about priorities in date, or superiority of
lien. There was no occasion or reason for ascertaining those
priorities in that suit, for the respective parties were not
before the court, and could not be bound by its decree. It
would not even bind complainants, because there would be
no mutuality in the estoppel. It is an impeachment of the
legal attainments of the court and of the counsel to suppose
that they would make a reference to a mast'er to ascertain a
fact which could have no influence on the suit, and if passed
upon by the court, could affect nobody's interest in the
slightest degree.
But the language of the order clearly implies a different
thing. The object is to ascertain, what is covered by one
mortgage to the exclusion of the other; an object which had
manifest pertinency to the duty which the court was called
upon to discharge. The judge who made these orders delivered an opinion at the trial, in which he decides that the
rolling stock of a railroad is a fixture; and if we suppose
him to have considered that which was mortgaged to Palmer
and to Bronson and Soutter as a fixture on the Eastern Division, and that which was mortgaged to Bronson, Soutter,
and Knapp, as a fixture on the Western Division, we have'a
clear idea of what he wished to ascertain, in view of the
decrees he was to make in the two suits.
We have next the report of the masters on this subject,
which is aE follows:

MINNSOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

"We have also ascertained the whole amount of rolling stock
on the whole road at the cost price. The amount thereof was,
at the date of the filing of the bill of complaint in this cause.
$569,635.78, and an additional amount of $53,600 has been purchased since the filing of the bill of complaint, making the whole
amount $623,235.78.
"And we have ascertained, and do further report, that of the
said rolling stock, forty box cars, amounting, at the cost price
thereof, to thirty-one thousand nine hundred and seventy-nine
dollars and sixty-four cents, and numbered 330, &c. [giving the
numbers], are covered by and included in the mortgage executed
to the complainants as set forth in the bill of complaint in this
cause, the said cars having been purchased, and by the proceeds
of a portion of the bonds to which this mortgage is collateral;
and all the remainder of the said rolling stock is covered by and
included in the first mortgage upon the said railroad, and in the
mortgage upon the said railroad executed to G. C. Bronson and
J. T. Soutter, and bearing date on the seventeenth day of
August, A.D. 1857."
In the foreclosure suit of the Eastern Division, these same
masters reported on the same day:
"We have ascertained and do further report, that of said rolling stock, forty box cars, amounting, at cost price thereof, to
$31,979.64, and numbered 330, &c., are covered by and included
in the mortgage of Bronson, Soatter, and Knapp, and no
other;"
and ihen adds, that the remaining rolling stock is covered
by the mortgage to Palmer, and to Bronson and Soutter;
that is, the mortgage on the Eastern Division.
It is impossible in examining these reports to doubt that
the commissioners understood that they were directed to
ascertain what rolling stock was covered by each mortgage,
in order that only such might be sold under the decree in
that case, and that they reported that of all the rolling stock
on tne road, forty box cars alone were subject to the mortgage in the present case, and that all the other stock was
subject to the mortgage in the other suit. At all events,

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA GO. V. ST. PAUL

Co.

63

Opinion of the court.

they were directed to ascertain what was subject to the
mortgage in this suft, and they reported the forty box cars,
and did not report any more. This much is beyond dispute
from the language of the report ir this case.
Counsel for" complainant excepted to this report. His
fourth exception is that instead of cerating- a&they did, the
masters should have reported,
"1That all the rolling stock on said road was covered by and
included in the mortgage given, to said complainants, and described in their bill of complaint in this cause, and that said
mortgage was a first and prior lien on said rolling stock superior
to all other liens."
This exception was overruled by the court, and the report
of the masters confirmed so far as this branch of the subject
is concerned.
We regard this as a judicial decision, that complainant's
mortgage did not cover the roIling stock which was covered
by the previous mortgage to Palmer, and that it only covered
the forty box cars, and such proportion of the rolling stock
purchased by the receiver as the net earnings of the Western Division bears to the net earnings of the Eastern Division. This order modifying and confirming the report of
the masters settled the rights of the parties, and by that decision, they must stand until it is reversed on appeal, or set
aside by some direct proceeding for that purpose.
The final decree ordering the sale proceeds upon the same
view of the rights of the parties. After ordering a sale of
the property mortgaged, and copying the language given in
the mortgage as descriptive of what was mortgaged, the
decree adds:
"With forty box cars, &c., and such portion or share of the
rolling stock purchased and procured by the receiver, costing
$147,942.63, as the net revenues of the portion of the road
covered by this mortgage bears to the balance or other end of
the road, since the appointment of the receiver. The remaining
rolling stock is subject to a prior mortgage."

MINNESOTA Co. V. ST. PAUL Co.

ESup.

Cr.

Opinion of the court.

That is to say, having decided that what is covered by the
other two mortgages is not covered by this; it is not subject
to sale in this suit.
The marshal, however, who was directed to make the sale
instead of a master commissioner, did sell all the rolling
stock, and that sale was confirmed by the order of the District Court of May 5, 1863.
It is too clear for argument, that a sale by the marshaI,
unauthorized by the decree, is without any validity. Does
the order of the court confirming the sale make it valid?
Upon principle the question is by no means free from
difficulty. We are clear that a sale without a decree to sus.
tain it would be a nullity, and we doubt if a court can make.
it valid by a mere general order of confirmation. If,
however, an issue had been made by exceptions or other proper
pleading, as to the question whether any particular piece of
property had been included in the decree, or order of sale, and
the court had decided that it was so included, it might be
an adjudication upon the construction of the decree which
would bind the parties. Nothing of the kind occurred here.
There is every reason, on the contrary, to believe, that the
court had no suspicion that the marshal had sold more than
the decree authorized.
On the 7th day of May, two days after the order of confirmation, the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company,
presented their petition for the discharge of the receiver,
and for possession of the property which they had purchased.
The court thereupon made an order "that the receiver deliver over to said Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company,
the said road and appurtenances between Portage City and
La Crosse, and the rolling stock and property specially described
in the decree." The only rolling stock specially described in
the decree was the forty box cars, and the proportion of
stock purchased by the receiver. The fact that this was
ordered to be delivered to the purchasers and no more, is
almost conclusive of two things: first, that the judge understood his decree and previous rulings as we have interpreted
them: and, second, that he had no idea that he had con-

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

641

Opinion of the court.

firmed a sale of all the rolling stock on the road, to the purchasers at the sale. It is true that over a month later, he
ordered the Eastern Division of the road and the remainder
of the rolling stock into the possession of the same company.
But this was done to enable them to run the whole road as
a through route, on the principle of public policy, and that
it was better for all parties concerned. This he declared in
an opinion delivered at the time, and it is substantially indicated in the orders themselves.
In the light of these facts, we cannot give to the order of
confirmation in this case the efect of making valid the
marshal's sale, however the rule might be on that subject in
other cases. But we do not mean to intimate that in any
case a sale by a marshal, or master in chancery, can be valid,
when there is no decree to support it. Oases in this court*
would seem to decide that it cannot.
The order of June 12, 1868, delivering possession of this
property to the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company,
has been declared by this court to be void for want of jurisdiction, and has been set aside by the court which made it.
It therefore affords no support to defendants in this claim to
the rolling stock in dispute.
We have thus examined with care and patience the mortgage, and the various orders and decrees of the District
Court, on which the claim of the Milwaukde and St. Paul
Railway Company to the ownership of this property depends.
There is in all of them some want of clearness and precision,
including the mortgage itself. Before the court ordered the
sale, it should have made clear all these ambiguities. It
evidently attempted to do so, and we think if it has not in
all cases effected that purpose fully, it has furnished the
criteria by which it can be done. And although the language of its orders is not always free from doubt, we have
been able to satisfy ourselves of the court's intentions.
The title of appellant is clear on the record, unless it has
* Shriver v. Lynn, 2 Howard, 43; Brignardello v. Gray, 1 Wallace, 627.
VOL. II.

41

642

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ot

Nelson, Clifford, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

been divested by these proceedings. We think that they do
not confer title to the rolling stock on the Milwaukie and
St. Paul Railway Company, nor divest the appellant, except
as to the forty box cars, and the proportion of the stock
purchased by the receiver, which the net earnings of the
Western Division bore to the net earnings of the Eastern
Division, and that they also decide that the mortgage under
which they claim, did not include any more.
ORDER OF THE CIRCUIT COURT sustaining the demurrer to
complainants' bill, and the decree of the court dismissing it,
REVERSED, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Mr. Justice NELSON, in whose opinion concurred CLIFFORD and FIELD, JJ., dissenting.
The complainants in this bill, who set up a right to the
equity of redemption in the Bronson and Soutter mortgage,
insist that the whole of the rolling stock on the old La
Crosse and Milwaukie Road, with a trifling exception, is
subject to the lien of this mortgage on the Eastern Division,
the foreclosure of which is pending; and that a proper allowance of rent for the use of it on the Western Division
should be made, and the avails applied to the interest due
on the mortgage; and further, that the question involved
was litigated and so decided in the foreclosure suit on the
mortgage of the Western Division.
We have looked into the position of the counsel for the
complainants, and have come to the conclusion that it is not
maintained.
For aught that appears, all the rolling stock of zhe old
company was purchased by it for the use and benefit of the
whole of the road, out of the common funds of the company,
and a lien was given upon it in each and all of the mortgages of that company on the two divisions, the Eastern and
Western, and also upon it in the mortgage of the whole
road to the complainants. These liens would take effect as
matters of law according to priority. Any other disposition

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

643

Nelson, Clifford, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

of them would be unjust and in violation of good faith to the
bondholders, for the security of the payment of whose bonds
the mortgages were given.
The District Court, however, .seems to have entertained
the idea, that any of the rolling stock purchased by the proceeds of the bonds of a particular mortgage should be ex(lusively subject to the lien of that mortgage, and made a
reference for this purpose; and on the coming in of the
report, acting upon this idea, decided that some forty box
cars purchased by the proceeds of the bonds of the first
mortgage on the Western Division, should be -sold and the
proceeds applied exclusively to this mortgage, and that all
the rest of the rolling stock on the road (meaning the whole
road), when the receiver was appointed, was covered by the
first mortgage of the road from Milwaukie to Portage
(meaning the Palmer mortgage), and all purchased since the
appointment of the receiver be applied to this first mortgage, and the mortgage in the bill of foreclosure, in the
proportion therein mentioned.
The decree of foreclosure, after describing the propertyto
be sold, and particularly the forty box cars and the share of
the stock purchased since the appointment of the receiver,
adds, "The remaining rolling stock is subject to prior mortgages."
In the report of the sale by the marshal, he states, that he
sold of the rolling stock the forty box cars, and the share of
the stock purchased since the receiver was appointed, free
and clear of all incumbrances; but the remainder of the
rolling stock was sold, subject to the lien of mortgages prior
in date to the mortgage under which the sale was made.
This report of the sale by the marshal was excepted to, but
after argument the exceptions were overruled, and the sale
confirmed, and although the complainants here were party
defendants in that suit of foreclosure, no appeal was taken
from the decree of confirmation.*
We are of opinion, therefore, that the question as to the
* Blossom v. Milwaukie, &c., R. R. Co.. 3 Wallace, 655-7.

INNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. CL

Nelson, Clifford, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

ownership or the liens upon the rolling stock in question
were not adjudicated by the court below in the foreclosure
suit on the mortgage upon the Western Division, and that
the question is open for this court to determine.
We agree that the rolling stock upon this road covered by
the several mortgages, and as respects any other valid liens
upon the same, is inseparably connected with the road; in
other words, is in technical language a fixture to the road,
so far as in its nature and use it can be called a fixture. But
it is a fixture extending over the entire track of the road
from Milwaukie to La Crosse. It is not a fixture upon any
particular division or portion; but attaches to every part
and portion. It was purchased, as we have before said, for
aught that appears, by the common funds of the old La
Crosse and Milwaukie Company, and which were derived
from its various resources,-subscriptions of stock, sale of
bonds secured by mortgages, earnings of the road after a
part or the whole line was fitted for the running of the cars;
and the mortgages or other incumbrances on the road made
by the old company, whether on a portion or on the whole
line, take effect according to the priority of lien. 'These
liens, so far as respects the rolling or moving stock, attach
to them a right to have the cars run upon the road, upon its
entire line, as the value of the lien depends upon this use of
the property. The lien was acquired in contemplation of
this use, for without it a mortgagee or lienholder of the commonest observation must have seen the security would be
next to worthless. The great value of the road and rolling
stock, as a security, consists in the use and operation of the
same as a railroad line in the carriage of passengers and
freight; it is the combined use maintained and enforced that
enables the lien creditor to realize the security contemplated
when the credit was given.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the mortgagees of the
Eastern line have by virtue of the liens of their mortgages
such an interest in the rolling stock, as to entitle them to
the appropriate use of it in running the road for the carriage
nf passengers and freight; and that the Milwaukie and St

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL

Co.

Note.

Paul Company, by reason of their title under the mortgage
foreclosed on the Western Division, acquired the same right;
and also, that the complainants by virtue of their title under
the mortgage foreclosed, acquired a similar right, and that
neither has acquired an exclusive right or title to any portion of the rolling stock. We say nothing as to the persons
or parties who may be entitled to liens on their property, as
these questions are not before us; nor the evidence that
would enable us to determine the same, nor could they be
determined under this bill. Our conclusion is that the decree below should be affirmed.

NOTE BY THE REPORTER.

IT will be seen in the foregoing report that one of the questions decided in the inferior court was, that rolling stock is a
fixture. The question was argued in this court with ability on
both sides. But though the decision here is not inconsistent
with that idea, but on the contrary, as the reporter supposes,
rather affirmative of it, the point was apparently one not necessary to be specifically passed upon, and is not discussed in the
opinion. The matter is, however, one of such practical and
increasing importance that the reporter supposes he will gratify
the profession by giving in this collateral way an extract from
the brief of the appellant's counsel, Mr. Carpenter, who endeavored to support the modern view.
Is

ROLLING STOCK A FIXTURE?

The termfixture was early seized upon by legal writers to supply a deficiency in their technical terminology; but was not entirely reclaimed from
its popular use and fixed in that strictness and uniformity of meaning requisite to scientific certainty; and as used by legal writers, it has, continually fluctuated between a technical and a popular use. We have,
therefore, many kinds of fixtures; and many exceptions and qualifications
to each kind. A fixture is one thing between landlord and tenant; a different thing between vendor and vendee; is one thing in the economy of
trade; another for the purposes of agrieulture. Originally, the term denoted
tr.ose movable things which l-ad become immovable by connection with the

646

MINNESOTA CO. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct,

Note.
freehol 3. But presently it came to mean those things, which although
attached to the freehold, could, under certain circumstances, be removed.
In its popular use it meant something affixed or fastened to the freehold;
and in the early cases, and many of the later ones, we find the popular
definition of the term sweeping everything before it. An article was held
to be a fixture or not, from the presence or absence of a screw fastening it to
the floor.
By the great majority of cases, ancient and modern, there is no doubt that
a fastening was essential to constitute the thing in question a part of the
freehold; and nothing kept in place by mere gravitation was held to be a
fixture. It is not less true that from the first we have the doctrine of constructive annexation equally well established. In Liford's Case,* it is said
to have been decided in the fourteenth year of Henry VIII, that a millstone, removed from a mill to be picked, was nevertheless constructively a
part of the freehold, and passed by deed conveying the mill. In England,
title deeds have been held to be fixtures; and deer in a park, and fish in a
pond, to pass with the estate.
The right to remove articles as fixtures has been carried farther in favor
of tenants and to encourage trade than in any other cases; yet this right has
been somewhat limited; and it has been held that where an engine, in no
way attached to the freehold, could not be removed without injury to the
building in which it was set up, that the tenant could not remove it. There
are cases in England of more recent date, still farther tending to put this
subject upon a reasonable, as distinguished from a philological ground;
and to hold that a thing is to be regarded as real or personal property, according to its relation to, and connection in use with, the freehold, rather
than from the manner in which that connection may be accomplished. And
it has been expressly decided that actual fastening is not necessary to make
a thing part of the estate.
In the United States we have three different rules established by different
States.
1. The thing must be so fastened to the estate that its removal would
seriously injure the freehold, beyond the loss of the thing removed.
2. If the chattel is essential to the use of the real estate, and actually,
though slightly attached, it will pass with the freehold3. If the thing be essential to the use of the real estate, and has uniformly
been used with it, then it passes, though not fastened to it.
As an original proposition, the third rule seems the most satisfactory
Take for instance a manufacturing establishment. The building is constructed tc receive the various machines necessary for carding wool, spinning
yarn, weaving and dressing cloth, and this business is carried on in the building. One machine is so light, or its motion so violent, that it must be steadied
by some fastening to the floor; the next is heavy enough to keep in place
by its own weight. Now there is no reason in saying that one machine
will, and the other will not, pass with the freehold. Both are essential ta
* 11 Reports, 50, b.

Dec. 1864.]

MINNESOTA

CO. V. ST. PAUL Co.

647

Note.
the same business, one is useless without the other, and both are in the mind
of the purchaser when he buys the establishment. It seems absurd to say
that, to be sure of getting all the machinery, he must nail it down to the
floor, when perhaps fifty men could not start it a hair. The purpose for
which the thing was constructed, and the manner in which it was enjoyed
in connection with the freehold, should determine whether it is real or personal estate
Following this view, it was held, in Farrarv. Staekpole,* that where machinery was essential to the purposes for which the building in which it was
used was erected, that this fact alone constituted it real estate, whether
it was nailed down or whether only held down by the laws of gravitation.
Other cases t are to the same effect; although a far greater number of
cases could be cited to the contrary, both from England and American
reports.
In Walker v. Sherman,$ actual fastening was held essential; but in a more
recent case, Snedeker e al. v. Warring,4 this distinction is overruled, and
the law of fixtures put upon sensible ground and according to the doctrine
in the above cases. In the latter case, a statue and sun-dial were held part
of the real estate. The court say, IIIf the statue had been actually affixed
to the base, by cement or clamps, or in any other manner, it would be conceded to be a fixture and to belong to the realty. But as it was, it could
have been removed without fracture to the base on which it rested. But is
that circumstance controlling? A building of wood, weighing even less
than this statue, but resting on a substantial foundation of masonry, would
have belonged to the realty. A thing may be as firmly affixed to the land
by gravitation as by clamps or cement. Its character may depend much
upon the object of its erection. Its destination, the intention of the person
making the erection, often exercises a controlling influence; and its connection with the land is looked at principally for the purpose of ascertaining
whether that intent was that the thing in question should retain its original
chattel character, or whether it was designed to make it a permanent accession to the lands."
We come now to give this law of fixtures an application to the present
subject-matter.
Suppose a corporation created by law to build, equip, and work a railroad,
and for no other purpose. It mortgages its roadbed, between certain
limits, all its depots and station buildings, its right of way, and all appurtenances between those limits; and all the franchises, privileges, and rights
of the company of, in and to, or concerning the same. The road is useless
without the rolling stock. Here is a case then falling fully within the principle of earlier cases ;IIthe real estate worthless without the rolling stock,
* 6 Greenleaf, 157.
t Lawton v. Salmon, 1 Henry Blackstone, 259; Fairis v. Walker, 1 Bailey, 5&1
(S. C ;; Voorhis v. Freeman, 2 Watts & Sergeant, 116; Pyle v. Pennock !d. 390:
Goodrich v. Jones, 2 Hill, 142.
20 Wendell, 636.
4 2 Kernan, 170.
Farrar v. Stackpole; Voorhis v. Freeman; and Pyle u. Pennock

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup Ck

Note.
which has bean used only upon the road; and the rolling stock, so essential
to the use of the road, utterly worthless for any other or different use. We
have already seen the senseless fiction of fastening done away with; and we
have but to apply the principles of the cases cited, and we shall come to the
result that the rolling stock is in the nature of a fixture; and as such must
be conveyed by the mortgage conveying the estate. It has not, indeed,
exactly the same connection with the realty that the statue had in Snedelcer
v. Warring;it is not held or kept in one place by fastenings, or by its weight.
But this circumstance is of no consequence if the principle deducible from
the cases above cited is to govern. If a billiard table were fastened to the
floor so as to be conceded a fixture, would not the balls and cues pass also?
A bucket in a well may be detached, and it is movable, running from top
to bottom of the well, yet it is a fixture by common consent. A shuttle in
a loom is thrown from place to place by the motive power of the machinery,
yet it is an essential part of the machine. It is not inconceivable that rails
and cars might be so constructed as that the car should be held upon the
rail by certain material contrivances, and yet be propelled from one station
to another; from one end of the road to another, by steam power. In such
a case none would doubt that the cars were a fixture. Can it be said that
the manner of accommodating and adjusting the cars to the rails can make
any difference? "The railroad, like a complicated machine, consists of a
great number of parts, a combined action of which is essential to produce
revenue. And as well might a creditor claim the right to levy on and abstract some essential part from Woodworth's planing machine, or any other
combination of machinery, as to take from a railroad its locomotive and
passenger cars. Such an obstruction would cause the operations to cease i.
both cases."*
Then, again, following the principle of Snedeker v. Warring, the destination
a company to pass it, will have an influence
of the rollingstock, the intention.f
in determining whether such stock is real or personal property. This consideration would be as conclusive in regard to the furniture of a railroad ait was in regard to the statue, where it was presented; and even more so.
The statue might have been sold by the sculptor for the adorning of
any residence; though in fact it was made for the particular use. The
right to buy and own rolling stock is a franchise, and can only be exercised as an accessory to the operation of a railroad. Any buying or selling
of cars, engines, &c., by the company, for the mere purpose of speculation, would be unauthorized and illegal. Here, then, is a consideration
showing that a company intends the rolling stock to be used only for the
road, or, in other words, to become a permanent accession to the real estate
of the company. The intention of the owner, the use for which the property was designed, the connection between the road and the cars, and the
essential relation between them, for the purposes of revenue, all combine to
declare the rolling stock real estate.
In Piercev. Emery, the Portsmouth and Concord Railroad Ccmpany had
* McLean, J., in Coe v. Pennock et als

f 32 Now Hampshire, 484.

Dec. 1864.]

THE FOSSAT CASE.
Syllabus.

mortgaged all their property, real and personal, and all their franchises.
The court held that the rolling stock acquired subsequently to the execution
of the mortgage belonged to the mortgagee. The court say, "The object
of the act being to give the bondholders a substantial and available security
for their money, and a preference over other creditors not previously
secured, can only be answered by so construing the law authorizing the
mortgage as to give the bondholders security upon the road itself, as the
general subject-matter of the mortgage, and upon the changing and shifting
property of the road as part and parcel, by accession, of the thing mortgaged."
In _Phillips v. Winslow, in Kentucky, it was held that, in equity, the
rolling stock acquired subsequent to the execution of the mortgage, passed
as an accession or fixture.
In Redfield on Railways,* it is said, indeed, that rolling stock is an accessory, though not a fixture. The distinction is, perhaps, one of words. In
the strict technical sense of the word, as used in the old cases, rolling stock
is not a fixture; but within the reason and philosophy of the modern cases
it would seem to be so. If it must not be called a fixture, in deference to the
old cases, it is yet an accessory of that sort, which has every element of one;
and to be regarded accordingly, however named.
The conclusion is, that rolling stock, put and used upon a railroad, passes
with a conveyance of the road, even without mention or specific descripfion.

THE FoSSAT OR QUICKSILVER MINE CASE.
1. An appeal lies to this court from a decree of the District Court for
California, in a proceeding under the act of 14th of June, 1860 (12 Statutes at Large, 83), commonly called the Survey Law.
2. If no appeal from such a decree be taken by the United States, they
may appear in this court as appellees, but cannot demand a reversal or
change of the decree.
8. If a California land claim has been confirmed by a decree of the District
Court under the act of 3d of March, 1851 (9 Statutes at Large, 631), and
the decree of confirmation fixing the boundaries of the tract stands
unreversed, a survey under it is the execution of that decree, and must
conform to it in all respects.
4. The Survey Laiv of 14th of June, 1860, gives the District Court no power
to amend or change the decree of confirmation.
5. When the title-papers designate the beginning-place of a straight line,

ahd fix its course by requiring that it shall pass a known and ascertained point to its termination at a mountain, such line cannot be
varied by the fact that a rough draft (a Mexican diseffo) on which it is
* Page 576, note.

