BROBST V. BROBST.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case

claiming under the deceased or intestate, unless the same be
commenced within five years next after the sale. But we
prefer to affirm the decree for the reasons given, without
passing any opinion on the effect of this statute.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BROBST V. BROBST.
1. Where the Circuit and District Judge agree in parts of a case, and
dispose of them by decree finally, but are unable to agree as to others;
and certify as to them a division of opinion, both parts of the case
may be brought to the Supreme Court at once and heard on the same
record.
2. A party allowed to enter an appeal bond, nunc pro tune, in a case where
the court supposed it probable that his solicitors had been misled by a
peculiar state of the record and mode of bringing up the questions from
the court below.

L this case, in the court below, some questions had been
disposed of finally by the Circuit and District Judges, and
others were suspended by their inability to agree and a
consequent division of opinion. An appeal was taken from
the part covered by the final decree, and a certificate of division upon the residue of the case. No appeal bond had been
entered.
A motion was now made to dismiss the appeal for want of
an appeal bond entered into as required by the act of Congress. It was also objected that no appeal could be taken
from the decision of the court below, until the certificate of
division of opinion in the same cause between the judges
was disposed of in this court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears that an appeal has been taken from that part of
the case covered by the final decree, ahd a certificate of
division upon the residue.
There is no objection to this practice. It has been ruutgnized and acted upon in several instanecs in this court

Dec. 1864.]

DAY v. GALLUP.
Statement of the case.

The questions arising on this appeal, and on the certificate
of division, come up together, and are heard on the same
record.
The omission to file the bond, under the circumstances,
may be corrected by filing one in conformity with the act
of Congress. The peculiar state of the record, and mode
of bringing up the questions from the court below, probably
misled the solicitors.
Let a rule be entered, that the appellant have sixty days
from notice of it, to.file a bond with the clerk of the court,
to be approved by the proper officer, upon complying with
which, this motion be dismissed; otherwise granted.

DAY V. GALLUP.
1. In trespass in a State court against the marshal of the United States for
levying on goods which ought not to have been levied on, the marshal's
title as marshal is not necessarily drawn in question. He may be sued.
not as marshal, but as trespasser. Hence, a judgment in a State court
against a marshal for making a levy alleged to be wrong, is not
necessarily a proper subject for review in this court, under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, allowing such review in certain cases
where "an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in
question, and the decision is against its validity."
2. Where a proceeding in the Federal court is terminated so that no case
is pending there, a State court, unless there be some special cause to
the contrary, may have jurisdiction of a matter arising out of the same
general subject, although, if the proceeding in the Federal court had
not been terminated, the State court might not have had it.

THE 25th section of the Judiciary Act provides that a final
judgment in the highest court of law of a State, in which is
drawn in question the validity of an "authority exercised
under the United States," and the decision is against its validity, may be reviewed in this court. With this act in
force, Gallup sued Derby & Day, Gear, and Allis, in a State
court of Minnesota, in trespass, for taking and carrying away
goods. On the 1st April, 1860, the defendants justified
under certain writs of attachment and execution, issued oul
of the 1I'ederal court for Minnesota, in a certain suit therein
VOL. II

7

