Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

Statement of the case.

with sufficient surety to pay to Sebre Howard and Selab
Chamberlain all such sums as may come into the hands of
said company, which shall hereafter be found to be rightfully applicable to the payment of their claims, if they shall
be established as liens on said road. And the appellants to
recover their costs in this court.
AcOTIOX ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. 'STON2.
1. The United States may properly proceed by bill in equity to have a judicial decree of nullity and an order of cancellation of a patent issued by
itself, ignorantly or in mistake, for lands reserved from sale by law,
and a grant of which by patent was therefore void.
2. The southern boundary of Camp Leavenworth is the line as established
by the surveyor, McCoy, A. D. 1830, for such extent as it was adopted
by the subsequent surveys of Captains Johnson and Hunt, A. D. 1839,
1854, and by the Government of the United States. The Secretary of
the Interior, in 1861, transcended his authority when he ordered surveys to be made north of it.
S. The treaty of 30th May, 1860, between the United States and the Delaware Indians, conferred a right to locate grants only on that portion of
the Delawares' lands reserved for their "permanent home" by the
treaty of 6th May, 1854, and did not authorize their location on that
portion of those lands which, by that treaty, were to be sold for their
uses.

TiE United States, by treaty with the Delaware Indians,
in 1818, agreed to provide for them a country to reside in;
and in 1829, by supplementary treaty, agreed that the country in the fork of the Kansas and Missouri Rivers, extending
"up the Missouri TO Camp Leavenworth," should be conveyed and secured to them as their said home.
A Senate resolution of 29th May, 1830, ratifying this
treaty, provided that the President should employ a surveyor
to run the lines, to establish certain and notorious land.
marks, and to distinguish the boundaries of the granted
country, in the presence of an agent of the Delawares, and to
report to the President his proceedings, with a map; and

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

[Sup. ct

Statement of the case.

that, when the President was satisfied that the proceedings
had been concurred in and approved by the agent of the
Delawares, he should also approve of the same by his signature
and seal of office, and cause a copy to be filed among the archives
of the Government.
In 1827,-more than two years prior to this supplemental
treaty,-Colonel Leavenworth, by orders of the Government,
had selected a site for a "permanent cantonment" on the
same bank of the Missouri; which site has always since been
in the occupancy of the United States as a military post,
and is the " Camp Leavenworth" referred to in the supplemental treaty above mentioned. The precise limits or extent of this cantonment, as originally fixed, if any were fixed,
did not appear. The region at that time was wild; and the
cantonment was one for shelter, rather than for defence.
Pursuant to the Senate resolution, one McCoy, a surveyor,
made a survey in the summer of 1830, and made a report
also of it, with a plat, in compliance with his instructions.
His plat was now produced. In his report, McCoy says:
"In the treaty no provision was made for a military reserve
at Cantonment Leavenworth. It has been thought desirable
that a tract of six miles on the Missouri River, and four
miles back, should be secured for this object. Accordingly,
the survey about the garrison has been made with a view to
such a reservation, as will be seen by reference to the plat.
In this arrangement the -Delaware chief, to whom the whole was
fully explained on the ground, has cordially acquiesced."
No copy, however, of this report, with any map approved
by the agent of the Delawares, or with the signature and
seal of the President as provided for in the Senate resolutions, was found in the War Office. It did not appear that
search was made in the State Department. There was, however, a copy without the President's signature or seal of
office found in the War Office, and filed among its documents, directed to the Secretary of War.
The next survey of the military tract about Fort Leavenworth was made by Captain A. R. Johnson, in 1839, under
orders, and a map of the survey filed in the War Depart-

IDee. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

Statement of the case.

ment. By this map, the southern boundary of the military
tract appears as originally fixed by McCoy, in 1830, but
the western boundary was somewhat changed by taking a
natural boundary, instead of a geographical line run by
McCoy.
In 1854, the Secretary of War ordered a survey to be
made, and a reservation laid off for military purposes at the
fort, which survey was made by Captain Hunt; and being
approved by the Secretary of War, the land therein set off
was directed by the President to be reserved for military
purposes. This survey also followed the southern boundary
line run by McCoy, in 1830; but Captain Hunt thought it
proper to limit this line so as to exclude a part of the land
embraced in the original reservation of 1830 and in the survey by Captain Johnson. In his report, Captain Hunt, after
stating that the line is run with McCoy's southern boundary,
says: "But as the reserve, as formerly laid out, was much
larger than I conceived necessary under my instructions, I
only went out two and three quarter miles on this line, and
thence along the top of ' The Bluffs' as near as I could, to
make a good boundary to the Missouri River."
This final survey made a camp of about three miles square;
the usual size of our camps.
By treaty of the 6th of May, 1854, the Delaware Indians
ceded to the United States all the land in the forks already
mentioned, with the exception of a certain part reserved in
the treaty,-no part of which reserved portion was north
of McCoy's line as limited by Captain Hunt. This reserved
part was to be still their "permanent home." The treaty
provided that the United States would have the ceded country surveyed and offered for sale, and pay the Indians the
moneys received therefrom. It provided, also, that, when
the Delawares desired it, the President might cause the
country reserved for their "permanent home" to be surveyed in the same manner as the ceded country was to be
surveyed, and might assign such uniform portions to each
person or family as should be designated by the principal
men of the tribe.

528

UNITED STATES V. STONE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In making the surveys under this treaty of May 6, 1854,
the lands between the western line of McCoy's survey of
1830 and the western line of Hunt's survey of 1854 were
surveyed, and were afterwards sold, by order of the President, for the benefit of the Delawares. But in those surveys, the western line of Hunt and the southern line of both
McCoy and Hunt, as far west as Hunt ran, were accepted as
the true lines of the military reservation, and no surveys
under the treaty were made therein.
By the next treaty with the Delawares (made May 30,
1860), it was agreed that, in consideration of long and faithful services, certain of their chiefs should "have allotted
to each a tract of land," to be selected by themselves, and
should receive "a patent in fee therefor from the President
of the United States."
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, in the year 1861, informed the Commissioner of the General Land Office that
the Secretary of the Interior had decided that the land lying
between the fort and the southern line of McCoy's survey
belonged to the Delawares, and had ordered the same to be
surveyed. And the chiefs, or one Stone; rather, to whom
they had assigned their "floats," having made selections in
this strip, and everything having gone through the usual
forms, patents passed the great seals, and having been signed
by the President, were delivered to the chiefs, or to their
agent, and subsequently to Stone, who now held, by deed
from them, the estates granted.
The patents all recited the promises of the treaty of 1860
to grant land to the chiefs, and went on to grant the particular tract, "in conformity with the provisions, as above recited, of the aforesaid treaty." In 1862, the Secretary of
the Interior decided that the patents had been issued without
legal authority, and he declared them void and revoked.
However, to proceed rightly, the United States filed a bill
in the Federal court of Kansas, against the Indian chiefs and
Stone, to have them judicially decreed null, and the instruments themselves delivered up for cancellation. The court
gave the decree asked for. Appeal here.

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

Argument in support of the patent.

Messrs. Stinson and Browning, with whom were Messrs. Ewing
and Carlisle,for the appellant Stone.
1. The recitals of the patent are conclusive, that the lands
were within the class from which the chiefs might select.
The language of the treaty of 1860 is, "there shall be allotted" to the grantees, to be selected by themselves, so many
acres of land. There are no words of limitation upon this
power of selection. It is made the duty of the President to
issue patents for the lands so selected. This duty is cast,
by the laws of the United States, upon the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, under the direction of the President. The selections having been made, it was the duty of
the commissioner, of course, either to pass upon them, under
the direction of the President, and by procuring the patent
to issue, make thq allotment complete, or else to refuse to
approve and ratify the selection. The interests of the Delawares were under the supervision of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs. These selections were made; they received
the approval of the Commisioner of Indian Affairs, and
were sanctioned by the President and the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, by the issuing the patents.
The principal case in which the jurisdiction of chancery is
affirmed to annul patents, at the suit of the sovereign,* is
put upon the ground of fraud practised by the patentee.
This is believed to be the only ground upon which the courts
of chancery have heretofore taken jurisdiction in such cases.
Admitting, however, that if the land were within the boundaries of any military reservation, a mere grant of it might be
voidable, yet where the Commissioner of the General Land
Office and the President declare, as they do here, that they
tyre acting "in conformity with the provisions of a treaty" which
authorizes grants only of lands not in such reservation, then
the Government is concluded. It is estopped to say that the
land was in a military fort. The discretion of saying what
portion of these lands was open to patent, is vested by the
* Attorney-General v. Vernon, 2 Reports in Chancery; S. C., 1 Vernon,

277.
VOL. M.

84

UN ITED

STATES V. STONE.

[:Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the patent.

Government in its officers, and the discretion having been exercised honestly, the decision is conclusive upon the Government. When no wrong is done to an individual, "it is supposed the acts of the executive, within the general scope of
its powers and by virtue of law, cannot be removed, though
to some extent the letter of the law may not have been followed. There is no court of errors in which executive deci
sions that do not affect individual rights can be reversed."*
Any other doctrine would transfer the decision of every
question of boundary and location which might arise in the
sale of the public lands from the Land Office to the courts,
and reduce letters patent under the great seal from the
highest to the lowest gTade of evidence of title. While the
mere issuing of the patent has been treated by the courts
as a purely ministerial act, yet the patent, when issued,
becomes conclusive evidence of all the niatters essential to
the legality of its issue.
2. But, in point of fact, are these lands within the camp?
Camp Leavenworth was located, in 1827, upon the public
lands of the United States. There was no rule or usage
which attached adjacent lands to such a camp. litchell v.
United Statest will, perhaps, be relied on by the other side
as an authority for a limit of three miles. But that curtilage
established in that case was founded on a Spanish usage in
regard to fortified places, and even then a purchase from or
cession by the Indians was necessary.
The authority to appropriate a portion of the public domain, in the vicinity of military posts, to their use, is conceded to thePresident as an incident to his power to establish
such posts; but some actual appropriation is necessary; the
establishment of a camp does not proprid viyore also establish
a military reservation about it.1 However, in this case there
is no evidence even of a disposition by the President to have
any part of this land; for it was provided by the treaty of
1829, that when the President is satisfied that the boundaries,
* United States v. Lytle et al., 5 McLean, 9; Astrom et al. v. Hammond
3 Id. 107.
+ 9 Peters, 711; S. C. Id. 62

1 Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Id. 498.

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V. STONE.

581,

Argument in favor of cancellation.

as fixed by the surveyor, have been concurred in by such
agent, he shall approve the proceedings under his signature
and seal of office, and the boundaries so fixed shall be conclusive upon the parties to the treaty. There is no evidence
that he ever did approve of anything. The non-production
of the required map is rather proof that he did not. Whenever the United States have sought to reserve the right to
establish military posts upon lands granted to an Indian
tribe, the reservation has been distinctly made in the treaty
containing the grant.* In 1832, the United States, by treaty,
ceded to the Kickapoo Indians a portion of country immediately north of the reservation of the Delawares; but prescribed the boundaries of the ceded country, so as to exclude
a large area northwardly and westwardly, fiom Camp Leavenworth. This express reservation, in that case, is presumptive evidence that no such reservation was implied or intended
in the treaty with the Delawares of 1829.t
The faith and dignity of the Government forbid that any
olaim should be made on its behalf to the lands in controversy by reason of occupancy and possession. In no case
can the United States acquire title by pre-emption. Here
the Indians could not sue,-the Government could not be
sued. The peculiarly fiduciary relations of the Government
to the Indians, and their condition of absolute dependence,
would in any event destroy the presumption of a grant
which might in other cases arise from such possession unexplained.
Hfr. Coffey, special counsel of the United States, contra.
1. This court has settled that the issuing of a patent for
public lands is a ministerial act, which must be performed
according to law; and that where it has been issued, whether
fraudulently or not, wbithout authority of law, it is void. The
* 7 Stat. at Large, 15, Art. 3; 17, Art. 4-7,8; 22, Art. 3; 24, Art. 830, Art. 10; 33 Art. 1, 2; 51, Art. 4; 56, Art. 4; 68, Art. 8; 86, Art. 11,
33, Art. 1; 314, Art. 9
f Ia. 889-891.

532

UNITED STATES V. STONE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in favor of cancellation.

doctrine was strongly stated in The State of Minnesota v.
Bachelder at the last term.* And such patents have been repeatedly declared void, both at law and in equity, though, as
Marshall, 0. J., says, "A court of equity is better adapted to
the purpose than a court of law."t Ladigav. Boland,t where
an act of the President, under a special authority by treaty
in disposing of Indian lands, was declared void for not conforming to the treaty, is, in principle, not unlike the present case. In Jackson v. Lawton,ยง Kent, C. J., says, that the
general rule is, that letters patent can only be avoided in
chancery by a writ of scirefacias sued out on the part of the
Government, or by some individual prosecuting in its name;
but he admits the equitable remedy also as a true one. He
thus speaks: "The English practice of suing out a scirefacias
by the first patentee may have grown out of the rights of the
prerogative, and it ceases to be applicable with us. In addition to the remedy by scire facias, &c., there is another by
bill in the equity side of the Court of Chancery. Such a bill
was sustained in the case of the Attorney- General v. Vernon,j
to set aside letters patent obtained by fr-aud, and they were
set aside by a decree."
Where the United States is the party injured, as in this
case, these principles are equally available for her relief.
The patents, it is true, were issued by her officer, but she is
not bound by their unauthorized acts. Her officers can bind
her only within the scope of their lawful authority.
Plainly, too, the appropriate remedy of the United States,
to set aside and cancel patents issued by her officers, without
due legal authority, is by bill in equity.
2. The question then remains, What was the southern
boundary of the fort? The line we apprehend as run by
the surveyor, McCoy. This person made his survey in substantial compliance with the terms of the Senate resolution.
1 Wallace, 115.
t Polk v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 98; Hoofnagle o. Anderson, 7 Wheaton,
214; Cunningham v. Ashley, 14 Howard, 389; Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters,
674; Brown v. Ciements, 3 Howard, 667.
t 5 Howard, 581.
10 Johnson, 24.
II1 Vernon, 277.

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

Argument in favor of cancellation.

and with the. approval of the agent of the tribe. He reported his proceedings to the Secretary of War, the minister
then intrusted with that branch of executive duty; and the
map of his survey, taken from the records of the Government, is in evidence. In the absence of specific proof, the
formal approval of the President will be presumed, as well
because the condition upon which that approval depended
was performed, viz., the concurrence of the agent of the
Delawares in the survey, as, moreover, because no other
survey of the Delaware grant was ever made afterwards,
but the tribe took possession and held under that survey
without objection for twenty-five years. This long acquiescence by both parties, with actual possession by the Delawares on one side of the lines, and by the United States on
the other, must be conclusive.
Its recognition and adoption by the Executive Department
is shown by the survey of Johnson in 1839; by the survey
of Hunt in 1854; and the subsequent reservation by the
President of the land therein embraced for military pur'poses, and by other evidence in the case. And the fact that
the Secretary of the Interior, in 1861, overruling the decision of his predecessors, ordered surveys to be made north
of that line, does not weaken the significance of this recognition.
The line was to run up the Missouri "to" Camp Leavenworth; but the treaty did not attempt to designate the site
of the camp. That was a question of fact to be ascertained
and determined by the United States, which had the right
as absolute owner to say how far its selected military camp
should extend. The proper person to decide that question
was the authorized surveyor, who, in the presence and with
the sanction of the Indian agent, was marking on the ground
the vague boundaries fixed by the treaty. After twenty-five
years of acquiescence by both parties in that designation,
it must be accepted as an authoritative construction of the
treaty, having the force of the treaty itself. The land in
question was therefore never a part of the grant to the Delawares.

UNITED STATES

1.

STONE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of cancellation.

No law, or even uniform practice, has ever fixed a method
by which the limits of a military reservation out of the public lands must be ascertaned and marked. Each reservation
has been designated in its own way, and some of them, as
that of Rock Island, have never been surveyed at all. The
survey of the exterior lines of the reservation of Camp Leavenworth by McCoy, has more of legal form and authority, as a
designation of the reserve, than that of many others. Thik
court, in Mitchell et al. v. United States,* directed that where
the boundaries of land, ceded by the Indians to the King of
Spain, in Florida, for the erection of a fort, could not be
ascertained, the adjacent lands, which were considered and
held by the Spanish government, or the commandant of the
post, as annexed to the fortress for military purposes, should
be reserved with the fortress for the use of the United States:
that if no evidence could be obtained to designate the extent
of the adjacent lands which were considered as annexed to
the fortress, then so much land should be comprehended in
the reservation as, according to the military usage, was
generally attached to forts in Florida or the adjacent colonies. And if no such military usage could be proved, then
it was ordered that the reservation consist of the land embraced with in certain lines extending from the point of junction of two rivers three miles up both of said rivers.
Attorney-General Butler, who argued the case for the
United States, suggestst that the length of three miles was
probably selected, because generally considered the extreme
distance to which a cannon-shot can be thrown. In an
official opinion of his he advises the application 6f the rule
laid down by the court in that decree,J in ascertaining the
extent of other unsurveyed reservations out of the public
lands for military purposes. If the rule be that the reservation should extend three miles around the fort, the line of
McCoy, as altered by Johnson and Hunt, has kept within
those limits. And whether three miles was fixed by the
* 9 Peters, 761, 762.
t 3 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 110.

I lb.

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

O~inion of the court.

supposed length to which a cannon-shot could be thrown or
not, it is clear that it was wisely adopted to protect military
fortifications from encroachments like that in the present
case, which actually, if I may here state a fact, takes part
of the necessary buildings of the fort.
8. The treaty of 80th of May, 1860, conferred on the chiefs
the right to select their respective portions of land from the
body of land reserved to the tribe for its "permanent home'
by the treaty of May 6, 1854, and from that body of land
only; and, therefore, any selection made, even by themselves
in good faith, outside of that permanent home, on the lands
granted to the tribe by the supplemental treaty of 1829, and
afterwards ceded to the United States in trust for the tribe
by the treaty of May 6, 1854, would be unauthorized and
void.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
A patent is the highest evidence of title, and is conclusive
as against the Government, and all claiming under junior
patents or titles, until it is set aside or annulled by some
judicial tribunal. In England this was originally done by
scirefacias, but a bill in chancery is found a more convenient
remedy.
Nor is fraud in the patentee the only ground upon which
a bill will be sustained. Patents are sometimes issued unadvisedly or by mistake, where the officer has no authority
in law to grant them, or where another party has a higher
equity and should have received the patent. In such cases
courts of law will pronounce them void. The patent is but
evidence of a grant, and the officer who issues it acts ministerially and not judicially. If he issues a patent for land reserved from sale by law, such patent is void for want of authority. But one officer of the land office is not competent
to cancel or annul the act of his predecessor. That is .ajudi.
cial act, and zequires the judgment of a court.
It is contended here, by the counsel of the United States,
that the land for which a patent was granted to the appel.
rant was reserved from sale for the use of the Government,

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

and, consequently, that the patent is void. And although
no fraud is charged in the bill, we have no doubt that such
a proceeding in chancery is the proper remedy, and that if
the allegations of the bill are supported, that the decree of
the court below cancelling the patent should be affirmed.
The grant to the Delaware Indians in 1829 calls for Camp
Leavenworth as a boundary; consequently, the camp and
its appurtenances were not included in the grant. What
lands properly belonged to this military post, and the proper
curtilage necessary for the use and enjoyment of it not being
fixed with precision in the general description of the land
granted, could be ascertained only by a survey on the
ground.
The resolution of the Senate of May 29th, 1830, provides
that the President should employ a surveyor "to run the
lines, and to establish certain and notorious landmarks accurately and permanently, to distinguish the boundaries of
the country granted, in the presence of an agent to be designated by the Delaware nation, the surveyor to make report with a map or draft of the said granted country," &c.
The Secretary of War, by the authority of the President.
referred the execution of this duty to a surveyor (McCoy),
instructing him "to be governed in every particular by the
treaty and the resolution of the Senate."
No copy of this report, with the map approved by the
agent of the Delawares, and with the signature and seal of
the President, as provided for in the Senate resolution, is
found in the War Office, and it does not appear that search
was made in the State Department. There is, however, a
copy found in the War Office, directed to the Secretary of
War, and filed among its documents.
This survey was made in the presence of the agent of the
Delawares. It marked the usual quantity of about three
miles square, as appurtenant to the post and necessary for
its use and subsistence, making the lines thereof the boundary of the grant to the Delawares, with the concurrence
and consent of the agent of the nation. It was made in the
year 1830, and since that time both parties have held pos-

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V. STONE.
Opinion of the court.

session and claimed up to the lines then established by the
survey. In the case of private persons, a boundary surveyed
by the parties and acquiesced in for more than thirty years,
could not be made the subject of dispute by reference to
courses and distances called for in the patents under which
the parties claimed, or on some newly discovered construction of their title deeds. We see no reason why the same
principle should not apply in the present case, notwithstanding the absence or loss of the document required by the resolution of the Senate.
The authority of the President, acting through the Secretary of War and his officers, to have posts and forts established, with a proper quantity of ground appropriated for
the use of each reserved from sale, is fully discussed and decided in Wilcox v. Jackson.
In 1854, a survey was made under orders of the Secretary
of War, "including the buildings and improvements, and
so much land as may be necessary for military purposes,
at Fort Leavenworth." This survey adopted the southern
boundary as run by McCoy, and commenced at the same
point. It did not include all the land reserved by that
survey, but the land now claimed is embraced within its
limits. This survey was approved by the President, and the
land contained in it formally reserved for military purposes.
The survey made of the Delaware lands, under the treaty oi
1854, adopted the McCoy line.
The Secretary of the Interior, in 1861, transcended his
authority when he attempted to overrule the acts of his pre.
decessors, and ordered surveys to be made north of that
line to include the land now in question.
We are of opinion, therefore,
1st. That the land claimed by appellant never was within
the tract allotted to the Delaware Indians in 1829 and surveyed in 1830.
2d. That it is within the limits of a reservation legally
made by the President for military purposes.
Consequently, the patents issued to the appellant were
without authority and void.

THE ANN CAROLINE.[

[Sup, ot

Statement of the case.

The question on the construction of the treaty of 1860, as
to whether the grants to the chiefs and interpreter were to
be located within that portion of these lands which was reserved for their "permanent home," or in that portion
which was to be sold for their use, would be also fatal to the
claim of appellant. But the decision of the other points in
the case make this one only hypothetical, and, as it is a
question not likely to ever arise again, we think it unnecessary to vindicate our opinion by arguments.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE ANN CAROLINE.
1. The ordinary and settled rule of navigation, that when two vessels are
approaching each other on opposite tacks, both having the wind free,
the one on the larboard side shall give way and pass to the right, does
not apply when one is to the windward of the other, and ahead of or
above her in a narrow channel, so that an observance of it would probably produce a collision.
2. Stipulators in admiralty, who have entered into stipulations to procure
the discharge of a vessel attached under a libel for collision, cannot be
made liable for more than the amount assumed in their stipulation as
the amount which the offending vessel is worth, with costs as stipulated
for.
8. The true damage incurred by a party whose vessel has been sunk by collision being the value of his vessel, that sum (without interest) was
given in a proceeding in rem., where the value of the offending vessel
was fixed in stipulations that had been entered into to procure her discharge at that identical sum.

THIs was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, in a
case of collision at sea,-the case being thus:
The owner of the schooner J. C. Wells filed a libel in
admiralty in the Southern District of New York against the
schooner Ann Caroline, to recover damages for a collision
occurring on the eastern shore of the Delaware Bay. The
two vessels were beating up the bay of a fine morning in
Febriuary, 1854, in company with several other vessels, and

