Dec. 1864.]

DAY v. GALLUP.
Statement of the case.

The questions arising on this appeal, and on the certificate
of division, come up together, and are heard on the same
record.
The omission to file the bond, under the circumstances,
may be corrected by filing one in conformity with the act
of Congress. The peculiar state of the record, and mode
of bringing up the questions from the court below, probably
misled the solicitors.
Let a rule be entered, that the appellant have sixty days
from notice of it, to.file a bond with the clerk of the court,
to be approved by the proper officer, upon complying with
which, this motion be dismissed; otherwise granted.

DAY V. GALLUP.
1. In trespass in a State court against the marshal of the United States for
levying on goods which ought not to have been levied on, the marshal's
title as marshal is not necessarily drawn in question. He may be sued.
not as marshal, but as trespasser. Hence, a judgment in a State court
against a marshal for making a levy alleged to be wrong, is not
necessarily a proper subject for review in this court, under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, allowing such review in certain cases
where "an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in
question, and the decision is against its validity."
2. Where a proceeding in the Federal court is terminated so that no case
is pending there, a State court, unless there be some special cause to
the contrary, may have jurisdiction of a matter arising out of the same
general subject, although, if the proceeding in the Federal court had
not been terminated, the State court might not have had it.

THE 25th section of the Judiciary Act provides that a final
judgment in the highest court of law of a State, in which is
drawn in question the validity of an "authority exercised
under the United States," and the decision is against its validity, may be reviewed in this court. With this act in
force, Gallup sued Derby & Day, Gear, and Allis, in a State
court of Minnesota, in trespass, for taking and carrying away
goods. On the 1st April, 1860, the defendants justified
under certain writs of attachment and execution, issued oul
of the 1I'ederal court for Minnesota, in a certain suit therein
VOL. II

7

DAY v. GALLUP.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

pending, wherein Derby & Day were plaintiffs, and one
Griggs defendant. In this suit judgment had been given
10tb September, 1859, execution issued on the next day, and
returned satisfied on the 19th. The justification set up that
Allis was attorney of Derby & Day, and Gear, marshal of
the United States; that the taking was by Gear as United
States marshal, under and by virtue of the writs, and at the
request of Derby & Day. The debt. from Griggs to Derby
& Day, the affidavits and order on which the attachment and
the judgment on which the execution were issued, were also
pleaded by the defendants below, and that the property was
the property of Griggs. The plaintiff below replied, denying that the property was the property of Griggs, but not
denying the character of the defendants, or that the taking
was under Federal process.
Gallup's suit against Derby & Day, Allis, and the marshal, was brought to trial June 18th, 1860; but, before the
swearing of a jury, was discontinued as to the marshal.
On trial of it against the remaining defendants, Derby &
Day, and Allis, it was not contended by the plaintiff that any
of these parties were guilty of any but a constructive taking;
that is to say, of more than having authorized the marshal
to seize under his process; and before the defendants had
offered any evidence, and before there had been any proof
of a suit pending in the Federal court, or of an attacltment
issued out of such court, or that the said goods had been
taken under process, the defendants' counsel moved, on the
part of the defendants, Derby & Day, and Allis, and also for
each of them separately, to dismiss the case, on the ground
that there was nothing in the evidence which showed that
they, or either of them, had had anything to do with the
act of Gear, the marshal, in taking the goods; a defence
set up by Allis in his answer as to other defendants than the
marshal, and as was said in the motion, not denied in the
reply. This the court refused to do; the defendants excepting. The defendants then called the clerk of the Federal
court, and gave in evidence the substance of the attachmeri
suit of Derby & Day against Griggs; showing, or endea.c

De(-. 1864.1

DAY v. GALLUP.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ing to show. that the goods attached had originally been
their goods; that Griggs had bought them on credit, and
that the alleged sale by him to Gallup was a fraud; that
the goods were infact still the property of Griggs. They
offered in evidence, als o,the simple writ of attachment,
which, under exception, the court refused to let go before
the jury, unless the affidavit on which it was founded was
also produced. Verdict was, however, given against Derby
& Day, and Allis, the attorney, though afterwards set aside
as to this last. Judgment having been entered against Derby
& Day, the case was taken by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, in which it was affirmed; and it was
now before this court on writ of error, the question being
whether there had been drawn in question, in that Supreme
Court of Minnesota, any authority exercised under the
United States.
Mr.Peckham for the plaintiff in error: The justification of
the defendants below of the alleged trespass was under a
writ of attachment issued out of the United States District
Court. Here, then, is a valid defence under the authority
of a United States court and marshal admitted on the record, and which the State court must have overruled, in
order to have rendered the judgment they did. The proceeding is in Minnesota, and, of course, under its code.

When a fact is stated in a pleading under the code of Minnesota, which constitutes of itself a defence, the intent to rely
on it as such is a necessary inference.*
And the court is bound to give judgment according to the
pleadings, without any demurrer being interposed. A judgment entered upon a trial in the face of an admission by the
pleadings, showing that there ought to be no such judgment,
would be erroneous.t
* Bridge v. Payson, 5 Sandford, N. Y. 210. The code of New York and
of Minnesota being substantially the same, the decisions of New York are
considered as applying.
f Id. p. 217. -See, also, Van Vqlen v. Lapham, 13 Howard's New York
Practice Reports 246.

DAY V.

[6uI). (C'L

GALLUIP.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Now, under the case of Crowell v. Ranaall,* it appears in
this case, by necessary intendment, that the question must
have been raised and was decided. Aside, too, from its
being raised by the pleadings, it was raised, although unnecessarily, on the trial. For the defendants below objected, and
excepted to being obliged to produce in evidence more than
the simple writ of attachment, thus claiming that the simple
taking under United States process was in ztself a defence, and
without producing the affidavits, &c., on which it was
founded, which would, of course, be necessary to sustain a
defence founded only on fraud.
It is true that Derby & Day were not asserted to be guilty
otherwise than constructively; that is to say, as being plaintiffs in the suit, and as having directed the levy and received
the benefits. But it is certain that if the act isjustified in or
by the actual doer, it must be justified by the constructive
one also. The case is the same as if the proceeding were
against the marshal alone.
Now, it is settled by Freemanv. Howe, in this court,t that,
as between State and United States courts, whenever an action has been commenced in one of them, the court in which
it is commenced has exclusive jurisdiction over any "res"
that may be in controversy, and over any "question" that
may arise in any stage of the litigation, whether immediate
or ancillary. In this case, for example, that the question
whether the marshal was a trespasser or not, involves a
question of right and title to the property under the Federal
process, which it belongs to the Federal and not State courts
to determine; that is, to say it again, and in other words,
that in the State courts (and vice versd where the State court
first commences the action) the property must be regarded
as in the possession of the marshal as marshal, or in the custody of the law. The case, in fact, decides that as the question "of title to the property under the Federal process" can
only be "determined" in the Federal courts, it is incumbent
on the State courts to leave that question to them, and that
* 10 Peters, 368.

t- 24 Howard, 457.

DAY v. GALLUP

D"c. 1864.]

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

in the State courts the marshal can never be held as a trespasser where he has, in good faith, under process, levied on
goods as the property of the defendant in the writ; that whenever the marshal would have a right to seize goods on the
allegation or claim that they belonged to the defendant in
his writ, his acts in such cases, in the State courts, must be
regarded as official; and the question as to whom the goods
did belong can be litigated only in the courts of the United
States.
The principle was, in fact, illustrated in the early case of
Slocum v. Mayberry.* "If," says Marshall, C. J., in that
case,--" if the officer has a right, under the laws of the
United States, to seize for a supposed forfeiture, the question,
whether that forfeiture has been actually incurred, belongs
exclusively to the Federal courts, and cannot be drawn to
another forum. And if the seizure be finally adjudged
wrongful, and without reasonable cause, he may proceed,
at his election, by a suit at common law, or in the Admiralty, for damages for the illegal act."
In _reeman v. Howe, it was held, that the case did "involve a question of right and title to the property under the
Federal process, which belonged to the Federal, and not
State courts, to determine."
In this case there was no possession of the res by the marshal as marshal, unless on the assumption of the exclusive
authority of the Federal court to decide the question of
title. If Gallup desired to bring his action of trespass in
the State court, the proper way for him to have done, was
first to have litigated the naked right of property in the
.Federal court. If successful in that, he then could have
brought his action either of trespass or replevin. Such a
course would not have been new. It was successfully pursued in Gelston v. Hoyt.t In that case, the question of forfeiture was first litigated in. the Federal court, and decided
in favor of the claimant. The claimant then brought trepass in the State court, and recovered.
*2 Wheat -n, 1.

t" 8 Id. 246.

DAY V.

GALLUP.

ISup. Ct

Argument for the defendant 'n error.

Mr. . H. Bradley, contra: The State court, it will be con.
ceded by the other side, had either exclusive or concurrent
jurisdiction both of the parties and the subject-matter, unless that jurisdiction is concluded by the fact that the property was taken under process issued by the Federal court.
Now, the title to the property had not been called in quesdon in that court, and there had been no decision respecting it. The return of the execution, in that case, was dated
19th September, 1859; the complaint filed 26th September,
1859. The Federal court, therefore, at the time this suit was
brought, had no possession of or control over the parties or
the subject-matter. The case between -Derby&-Day v. Griggs,
in the Federal court, had been decided; the money made on
the execution, and the debt satisfied.
It is supposed the jurisdiction of the State court was concluded, by the fact that the alleged trespass was committed
by the marshal in execution of process; and these parties
assisting him, their liability will depend on his; and as at
that time the Federal court had jurisdiction, this action could
not be brought in the State court. The case of Freeman v.
Howe is relied on. The principle on which that case rests,
and which is the basis of all preceding cases in this court on
that point, is that when tle possession or control of person
or property has been taken by a Federal court, in the -xercise of its jurisdiction, it will retain that possession and
control to the conclusion of the case. It follows, that all
questions touching the rightfulness of such possession are
to be decided by it. This court, in the case cited, has
suggested the remedies for persons claiming such property,
and not already parties to the suit. But neither the reasons
given by the court, in the decision of those causes, or any
one of them, nor the judgments themselves, can be read to
exclude the State courts from providing remedies for inju.
ries received by individuals from acts of the officers of the
Federal court done colore officii, especially after the case
between the parties in the Federal court is at an end, and
the rights of the parties so injured have not been drawn in
qJestion anE decided in the Federal court.

Dec. 1864.]

DAY

v. GAL.LUP.

Argument for the defendant in error.

If the person or property is taken under an attachment,
or under a proceeding in rem, the retention of possession is
necessary to the due exercise of the jurisdiction of the Federal court; if it is taken under an execution, the process
is returnable into that court, and that court claims the ex.
clusive right to determine all the questions in the cause.
If an action had been brought by Gallup in the Federal
court against these plaintiffs, it cannot be doubted or denied
that he might have maintained it pending the suit between
them and Griggs in that court. Or he might have resorted
to one of the remedies suggested in .Freemanv. Howe, to
raise the question of the right of property. The first, because they were citizens of different States; the last, because
that court had the custody and control of the property in
dispute .in another suit, between other parties. This last
reason fails when that litigation is ended; and Gallup's
rights, postponed as to the forum pending that suit, revive
when the property is no longer in the custody or control of
the Federal court, and his right to it has not been called in
question and decided in that court. The result is, that the
jurisdiction of the State court is suspended while the property is held in the custody of the law; it revives as soon as
that custody ceases. If this be so, there is no error in the
record from the State court.
But if this be not so, still the remedy by the action of
trespass or case may be proceeded with, even while the property taken by the marshal is in the custody of the Federal
court. It is unimportant where the property is. Even if it
has been destroyed, this action may be prosecuted. The suits
are between different parties, for different causes of action.
The validity of the process of the Federal court is in nowise
called in question; its exclusive jurisdiction over the parties
and the subject-matter in controversy between them, is not
interrupted; its process, from the impetration of the writ
to the satisfaction of the judgment, is unimpaired. If these
actions could be brought and maintained in that court, between proper parties, leaving the custody of the property
where it was first put by the lhw, so here the State court,

DAY V. GA LLUP.

ES 111

Ct

Argument for the defendant in error.

having concurrent jurisdiction, must be allowed to proceed
with it, leaving the property still in the custody of the law.
It never has been said by this court, that a State court has
no jurisdiction to inquire into trespasses, vi et armis, committed by marshals under a pretence of process. The tests
are: Is the subject-matter of the two suits the same? Can
both suits be carried on without a conflict of authority between the two courts? If so, they may well be prosecuted
in the two forums at the same time. If not, then the court
which first obtained jurisdiction of the palties and the subject-matter will retain it to the end.*
In the Federal court, a party is pursuing his remedy to
recover a debt. That is the subject-matter of the suit. As
part of the process in that suit, property is taken, and is to
be held in the custody of the law until that cause is finally
disposed of, unless that court shall in the meanwhile order
it to be released. It will not tolerate the interference of any
other court with property so situated.
In the State court having concurrent jurisdiction with the
Federal court, the action is brought, not to recover possession of the property thus held in the custody of the law in
the Federal court, but to recover damages for the unlawful
taking. The cause of action, or subject-matter of this suit,
is the injury sustained by the party from whom that property was taken under color of process. The process may
be omni exceptione major; and yet the taking under the color
of that process may be a trespass. Either court may have,
and must have, the power to decide this last question without infringing on the jurisdiction of the other. The property is in the custody of the law, to enable that court to
decide, not the right of property, but the demand in that
suit. No question as to the authority of the Federal court
to issue the process is involved, directly or indirectly. If it
shall appear that the property was subject to that process,
the marshal is justified. The process is good; but that
does not afford protection to him for taking the property of
* Smith v. McIve.

9 Whaton. 5.22; Shby v. Bacon, 10 Howard, 5G,

Dec. 1864.]

DAY v. GALLUP.

105

Opinion of the court.

another, for abusing the process. He is not sued qua marshal, but as trespasser. He sets up his defence qua marshal,
and it fails, and that is a question which a State court is
competent to try, equally with a Federal court.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The dates in this case show that at the time Gallup's suit
was brought there was no case pending in the Federal court,
respecting the goods which had been attached under that
court's process, on attachment. On the 18th of June, 1860,
before a jury was sworn in the case, it was dismissed as to
Gear, the marshal. On that day a jury was sworn, and on
the 20th of the month they returned a verdict for Gallup, with
interest and costs. In fact, it becomes plain that the defendants did not then consider that there was any necessary
connection between Gallup's complaint and themselves on
account of the seizure and sale of the former's goods under
the process of the Federal court; for on the trial of the
cause, before any proof had been given that there had been
a suit in the Federal court fiom which an attachment had
been issued, or that the goods of Gallup had been seized and
sold under its process, and after the defendants had examined witnesses and Gallup had rested his case upon that testimony, the defendants moved to dismiss Gallup's complaint
as to all of them conjointly, and for each of them separately,
on the ground that the defence of Allis in his answer was not
denied in the reply as to the defendants, Derby & Day and
Allis, or on the part of them separately, and because there
was no evidence to connect them with the taking of the
goods. The motion was refused; the defendants excepting
to the decision of it. And then the defendants introduced
as a witness the clerk of the Federal court; and he, to use
the language of the record, proved substantiallythe suit in
the Federal court of Derby & Day against Griggs, and the
defendants regarded the sale by Griggs to Gallup as fraudulent. In no part of the record does it appear that the authority of Gear, as marshal, to take the goods, was drawn in
luestion Nor is it to be inferred from any pleading by the

106

HumISToN v. STAINTHORP.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

defendants.

The facts are, that, from the return of the

execution satisfied, the Federal court had no control over
the parties. The case between the plaintifs in error against
Griggs had been decided, the money made on the execution,
and the debt paid.
Upon the facts of the case, as they appear in the record,
we have determined that no one of the questions described
in the 28th section of the Judiciary Act necessarily arose or
was decided by the Supreme Court of Minnesota. We think
it unnecessary to particularize such decided questions as
will give jurisdiction to this court under that act. We
therefore dismiss the writ of error to the Supreme Court oi
Minnesota.
DISmISSAL ACCORDINGLY.

HUMISTON V. STAINTHORP.
A decree in chancery, awarding to a patentee a permanent injunction, and
for an account of gains and profits, and that the cause be referred to a
master to take and state the amount, and to report to the court, is not
a final decree, within the meaning of the act of Congress allowing an

appeal on a final decree to this court.
STAINTHORP

and Seguine had filed a bill in the Circuit

Court for the Northern District of New York, against
llumiston, for infringing a patent for moulding candles;

and had obtained a decree against him.
The decree was that the complainants were entitled to a
permanent injunction, and for an account of gains and profits,
and that the cause be referred to a master to take and state the
amount and report to the court.
A motion was now made to dismiss the cause for want of
jurisdiction.
.iMr. Gifford, in favor of the motion of dismissal: An appeali
lies only from a final decree: this is an interlocutory one.

