THE VENICE.

[Sup. CL.

Syllabus.

ter of agent, and acted within the principle laid down in the
circular, it was protected. But, as we have already shown,
the defendant changed that relation by using the money as
its own, and became the debtor of the plaintiff for the sum
collected.
The counsel for plaintiff in error raises the point, that the
action was trespass on the case for wrongfully receiving the
depreciated paper, and that the circular is a sufficient defence
to such a count. This is undoubtedly true, both as to the
nature of the action and as to the effect of the notice, and if
it had been in any manner made a point in the court below,
we do not see how we could avoid reversing the judgment.
But nothing of the kind was done. All the testimony was
received without objection. No instruction was asked of
the court by either party as to the effect of the testimony in
sustaining plaintiff's case, or as to the effect of the notice in
making good defendant's receipt of depreciated paper. On
the contrary, the only instruction prayed by defendant's
counsel recognizes the right to recover something with interest, and only raises the question of the measure of damages.* On that subject we think the instruction asked
was erroneous, and properly refiised. It is too late now to
object for the first time to the particular form of the action.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE VENICE.
1. The military occupation of the city of New Orleans by the forces of the
United States, after the dispossession of the rebels from that immediate
region in May, 1862, may be considered as having been substantially
complete from the publication of General Butler's proclamation of the
6th (dated on the ls) of that month; and all the rights and obligations
resulting from such occupation, or from the terms of the proclamation,
existed from the date of that publication.
2. This proclamation, in announcing, as it did, that "all rights of property" would be held "inviolate, subject only to the laws of the United
* See supra, p. 258.

Dee. 1864.]

THE VENICE.
Statement of the case.

States;" and that "all foreigners not naturalized, claiming allegiance
to their respective governments, and not having made oath of allegiance to the government of the Confederate States," would be "protected
in their persons and property as heretofore under the laws of the United
States," did but reiterate the rules established by the legislative and
executive action of the national Government, and which may also be
inferred from the policy of the war, in respect to the portions of the
States in insurrection occupied and controlled by the troops of the
Union. It was the manifestation of a general purpose, which seeks the
re-establishment of the national authority, and the ultimate restoration
of States and citizens to their national relations under better forms and
firmer guarantees, without any view of subjugation by conquest.
8. Substantial, complete, and permanent mil:tary occupation and control,
as distinguished from one that is illusory, imperfect, and transitory,
works the exception made in the act of July 18th, 1861 (Q5), which excepts from the rebellious condition those parts of rebellious States
"from time to time occupied and controlled by forces of the United
States engaged in the dispersion of the insurgents;" and such military
occupation draws after it the full measure of protection to persons and
property consistent with a necessary subjection to military government.
4. The President's proclamation of 81st of March, 1863, affected in no respect the general principles of protection to rights and property under
temporary government, established after the restoration of national
authority.
5. Vessels and their cargoes belonging to citizens of New Orleans, or neutrals residing there and not affected by any attempts to run the blockade, or by any act of hostility against the United States, were protected
after the publication of General Butler's proclamation, dated Miay 1st,
1862, and published on the 6th; though such persons, by being identified by long voluntary residence and by relations of active business
with the enemy, may have themselves been cenemies" within the
meaning of the expression as used in public law.

THE schooner Venice, with a cargo of cotton, was captured in Lake Pontchartrain, Louisiana, by the United States
ship-of-war Calhoun, on the 15th of May, 1862; was taken
to Key West, libelled as a prize of war in the District Court,
but was restored, with her cargo, to the claimant, Cooke, by
its decree. The United States appealed.
The case, as appearing from the proofs,* and from the
public history of the country, was in substance thus:
* These consisted of the papers found on board at the time of Lapture,
khe depositions of the master and of the claimant, taken on the standing in.
terrogatories, and a special affidavit.

THE VENICE.

[Sup Ot.

Statement of the case.

The claimant, Cooke, was a native British subject, and
had resided, and been engaged in business, in New Orleans,
without being naturalized as a citizen of the United States,
for nearly ten years previously to the capture. About the
1st of April, 1862, he purchased, in the interior of the State
of Mississippi, two hundred and five bales of cotton. This
cotton, as he alleged, was bought as an investment for "Confederate notes," which he had become possessed of in previous employments in New Orleans; his intention being to
let the cotton remain in the interior, away from the seaboard, until the rebellion should be over, and the cotton
could be shipped and sold for gold or its equivalent. To
prevent the threatened destruction of it under rebel order in
Mississippi, he shipped it to New Orleans, where it arrived
about the 7th of April. The same danger awaited it there.
General Lovell, the rebel commanding general, gave him
notice that his cotton must be immediately removed, or prepared for complete destruction in the event of the capture of
the city. The schooner Venice was then lying near New
Orleans, in the basin of the Pontchartrain Canal. This vcssel
the claimant purchased from her New Orleans owner, and
about the 12th of April stowed the cotton, purchased as
above stated, on board of her, together with twenty other
bales of the same article, which were purchased in New
Orleans, and put on board to complete the lading of the
vessel, in order that it might be out of danger of burning
in case of the capture of New Orleans by the United States
forces. After being thus loaded, the Venice, on the 17th
April, was towed out into Lake Pontchartrain.
During all this time, New Orleans and the surrounding
region was in open rebellion and war against the United
States, and the port of New Orleans and Lake Pontchartrain
under blockade.
The Venice remained at anchor in the lake from the time
she was taken there, April 17th, 1862, till her capture, on
May 15th, 1862, being unfit for service; and though undergoing repairs, having had no intention of breaking rhe
blockade.

Dec. 1864.]

THE VENICE.
Statement of the case.

Between these two dates, however, important naval and
military events t ok place at New Orleans. The Government fleet, under Flag-officer Farragut, reached New Orleans
on the 25th April; and on the 26th, the flag-officer sent one
of his commanders to demand of the mayor the surrender
of the city. The reply of the mayor was "that the city was
under martial law, and that he would consult General LoveL." General Lovell declared in turn that "he would surrender nothing," but at the same time that he would retire
and leave the mayor unembarrassed. On the 26th, the flagofficer sent a letter, No. 2, to the mayor, in which he says:
"I came here to reduce New Orleans to obedience to the laws,
and to vindicate the offended majesty of the Government. The
rights of persons and property shall be secured. I therefore demand the unqualified surrender of the city, and that the emblem
of sovereignty of the United States be hoisted upon the City
Hall, Mint, and Custom House, by meridian of this day. And
all emblems of sovereignty other than those of the United States
must be removed from all public buildings from that hour."
To this the mayor transmitted, on the same day, an answer, which he says "is the universal sense of my constituents,

no less than the prompting of my own heart." After announcing that "out of regard for the lives of the women and
children who crowd this metropolis," General Lovell had
evacuated it with his troops, and "restored to me the custody
of its power," he continues:
"The city is without the means of defence. To surrender
such a place were an idle and an unmeaning ceremony. The
place is yours by the power of brutal force, not by any choice or
consent of its inhabitants. As to hoisting any flag other than the
flag of our own adoption and allegiance, let me say to you that the
man lives not in our midst whose hand and heart would not be paralyzed at the mere thought of such an act; nor can Ifind in my entire
constituency so wretched and desperate a renegade as would dare to
profane with his hand the sacred emblem of our aspirations.....
Your occupying the city does not tranffrr adlegiancefrom the govern-

262

THE VENICE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

inent of their choice to one which they have deliberately repudiated,
and they yield the obedience which the conqueror is entitled to
extort from the conquered."
At 6 A. M. of the 27th; the National flag was hoisted,
under directions of Flag-officer Farragut, on the Mint,
which building lay under the guns of the Government fleet;
but at 10 A. M. of the same day an attempt to hoist it on
the Custom House was abandoned; "the excitement of the
crowd was so great that the mayor and councilmen thought
that it would produce a conflict and cause great loss of
life."
On the 29th, General Butler reports that he finds the city
under the dominion of the mob. "They have insulted," he
says, "our flag; torn it down with indignity .....
.I send
a marked copy of a New Orleans paper containing an applauding account of the outrage."
On the same day that General reported thus:
"1
The rebels have abandoned all their defensive works in and
around New Orleans, including Forts Pike and Wood on Lake
Pontchartrain, and Fort Livingston on Barataria Bay. They
have retired in the direction of Corinth, beyond Manchac Pass,
and abandoned everything in the river as far as Donaldsonville,
some seventy miles beyond New Orleans"
Transports conveying troops under General Butler reached
New Orleans on the 1st of May, and the actual occupation
of the city was begun. There was no armed resistance, but
there were constant exhibitions of a malignant spirit and
temper both by the people and the authorities. On the 2d
of May, the landing of trbops was completed, and on the 6th
a proclamation of General Butler, which had been prepared
and dated on the 1st, and printed on the 2d by some soldiers,
in an office seized for the purpose, was published in the
newspapers of the city. Some copies of the proclamation

Dec. 1864.]

TnE VENICE.
Statement of the case.

had been previously distributed to individual-, but it was
not made known generally until thus published.*

On this same 6th of May, Flag-officer Farragut made a
report to the Government confirming a previous account of
his, and stating the arrival of General Butler, on the 29th of
April, at New Orleans; the recital of events terminating
with the hauling down of the Louisiana State flag fiom th6
City Hall, and the hoisting of the American flag on the
Custom House on that day, the report closing with this
statement:
"Thus, sir, I have endeavored to give you an account of my
attack upon New Orleans from our first movement to the sur* See the work entitled "IGeneral Butler in New Orleans," by Parton:
New York, 1864; pp. 182-1.

Tim VmNicE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
render of the city to General Butler, whose troops are NOW mn full
occupation."
The proclamation above referred to declared the city to be
under martial law, and announced the principles by which
the commanding general would be guided in its administration. One clause is in these words:
"All the rights of property of whatever kind will be held inviolate, subject only to the laws of the United States.'
The other is thus expressed:
"All foreigners not naturalized, claiming allegiance to their
respective governments, and not having made oath of allegiance
to the government of the Confederate States, will be protected
in their persons and property as heretofore under the laws of
the United States."
From whatever date the city was held in subjection, it
was so held only by severe discipline; and both it and the
region around it was largely hostile. The rebel army was
hovering in the neighborhood.
Such were the facts. But to understand the arguments
in the case, it is necessary to make mention of certain acts
of Congress, proclamations, &c., as follows:
Congress, by act of July 13, 1861,* made it lawful for the
President, by proclamation, to declare the inhabitants of any
State, or section of it, where insurrection existed, in a state
of insurrection against the United States: and "thereupon,"
the statute proceeds:
"All commercial intercourse by and between the same and
the citizens thereof and the citizens of the rest of the United
States shall cease, anai ne unlawful so long as such condition of
hostility shall continue; and all goods and chattels, wares and
merchandise, coming from said State or section into the other
parts of the United States, and all proceeding to such State or
section by land or water, shall, together with the vessel or
* 3 5; 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

Dec. 1864.]

THE. VENICE.
Statement of the case.

vehicle conveying the same, be forfeited to the United States.
Provided, that the President may in his discretion license and
permit commercial intercourse, &c., as he in his discretion may
think most conducive to the public welfare," &c.
The statute enacts also :*

"That . . . any ship or vessel belonging in whole or in part
to any citizen or inhabitant of said State, or part of a State,
whose inhabitants are so declared in a state of insurrection,
found at sea or in any part of the United States, shall be forfeited to the United States."
In pursuance of the authority given by this act, the President, by proclamation of 16th August, 1862,t did declare
"Louisiana"-along with several other Southern States-in
a state of insurrection against the United States, with interdiction of commerce; excepting, however, the inhabitants
of such States "as may maintain a legal adhesion to the
Union and the Constitution, or may be from time to time occupied and controlled by forces of the United States engaged in the
dispersion of the said insurgents."
By a subsequent proclamation,t reciting that experience
had shown that the exceptions made as above, embarrassed
the execution of the act of July 13,1861 (already mentioned),
they were revoked, and the inhabitants of several States, iiieluding "Louisiana," "except the ports of New Orleans,
&c.," were declared "in a state of insurrection," &c., and all
commercial intercourse not licensed, &c., declared unlawful,
"until such insurrection shall cease or be suppressed, and
notice thereof has been duly given by proclamation."
On the 12th May, 1862,-that is to say two days before
the capture,-the President issued his proclamation, reciting
that "as the blockade of the same ports may now safely be
relaxed with advantage to the interests of commerce," therefore he declared that the blockade of the port of New
I

6; 12 Stat. at Large, 257.
31 March, 1863; 13 Stat. at Large.

I Id. 1262.

TimE

VENICE.

[Stil. (CI

Argument for the Government.

Orleans, shall so far cease and determine from and after the
1st day of Jne, 1862, that commercial intercourse with it
might be carried on except as to persons, things, and information contraband of war.
The question now before this court, on the appeal, was,
whether upon the state of facts above presented, the cotton
had been properly restored.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Ashton, and Mr. -Eames,for
the appellant:
I. Cooke having been permanently established in INew
Orleans, and having had uninterrupted commercial and personal domicile there, for ten years previous to the capture,
without having either property or residence, actual or constructive, anywhere else, or even any purpose of abandoning
his domicile or business at that city, was an enemy, and his
property was liable to confiscation if Neiv Orleans, when the
capture of the property was effected, was enemy territory.*
H. Was New Orleans then enemies' territory? Were her
people enemies of the United States? That is the question
now for this court.
1. In adjudicating the public status, at any particular point
of time, of territory within a State once involved in the
general hostile relation, the court will follow the acts and
declarations, touching and respecting such territory, of the
political department of the Government. It can do nothing
else. The Government is waging war against organized hostile bodies of men, who assert that they act under the authority of the government of "sovereign States," and who
are contending for an alleged right of exclusive jurisdiction
and control over the whole extent of territory embraced by
such States. The duty of the political power is to pursue
the struggle until the rebel organization is destroyed, and
the supremacy of the Government is everywhere re-established. But who is to judge where and when the power of
The Indian Chief, 3 Robinson, 18; The GErasimo, 11 Moore's P. C.
96 The Venus, 8 Cranch, 280.

Dec. 1864.]

TniE VENW E.
Argument for the Government.

the enemy has been so broken as that, with safety to the
whole cause, the people and property once subject to hostile
control may be released from the law of war, and restored
to their rights under the Government? The "line of insurgent bayonets," as Grier, J., denominates it,* forced back today, may advance to-morrow. Who but the President,
whose duty it is to plant the standard.of the nation on this
hostile soil, can know what measures of war may serve to
keep that standard fixed where it may once be planted?
Now, on the 14th, of May, the date of this capture, New
Orleans was, indeed, in the possession of the United States,
but the claim of the defacto power, which had been dispo.
sessed, was still actively asserted. Every part of the case,-the language of the chief municipal officer of New Orleans,
who declared that he would surrender nothing; that the
people would not transfer their allegiance "from the government of their choice to one which they have deliberately repudiated;" the "applauded" insult to the flag of the Union;
in short, the whole history,-shows defiance and malignity.
There is nothing like it in the history of any conquered city
whatever. Among our own cities, most, like Savannah, have
submitted with grace. In the city was the whole of the late
city corporation, hundreds of so-called "citizens,"-foreign
adventurers, many of them, who had risked all that they had
or hoped for in the success of their own rebellion,-all ready
to consign the city to the traitor Lovell and his army. That
army, on the day of this capture, was still in array at the
gates of the city, and was there asserting its right to exclude
the United States fr-om that soil. Indeed, the enemy's army
has never, to this day, been, driven from Louisiana. There
was no certainty that General Butler could hold possession
even if he had it firmly; which, on the day of this capture,
he had not. General Banks, in the same State, at a later
day, after having been fully in possession on the Red River,
was compelled to retire, and the district went right back to
the enemy's control This is matter of history; a history
* 2 Black, 647.

ThE,

VENICE.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the Government.

which will make the basis of a decision at this term in this
court.*

The right of maritime capture was exercisable by the
United States after the occupation of the city, not only to
promote the complete establishment of its power there, but
also with reference to the contingency of its forces being
driven from their position, and the city again being subjected to the enemy's power. The duty of the President, in
view of this possible event, was to destroy the trade, and
diminish the wealth of the place in every way sanctioned by
the law of nations.
2. This view of the relations of the executive department
to the judicial, or of the judicial to it, in these hostilities,
would be well founded and conclusive, even if the President
stood upon his ordinary constitutional power. But during
this rebellion he wields as well the power conferred by a
great national ordinance. The statute of July 13, 1861, authorizes him to interdict all trade and intercourse between
all the inhabitants of States in insurrection and the rest of
the United States; to subject vessels and cargo to capture
and condemnation; and to direct the capture of any vessel
belonging in whole or in part to any inhabitant of a State
whose inhabitants are in insurrection.
Under this statute, also, the Executive alone has power to
determine whether the condition of hostility, which Congress has imposed upon certain States, has or has not in any
place ceased to exist; and that determination of the Executive, it must, in every case, be the constitutional duty of the
judiciary to carry by its judgments into legal effect.
3. Now, the President's proclamation of the 12th of May,
1862, declares that the blockade of New Orleans should thereafter continue to be maintained in full force until the first of
the ensuing June. This was but two days before the capture
of the Venice. The President's proclamation of a blockade,
,aid Grier, J., speaking in the Prize Cases for this court, is
" official and conclusive evidence to the court that a state of war
* See infra, Mrs. Alexander's cotton, p.

THE V .NicE.

Dec. 1864.]

Argument for the Government.

existed at its date, which demanded and authorized a recourse to such a measure, under the circumstances, peculiar
to the case."* His Honor was speaking, it is true, of the
proclamation of a general blockade made by the President
at the outbreak of the war; but both the terms and spirit
of his observation apply to the blockade specially at New
Orleans. This proclamation, then, on the 12th of May, 1862,
declares to all the world that the President, while fulfilling
his duties as Commander-in-chief in suppressing rebellion
in New Orleans, after militaryoccupation of the city was achieved,
had continued to meet with such measure of hostile resistance, that until the 1st of June he should continue to need a
blockade to aid him in the work wherewith he was intrusted
by the Constitution; that the crisis demanded, till that date,
such force as the law of war justifies and sanctions only when
employed against enemies and the territory of enemies.
4. But independently of arguments peculiar to the present
rebellion, what is the effect, by PUBLIC LAW, of the reduction
and occupation during war of a portion of the enemy's territory, under circumstances similar to those that attended
the reduction and occupation of New Orleans?
.Elphinstonev. Bedreechund, in the British Privy Council,t
is in point. In that case, a British Provisional Government
in the East had seized, on the 17th of July, 1818, at Poonah,
then recently captured from the natives by the British, a
large amount of treasure of an Eastern prince. At the time
of the seizure, the city had been eight months in the undisturbed
possession of the municipal government; and even courts of justice, under the authority of that government, were sitting in
it for the administration of justice. No disturbance had
taken place in Poonah itself after it was captured, nor were
any actual hostilities carried on in its immediate neighborhood; the headquarters of the British major-general had
been, in fact, forty-two miles away. The whole country,
however, was in a disturbed state. Poonah was greatly disaffected. "The enemy were dispersed, but not subdued."
* 2 Black, 670.

f 1 Knapp, 316

Tim,

VrN ICE.

[Sill. Ct.

Argument for the Government.

Poonah was kept in order only by letting every one see that
there was an overwhelming force on account of their being
a disaffected population, and the fact of one government
having been overturned and another set up, and the character of the people being turbulent. Proclamations, too,
had been issued at Poonah as at New Orleans. The case
was much like ours. The question in the suit was one of
jurisdiction, i. e. whether the case belonged to the civil or
to the military courts ? This depended on the nature of the
seizure, whether it was what is technically called a "hostile"
seizure, or not. Very able counsel, Sir Thomas Denman
and others, contended, as the other side would contend here.
Speaking of the nature of the war, and the proclamation
which had been made, they say:
"It is a war of conquest and annexation, and its sole and
avowed object was to place the principality under the dominion
of the East India Company. From the moment the proclamation was issued, every part of the country that was conquered
became, at the time of its conquest, part and parcel of its dominion and of the crown. On the 16th of November, 1817, the
capital was taken possession of by us, and has ever since remained in our possession. It is said that the country was unsettled, or in a state of passage from one settlement to another.
Such a state is unknown to our laws. A country must either be
in a state of war or a state of peace; although it is sometimes
difficult to define the actual boundaries between them. The distinction between the day and the night is perfectly clear, but
who can ascertain the exact point where one ends and the other
begins. It cannot be disputed that in point of fact, at least,
Poonah was perfectly subdued and tranquil."
But Sir Edward Sugden, then solicitor-general, arguing
La support of the seizure, thus gives the answer:
"No country can ever be thoroughly brought under subjection
if it is to be held that where there has been a conquest and no
capitulation, the mere publication of a proclamation desiring the
people to be quiet, and telling them what means would be re

bee. 1804%.J

TIM, VE.,icm.

271

Argumcnt for the Government.

sorted to if they-did not, so far reduces the country under the
civil rule that the army loses its control, and the municipal
courts acquire altogether jurisdiction."
Of this view Was the Privy Council, which, through Lord
Tenterden, declared that " the proper character of the transaction was that of a hostile seizure made, if notflagrante,yet
pnzdum cessante bello," and judgment went accordingly.
The result of the British prize adjudications on this point
is, that where the question is as to the national character of
a place in an enemy's country, it is not sufficient to show,
that possession or occupation of the place was taken, and
that, at the time in question, the captor was in control. It
must be shown, either that the possession was given in pursuance of a capitulation, the terms of which contemplated a
change of national character, or that the possession was subsequently confirmed by a formal cession or by a long lapse
of time.*
II. Is the property, then, relieved from liability to confiscation by General Butler's proclamation?
It will be contended that this proclamation is, in effect, a
convention between the Government and the rebels.
1. But General Butler was without authority to make any
such convention. "To exempt the property of enemies from
the effects of hostilities," says Lord Stowellt "is a very high
act of sovereign authority. If at any time delegated to persons in a subordinate station, it must be exercised either by
those who have special commissions granted to them for the
particular business, or by persons in whom such a power is
vested by virtue of any situation to which it may be considered incidental." The office of General Butler, after th,
* The Negotie en Zeevaart, in the House of Lords, July 18, 1782; cited
in The Danekebar, C. Robinson, 111; The Boletta, Edwards, 174; The
Edel Catharina, 1 Dobson, 66; The Dart and Happy Couple, in the House
of Lords, 17 March, 1805; cited in The Manilla, Edwards, 3; The Gerasimo, 11 Moore's :Privy Council, 101.
t The Hope, 1 Dodson, 227; see also the Elsebee, 5 Robinson, 173;'or
J55 Amerjcan editiou of 1807.

THE VENICE.

[Sup (t.

Argument for the Government.

reduction of the city, was to devise and execute measures for
the preservation of the peace in the city. The power of setting
aside the law of war, of defeating the right of capture given
by that law, as well as by statute, to the naval vessels of the
nation, and of repealing, in effect, all grants of prize interest,
were not powers incidental to the situation and office of a
commander of land forces in occupation of an enemy's city.
2. Even if General Butler possessed sufficient authority to
give the exemption claimed, he did not by the proclamation,
rightly interpreted, attempt to exercise it as respected ships
and cargo afloat. Ships and cargo afloat do not come under
such expressions as he used. This is settled law. The case
of the Ships taken at Genoa is in point.* In that case one oi
the articles gave the inhabitants permission "to withdraw
themselves, their money, merchandise, movables, or effects, by
sea or land," and another stipulated for "freedom of trade."
On a question of seizure, it was contended that on these
articles the intention of the parties was plain to exempt the
shipping from seizure, and that it would be nugatory to grant
"freedom of trade," and at the same time seize the vehicles
in which trade was carried on. Sir William Scott, however,
says:
"If the court was to abstract itself from the consideration of
what has usually been understood and done, the terms-' themselves, their money, movables, and effects'-are perhaps large
enough to admit this interpretation; although it is an acknowledged rule, that ships-themselves being property of a peculiar
species-do not necessarily pass under such a description. It is
impossible not to refer to the practice of commanders of other
fortunate expeditions, by whom a broad distinction has usually
been taken between property afloat and property on land."
And with respect to the argument made from the expression "freedom of trade," he remarks:
"To this observation I can only say that nugatory as such a
clause might be, it is every day's practice to seize all property
* 4 Robinson, 388.

Dec. 1864.]

Tjir

V'ENICB.

Opinion of the court.

afloat, and yet to allow a general 'freedom of trade,' exclusive
of such particular seizure."
8. General Butler's proclamation did, in fact, but express
%n intention to protect the persons named from the army of
the United States, for which alone he had authority to speak.
4. The idea of protection, considered with reference to a
vessel in the situation of the Venice, involves nothing, if not
ability to sail on the seas without molestation. But up to
the 12th of May, 1862, the blockade of New Orleans was in
full force and effectually maintained. It so remained, in fact,
till June. General Butler possessed no power to license any
vessel to violate the blockade; and yet, what avail was a
guaranty of protection to this vessel and cargo, unless they
would have been permitted to sail on any destination out of
the port of New Orleans?
The Government, therefore, has not only not ratified or
confirmed in any way the supposed action of General Butler, but it has, by the proclamation of May 12, 1862, repudiated whatever act of his is susceptible of the interpretation
contended for by the claimant.
IV. Even if the neutral character of the claimant be sustained, the vessel and cargo must be condemned. In a
blockaded port, Cooke bought from the enemy an enemy
commercial vessel, and then loaded her during the blockade,
with property purchased from the enemy, in the enemy
country.*
Messrs. 1everdy Johnson and Gillet, contra, for the clainant
Cooke.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes before us upon appeal fi-om a decree of
the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Florida.
The schooner Venice, with a cargo of two hundred and
* The General Hamilton, 6 Robinson, 61 ; The Vigilantia, 6 id. 124; The
Potsdam, 4 id. 89; The Negotie en Zeevaart. I id. 111, et cas. it.
VOL. II.
18

274

TnE VENICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

twenty-five bales of cotton, was captured in Lake Pontchar
train by the United States ship-of-war Calhoun, on the 15tb
of May, 1862; w as taken to Key West; was libelled as prize
of war in the District Court; and was restored with her
cargo, to the claimant, David G. Cooke, by its decree. The
United States appealed. The claimant, Cooke, was a British
subject, but had resided in New Orleans nearly all the time
for ten years preceding the capture. He was a clerk in a
large mercantile establishment until June, 1861, when the
firm closed its affairs, and he turned his attention to other
business, particularly to the collection of planters' acceptances which he had purchased, and to the investment of
their proceeds in cotton. Early in April, 1862, he bought
two hundred and five bales in Mississippi; and had them
brought to New Orleans, where he purchased the Venice on
the 9th of April. Finding that the two hundred and five
bales would not fully complete the lading of the schooner,
Cooke bought twenty bales more about the 12th of April.
The whole was put on board with as little delay as possible,
and on the 17th of April, the schooner was towed out into
Lake Pontchartrain, and taken to the head of the lake, where
she was anchored, and remained, with only such change of
position as was necessary to obtain a supply of water, until
the capture. In the meantime the vessel was undergoing
repairs.
While these transactions were in progress, the war was
flagrant. The States of Louisiana and Mississippi were
wholly under rebel dominion, and all the people of each
State were enemies of the United States. The rule which
declares that war makes all the citizens or subjects of one
belligerent enemies of the Government and of all the citizens or subjects of the other, applies equally to civil and to
international wars.* Either belligerent may modify or limit
its operation as to persons or territory of the other; but in
the absence of such modification or restriction judicial
tribunals cannot discriminate in its application.
* Pri7A Cases
0387_9

2 Black, 666; -oncurred in lv dissenting Justices, Id

Dec. 1864.]

THaE VENicE.

Opinion of the court.

TLe vessel and the cotton at the time of purchase belonged
to citizens either of Mississippi or Louisiana, and was therefore enemies' property.
Did the transfer to Cooke change the character in this
respect of both or either?
Cooke was a British subject, but was identified with the
people of Louisiana by long voluntary residence and by the
relations of active business.* Upon the breaking out of the
war, he might have left the State and withdrawn his means;
but he did not think fit to do so. He remained more than
a year, engaged in commercial transactions. Like many
others, he seems to have thought that, as a neutral, he could
share the business of the enemies of the nation, and enjoy its
profits, without incurring the responsibilities of an enemy.
He was mistaken. He chose his relations, and must abide
their results. The ship and cargo were as liable to seizure
as prize in his ownership, as they would be in that of any
citizen in Louisiana, residing in New Orleans, and not actually engaged in active hostilities against the Union.
This brings us to the consideration of the events which
transpired at New Orleans, and in its vicinity, very soon
after the Venice was taken into Lake Pontchartrain.
The fleet of the United States, under command of Flagofficer, now Vice-Admiral, Farragut, reached New Orleans
on the 25th of April, and the flag-officer demanded the surrender of the city, and required the authorities to display the
flag of the Union from the public buildings. The mayor
refused to surrender and refused to raise the National Flag,
but declared the city undefended and at the mercy of the
victors. The flag-officer then directed the flag to be raised
upon the Mint. It was raised accordingly, but was torn
down on the same or the next day. The flag of the rebellion
still floated over the hall where the city authorities transacted
business. On the 29th, the Union flag was raised again,
both on the Custom House and Mint, and was not again
disturbed. On the 30th, the flag-officer received from the
* Prize Cases, 2 Black, 674.

276

TnE VENICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mayor a note so offensive in its character, that all communi.
cation was broken off.* The power of the United States to
destroy the city was ample and at hand, but there was no
surrender and no actual possession.
The transports conveying the troops under the command
of Major-General Butler, commanding the Department of
the Gulf, arrived on the 1st of May, and the actual occupation of the city was begun. There was no armed resistance,
but abundant manifestations of hostile spirit and temper
both by the people and the authorities. The landing of the
troops was completed on the 2d of May, and on the 6th a
proclamation of General Butler, which had been prepared
and dated on the 1st, and the next day printed by some
soldiers, in an office seized for the purpose, was published
in the newspapers of the city. Some copies of the proclamation had been previously distributed to individuals, but it
was not made known to the population generally until thus
published. There was no hostile demonstration, and no disturbance afterwards; and we think that the military occupation of the city of New Orleans may be considered as substantially complete from the date of this publication; and
that all the rights and obligations resulting from such occupation, or from the terms of the proclamation, may be
properly regarded as existing from that time.
This proclamation declared the city to be under martial
law, and announced the principles by which the commanding general would be guided in its administration. Two
clauses only have any important relation to the case before
us. One is in these words: "All the rights of property, of
whatever kind, will be held inviolate, subject only to the
laws of the United States." The other is thus expressed:
"All foreigners, not naturalized, claiming allegiance to their
respective governments, and not having made oath of allegiance to the government of the Confederate States, will be
protected in their .persons and property as heretofore under
the laws of the United States." These clauses only reite.
* Message and Pocuments, 1862-63. part 8, pp 28-288

Dec. 1864.]

THE VENICE.
Opinion of the court.

rated the rules established by the legislative and executive
action of the national Government, in respect to the portions of the States in insurrection, occupied and controlled
by the troops of the Union.
The fifth section of the act of July 18th, 1861, providing
for the collection of duties, and for other purposes, provided
that, under certain conditions, the President, by proclamation, might declare the inhabitants of a State, or any section
or part thereof, to be in a state of insurrection against the
United States. In pursuance of this act, the President, on
the 16th of August following, issued a proclamation declaring that the inhabitants of the States of Virginia, North
Carolina, Tennessee, Arkansas, and the other States south
of these, except the inhabitants of Virginia west of the Alleghanies, and of those parts of States maintaining a loyal
adhesion to the Union and the Constitution, "or from time
to time occupied and controlled by forces of the United
States, engaged in the dispersion of the insurgents," were in
a state of insurrection against the United States.
This legislative and executive action related, indeed,
mainly to trade and intercourse between the inhabitants of
loyal and the inhabitants of insurgent parts of the country;
but, by excepting districts occupied and controlled by national troops from the general prohibition of trade, it indicated the policy of the Government not to regard such districts as in actual insurrection, or their inhabitants as subject,
in most respects, to treatment as enemies. Military occupation and control, to work this exception, must be actual;
that is to say, not illusory, not imperfect, not transient; but
substantial, complete, and permanent. Being such, it draws
after it the full measure of protection. to persons and property consistent with a necessary subjection to military government. It does not, indeed, restore peace, or, in all respects, former relations; but it replaces rebel by national
authority, and recognizes, to some extent, the coLditions
and the responsibilities of national citizenship.
The regulations of trade made under the- act of 1861 were
framed in accordance with this policy. As far as possible

THE VENICE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the people of such parts of the insurgent States as came
under national occupation and control, were treated as if
their relations to the national G3overnment had never been
interrupted.
It is true that the general exception from the prohibition
of commercial intercourse, which has just been mentioned,
was cancelled and revoked by the President's proclamation
of the 31st of March, 1863, and, instead of it, a particular
exception made of West Virginia, and of the ports of iNew
Orleans, Key West, Port Royal, and Beaufort, in iNorth
Carolina. But this revocation merely brought all parts of
insurgent States under the special licensing power of the
President, conferred by the act of July 13, 1861. It affected,
in no respect, the general principles of protection to rights
and property under temporary government, established after
the restoration of the national authority.
The same policy may be inferred from the conduct of the
war. Wherever the national troops have re-established order
under national rule, the rights of persons and of property
have been, in general, respected and enforced. When Flagofficer Farragut, in his first letter to the rebel mayor of New
Orleans, demanded the surrender of the city, and promised
security to persons and property, he expressed the general
policy of the Government. So, also, when Major-General
Butler published his proclamation and repeated the same
assurance, and made a distinct pledge to neutrals, he made
no declaration which was not fully warranted by that policy.
There was no capitulation. Nqeither the assurance nor the
pledge was given as condition of surrender. Both were the
manifestation of a general purpose which seeks the re-establishment of the national authority, and the ultimate restoration of States and citizens to their national relations, under
better forms and firmer guaranties, without any views of
subjugation by conquest. Hence, the proclamation of the
commanding general at New Orleans must not be interpreted by such rules as governed the case of the Ships taken
at Genoa. * Vessels and their cargoes belonging to citizens
* 4 Robinson, 387.

Dec. 1864.]

PICO V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

of New Orleans, or neutrals residing there, and not affected
by any attempts to run the blockade, or by any act of hastility against the United States after the publication of the
proclamation, must be regarded as protected by its terms.
It results from this reasoning that the Venice and her
cargo, though undoubtedly enemies' property at the time
she was anchored in Lake Pontchartrain, cannot be regarded
as remaining such after the 6th of May; for it is not asserted
that any breach of blockade was ever thought of by the
claimant, or that he was guilty of any actual hostility against
the national Government.
It is hardly necessary to add that nothing, in this opinion,
touches the liability of persons for crimes or of property to
seizure and condemnation under any act of Congress.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
[See supra, p. 185, The Crcassian; a case, in some senses, suppletory or
complemental to the present one.]

PICO

V. UNITED STATES.

When a claim to land in California is asserted as derived through the Mexican Land System, the absence from the archives of the country, of evidence supporting the alleged grant, creates a presumption against the
validity of such a grant so strong that it can be overcome, if at all,
only by the clearest proof of its genuineness, accompanied by open and
continued possession of the premises.
APPEAL by Andres Pico from the decree of the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California, the case being as follows:
Pico claimed a tract of land in California, to the extent
of eleven square leagues, under a grant alleged to have been
issued ta him on the 6th of June, 1846, by Pio Pico, then
Mexican Governor of the department. In 1852 he presented
a petition, for the confirmation of his claim, to the Board of

Oommi!iiouers to ascertain and settle land titles in Califor.

