RAILROAD COMPANY

V. SOUTTER.

Esup. Ct.

Syllabus.

these fees shall be allowed "to witnesses and jurors who
may be lawfully summoned." It would be a very forced
construction of this provision, as well as unjust, to hold that
this lawfulness depends upon any other fact than the regular
service of the summons by a lawful officer. The jurors and
witnesses are compelled, when thus summoned, to obey the
writ. They have no right to consider whether the summons
issued on a proper state of facts as they might appear to the
coroner, nor the means of deciding it, if they had the right.
When witnesses and jurors thus summoned actually attend,
they are entitled to their fees. It can make no difference in
the justice or legality of the claims whether they are presented by the witnesses and jurors to the Levy Court, or
whether they are first paid by the coroner and presented by
him. He loses enough by his mistake in judgment, when
he is refused compensation for his Own services, without
being compelled to lose what he has advanced for the public
service.
We discover no error in the record, and the judgment of
the Circuit Court is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

MfILWAUKIE AND MINNESOTA RAILROAD COMPANY AND
FLEMING, APPELLANTS, V. SOUTTER, SURVIVOR.

1. Though a court below is bound to follow the instructions given to it by a
mandate from this, yet where a mandate has plainly been framed, as
regards a minor point, on a supposition which is proved by the subsequent course of things to be without base, the mandate must not be so
followed as to work manifest injustice. On the contrary, it must be
construed otherwise, and reasonably.
2. The appointment or discharge of a receiver is ordinarily matter resting
wholly within the discretion of the court below. But it is not always
and absolutely so.
Thus, where there is a proceeding to foreclose a mortgage given by a
railroad corporation on its road, &c.-along and actively worked roadka sort of property to a control of which a receiver ought not to be appointed at all, except from necessity), and the amount due on the mortgage is a matter still unsettled and fiercely contested, the appointment

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.
Statement of the case.

or discharge of a receiver is matter belonging to ithe discretion- 6f Itbe
court in which the litigation is pending.
But when the amount due has been passed on and finally fixed by this
court, and the right of 'the mortgagor to pay the sum thus settled and
fixed is clear, the court below has then no discretion to withhold such
restoration; and a refusal to discharge the receiver is judicial error,
which this court may correct, supposing the matter (not itself one in
the nature of a final decree) to be in any way fairly before it otherwise.
If other parties in the case set up claims on the road, which they look to
the receiver to, provide for and protect, these, other claims being disputed, and, in reference to the main concerns of the road, small,-this
court will not the less exercise its power of discharge. It will exercise
it, however, under conditions, such as that of the company's giving
security to pay those other claims, if established as liens.

BRON sON and Soutter hdfiled a bill in the Circuit Court

for Wisconsin, against the La Ckosse and lkXilwaukie Railroad
Company, to foreclose a mortgage given by the said company to them to secure bonds to the extent of one million
of dollars, which that company had put into circulation, and
the interest to a large amount on which was due and unpaid. 'To this bill the .Milwaulkie and Minnesota Railroad
Company-a company which, on a sale ,under a mortgage
junior to that of Bronson and' Soutter, was organized, and
became, under the laws of Wisconsin, successor in title and
interest to the La arosse and Milwaukie Company, and also
three other persons, one named Sebre loward-were made
or became defendants, and opposed the prayer for foreclosure. They alleged that the bonds which the mortgage to
Bronson and Soutter had been given to secure,, had been
sold, transferred or negotiated at, grossly inadequate prices,
fraudulently in fact, and were not held for full value by these
persons, who sought by the foreclosure to recover their par.
The court below, being of this opinion, gave a decree i,
that suit to the extent of but fifty cents on the dollar.
Coming here by appeal at the last term,* the ,decree, after
an animated, protracted, and very able argument in support
of it by Mr. Carpenter, in behalf of numerous parties interested,- was reversed, and a decree ordered to be entered
* See sump'a, page 283.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

below for the full amount, cent for cent.* The suit, at the
time of the decree here, had been pending for four years,
The mandate from this court ran thus:

"It is ordered that this cause be remanded to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, with
directions to enter a decree for all the interest due and secured
by the mortgage, with costs; that the court ascertainthe amount
of moneys in the hands of the receiver or receiversfrom the earnings
of the road covered by the mortgage, which may be applicable to the
discharge of the interest, and apply it to the same; and that ifthe
moneys thus applied are not sufficient to discharge the interest
due on the first day of March, 1864, then to ascertain the balance
remaining due at that date. And incase such balance is not paid
within one year from the date of the order of the court ascertaining it, then an order shall be entered directing a sale of the
mortgaged premises."
Upon the filing of this mandate in the court below, the
receiver was ordered to make report of the funds in his
hands; from which it appeared that he had some $50,000 to
$60,000 applicable to the payment of the interest on the
bonds in suit.
The Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company, who,
as already stated, was an incumbrancer on the road, junior
to Bronson and Soutter, insisted that instead of this small
amount, there was really, or ought to be, in the receiver's
hands, between $300,000 and $400,000 applicable to the payment of interest; and asked an order of reference to a master, with instructions to hear testimony, and ascertain and
report on this claim. The court made the order, and postponed further action in the case, until the succeeding term
in September. At that term it was ascertained that the
master would be unable to report on the complicated accounts of the receiver, involving several millions of dollars;
and the receiver was again ordered to report the funds actually in his hands. From this second report, it appeared,
* See supra, page 312.

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. SOITTER.

518

Statement of the case.

that he had no money properly applicable to the payment
of the debt of Bronson and Soutter, and thereupon the court
proceeded to ascertain the amount of interest due on the
bonds secured by their mortgage, and entered a decree accordingly, giving the defendant a year to pay it, before a
sale of the mortgaged premises.
From this decree the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad
Company, the already mentioned successors in title and interest to the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company,
appealed; the first ground assigned for their appeal being
that the decree was a departure from the mandate of the
court, because such decree should not have been rendered
until the accounts of the receiver were adjusted, and it was judicially ascertainedhow much of the millions he had received ought
now to be applied to the payment of complainants' interest.
But another matter was now presented here.
At the first term of the court below, after the mandate
was filed, the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company
proposed to pay all the interest due on the mortgage of
Bronson and Soutter, on condition that an order should be
made, discharging the receiver, and placing the road and its
appurtenances in the possession of them, the Milwaukie
Company, just named. Upon the hearing of this petition,
the judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion, and
the application so, necessarily, refused.
The amount of Bronson and Soutter's debt, above mentioned, exclusive of interest, which the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company proposed to pay, was one million
of dollars; and this, added to twelve hundred thousand dollars of prior mortgages, made two millions two hundred
thousand dollars, which the road and its appurtenances
would have to be worth, in order to secure the debt of
Bronson and Soutter. The road on which the mortgage
was a lien is ninety-five miles, and runs from Milwaukie to
Portage, besides the depots, rolling stock, and other appurtenances belonging to it. It was in good condition. It
constitutes a part of the direct line from Milwaulde to the
VOL. I.

83

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. O

Statement of the case.

Mississippi, and is one of the valuable railroads of the United
States. The gross earnings from this ninety-five miles for
the year preceding the application to discharge the receiver,
as shown by his reports, were about eight hundred thousand
dollars; though the reports showed a large falling off in the
receiver's receipts of later time.
In addition to the opposition made to this motion by
Bronson and Soutter, it was opposed by one Sebre Howard,
who, with the Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company,
had been a defendant to their bill, and on whose motion the
receiver had been appointed. Howard objected to the discharge, because, as alleged, he had a judgment of $16,000
against the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company,
which he asserted to be a lien on the road; though whether
it was so or not, depended on some questions of fact and
law, not perhaps quite clear. This court, assuming a certain
state of facts, decided that he had; but it was said that facts
had not been well explained to the court.
One Selah Chamberlain, too, opposed it; objecting to the
discharge of the receiver, and particularly to delivering the
property into possession of appellants, because, as he asserted, he himself was holder of a lien of over $700,000 in
the road, and because that lien, according to his view, was
secured by a lease which entitled him to the possession of
the road. This same Chamberlain had been in possession
under his lease for some time prior to the appointment of
the receiver, under a contract with the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, by which he bound himself to
keep down the interest on the various mortgages on the
road, including the one on which Bronson and Soutter had
filed their bill. This he had failed to do, and he had actually
abandoned the possession to the Milwaukie and Minnesota
Company, who were in possession at the time the receiver
was appointed. His judgment on a suit by the complainants
had been assailed, and as it seemed, though counsel denied
this view, declared to be fraudulent and void, by a decree of
the District Court of the United States; but that question
was not finally determined.

Dec.

1864.]

515

RAILROAD COMPA:;Y V. SOUTTER.
Statement of the case.

A third railroad company, called the Milwaukie and St.
Paul Company, a rival company of the Milwaukie and Minnesota, wh( se relation to it will appear in the diagram
below, also opposed the discharge.

-e..
****v'
?z

0

"

aHe
I,

I,.I..S........

i

wa

61))

This company was an organization created after the litigation already mentioned, as brought about by the proceedings
of Bronson and Soutter to foreclose their mortgage, had
commenced. It was no party to preceding suits. It owned
the western end of the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad;
that is to say, the road from Portage to La Crosse (one
hundred and five miles), and was organized for the purpose
of working a road, as its name imports, from Milwaukie to
St. Paul; of course, the ownership and control of an eastern
end was indispensable to the purpose. This company had
procured, in June, 1863, an order from the District Court,
that the receiver should deliver to them the eastern end of
this road, and all its appurtenances, and they had used them
from that day. This court, however, subsequently declared
the proceeding of the District Court to have been without

516

RAILROAD COMPANY

V'. SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

jurisdiction, and the order a usurpation of authority.* The
interest of this third company was, of course, of a strong
character, for the necessities of their situation required that
they should own an eastern end of the road, to complete
their line from Milwaukie, one great terminus of the road
to St. Paul.
Mr. Carpenter, for the appellants.
1. The proceedings had in the court below, by which the
amount due on the bonds secured by the mortgage to Bronson and Soutter was ascertained and a decree entered, was
not according to the direction of the mandate. The decree,
indeed, gave the year to pay; but this, and all else that was
done, was ordered before and without ascertaining what sum
was in the receiver's hands. Now, the authority of the inferior court extends only to executing the mandate sent it.
They cannot vary it, or give any other or further relief.t
Under that mandate the court was bound "to ascertain the
amount of moneys in the hands of the receiver," and its authority to order a sale arose only "IF" the amount was not
sufficient to discharge the interest.
2. The appellants complain of the denial of their petition
to the Circuit Court, since the cause was remanded, for leave
to pay into court all the money due the complainants in this
cause, and for possession of the mortgaged premises.
It is admitted that this order is not such as might be appealed from before a final decree. But, when an appeal is
properly taken from a final decree, as it has been decided
that the present one is,t the appellant may be relieved from
any interlocutory order or proceeding by which he is aggrieved. The continuance of the receivership until the final
decree, or until the amount due the complainants is paid
into court, is matter of discretion, and not reviewable here.
But after the amount due the complainant had been fixed
by a final decree, as that also has been in this court,ยง and
Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad Company, 1 Wallace, 405.
t Ex parte Dubuque and Pacific Railroad, Id. 69.
1 See supra, p. 440.
See =upra, p. 312.

Dec. 1864.] RAILROAD COMPANT V. SOUTTER.
Argument for the appellants.

the owner of the equity of redemption offered to pay that
amount into court, the discharge of the receiver was demandable as a matter of right; and its refusal was error,
which can be reviewed here.
The Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Company was
owner of the equity of redemption. As such, it had the
right to redeem all prior incumbrances, and the foreclosure
under which it was organized extinguished all liens of a date
subsequent to that of the mortgage, on the foreclosure of
which it came into existence. It was, therefore, entitled to
possession, unless some other person could show better right
thereto.
Howard's lien was declared by this court to be extinguished.* The language of the Supreme Court is this:
"1Now it appears that each of these judgments were recovered
after the date of the mortgage on the La Crosse and Milwaukie
Company, upon the foreclosure of which the ]Milwaukie and
Minnesota Company was formed. The liens of these judgments
were cut off by its fbreclosure; indeed, the judgment of Howard,
of November, 1858, and the last judgment of Graham and Scott,
which was recovered in 1860, never were liens upon any interest
in the road of the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company"
It will be said that this opinion was delivered under a
mistake of fact. Perhaps it was so, and perhaps, in a proper proceeding in his case, it may be found that Howard
has a valid subsisting lien; but, on this motion, we must
consider the presumption to be the other way, and act
accordingly.
Chamberlain's opposition demands more respect. He
claimed possession under his lease and judgment, which,
the case shows, had been vacated by the .decree of the District Court. This decree may be erroneous, but cannot be
questioned collaterally. It was rendered in a cause in which
the complainant, as a judgment creditor, sought to vacate
the lease and judgment.
* Supra, p. 804.

518

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the appellee.

The opposition of the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railroad
has no foundation except in selfish interest. The motives
of that company to keep the road out of the hands of its true
owners, and in the hands of a receiver, interested in his
commissions chiefly, are obvious when the topographical
position of the rival companies is seen. It is a case where
pecuniary motive is as strong as better reasons are weak.
Messrs. Cary and Carlisle, contra.
1. The mandate has been as well observed as in the nature
of the difficulties it could be. The obligation of an inferior
court to obey the order sent it, is not to be followed to the
extent of sacrificing the spirit of the order to its letter.
The denying the appellant's motion to have the receiver
pay the money in his hands into court, to discharge him,
and to hand the road over to the Milwaukie and Minnesota
Company, is so clearly a matter pertaining to the practice
of the court below, and so entirely within the discretion of
that court, that we have been surprised to hear counsel of
Mr. Carpenter's ability, and regard to what positions he asserts, insist upon his right to appeal from it. Such matters
must be left to discretion, if such a thing as discretion is to
exist in an inferior court at all. But if this court will consider a matter in which, from the nature of the case, we
think it has no good opportunity to form a judgment, then
we say that both the judgment of Howard and the claim of
Chamberlain should control the question. The receiver was
appointed on Howard's motion. This court has, indeed,
said* that his lien was discharged. Undoubtedly this idea
proceeds on a misapprehension of fact. Howard's judgment
in the State court against the La Crosse Company was recovered on the 1st day of May, 1858, and became a lienprior
to the mortgage under which the Milwaukie and Minnesota
Company sprung. This judgment was "sued over" in the
Federal court, and judgment obtained there November 28th,
1859; but the record, of course, discloses the original lien of
* Supra, p. 804.

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

519

Opinion of the court.

his judgment. The opinion of this court mentions the How
ard judgment in the Federal court, but makes no mention
of the judgment in the State court upon which the judgment of the Federal court was founded. Suing over in the
Federal court did not extinguish its lien.
Chamberlain or Howard-if anybody but the present receiver-should have the road. Chamberlain was a judgment creditor and a lessee of the road. Counsel insist that
the effect of that decree in the District Court was to vacate
and annul the judgment and lease as to all the world, and
that they are now of no force or effect, as between the
parties thereto. But such, we apprehend, is not the effect
in law. Tne effect of that decree was but to postpone the
lease to the judgment of another party. The Milwaukie
and Minnesota Company can claim no advantage from it.
The attack on the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railroad Company is gratuitous wholly. Legal rights are not to be denied
it, merely because the granting of those rights are necessary
to its interests and would greatly promote them. Yet this,
in effect, is the argument of the other side.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first ground assigned for the appeal is, that the decree
is a departure from the mandate of the court, because it
should not have been rendered until the accounts of the
receiver were adjusted, and it was judicially ascertained
how much of the millions he had received ought now to be
applied to the payment of complainants' interest coupons.
This construction of the mandate cannot be sustained.
The receiver is the officer of the court, and neither party is
responsible for his misfeasance or malfeasance, if any such
exists, and it was not, therefore, reasonable that complainants should be delayed in the collection of their debts until
the close of a litigation over the receiver's accounts, which
might occupy several years. The suit had already been
pending four years, and the mandate required the Circuit
Court, in its decree nisi, to give another year for the pay
ment of the sum found due. To suppose that this court

520

RAILROAD

COMPANY

r.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

intended, in addition to these five years, to withhold the
recovery of complainants for the additional uncertain period
which might be necessary to litigate the receiver's accounts,
is to impute to it a manifest injustice. The language of the
mandate had reference to the sum actually in the receiver's
hands, properly applicable to the payment of this debt, and
not to what it might turn out on full investigation ought to
be there for that purpose. This court had no reason to suppose that there would be any controversy with the receiver
on the subject, and framed its mandate on the supposition
that all the money for which he would be responsible, would
be at once forthcoming. If such is not the case, neither the
loss nor the delay-of ascertaining the fact was intended by
this court to be imposed on the complainants. The decree
of the court is, therefore, AFFIRMED.
But another order was made by the Circuit Court, of a
very important nature, after the return of the case from this

court, and before the decree just affirmed, which appellants
seek to have reversed.
At the first term of that court after the mandate was filed,
the appellant proposed to pay all the money due on complainants' mortgage, on condition that an order should be
made discharging the receiver, and placing the road and its
appurtenances in the possession of appellants. Upon the
hearing of this petition of appellant, the judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion, and the application was
thereupon refused, as it was not a division upon a subject
which is authorized to be certified to this court for its action.
The appellant insists that this court shall now review the
order of the Circuit Court on this subject; and while conceding that it is not such an order, as standing alone could
be the subject of an appeal, contends, that as the record is
properly here on appeal from the final decree which we have
just considered, the whole record is open for our inspection,
and that it is our duty to correct the error of which he complains in this particular.

Dee, 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SO1UTER.
Opinion of the court.

There is no question but that many orders or decrees,
affecting materially the rights of the parties, are made in the
progress of a chancery suit, which are not final in the sense
of that word in its relation to appeals. The order of the
court affirming or annulling a patent, and referring the case
to a master for an account, is an instance. The adjudications
which the court makes on exception to reports of masters,
often involving the whole matter in litigation, are not final
decrees; and in these and numerous other cases, if the court
can only, on appeal, examine the final or last order or decree
which gives the right of appeal, it is obvious that the entire
benefit of an appeal must, in many cases, be lost.
The order complained of in this case seems to be one of
this class. The complainants are seeking a foreclosure of a
mortgage with a view to make their debt. The owner of
the equity of redemption in the mortgaged premises comes
forward and offers to pay this debt, or all of it that is due,
provided his property, which is in the custody of the court,
shall then be restored to his possession. The right of the
owner to this order is, under ordinary circumstances, very
clear, and a refusal by the court to give him this right would
seem to call for the revisory power of this court, when the
whole case is before it, on the record brought here by appeal
from a final decree.
The only doubt which the court could have on the question arises from the principle that the appointment and discharge of a receiver are ordinarily matters of discretion in
the Circuit Court, with which this court will not.interfere.
As a general rule, this proposition is not denied. But we
do not think it applicable to the case before us. While the
parties to this suit were fiercely litigating the amount of the
mortgage debt, and questions of fraud in the origin of that
debt, the appointment, or the discharge of a receiver for the
mortgaged property, very properly belonged to the discretion of the court in which the litigation was pending. But
when those questions had been passed upon by the Circuit
Court, and by this court also on appeal, and the amount of
the debt definitely fixed by -his court, the right of the defen-

RAILROAD

O0MPANY V. SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

dant to pay that sum, and have a restoration of his property
by discharge of the receiver, is clear, and does not depend
on the discretion of the Circuit Court. It is a right which
the party can claim; and if he shows himself entitled to it
on the facts in the record, there is no discretion in the court
to withhold it. A refusal is error-judicial error-whic?
this court is bound to correct when the matter, as in this in
stance, is fairly before it. That the order asked for by appellants should have been granted, seems to us very clear.
It was objected by the complainants that the receiver
should not be discharged, because the security of the road
and its appurtenances was not sufficient to insure the payment of their debt, and, therefore, its receipts should l e applied to that purpose through the agency of a receiver
The amount of complainants' debt, exclusive of the interest (which appellants proposed to pay), was one million of
dollars, which, added to twelve hundred thousand dollars
of prior mortgages, made the sum of two millions two hundred thousand dollars which the road and its appurtenances
should be worth to secure complainants' debt. The road
bed on which complainants' mortgage is a lien is ninety five
miles from Milwaukie to Portage, besides the depots, roling
stock, and other appurtenances belonging to it. It coistitutes a part of the direct line from the former city to the
Mississippi River, which is one of the most valuable routes
in the United States, both present and prospective. The
gross earnings from this ninety-five miles for the year preceding the application to discharge the receiver, as shown
by his reports, were about eight hundred thousand dollars;
and although these reports show a great falling off in the receiver's receipts since that time, the circumstances which
have produced it are not of a character to incline us to continue the road in the possession of a receiver. The road was
also in good repair. The decree which we have just affirmed
authorizes the complainants, upon default in payment of any
future instalment of interest, to applyifor and have an order
of sale of the road under that decree. Under these circurn3tances, when appellants propose to pay to me $300,000 r--

0

Dec. 1864.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.
Opinion of the court.

$400,000 of complainants' debt before possession is given, it
is idle to say that the security of their debt requires the road
still to be detained from its lawful owner.
Sebre Howard objects to the discharge of a receiver, because he has a judgment of $16,000 against the La Crosse
and Milwaukie Railroad Company, which he claims to be a
lien on the road; and as the present receiver has also been
appointed receiver in his suit, he claims that his debt must
first be paid before he can be discharged.
The idea of appointing or continuing a receiver for the
purpose of taking ninety-five miles of railroad from its lawful
owners, which is earning a gross revenue of $800,000 per
annum, to enforce the payment of a judgment of $16,000,
the lien of which is seriously controverted, is so repugnant
to all our ideas of judicial proceedings that we cannot argue
the question. If Mr. Howard has a valid judgment, the usual
modes of enforcing that judgment are open to him, both at
law and in chancery; but the extraordinary proceeding of
taking millions of dollars worth of property-of such peculiar character as railroad property is-from its rightful 'possessors, as one of the usual means of collecting such a comparatively small debt, can find no countenance in this court.
Selah Chamberlain objects to the discharge of the receiver,
and particularly to delivering the property into possession of
appellants, because he says he has a lien of over $700,000 on
the road, and because that lien is secured by a lease which
entitles him to the possession of the road.
Mr. Chamberlain had been in possession under his lease
for some time prior to the appointment of a receiver, under
a contract with the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, by which he bound himself to keep down the interest
on the various mortgages on the road, including the one on
which this suit is brought. This he had failed to do, and
had actually abandoned the possession to the complainants
in this suit, who weke in possession at the time the receiver
was appointed. His judgment was assailed, and declared to
be fraudulent and void by a decree of the District Court of
the United States. There is a question whether that decree

524

RAIL11oAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ut.

Opinion of the court.

's binding as between him and the present appellants, which
we do not intend to decide here; but we refer to this fact as
having strong influence on the question of the propriety of
keeping the road in the hands of a receiver for his benefit,
or delivering it to him if the receiver is discharged. We
shall endeavor to protect his interest, whatever it may be, in
any order that shall be made on the subject.
As to the Milwaukie and St. Paul Railway Company, who
also resisted this application, we do not see that they have
any legal interest in the matter; and the interest which
prompts their interference is not such as the court can consider on an application of this kind.
In reference to all these parties we remark again, that the
court deprives them of none of their rights to proceed in
the courts in the ordinary mode to collect their debts, and
that the appointment of receivers by a court to manage the
affairs of a long line of railroad, continued through five or
six years, is one of those judicial powers, the exercise of
which can only be justified by the ,pressure of an absolute
necessity. Such a necessity does not exist here; and the fact
that so many years of the exercise of this power has not produced payment of any part of the debts which the receiver
was appointed to secure, is an irresistible argument against
his longer continuance.
The order of the court dismissing this application is,

therefore,

REVERSED,

and the case remanded to the Circuit

Court, with instructions to ascertain the amount due to complainants within some reasonable time to be fixed by said
court, and to make an order that on the payment of that
sum, with the costs of complainants, into court, the receiver
shall be discharged, and the railroad from Milwaukie to
Portage City, with all the appurtenances, rolling stock, and
other property, real and personal, belonging to said division
of road, be delivered by said receiver to the Milwaukie and
Nlinunesota Railroad Company; but that no such discharge of
the receiver, or delivery of the road and its appurtenances,
3hall be made until said company shall first enter into bond

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V.

STONE.

Statement of the case.

with sufficient surety to pay to Sebre Howard and Selab
Chamberlain all such sums as may come into the hands of
said company, which shall hereafter be found to be rightfully applicable to the payment of their claims, if they shall
be established as liens on said road. And the appellants to
recover their costs in this court.
AcOTIOX ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. 'STON2.
1. The United States may properly proceed by bill in equity to have a judicial decree of nullity and an order of cancellation of a patent issued by
itself, ignorantly or in mistake, for lands reserved from sale by law,
and a grant of which by patent was therefore void.
2. The southern boundary of Camp Leavenworth is the line as established
by the surveyor, McCoy, A. D. 1830, for such extent as it was adopted
by the subsequent surveys of Captains Johnson and Hunt, A. D. 1839,
1854, and by the Government of the United States. The Secretary of
the Interior, in 1861, transcended his authority when he ordered surveys to be made north of it.
S. The treaty of 30th May, 1860, between the United States and the Delaware Indians, conferred a right to locate grants only on that portion of
the Delawares' lands reserved for their "permanent home" by the
treaty of 6th May, 1854, and did not authorize their location on that
portion of those lands which, by that treaty, were to be sold for their
uses.

TiE United States, by treaty with the Delaware Indians,
in 1818, agreed to provide for them a country to reside in;
and in 1829, by supplementary treaty, agreed that the country in the fork of the Kansas and Missouri Rivers, extending
"up the Missouri TO Camp Leavenworth," should be conveyed and secured to them as their said home.
A Senate resolution of 29th May, 1830, ratifying this
treaty, provided that the President should employ a surveyor
to run the lines, to establish certain and notorious land.
marks, and to distinguish the boundaries of the granted
country, in the presence of an agent of the Delawares, and to
report to the President his proceedings, with a map; and

