UNITED STATES

v.

BILLING.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

ing any opinion as to the applicability of that remedy to the ease
before the court.
[For a further part of this case, and for the reasons and justification
(under the special facts) of the court below, in executing the mandate as it
did, see Railroad Company v. Soutter; infrfa, p. 510.]

UNrmT

STATES v. BILLIG.

1. The doctrine of United States v. Halleck (1 Wallace, 439), that the decrees
of the District Court on California land surveys under the acts of Congress are final, not only as to the questions of title, but as to the boundaries which it specifies, redeclared; and the remedy, if erroneous,
stated to be by appeal.
2. Appeals on frivolous grounds, from decrees in cases of California surveys,
in the name of the United States, acting for intervenors, under the act
of June 14, 1860, discouraged as being liable to abuse; since, on the one
hand, the party wronged by the appeal gets no costs from the Government; while, on the other, the Government is made to pay the expenses
of a suit promoted under its name by persons who may be litigious
intervenors merely.

TuE Board of Land Commissioners, established by act of
Congress of March 3, 1851, to settle private land claims in
California, confirmed, in 1851, to Billing and others, a tract
of land granted in 1839 by the Mexican Government to one
Felis.
The decree set forth the boundaries of the land essentially
as follows:
"Commencing at the mouth of the creek Avichi, emptying
into the Petaluma marsh, and running up said creek ten thousand varas, to a point called Palos Colorados; thence in a northerly direction five thousand varas, to a place marked by a pile
of stones; thence in an easterly direction to a place called Olympali, five thousand varas; from thence with the estuary, around the
Puntadel Potrero,on the estuary, to the place of beginning; contain
ing two square leagues, a little more or less."

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES v.

BILLING.

Statement of the case.

The diagram below will illustrate the general position of
things; enough to give an idea.

Stones.

SNO VA TO.

to

del

4

It was admitted that no difficulty existed in ascertaining
the boundaries described in this decree.
A survey was made according to these boundaries; but,
thus surveyed, the tract included nearly three leagues, and
the United States excepted to the survey on that ground.
While the case was pending in the District Court on that
exception, one of the deputies of the Surveyor-General of
the United States, -not acting under immediate direction of
his superior, acting, indeed, without his knowledge at the
time, though the principal afterwards issued instructions
in execution of what his deputy had done-made a survey
which excluded one league on the western side of the Novato
tract, including it within another called Nicasio, now patented
by the United States; the patent of the Government, however, by its terms, being declared not to "affect the interests
of third persons." The District Court confirmed the survey
for the tract as it stood, including the Potrero, and excluding
the league on the west. This made a tract of about two
leagues. From this decree the claimants made no appeal.

UNITED STATES V. BILLING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

[The part of the land confirmed which was thus excluded
from the Novato tract, and included in the Nicasio, lies in
shade in the left of the diagram.] In both the Nicasio and
the Novato tract the names of the same persons, either as
owners or as attorneys, or as agents or assignees, appeared
to have been in some way connected.
In accordance with the Mexican custom, what is called
juridical possession-a species of livery of seizin*--was delivered to Felis in 1842 by the Mexican alcalde, of the tract
in question, either with the Potrero included or without the
Potrero; but whether it was with, or whether it was without,
was not clear. The alcalde, in this record, declares:
"Being in the fields, in the creek of Avichi, a boundary of
Novato, November 13, 1842, I, the magistrate, with two assisting witnesses, coterminous resident neighbors, proceeded to see
and reconnoitre the lands of said rancho; and for the better
understanding, being on horseback, [' procedi 6 ver y reconoces
las tierras de d'ho rancho, ypara mayor claridadpuestod caballo,']
in company with all the parties and witnesses before mentioned,
I ordered the aforesaid witnesses to point out the places, limits,
and boundaries of the land as they described them in their depositions. They did so; and I, the magistrate, and those of my
assistance, saw and examined them and the documents presented,
and in testimony I made official note of it, &e."
This officer then goes on to give some account of the measurement, which, he says, was made with a rope of hemp
with measures stamped on it; and he concludes that by this
rope, well twisted and stretched, it resulted that the rancho
has five thousand "varas" in length and ten thousand in
breadth. After which conclusion the owner having "been
made to know the lands which belong to him, for a sign of
true possession and customary form, pulled up grass and
stones, and threw to the four winds of heaven, in manifestation of the legal and legitimate possession which he for himself took."
* See it described, Malarin v. United States, 1 'Wallace, 284.

UNITED STATES V. BILLING.

Dec. 1864.]

Argument for the appellant.

This Mexican record, the judge below, (Hoffman, J.,) after
careful examination, thought so inaccurate and incomplete,
that he considered himself free entirely to discard it, as hopelessly confused and unintelligible,; and his Honor confirmed
to Billing and the others the tract as marked out by the
second survey; that is to say, the tract with the western
league excluded and the Potrero included. The correctness
of his action was the point on appeal here.
Ar. Wills,for the United States, contended, that the owners
of both tracts were in fact the same persons; that if the
deputy surveyor had not made his survey excluding the
league on the west,-the league put into the Nicasio tract,the Potrero would have been excluded, and the claimants
have thus lost the most valuable part of the whole tract;
that to get this Potrero they had procured this survey by the
deputy surveyor to be made, and had got the one league on
the west included in the iNicasio tract (their tract, also, as was
argued), in order to get the Potrero included in the Novato.
The whole thing, it was urged, was a plan to get three
leagues, the Potrero being included, where, otherwise, they
would have got but two, with the Potrero excluded. It was
argued, upon the evidence, not here reported, that the record of juridical possession did show that the Potrero was
excluded, and that the tract of which possession was delivered was the iNovato without that and with the part which the
deputy had put into the Nicasio. In ltalarinv. United States,*
this court relied largely on this ancient proceeding of the
Mexican law,-tbe identical form almost of the common law
of England; and though no doubt, as was rightly decided in
United States v. Halleck,t it will, as a general thing, follow
ooundaries distinctly given in a decree, it will not do so
where it is plain that by the act of juridical possession the
party was confined to less space; which space conforrms
exactly with the amount called for by the very grant confirmed.
Mr. Goold, contra:
*1

Wallace, 282.

fId. 489.

UNITED STATES V. BILLING.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice G-RIER delivered the opinion of the court:
In the case of United States v. Halleck,* it is said that "the
decree is a finality, not only as to the question of title, but
as to the boundaries which it specifies." If erroneous in
either particular, the remedy was by appeal; but the appeal
having been withdrawn by the Government, the question of
its correctness is forever closed. In The .ossat Case,t the
same doctrine was fully established.
The final decree in this case sets forth the specific boundaries of the land granted, and it is admitted that the surveyor found no difficulty in finding the monuments and
boundaries described in this decree. But as these bounda.
ries included about three leagues, the surveyor-general, assuming that the grant was confined to two leagues, excluded
a league of land within these boundaries on the western
side, and included it in the survey of the Kicasio rancho,
which adjoins.
As the owners of the Novato tract now in question did
not appeal from that survey, and are content to take this
survey of two leagues, we are not bound now to decide whether, according to the decree, they were not entitled to have
all the land included within the boundaries mentioned in the
decree, and whether the words "containing two leagues, a
little more or less," should be construed merely as a conjectural estimate of the quantity contained within the boundaries described. But one thing is certain, that if the United
States have taken a league on the western side of the Novato, and given it to the Nicasio rancho, it is with an ill
grace that they who use their name now seek to take another
league on the east.
The Punto del Potrero, a peninsula almost entirely surrounded by a salt marsh, is as clearly within the decree as
language can make it. The decree being itself clear and
precise, does not refer to the rough daubs called diserios, or
to the record of juridical possession for the purpose of rendering uncertain that which the decree made certain. The
*1 Wallace, 489.

t Inf-a, P- 649.

Dec. 1864.]

UNITED STATES V. BILLING.

Opinion of the court.

formula of this delivery of possession, or livery of seizin,
did not require a survey of the estate. Perhaps the province
of California at that time could not furnish a man capable of
making an accurate survey. In the present case, the alcalde
proceeded "to see and reconnoitre" the monuments claimed as
corners in company of the witnesses, "being himself on horseback for the better understanding;" and after divers measurements made with a rope, he "concluded that it results that
the rancho has five thousand varas in length and ten thousand in breadth." That would constitute a rectangular
figure, whose contents would be easy of calculation, and
avoid the difficulty of calculating the area of an irregular
one, made by lines running from one monument or corner
to another. The court below were fully justified in "entirely
discarding" this document from consideration, whether it
was "hopelessly confused and unintelligible" or not. We need
not, therefore, further examine the argument of the learned
counsel of the appellants whether the opinion of that court
was correct or not on the construction of that document.
Another objection was made, though not much urged,
that the survey in question was void, because not made by
the surveyor-general in person, and because he had no
"lawful authority" to approve a survey made by a deputy.
This objection requires no further remark than merely to
observe that the permission given by the act of 1860 to private intervenors to prosecute appeals to this court, in the
name of the United States, may be much abused in cases
where the Mexican grantee is compelled to defend himself
even a second time in this court, and to answer frivolous
objections to his title or his survey at the suggestion of any
litigious intruder or secret intervenor. The party wronged
by the appeal receives no costs from the Government; while
the Government itself is made to pay the expenses of the
oppressive and unjust litigation in which it has been made
the actor by this class of persons.
DECREE AF'1TRMED.
VOL.

L

29

