Dec. 1864.]

TOOL COmPANY V. NORRIS.
Statement of the case.

remark that upon an examination of the statute of Missouri on that subject, and looking .to the policy which dictated it, it does not seem probable that it was intended to
give this -kind of relief to an unsuccessful defendant in ejectment, while he was still contesting the title of the plaintiff.
As to this point, we incline to rule that the bill shall be dismissed without prejudice.
GRIER, J., expressed his concurrence, adding as another
reason why the bill should have been dismissed, that even if
the mortgage given to Carswell and McClellan had been
fraudulent, -which his Honor, after examining the testimony, said it was not,-the complainant, who was not a
creditor, had no equity to found his bill.
DECREE REVERSED, with costs; case remanded to the court

below, with directions that there the bill be dismissed with
costs; the dismissal, however, to be without prejudice to any
remedy of the complainant for compensation for improvements on the land made in good faith.

TOOL COMPANY V. NORRIS.
1. An agreement for compensation for procuring a contract from the Government to furnish its supplies is against public policy, and cannot be
enforced by the courts.
2. Where the special and general counts of a declaration set forth the same
contract, and an instruction directed to the legality of the contract, is
refused with reference to the special counts, it is unnecessary, in order
to bring up to this court for consideration the writing thereon, to ask
the instruction with reference to the general counts to which it is equally
applicable, although upon the special counts the verdict passed for the
plaintiff in error.

IN July, 1861, the Providence Tool Company, a corporation created under the laws of Rhode Island. entered into .

.TooL CoMIPANY v. Noinis.

[ uj, Ct

Statement of the case.

contract with the Government, through the Secretary of
War, to deliver to officers of the United States, within certain stated periods, twenty-five thousand muskets, of a specified pattern, at the rate of twenty dollars a musket. This
contract was procured through the exertions of Norris, the plaintiff
in the court below, and the defendant in error in this court, upon a
previous agreement with the corporation, through its managing
agent, that in case he obtained a contract of this kind he should
receive compensation for his services proportionateto its extent.
Norris himself, it appeared,-though not having any imputation on his moral character,-was a person who had led
a somewhat miscellaneous sort of a life, in Europe and America. Soon after the rebellion broke out, he found himself
in Washington. He was there without any special purpose,
but, as he stated, with a view of "making business-anything
generally;" "soliciting acquaintances;" "getting letters;"
"getting an office," &c. Finding that the Government was
in need of arms to suppress the rebellion, which had now
become organized, he applied to the Providence Tool Company, already mentioned, to see if they wanted a job, and
made the contingent sort of contract with them just referred
to. He then set himself to work at what he called, "concentrating influence at the War Department;" that is to say,
to getting letters from people who might be supposed to
have influence with Mr. Cameron, at that time Secretary of
War, recommending him and his objects. Among other
means, he applied to the Rhode Island Senators, Messrs
Anthony and Simmons, with whom he had got acquainted,
to go with him to the War Office. Mr. Anthony declined
to go; stating that since he had been Senator he had been
applied to some hundred times, in like manner, and had invariably declined; thinking it discreditable to any Senator to
intermeddle with the business of the departments. "You
will certainly not decline to go with me, and introduce me
to the Secretary, and to state that the Providence Tool Company is a responsible corporation." "Iwill give you aote,"
said Mr. Anthony. "I do not want a note," was the reply;
"I want the weight of y ur presence with me. I want the

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL

COMPANY V. Nomius.

47

Statement of the case.

influence oJ a Senator." "Well," said Mr. Anthony. "go to
Simmons." By one means and another, Norris got influential introduction to Mr. Secretary Cameron, and got the
contract, a very profitable one; the Secretary, whom on
leaving he warmly thanked, "hoping that he would make
a great deal of money out of it."
But a dispute now arose between Norris and the Tool
Company, as to the amount of compensation to be paid.
Norris insisted that b the agreement with him he was to
receive $75,000; the difference between the contract price
and seventeen dollars a musket; whilst the corporation, on
the other hand, contended, that it had only promised "a
liberal compensation" in case of success. Some negotiation
on the subject was had between them; but it failed to produce a settlement, and Norris instituted the present action
to recover the full amount claimed by him.
The declaration contained several counts; the first and
second ones, special; the third, fourth, and fifth, general.
The special ones set forth specifically a contract, that if he,
Norris, procured the Government to give the order to the
company, the company would pay to him, Norris, "for his
services, in obtaining, or causing and procuring to be obtained, such order, all that the Governmeit might, by the
terms of their arrangement with the company, agree to pay
above $17 for each musket." The general counts were in
the usual form of quantum meruit, &c.; but in these counts,
as in the special ones, a contract was set forth on the basis
of a compensation, contingent upon Norris's procuring an
order from the Government for muskets for the Tool Company; reliance on this contingent sort of contract running through
all the counts of the declaration. There was no pretence that
the plaintiff had rendered any other service than that which
resulted in the contract for the muskets.
On the trial in the Circuit Court for the Rhode Island
District, the counsel of the Tool Company requested the
court to instruct the jury, that a contract like that declared
on in the first and second counts was against public policy,
and void; which instruction the court refused to give. The

148

ToOL

COMPANY v.

onRis.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the contract.

same counsel requested the court to charge, "that upon the
quantum meruit count the plaintiff was not entitled in law to
recover any other sum of money, for services rendered to
the Tool Company in procuring a contract for making arms,
than a fair and reasonable compensation for the time, speech,
labor performed, and expenses incurred in performing such
services, to be computed at a price for which similar service.;
could have been obtained from others." The court gave this
instruction, with the exception of the last nine words in
italics. The jury found for the defendant on the first and
second-that is to say, upon the special-counts, and for the
plaintiff on the others, and judgment was entered on $13,500
for the plaintiff. The case came, by writ of error, here.
Messrs. Payne and Thurston for the Tool Company, plaintiff
in error: The general principle that "many contracts which
are not against morality are still void as being against sound
policy," is one that was distinctly announced so long ago,
at least, as Lord Mansfield's day,* and one which will not
be denied. Thus, no recovery can be had upon a contract
for the payment of a part of the profits of an office to the
former incumbent, in consideration of his resignation of such
office;t and the -principle has been extended to the case of
a contract stipulating merely for the resignation of an office,
without any agreement to exert any influence toward the
appo:ntment of a successor, and this, too, where the sum
agreed to be paid for such resignation was only an equitable
return of a portion of a sum of money previously paid by
the retiring officer upon a like contract to his successor, who
had also been his predecessor in the same office.1 In consistency with the doctrine that benefits from the Government ought not to be the result of any corrupting influence,
but should be awarded on the principle of detur digniori, it
has been held that an agreement on the part of one person
to pay a sum of money to another person, as an inducement
* Jones v. Randall, Cowper, 89.

t Parsons -v.
Thompson, 1 Henry Blackstone, 822.
1 Eddy v.Capron, 4 Rhode Island, 394.

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL

COMPANY v.

NoIRIS.

Argument against the contract.

for the latter not to propose to carry the mail upon a certain
post-route in opposition to the former, is against public
policy and void, although no act whatever was done by the
party, to whom the promise was made, to influence the success of the other party's application, and the applicant was
a suitable and responsible man to perform the service.*
Similar principles governed the court in the Vermont case
of Pingry v. Washburn,t where it refused to sustain an
agreement to pay a sum of money for withdrawing opposition to the passage of an act affecting the interest of a corporation. The Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in Boynton
v. Hubbardt remark, in reference to the class of illustrations
now being considered: "It is upon this same principle that
bargains to procure offices are rescinded, not on account o.f
fraud in either of the parties, but for the sake of the public, because
they tend to introduce unsuitablepersons into public ofices."
Another, and a large class of cases to which the principle
has been applied, relate to agreements for compensation for
procuring legislation. All such have, without an exception,
been held to be void. In .Marshallv. Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Go.,ยง this court stated that it was an undoubted
principle of the common law that it will not lend its aid to
enforce a contract "which tends to corrupt or contaminate, by
Inproper influences, the integrity of our social or political
institutions." And again: "Bribes in the shape of high
contingent compensation must necessarily lead to the use of
improper means and the exercise of undue influence. Their
necessary consequence is the demoralization of the ageht
who covenants for them."
That it is not necessary for the element of sinister or personal influence to be contemplated by the agreement, or to
be, in fact, resorted to by the agent, in order to render such
agreement for service obnoxious to the law, is directly asserted in other cases. The plaintiff in Harris v. Roofsj
sought to recover in indebitatusassumpsit, and on a quanturi
*
t
j
VOL

Gulick et al. v. Bailey, 5 Halstead, 87.
: 7 Massachusetts, 112.
1 Aiken, 264.
16 Howard, 314.
II 10 Barbour, 489.
4
'1.

00

TOOL

COMPANY

v. NoRIuS.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the contract.

meruit, for his services and expenses in prosecuting before
the legislature of New York a claim, in behalf of the defendant, to a certain tract of land derived under an Indian
grant. It does not appear from the case that the plaintiff
was to observe any secrecy, or that his true representative
character was not fully understood. Neither was it suggested
that he was expected to employ, or did in fact make use of,
any sinister or improper influence with the members of the
legislature. It was shown that he appeared at hearings of
the committee to whom the same was referred, and that the
value of his services to the plaintiff, and the expenses by him
incurred during his stay in Albany, were equal to the amount
charged, which was not a large sum, he having failed of establishing the defendant's title. Some question was made
whether his compensation Was not to be contingent, as was
proved to have been the agreement with a former agent of
the defendant in the same business. The court, however,
use the following language: "Even without any agreement
to share in the avails of the claim, we think the claim invalid
as against public policy and sound legislation. It certainly
would imply a most unjustifiable dereliction of duty to hold
that the employment of individuals to visit and importune
the members is necessary to obtain justice. Such practices
would have a tendency to prevent the free, honorable, and
correct deliberation and action of this most important branch
of sovereignty. We cannot think it good public policy to
require our courts to enforce such contracts. It can neither
be necessary or proper for the legislature to be surrounded
by swarms of hired retainers of the claimants upon public
bounty or justice. To legalize such a system would, to s.y
the least, be a reflection upon the ability and industry of
our legislators."
The Louisiana case of Gill v. Williams & Davis,* and
another in Massachusetts, Fuller v. Dame,t are in point.
The principle to be deduced from the cases is, in its fullest
rorce, applicable to the one at bar. The evil tendencies of
* 12 Louisiana Annual. 219.

t

18 Pickering, 472.

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL COMPANT

V. IN'ORRIS.

Argument against the contract.

an agreement to procure a favor from one of the departments of the Government for a compensation contingent
upon the success of the undertaking, are as great as in the
case of an agreement to procure legislation upon a similar
consideration. The heads of the several departments exercise by delegation the high duties which, by law, have been
intrusted to them, and are only the executive ministers appointed to carry out the will of the law-making power. The
authority to make contracts for arms was derived from the
legislature. It would have been competent for Congress
to have authorized the making of such contracts through
one of its own committees, or by the concurrent action of
the two houses of which it is composed, to have settled upon
and agreed to the terms of each contract. It follows, therefore, that if the agreement set up by the defendant in error
would be condemned if it related to the procurement of legislation beneficial to the plaintiff in error, it must, for the same
reasons, fail of support if it relates to the procurement of the
same benefit from the Secretary of War, to whom the power
of conferring it had been delegated.
If any one ever doubted of the wisdom of such principles
as the cases which we have cited a little way back decide,
will he doubt it after reading the statement of this case?.
With a sense of decorum, the reporter will probably sup.
press some of its salient features,-the tacenda of the case.
Its general character he will not dare, even for decorum's
sake, to falsify. "Wounds cannot be cured without searching." This case has been probed, and requires to be laid
open.
The transaction is creditable to no one concerned but to
Mr. Anthony. Such principles as the court below declared
in regard to the contract are wholly untenable. And the
effect is seen in the fact that, for service which any clerk in
the employ of the company might have rendered in a single
day, and at a trifling expense, the jury awarded a zompensation nearly double what is allowed to one of your Honors
for the service of a year upon this bench.
May it please this court, a profound thinker of our owP

TooL

COMPANY

v. NORlIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the contract.

country has observed that nothing so base as American politics had become, before the breaking out of our rebellion,
had been seen in human history since the Roman Empire
was put up at auction. Our politics, it may be hoped, have
grown no worse during the honorable contest which our
country has been waging. But may it not be feared that
what are called the morals of business have been descending to the level of politics rapidly ? No one expects absolute purity in politics or business, especially in time of war.
Contractors followed the armies of Wellington as they follow
those of Grant. The Treasury was plundered when William
Pitt was Chancellor of the Exchequer; and we may doubt,
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE, whether, when You held a corresponding office, you were able to keep the hands of all your sub-

ordinates as clean as you ever kept YOUR

OWN.

These are

the necessary consequences of the disordered condition in
which we now temporarily are. But they are not to be encouraged; least of all are they to have judicial sanction.
This court will pronounce, we feel assured, that this agreement for contingent compensation, as the reward of procuring contracts with the Executive Department of the Governsaent, is contra bonos mores, and wholly void.
Mr. Blake, contra.
1. It is not easy to conceive of a more ungracious defence.
Confessedly, the contract was procured through the exertions
of Norris alone. Of course, he gave his time, spent his
money, invoked the aid of acquaintances, solicited influence,
waited about the ante-rooms, and went through such operations as persons seeking contracts at Washington generally
go through; operations distasteful in the extreme to any
man of independence; impossible, indeed, for such a man
to undergo. There is no imputation upon the generally fair
character of Mir. Norris, nor allegation that Mr. Cameron
acted corruptly. Having got the contract through Norris's
!abors, I-a-ing made an immense sum by it, the company
now turn round, and plead the illegality of their agree.

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL COMPANY I

NORRIS.

Opinion of the court.

ments! Is not this base? More than this, is it not a case
for the maxim, "'Nemo allegans turpitudinem suam audiatur?"
The cases cited do not apply. Not one is a case like this.
There is no case which says that a corporation may not employ an agent to negotiate with the War Department, for a
contract to manufacture arms; or that, if the agent is openly
acting as such, the terms of his compensation may not lawfully be whatever the corporation and himself agree on.
2. The refusal of the court to charge that such a contract
was unlawful, was expressly directed to the contract between
Norris and the Tool Company, as specifically set forth in the
first and second counts; that is to say, as set forth in the
special counts. In them, Norris set up a specific agreement
to give him all above seventeen dollars a musket. But on
these two counts the jury found for the Tool Company. Of
course, the instruction asked for by the company on these
counts, and refused, is not open to consideration here.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Several grounds were taken, in the court below, in defence
of this action; and, among others, the corporation relied
upon the proposition of law, that an agreement of the
character stated,-that is, an agreement for compensation
to procure a contract from the Government to furnish its
supplies,-is against public policy, and void. This proposition is the question for the consideration of the court. It
arises upon the refusal of the court below to give one of the
instructions asked.
A suggestion was made on the argument, though not
much pressed, that the instruction involving the proposition
cannot properly be regarded, inasmuch as it was directed in
terms to the agreement set forth in the special counts of the
declaration, upon which the jury found for the defendants.
There would be much force in this suggestion, if the general
counts, upon which the verdict passed for the plaintiff, did
not also aver that his services were rendered in procuring
the same contract from the Government. The instruction
was directed especially to the legality of a contract of that

54

ToOL CoMPANY v. Noituia.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

kind, which having been once refused with reference to
some of the counts, it was not necessary for counsel to renew
with reference to the other counts to which it was equally
applicable. The subsequent instructions were, therefore,
firected to other matters.
It was not claimed, on the trial, that the plaintiff had
rendered any other services than those which resulted in the
procurement of the contract for the muskets. We are of
opinion, therefore, that the proposition of law is fairly presented by the record, and is before us for consideration.
The question, then, is this: Can an agreement for compensation to procure a contract from the Goviernment to
furnish its supplies be enfdrced by the courts? We have
no hesitation in answering the question in the negative. All
contracts for supplies should be made with those, and with
those only, who will execute them most faithfully, and at
the least expense to the Government. Considerations as to
the most efficient and economical mode of meeting the public wants should alone control, in this respect, the action of
every department of the Government. No other consideration can lawfully enter into the transaction, so far as the
Government is concerned. Such is the rule of public policy;
and whatever tends to introduce any other elements into the
transaction, is against public policy. That agreements, like
the one under consideration, have this tendency, is manifest.
They tend to introduce personal solicitation, and personal
influence, as elements in the procurement of contracts; and
thus directly lead to inefficiency in the public service, and
to unnecessary expenditures of the public funds.
The principle which determines the invalidity of the agreement in question has been asserted in a great variety of
cases. It has been asserted in cases relating to agreements
for compensation to procure legislation. These have been
uniformly declared invalid, and the decisions have not
turned upon the question, whether improper influences were
contemplated or used, but upon the corrupting tendency
of the agreements. Legislation should be prompted solely

Dec. 1864.]

TOOL

OMPANY V.

NORRIS.

Opinion of the court

from considerations of the public good, and the best means
of advancing it. Whatever tends to divert the attention
of legislators from their high duties, to mislead their judg
ments, or to substitute other motives for their conduct than
the advancement of the public interests, must necessarily
and directly tend to impair the integrity of our political institutions. , Agreements for compensation contingent upon
success, suggest the use of sinister and corrupt means for
the accomplishment of the end desired. The law meets the
suggestion of evil, and strikes down the contract from its
inception.
There is no real difference in principle between agreements to procure favors from legislative bodies, and agreements to procure favors in the shape of contracts from the
heads of departments. The Ltroduetion of improper elements to control the action of both, is the direct and inevitable result of all such arrangements.*
The same principle has also been applied, in numerous
instances, to agreements for compensation to procure appointments to public offices. These offices are trusts,
held solely for the public good, and should be conferred
from considerations of the ability, integrity, fidelity, and
fitness for the position of the appointee. No other considerations can properly be regarded by the appointing
power. Whatever introduces other elements to control this
power, must necessarily lower the character of the appointments, to the great detriment of the public. Agreements
for compensation to procure these appointments tend directly and necessarily to introduce such elements. The law,
therefore, from this tendency alone, adjudges these agreements inconsistent with sound morals and public policy.t
Other agreements of an analogous character might be mentioned, which the courts, for the same or similar reasons, refuse to uphold. It is unnecessary to state them particularly;
* Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 16 Howard, 814;
Hai ris v. Roof's Executors, 10 Barbour, 489; Fuller v. Dame, 18 Pickering, 472.
f Gray v. Hook, 4 Comstock. 449.

GREGG V. FORSYTH.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

it is sufficient to observe, generally, that all agreements fo!
pecuniary considerations to control the business operations
of the Government, or the regular administration of justice,
or the appointments to public offices, or the ordinary course
of legislation, are void as against public policy, without
reference to the question, whether improper means are contemplated or used in their execution. The law looks to the
general tendency of such agreements; and it closes the door
to temptation, by refusing them recognition in any of the
courts of the country.
It follows that the judgment of the court below mutc be
reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
SO ORDERED.

GREGG v. FORSYTH.
Error does not lie to a refusal of the Circuit Court to award a writ of restitution in ejectment.
FORSYTH had brought ejectment against Gregg in the Ci'cuit Court for Illinois, and obtained judgment for the land
sued for. On writ of error taken by Gregg, this court reversed that judgment and remitted the case with directions
to issue a venire de novo. Between the time, however, that
the Circuit Court gave its judgment of recovery, and that
when this court gave its of reversal, Forsyth had been put
in possession of the premises by a haberefacias,and had collected, moreover, the costs of the suit.
As soon as the mandate of this court reversing the judgment was sent down to the court below, but before it had
been filed or a rule entered in pursuance of its directions,
Gregg moved the court for a writ of restitution. This motion the court refused to grant. Whereupon, a writ of
error-the present writ-was brought.

Mr. Justice 1ELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the facts of this case, it will be seen that at the time
the motion was made in the court below, the cause was not
then pending in the court. Although the mandate had been

