Mups.

ALEXANDER'S

COTTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

MRs. ALEXANDER'S COTTON.
1. The principle, that personal dispositions of the individual inhabitants of
enemy territory as distinguished from those of the enemy people generally, cannot, in questions of capture, be inquired into, applies in civil
wars as in international. Hence, all the people of any district that was
in insurrection against the United States in the Southern rebellion, are
to be regarded as enemies, except in so far as by action of the Government itself that relation may have been changed.
2. Our Government, by its act of Congress of March 12th, 1863 (12 Stat. at
Large, 591), to provide for the collection of abandoned property, &c.,
does make distinction between those whom the rule of international
law would class as enemies; and, through forms which it prescribes,
protects the rights of property of all persons in rebel regions who,
during the rebellion, have, in fact, maintained a loyal adhesion to the
Government; the general policy of our legislation during the rebellion
having been to preserve, for loyal owners obliged by circumstances to
remain in rebel States, all property or its proceeds which has come to
the possession of the Government or its officers.
3. Cotton in the Southern rebel districts-constituting as it did the chief
reliance of the rebels for means to purchase munitions of war, an element of strength to the rebellion-was a proper subject of capture by
the Government during the rebellion on general principles of public
law relating to war, though private property; and the legislation of
Congress during the rebellion authorized such capturs.
4. Property captured on land by the officers and crews of a naval force of
the United States, is not "maritime prize;" even though, like cotton,
it may have been a proper subject of capturegenerally, as an element of
strength to the enemy. Under the act of Congress of March 12th, 1863,
such property captured during the rebellion should be turned over to
the Treasury Department, by it to be sold, and the proceeds deposited
in the National Treasury, so that any person asserting ownership of it
may prefer his claim in the Court of Claims under the said act; and
on making proof to the satisfaction of that tribuna: that ho has never
given aid or comfort to the rebellion, have a return of the net proceeds
decreed to him.

IN the spring of 1864, a conjoint expedition of forces of
the United States, consisting of the Ouachita and other gunboats, with their officers and crews, under Rear Admiral
Porter, and a body of troops under Major-General Banks,
proceeded up the Red River, a tributary of the Mississippi,
and which empties into that river three hundred and thirty-

Dec. 1864.]

MRS. ALEXANDER'S

COTTO.

Statement of the case.

four miles above its mouth, as far as Shreveport, in the
northwestern corner of Louisiana. The Southern insurgents
were, at this time, in complete occupation of the district.
About the 15th of March these Government forces captured
Fort De Russy, a strong fort, which the insurgents had built,
about half way between Alexandria and the mouth of Red
River. The -insurgents now evacuated the district in such
a way that most of that part of it on the river fell under the
control of the Union arms. This control, however, did not
become permanent. The insurgents rallied; and returning,
reinstated themselves. The Union troops fell back, leaving
the district occupied as it had been before they came. The
actual presence and control of the Government forces lasted
from the middle of March to near the end of April,-something less than eight weeks. During it, an election of delegates to a Union Convention, appeared to have been held
in or about Alexandria, under the orders and protection of
General Banks, though the evidence of what was done in
the matter was not clear. " The community," one witness
testified, "was almost unanimous against secession when it
commenced, and have so continued." But of this they gave
no overt prodfs; none at least that reached this court.
During the advance of the Federal forces, and about the
26th of March, a party from the Ouachita-acting under
orders from the naval commander-landed on the plantation
of Mrs. Elizabeth Alexander, in the Parish of Avoyelles, a
part of the region thus temporarily occupied, and upon the
river. They here took possession of seventy-two bales of
cotton which had been raised by Mrs. Alexander on the
plantation, and which, having escaped a conflagration which
the rebels, on the advance of the Government forces, had
made of the crop of the preceding year, were stored in a
cotton-gin house, about a mile from the river. The cotton
was hauled by teams to the river bank, and shipped to Cairo,
in Illinois. Being libelled there, as prize of war, in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois, and sold pendente lite, Mrs. Alexander put in a claim
for the proceeds, and the court made a decree giving them

Mas.

ALEXANDER'S COTTON.

Esu.p. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to her. This decree being confirmed in the Circuit Court,
the United States appealed here.
The question raised before this court was, whether this
cotton was or was not properly to be considered as maritime
prize, subject to the prize jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
As respected the nature of the Red River and the character of the vessels used in the conjoint expedition, it appeared that seagoing vessels do not navigate it, the same
not affording sufficient water for them; that no other vessels
than steamboats of light draft, engaged in the transportation
of passengers and freight, usually navigate it; that the gunboats so called, used on this expedition, were of light draft,
similar, in many particulars, to steamboats, many of them
having been steamboats altered to carry guns and munitions
of war generally, though not previously used, nor well capable of being used at sea for any purpose; that guns were
mounted on them in order that such guns might be used in
connection with and in subordination to the army in its active operations against the enemy in the small streams of
the West and Southwest, away from the seaboard.
As regarded Mrs. Alexander's personal loyalty the evidence was not very full. She had assisted somewhat to
build Fort De Russy, which was within a few miles of her
own plantation, but, according to the testimony, did this
only on compulsion. She was equally kind, it was testified,
to loyal persons and to rebels, when either were sick or
wounded. She had particular friends among persons of
known loyalty; but there were one or two Confederate
officers who came to her house,-the testimony being, however, that they were perhaps attracted thither neither by
Mrs. Alexander's politics nor by her cotton, but by the
beauty of some "young ladies" who resided with her, and
whom they went to "visit."
Three weeks after the cotton had been seized, Mrs. Alexander took the oath required by the President's proclamation of amnesty, of December 8, 1863; a proclamation which
gives to persons who took the oath "full pardon," "with

Dec. 1864.]

MRS. ALEXANDER'S COTTON.
Statement of the case.

restoration of all rights," except as to slaves and "property,
cases where rights of third persons shall have intervened."
But it was upon the condition that persons should thenceforward "keep their oath inviolate."* Mrs. Alexander never
left the territory on which her plantation was situated, nor
it. The estate was her own, and she had resided on it sinpe
1835. She was about sixty-five years old at the time of these
events.
Such were the facts. In order, however, perfectly to comprebend the case as it stood before the court, it is necessary
to make mention of certain acts of Congress bearing on it.
Congress, by act of August 6th, 1861,t to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes, declared, that if any
person should use or employ any property in aiding, abetting or promoting the insurrection, or consent to such use
or employment, such property should "be lawful subject of
prize and capturewherever found."
And by act of July 17th, 1862,T to suppress insurrection,
to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the
property of rebels, &c., it declared (§ 6), that "all the estate
and property" of persons in rebellion, and who, after sixty
days public warning [which warning the President gave by
proclamation], did not return to their allegiance, liable to
seizure; and made it the duty of the President to "seize" it;
prescribing the mode in which it should be condemned.
And by a third act, that of March 12th, 1863,§ "to provide for the collection of abandoned property, and for the
prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts," &c., made
* The oath now made by Mrs. Alexander, April 19, 1864, was, that she
would "henceforth faithfully support, protect, and defend the Constitution
of the United States, and the Union of the States thereunder;" and would,
"in like manner, abide by and faithfully support all acts of Congress passed
during the existing rebellion with reference to slaves, so long and so far as
not repealed, modified, or held void by Congress, or by decision of the Supreme Court;" and would, "in like manner, abide by and faithfully support
all proclamations of the President made during the existing rebellion,
having reference to slaves, so long and so far as not modified or declared
void by decision of the Supreme Court."
t 12 Stat. at Large, 319.
1 Id. 591.
Id. 821.

MRs.

ALEXANDER'S

COTTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

it the duty, under penalty of dismission, &c. (§ 6), of "every
officer or private of the regular or volunteer forces of the
United States, or ay officer, sailor or marine in the naval service
of the United States, who may take or receive any such
abandoned property, or cotton, sugar, rice or tobacco from
persons in such insurrectionary districts, or have it under
his control, to turn the same over to an agent" to be appointed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, under whose charge the
matter is put by the act, and who accordingly issued regulaions in regard to such property. The act provides, however, that none of its provisions shall apply "to any lawful
maritime prize by the naval force of the United States."
This act, it may be added (§ 3), providea that "any person
claiming to have been the owner of such abandoned or captured property may, at any time within two years after the
suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds
thereof in the Court of Claims, and on proof to the satisfaction of the said court of his ownership, &c., and that he
has never given any aid or comfort to the present rebellion,
receive the residue of such proceeds after the deduction of
any purchase-money which may have been paid, together
with the expense of transportation and sale."
With these acts there may, perhaps, for the sake of absolute completeness, be presented the act of July 17th, 1862,
for the better government of the navy,* enacting (§ 2), "that
the proceeds of all ships and vessels, and the goods taken on
them, which shall be adjudged good prize, shall, when of
equal or superior force to the vessel making the capture, be
the sole property of the captors, and when of inferior force
be divided equally between the United States and the officers
and men making the capture;" and also that of 2d July,
1864,t passed after this capture, declaring "that no property,
seized or taken upon any of the inland waters of the United
States by the naval forces thereof, shall be deemed maritime prize," but shall be turned over, as provided in the
already mentioned act of March 12th, 1863.
-x12 Star. at Large, 606.

t 13 Id. 877.

Dec. 1864.]

e.

Ms.
ALEXANDER'S

O0TTON.

Argument for the Government.

Mr. Assistant Attorney-GeneralAshton, and Mr. .ames, for
the United States:
1. At the time when the combined expedition entered this
region, in March, 1864, and when it left it in May, eight
weeks afterwards, it was completely in enemy possession and
control. Rebel power, civil and military, held it. The region was, therefore, enemies' country, and the people were
enemies, irrespectively of the loyalty or disloyalty of individuals. The Prize Cases in this court, and among them
The Amy Warwick, adjudge this.* The fact that there was
momentary military occupation of the region in part by the
co-operating army of the United States on the day of this
capture, did not change this enemy character ;t for the possession of the United States was unfirm, as shown by the
event. After constant military activity, the rebel power was
reinstated. Independently of all this, insurrectionary and
hostile character was fixed upon the region and property by
different acts of Congress, including the "Abandoned and
Captured Property Act" of March 12, 1863, which made
the property of all people in the region "liable to seizure;"
and made it the duty of the President to "seize" and have
it cQndemned.
2. The property, though private property, was liable to
seizure and confiscation, it being a great commercial staple
of the enemy, the product 5f his own soil, grown and gathered in time of war; in peace his greatest, and in rebellion
his only resource. It is matter of common knowledge that
cotton has been the means by which the rebel confederation"this government" of Davis-has procured money or munitions of war from England and France at all.
3. It is lawful prize of war, though made by the navy on land.
The prize jurisdiction of courts of admiralty in England has
always been exercised in cases of belligerent naval capture
on land, as much as in cases of naval capture on the high
seas; and this, too, whether such capture on land be made
by the naval force acting alone or in co-operation with the
*2 Black. 693; Id. 674.

2 6The Circassian, supra, p. 135.

MRS. ALEXANDER'S

COTTOI].

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the Government.

army. Enemy property so captured has always, in England,
been condemned as prize of war.
This jurisdiction was declared by the Court of King's
Bench, A.D. 1781, in the two great cases of Le Caux v. Eden*
and Lindo v. Rodney; Lord Mansfield delivering the judgment of the court in the latter case. The earliest British
authorities are there cited and reviewed. Since these two
judgments, no part of the law laid down in them has been
disputed in England; but, on the contrary, it has been
affirmed by the courts of common law, as in Lord Camden v.
H:ome,t and Smart v. Woff,t. and has been accepted and applied to naval captures on land by Lord Stowell and other
judges in the High Court of Admiralty in a series of cases.§
We may refer, also, to the case of Alexander v. The Duke of
Wellington,1j in the Chancery of England.
In the United States, this British view of the prize jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty in England over such naval
captures on land, has been recognized by this court in -Brown
v. United States, and in Jehn~ings v. Carson,** where Marshall, C. J., delivered the opinion.
But the District Courts of the United States have all the
jurisdiction of the British courts of admiralty, both in prize
and on the instance side. The case of Glass v. Sloop .Betsy,tt
decided by this court A. D. 1794, put this point at rest. Its
authority, never seriously questioned as to this point, has
been recognized in Talbot v. Jansen,1. and in The Brig Allerta.§§ Judge Story, who is known to have been the author
of the note in the Appendix to 2d Wheaton on "The Principles and Practice in Prize Cases," apparently takes the
view which we here maintain.
* Douglas, 594, 620.

See, also, Mitchell v. Rodney, 2 Brown, P. C. 423.
4 Term, 382.
1:8 Id. 328.
The Cape of Good Hope, 2 Robinson, 274; Thorshaven, Edwards, 102;
The Island of Trinidad, 5 Robinson, 85; Stella del Norte, Id. 311; The Rebekah, 1 Id. 277; The Buenos Ayres, 1 Dodson, 28; The Capture of Chinsurah, 1 Acton, 179; French Guiana, 2 Dodson, 161; Geneva, Id. 444; Tarragona, Id. 487; Cayenne, 1 Haggard, 42, note; Anglo-Sicilian Captures,
3 Id. 192; The Army of The Deccan, 2 Knapp, P. C. 152, and note.
% 8 Cranch, 137.
* 4 Id. 2.
112 Russell & Alylne, 35.
9 Crancb, 859.
11 Id. 133.
t- 8 Dallas, 6.

f

Dec. 1864.]

MRS.

ALEXANDER'S

COTTOI.

Argument for the claimant.

Messrs. Corwine and Sringer, contra:
1. Fort De Russy was captured by the Government forces
about the middle of March, and our forces held complete
possession -though
temporary- for about eight weeks.
During this time, an election took place for delegates to a
State Convention; which Convention was afterwards held,
and s new Constitution formed for that State. Coming after
the army had driven the enemy from all that part of Louisiana, and had taken possession of it,-so that her, loyal
citizens could hold a civil election at which they expressed
their constitutional voice for delegates to a State Convention,-the flotilla, commanded by Commodore Porter, which
came there to assist General Banks in clearing out the rebel
army, seized the cotton in question. Is it possible to affirm
of it that it was seized in a country then enemies' P
The circumstances of the United States and these insurgent States are peculiar, and different from any presented in
the books. In the first place, bands of men have formed
combinations to resist the authority of the United States in
portions of its territory. They deny and will not recognize
the laws and authorities of the United States, and have taken
up arms to enable them to hold our territory forcibly, to the
exclusion of our law officers. We are opposing this rebellious force by armed force, in order that we may reassert
our Government's constitutional authority over this territory. As fast as we can repossess ourselves of this territory,
which we are constantly doing in greater or less quantity,
we invite the people to resume their political and civil rights,
and we extend to them the protection of law, supported by
our military power. We have done this in West Virginia
and in many other places, and those countries are now in
the full enjoyment of' their political and civil rights. Yet
those territories and their people were as much under rebel
rule and dominion at one time as is now that part of Louisiana under consideration. The enemy has been frequently
in the territory of West Virginia-at this date, February,
1865, the best secured of any-in as strong force as he now
is in Louisiana. The duration of his possession has no.

MRs. ALEXANDEK'S COTTON.

E[Sup. CIL

Argument for the claimant.

thing to do with the rights of the people restoredto them by
the act of our Government in resuming its lawful authority
over the country. The moment the people were relieved
from rebel military rule, the political and civil power of the
usurpers was broken, and the jurisdiction and authority of
the United States was supreme. It gave to the loyal citizen
that dominion over his property, accompanied with rights of
property, such as he enjoyed before this rebel rule intervened.
We have, therefore, only to inquire whether we held that
part of Louisiana as reconquered territory for the time we
were in possession? Was rebel rule at an end for that time?
While we maintained the exclusive possession, we held it by
a valid title; and it does not matter whether there was a full
legal resumption of political and civil authority. It was such
conquest and such possession as have been held by all authorities, and by our own Government, valid, and as entitling
the loyal citizen to the enjoyment of his rights of citizenship
and property. No act of the sovereign afterwards, whether
the country is lost again by force of the enemies' reconquest,
or by treaty and cession, can change it. The rights which
accrued to the citizen by the resumption of this authority by
his sovereign have become fixed; and if the subject-matter
is within the reach of our courts, he may successfully assert
them. The legal disabilities which were cast upon him and
his property by the forcible and fraudulent occupancy of the
country by insurgents, were removed the moment the United
States wrested the territory from them and reasserted its
authority.* It is a matter of common knowledge that vast
amounts of property, reaching in value millions of dollars,
were released by this single month's possession of our authorities, and that it found its way into the loyal portions of the
United States by the simple volition of its owners. The
legality of the title thus acquired has never been questioned.
This case does not differ from those cases in any respect, except that these naval boats, instead of Government trans.
* Halleck's International Law, 789, and authorities there cited.

Dec. 1864.]

.Mis.

ALEXANDER'S

O0TTON.

Argument for the claimant.

ports, took out this claimant's cotton. Both were taken out
while we held this exclusive possession, and there was no
enemy there to oppose. The navy might as well have cap.
tured that cotton of citizens while afloat, or after it reached
its destination in the loyal States, as to have taken Mrs.
Alexander's cotton. The legal status of the cotton when it
reached the loyal States was no better than it was while on
Red River, within our lines and jurisdiction. The principle
which made the title valid in one place lost none of its
power, in that respect, in the other place. It was the occupancy and resumption of authority by the United Stateis, in that
country, which made the title in the loyal citizen valid. There was
no "illegal traffic," such as this court referred to in The
Amy Warwick, cited by Mr. Assistant Attorney Ashton,
which stamped this cotton as "enemies' property." It was
not at that time within the control of the enemy, so that
he could use it for war purposes. It is wholly freed from
that difficulty.
The rule being that the test is the predicament of the property,
not the sentiment or acts of the owner, the court will look
at such predicament only. If the owner is not under the
jurisdiction and control of the enemy, then his property,
being at the time of the alleged capture free from that control, is not in the predicament which makes it ex necessitati rei,
enemy property.
If there were no positive law authorizing the court to recognize and enforce these rights with respect to the territory
of which we are daily repossessing ourselves, the rule which
we are contending for should be declared by this court as a
matter of public policy, growing out of the necessities of
our peculiar political situation. As one consequence of this
rebellion, rules of property and of personal rights have been
and must be declared by the courts, for which there is no
clear judicial or legislative precedents. As there should be
no right without a remedy, so the courts will not suffer our
loyal people, who have been, themselves and their property
also, placed in peril by this unfortunate conjunction of poli.
tical circumstances, for which they are in nowise responsible,

MRS.

ALEXADEPR'S

CUOTTO4.

[Sup. Ot,

Argument for the claimant.

to go away without redress. When delivered from these
perils by the act of the Government, they and their property
should be subjects of fostering care by all departments of the
Government, where no rights are to be violated and no welldefined principles ignored. The frequency with which these
cases must recur, and the vast magnitude of the interests
involved, will not fail to commend them all to the favorable
consideration of the court. In Michell v. Harmony-* this
court said: "Where the owner (of property) has done nothing to forfeit his rights, every public officer is bound to respect them, whether he finds the property in a foreign or
hostile country or in his own."
It is impossible to fix disloyalty on Mrs. Alexander. She
took the oath of allegiance at the earliest practicable date.
There was no one to administer it to her before the date
when she actually took it. Her loyalty saves her property
from the operation of the act of 6th of August, 1861, confiscating property used for insurrectionary purposes; and
from that also of July 17, 1862, authorizing the President to
seize and confiscate the property of rebels. It would be
unreasonable to ask, that a widow, sixty-five years old, of infirm health, probably, who has lived in one spot-a plantation, in a rural parish-for thirty years, should leave the
only home she has on earth, and follow the army of the
United States, under penalty of being declared judicially a
"rebel," and of having her estate confiscated. In such a
case, the question of loyalty is to be tested by animus and
acts. Here all establish loyalty.
Neither does her case come within the Abandoned Property Act of March 12, 1863. It is no part of this case that
Mrs. Alexander ever abandoned her plantation. On the
contrary, much of the argument of the other side proceeds
on a supposition-a true one-that she remained on it; and
so remained in an enemy's country.
2. If the property is not enemy's property at all, it matters not whether it be one sort of product or another. It is
* 13 Howard, 115.

Dec. 1864.]

MRs. ALEXANDER'S

415

COTTON.

Argument for the claimant.

to be protected, being private. "Private property bn land
is now," says Halleck,* 1aas a genekal rule of war, exempt
from seizure or confiscatioh; and this general exemption extends even to cases of absolute and unqualified conquest."
There are exceptions to this rule; it is true. 1st. Confiscaor seizukes by way of penalty for military offences;
2d. Forced contributions for the support of the invading
armies, or as an indemnity fbi the expenses of maintaining
order, and affording protection to the conquered inhabitants;
and, 3d. Property taken on the field of battle, or in storming a fortress or town.t But there is no pretence that the
seizure here is on any such grounds.
If the property were on general grounds liable to seizure,
Mrs. Alexander's havihg taken the oath, should save it. The
good faith of the Government is involved. She took the
oath of allegiance, in accordance with the invitation of the
President's proclamation, December 8, 1863. She is entitled
to an honest and faithful compliahce on the part of the
Government, with all the tekms of pardon and exemption as
to herself and her property of that proclamation. It is not
acting in gbod faith with her to take her property and treat
it as enemy property, when she 1o pronptly responded to
this Executive invitation. That proclamation, having been
issued by the President of the United States, in so far forth
as it held out inducements and made promises, and persons
acted under and in pursuance with it, constitutes a legal
contract, which shall be alike binding on the Government
and such persons. The inoment she took the oath prescribed by that proclamatioh, she was entitled to the full
benefit of the "restoration of all rights of property," as
thei3ein promised, so far as this cotton is concerned.
8. There can be no valid capture by the navy of enemy property
on land. What, in the fikst Place, is this Red River? It is a
wholly inlahd sti'eam. Its moUth is more than three hundred miles from the ocean. But this cotton Was not on the
river even. It was a mile away from it, stored in a cotton.
* International Law, p 456.

t Id. 457.

MRs. ALEXANDER'S COTTON.

[Sulp.

Ot

Argument for the claimant.

gin house. There is no decision of this court recognizing
right of capture by the navy in such cases. The act of July
2, 1864, forbids it. There are some decisions of courts other
than this, which, it is contended, go to the necessary extent.
But none of them, we think, really do. Jennings v. Carson
simply decides, that the District Court has admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, and makes no reference to the jurisdiction in captures made on land. The same observation is
true of The Brig Allerta, of Glass v. The Sloop Betsey, and of
Talbot v. Jansen, cited on the other side.
Counsel argue that the general jurisdiction in maritime
and admiralty, which these cases decide as belonging to the
District Court, draws after it the jurisdiction of land captures, because it has been recognized in the Prize Courts of
England. But the Prize Courts of England derive this peculiar jurisdiction from municipal statutes. To give the court
jurisdiction of captures on land, in any other case, it must
appear that the property so captured belonged in some way
to a capture made on the sea, as in the case of Lindo v. -Rodney. And what sort of a "navy" were these inland boats?
As to the English cases cited by Judge Story in his Essay
in 2 Wheaton, it is enough to say, that the case of Le Caux
v.Eden, is the leading one, and that finally went off on the
proposition that the treaties, laws of England, and the orders
of the Admiral, justified the seizure of the property on land.
Lord Mansfield, who decided the case, in the note to it, put
his decision on that ground; the facts of the case did not
require him to go further. He also held that when property
is once captured on the high seas, and it is unlawfully carried ashore, the captors may recapture it on the land.
It is worthy of remark that Lindo v. -Rodney, and Alexander v. The -Duke of Wellington, cited to sustain the position
that lawful captures may be made on land by naval forces,
both disclose the important fact that that jurisdiction is derived from municipal law. Lord Mansfield cites and relies
upon treaties, acts of Parliament, &c., to sustain this jurisdiction. The statutes are 17 Geo. H, c. 84, § 2, and 29 Geo
I, c. 34, § 2, in which power is given to the Lords of the

Dec. 1864.]

Mrs.

ALEXANDER'S COTTON.

417

Opinion of the court.

Admiralty, to grant commissions, &c., "for attacking or
takiig with such. ship, or with the crew thereof, any place
or fortress upon the land," &c. Having .cited them, Lord
Mansfield says, "Upon these authorities, there can be no
doubt ,of-the right to make landcaptures." And so in the
case of Alexander v. The -Duke of Wellington, it Appears that
the proceedings sought to be reviewed, were in pursuance
to the statute 54 Geo. ]1I, c. 86, § 2, where land captures by
the army are provided for, and prize-money awarded the
officers and men engaged in the capture as booty.
1o casehas ever arisen in this country which has made it
necessary to decide the question broadly. This court, in
Brown v. United States, cited on the other side, rather disclaims the doctrine that captures, as prizes of war, could be
made, on land, without further legislation by Congress.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This controversy concerns seventy-two bales of cotton
captured in JMay, t864, on the plantation of Mrs. Elizabeth
Alexander, on the Red River, by a party sent from the
Ouachita, a gunboat belonging to Admiral Porter's expedition. The United ,States insist on the condemnation of the
cotton aslawful maritime prize. Mrs. Alexander claims it
as her private property. The facts may be briefly stated.
In the spring of 1864, a naval force of the United States,
under Rear Admiral Porter, co-operating with a military
force on land, under Major-General Banks, proceeded up
Red River towards Shreveport, in Louisiana. The whole
region at the time was in rebel occupation, and under rebel
rule. Fort De Russy, about midway between the mouth of
the river and Alexandria, was captured by the Union troops
about the .middle of March. The insurgent troops gradually
retired until aconsiderable district of country on Red River
came .under the control of the national forces. This control,
however, was of brief continuance. An unexpected reverse
befell the expedition. The army under General Banks was
defeated, ;and was soon after entirely withdrawn from the
Red River country. The naval force, under Admiral Porter,
VOL. 11.

27

MRS.

ALEXANDER'S

COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

necessarily followed, and rebel rule and ascendency were
again complete and absolute. The military occupation by
the Union troops lasted rather less than eight weeks. Its
duration was measured by the time required for the advance
and retreat of the army and navy. The Parish of Avoyelles
was a part of the district thus temporarily occupied; and
the plantation of Mrs. Alexander was in this parish, and
upon the river. The seventy-two bales of cotton in controversy were raised on the plantation, and were stored in a
warehouse about a mile from the river bank. A party from
the Ouachita, under orders from the naval commander,
landed on the plantation about the 26th of March, and took
possession of the cotton. It was sent to Cairo; libelled as
prize of war in the District Court for the Southern District
of Illinois; claimed by Mrs. Alexander; and, by decree of
the District Court, restored to her. The United States now
ask for the reversal of this decree, and the condemnation of
the property as maritime prize.
After the seizure of the cotton, Mrs. Alexander took the
oath required by the President's proclamation of amnesty.
The evidence in relation to her previous personal loyalty is
somewhat conflicting. She had furnished mules and slaves,
involuntarily as alleged, to aid in the construction of the
rebel Fort De Russy. She now remains in the rebel territory. Before the retreat of the Union troops, elections are
stated to have been held, under military auspices, for delegates to a constitutional convention about to meet in New
Orleans.
These facts present the question: Was this cotton lawful
maritime prize, subject to the prize jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States?
There can be no doubt, we think, that it was enemies'
property. The military occupation by the national military
forces was too limited, too imperfect, too brief, and too precarious to change the enemy relation created for the country
and its inhabitants by three years of continuous rebellion;
interrupted, at last, for a few weeks; but immediately renewed, and ever since maintained. The Parish of Avoyelles,

Dec. 1864.]

]MRs. ALEXANDER'S COTTON.
Opinion of the court.

which included the cotton plantation of Mrs. Alexander, included also Fort De Russy, constructed in part by labor from
the plantation. The rebels reoccupied the fort as soon as it
was evacuated by the Union troops, and have since kept
possession.
It is said, that though remaining in rebel territory, Mrs.
Alexander has no personal sympathy with the rebel cause,
and that her property therefore cannot be regarded as enemy
property; but this court cannot inquire into the personal
character and dispositions of individual inhabitants of enemy
territory. We must be governed by the principle of public
law, so often announced from this bench as applicable alike
to civil and international wars, that all the people of each
State or district in insurrection against the United States,
must be regarded as enemies, until by the action of the
legislature and the executive, or otherwise, that relation is
thoroughly and permanently changed.
'We attach no importance, under the circumstances, to the
elections said to have been held for delegates to the constitutional convention.
Being enemies' property, the cotton was liable to capture
and confiscation by the adverse party.* It is true that this
rule, as to property on land, has received very important
qualifications from usage, from the reasonings of enlightened
publicists and from judicial decisions. It may now be regarded as substantially restricted "to special cases dictated
by the necessary operation of the war,"t and as excluding,
in general, "the seizure of the private property of pacific
persons for the sake of gain."I The commanding general
may determine in what special cases its more stringent application is required by military emergencies; while considerations of public policy and positive provisions of law,
and the general spirit of legislation, must indicate the cases
in which its application may be properly denied to the property of non-combatant enemies.
In the case before us, the capture seems to have been jus* Prize Cases, 2 Black, 687.

t- I Kent 92.

ICId. 98.

MRS. ALEXANDER'S

[Sup. or.

COTTON.

Opinion of the court.

tified by the peculiar character of the property and by legislation. It is well known that cotton has constituted the
chief reliance of the rebels for means to purchase the munitions of war in Europe. It is matter of history, that rather
than permit it to come into the possession of the national
troops, the rebel government has everywhere devoted it,
however owned, to destruction. The value of that destroyed
at New Orleans, just before its capture, has been estimated
at eighty millions of dollars. It is in the record before us,
that on this very plantation of Mrs. Alexander, one year's
crop was destroyed in apprehension of an advance of the
Union forces. The rebels regard it as one of their main
sinews of war; and no principle of equity or just policy required, when the national occupation was itself precarious,
that it should be spared from capture and allowed to remain,
in case of the withdrawal of the Union troops, an element
of strength to the rebellion.
And the capture was justified by legislation as well as by
public policy. The act of Congress to confiscate property
used for insurrectionary purposes, approved August 6th,
1861, declares all property employed in aid of the rebellion,
with consent of the owners, to be lawful subject of prize
and capture wherever found.* And it further provided, by
the act to suppress insurrection, and for other purposes,
approved July 17, 1862,t that the property of persons who
had aided the rebellion, and should not return to allegiance
after the President's warning, should be seized and confiscated. It is in evidence that Mrs. Alexander was a rebel
enemy at the time of the enactment of this act; that she
contributed to the erection of Fort De Russy, after the passage of the act of July, 1862, and so comes within the spirit,
if not within the letter, of the provisions of both.
If, in connection with these acts, the provisions of the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act of March 12, 1863,$
be considered, it will be difficult to conclude that the capture under consideration was not warranted by law. This
* 12 Stat. at Large, 319.

Id. 691

t

Id. 820.

Dec. 1864.]

MRs.

ALEXANDER'S COTTON.
Opinion of the court.

last-named act evidently contemplated captures by the naval
forces distinct from maritime prize; for the Secretary of the
Navy, by his order of March 31, 1863, directed all officers
and sailors to turn over to the agents of the Treasury Department all property captured or seized in any insurrectionary district, excepting lawful maritime prize.*
Were this otherwise, the result would .not be different, for
Mrs. Alexander, being now a resident in enemy territory,
and in lw an enemy, can have no standing in any court of
the United States so long as that relation shall exist. Whatever might have been the effect of the amnesty, had she
removed to a loyal State after taking the oath, it can have
none on her relation as enemy voluntarily resumed by continued residence and interest.
But this reasoning, while it supports the lawfulness of the
capture, by no means warrants the conclusion that the property captured was maritime prize. We have carefully considered all the cases cited by the learned counsel for the captors, and are satisfied that neither of them is an authority
for that conclusion. In no one of these cases does it appear
that private property on land was held to be maritime prize;
and on the other hand, we have met with no case in which the
capture of such private property was held unlawful except
that of Thorshaven.t In this case such a capture was held
unlawful, not because the property was private, but because
it was protected by the terms of a capitulation. The rule in
the British Court of Admiralty seems to have been that the
court would take jurisdiction of the capture, whether of
public or private property; and condemn the former for the
benefit of the captors, under the prize acts of Parliament,
but retain the latter till claimed, or condemn it to the
Crown, to be disposed of as justice might require. But it is
hardly necessary to go into the examination of these English
adjudications, as our own legislation supplies all needed
guidance in the decision of this case.
* Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the Finances,. December
10, 1863, p. 438.
t Edwards, 107

MRS. ALEXANDER'S

COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

There is certainly no authority to condemn any property
as prize for the benefit of the captors, except under the law
of the country in whose service the capture is made; and
the whole authority found in our legislation is contained in
the act. for the better government of the navy, approved
July 17th, 1862. By the second section of the act,* it is
provided that the proceeds of all ships and vessels, and the
goods taken on board of them, which shall be adjudged
good prize, shall be the sole property of the captors, or, in
certain cases, divided equally between the captors and the
United States. By the twentieth section, all provisions of
previous acts inconsistent with this act are repealed. This
act excludes property on land from the category of prize for
the benefit of captors; and seems to be decisive of the case
so far as the claims of captors are concerned.
As a case of lawfully captured property, not for the benefit
of captors, its disposition is controlled by the laws relating
to such property. By these laws and the orders under them,
all officers, military and naval, and all soldiers and sailors,
are strictly enjoined, under severe penalties, to turn over
any such property which may come to their possession to
the agents of the Treasury Department, and these agents
are required to sell all such property to the best advantage,
and pay the proceeds into the National Treasury. Any
claimant of the property may, at any time within two years
after the suppression of the rebellion, bring suit in the Court
of Claims, and on proof of ownership of the property, or of
title to the proceeds, and that the claimant has never given
aid or comfort to the rebellion, have a decree for the proceeds, deducting lawful charges. In this war, by this liberal
and beneficent legislation, a distinction is made between
those whom the rule of international law classes as enemies.
All, who have in fact maintained a loyal adhesion to the
Union, are protected in their rights to captured as well as
abandoned property.
It seems that, in further pursuance of the same views, by
* 12 Stat. at Large, 606.

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.

Syllabus.

an act of the next session, Congress abolished maritime
prize on inland waters, and required captured vessels and
goods on board, as well as all other captured property, to be
turned over to the Treasury agents, or to the proper officers
of the courts. This act became a law a few weeks after the
capture now under consideration, and does not apply to it.
It is cited only in illustration of the general policy of legislation, to mitigate, as far as practicable, the harshness of the
rules of war, and preserve for loyal owners, obliged by circumstances to remain in rebel States, all property, or its
proceeds, to which they have just claims, and which may in
any way come to the possession of the Government or its
officers.
We think it clear that the cotton in controversy was not
maritime prize, but should have been turned over to the
agents of the Treasury Department, to be disposed of under
the act of March 12th, 1863. Not having been so turned
over, but having been sold by order of the District Court,
its proceeds should now be paid into the Treasury of the
United States, in order that the claimant, when the rebellion
is suppressed, or she has been able to leave the rebel region,
may have the opportunity to bring her suit in the Court of
Claims, and, on making the proof required by the act, have
the proper decree.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded, with directions to
Dismss THE LIBEL.

TOBEY v. LEoNARDS.
1. Positive statements in an answer to a bill in equity-the answer being
responsive to the bill-are not to be overcome, except by.more testimony than that of one witness; but by such superior testimony they
may be overcome; and where, as was the fact here, seven witnesses
asserted the contrary of what was averred in such answer, the answer
will be d-sregarded.

