Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.

Syllabus.

an act of the next session, Congress abolished maritime
prize on inland waters, and required captured vessels and
goods on board, as well as all other captured property, to be
turned over to the Treasury agents, or to the proper officers
of the courts. This act became a law a few weeks after the
capture now under consideration, and does not apply to it.
It is cited only in illustration of the general policy of legislation, to mitigate, as far as practicable, the harshness of the
rules of war, and preserve for loyal owners, obliged by circumstances to remain in rebel States, all property, or its
proceeds, to which they have just claims, and which may in
any way come to the possession of the Government or its
officers.
We think it clear that the cotton in controversy was not
maritime prize, but should have been turned over to the
agents of the Treasury Department, to be disposed of under
the act of March 12th, 1863. Not having been so turned
over, but having been sold by order of the District Court,
its proceeds should now be paid into the Treasury of the
United States, in order that the claimant, when the rebellion
is suppressed, or she has been able to leave the rebel region,
may have the opportunity to bring her suit in the Court of
Claims, and, on making the proof required by the act, have
the proper decree.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded, with directions to
Dismss THE LIBEL.

TOBEY v. LEoNARDS.
1. Positive statements in an answer to a bill in equity-the answer being
responsive to the bill-are not to be overcome, except by.more testimony than that of one witness; but by such superior testimony they
may be overcome; and where, as was the fact here, seven witnesses
asserted the contrary of what was averred in such answer, the answer
will be d-sregarded.

TOBEY v. LEONARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2 A man may ]awfully transfer all his interest in property which is about
to become the subject of suit, for the purpose of making himself a witness in such suit; and while his testimony is to be carefully, and, perhaps, suspiciously scrutinized, when contradicting the positive statements made by a defendant in equity responsively to the complainant's
bill, such testimony is still to be judged of by the ordinary rules which
govern in the law of evidence, and to be credited or discredited accordingly.
8, The introduction of children as witnesses in an angry family quarrel
rebuked by the court.

Tis was a suit relating to certain transactions of a man
of advanced years, and of somewhat marked characteristics
and temper, named Jonathan Tobey, a farmer and old resident, as his father, whose name he bore, had been before
him, of the neighborhood of New Bedford, in Massachusetts.
Mr. Tobey, it seemed, had, through a long life, been an
active person in county affairs of the region round New Bedford; a road contractor for the county, &c. &c. As one
consequence, either of this fact, or of a temper naturally
inclined to controversies, he was not unfrequently in suits;
and among other suits had a bitter one-prolonged through
twenty-five years-with his county.* "It occasioned considerable feeling. There was a good deal of discussion about it.
Tobey issued one or more pamphlets for distribution, lHe
had some very warm personal supporters, and there were
some who were opposed to him. He was a noted man." The
present controversy, although it had nothing to do with
county concerns, seemed to have excited more interest in
the neighborhood of its origin than, as a private controversy,
properly belonged to it. One cause for this was, perhaps,
that it had the element of a family quarrel. Tobey, Senior,
or, as he is otherwise above styled, Jonathan Tobey, in order
to be himself a witness in the cause, had sold all his interest in the subject of suit, once his own, to a son named Stephen Tobey, who was now suing his own brother-in-law, one
* Tobey v. County of Bristol, 3 Story, 800; the last case apparently ever
decided by Story, J. Tobey, it was said, had removed from Massachusetts
to Rhode Island, in order that he might sue in the Federal court, and get
ais case before, what all admitted, was an unprejudiced tribunal.

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY v. LEONARDS.
Statement of the case.

Horatio Leonard, and a certain Nehemiah Leonard, father of
this brother-in-law Horatio. Numerous members of the
family of Tobey,-William Tobey, Leonard Tobey, Joshua
Tobey,-came to the support of their brother or kinsman;
Mrs. Hannah Tobey, at the age of seventy, coming with
them; while minors from the house of Leonard-Master
Horatio Herbert Leonard, Master Stephen Henry Leonard,
and Miss Laura Anna Leonard-the last at the age of eleventestifying to what had been said in "the nursery"-were
produced in support of theirs. Twenty witnesses were called
to impeach Tobey, Senior's, character, including, as the
counsel for the defendants noted in their brief, "mayors,
members of the legislature, councillors, justices of the peace
and of the quorum, county commissioners, deputy sheriffs,
city marshals, aldermen, assessors, city treasurers and collectors, trustees of the lunatic State hospitals, keepers of the
jails, and overseers of the house of correction;" while these
were met, by twenty, and seven added, not less worthy of
belief, as Tobey's counsel seemed to signify, in the fact, that
their judgment and integrity had evidence quite as good as
the preamble of a patent, and that their posts of honor had
been the private station. These all testified,, that Tobey,
Senior, was entirely worthy of belief; and. some descriptions
which he gave of the boundaries of his generally described
"homestead" hereinafter mentioned, and which, descriptions
of his it was attempted to attack, seemed to have been more
accurately conceived by him and told than they were either
conceived of or told by others who denied them.
The suit, therefore, was somewhat special in its cireumstances; and in its questions of fact-the form into which it
was resolved by this court--presented conflict in the evidence.
The outline case on which the proceeding, one in equity,
rested-as derived from the record, and from the statement
of the learned Justice (Wayne), who presented the whole
with great detail and clearness before giving the judgment
of the court-was essentially as follows:
In 1830, Tobey, Senior, owned certain real estate situated

TOBEY v. LEONARDS

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

in New Bedford and Fairhaven; part patrimonial, part acquired by purchase. For the two preceding years he had
been engaged in building a county road, %ndhad been obliged to obtain loans for that purpose; and, among others,
one of $5000 of Mr. William Rotch, Junior, a gentleman of
fortune, who had wanted him to make the county road by a
spedal route, and who seems to have been kindly disposed
to him. Finding, in 1830, that he could net obtain paymeni
of the county of what he claimed, except by a long litigation, he made, without- request, a mortgage to Mr. Rotch to
secure this indebtedness. The mortgage conveys "my
homestead farm, situate in the said New Bedford, being the
same which I hold by virtue of the last will and testament
of my father, Jonathan Tobey." After the making of this
mortgage, he bought, in 1837, a wood-lot of one Sweet;
and, in 1839, obtained title to another tract of land from the
commonwealth. In 1846 he conveyed all his real estate in
New Bedford and Fairhaven to one of his sons named Stephen, and another son, Leonard, in mortgage, to secure a
debt which had been due for a long time to this son-as
it seemed, a dutiful one; Leonard, in 1848, assigning all
his interest in the mortgage to his brother Stephen. In
1849, Mr. Rotch made peaceable entry upon the premises
mortgaged to him, for the purpose of foreclosing his mortgage. From 1830 down to the filing of this bill, old Mr. Tobey remained in possession of all the property referred to in
both mortgages, and used and occupied them as his own.
He never paid any interest or any part of the principal of the
Rotch mortgage, and never paid any rent for the premises;
and, during the lifetime of Mr. Rotch, was never called upon
so to do. In 1858, the administrators of Mr. Rotch, then
lately deceased, brought an action of ejectment against him
to remove him from the mortgaged premises. When this
action was about to ripen into a judgment, efforts were made
by Tobey, the father, and his son, Stephen, to raise money
to buy the mortgage; it being known by them that it could
be bought for considerably less than the amount of it
Among others, Tobey, Senior, applied to his son-in-law

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.
Statement of the case.

Iforatio Leonard, to obtain, through him, assistance of his
father, Nehemiah Leonard. The Leonards ascertained that
the mortgage could be bought for $2500, and that they then
could have a year to pay it in. They then informed old Mr.
Tobey, as was alleged by them, the Tobeys, that if they, the
Tobeys (father and son Stephen), could provide for the payment of this amount before it would fall due, and would
give as security all Tobey, Senior's, real estate, and would
transfer Stephen's interest under his mortgage, they would
help them by purchasing the Rotch mortgage. The Leonards, it was certain, did purchase for themselves, or for
somebody else, the mortgage of Mr. Rotch.
At the time of the negotiation it was proposed, according
to the statement of the Tobeys, that Tobey, Senior, and his
son Stephen, should cut $1000 of wood off the place towards
the debt. Tobey, Senior, was at this time sick, and Horatio
Leonard got the deeds from the Tobeys to him drawn up.
It had been agreed, as was said by the Tobeys, that a writing
should be also drawn up, stating the terms upon which the
property should be reconveyed. No such writing was ever
made. Leonard, according to the account given by the
Tobeys, insisted on having absolute deeds and quit-claims,
with a release of dower by the wife of Jonathan Tobey,
an aged woman, of Tobey's other property, as well as of
the homestead, in order, as he said, that the title might
be clear on its face, and that he might borrow money, if
he wanted to do so; and such deeds were made. After the
deeds passed, on the same day, Horatio Leonard applied to
his father-in-law, old Mr. Tobey, for a bill of sale of all the
stock and farming utensils on the farm, which was given
him.
After this, Stephen Tobey began to cut wood, and cut
about one hundred cords. Horatio Leonard also sold to one
Hawes standing wood to the amount of $840. In June,
Horatio Leonard became embarrassed in business; and his
father, Nehemiah, undertook to aid him. To secure himself
in so doing, he took the Tobey estate from his son and sold
it. Old Tobey and his son Stephen then made application

TOBEY V. LEONAUDS.

[Sup. ut

Statement of the case.

for a reconveyance to them of this property, in accordance
with what they called or deemed their right, offering to pay;
as they said that it had been agreed they should have a
right to do.
Upon this application, Leonard, the father, refused to
convey to the Tobeys, except on payment of $5000; and,
upon their refusal to take the land upon these terms, he sold
it to the defendants, R. & J. Ashley, for that sum; they agreeing to convey to one Spooner a portion of the estate.
Stephen Tobey, who, by his father's transfer to him, was
sole party in interest, now filed his bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Massachusetts District, against
all these parties; that is to say, against Leonard, father and
son, Ashley, Spooner, for a reconveyance, as above said; for
compensation in waste and damage in cutting and removing
the wood and grass,-the complainant offering to perform
what he called his part of the agreement, by paying such
sums of money and doing such other acts as the court should
deem equitable and just.
The Leonards, father and son, filed separate answers responsive to the bill, and denying positively and specifically its allegations. But the testimony of seven unimpeached witnesses,
Messrs. Jones Robinson, Edward Chase, George Barney,
Sampson Reynolds, Alden Lawrence, Leonard Tobey, and
William Tobey, tended to show, or did show, admissions by
the Leonards that the transaction was a mortgage only, or in
the nature of one.
On the other hand, the testimony of T. M. Stetson, Esq.,
a young professional gentleman of good character in New
Bedford, who had been counsel of the, elder Tobey and was
more or less familiar with the case, and with the understand,
ing of both Tobey and Leonard, as expressed to him at cerlain times and places, and under circumstances not, perhaps,
the best to educe the fullest ideas of the parties, went to a
different conclusion. It appeared, however, as a fact, that
after Leonard, the son, had got a conveyance from the
Tobeys, he wished his father-in-law, Tobey, Senior, to devise the property to him in his will; a draft of which he

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY v. LEONARDS.
Opinion of the court.

caused to be prepared to this effect without Mr. Tobey's
knowledge.
Theother defendants in the case, the Ashleys, Spooner,
and Hawes, also filed answers, denying the allegations, but
leaving it reasonably plain that they were not purchasers
from the elder Leonard, without notice of the claim of
Tobey.
Some defence was made too, in supplemental answers
Betting up a conditional conveyance by Tobey, Senior, to
one Clap, and some similar conveyance to the Wareham
Bank.
The Massachusetts Statute of Frauds thus enacts: "No
trust concerning lands, except such as may arise or result by
implication of law, shall be created or declared, unless by an
instrument in writing, signed by the party creating or declaring the same, or by his attorney."
The court below dismissed the bill, the presiding judge
giving~an opinion at length. On appeal, the case was ably
argued here by Messrs. Sydney Bartlett and Thaxter, for the
appellant, Tobey, and by Messrs. Olney and Thomas, contra; the
argument turning, in part, on the point how far the case was
affected by the Massachusetts Statute of Frauds; a matter
thought by this court unnecessary to be considered by it.
Mr. Justice WAYN -, having stated the pleadings, delivered the opinion of the court:
This cause has been argued with ability, and we are
brought to the consideration of it with every advantage, in
any way applicable to the rights of the parties in a court of
equity, by the written opinion of our brother who tried it,
and gave the decree in the Circuit Court.
The allegation is that the purchase made by the Leonards
of the Roteh heirs was in behalf and for the benefit of the
Tobeys, and that the conveyances by the Tobeys were made
as security for the payment by them of the notes for twentyfive hundred dollars, given to the Rotch heirs. This is the
issue between the parties, and the question is which of them
is sustained by the proofs.

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.

[Sup. ct

Opinion of the court.

" Denials in answer to a bill in equity to the extent of their
relation to facts within the knowledge of the respondent,
when they are responsive to the allegations of the bill of
complaint, must be received as evidence. Courts of equity
cannot decree against such denials in the answer of the respondent on the testimony of a single witness. On the contrary, the rule is universal, under such circumstances, that
the complainant must have two witnesses, or one witness
and corroborative circumstances, or he is not entitled to relief. The rule stands upon the reason, that when a complainant calls upon the respondent to answer allegations, he
admits the answer to be evidence; and if it is testimony in
the case, it is equal to the testimony of any other witnesses,
and the complainant cannot prevail if the balance of proof
is not in his favor; he must have circumstances in addition
to his single witness in order to turn the balance."*
This, no doubt, is the general rule of chancery ;t but it is
one which does not, in the present case, apply, for here
seven unimpeached witnesses state that in business interviews either with Horatio or Nehemiah Leonard, in relation
to their purchase of the homestead farm, or to matters in
some way connected with it, the defendants, one or the
other of them, said, in language which could not be mistaken, that the purchase of the Rotch mortgage had been
made to assist Jonathan Tobey to pay the debt due upon it.
We proceed to state this testimony, and the impressions
made upon us by it.
Horatio Leonard said to the witness Jones Robinson, that
he himself and his father had given a note for it payable in
a year for $2500, and that the complainant and his father
must get the wood off to meet it, and that he only wanted
them to pay the note and to pay himself for his trouble; and
added it was to be paid for from the wood, and if there was
not enough, that he should sell some of the real estate.
* Opinion in this case on the circuit per Clifford, J. See, also, Clarke V.
Van Tiersdyke, 9 Cranch, 160; Hughes v. Blake, 6 Wheaton, 468; cited by
the learned justice.
f Parker t. Phetteplace, I Wallace, 684.

Dec. 18614.]

TOBEY v. LEONARDS.

Opinion of the court.

Another witness, Edward Chase, swears that Horatio Leonard said to him, after relating the circumstances of the purchase of the Rotch mortgage, in connection with the impoverished condition of the Tobeys, that he had taken hold
to help them.
George Barney, a third witness, says that he had a conversation with Horatio Leonard; that he mentioned that he had
purchased the farm formerly owned by Jonathan Tobey,
&c., with an intention to sell it back to the owner; that he had
done so to prevent it from going into the hands of strangers,
and to keep a home for the old people, and that he was to be
repaid the money spent in purchasing the farm.
Sampson Reynolds, a fourth witness, swears, that Nehemiah
Leonard said to him that his son had married Jonathan
Tobey's daughter, and that he had a notion to take up the
Rotch mortgage, cutting and selling wood enough to pay
off the debt, and letting the old man have a home there as
long as he lived.
Alden Lawrence, a fifth, testifies that N~ehemiah Leonard
said to him, that he had taken the property for the accommodation of the old gentleman, as he was liable to be turned
out of house and home at any time; took it to preserve a
home for the old folks; and the witness understood him to
say "that he calculated to take the wood, and would then
turn the property back."
Leonard Tobey, the brother of the complainant, and a sixth
witness, deposes that he called upon lNehemiah Leonard,
who, after expressing his regret that there should be a misunderstanding between his son Horatio and Jonathan Tobey,
said, in substance, that he would use his influence to get
Horatio to convey the mortgage to his father and brother,
and that he was willing to give up the place if the money
was refunded. He also said that Jonathan Tobey came to
him as a last resort; that the arrangement was that Horatio
should see that wood enough was cut to meet the notes at
maturity.
Wlam 76bey, the seventh witness, testifies that he was
intimately acquainted with Horatio Leonard for seven years,

ToBEY c.

LEONARDS.

[Sup. ct

Opinion of the court.

including the year 1859, and that he called upon him at his
place of business in Boston in reference to the matter, and
said he had made a proposition to Stephen Tobey, that himself and Stephen should buy the claim of the IRotch heirs;
Stephen to put in his claim; that they should be interested
and improve the farm and occupy it together; and that, if
Stephen should die without heirs, his interest should be willed to
the children of Horatio. He added, that Stephen would not
agree to it, and seemed to have a feeling that it was meant
to take advantage of him. "He expressed the wish that I
would go to N~ew Bedford and bring about the arrangement,
saying that he would pay my expenses. He said his motives
were pure, that he did not know it would be of any use to
him, but thought it would be to his children; that it would
be a good home for Stephen, and his father and mother, and
that he wanted the farm to remain in the family." In reply
to one interrogatory, the witness answered, that, after speaking
of other matters relating to the purchase of the fhrm, Nehemiah Leonard added, that he had at first refused to assist in
raising the money to buy it; that he had finally agreed to it
from the friendly feeling he had for the Tobeys, and his only
object for complying with their wishes and his son's request
was to benefit the family. He also said that Jonathan Tobey
came to him as a last resort, and that the arrangement was
that Horatio should see that wood enough was cut to meet
the notes at maturity.
The testimony of the preceding seven witnesses must be
considered, in connection with that of Jonathan Tobey, who
had sold out all his interest in the property to his son, the
complainant, to enable himself to be a witness upon the trial of
the cause.
Our first remark is, that such a sale for such a purpose is
allowable, and that its lawfulness has been sanctioned by
this court* even when the sale was to a party who had nc
previous interest. We say next that the attempt by the
*

Babcock v. Wyman, 19 Howard, 289.

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.
Opinion of the court.

defendants to discredit Jonathan Tobey as a man of truth is
a failure, in fact, from all that the witnesses, introduced for
such purpose, had said or could say about him, and that all
that they did say has been rebutted by the evidence of witnesses more numerous than the former and s respectable.
Some of them had known Tobey for years in the social relations of his life and in his public business; all of them swore
without any qualification that they believe him to be a correct man, and that they would believe him upon his oath.
No point of his testimony in this case is contradicted by any
witness, and all that he has said is in harmony with the motive which could only have induced him to place himself in
a position to aid in the restoration of his son to his rights, to
whom he owed a debt of six thousand dollars with long years
of interest, against the contrivance of a son-in-law to whom
he owed nothing; and who had succeeded in getting all of
the estate of both for a very insufficient consideration, without the payment of a cent in fact. Tobey's statement of his
agreement with the Leonards to give them a quit-claim for
his entire estate, has not been disproved either directly or
inferentially by circumstances or by any witness, and has
only been denied by the defendants in their answers. He
has neither qualified nor modified the facts to which he has
sworn in his replies to the questions put to him in behalf of
the complainant, or to such as were asked by the defendants.
His answers as to the lands which he owned, besides those
included in the Rotch mortgage, correspond with the subsequent surveys with as much exactness as the circumstances
of his manner of acquiring them permitted. It is appropriate to say that his account is not contradicted in the answers of the defendants to the bill, excepting the effort made
by them to enlarge the quantity of the real estate to be
atttached t'o the homestead farm, contrary to its boundaries,
as it had been conveyed to .Joratio Leonard by the Rotcb
heirs. Tobey's narrative of his connection with William
Rotch, how he became indebted to him for his advances of
money to construct a county road which Mr. Rotch wanted
to be made, to give him a shorter and better route from his
VOL. I.

28

TOBEY v. LEONARD.S

[Sup.. or.

Opinion of the court.

place to Boston, of Mr. :Rotch's offers to advance him money
as he might need it, if he would undertake the construction
of the road, and after he had completed it of the litigation
for the sum due to him under the contract, and of his losses
in consequence, are all substantiated by documents which
show plainly the causes of his pecuniary embarrassments,
and of some of his peculiarities in litigation during a long
life, and up to the time when, as Nehemiah Leonard has
said, "he came to me as a last resort to get his aid to purchase the Rotch mortgage."
The testimony of such a witness as Jonathan Tobey is to
be scrutinized, no doubt, carefully and with great caution,
perhaps with suspicion, before it can be allowed to invalidate
the denials of respondents of the allegations of a bill in
equity. But we have thus faithfully scrutinized it in this
instance, in connection with all the testimony introduced by
the defendants, and without any impression having been
made upon us that Jonathan Tobey had not told the truth
in regard to this transaction.
The witness who is most relied upon by the defendants
to prove that there had been no stipulation for a bond or
written instrument between the parties for a reconveyance
of the property to Jonathan Tobey, is T. M. Stetson, Esq.,
who had been the counsel of Tobey from February, 1858,
to December, 1859.
Fairer or more proper testimony, indeed, than that of this
gentleman could not have been given. It is marked by
forbearance and caution; but, in our opinion, it does not
disprove that there had been a private arrangement between
the parties for a reconveyance of the property to the complainant and his father, when the notes given for the Rotch
farm should have been provided for or were paid. Mr.
Stetson says that he told Jonathan Tobey and the complainant that he could make no defence in the ejectment
suit pending against the plaintiff's title and evidence, and
that it had been delayed by :
suggestion that it might be
3ettled. That afterwards he met Horatio Leonard, whom

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY v. LEONARDSi
Opinion of the court.

he supposed to be a man of means, and told him he thought he
could make it an object to buy the property from the agent of
the Rotch heirs. He refused, on account of there having been
so many conveyances about the property, and on account of
the well-known character of Jonathan Tobey for litigation;
but he said if he could have the whole property without any
question or lawsuit, that he did not know but that he would
take it; but that he must have the whole or none. The witness told this to Mr. Tobey. "We talked over the position
of the suit," says Mr. Stetson, "and Mr. Tobey said that he
might as well discontinue his defence. This I told to Horatio Leonard. A few days after, Jonathan Tobey, Stephen
Tobey and Horatio Leonard came into my office. Horatio
said he had seen the agent for the Rotch heirs, and had
learned their price. He said he was not going to get into
a lawsuit, and would not buy unless he could get a clear
and good title. He also asked me if I considered the Rotch
title such a one. I said that I did, with the evidence which
they had, but that of course it was better to get releases and
quit-claims from every one who thought he had any interest
in the property. I then stated that I thought the better way
for Leonard to get the whole title was to have the Rotch suit
perfected by a judgment and execution levied. Leonard
then said that was what he wanted and must have. Jonathan Tobey seemed to wish Leonard to become the owner
of the property, and executed his quit-claim for it. Stephen
Tobey, after some conversation, executed his release, both
being done before the witness." The papers had been drawn
by Mr. Stetson before the meeting at his office, and we understand him to say that he does not recollect by whom he
was directed to draw them. We also understand him to
say that he knew nothing of any private arrangement between the parties for a reconveyance of the property to the
Tobeys before or after the quit-claim deeds were given in
his office. In fact, Mr. Stetson confines himself to what
occurred and was said there, without alluding to any conversation they may have had elsewhere, leaving the fact of
an understanding for a reconveyance to the testimony in the

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

case as that might be. In our view it is not at all likely
that such an arrangement would have been mentioned to
him by either party, before or when he was advising as
counsel, or as the friend or agent of all of them, how a title
to the property could be perfected. Such a device to defeat
it as that one party was to have a right to a reconveyance
of the property, upon paying the notes with interest, which
had been given in payment for the Rotch mortgage, and
that Horatio Leonard was to have a title in paper to the
homestead farm, and all the real estate besides, with all the
advantages of using both for his own benefit, with a secret
condition to relinquish and reconvey to the Tobeys, would
probably have been met by Mr. Stetson with a suggestion
that a condition of that kind, under all the circumstances
and his position then, would not be consistent with the ethics
of his profession, the law requiring as a fairer mode in such
a case, that such a condition should be a part of the deed, or
if it was to operate as a defeasance, that it must be "made
eoder modo, as the thing to be defeated was created."*
We conclude that the testimony and corroborating circumstances resulting from it, with other proofs in the record,
overrule the denials by the defendants of the allegations.
One of these corroborative proofs is the fact, that after the
Leonards had ascertained that the Rotch mortgage could be
bought for twenty-five hundred dollars upon time, and had
actually bargained with the Rotch heirs for the purchase of
it, according to the described boundaries and contents of the
homestead as set out in the suit to eject Jonathan Tobey,
and ascertained that he was the owner of other real estate
not a part of.it, and that all of the real estate had been mortgaged to the complainant,-Horatio Leonard, under such
circumstances, should have pretended and represented to
Jonathan Tobey and his wife that a quit-claim for the property, with his wife's relinquishment of dower, was necessary to give him a clear title to enable him to borrow money
upon it; and should then have stated to the Tobeys that he
* Shenherd's Touchstone, 890.

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.
Opinion of the court.

must have conveyances for all of the real estate, as a prerequis~te, before he would buy the Rotch mortgage, being then
the purchaser of it, with arrangements then going on for
him to secure from the heirs of Rotch their title. We think
that such a condition was a menace, made at a time when
the Tobeys were helpless and deprived of all hope of getting
relief; and that Horatio Leonard must have known its effect
would be to coerce them to compliance with his terms. Under the circumstances, as they are detailed in the answer of
Horatio Leonard, we view it as a contrivance to vest in himself the whole property, under the guise of buying the Rotch
mortgage for the benefit of Jonathan Tobey. It is difficult,
too, for us to credit the narrative of Horatio Leonard, that
an old man, with an aged wife, pressed by embarrassment
and distress, as he then was, should have been willing to
divest himself of everything that he owned, without the
reservation of something to live upon, and somewhere to
live, and all this with the view of giving everything that he
had in the world to a son-in-law, to keep the homestead in
the latter's family, to the exclusion not only of himself and
wife, but all his other children, and particularly so of his
son, the complainant, to whom he owed at that time six
thousand dollars, with long years of interest, and who had
been for many years the stay and support of his father and
mother. And this aspect of the case, as to the arrangement
for a reconveyance of the property to the Tobeys, when
Horatio Leonard demanded titles to the whole of the property, is much strengthened by the fact that Horatio Leonard, after having got a title to the homestead farm, and conveyances for everything that the Tobeys had, became so
restless concerning the lawfulness of his right to the property, that he made a virtual acknowledgment of Jonathan
Tobey's irterest in it, by asking the old man to make a will
in his favor, and actually employed counsel to draw it, and
that without having previously mentioned his intention to
Mr. Tobey. Mr. Stetson mentions the fact in his testimony,
and the accidental cause of its having been defeated.
We have carefully examined and considered the whole

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

testimony given by the defendants in the case, but it is
without weight sufficient to counterpoise the conclusion ta
which we tend.
iNor is it inappropriate for us to say, concerning much of
the testimony introduced by Horatio Leonard, that, when
the father of a family introduces the juvenile members of it
as witnesses in such a litigation as this has been, it cannot
be done without its being considered as a forlorn effort of
parental obliquity.
As a result, we concur in the opinion,-That it has been
established by the proofs in this case, as the rules of evidence
require the denials of the allegations in a bill of equity to
be disproved, that the payment made by Nehemiah Leonard
and Horatio Leonard, for the purchase of the homestead
farm was intended by them to be an advance of money for
the benefit of Jonathan Tobey: That the conveyances executed by Jonathan Tobey and his wife to Horatio Leonard,
and the release given by the complainant to him, of all his
interest in the real estate purporting to have been conveyed
by them, were intended by the parties to them, and were so
received by Horatio Leonard, as securities for the repayment
of the notes with interest, for twenty-five hundred dollars
paid by Nehemiah and Horatio Leonard to the heirs of Rotch
for the homestead farm, and that the defendant, Horatio
Leonard, agreed to reconvey the real estate property attached
to it, and all the rest of the real estate conveyed to him,
when payment should be made of the sum of money advanced by the Leonards for the benefit of Jonathan Tobey,
and such reasonable compensation as might be claimed by
them for their agency and aid in the transaction. We are
also of opinion,-when the complainant tendered to Nehemiah Leonard the sum necessary to pay the notes with
interest, which had been given to the Rotch heirs, at the
same time asking for a reconveyance of the property,-that
he was entitled to it, and that it should have been made, and
that the subsequent sale of it, as it was made, was in fraud
of the complainant's rights.

Dec. 1864.]

TOBEY V. LEONARDS.
Opinion of the court.

We have carefully considered the answers of R. and J. and
It. Ashley, Spooner, and Hawes, to the allegations of the
complainant's bill. Notwithstanding their denials of them,
their narratives in each of their answers of their purchases
of parcels of the real estate in controversy, connected with
the testimony, establish the fact, that when they respectively
made their purchases of the real estate from Nehemiah
Leonard, or from the Ashleys, that each of them had such
notice of the rights claimed to all of the real estate by the
complainant, and of what had been the rights to it by
Jonathan Tobey before he made a sale of it to the complainant, and that neither of them can be protected, in a
court of equity, as having been bondfide purchasers without
notice.
Our attention has also been given to the supplemental
answers of the defendants to the bill of the complainant, relating to a conditional conveyance by Jonathan Tobey, of
real estate in the County of Bristol, to secure Clapp from any
liability he might incur by indorsing Tobey's paper, and
Tobey's release of his interest and transfer of all his rights
in a conveyan .e to the Wareham Bank. In our opinion,
this interposes no obstacle to rendering a decree for the
complainant.
From the opinion which we have above expressed of the
character of the transaction between the Leonards and the
Tobeys, it becomes unnecessary for us to discuss the point
made by all of the defendants in the cause, that they were
not liable to the complainant, as the statute of Massachusetts
had declared that no action shall be brought upon any sale
of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or of any interest in
or concerning them, unless the promise, contract, or agreement upon which such action shall be brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, shall be in writing, and signed
by the judge charged therewith, or by some person by him
lawfully authorized.
DECREE REVERSED, and the defendants ordered to reconvey
to the complainant all the real and personal estate (Ashleys,

RAILROAD COMPANY

V.

SOUTTER.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

Spooner, and Hawes, to join in the conveyance of the real),
on repayment of the $2500, with interest, deducting $840,
with interest, received by the defendant, Horatio, for wood
standing on the land and sold. The cause remanded, with
directions to proceed accordingly.

GRIER and CLIFFORD, JJ., dissented.

MILWAUKIE AND MINNESoTA RAiLROAD COMPANY AND
FLEMING, APPELLANTS, V. SOUTTER, SURVIVOR.
An order of the Circuit Court, on a bill to foreclose a mortgage, ascertaining-in intended execution of a mandate from this court-the amount
of interest due on the mortgage, directing payment within one year,
and providing for an order of sale in default of payment, is a "decree"
and a "final decree," so far as that any person aggrieved by supposed
error in finding the amount of interest, or in the court's below having
omitted to carry out the entire mandate of this court, may appeal.
Appeal is a proper way in which to bring the matter before this court.

A DECREE had been made some time since in this court,
against the La Crosse and Milwaukie, and the Milwaukie
and Minnesota Railroad Companies, the road being then in
the hands of a receiver, on a bill in equity, filed in the Federal court of Wisconsin, to foreclose a mortgage given by the
former company on its road, &c., to two persons, named
Bronson and Soutter (of whom the former was now dead), to
secure certain bonds which the former road had issued, on
which the interest was unpaid.
The mandate to the court below, ran thus:
"It is ordered that this cause be remanded, &c., with directions to enter a decree for all the interest due, and secured by
the mortgage, with costs; that the courts ascertain the amount
of moneys in the hands of the receiver or receivers, from the earnings
of the road covered by the mortgage, which may be applicable to the
discharge of the inte-est, and apply it to the same; and that if the

