Dec. 1804.]

(UITTENDEN

c.

BREWSTER.

Statement of the case.

CHITTENDEN ET AL. V. BREWSTER ET AL.

I It is the duty of assignees, for the benefit of creditors, who have once

2

accepted the trust, not only to appear, but so far as the nature of the
transaction, and the facts and circumstances of the case will admit cr
warrant, to defend the suit. And if a Federal court is already seized
of the question of the validity of the trust, they should set up such
pending proceeding against any attempt by parties in a State court tc
bring a decision of the case within its cognizance. If, when the Federal
court has acquired previous jurisdiction, they submit with a mere appearance, and without any opposition to the jurisdiction of the State
court, and pass over to a receiver appointed by it the assets of the trust,
they will be held personally liable for them all in the Federal court.
A party not appealing from a decree cannot take advantage of an error
committed against himself; as for example, that the appellant had
omitted to prove certain formal facts averred in his bill, and which were
prerequisite of his case. But where-assuming the fact averred, but
not proved to be true-a decree given against a party in the face of such
want of proof is reversed in his favor, it may be reversed with liberty
given to the other side to require him to prove that same fact which the
appellee, when seeking here to maintain the decree, was not allowed to object that the appellant had failed, below, to prove.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The suit was a creditor's bill filed against a judgment
debtor and his assignees, the defendants in the case, to set
aside an assignment made by the debtor to hinder and delay
creditors. The assignment was made on the 4th of November, 1857, to Brewster and Clark, two of the defendants,
and purported to convey to them all the property, real and
personal, of the debtor, in trust, to convert the same into
money, either at public or private sale, and pay certain preferred creditors named. The judgment debtor made no
defence. The assignees put in ajoint answer, and after requiring the complainants to make proof of theirjudgments and executions as charged in their bill, set forth, among other grounds of
defence, that, after the filing of the bill below, a bill in
chancery had been filed against them in one of the State
"ourts, in behalf of other creditors of the judgriient.debtor.

UITTENDEN

'.

3RIEW%,TER.

[Sul). Ct

Statement of the case.

praying for the appointment of a receiver to take possession
and charge of the property conveyed by the assignment, and
that the trusts therein created be carried into effect, and
that, upon the filing of the bill in the State court, and after
hearing the motion for a receiver, the motion was granted;
and that they had afterwards, in pursuance of the order of
the State court, transferred and set over to the said receiver,
one Mitchell, all the property, real and personal, that had
come to their hands.
To this answer a replication was filed, and the parties went
to their proofs. There was no evidence that, on the applica.
tion in the State court for a receiver, which was made on the
alleged ground of faithless execution of the trust, the assignees had made opposition. They had done nothing but
acknowledge service on themselves of the notice of the intended motion for a receiver; employ a solicitor to enter an
appearance for them, and to give their assent to the hearing
of the motion at the February Term of the court, then at
hand. The State court accordingly granted the prayer of
the bill before it, and appointed a receiver, one Mitchell, in
the case. But no fraud was proved nor specifically alleged
on the part of the assignees in any part of the proceeding.
The bill below was taken, as confessed, by Brewster, the
debtor, and dismissed as to two other defendants; and the
court, after hearing the casq on the pleadings and proofs,
declared the assignment fraudulent, and set it aside, and appointed a receiver, one Moulton, and directed the judgment
debtor to assign and transfer in writing to him all his property, real and personal; and further, that Brewster and
Clark, the assignees, should assign and transfer in writing
to him all the property and effects of every description that
came into their hands by the assignment of the 4th of No-

vember, 1857, except such property and efects so assigned to
them, which have, since the service of process in this suit, been
transferred to lXitchell, the receiver, under the proceedings had in
the State court, and which was set forth in the answer filed by
them. From this decree the complainants appealed to this
court, the groind be'ng essentially that the proceeding in

Dec. 1864.]

CIIITTENDEN

V.

BREWSTER

Argument for the appellants.

the State court should have been treated as an interference
with the Federal jurisdiction previously acquired.
In order to understand this question of priority, it is necessary here to say that the bill in the Circuit Court was filed on
the 4th of January, 1858; the subpcena served on the defendants on the next day; and their appearance entered on
the 1st of February following. The bill in the State court
was filed on the 1st of February, 1858, and the subpcena
served on the 20th of the same month. The receiver was
appointed afterwards on notice. The evidence did not show
that the defendants conveyed the effects of the judgment
debtor in their hands to the receiver, but the fact was apparently assumed both by the counsel and the court below, and
no point upon it was made by the court here.
Mr. B. S. Smith for Chittende et al., appellants: The law is
settled, that courts of different but of co-ordinate jurisdiction,
cannot interfere with each other, either in process, person, or
property, to prevent the first jurisdiction, which attaches or
takes cognizance of the subject-matter in dispute, from deternining the case conclusively. Now the law of lis pendens
we assume to be equally settled. We assume that filing a
bill in a court of equity and service of process is notice to
the world of all the rights claimed by the complainant as set
up in his bill. It was thus decided so long ago as in decisions reported by Vernon,* and it has been confirmed by
many since.
Consider the action of the parties to the proceeding in the
State court. Soon after the service of process in this case,
the parties appear in the State court, on the first day of
February, 1858, and a bill is filed by somebody, charging
the assignees with neglect of duty. The assignees receive
service, submit to the charge, and in fact, though not in
rorm, confess a decree. They deliver without resistance to
Mitchell the property and effects, to be taken to himself,
under the assignment. When the assignees did this, they
1 Vernon, 318.
VOL 11.

12

C.IITTENDEN

v.

BnEWSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assignees.

knew the fact of the proceedings by the appellants in
the Federal court, to set aside the assignment, and subject
the property to the payment of other judgments. If property, situated as the estate in this case was, can, by a proceeding in another jurisdiction, after right and lien had
attached, be taken absolutely from the court, then proceed
ings by judgment creditors in the Federal court, after exhausting their remedy at law, are valueless. It will be
impossible for a man to suggest a case, where the debtor,
with the aid of a friendly creditor, could not concoct a proceeding to defeat every action by judgment creditors in
courts of equity. Before a receiver could be appointed and
take possession of the effects, such a proceeding, as the record in this case shows, could defeat the justice of the court.
Notice for an injunction can be postponed; time will elapse
before a receiver can be appointed. Assignees refuse or
neglect to deliver over, and before that is done, an order
comes from another jurisdiction, requiring the assignees to
deliver the effects to another, who is appointed ostensibly to
carry out the trusts. This order the assignees comply with,
and thereby arrest the proceedings, because the property
could not be reached; leaving the creditor powerless and
his debt lost. Such proceedings cannot be tolerated by
courts of justice. The rights of parties should not be subjected to schemes which might defeat the ends of justice,
nor should parties, who use a court of justice in such a
manner as these defendants stand under suspicion of having
used one of those of the State of Illinois, go unpunished.
.Mr. Washburne, contra, for the assignees: There is no evidence in the record showing that appellants acquired a prior
lien. It does not appear they ever sued out executions upon
their judgments or placed such executions in the hands of
the marshal, or had any return made thereon. The obtaining of a judgment, suing out of execution, and a return of
nulla bona are indispensable prerequisites to the establishment
of a prior equitable lien.*
* Jones v. Green, I Wallace, 330.

Dec. 1864.]

OHITTENDEN V. BREWSTER.
Opinion or the court.

If the appellants acquired a prior equitable lien by the
filing of their bill of complaint, they lost the same by the
superior diligence of the complainants in the State court,
The lien obtained by the filing of a creditor's bill is an inchoate one, which may be perfected by the appointment of
a receiver, and may be displaced by the superior diligence
of other creditors in perfecting similar liens. It is urged
that the court below should have treated the proceedings of
the State court as fraudulent and void; but it will be noticed that there was neither allegation nor proof of fraud in
the case.
If the appellants had a superior lien upon the property in
the hands of the receiver appointed by the State court, the
proper mode of enforcing that lien was for the receiver of
the court below to intervene in the State court by petition,
pro interesse suo, where the lien, when established, would
have been recognized and duly enforced. Upon establishing
the right of the receiver of the court below to the property
in the hands of the receiver of the State court, in the mode
indicated, the State court would have ordered its officer to
deliver the property over to the officer of the United States
court. The court below declared the assignment void, appointed a receiver, and compelled the defendant, Brewster,
to assign all his interest in the property. This was all the
court could do; it could not order the assignees to deliver
over property not in their hands, and which they had already delivered to the officer of the State court under its
order.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It does not appear from the proofs in the case, that executions had been issued, and returned unsatisfied, as averred in
the bill, and for the proof of which the answer of defendants
called; and it is objected, by the counsel for the appellees
that this defect is fatal to the right of the complainants to
maintain their bill. This would be so, if the appellees,
against whom the decree was rendered, had appealed from

CHITTENDEN V. BREWSTER.

[6up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the same, as in the case of Jones v. Green.* See also, Day
et al. v. Washburn et al.t But here the complainants only
have appealed, and the rule is settled in the appellate court,
that a party not appealing cannot take advantage of an error
in the decree committed against himself, and also, that the
party appealing cannot allege error in the decree against
the party not appealing.1 If the appellees desired to avail
themselves of this error in the decree, they should have
brought a cross appeal. By omitting to do so, they admit
the correctness of the decree as to them. The case stands
before the appellate tribunal the same as if the error had
been waived at the hearing.
This brings the case down to the question as to the effect
to be given to the suit in the State court; and to the order
of that court appointing a receiver, and directing the defendants to assign and set over to him all the effects of the
judgment debtor in their hands, under his assignment of
the 4th of November, 1857.
The bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, to set
aside the assignment to these defendants as fraudulent
against creditors, was first filed, and consequently operated
as the first lien upon the effects of Brewster, the judgment
debtor.
We agree that the defendants, as bailees and trustees of
the property intrusted to their care and management for the
benefit of the creditors of Brewster, were responsible only
for common or ordinary diligence, such as prudent men
exercise in respect to their own private affairs. But this
degree of diligence the law exacts, and the courts of justice
are bound to enforce. When, therefore, the bill was filed
against them by the judgment creditors in the Circuit Court
of the United States, to set aside the assignment as fraudulent, it was their duty, arising out of their acceptance of the
trust, to appear and defend the suit, as they have done, and
t 24 Howard, 365, 356.
1 Wallace, 830.
v. Weston, 2 Comstock, 505; Norbury v. Mleade, 3 Bligb, 261;

T Kelsey

Rlapes v. Coffin, 5 Paige, 296; Idley v. Bowen, i1 Wendell, 227

Dec.. 1864.]

CHITTENDEN

v.

BREWSTER.

Opinion of the court.

protect their title to the fund in controversy, so far as the
nature of the transaction and the facts and circumstances of
the case would admit or warrant. Their whole duty appears
to have been discharged in this respect, and we perceive no
ground of complaint against them. But, this duty was
equally incumbent upon them in respect to the suit in the
State court. They should have appeared and defended that
suit; and, in addition to the defence on the merits, that is
of their faithful execution of the trust, which was impeached
by the bill, they should have set up the pending proceedings
against them in the Federal court, which tribunal had first
acquired jurisdiction over them, and over the fund in dispute, and were entitled to deal with it, and with all questions
growing out of the relations existing of debtor and creditor
of the parties concerned. Instead, however, of pursuing
this-course, no defence, as appears, was set up by the defendants to the suit; no answer filed, nor even opposition
made to the motion for the appointment of a receiver. The
only part they seem to have taken in the proceedings is,
besides acknowledging service of the notice of the motion
for a receiver, the solicitors entered their appearance in the
cause, and gave consent that the motion might be made at
the then February Term of the court. It was at once made,
and the receiver appointed and gave the requisite security.
Now, we think, here was a clear omission of duty on the
part of the defendants, as trustees and bailees of the property in question, and for which they should have been held
personally responsible. They should have appeared and
defended the suit in the State court, and set up the pending
proceedings in the Federal court, which was a complete
answer to the jurisdiction of the former; and if this defence
had been overruled, a remedy existed by a writ of error to
this court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The court below, therefore, erred in excepting from the
transfer of the effects of the judgment creditors in the hands
of the defendants to Moulton, the receiver, the property and
effects transferred to Mitchell, under the order of the State
vourt. For this error, the decree of the court below must

198

CAMPBELL V. READ.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below,
with directions to proceed on the same in conformity with
this opinion; but liberty is given to the defendants to require
proof before the court of the issuing of executions and return
unsatisfied, as averred in the bill of complaint.*
DECREE, ETC., ACCORDINGLY.

CAMPBELL V. READ.
A. question involving the construction of a statute regulating intestacies
within the District of Columbia, is not a question of law of "such extensive interest and operation," as that if the matter involved is not of
the value of $1000 or upwards, this court will assume jurisdiction
under the act of Congress of April 2d, 1816.

THE act of Congress of April 2d, 1816,t regulating appeals and writs of error from the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia to this court, limits them to cases in which
the matter in dispute is of the value of $1000 or upwards.
It provides, however, that if "any questions of law of such
extensive interest and operation as to render the final decision
of them by the Supreme Court desirable" are involved in
the alleged errors of the Circuit Court, the case may be
heard here, even though the matter in dispute is of less
value than $1000; and any judge of the court, if he is of
opinion that the questions are of such a character, may allow
the writ or appeal accordingly.
With this statute in force, Campbell, by will, left legacies
to his widow and several illegitimate children; but, after
paying them all, a fund of $141 remained in the hands of
the executor undisposed of; there being no residuary legatee
named in the will, and no parents, &c., legitimate children,
* Levy v. Arredondo, 12 Peters, 218; Marine Insurance Company v.
Flodgson, 6 Cranch, 206; Ifandeville -v. Burt, 8 Peters, 256-7.
f 8 Stat. at Large, 261.

