Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)
Statement of the case.

hands," and it is fully shown that he signed receipts foi
cargo. While in the act of employing the seaman, when
clearly he was acting as master of the vessel, he stated that
he was going to the coast of Africa, and that he was to be
master of the vessel. He also "said he was going blackbirding," and endeavored to persuade the witness to enlist
and go with him, by promises of large profits. Among other
things, he also stated that they would be gone about four
months, and that the witness, if he would go, would have
three or four thousand dollars when he got back; and on
another occasion, he stated that the bark was going on a
trading voyage to the African coast, and would probably
bring back some negroes. Viewed in connection with the
circumstantial evidence, these statements are regarded as
affording full proof of the truth of the allegations contained
in the libel of information. Such were the views of the
District and Circuit Courts, and we have no doubt they are
correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AriFnRmED.

THE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)
The general principle declared in Th Kate and of The Sarah (supra,pp. 866,

872) acted on in a case of the same general type, but where the facts
were more close.
Where the size, build, equipment, and cargo of a vessel-the non-appearance and doubtful existence of her asserted owners-the non-production
by the claimant of important witnesses, and other circumstances, lead
to a presumption that her purpose is to engage in the slave-trade, and
no attempt is made to repel that presumption by explaining the suspicious circumstances, the vessel may be condemned as a slaver. The
fact that she is cleared for China, does not of itself repel the presumption, the clearance being vid Ambriz, a Portuguese port on the west
coast of Africa, and that port being within about one hundred miles of
the Slave-coast.

THIs, like the two preceding cases, was a libel filed in the

District Court for the Southern District of New York, against

TnE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)

[Sup. OU

Statement of the case.

a vessel in the port of that city, under acts of Congress,*.
prohibiting the equipment, loading, and dther preparation
of the vessel, for the purpose of carrying on a trade in slaves,
and like fitting, &c., and causing the vessel to sail for th6
purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes, and persons of color,
to be held, sold, or otherwise disposed of as slaves, &c. The
libel was served October 23, 1860. On the 30th, John Morris, "intervening for the interest of himself as owner of the
vessel and carrier of the cargo, appears before the honorable
court, and makes claim to the said vessel, &c.," and averred
himself to be true and bond fide owner, &c. The District
Court condemned the vessel. On appeal, the Circuit Court
affirmed the decree. Appeal here. The facts were thus:
On the 5th of September, 1860, one J. T. Woodbury purported to sell the vessel to "John Morris, of New York,"
"for the sum of $12,000."
The vessel was a bark of about 365 tons, 114 feet 8 inches
long, 26 feet 6 inches wide, 13 feet 3 inches deep, with two
decks and three masts.
The outward foreign manifest, sworn to by Edward Mitchell, who purported to be captain, on the 12th of Selitember, 1860, represented her as bound for Hong Kong, via
Ambriz, with a crew of fourteen men, and a cargo valued at
nearly $19,000. The captain swore that this manifest contained "a full, just, and true account of all the goods, and
then actually laden on board said vessel;" that he will report any additional cargo, and also, that "said cargo is truly
intended to be landed in the port of Hong Kong, vid Ambriz."
The shipper's manifest purported to report part of cargo
shipped by Anthony Tuero, embracing the same goods, &c.,
contained in the manifest sworn to by the captain, and the
oath, taken on the 12th of September, 1860, was, that "the
said merchandise is truly intended to be exported to Ambriz." Tuero himself, whose deposition was taken in the
District Court, though he was not examined in the Circuit,
* Acts of 22d of March, 1794, and 20th of April, 1818.

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)

377

Statement of the case.

stated the same thing, namely, that the cargo was to be discharged at Ambriz, and that he was not to have anything
to do with the vessel afterwards.
The bark had a between-deck, made of rough boards,
about 5 feet below the main deck; two surf-boats, besides
four other small boats, which were manifested, With oars,
rudders, tillers, &c. The surf-boats were covered and had
hatches. A lot of lumber was stowed between decks, manifested as 100 pieces, 4 by 6 timber, and 762 pieces pine
boards; 17 coils of rope, 8 bolts of sail-duck, 8 anchors,
coopers' tools, nails, and a variety of things, usual in fitting
a slaver, but not unusual in fitting any vessel. She had 12
swivels, and quantities of muskets and powder.
The cargo included 80 barrels of bread, 85 barrels and 100
half-barrels of rice, 57 barrels mess-beef and pork, 10 barrels
of flour, beans, meal, &c., 3 barrels of vinegar, sixty fathoms
of chain, 40 kegs of paint, 10 cans of linseed oil, 4 cans of
spirits of turpentine, 96 bundles of white oak shucks, 4
hogsheads of shucks for heads of casks, 2 boxes of coopers'
tools, 114 casks filled with water, 10 furnaces and boilers,
and a large lot of firewood, and 375 sheets of copper. Other
portions of the cargo were blankets, coarse cotton goods,
muskets, powder, rum, wine, &c. All this cargo was perfectly suited to the slave-trade.
As respected Morris, it appeared that no man of that
name was, on the 6th September, when the bill of sale was
made, known to be in the shipping business of New York.
No person, indeed, of the name was known by clearing
clerks, some of whom were examined, or others, at the custoni-house at all. Nor had he been ever heard of by one
Machado, a man extensively engaged in the African trade.
Thp vessel was app.raised by the custom-house appraisers
at.$9000; the cargo at $11,681. The partner of Woodbury,
.- the alleged vendor of the vessel, and confessedly a real
person, one Schmidt, a ship-broker,-did not know Morris,
or what his business was, or whether he lived in New York,
or whether he was "an owner or go-between." He had
only seen lim once, in the street, two months before.

THE

SLAVERS.

(WEATHER aAGE.)

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Woodbury was at the hearing in the District Court in town,
but was not called by the claimant, nor was the witness
to the execution of the bill of sale examined or produced.
When appeal was taken to the Circuit Court in Morris's
name, on the 7th of February, 1861, the petition was signed
by his counsel, and the bond then given for appeal. It was
executed by one Fogerty, surety for Morris, but not by
Morris himself. Fogerty swore that he had never heard of
such a person as Morris till that morning, and that he had
signed the bond because the counsel requested him.
Ambriz is a Portuguese town on the west coast. It was
testified that there is no regular trade to Hong Kong vid
that port; and that vessels never clear from New York for
China vid any such place, though they do sometimes from
South America. It was testified, also, that the ordinary size
of vessels in the trade, on the west coast of Africa, is from
200 to 400 tons; that of those trading to China, averaging
from 800 to 1200.
On the other hand, it seemed, if the testimony of Schmidt
was to be received as true, that the $12,000 purchase-money
of the vessel was actually paid by Morris to his partner
Woodbury. No manacles, nor any unusual supply of medicines, were found on the vessel, which was unladed carefully.
Her size and equipments, though fitting her for a slaver,
were not unfit for a lawful voyage to the region where she
purported to be going. All articles found on the vessel were
entered on the manifest. Both vessel and cargo were consigned to one Lievas, superintendent of the English mines
at Ambriz. who it was not suggested had been concerned
at any time in the slave-trade. Ambriz itself was a town
of about 3000 inhabitants, having a certain amount of commerce, but not any considerable amount; the same trade as
the Congo River,-palm oil, ivory, hides, pepper and gum
being shipped from the district. It is about 100 miles from
any point where slaves are got. It has a custom-house, and
exacts duties. It appeared that one house in Salem, Mas.
sachusetts, testified to be "respectable," traded there; that
barks of about the same size with the Weathergage, and

Dec. 1864.]

'THE SLAVERS.

(WEATHERGAGE.)

37v

Opinion of the court.

of a structure not essentially different, made voyages to the
place; that temporary decks were sometimes highly convenient, and were used accordingly in lawfulvoyages t
Africa; and surf-boats, also; these last being useful in load
ing and unloading. Large quantities of water, too, is sent
out in casks; "the water being pumped out, and oil, from
the region, being poured in, just as the casks stand." -The
cargo, generally, would be "as likely to go for legal as illegal purposes." The witness, however, wha testified to this,
and that $20,000 would not be an excessive value for a cargo
bound to Ambriz, had never known "just such a cargo" sent
there as the one on the Weathergage, nor Jmown of any
vessel sent to Hong Kong vid Ambriz, while neither knew
he of any slave-trade vid China. He had been established
for ten years trading to the western coast of Africa and Gulf
of Guinea, and had sent from seventy-eight to one hundred
vessels there.
Mr. Beebee, for the appellant; Mr. Assistant Attorney- General
Ashton, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORI) delivered the opinion of the. court.
This was a libel of information in a cause of seizure and
forfeiture, and the case is brought here by an appeal from
the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York. Substance of the charge,
as contained in the libel of information, is that the bark
Weathergage was fitted, equipped, loaded, and otherwise
prepared in the port.of New York for the purpose of carry
ing on a trade or traffic in slaves to some foreign country;
or for the purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes, or per.
sons of color, from some foreign country, to be transported
to some other port or place, to be held, sold, or 'otherwise
disposed of as slaves, or to be held to service or labor.*
Process was served on the 23d day of October, 1860, and
on the 30th of the same month, John Morris, intervening
* 1 Stat. at Large, 347; 3 Id. 451.

THE SLAVERS. (WEATnERGAGE.)

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for the interest of himself as owner of the vessel, and as the
carrier of the cargo, appeared before the court and made
claim to the same, and was allowed to make defence. Testimony was taken, and a decree, condemning both vessel
and cargo, was entered in the District Court. Claimant
appealed to the Circuit Court, and the record shows that
additional testimony was taken in that court, and that the
decree of the District Court was subsequently in all things
affirmed. Appeal was then taken by the claimant to this
court, and the parties have here been again fully heard.
1. Condemnation and forfeiture were decreed both in the
District and Circuit Courts, upon the ground that the evidence shows that the vessel was fitted, equipped, and loaded,
or caused to sail, for the purpose of engaging in the slavetrade. Claimant denies that the finding was warranted by
the evidence, and that is the principal question in the case.
Undoubtedly, it is the preparation of the vessel, and the
purpose for which she is to be employed, that constitute the
offence, and draw after it the penalty of forfeiture. As
soon, therefore, as the preparations have progressed so far,
as clearly and satisfactorily to show the purpose for which
they are made, the right of seizure, attaches.*
Contrary to the views of the claimant, the counsel for the
United States insist that the character of the preparations
for the projected voyage was such as to indicate clearly that
the purpose was the same as that charged in the libel of
information. They admit that the circumstances given in
evidence show that the projectors of the voyage had skilfully determined to give it the appearance of an honest and
lawful enterprise; but they insist that a careful scrutiny of
the evidence will show that the guilty purpose is not so successfully covered up with the garb of innocence as to conceal
the true features of the transaction.
2. Looking at the evidence, it is apparent that it is, in its
general characteristics, substantially the same as that exhi* The Emily and Caroline, 9 Wheaton, 381; The Plattsburg, 10 Id. 188;
United States v. Gooding, 12 Id. 460.

Dec. 1864.]

TnE

SLAVERS. (WEATHERGAGE.)

881

Opinion of the court.

bited in the other slave-trade cases decided at the present
term. Differences are seen in the details of the evidence,
but the quality and general nature of the proofs are substantially similar. Title of the bark, on the 5th day of Sep.
tember, 1860, appears to have been in one J. T. Woodbury,
and the record shows that he on that day made a bill of sale
of the same to one John Morris, of New York, for the sum
of twelve thousand dollars. Counsel of the claimant introduced the bill of sale of the vessel, but they did not examine
the person who witnessed its execution.
8. Proofs show that the Weathergage is a bark with two
decks and three masts, and that she is of the burden of three
hundred and fifty-five tons. Her outward foreign manifest,
sworn to by the master, Edward Mitchell, on the 12th of
September, 1860, represents her as bound to Hong Kong via
Ambriz, with a crew of fourteen men, and a cargo valued at
nearly nineteen thousand dollars. Statements of the manifest are, that it contains "a full, just, and true amount of all
the goods then actually laden on board the vessel," and that
the "cargo is truly intended to be landed in the port of Hong
Kong via Ambriz;" but the shipper's manifest states that the
merchandise is truly intended to be exported to Ambriz,
which is a place on the coast of Africa.
4. Suspicion attaches strongly to the equipment of the
vessel. She had a temporary between-deck, made of rough
boards, about five and a half feet below the main deck, and
which was not necessary to carry the cargo laden on board;
and she had a large quantity of lumber stowed between
decks, and manifested as lumber, and eight thousand three
hundred and eighty-two feet of pine boards. She had two
surf-boats, besides four other small boats, together with rudders and tillers and "oars for the same." In addition to the
articles mentioned, she also had seventeen coils of rope,
three bolts of sail duck, eight anchors, coopers' tools, nails,
and almost every variety of article which is essential in .the
fitment of a slaver. Mention should also be made, that she
had as part of her fitment, though included as cargo, twelve
swivels and a large quantity of muskets and powder.

TnE SLAVERS. (WEATIERGAGE.)

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

5. Portions of the cargo proper should also be noticed, as
affording strong grounds of presumption that the purpose
of the voyage was such as is charged in the information.
Among other articles, it contains eighty barrels of bread,
eighty-five barrels and one hundred half barrels of rice,
fifty-seven barrels of beef and pork, besides four barrels of
flour, and six barrels of beans and meal, and three barrels
of vinegar. Besides the articles mentioned, the manifest
also shows that she had one hundred and fourteen casks
filled with water, and shooks and headings to make ninetysix more, together with forty bundles of iron for hoops, such
as is used on such casks. She had also ten furnaces and
boilers, with a large quantity of fire-wood, and three hundred and seventy-five sheets of copper. Argument for the
claimants is, that the cargo was as suitable for a lawful voyage to the supposed port of destination, as for the purpose
charged in the libel of information; but it is not possible to
accede to that proposition. On the contrary, it seems to us,
in view of the evidence in the case, that the manifest is a
"more complete one, in every respect, for engaging in the
slave trade," than any one heretofore presented to the court.
6. Although the master testified that the cargo was intended to be landed at Hong Kong, the great weight of the
evidence shows that it was destined for Ambriz, or some
other port on the coast of Africa. The shipper was not
called as a witness in the District Court, but he was examined in the Circuit Court. He testified that he owned and
shipped the cargo, and that it was to be discharged at Ambriz, ami that he was not to have anything to do with the
vessel, after the cargo was discharged. Libellants prove
that there is no trade from New York to Hong Kong, or
any other port in China, by the way of Ambriz, or any other
port on that coast, and that no vessel ever cleared from the
port of New York for such a voyage.
7.. None of the witnesses, on the one side or the other,
know the alleged owner and claimant of the vessel. Satisfactory proofs were introduced, showing that there was not
then and has not been since, to the time of the hearing, any

Dec. 1864.]

THE SLAVERS. (REINDEER.)
Statement of the case.

person by that name engaged in the shipping business-in
the port of New York. Two or more clearance clerks were
examined, and they testify that they never heard of a business man there of that name. Persons who have for years
been engaged in the China and African trades were also
examined, and they testify to the same effect. Even Schmidt,
the ship-broker and partner of the person who sold the vessel for twelve thousand dollars, testifies that he never saw
him but once, and that was in the street, and that he. did
not know whether he was the actual owner, or merely the
agent of the real purchaser of the vessel. Woodbury, the
grantor of the vessel, was not called by the claimant. When
the appeal was taken in the Circuit Court, the petition was
signed by his counsel, and the bond given on the appeal,
although drawn for the signature and seal of the claimant,
was executed only by a surety, and the surety testifies that
he never heard of such person until the morning of the day
when his examination as a witness took place. Neither the
master nor any of the crew are called to explain any of these
inculpatory circumstances, nor is there any attempt to afford
any explanation upon the subject. For these reasons, we are
of the opinion that the finding in the court below was clearly
correct. The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

Tnm SLAVERS. (RmaqDm.)
I. A vessel begun to be fitted, equipped, &c., for the purpose of a slavevoyage, in a port of the United States, then going to a foreign port, in
order evasively to complete the fitting, equipping, &c., and so completing it, and from such port continuing the voyage, is liable to seizure
and condemnation when driven in its subsequent course into a port of
the United States.
2. In libels for the alleged pur ose of violating the acts of Congress prohibiting the trade in slaves, a wide range of evidence is allowed. Positive
proofs can seldom be had; and a condemnation may be made on testimony that is circumstantial only, if the circumstances be sufficiently
numerous and strong, and especially if corrDborated by moral coincidences.

