198

CAMPBELL V. READ.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below,
with directions to proceed on the same in conformity with
this opinion; but liberty is given to the defendants to require
proof before the court of the issuing of executions and return
unsatisfied, as averred in the bill of complaint.*
DECREE, ETC., ACCORDINGLY.

CAMPBELL V. READ.
A. question involving the construction of a statute regulating intestacies
within the District of Columbia, is not a question of law of "such extensive interest and operation," as that if the matter involved is not of
the value of $1000 or upwards, this court will assume jurisdiction
under the act of Congress of April 2d, 1816.

THE act of Congress of April 2d, 1816,t regulating appeals and writs of error from the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia to this court, limits them to cases in which
the matter in dispute is of the value of $1000 or upwards.
It provides, however, that if "any questions of law of such
extensive interest and operation as to render the final decision
of them by the Supreme Court desirable" are involved in
the alleged errors of the Circuit Court, the case may be
heard here, even though the matter in dispute is of less
value than $1000; and any judge of the court, if he is of
opinion that the questions are of such a character, may allow
the writ or appeal accordingly.
With this statute in force, Campbell, by will, left legacies
to his widow and several illegitimate children; but, after
paying them all, a fund of $141 remained in the hands of
the executor undisposed of; there being no residuary legatee
named in the will, and no parents, &c., legitimate children,
* Levy v. Arredondo, 12 Peters, 218; Marine Insurance Company v.
Flodgson, 6 Cranch, 206; Ifandeville -v. Burt, 8 Peters, 256-7.
f 8 Stat. at Large, 261.

Ibec. 1864.]

CAMPBELL V.

READ.

Opinion of the court.

or collateral relations, who had the right to claim it as next
of kin in preference to the widow.
The widow accordingly claimed it under statute. Her
claim was opposed by the executor in virtue of an act regulating such matters in the District, and which declares that
"every bequest of personal estate to the wife of a testator
shall be construed to be intended in bar of her share of the per
sonal estate, unless it be otherwise expressed in the will."*
Her right depended, therefore, upon a construction of this
statute, and the point before this court was, whether this
question was a question of law of such extensive interest
and operation as to render the final decision of it, in a case
like the present one, by this court, desirable. Under the impression that it might be, or under some misunderstanding,
an allocaturhad been allowed in vacation by one of the justices of this court. The printed copy of the record showed
no certificate that the papers it contained were a transcript
of the record, though counsel put nothing on that ground,
which was supposed to be an accident only.
Mr. Bames, for the appellant, argued that the question was
of such a character as the act of Congress contemplated. It
concerned the whole subject of testaments and intestacies in
a large and important territory, constantly increasing in
population and wealth, the seat of the Federal Government
itself. The amount here, indeed, was not large, but the
principle, and therefore the "question of law," was the same
as if the amount was millions.
Mr. Stone, contra.
At a subsequent day, the CHIEF JUSTICE announced
briefly the court's opinion, that independently of the record's not showing a proper certificate,-this itself being a
sufficient ground for dismissal,-the amount in controversy
was insignificant, and thatithe court was satisfied, on an inspection of the papers, that the allocaturwas inadvertently
* Act of Maryland, 1798; Dorsey's Laws, 406.

BANK TAX CASE.

Lsup. Ct

Statement of the case.

sanctioned. There was, he said, no principle involved of
such extensive application as to bring the case within the
act of Congress giving jurisdiction on a judge's allocatur
when the amount in controversy is less than $1000. Notwithstanding the allocatur,therefore, the case was
DISMISSED.

BANK TAX CASE.
A tax laid by a State on banks, "on a valuation equal to the amount of their
capital stock paid in, or secured to be paid in,"is a tax on theproperty
of the institution; and when that property consists of stocks of the Federal Government, the law laying the tax is void.

A STATUTE of the State of New York, passed in 1857,
making some modifications of previous acts of 1823, 1825,
and 1830, enacted that the capital stock of the banks of the State
should be "assessed at its actual value, and taxed in the same
manner as other personal and real estate of the country."
After the passage of this act, several of the banks became
owners of large amounts of the bonds of the United States,
in regard to which Congress enacts* that "whether held by
individuals or corporations,they shall be exempt from taxation by or under State authority." On a question between
several banks of New York, formed under the general banking law of 1838 in that State, and the tax commissioners
of New York, this court decided, in March, 1863 (Bank of
Commerce v. NVew York City, reported in 2 Black, 620), tha
the tax referred to was a tax upon the stock; and that being
so, it was by the settled law of this court illegally imposed.
In April, 1863, just after this decision, the legislature of
New York passed another statute,t which enacted that "all
banks, banking associations, &c., shall be liable to taxation
on a valuation equal to the amount of their capitalstock paid in or
secured to be paid in, and their surplus earnings, &c., in the
manrer now provided by law,'&c. On a tax laid, under
* Act of February 25, 1862.

t" A.et of 29th Ap~ril, 1863.

