Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V. SiHERRY.
Syllabus.

consent of the sureties; and this court held, that tihe bond
was thereby rendered invalid against the sureties. Principle
of these decisions is, that the alteration varies the terms of
the obligation, and that the contract thereby ceases to be
the contract for the due performance of which the party
became surety, and wherever that appears to be the fact,
and the surety is without fault, he is discharged.
Correct rule, we think, is stated by Lord Brougham in
Bonar v. facdonald,* and which is substantially the same as
that adopted by Mr. Burge in his treatise on surety. Sub
stance of the rule is, that any variation in the agreement to
which the surety has subscribed, which is made without the
surety's knowledge or consent, and which may prejudice
him, or which may amount to a substitution of a new agreement for the one he subscribed, will discharge the surety,
upon the principle of the maxim non hcec infedera veni. Intentional error cannot be imputed to the district judge, but
the undisputed facts show that the erasure was made after
the defendant signed the instrument, and before its approval,
and without the knowledge or consent of the defendant.
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the first
prayer for instruction, presented by the defendant, should
have been given.
JUDGMENT

of the Circuit Court, therefore, is

REVERSED,

and the cause remanded, with direction to issue a new venire.

MILLER V. SHERRY.
3. A creditor's bill, to be a is pendens, and to operate as a notice against
real estate, must be so definite in the description of the estate, as that
any one reading it can learn thereby what property is the subject of
the litigation. If it is not so, it will be postponed to a junior bill.
which is.
2. A party entitled to a homestead reservation under the laws of Illinois,* 1 English Law & Equity, 1.

MILLER V. SHERRY.

[Sul). Ot

Statement of the case.
whose property, in which it is, a court of chancery has ordered in
general terms to be sold, to satisfy a creditor whom he had attempted
to defraud by a secret conveyance of it,-must set up his right, if at all,
before the property is thus sold. He cannot set it up collaterally after
the sale, and so defeat an ejectment brought by a purchaser to put him
out of possession.
S. 'When chancery has full jurisdiction as to both persons and property,
and decrees that a master of the court sell and convey real estate, the
subject of a bill before it, a sale and conveyance in conformity to such
decree, is as effectual to convey the title as the deed of a sheriff, made
pursuant to execution on a judgment at law. The defendant whose
property is sold need not join in the deed.

SHERRY had obtained a judgment in ejectment for some

lots and a house on them, in Illinois, against Miller, in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of that State, and
this was a writ of error to reverse it.
It appeared, on the trial below, that W. & W. Lyon had
obtained a judgment against Miller in October, 1858, and
sued out a ft. fa.; on which nulla bona was returned. In
February, 1859, they filed a creditor's bill against the same
Miller, his wife, and one Williams (son-in-law of Miller),
charging that Miller had, on the 6th of April, 1857, conveyed the premises now in controversy-describing them,
and describing them, moreover, as lots, which at the time of
the conveyance, and at the time of the bill filed, Miller occupied, and, with hisfamily, resided on-to this Williams, to defraud creditors; and praying that the deed should be set
aside, the premises sold, and his debt paid out of the proceeds. Miller and Williams answered the bill. In June,
1860, the cause was heard, the deed set aside as fraudulent,
and the master in chancery for the court ordered to sell the
premises, and to execute to the purchaser good and sufficient
deeds of conveyance, and that the sale so made shall bar and
divest all, and all manner of interest or right, which the said
Miller or any of the defendants might have in the property,
or in any part of it. The master accordingly did sell, for
$1867, and by deed convey, in September, 1860, the premises
to one Bushnell, who conveyed to Sherry, plaintiff below
It further appeared that a firm named Mills & Bliss had

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER

r.

SHE1RRY.

Statement of the case.

also obtained a judgment against Miller in the same court,
in October, 1857,-that is to say, a year before the judgment
of W. & W. Lyon, - and that on a ft. fa. issued upon it,
nulla bona was also returned. In April, 1858, Mills & Bliss
filed a creditor's bill against Miller and a certain Richardson;
Williams, the son-in-law of Miller, and person to whom, by
deed of 6th of April, 1857, he had conveyed the house and
lots in controversy, not being made a party. This billwhich, it will be noted, was filed several months before the
bill of W. &W. Lyon,-charged a variety of frauds in general
terms, against Miller, and particularly, that he had "made
a sale of his stock of goods and merchandise, notes and accounts, at Ottawa aforesaid, and of great value, to this defendant, Richardson." It also charged that Miller was, at
the time when the judgment was obtained, "and now is,
the owner, or in some way or manner beneficially interested
in some real estate in this, or some other State or Territory, or
some chattels real of some name or kind, or some contract
or agreement relating to some real estate, or the rents,
issues, and profits of some real estate." But the bill, unlike
that of W. & W. Lyon, contained no reference to the specific property, the subject of the ejectment. And there was
no reference to real estate in the charging part of the bill, other
than the general one of "some real estate," &c., as above
given. There was a special prayer that the sale to Richardson should be declared void, and that the property or its
avails should be applied to the payment of the judgment of
Mills & Bliss.
The matter being referred to a master, Miller was ex'
amined before him. 7e, Miller, then disclosed the fact of the
conveyance of the house and lots to Williams, his son-in-law,
by the deed of April, 1857. In March, 1860, the master
filed his report containing the evidence just stated. Upon
this, Mills & Bliss (December, 1860), filed an amendment to
their original bill, making Williams a party; process being
issued against him, but the process not being served. This
amendment charged that the deed of Miller to Williams, of
A-pril, 1857, was fraudulent and void. Williams did not

MILLER V. SHERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

answer, and the bill as to him was dismissed. A receiver
was appointed July 13th, 1861, and 31iller was ordered to
convey to him, which he did on the 26th of that same month.
The deed embraced, by description, the premises in controversy, but they were conveyed, subject to the rights which
Miller might have in them "under the homestead law of Illinois."
Pursuant to an order of court, the receiver, on the 23d of
August, 1861, sold and conveyed the property for $500 to
one Benedict; the deed, like Miller's own to the receiver,
being subject to the reservation of the "homestead right."
In reference to this reservation, it is necessary here to
state, that a statute of Illinois enacts that "the lot of
ground and the buildings thereon, occupied as a residence,
and owned by a debtor being a householder, and having a
family," to the value of one thousand dollars, "shall be exempt from levy and forced sale, under any process or order
from any court of law or equity in this State ;" and it further
declares, that "no release or waiver of such exemption shall
be valid, unless the same shall be in writing, subscribed by
such householder, and his wife, if he have one, and acknowledged in the same manner as conveyances of real estate are
by law required to be acknowledged, it being the object of
this act to require, in all cases, the signature and acknowledgment of the wife as conditions to the alienation of the
homestead."
At the time of the ejectment below, Miller was living
with his wife and children in a house on the premises sold;
which were worth about $2700.
Upon these facts, the counsel of the plaintiff below asked
the court to charge the jury:
1. That Mills & Bliss, by filing their bill against Miller,
and service of process, obtained a lien upon all the property
and effects of Miller; which lien had, by the decree and sale
of the receiver, passed into a title in Benedict, which title
related back to the service of process, and had become paramount to the title of the plaintiff.
2. That the defendant was entitled to a homestead right
under the laws of the State of Illinois, in such cases mad,

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

and provided, which be could set up as a defence in this
case.
The court gave neither instruction, but gave instructions
in substance the reverse of them. Its action herein was the
question before this court.
Mr. B. S. Smith, for the plaintiff in error:
1. A plaintiff in ejectment recovers,, of course, on the
strength of his own title, and that title, in the Federal court,
must be a legal one. Now was the legal title in Sherry, assignee of Bushnell, under the proceeding of the Lyons ?
The sale by the master, under the bill of the Lyons, did
not convey the legal title to Bushnell. Miller did not join
in that deed. He was not even ordered or asked to. It is a
deed by the master. Now, a bourt of equity can only compel
the party to convey the legal title, and upon a sale thereby
give it to the purchaser. The power of such a court to set
aside a legal title for fraud, does not confer power to decree
the legal title in another by operation of the decree. The
title must be conveyed, and if the party refuse, the court
can order that a commissioner convey the legal title for the
obstinate party, so that the title will be perfected on the sale
by the receiver or master. In the great case of Penn v. Lord
Baltimore,* it is said, that courts of equity act upon the parties by decrees, and not upon the property, except through
the party; that is, in all suits in equity the primary decree
is in personam, and not in rem. In our own country we have
often declared the same thing. In a Mississippi case,t the
court says: "The chancery court cannot, by its decree, divest
the legal title to land out of one party and vest it in another.
It is necessary, in such cases, to appoint a commissioner to
convey." So in Kentucky,$ the court held that "the chancellor may decide on the equitable right to have a transfer
of the legal right of entry, and may enforce a compliance
with the decree by compelling a conveyance; but until the
* I Vesey. 444.

t"Willis v. Wilson, 84 Miss. 857.
Mummy v. Johnson, 8 Kentucky, 220,
voT,. 11.

16

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

conveyance is actually made, the right of entry remains as it
was before the decree."* So in North Carolina, the court
says, that a decree in equity cannot, of itself, divest a title at
law to land, but can only compel the person who has the
title and who is mentioned in the decree, to convey. So in
Ohio,t it was held that a decree does not, of itself, pass a
title, but that a deed has to be actually made conveying the
title, so that a sale, by order of the court, would convey the
legal title. The same principle is enunciated in a New York
case,J where Gardner, J., says: "In all cases of frauduleiit
trusts, the court may, in its discretion, direct a sale by a
master, and compel the debtor and trustee to unite in the conveyance to the purchaser, or it may order an assignment to a receiver, as was done in this case, to the end that the property
may be disposed of under the special instructions of the
chancellor; or the fraudulent conveyance may be annulled, and
the creditor permitted to proceed to a sale upon his execution." We need not cite additional authorities. Independently of merits, therefore, there is an outstanding legal
title, which technically barred the right to sue in ejectment
below.
But, on merits, the plaintiff in the ejectment had no
case. Benedict was actual owner. The bill of Mills &
Bliss, under which he claims, was filed in April, 1858; that
of the Lyons some months afterwards, to wit, in the month
of February, 1859. Both bills were what are called freditors' bills; that is to say, bills in equity after judgment for a
sum certain had been obtained at law, after execution had
issued on such judgment, and after a return of nulla bona
had been made on that judgment. Now, of such bills in
chancery,-though, of course, not of ordinary chancery
bills,-it is a property that on service of process they operate as liens from the time of their being filed. And well
they may. They rest on and recite a prior solemn judgment
*Proctor

v. Ferebec, 1 Iredell Eq. 143.

t Shepherd v. Ross Co. Com., 7 Ohio, 271.
1 Chatauque Co. Bank v. White, 2 Selden, 252.

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

at law unsatisfied. They declare a previous debt, of which
the party stands "convict" of public record. They are, in
fact, but a prolongation and extension of the judgment,
making it apply, by the bill, to equitable rights, as without
them it will to legal. In Chittendenv. Brewster, at this term,*
Nelson, J., speaking for this court, and referring to a contract upon "creditors' bills," says: "The bill in the Circuit
Court . .

.

. was first filed, and, consequently, operated as

the first lien." The fact that such bills will operate as liens,
and in the order of their being filed, is here assumed as of
course. Now a creditor's bill will operate on every species
of property. Le Roy v. Bogers, in the Chancery of New
York,t thus declares. That was a creditor's bill, filed or the
return of an execution unsatisfied. The bill stated the judgment and return of execution, and charged that the defendant was entitled, or interested in, or possessed of, personal
property, money, bank stock, insurance stock, choses in
action, &c. The bill further charged that the defendant,
since making the covenant on which the judgment was
recovered, had made some assignment, or transfer of his
property, upon some secret trust, or other trust, for the
benefit of himself, &c.; and it prayed a discovery of the
property and effects of the defendant, &c. The case was
heard on demurrer to the bill, and the chancellor says:
"The complainant was entitled to a discovery of all the real
estate of the defendant which he had within the city of New
York at the time of the docketing of the judgment, although
such property may have been fairly disposed of since that
time."
It may be said that because the bill in the case of the
Lyons contained the description of the real estate conveyed
more definitely than the bill of Mills & Bliss, therefore
that such a description gave the bill and proceedings greater
efficacy. But the case of Mills & Bliss being, like that of
the Lyons, what is called a creditor's bill,-a bill filed upon
the return of an execution unsatisfied,-praying for discovery
* Supma, p. :96,

t 8 Paige, 286.

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff it&error.

and relief-there was no necessity of describing the land
asserted to have been fraudulently conveyed. If, indeed,
the creditor levies his execution upon the real estate fraudulently conveyed, and then asks the aid of a court of chancery
to give to his execution levy full form and effect, to enable
him to sell the legal title, and give the purchaser a title free
from obstruction, then the property must be described, and the
facts of the levy and fraudulent obstruction must be stated,
as it is that which gives the court jurisdiction of the case.
But that is not this case. The court, here, had jurisdiction
because of the allegations in the bill that the property was
beyond the reach of an execution at law; that the defendant
had an interest in real estate fraudulently disposed of, and
that the complainant had no definite knowledge as to the
property and its condition and the interest of Miller in it.
When discovery was obtained, and the description of the
property and condition of the title ascertained, then the
court had power to subject the property to the payment of
the debts in the manner best calculated to reach the object
at the least expense. If a creditor had all the knowledge as
to the situation of the property and title which discovery
would give them, there would be no need of asking discovery, and he could proceed to effect a specific lien at once
upon the property.
In Conrad v. Atlantic Insurance Company,* in this court,
Story, J., says: "Now, it is not understood that a general
lien, by judgment on lands, constitutes, per se, a property or
right in the land itself. It only confers a right to levy on
the same to the exclusion of other adverse interests, subsequent to judgment; and when the levy is actually made on
the same, the title of the creditorfor this purpose relates back to
the time of his judgment, so as to cut out intermediate incumbrances." We submit that the title or right acquired by the
filing of the bill and service of process, is as perfect and
absolute as the right of a judgment lien given by statute;
and when the title is obtained, under the decree, it relates
* 1 Peters, 44.1

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

back to the time of filing the bill, the same as a levy and
execution does to the date of the lien of the judgment.
Under the rule, thus interpreted, all parties can obtain their
rights, when fixed, without conflict, and in a manner least
expensive, and according to sound principles of equity.
2. As respects the homestead reservation. The law which
thus protects a man and his wife and children from a cruel
and remorseless creditor, and gives to them at least a humble
home,-one peaceful shelter from the misfortunes of the
world,-is a law which does infinite honor to the refinement
of America. Such a law was quite above the civilization of
our British ancestors; they have never yet reached it; fhough
they have before them in ancient Rome record of the honor
that was given to the "domus in qu pater decessit; in qua minores creverunt." It is a law worthy of honest support from
every court in the land. It will receive it from this, the
highest of them all.
This statute prohibits a forced sale of the homestead upon
any process or order from any court of law or equity. Now,
Miller was a householder, and had a family, and resided
upon the property. The act states that no release or waiver
of the exemption shall be valid, unless the same shall be in
writing, subscribed by such householder and his wife, if he
have one, and acknowledged in the same manner as conveyances of real estate are by law required to be acknowledged.
Without this requirement of law being complied with, the
conveyance is invalid, and cannot become a valid conveyance
of the property even after the homestead right ceases to exist.
The legislature put the same construction upon the law, in
declaring the intention to be to require, in all cases, the signature of the wife as a condition to the alienation of the
homestead. If the homestead exemption given by law has
direct reference to the land and building thereon, then the
householder can control the fee of the property, and no lien
can attach, unless made as provided by law; nor can any
sale by the debtor, or by order of court, be made, except as
provided by law. A forced sale would be as invalid as a
Rale by the debtor. The law gives the right and bestows

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the defendant in error

the benefit, and no act of the parties, either voluntary or
otherwise, can have the effect to defeat the right, except in
the manner prescribed by law. In cases where the householder and his wife are made parties to suits, as in the Lyons
case, and they make default, a decree cannot divest them
of the rights conferred by the law. It follows, as a matter
of law, that the conveyance by Miller to Williams was invalid, and conveyed nothing; and, also, the decree and sale, in
the case. On the other hand, the conveyance by Miller to
the receiver is not invalid, nor is the deed of the receiver
to Benedict, as the homestead right was reserved in both
deeds.* The receiver's deed to Benedict, under the proceeding of Mills & Bliss, differs from that made by the
master in the Lyons case, which did not convey subject to
this right; although, on the bill being filed by the Lyons,
they state that the place which they sought to get was the
home of Miller and his family; a statement which proves as
well a knowledge of the law which secured it to them.
Messrs. Browning and Ewing, contra:
1. Under the bill filed by the Lyons,-a true "creditor's
bill,"-the conveyance to Williams was found to be fraudulent, and the master in chancery of the court was directed
to sell the lots in question, and to execute deeds to the purchasers, "which shall bar and divest all, and all manner of
interest or right, or right of redemption, which the said
Miller, or any of said defendants, may have in and to the
said property, or any part thereof."
The master sold, pursuant to decree, and conveyed to
Bushnell, the purchaser, whose title Sherry holds. Under
such an order, we submit that a legal title did pass.
The lien of the elder judgment, the one in favor of Mills
& Bliss, if still subsisting, does not affect the transfer of
title by the master's sale in the Lyons case. The bill in
equity of Mills & Bliss is not a general creditor's bill. Its
end is the satisfaction of their own judgment. They ask to
Patterson v. Kreig, 29 Illinois, 514.

Dec. 186-1.]

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

Argument for the defendant in error.

set aside transfers which they allege to be fraudulent as to
them and their judgment, not as to any other judgment creditors. They designate such property as they choose to go
against to satisfy their judgment, and they bring in such
fraudulent assignees as they choose to charge. Their original bill could have no effect on persons and property not
named in it. For example: the lots in controversy might
have been conveyed by Williams to an innocent third person for a full and fair consideration, without actual notice, and
the U1s pendens, such as it was, would have been no notice.
The averment in the bill that Miller was, at the time of the
judgment entered, and is now the owner of or in some way
or manner beneficially interested in some real estate in this or
some other State or Territory, amounts to nothing; it is
notice to nobody and of no thing. Neither Williams nor the
lots were parties to the bill of Mills & Bliss. The principle
of li ipendens is, that the specific property must be so pointed
out by the proceedings as to warn the whole world that they
meddle with it at their peril.*
3. As to the homestead. Proof of a homestead in a large property, many times the value of the homestead reservation,
cannot, in ejectment, bar the recovery of the whole property.
The lots here were worth about $2700. The exemption is
for $1000. Some judicial mode must be resorted to of determining the extent of the reservation, and he who sets up
the special and indefinite defence ought to define it. Perhaps, if the homestead be worth no more than is reserved,
the presentation by evidence of the fact were enough, but
if worth more, it should be set up by some appropriate form
of motion or petition, so that the issue could be tried, and
the value of the homestead set out, so that the jury could
find defendant not guilty of the homestead, and guilty of the
excess. But with this the court could do nothing of their
own mere motion. The defendant, who relied upon the
defence, should by some kind of petition or plea, or special
* Lewis v. Mew, 1 Strobbart's Equity, 180; Griffith v. Griffth, 1 Hoff
Inan's Chancery R. 153; Price v. White, Bailey's Equity, 244.

MILLER V. SHERRY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

motion for instructions, have placed the case in such position that the court could give its charge without making
pleading or representations for him, or otherwise shaping
his case.
If the homestead exemption had been set up in the chancery proceeding by the Lyons, as it should have been, if
intended to be relied upon at all, it would not have been a
full defence to the action, but a defence pro tanto only. It
would not have prevented a decree, but have produced a
modification of it only,-either that the property be divided,
and the excess sold, or all sold, and the excess over $1000
applied on the judgment. But here it is insisted upon as a
defence to the entire action. It would be a fraud upon judicial proceedings for a party to withhold what would be only
a partial defence, if presented at the proper time, in a direct
proceeding, and set it up collaterally to defeat the entire
action.
Mr. Justice SWAYI{E delivered the opinion of the court.
The proceedings under the bill filed by the Lyons appear
to have been, in all respects, regular. W. &W. Lyons had
obtained a judgment at law and issued an execution, upon
which the return of nulls bona was made. This laid the
foundation for a creditor's bill, and such a bill was filed.
The necessary parties were brought before the court and
answered.
The court had full jurisdiction, both as to the parties and
the property. The decree was regularly entered, and the
sale and conveyance by the master to Bushnell were made
in pursuance of it. The only objection taken to the proceedings is, that Williams, in whom was vested the legal
title, was not ordered to convey, and did not convey. A
conveyance by him was not necessary.
Where a court of equity has jurisdiction, as in this case, a
sale and conveyance in obedience to a decree is as effectual
to convey the title as the deed of a sheriff, made pursuant to
a sale under an execution issued upon a judgment at law
When the object of the suit is to compel the conveyance of the

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V.

SHERRY.

Opinion of the court.

legal title by the defendant, and the decree does not require
a sale, the title will not pass until the deed is executed,-unless it be provided, as has been done in some of the States,
by statute, that the decree itself shall operate as a conveyance. In all such cases, the court has power to compel the
defendant to convey. When the property is beyond the
local jurisdiction of the court, and the defendant is before it,
the court can compel him to convey, as it may direct, for
any purpose within the sphere of its authority. This is an
ordinary exercise of the remedial jurisdiction of those courts,
and the power is one of the most valuable attributes of the
equity system. The principle of those cases has no application here. The title derived by Bushnell from these proceedings must be deemed perfect, unless it be invalidated
by that derived to Benedict from the sale and conveyance
under the bill of Mills & Bliss.
The judgment obtained by Mills & Bliss, was the elder
one, but it was subsequent to the conveyance from Miller to
Williams. It is not contended that the judgment was a lien
on the premises. The legal title having passed from the
judgment debtor before its rendition, by a deed valid as
between him and his grantee, it could not have that effect
by operation of law. The questions to be considered arise
wholly out of the chancery proceedings.
The filing of a creditor's bill and the service of process
creates a lien in equity upon the effects of the judgment
debtor.* It has been aptly termed an "equitable levy." t
The original bill was in the form of a creditor's bill, as
found in the appendix to Barbour's Ohaucery Practice. It
contained nothing specific, except as to the transactions be.
tween Miller and Richardson. There was no other part of
the bill upon which issue could have been taken as to any
particular property. It was effectual for the purpose of
creating a general lien upon the assets of Miller,--as the
* Bayard v. Hoffman, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 450; Beck v. Burdett, I
Paige, 808; Slorm v. Waddel, 2 Johnson's Chancery, 494; Corning V
White, 2 Paige, 667; Edgell v. Haywood, 3 Atkyns, 252; 1 Kent,263.
I- Tilford et al. v. Burnham et al., 7 Dana, 110.

250

MILLER V. SHERRY.

[Sup.

t

Opinion of the court.

means of discovery, and as the foundation for an injunc.
tion,-and for an order that he should convey to a receiver.
If it became necessary to litigate as to any specilic claim,
other than that against Richardson, an amendment to the
bill would have been indispensable. It did not create a Us
pendens, operating as notice, as to any real estate. To have
that effect, a bill must be so definite in the description, that
any one reading it can learn thereby what property is intended to be made the subject of litigation. In Griffith v.
Griffith,* it is said:
"To have made such a bill constructive notice to a purchaser from the defendant therein, it would have been
necessary to allege therein that these particular lots, or that
all the real estate of the defendant in the city of New York,
had been purchased and paid for, either wholly or in part,
with the funds of the infant complainant. Or some other
charge of a similar nature should have been inserted in the
bill, to enable purchasers, by an examination of the bill itself,
to see that the complainant claimed the right to, or some
equitable interest in, or lien on, the premises."
It is evident that the premises in controversy were not in
the mind of the pleader when this bill was drawn.
There is another reason why the bill could not operate as
constructive notice. Williams, who held the legal title, was
not a party. "We apprehend that to affect a party as a
purchaser pendente lite, it is necessary to show that the holder
of the legal title was impleaded before the purchase which
is to be set aside."t The principle applies only to those
who acquire an interest from a defendant pendente lite.. The
title passed from Williams to Bushnell.
The amended bill was undoubtedly sufficient, and it made
Williams a party. But he was not served with process, and
if he had been, this bill could have operated only from the
time of the service. Where the question of Us pendens arises
* 9 Paige, 317.

t Carr v. Callaghan, 3 Littell, 371.
+ Stuyvesant v. Hall, 2 Barbour's Chancery Rep. 151; Fenwick's Admr
v. Macey, 2 B. Monroe, 470; Parks v. Jackson, 11 Wendell, 442.

Dec. 1864.]

MILLER V. SHERRY.

Opinion of the court.

upon an amended bill, it is regarded as an original bill for
that purpose.* It was a gross irregularity to take a decree
against Miller without Williams being before the court, and
if the attention of the court had been called to the subject,
the amended bill must have been dismissed. The decree
against Miller as to the premises in controversy is a legal
anomaly. But it is unnecessary to consider this subject,
because before the amended bill was filed, the proceedingz
under the bill of the Lyons had been brought to a close, and
the title of Bushnell consummated. His rights could not be
afected by anything that occurred subsequently. He had
no constructive notice of the proceedings in the case of Mills
& Bliss. Had he and his alienee actual notice? This, also,
is a material inquiry.t We have looked carefully through
the record and find no evidence on the subject. Had the
suit below been in equity, it would have been necessary for
the defendant in error to deny notice to himself or to his
grantor. The want of notice to either would have been
sufficient. The form of the action rendered a denial unnecessary. The plaintiff having exhibited a title, apparently
perfect, the burden was cast upon the defendant of proving
everything upon which he relied to defeat it. As the case
was developed on the trial in the court below, the title of
the defendant in error properly prevailed.
2. In regard to the homestead right claimed by the plaintiff
in error, there is no difficulty. The decree under which the
sale was made to Bushnell expressly divested the defendant
of all right and interest in the premises. It cannot be collaterally questioned. Until reversed, it is conclusive upon
the parties, and the reversal would not affect a title acquired
under it while it was in force.
We think that the learned judge who tried the case
below, was correct in refusing to give the instructions sub.
mitted by the plaintiff in error, and in giving those to whieb
exception was taken.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.
Clarkson et al. v. Mfforgan's devisees and others, 6 B. Monroe, 441.
t Parks v. Jackson, 11 Wendell, 442; Roberts v. Jackson, 1 Id. 478

