OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The powers the people have given to the General Government are named in the Constitution, and all not there
named, either expressly or by implication, are reserved to the
people and can be exercised only by them, or upon further
grant from them.
Third. No testimony was offered on the hearing before the
Circuit Court other than that taken before the immigration
board of inquiry, and none before such board save that preserved in its report. Hence the facts must be determined by
that evidence. It is not an unreasonable deduction therefrom
that petitioner is an anarchist in the commonly accepted
sense of the term, one who urges a~d seeks the overthrow by
force of all government. If that be not the fact, he should
have introduced testimony to establish the contrary. It is
unnecessary, therefore, to consider what rights he would have
if he were only what is called by way of differentiation a philosophical anarchist, one who simply entertains and expresses
the opinion that all government is a mistake, and that society
would be better off without any.

HEWIT v. BERLIN MACHINE WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 228. Argued April 18, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

A trustee in bankruptcy gets no better title than that which the bankrupt
had and is not a subsequent purchaser, in good faith, within the meaning
tf § 112 of chapter 418, of the laws of 1897 of New York. And as the
vendor's title under a conditional sale is good against the bankrupt it is
good also against the trustee.
LOREN

M.

HEWIT,

as trustee in bankruptcy of Clard-E.

HEWIT r'. BERLIN.MACHINE WORKS.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Kellogg, applied to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of New York for an order of sale of certain
real estate, buildings and machinery. Notice tb creditors was
given, and thereafter the Berlin Machine Works, a corporation, filed its petition, praying, on grounds set forth, to be
declared the owner of certain machines included in the property and be awarded possession thereof, and that they be
exempted from sale, or that it be determined that the corporation is entitled to be first paid out of the proceeds of the
sale of the machines and to share in dividends on any unpaid
balance. 'The matter was heard before the referee, who held
that the corporation had lost the legal title to the machines,
and must come in as an unsecured creditor. The corporation
petitioned the District Court for a review of' the referee's
decision, the referee made his certificate and return, and the
matter was submitted to the court, which thereafter reversed
the decision of the rc.t4ee and adjudged that the Berlin Machine Works had a good and valid title to, the machines, and
that the same be delivered to it, or, in the event that they.
had been disposed of, that the trustee pay over to the Berlin
Machine Works the sum of twelve hundred dollars, the value
of the machines. 112 Fed. Rep. 52.
The trustee then filed a petition in the District Court making
application for revision and review in matter of law, and
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the judgment of the District Court, and the District
Court ordered "that a superintendency and revision and review in matter of law and an appeal be and the same hereby
is allowed in the above-entitled proceedings to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Second Circuit of the United States." The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the Disrict
Court, 118 Fed. Rep 1017, and thereupon an appeal was
allowed to this court.
Mr. Frank H. Robinson for appellant:
There is no such provision as § 70, a-5, of the act of 1898,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

in either the act of 1841, or act of 1867. Youkon Woolen Co.,
96 Fed. Rep. 326; In re Tatem, Mann & Co., 110 Fed. Rep.
519; In re Booth, 98 Fed. Rep. 975; In re Garcewich, 115 Fed.
Rep. 87; In re Frazier, 117 Fed, Rep. 746. As to N. Y.
Economical Printing Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 514, see Shoe Co. v.
Seldner, 10 Am. B. R. 470.
The policy of the Bankrupt Act is to clothe the trustee with
title as against secret titles, liens and equities and compel
everybody to comply with the state statutes or lose their
title, lien or equity and to give the trustee the protection which
a purchaser in good faith or a creditor enjoys, and to prevent
an action being brought against the trustee for conversion
years after he had sold the property and distributed the proceeds as an officer of this court.
The reservation of title was void as against the bankrupt,
void as against her grantee and void as against the trustee
in bankruptcy.
The withholding from the files the conditional sale or failure
to otherwise comply with the statute was an actual fraud
upon creditors. The purpose of the statute was to prevent
conditional sales from remaining unpublished. In re Garcewich, 115 Fed. Rep. 87; Frank v. Batten, 49 Hun, 91; Moyer
v. McIntyre, 43 Hun, 58.
Mr. Charles M. Harrington for appellee:
At common law a vendor of chattels may lawfully make it
a condition of his sale that title to the property shall remain
in him until the purchase price is fully paid, and under such
a conditional sale, title will not pass to the vendee until the
condition be fulfilled. 2 Kent, 12th ed. 498; Benjamin on
Sales, § 320; Ballard v. Burgett, 40 N. Y. 314; Cole v. Mann,
62 N. Y. 1; Boon v. Moss, 70 N. Y. 465, 473; Graves Elevator
Co. v. Callanan, 11 App. Div. 301; Davison v. Davis, 125
U. S. 90.
The common law in respect to conditional sales has been
somewhat modified by statute in many of the States, without,

HEWIT v. BERLIN MACHINE WORKS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

however, any uniformity of legislation on the subject. Matter
of Kinat, 2 Nat. Bkcy. N. & R. 369, and Youkon Woolen Co.,
96 Fed. Rep. 326, distinguished, as involving different state
statutes.
Statutes changing the common law must be strictly construed, and the common law must be held no further abrogated
than the clear import of the language used in the statute
absolutely requires. Fitzgerald v. Quann, 109 N. Y. 441.
The contract that title to the moulders ordered by and de-,
livered to the bankrupt shall remain in the manufacturers
until fully paid for, is valid.
It is only purchasers in good faith who can claim the benefit
of the statute. P. & T. S. Co. v. Schirmer, 136 N. Y. 305.
The trustee in bankruptcy (the appellant here) is not a purchaser in good faith, and has no greater right to the machines
in question than had the bankrupt. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1228;
Winsor v. McClellan, 2 Story, 630; Greatman v. Savings Institution, 95 U. S. 764; Stewart v. Platt, 101 U. S. 731; Hanselt
v. Harrison, 105 U. S. 401, 406; Chattanooga Nat. Bank v.
Rome Iron Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 7.55; Re N. Y. Economical Printing Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 514.
The Bankrupt Act of 1898 does not confer on a trustee in*
bankruptcy any greater rights than the bankrupt possessed,
in respect to property obtained by the bankrupt under a conditional bill of sale. Casey v. Cavaroo, 96 U. S. 467 (law of
1867); ChattanoogaNat. Bank v. Rome Iron Co., 102 Fed. Rep.
755; Re N. Y. Economical Printing Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 514;
Re Bozeman, 2 Am. B. R. 809; Re Garcewich, 8 Am. B. R. 149;
Re McCay, 1 Am. B. R. 292; section 70 (a) Bankruptcy Law
of 1898.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
If the trustee had carried the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals on petition for supervision and revision under see-

800 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

tion 24b of the bankruptcy law, the case would have fallen
within Holden v. Stratton, 191 U. S. 115, and the appeal to
this court would have failed. hTut he took it there by appeal,
* though accompanied by some apparent effort to avail himself
also of the other method. And as the Berlin Machine Works
asserted'title to the property in the possession of the trustee
by an intervention raising a distinct and separable issue, the
controversy may be treated as one of those "'controversies
arising in bankruptcy proceedings" over which the Circuit
Court of Appeals could, under section 2 4a, exercise appellate
jurisdiction as in other cases. Section 25a relates to appeals
from judgments in certain enumerated steps in bankruptcy
proceedings, in respect of which special provision therefor
was required, Holden v. Stratton, supra, while section 24a relates to controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings in
the exercise by the bankruptcy courts of the jurisdiction,
vested in them at law and in equity by section 2, to settle the
estates of bankrupts 'and to determine controversies in relation thereto. Hutchinson v. Otis, 190 U. S. 552; 13urleigh v.
Foreman, 125 Fed. Rep. 217.
The appeal to this court then followed under section 6 of
the act of March 3,1891.
This brings us to the consideration of the case on the merits!
The material facts -are these- October 10, 1900, Clara E.
Kellogg 'contracted with the Berlin Machine Works for the
purchase of two wood working machines at the price of $1,850,
payment to be made within four months from date of shipment, and title to the property to remain in' the 'machine
company until fully paid for. The machines were shipped
to Kellogg, October 29 and November 16, respectively, and
were received by her, set up in her planing mill, and put in
operation. October 29 and November 16 she signed and delivered to the machine company in payment for the machines
two prorhissory notes for $925 each, payable -in two and four
iio0iths from their respective dates, to the order of the machine company, 'and each containing the following clause:

HEWIT v. BERLIN MACHINE WORKS.
194 U. S.

Opinion og the Court.

"Title and right of possession of the property for which this
note is given remains in the Berlin Machine Works until fully
paid for." Kellogg, on her woluntary petition, was adjudicated a bankrupt, March 1, 1901, and a trustee was selected
March 22, and thereafter duly qualified. The notes have not
been paid and were mentioned in the schedules as secured
claims, the security being the machines in question. It also
appeared 'that January 21, 1901, Clara E. Kellogg, being
insolvent, executed a conveyance of the planing mill to a
corporation called the C. E. Kellogg Company, which being
attacked as fraudulent, the property was voluntarily released
to the trustee, all the capital stock of the company, the entire
consideration of the alleged transfer, being surrendered to the
company.
This sa!c was a conditional sale and the title did not pass
to the vendee because the condition was not fulfilled, Ballard
v. Burgett, 40 N. Y. 314; Cole v. Mann, 62 N. Y. 1, unless the
statutes of New York otherwise provided. The applicable
statute is section 112 of chapter 418 of the Laws of 1897, which
reads as follows:
"Conditions and reservations in contracts for sale of goods
and chattels: Except as otherwise provided in this article, all
conditions and reservations in a contract for the conditional
sale of go is and chattels, accompanied by immediate delivery and continued possession of the thing contracted to be
sold, to tne effect that the ownership of such goods and chattels
is to remain in the conditional vendor or in a person other
than the condiitional vendee, until they are paid for, or until
the occurrence of a future event or contingency, shall be void
as against subsequent purchasers, pledgees or mortgagees in
good faith, and as to them ,the sale shall be deemed absolute,
unless such contract of sale containing such conditions and
reservations, or a true copy thereof, be filed as directed in this
article."
It is admitted that the machine company (lid not comply
with the statute until after the appointment and qualification

OCTOBERt TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

of the trustee, but if the trustee was not a subsequent purchaser, pledgee or mortgagee in good faith, the omission to
file the contract of sale was immaterial. Prentiss Tool &
Supply Company v. Schirmer, 136 N. Y. 305.

Did the trustee occupy the position of a subsequent purchaser, pledgee or mortgagee in good faith? We dismiss the
.pretended conveyance by Kellogg to the Kellogg Company
from discussion as the District Court did, as it was attacked
as fraudulent and without consideration, and was voluntarily
released to the trustee, who derived no title thereby, and had
none other than by operation of law.
Section 70a of the bankruptcy law provides:
"The trustee of the estate of a bankrupt, upon his appointment and qualification,

.

.

.

shall

.

.

.

be vested by

operation of law with the title of the bmkmrupt, as of the date
he was adjudged a bankrupt,

.

.

.

to all

.

.

.

(5)

property which prior to the filing of the petition he could by
any means have transferred or which might have been levied
upon and sold under judicial process against him."
The District Court, Hazel, J., held that the reasonable construction of this provision was that the trustee was vested
with the title which the bankrupt had to property situated as
described, and not otherwise, and quoted from the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in the case
of In re New York Economical Printing Company, 110 Fed.

Rep. 514, upholding that view, as follows: "The bankrupt act
does not vest the trustee with any better right or title to the
bankrupt's property than belongs to the bankrupt or to his
creditors at, the time when the trustee's title accrues. The
present act, like all preceding bankrupt acts, contenplates
that a lien good at that time as against the debtor and as
against all of his creditors shall remain undisturbed. If it is
one which has been obtained in contravention of some provision of the act, which is fraudulent as to creditors, or invalid
as to creditors for want of record, it is invalid as to the trustee."
And the Circuit Court of Appeals, adhering to that decision,

HANKS DENTAL ASSN. v. TOOTH CROWN CO. 303
194 U. S.

Syllabus,

held in this case that, inasmuch as by the New York statute
,a conditional sale such as that in question was void only as
against subsequent purchasers or pledgees or mortgagees in
good faith, the District Court was right, and affirmed the
judgment. 118 Fed. Rep. 1017.
We concur in this view which is sustained by decisions under
previous bankruptcy laws, Winsor v. McLellan, 2 Story, 492;
Donaldson v. Farwell, 93 U. S. 631; Yeatman v. Savings Institution, 95 U. S. 764; and is not shaken by a different result
.in cases arising in States by whose laws conditional sales are
void as against creditors.
In our opinion, these machines were not, prior to the filing
of the petition, property which, under the law of New York,
might have been levied upon and sold under judicial process
against the bankrupt; nor could she have transferred it within
the intent and meaning of section 70a. See Low v. Welch,
139 Massachusetts, 33. The company's title was good as
against the trustee, who could not claim as a subsequent purchaser in good faith.
Judgment affirmed.

HANKS DENTAL ASSOCIATION v. INTERNATIONAL
TOOTH CROWN COMPANY.
ON A CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR'
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 253. Argued April 26, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

The act of March 9, 1892, 27 Stat. 7, in regard to taking testimony, does
not repeal or modify § 861, Rev. Stat., or create any additional exceptions to those specified in the subsequent sections by enlarging the causes
or grounds for taking depositions, and is not supplementary to § 914,

Rev. Stat.

