CROWLEY v. UNITED. STATES.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

the party injured by the disobedience, although called one in
a contempt proceeding, it is to be regarded as merely an interlocutory order, and to be reviewed only on appeal from the
final decree.
In the present case, however, the fine payable to the United
States was clearly punitive and in vindication of the authority
of the court, and, we think, as such it dominates the proceeding and fixes its character. Considered in that aspect, the writ
of error was justified, and the Circuit Court of Appeals should
have taken jurisdiction.
Petitioner entitled to mandamus.

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
N o. 205: Submitted April 12, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Where the accused contends in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Porto Rico, that under the provisions- of the Foraker act
of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, the qualifications of the grand jurors by
whom he was indicted should have been controlled by the local law of
January 31, 1901, and the court decides adversely, a right is claimed under a statute of the United States and denied; and under § 35 of the Foraker act this court has jurisdiction on writ of error to review the judgrent.
Under § 14 and 34 of the Foraker act providing that the District Court of
the United States for the District of Porto Rico shall have jurisdiction
in all c&ses cognizant in, the Circuit Courts of the United States and shall
proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit Court, the provisions of
§ 800, Rev. Stat., apply to criminal prosecutions, and the .court must recognize any valid existing local statute as to the qualification of jurors in
the same manner as a Circuit Court of the United States is controlled in
criminal prosecutions by the applicable statute of the State in which it is
sitting.
The disqualification of a grand juror prescribed by statute is a matter of
substance which cannot be regarded as a mere defect or imperfection
within the meaning of § 1025, Rev. Stat.

-OCTOBER TERM, .1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

After April 1, 1901, there was a local statute in Porto Rico, regulating the
qualifications of jurors and the presence of persons on the grand jury of
the District Court of the United States for the District of Porto Rico
disqualified4 under that act and who were summoned to serve after the
act took effect, vitiates the indictment when the facts are seasonably
brought to the attention of the court.
An objection by pleas in abatement, and before arraignment of the accused,
to an indictment on the ground that some of the grand jurors were disqualified by law, was in due time and was made in a proper way.
Quere and not decided whether the presence of jurors disqualified by the
act, but summoned before it took effect, would affect an indictment found
after the act took effect.
THE plaintiff in error was indicted in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Porto Rico as constituted
by the act of Congress of April 12, 1900, entitled "An act
temporarily to provide revenues and a civil government for
Porto Rico, and for other purposes." 31 Stat. 77, c. 191.
The indictment was based upon certain sections of the
Revised Statutes of the United States relating to crimes committed by persons employed in the postal service. Rev. Stat.
§§ 5467, 5468 and 5469. The punishment for the offence here
.charged was imprisonment at hard labor for one year and not
exceeding five years.
After the return of the indictment the accused filed a plea
in abatement, which quesiioned the competency of certain
jurors who participated in the finding of the indictment.
As the action of the court on that plea constitutes the controlling question in the case, the plea is given- in full as follows:
"Now comes the defendant, Harold Crowley, and pleads in
abatement to the -indictment .returned herein, and says that
on Monday, the 8th day of April, 1901, there appeared in this
court at San Juan, it being the first 'day of said term, the
following-named persons: Manuel Romero Haxthausen, Pedro
Fernandez, Alex. Nones, John D. H. Luce, Antonio Blanco,
Manuel Andino Pacheco, E. L. Arnold, Henry V. Dooley,
J. Ramon Latimer, Miguel Olmedo, Ramon Gandie, Charles
H. Post, numbering twelve in all, which said persons Were
then and there, by the direction of the court and the marshal,

CROWLEY* r. UNITE D STATES.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

placed in the jury box, to constitute the panel for the grand
jury of this said April term, 1901, of this court.
"Whereupon the court*then ordered the marshal to summon
other persons to fill up the panel of the said grand jury,, and
immediately the marshal of the court'sent his deputy out of
,the court room and into the city of San Juan to summon other
jurors for such grand jury. Within a few minutes thereafter
the marshal brought into court Frank*Antonsanti, (returned
as Antonio Santi and Frank Santi, as appears by tht minutes
of this court,) Hugo Stern and William Bowen, the said persons
not having been then and there bystanders in'the court. The
said panel then being incomplete, the marshal placed W. H.
Holt, Jr., in the box, he being at the time a bystander in said
court.
"Defendant says that thereupon the grand jury was constituted from the persons above named, and, after being
sworn, proceeded to render a true bill against the defendant,
which said alleged true bill on indictment was by the said
grand jury, constituted as aforesaid, returned and presented
to this court on Wednesday, April tenth, 1901.
"Defendant says that by an act of the legislative assembly
of Porto Rico, which took effect January 31, 1901, it was provided (§ 3) that jurors shall have the following qualifications,
among others:
"1st. A male citizen of the Uited States or of Porto Rico,
of the age of twenty-one years and not more than sixty years,
who shall have been a resident of the island one year, and of
the district or county ninety days before being selected and
returned.
"4th. Assessed on the last assessment roll of the district or
county on property of the value of at least two hundred dollars belonging to him.
"SEc. 4. A person is not competent to act as a juror, 1st, who
does not possess the qualifications prescribed by the preceding
section-which said provisions were in full force and effect
at and before the time that all of the persons were sum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

moned and impanelled and returned said indictment as aforesaid.
"That by the law of Porto Rico as aforesaid causes of
challenge to jurors are and were at said time last above mentioned a want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law
to render a person a competent juror. Defendant [states] that
Manuel Adino is and was at the time above mentioned a citizen of the Republic of Venezuela. That W. If. Holt, Jr., has
not been a citizen of Porto Rico for one year prior to the dates
and time above mentioned when said jury was so summoned,
impanelled and returned and when said alleged indictment
was returned.
"Defendant says that at the same time last above mentioned the following persons, composing and constituting the
said grand jury, were not assessed on the last assessment roll
oT any of the districts of Porto Rico on property of the value
of two hundred dollars belonging to him: Antonio Blanco,
Mahuel Andino Pacheco, Miguel Olmedo, Charles H. Post,
Frank'Antonsanti, or Frank Santi, or Antonio Santi, W. TI.
Holt, Jr., William Bowen.
"Defendant further says that the following persons, composing and constituting said grand jury, were not at the time
above mentioned publicly drawn from the box, containing at
the time of each drawing the names of not less than three
hundred persons, possessing the qualifications prescribed in
section 800 of the Revised Statutes, and which said names
(hereinafter set out) had not been placed therein by the clerk
of this court and a jury commissioner, as provided by act of
June 30, 1879.
"Such persons whose names were not in said box and selected
and summoned inthe manner as aforesaid at the dates and
times aforesaid were Hugo Stern, W. H. Holt, Jr., Frank
Antonsanti, alias Frank Santi, alias Antonio Santi, William
Bowen.
"Defendant says that no writs of venire facias were directed
by the court against the said last above named. persons from

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
t94 tf,S.

Statement of the Case.

te clerk's office, signed by the clerk or his deputy, nor re-

turned in the manner provided by Revised Statutes, § 803.
Defendant says that he was not present in court at the time
of the selection, summoning and impanelling of the jury
aforesaid, and has had no opportunity to make any challenges
to the same as the members thereof, because he did not know
of said action and was not at the time represented by counsel,
but that he has this day learned of the aforesaid ttets for the
first time and therefore immediately presents this plea.
"Defendant says that he has been and would be greatly
prejudieed by the improper and illegal selection and impanelling
of such grand jury as aforesaid, as it was composed at the time
aforesaid of persons disqualified to act and who were not residents or taxpayers of Porto Rico, as required by law and because of their unfamiliarities with the island and the conditions
and circumstances, material matters in this case and relevant
thereto, some of said jurors as aforesaid having been but a few
.months in the island and temporarily sojourning herein.
"In addition to W. H. Holt, Jr., and William Baun, the
following gentlemen of the grand jury were American citizens:
John D. H. Luce, E. L. Arnold, .Henry W. Dooley, J. Ramon
Latimer, foreman thereof, Charles H. Post, Frank Antonsariti,
by reason of which and their supposed knowledge of such
practices by grand juries in the courts of the United States
might, and as defendant believes did, contend the deliberations
of said jury so as to induce a finding of indictment where the
Porto Rican citizens thereof might not have otherwise done."
The United States demurred to the plea upon the ground
that the matters set forth in it, so far as they controlled or were
applicable to the summoning and empanelling of-a grand jury
in the court below, disclosed no illegality therein and constituted no reason why the accused should not be required to
plead to the indictment.
The demurrer to the plea was sustained and the plea overruled. The defendant then demurred to the indictmnemit, and,
the demurrer being overruled, he pleaded to the jurirIiet ion
VOL. CM1V.. 30

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

of the court upon the ground that it had no authority to proceed at its then special term, but could only proceed at a
regular term. That plea was also overruled. The accused
was then arraigned and pleaded not guilty, and a trial was had,
resulting in a verdict of guilty and a sentence to four years'
imprisonment in the penitentiary.
Mr. Richard Crowley for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for the United
States.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question is one of the jurisdiction of this court;
the Government insisting that, under existing statutes, we are
without authority to review the judgment in this case.
By the thirty-fifth section of the Foraker act of April 12,
1900, 31 Stat. 85, c. 191, it is provided, among other things,
that writs of error and appeals to this court from the final
decisions of the District Courts of the 'United States shall be
allowed in all cases where "an act of Congress is brought in
question and the right claimed thereunder is denied." In this
case that act was brought in question by the contention of the
parties-the contention of the accused being, in substance,
that pursuant to that act of Congress the court below, in the
matter of the qualifications of grand jurors, should have been
controlled by the provisions of the local law relating to jurors,
in connection with the statutes of the United States relating
to the organization of grand juries and the trial and disposition of criminal causes; and the court below deciding that,
notwithstanding the Foraker act, the local act of January 31,
1901, referred to in the plea, was not applicable to this prosecution, and that the grand jury finding the indictment, if a grand
Jury was necessary, was organized consistently with the laws

of ito, United State

,rxder which the court proceeded.

It

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thus appears that the accused claimed a right under the act
of Congress and under the Revised Statutes of the United
States, which, it is alleged, was denied to him in the court
below. This court has, therefore, jurisdiction to inquire.
whether there is anything of substance in that claim.
The question presented.by the opposing views of the parties
is not free from difficulty. By section 14 of the Foraker act
it is provided that the statutory laws of the United States, not
locally inapplicable, except as otherwise provided, shall have
the same force and effect in Porto Rico as in the United States,
§ 14. And by section 34 it is provided that, in addition to
the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of the United
States, the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico
shall have jurisdiction "of all cases cognizant in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, and shall proceed therein in the
same manner as a Circuit Court." § 34.
Turning to the statutes of the United States, we find that
"jurors to serve in the courts of the United States, in each
State respectively, shall have the same qualifications" (subject to certain provisions and exceptions not material to be
mentioned here) "as jurors of the highest court of law in that
State may have and be entitled to at the time when such jurors
for service in the courts of the United States are summoned."

§So0.
Taking these statutory provisions all together, and having
regard to the general scope of the Foraker act, it is manifest
that Congress intended that criminal prosecutions in the
District Court of the United States in Porto Rico, for offences
against the United States, should be conducted in the same
manner as like prosecutions in the Circuit Courts of the United
States; the court in Porto Rico recognizing any valid existing
local statute relating to the qualifications for jurors, just as a
Circuit Court of the United States, in criminal prosecutions,
would be controlled, (Rev. Stat. §800,) in respect of the qualifications of jurors, by the applicable statutes of the State in
which it was sitting.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

So that we must inquire whether there was in existence any
local statute relating to the qualifications of jurors by which
the court below should have been controlled.
The plea in abatement, referring to certain provisions in a
statute of Porto Rico prescribing the qualifications of jurors,
states that it took effect January 31, 1901. That is a mistake.
It is true that the statute was passed on that day, but it did
not take effect until April 1, 1901. Rev. Stat. & Codes of
Porto Rico, 1902, pp. 172, 210, § 160.
The plea correctly states that by that statute-the authority
of the legislature of Porto Rico to pass it not being questioned
-it was provided that a person was not competent to act as a
juror who was not a male citizen of the United States or of
Porto Rico, of the age of twenty-one years, and not more than
sixty years; who had not been a resident of the island one year
and of the district or county ninety days before being selected
and returned; or who was not assessed on the last assessment
roll of the district or county on property of the value of at
least two hundred dollars, belonging to him. § 3.
In a brief opinion, made part of the record, the court below
referred to the date on which the local statute took effectApril 1, 1901-and stated that the record showed that the
venire of grand jurors for the term was executed and the
jurors summoned prior to that date. This must be construed
as applying only to those jurors who were summoned under
the regular venire; for, it is distinctly shown by the record
that the court convened April 8, 1901, after the local statute
went into effect, and that of those participating in the finding
of the indictment, four-Antonsanti, Stern, Bowen and Holt
-- were summoned by the marshal, after that date, under the
order of the court, to complete the panel of the grand jury.
And the demurrer to the plea admits that Antonsanti, Bowen,
and Holt were of those thus specially summonedafter the court
convened, and were not, when selected as jurors, assessed on
the last assessment as owners of property of the required value;
and that Holt had not been a resident of the island for one

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

year prior to his being summoned to serve on the grand jury.
It thus appears that after the local statute took effect three
persons were summoned by the marshal and put on the grand
jury who were disqualified by that statute to serve. We
perceive no reason why the District Court of the United States
for Porto Rico should not have followed that statute when
organizing the grand jury. It was then the law of Porto
Rico. There was no difficulty in applying its provisions prescribing the qualifications of jurors to pending criminal prosecutions in the court below. One of the functions of that court
was to enforce the laws of Porto Rico. If the court had given
effect to the above act and held those to be disqualified as
jurors who were declared by its provisions to be incompetent,
then it would have proceeded-as it was' required by the
Revised Statutes of the United States and by the Foraker act
to proceed--" in the same manner as a Circuit Court" of the
United States sitting in a State would proceed under the law
of such State prescribing the qualifications of jurors. But
it did not proceed in that manner. It refused to follow the
local statute.
It remains now to inquire whether the objection to the
jurors above named was taken in the proper way and in due
time. Can such an objection be made, as was done here, by
plea in abatement after the return of the indictment? Upon
this point the authorities are not in harmony. The question
is not controlled by any statute, and must depend on principles
of general law applicable to criminal proceedings in civilized
countries.
Some of the cases have gone so far as to hold that an objection to the personal qualifications of grand jurors is not
available for the accused unless made before the indictment
is returned in court. Such a rule would, in many cases,
operate to deny altogether the right of an accused to question
the qualifications of those who found the indictment against
him; for he may not know, indeed, is not entitled, of right,
to know, that his acts are the subject of examination by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

grand jury. In Commonwealth v. Smith, 9 Massachusetts, 106,
a case often referred to, the court said that "objections to the
personal qualifications of the jurors, or to the legality of the
returns, are to be made before the indictment is found." But
the court took care to observe that the decision was not rested
on that ground. And in the later case of Commonwealth v.
Parker, 2 Pick. 550, 563, Chief Justice Parker, referring to
Commonwealth v. Smith, remarked: "It is there said that objections to the personal qualifications of the grand jurors, or
to the legality of the returns, are to be made before the indictment is found. It is not necessary to apply the remark here,
and we have some doubts as to the correctness of it in all
cases; and the case in which it was made was determined on
another point."
One of the earliest cases in this country in which the ques"tion arose was that of Commonwealth v. Cherry, 2 Va. Cas. 20,
decided in 1815. It was there held that if a grand juror was
disqualified, the indictment or presentment, after being found,
could be avoided by plea in abatement.
With rare exceptions this rule is recognized and followed
in the different States. It will be appropriate to refer to some
of the cases.
In State v. Symonds, 36 Maine, 128, 132, an objection that
the indictment was not found by the required number of legal
grand jurors, being taken on motion in writing in the nature
of a plea of abatement at the arraignment of the accused, was
held to be in season and available. Later, in State v. Carver,
49 Maine, 588, 594, it was said that objections to the competency of grand jurors by whom an indictment was found
came too late if made after verdict, but must be pleaded in
abatement. See also State v. Clough, 49 Maine, 573, 577. In
State v. Herndon, 5 Blackf. 75, it was ruled that if a grand juror
was disqualified for any reason, the accused may, before issue
joined, plead the objection in avoidance. In Doyle v. State,
17 Ohio, 222, an objection, by special plea, that one of the
grand jurors by whom the indictment was found was dis-

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

qualified to act, was held not to come too late-the court
saying that "no objection can come too late which discloses
the fact that a person has been put to answer a crime in a mode
violating his legal and constitutional rights."
In McQuillen v. State, 8 S. & M. 587, 597, the High Court of
Errors and Appeals of Mississippi fully considered the question. Chief Justice Sharkey, delivering the judgment of the
court, after observing that no one can be called to answer a
charge against him, unless it has been preferred according to
the forms of law, and that any one indicted by a grand jury
can deny their power, said: "The question is, how is this to be
done? A prisoner who is in court, and against whom an indictment is about to be preferred, may undoubtedly challenge
for cause; this is not questioned. But the grand jury may
find an indictment against a person who is not in- court; how
is he to avail himself of a defective organization of the grand
jury? If he cannot do it by plea, he cannot do it in any way,
and the law works unequally by allowing one class of persons
to object to the competency of the grand jury, whilst another
class has no such privilege. This cannot be. The law furnishes the same security to all, and the same principle which
gives to a prisoner in court the right to challenge gives to one
who is not in court the right to accomplish the same end by
plea, and the current of authorities sustains such a plea.
True some may be found the. other way, but it is believed that
a large majority of the decisions are in favor of the plea.
To the list of authorities cited by counsel may be added the
name of Sir Matthew Hale, which would seem to be sufficient
to put the question at rest. 2 Hale's Pleas of the Crown, 155.
Vide also Sir William Withipole's Case, Cro. Car. 134, 147."
See also Rawls v. State, 8 S. & M. 599, 609.
The same court, in a later case, sustaining the right of accused
to challenge, by plea in abatement, the competency of the
grand jury by which he is indicted, said: "This privilege arises
not alone from the legal principles, that indictments not found
by twelve good and lawful men at the least are void and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

194 U. S.

erroneous at common law, and, therefore, some mode must
be left open for ascertaining the fact, but is well sustained as a
method for insuring to accused persons a fair and impartial
trial. Such. persons are not present when the grand jurors
are empanelled, perhaps have not been made subjects of complaint or even suspicion. It certainly would not be right to
estop a party from pleading a matter to which he could not
otherwise except.
"The interest of an accused person under indictment with the
grand jury commences at the time of the finding of the indictment. This is the point of time when, as to him, the legal
number of qualified men must exist upon the grand inquest.
Indictments not found by at least twelve good and lawful
men are void at common law. Cro. Eliz. 654; 2 Burr. 1088;
2 Hawk. P. C. 307. It is said by Hawkins, P. C. B. 2, ch. 25,
see. 28, that if any one of the grand jury, who find an indictment, be within any one of the exceptions in the statute, he
vitiates the whole, though ever so many unexceptionable persons joined with him in finding it." Barney v. State, 12 S. &
M. 68, 72.
In State v. Seaborn, 4 Dev. 305, 311, and again in State v.
Martin, 2 Iredell, 101, 120, the Supreme Court of North Carolina, speaking in each case by Chief Justice Ruffin, held that
a plea in abatement, filed at the time of arraignment, was an
appropriate mode of raising the question of the validity of
an indictment as affected by the disqualification of a grand
juror.
A leading case upon the question is Vanhook v. State, 12
Texas, 252, 268. The court there said: "The better opinion,
to be deduced from the authorities to which we have access,
seems to be that irregularities in selecting and impanelling
the grand jury, which do not relate to the competency of individual jurors, can, in general, only be objected by a challenge
to the array. But that the incomipetency, or want of the
requisite qualifications of the jurors, masy be pleaded in abatement to the indictment. And this doctrine and distinction

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

seems founded on principle. It is the right of the accused to
have the question of his guilt decided by two competent
juries before he is condemned to punishment. It is his right,
in the first place, to have the accusation passed upoi, before
he can be called upon to answer to the charge of crime, by a
grand jury composed of good and lawful men. If the jury
be not composed of such men as possess the requisite qualifications, he ought not to be put upon his trial upon a charge
preferred by them; but should be permitted to plead their
incompetency to prefer the charge and put him upon his trial,
in avoidance of the indictment. Otherwise lie may be compelled to answer to a criminal charge preferred by men who
are infamous, or unworthy to be his accusers."
In State v. Duncan and Trott, 7 Yerger, 271, 275, the accused
pleaded in abatement that one of the grand jurors who participated in the finding of the indictment was disqualified. The
Supreme Court of Tennessee, speaking by Chief Justice Catron,
afterwards a member of this court, said: "Suppose an indictment was found by a grand jury, no person composing which
was qualified? All will admit the indictment would be merely
void in fact, and ought not to be answered if the fact was made
legally to appear. So, if any one be incompetent, it is equally
void, because the proper number to constitute the grand inquest is wanting; and because he who is incompetent shall not
be one of the triers of the offence at any stage of the prosecution. There seems, at some early stage of the proceeding by
indictment, to have been some doubt whether the indictment
was void because of the incompetency of one of the grand
jurors, to set which at rest the 2 Henry IV, cli. 9, enacted
'that any indictment taken by a jury, one of whom is unqualified, shall be altogether void and of no effect.' " See
also Mann v. Fairlee, 44 Vermont, 672; State v. Williams, 3
Stew. 454; State v. Bryant, 10 Yerger, 527; State v. Cole, 17
Wisconsin, 695; State v. Brooks, 9 Alabama, 9; Jackson v.
State, 11 Texas, 261; State v. Freeman, 6 Blackf. 248; 1 Bishop
Cr. Pro. § 883, and authorities cited; I Amer. Cr. Law, § 472,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

and authorities cited; 1 Chitty's Cr. Law, 307; Bacon's Abridg.
Indictment C. Bouvier's ed. p. 53; 2 Hale, 155; 3 Inst. 34;
2 Hawk. c. 35, §§ 18, 26, 29 and 30.
We are of opinion that the objection here, that grand jurors
were disqualified by the statute of Porto Rico, was made in the
proper way and in due time. The accused was not in court
when the grand jurors were selected and the grand jury empaneled. So far as appears from the record he was not aware
that his case would be taken up by the gtand jury. It does
not appear he had, prior to the assembling of the grand jury,
been arrested for the offences for which he was indicted. But
upon the return of the indictment he was brought to the bar
of the court and gave bond for his appearance and trial. His
objection to the qualifications of the grand jurors was made
promptly-three days after the indictment was returnedbefore he was arraigned and as soon as he learned of the facts
upon which the objection was based. All this was admitted
by the demurrer to the plea in abatement. If the objection
in this case was not sufficient, then an objection made by plea
in abatement prior to arraignment, that a majority or even
all of the grand jurors returning an indictment against the
accused were disqualified by Jaw, would have been equally
unavailing. Such a result is not to be thought of.
In this connection the Government calls attention to § 1025
of the Revised Statutes, providing that "No indictment found
and presented by a grand jury in any District or Circuit or
other court of the United States shall be deemed insufficient,nor shall the trial, judgment or other proceeding thereon be
affected by reason of any defect or imperfection in matter of
form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the defendant." This section can have no bearing in the present case,
for the disqualification of a grand juror is prescribed by statute, and cannot be regarded as a mere defect or imperfection
in form; it is matter of substance which cannot be disregarded
without prejudice to an accused.
It is said that under .the Spanish law prior to the cession

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Porto Rico indictments and grand juries were unknown;
that it was allowable under the law to proceed against an
accused by a criminal information; and that the Legislative
Assembly of Porto Rico had not made any alteration of the
Spanish law in this particular when the grand jurors in this
case were summoned. The contention in this view is that the
indictment in question, having been signed by the United
States Attorney, can be treated as an information. The indictment embodies charges nfade by grand jurors, and the
signature of the United States Attorney merely attests the
action of the grand jury, whereas an information rests upon
the responsibility of the attorney representing the Government, and imports an investigation of the facts by him in his
official capacity. But, apart from these considerations, we
cannot treat the indictment as an information, for the reason,
if there were no other, that, as the defendant was accused of
an infamous crime against the United States, this prosecution
could not have been commenced in a Circuit Court of the
United States except on presentment or indictment of a grand
jury; and the positive command of the act of Congress relating
to the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico, that
the court below "shall proceed in the same manner as a Circuit Court" of the United States, precluded the prosecution
of the accused in the latter court except by presentment or
indictment.
We have seen that some of the grand jurors alleged in the
plea of abatement to be disqualified were summoned prior to
the date on which the lo'cal statute went into effect; and if the
local statute were applied to them, they would have been held
incompetent to act as jurors. But there is some ground to
hold under section 800 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, that if they were qualified when summoned, then they
did not become disqualified by reason of anything in the local
statute which went into operation after they were summoned.
By what law the qualifications of those particular jurors were
to be tested, we need not determine; for what has been said

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

as to disqualified jurors summoned after the court convened,
add after the local statute went into operation and who werenevertheless permitted to participate in the finding of the indictment, is sufficient to dispose of the case.
For the reasons stated, and without considering other questions arising upon the plea in abatement as well as upon the
record, we adjudge only that the presence on the grand jury
of persons summoned after the local statute took effect and
who were disqualified by that statute-those facts having
been seasonably brought to the attention of the court by a
plea in abatement filed before arraignment--vitiated the indictment.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer to the plea in abatement,
and for such further proceedings as may be consistent with
law.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

MR. JUSTICE WHITE

concurs in result.

dissents.

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 233. Submitted April 19, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Section 4 of the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, for the adjustment of
forfeited raib cad grant: providing for issuing patents under the conditions specified for lands sold by the grantee company to purchasers in
good faith, has no reference to any unearned lands purchased after the
date of the act from a company to which they had never been certified
or patented, although such company might have acquired an interest in
them had it completed its road. Nor can one who purchased unearned

