OCTOBER TERAM, 1903.
Counsel for Appellants.

194 U. S.

the language of the statute. It was not the function of the
Postmaster General to sit in judgment on the policy of legislation and to determine the extent to which Congress should
authorize the expenditure of public moneys. The question of
expense was entirely for the legislative branch of the Government.
Something has also been said as to the discretion committed
to the Post Office Department in determining what is and what
is not second class mailable matter. But what about the
discretion with which previous Postmasters General had been
invested, when for many years they uniformly held that such
publications as the plaintiffs' were second class mailable matter? Is the discretion of one Postmaster General to be deemed
of more importance than the discretion of five of his predecessors in office?
In our opinion the law is for the appellants, and it should
have been so adjudged.

SMITH v. PAYNE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 481. Argued March 10, 194.-Decided April 11, 1904.

What are periodicals and second class matter decided on authority of
Houghton v. Payne, ante, p. 88.
THIS was also a bill, filed by the firm of Street & Smith, to
enjoin the Postmaster General from cancelling certain certificates of entry admitting the publications of complainant firm
to the mail as second class mail matter. This case took the
same course as the preceding one.

Mr. Tracy L. Jeffords, with whom Mr. Charles FN Moody
and Mr. E. Van Buren Getty were on the brief, for appellants.

SMITH v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Henry tt. Glassie, special assistants to the Attorney General, for appellee.'
MR. JUSTICE

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs are the publishers of several different series of
novels under the names of The Columbia Library, The Bertha
Clay Library, The Magnet Detective Library, The Medal
Library, The Undine Library, The Eden Series, The Arrow
Library, and some others. The books of these series aie
apparently of an inferior class of literature, and are numbered
consecutively; but the only thing to indicate that they are
issued periodically is a notice upon the outside of the back
cover in small type that they are weekly or semi-monthly
publications.
The considerations moving us to affirm the decree of the
Court of Appeals in the case of Houghton v. Payne, just decided, apply with much greater persuasiveness to this case, and
the decree dismissing the bill is, therefore
Afrmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and The CHIEF JUSTICE dissent in this
case for the reasons stated in their dissenting opinions in
Houghton v. Payne, ante, p. 88, and Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne,
post, p. 106.
For abstracts of arguments, see p. 88, ante

