SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 217.

Argued April 14, 15, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Where a public improvement is completed, and the assessment made at the
instance and on the petition of the owners of the property, and pursuant,
in form at least, to an act of the legislature of the State, and in strict
compliance with its provisions, and with the petition there is an implied
contract that the 'parties, at whose request and for whose benefit the
work was done, will pay for it in the manner provided for by the act,
and after completion of the work they cannot set up the unconstitutionality of the act. to avoid the assessment.
An assessment made under such circumstances does not deprive the owners
of their property without due process of law nor take their property
without just compensation.
There are circumstances under which a party who is illegally assessed may
be held to have waived his remedy by conduct which renders it unjust
and inequitable to others that he should be allowed to complain of the
illegality.
An agreement that work for which their, property is assessed was legally
done and that the improvement was legally constructed, executed by
property owners for the purpose of obtaining a market for the sale of
bonds by the municipality to enable it to make the improvement in
effect provides that the lien of the assessment to pay the bonds is
valid, and they are estopped from asserting the unconstitutionality of
the law under which the assessment is made.

THIS bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States

for the Southern District of Ohio, against the defendant, as
the treasurer of the county of Franklin, in the State of Ohio,
to enjoin him from taking any proceedings towards the collection of the balance of an assessment for a local improvement
upon land belonging to the appellants near the city of Columbus, in the State of Ohio, because, among other grounds alleged
in the bill, the assessment to pay for the improvement as provided for in the act was to be made by the foot front and not in
proportion to the special benefit which might result from the
improvement to the property assessed, and on this ground it

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

was averred that the act violated the Fifth Amendment and
also section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution. The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, and
from the judgment of dismissal the plaintiffs have appealed
directly to this court, because the law of Ohio referred, to in
the bill is claimed to be in contravention of the Federal Constitution. Act of 1891, sec. 5; 1 U. S. Comp. Stat. 549.
The original plaintiffs were partners doing business under
-the name of the Alum Creek Ice Company and as such were
the Qwners of the land described in the bill, and soon after the
commencement of this suit one of the plaintiffs sold out his
interest in the -property including the land, and his grantees
were substituted as plaintiffs in his stead and assumed his
liabilities with regard .to the land. Hereinafter they will all
be described as the plaintiffs, as if they had all originally been
parties -to the suit,, and had signed the papers and made the
representations hereinafter mentioned.
The answer denied-the averments of the bill and also set up
facts which, as defendant insisted, precluded the plaintiffs
from obtaining relief l1y injunction as prayed for in the bill.
Upon the trial itiappeared that the plaintiffs and others were
separate owners of distinct portions of a tract of land adjoining
the city of Columbus, Ohio, and bounded by the Columbus and
Granville turnpike road, which was a public highway leading
to and from the city of Columbus. The tract had a frontage
on the road of 9,615.38 feet, of which the plaintiffs owned
1,111 feet.. On March 26, 1890, an act 'Was passed by the Ohio
.legislature, 87 Ohio Laws, 113, which authorized the county.
commissioners in counties in which there were situate cities
of the first grade of the second class to improve roads extending from such cities and other roads and streets in certain cases.
The act provided for an assessment by the foot front on the
adjoining land in order to pay the cost of the improvement.
Imnmediately upon! the passage of -the act and on or about
March 31, 1890, the owners of the tract, including the plaintiffs,
who were owners of a part thereof, inaugurated proceedings

SHEPARD
194 U. S.

-jBARRON.

Statement of the Case.

under the act and presented a petition to the county commissioners asking for the improvement of the road through their
property, as provided for in the act. The petition has been
lost, but the evidence shows it was signed in behalf of all the
owners of the land (including the plaintiffs) fronting or abutting
on that part of the road proposed to be improved. The persons who signed this petition and subsequently other papers,
on behalf of plaintiffs, were duly authorized so to do. The
petition was granted and the commissioners made an order to
that effect, and for the execution of the work at an expense of
$7.25 per front foot. On or about August 1, 1890, a contract
was entered into for the construction of the improvement, and
between that time and October 16, 1891, the improvement was
completed. An assessment was, on October 15, 1891, laid
upon the whole tract to pay for the cost of the improvement,
which amounted to $11.25 per front foot, thus largely exceeding
the amount originally contemplated as such cost. This cost
was thus enhanced by reason of changes of plans regarding the
improvement made from time to time as the work progressed,
and which were assented to or asked for by the land owners,
including the plaintiffs.
In order to pay the cash for the cost of this, improvement
bonds were issued and sold by the county commissioners as
provided for in the act, amounting to $110,000, in two issues,
the first of $50,000 and the second of $60,000.
The total amount of the assessment on the plaintiffs' land, assessed per front foot, as provided for in the act, was $12,812.61,
which, as the plaintiffs insist, largely exceeded the special
benefit arising from the improvement, and would result, if
enforced to its full extent, in the confiscation of plaintiffs'
property. The bonds not having been paid, an action was
brought on them against the county commissioners in the
Federal Circuit Court in Ohio, and judgment recovered by
the bondholders, which was affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals, 119 Fed. Rep. 36, without, however,
passing upon the validity of the assessment now before this

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 V. S.

court (p. 48). The act under which the improvement is made
is set forth in full in the above report.
After the plaintiffs had paid seven annual installments of
the assessment, each installment amounting to $1,256.61, and
the total being $8,810.27; there remained a balance due on the
assessment of $4,002.34, and 'this bill was filed on June 12,
1899, for the purpose of enjoining the collection of the balance
remaining unpaid on the assessment, on the grounds already
stated.
Immediately after the contract for doing the work of, improvement. was entered in to between the county commissioners
and the contractor, and in compliance with the provisions of
the act, (section 13,) the commissioners designated two of the
owners of the abutting property, who, together with the county
surveyor, were to constitute a board, which was authorized to
elect a superintendent to see that the contract was performed
according to its true intent, and that 'all orders of the county
surveyor in furtherance thereof were obeyed. Mr. Shepard,
one of the plaintiffs, was designated as a member of the board,
and acted as such, with another land owner and the county
surveyor,, and elected a superintendent as provided for in
the act.
Mr. Shepard was also frequently present during the progress
of the work and knew of the alterations in the work as they
were subsequently and from time to time made. He was
faiiliar with the law under which the action of the county
commissioners was invoked and knew that it provided for an
assessment upon the abutting property by the front foot for
the payment of the cost of the improvement.
During the progress of the work, and on June 29, 1891, the
agent of the Columbus Land Association (one of the owners
of a portion of the tract) made a written proposal to the commissioners in relation to the improvement in question, and
agreed that the land association would secure and pay the
entire expense in removing the earth upon the circle in East
Broad street and in beautifying and adorning the circle, upon

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the condition that the street around the circle should be completed and paved in accordance with the plat, order and contract mentioned. The plaintiffs, acting under the name of
the Alum Creek Ice Company, together with the other owners
of real estate abutting upon these improvements, addressed
a written communication to the county commissioners in connection with the foregoing proposal of the land company, in
which they spoke of the improvements "'now being made under
proceedings by and before this board of county commissioners
of Franklin County," and in which they also said that they
"hereby withdraw all objection to said improvement and the
assessment of their said real estate therefor on condition that
the foregoing agreement shall be kept by said Columbus Land
Association." The offer of the company was accepted, and
there is no claim made that the company did not fulfill the
agreement.
On September 2, 1891, the owners of the tract (plaintiffs
among them) petitioned the commissioners to cancel the contract, with the assent of the contractor, for sodding the sides
of the improved roadways, and gave as a reason therefor that
a number of the property owners had informed the contractor
that they would rather have grass seed sown thereon. The
petitioners concluded: "We therefore petition that you cancel
the above-mentioned contract, and that each one, for their
respective frontage upon said street, will see to it that grass
seed is sown upon said sideways of East Broad street this fall,
and take upon themselves the care and charge of the same."
The contract was cancelled, as asked for, with the consent of
the contractor.
There was also presented to the commissioners a communication signed by the owners of the land, including the plaintiffs,
asking the commissioners to cause all bonds issued by them for
the expense of the improvement to be made for a period of
twenty years from the date thereof, "and if you can extend
the time to twenty years for the bonds already sold the extension of the time at which they would mature would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S

satisfactory to the undersigned, all of which we respectfully
petition for."
There was also signed by the plaintiffs Slepard and McLeish,
among others, as members of the board appointed under the
act, (section 13,) a resolution, "That the board for the improvement of said street hereby respectfully requests the
county commissioners to do all in their power to carry out the
prayer of said petition," the petition being to the board of
county commissioners to take steps to have the bonds for the
improvement extended so as to run twenty years.
There was also signed by all the land owners, including the
plaintiffs, a communication, which, oi account of its recitals
and statement, is set forth at lngth:
"Whereas, on the 31st day of March, 1890, a petition signed
by tthe subscribers hereto was by us presented to the board of
county commissioners of Franklin County, Ohio, praying for
the improvement of the :extension of East Broad street, in this
county, beginning at the bridge across Alum Creek on said
street and extending eastwardly therefrom to the Cassady
road, which said portion of said.street lies in Marion township,
said county, which said improvement was in said petition
prayed to be made under the provisions of an act of the general
assembly of Ohio, entitled 'An act to authorize county commissioners in counties in which there are situated cities of the
first grade of the second -class,, to improve roads extexiding
from such cities, and other roads or streets in certain cases.
Passed March 26, 1890.' Which siid petition stated with what
material said street should be paved and what provisions
should be made for sidewalks, gutters and other passages for
carrying off the water, and between what points said street
was to be improved and the kind of material of a permanent
haracter said petitioners desired used in said improvement;
ind whereas said petition was signed by all the persons owning
property abutting upon the portion of said street in said petition asked* to be improved, said petition stating the number
of feet between the termini' of said improvement;

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
19.1 US.

Statement of the Case.

"And -whereas, such proceedings were had by said board of
county commissioners on said petition and in accordance with
said act of the general assembly that the prayer of said petition
was granted and said improvement made in accordance with
the prayer of said petition; and
"Whereas said original petition as well as other papers relating to said improvement have been lost or mislaid:
"Now, in consideration of said improvement and in order
that the bonds to be issued to pay for said improvement may
not lie under suspicion, or remain unsold by reason of the absence or loss of said original papers,
"We -hereby agree that such petition hereinbefore recited
was filed, signed by us as herein stated, and that we will not
set up as a defence against any assessment upon our said property abutting upon said improvement for the payment of
bonds issued on account thereof any informality arising from
the absence or loss of any of said papers but agree that said
improvement was legally made and constructed."
This paper was signed before the bonds, spoken of therein,
were issued by the commissioners. It was required by the
proposed purchasers of the bonds before they were taken and
paid for. After the paper was signed the county commissioners
thereupon issued the bonds and delivered them to the Ohio
National Bank of Columbus, as agents for the purchasers.
After the improvements were completed the plaintiffs, in
connection with other property owners, signed a petition to
the county commissioners to lay sewer pipe, (a 15 and a 24-inch
pipe,) and the petition provided: "The expense of said work
to be °assessed against the respective property on the street,
the same as other expenses for making said improvement are
levied and paid."
This is claimed to be a recognition-of the assessment after
the improvement had been made and after the land owners
knew what it was, of their willingness to be still further assessed
to effect a complete work.
Another paper, containing somewhat more in detail the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

194 U. S.

alleged facts regarding the improvement, and ending with the
statement, "Said improvement has been and is now being
legallymade and constructed, and we hereby request that you
execute and issue such further amount of bonds as shall be
necessary to pay the cost of improvement," and purporting
to be signed by the plaintiffs, among others, was offered
(though it does not appear to have been recoi fed) in evidence. It was objected to by the plaintiffs on the ground that
there was no proof that the paper had been signed by the
plaintiffs, and that if the paper was a copy of another paper
of similar import, the original was already in evidence. The
record does not disclose what was the decision upon the objection thus made. The paper, it was stipulated between the
parties, was a copy of the county commissioners' record of
Franklin County, Ohio. A motion was also subsequently
made to suppress this testimony, but no decision of the motion is disclosed by the record.,
During the making of the improvement and for some time
thereafter all parties assumed the act of 1890, under which the
improvement was made, was constitutional.
The court below upon all the evidence held that it would
consider but one matter of defence, that of estoppel, and held
that it was sufficiently made out, and accordingly dismissed,
the bill.
Mr. David F. Pugh for appellants:
The assessment was illegal; it exceeded the value of the
property. The front foot method of assessment is arbitrary
and not according to benefits received. Fay v. Springfield,
94 Fed. Rep. 409; Chamberlain v. Cleveland, 34 Ohio St. 551,
567.
The statute under which the assessment was levied deprived the property owners of due process of law. There is
no provision for notice. Charles v. City of Marion, 98 Fed.
Rep. 166; County of San Mateo v. Southern Pacific,-13 Fed.
Rep. 722.

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

This case is controlled by Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269;
and see cases cited in that opinion. Agens v. Mayor; 37 N. J.
L. 416; Bogert v. Elizabeth, 27 N. J. Eq. 568; Nammett v.
Philadelphia, 65 Pa. St. 146; Barns v. Dyer, 56 Vermont,
469.
Norwood v. Baker was not reversed by French v. Barber
Asphalt Co., 181 U. S. 324, or any of the other cases simultaneously decided. The market value as proved showed that
the property was not benefited by the assessment. Chicago
Traction Co. v. Chicago, 68 N. E. Rep. 510.
There is no merit in appellee's claim that appellants were
estopped. Either fraud or its equivalent must be proved in
order to make the principles of estoppel available in this case.
Bank v. Morgan, 117 U. S. 108; Henshaw v. Bissel, 18 Wall.
271. And see also Lyon v. Tonawanda, 98 Fed. Rep. 361;
O'Brien v. Wheelock, 95 Fed. Rep. 883. The signing of the
petition is not an estoppel. Birdseye v. Clyde, 61 Ohio St.
27. The highest court of the State has declared the act unconstitutional. Bennignus v. County Treasurer, 62 Ohio St.
666. The petitioners did not get what they petitioned for,
so estoppel does not apply. They were only bound up to the
constitutional limit of assessment and that, has beea exceeded
by payments already made. See Walsh v. Barron, 61 Ohio St.
15; Storer v. Cincinnati, 4 C. C: 278; S. C., affirmed 24 Wkly.
L. Bull. 371.. Appellee's claim that appellants are guilty of
laches is not good. Brown v. Sutton, 129 U. S. 238;.Hammond
v. Hopkins, 143 U. S. 224. They were not obliged to sue
until efforts were made to collect the assessment. Columbus
v. Angler, 44 Ohio St. 485; Lewis v. Taylor, 61 Ohio St. 471;
Cincinnati v. James, 55 Ohio St. 180. Estoppel is a question
of general law. This court can so decide it by independent.
judgment. Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678.
That the appellants purchased property subject to assessment does not estop them. Lewis v. Taylor, supra; State v.
Jersey City, 35 N. J. L. 381. No personal obligation rested
upon the owners to pay the assessment under the statute.
VOL. cxciv 36

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

Dreake v. Beasley, 26 Ohio St. 315. And the agreement of
the grantee does not create an obligation. Brewer v. Maurrier,
38 Ohio St. 550; Crowell v. Hospital, 27 N. J. Eq. 656, cited in
Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610.
Cases on appellee's brief can be distinguished and are not
applicable to the case at bar.
Mr. Henry A. Williams and Mr. Augustus T. Seymour for
appellee:
The foot front method of assessment for local surface improvement of streets is not necessarily :contrary to the Federal
Constitution. Cass Farm Co. v. Detroit, 181 U. S. 396, 397;
Tonawanda v. Lyon, 181 U. S. 389,; Detroit v. Parker, 181 U. S.
399; Schumate v. Heman, 181 U. S. 402; French v. Barber
Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 325; Webster v Fargo, 181 U. S.
623; Paulsen v. Portland, 149 U. S. 30; Fallbrook Irrigation
Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U, S. 112; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.
548; Parsons v. Dist. of Columbia, 170 U. S. 45.
Foot front method of assessing the cost of local improvements upon abutting property.has been uniformly sustained
by the Supreme Court of Ohio. Ernst v. Kunkle, 5 Ohio St.
521; Northern Indiana R. R. Co. v. Connelly, 10 Ohio St. 160;
Hill v. Higdon, 5 Ohio St. 246; Upington v. Oviat, 24 Ohio St.
232; Wilder v. Cincinnati, 26 Ohio 'St. 284; Cincinnati v.
Oliver, 31 Ohio St. 371; Jaeger v. Burr, 36 Ohio St. 371; Haviland v. Columbus, 50 Ohio St. 471; Parsons v. Columbus, 50
Ohio St. 460; Sandrock v. Columbus, 51 Ohio St. 317; Findlay
v. Frey, 51 Ohio St. 390; Schroeder v. Overman, 61 Ohio St. 1;
Walsh v. Sims, 65 Ohio St. 211; Shoemaker v. Cincinnati, 68
Ohio St. 603.
The statute is not subject to the objection that due process
of law is denied by its provisions for want of notice to property d1kners before- the levy of the assessment therein provided for. Hager,,v. Reclamation Dist., 111 U. S. 701;
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Turpin v. Lemon, 187
U. S. 51.

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

A party who might otherwise complain, may waive constitutional provisions enacted for his protection. State v. Mitchell, 31 Ohio St. 592; Tone v. Columbus, 39 Ohio St. 281; Columbus v. Sohl, 44 Ohio St. 479; Columbus v. Slyh, 44 Ohio St. 484;
Corry v. Gaynor, 22 Ohio St. 584; Treasurer v. Martin, 50
Ohio St. 197; Mott v. Hubbard, 59 Ohio St. 199.
The Ohio decisions are consistent with the holdings of this
court. Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415; Pierce v. Railway
Co., 171 U. S. 641; Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371; O'Brien
v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450.
The constitutionality of statutes similar to the one in question was uniformly upheld prior to the ehactment of this law.
State ex rel. Hibbs v. Commissioners, 35 Ohio St. 458.
Since its enactment, such- statutes have been declared unconstitutional, because of their lack of uniformity of operation.
Hixson v. Burson, 54 Ohio St. 470; State ex rel. v. Davis, 55
Ohio St. 15; Mott v. Hubbard, 59 Ohio St. 199.
The doctrine of the waiver of constitutional protection has
become a rule of property in Ohio, and not presenting a Federal question is as binding upon the United States courts as if
it were a part of the statute. Lippincott v. Mitchell, 94 U. S.
767; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Olcott v. Bynum, 17
Wall. 44; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Electric Company
v. Dow, 166 U. S. 409; Beaupre v. Noyes, 138 U. S. 397; Israel
v. Arthur, 152 U. S. 355; Marrow v. Brinkley, 129 U. S. 178;
Adams v. Burlington & U. R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 123; Schaefer
v. Werling, 188, U. S. 516; Gillis v. Stinchfield, 159 U. S. 658;
Beals v. Cone, 188 U. S. 184.
Two of appellants were estopped by reason of their assuming
and agreeing to pay the assessment in a deed of conveyance
accepted by them after the improvement was completed.
Thompson v. Thompson, 4 Ohio St. 333; Cramer v. Lepper, 26
Ohio St. 59; Freeman v. Auld, 44 N. Y. 50; Crawford v. Edwards, 36 Michigan, 355; Caldwell v. Columbus, 56 Ohio St.
759; Welsh v. Sims, Treas., 6,5 Ohio St. 211; Keller V. Ashford,
133 U. S. 610.

OCTOBER .TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
Both parties in this case seem to agree that the statute of
1890, under which these proceedings were taken, is void as in
violation of the- state constitution. As authority for that
proposition the case of Hixson v. Burson, 54 Ohio St. 470, is
cited. The case holds that a statute of a nature similar to the
one under consideration violated the provision of the Ohio
constitution, because, while i~s subject matter was general, its
operation and effect were local, thus violating the provisions
of section 26 of article 2 of the constitution of that State, which
provides that "Ali laws of a general nature shall have a uniform
operation throughout the State." The act under 'consideration in the case at bar seems to come within the principle of
the above case.
The invalidity of the act as in violation of the state constitution has also been recognized by the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the Sixth Circuit, in the case of Board of Commissioners v.
Gardiner Savings Institution, 119 Fed. Rep. 36.
The bonds were held in that ease to be valid obligations of
the county, notwithstanding the unconstitutionality of the
act under which they were issued, because at the time of their
issue, which was before the decision in Hixson v. Burson, the
Supreme Court of Ohio had held in State v. Board of Franklin
County Commissioners, 35 Ohio St. 458, that an act which was
in all respects similar in its nature to the one under consideration was constitutional and valid, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals, therefore, held that under those circumstances the
law as it had been declared at the time when the bonds were
issued was the law applicable to them.
But the plaintiffs also insist that the act is void as a violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Federal
Constitution. . The assessment per foot front, it is contended.,
leads in this case to a confiscation of the property of the plaintiffs, and is not based upon the fact of benefits received, and

SHEPARD-v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it results in taking the property of plaintiffs without due process of law.
Before coming to the consideration of the validity of these
objections to the statute the defendant insists that by virtue
of the facts already detailed in the foregoing statement the
plaintiffs are not in a position to raise the question. We regard
this objection as well taken.
The facts upon which the defence rests are above set forth
at length, not including the paper, which does not appear to
have baen received in evidence. A defence of this nature and
upon these facts need not be placed entirely upon the strict
and technical principles of an estoppel. While it partakes very
strongly of that character, it also assumes the nature of a contract, implied from the facts, by which the party obtaining the
benefit of the work agrees to pay for it in the manner provided
in the statute under which it is done, even though the statute
turn out to be unconstitutional. It does not in the least
matter what we may call the defence, whether it be estoppel
or implied contract, or one partaking of the nature of both, the
result arrived at being that the plaintiffs are told that under
all the facts proved in the case they cannot set up the unconstitutionality of the act or that they are bound by their contract to pay the assessment. Where, as in this case, the work
is done and the assessment made at the instance and request
of the plaintiffs and the other owners, and pursuant to an act
(in form, at least) of the legislature of the State, and in strict
compliance with its provisions and with the petition of the
land owners, there is an implied contract arising from such
facts that the party at whose request and for whose benefit the
work has been done will pay for it in the manner provided for
by the act under which the work was done.
In this case the manner of payment was, as provided for in
the act, by an assessment upon the land by the foot front.
The money thus collected would form a fund to be used to pay
the bonds which were to be issued in accordance with the act
by the county commissioners acting for the county. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

county thus became the debtor for a debt which was incurred
entirely for the benefit and at the request of the owners of the
land. Under such facts the county has the right to look at
the assessment upon the land as the fund out of which to pay
the bonds. In this view the constant and frequent promises
and representations made by the plaintiffs after the work was
embarked upon are material evidence of the implied contract
to pay for the work arising from the request for its performance. It is, therefore, upon these facts, immaterial that the
law under which the proceedings were conducted was uncortstitutional, because the work was done at the special request
of the owners, under the provisions of the act and upon a
contract, both implied and in substance expressed, that the
bonds would be paid and the assessment to be imposed for the
raising of a fund to pay them would be legal and proper.
Although the land owners have been greatly disappointed
in the results of the improvement and the affair has proved
somewhat disastrous, yet they have obtained just such an improvement as they asked for and expected, and they are the
ones to bear the disappointment and loss.
It is true this action is not between the bondholders and the
owners of the land. The representations and agreement of the
land owners were, however, made for the purpose of obtaining
a market for the sale of the bonds, and, in order that there
should not be any suspicion of their invalidity, the land owners
agreed that the work was legally done and the improvement
legally constructed. The representation and agreement were, in
fact, directed to all who might be interested in the matter, including the county commissioners, who were to issue the bonds
as representatives of the county. The effect was to provide,
in substance, that the lien of the assessment should be valid
and the assessment should create a fund for the payment of
the bonds. The defendant, representing the county, must be
permitted to take advantage of the representations and agreement of the land owners, as the county has a direct interest in
sustaining the validity of the assessment, and the representa-

SIEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.tions were made, among others, to the county commissioners,
who represented the county in issuing the bonds and in doing
the work.
On principles of general law, we are satisfied that the plaintiffs are not in a position to assert the unconstitutionality of
the act under which they petitioned that proceedings should be
taken and that the assessment should be made in accordance
with those provisions. This principle has been recognized in
Ohio many times. See State v. Mitchell, 31 Ohio St. 592, 609;
Tone v. Columbus, 39a Ohio St. 281, 296; City of Columbus v.
Sohl, 44 Ohio St. 479, 481; City of Columbus v. Slyh, 44
Ohio St. 484; Mott v. Hubbard, 59 Ohio St. 199, 211.
In Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371, this court, while not
positively deciding the proposition, yet strongly intimated,
(p. 377,) that by reason of the acts of the appellees they were
not in a position to question the validity of the statute there
under consideration, but as there were others than the appellees concerned, and a decision of the Court of Appeals had
declared the act void as to the appellees, it was thought better
to pass by the question whether they were estopped by having
made the dedication provided for in the act, and to decide the
question of the constitutionality of the act of Congress under
which the proceedings were had. The act was held to be valid.
Under some circumstances a party who is illegally assessed
may be held to have waived all right to a remedy by a course
of conduct which renders it unjust and inequitable to others
that he should be allowed to complain of the illegality. Such
a case would exist if one should ask for and encourage the levy
of the tax of which he subsequently complains; and some of
the cases go so far in the direction of holding that a mere
failure to give notice of objections to one who, with the knowledge of the person taxed, as contractor or otherwise, is expending money in reliance upon payment from the taxes, may
have the same effect. Cooley on Taxation, p. 573, and cases
cited in note 5; Tagh v. Adams, 10 Cush. 252; Bidwell v. City
of Pittsburg, 85 Pa. St. 412; Shutte v. Thompson, 15 Wall. 15.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Provisions of a constitutional nature, intended for the protection of the property owner, may be waived by hiia, not only
by an instrument in writing, upon a good consideration, signed
by him, but also by a course of conduct which shows an intention to waive such provision, an(l where, it would be unjust
to others to permit it to be set up. Certainly when action of
this nature has been induced at the request and upon the instigation of an individual, he ought not to be thereafter permitted, upon general principles of justice and equity, to claim
that the action which he has himself instigated and asked for,
and which has been taken upon the faith of his request, should
be held invalid and the expense thereof, which he ought to
pay, transferred to a third person.
Plaintiffs argue that, although the work was to be done
under the provisions of the act of 1890, yet they had the right
to assume that the assessment to be imposed for the payment
of the bonds would be what they term a valid assessment; or,
in other words, would be made-as they insist, not upon the
foot front, (as provided for in the acJ,) but according to the
actual benefit received from the improvement, and they cite
Birdseye v. Village of Clyde, 61 Ohio St. 27, as authority for
the proposition.
In that case it was held that the land owner was not estopped
to object to the assessment because he had acquiesced in the
construction of the improvement and had petitioned therefor,
and thereby consented to the raising of a certain proportion
.of its cost by an assessment on all abutting property. There
was, however, a statute which provided that no assessment
should be made on any lot or land for an improvement in
excess of twenty-five per cent of the value of the property as
assessed for taxation. Although the plaintiff had petitioned
for the improvement, it was held that he was not on that
account estopped from objecting to any assessment which was
over twenty-five per cent of the value of the property. It was
not to be assumed that the plaintiff waived the benefit of the
general statute because he asked for the work. The case has

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U.. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no application, as we think, to the one before us. Certainly
in the Birdseye case the plaintiff had a right to assume, notwithstanding his petition that the work should be (lone, that
the assessment on his land should not be greater than the law
provided for. But in the case at bar the petition asked for
the doing of the work under the very statute which in terms
provided that the assessment should be made by the foot
front, exactly as in fact it was made, and in making such ascessment the commissioners but complied with the request of
the petitioners.
The plaintiffs have referred to O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184
U. S. 450, as the chief authority to support their contentions
as to estoppel. In that case, while the estoppel contended for
was denied, yet, (at page 491,) it is stated, in the opinion of the
court, which was delivered by the Chief Justice, that: "The
result is not inconsistent with the cases that hold that, although a law is found to be unconstitutional, a party who has
received the full benefit under it may be compelled to pay for
that benefit according to the terms of the law. This is upon
the theory of an implied contract, the terms of which may be
sought in the invalid law and which arises when the full consideration has been received by the party against whom the
contract is sought to be enforced."
In the case. at bar it is seen that the plaintiffs did in fact
receive the full consideration for the contract. They obtained the improvement asked for, so far as the doing of the
work was concerned, although the results arising therefrom
were a great disappointment to them.
Looking at the facts in the case cited, they show that the
scheme proposed and under which the proceedings were taken
was of large proportions, and consisted of a plan to redeem
from overflow by the Mississippi River a large amount of land,
from three to five miles in width, extending along the -river
for more than fifty miles, containing over 6ne hundred thousand acres, lying in portions of three different counties, varying
greatly in condition and value, and owned severally by a great

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

number of people. The work was to' be done by building
levees and digging drains and ditches, and doing other work
by which to drain the land and render it valuable for agricultural purposes. Certain of the land owners had at all
times opposed the proceedings instituted to assess their land.
The permanent success of the scheme rested in the character
of the work and in its maintenance by compulsory process
after it had been constructed in its various branches. The
case is one seldom equalled in respect to the size of the tract
to be reclaimed at the expense of the land owners, the numbers
interested as such owners, and the immense expense of the
work.. The first requisite' was a valid act of the legislature
authorizing the work and providing a means for its accomplishment. To that end the act of 1871 was passed. The
history of the proceeding thereafter is given, commencing at
page 457 of the report in 184 U. S., but it is entirely too long
to be referred to here in detail. It is enough to 'say that, after
perusing it, there will be found great difficulty in perceiving
even a slight analogy to the case before us. The facts cannot
be summarized. They must be appreciated in all their fullness and detail, and when thus examined the result arrived
at will, as we think, seem inevitable. The case was sui generis.
The one great purpose was, not alone to build, but to maintain a work which in its nature would require constant supervision and repair. Unless the work could be maintained by
compulsion when necessary, it plainly would have appeared
at the very beginning to involve an idle waste of money. It
could not be maintained unless the act upon which the whole
scheme rested was valid, and could from time to time and
always be enforced. But that act was held to be unconstitutional long before the work was completed, and the land,
owners, on account of the inability to compel either the completion or the maintenance of the work, were unable to receive the benefit which it had been supposed would accrue
under the act thus declared illegal. The work never was

SHEPARD v. BARRON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fully and in all things completed, while the credit of the bonds,
which were issued to the contractors for doing the work and
sold by them, was maintained by reference simply to the law
under which they were issued and upon the opinion of counsel
as to its validity.
It also appears that the land owners never gave any assurances to the contractors for the work or to those who purchased the bonds after they were delivered to the contractors,
regarding their validity or value, but they supposed if the
work were done it could and would be kept up under the sanction of the law which provided for it.
Upon the facts as detailed in the report the court held that
there was nothing in the general principles of implied contract
which would prevent the land owners from resisting the enforcement of the lien of the bonds upon the land.
In contrast with these facts it is seen that in the case at bar
the plaintiffs and other land owners have received full consideration for their promise, and have obtained precisely what
they asked for and in the manner they asked it. We have also
the written petition for the improvement, an active participation of the plaintiffs in carrying it out under the act, ithe frequent statements on their .part and upon the part of the other
land owners of the validity of the work and the regularity of
the assessment to be made under the terms of the act, and the
specific statement, made for the purpose of inducing the issuing
of the bonds and their purchase by the individuals who took
them, that practically the work had been done properly and
there was no defence to the bonds. This is equivalent to
saying the assessment to be laid as requested, under the act
of 1890, would be valid and no defence interposed to its collection. The differences of fact in the two cases show that
the O'Brien case furnishes no authority for the plaintiffs herein..
We concur in the remarks of the District Judge in this case,
when he said that: "The complainants invoked the action of
the county commissioners to enhance the value of their land;
they actively promoted the improvement, knowing that its

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

194 U. S.

cost must be paid by a front foot assessment on their property;
they recognized the justice of the assessment from time to
time during the progress of the work, and afterwards by paying annual installments of the assessment for seven years and
until they were tempted by the decision of the Supreme Court,
in Baker v. Norwood, to cast their burden upon the general
public, and it is now too late to complain of the method of the
assessment or of the lack of the special benefits which were
dissipated by the collapse of the 'boom.'
We do not consider the validity of the contention on the
part of the plaintiffs, that the act or the assessment in furtherance of its provisions violates in any particular the Federal
Constitution. For the reason given above we are of opinion
the judgment is right, and it is
Affirmed.

BURRELL v. MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 218.

Submitted April 13, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

A witness who voluntarily testifies cannot resist the effect of the testimony
by claiming that he could not have been compelled to give it. The time
to avail of a statutory protection is when the testimony is offered.
The provision in the bankruptcy act of July, 1898, requiring the bankrupt
to testify before the referee, but providing that no testimony then given
by him shall be offered iln evidence against him in any criminal proceeding, does not amount to exemption from prosecution, nor does it deprive
the evidence of its probative force after it has been admitted without
objection in a criminal prosecution against the bankrupt in a state court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. E. C. Day for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error submitted to the cross-examination in
the state court relative to his testimony before the referee in

