OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

THE IROQUOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR

THE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 200. Submitted March 18, 1904.-Decided May 2,194.

While a master is not bound in every instance where a seaman is seriously
injured to disregard every other consideration, and put into the nearest
port where medical assistance can be obtained, his duty to do so is Manifest, if the accident happens within a reasonable distance of such a port.
The duty 6f the master in each case depends upon its own circumstances,
and although the case may not be free from doubt this court will apply
its general rule both in equity and admiralty cases, not to reverse the

concvurring decisions of two subordinate courts upon questions of fact
unless there be a clear preponderance of evidence against their conclusion.

THIS was a libel filed in the District Court for the Northern
District of California by Matthew Bridges against the ship
Iroquois, to recover damages for a failure of the master to
provide suitable surgical treatment and care for the libellant,
who had suffered injury by a fall from the main yard to the
deck of the vessel.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows: The
Iroquois left New York on December 27, 1899, bound for the
port of San Francisco, with a full cargo of general merchandise.
On February 23, 1900, while the vessel was rounding Cape
Horn during heavy weather, and while libellant was aloft in
the performance of his duty, he accidentally fell from the main
yard to the deck of the vessel, thereby fracturing two ribs and
hisriAght, leg in two places. The master, with the aid of the
carpenter, set the leg in splints, kept the libellant in his berth,
gave him such food and delicacies as the supplies of the ship
permitted, and on March 30, after five weeks, removed the
splints, and found the leg apparently in good condition. Before arriving at San Francisco, and early in April, he was able
to leave his berth, go upon deck and walk about with the aid of

THE IROQUOIS.
194 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

a crutch. But after arriving at that port on May 7, 1900, he
was sent to the hospital, where it was found that, while his ribs
had healed perfectly, the bones of his leg had not united, and
he was subsequently, and in October, compelled to suffer
amputation, and, of course, became a cripple for the remainder
of his life. The master was charged with a breach of duty in
failing to put into an intermediate port and procure the proper
surgical attendance.
Upon this state of facts the District Court entered a decree'
in favor of the libellant for $3,000, 113 Fed. Rep. b64, which
was subsequently --affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 118
Fed. Rep. 1003.
Mr. Milton Andros for petitioners, cited The Osceola, 189
IT.S. 150, 175; The Scotland, 42 Fed. Rep. 925; Art. XIX, Laws
of Wisby; Reed v. Canfield, 1 Sum. 202 -The City of Alexandria,
17 Fed. Rep. 395; Peterson v. The Chandos, 4 Fed. Rep. 645,
distinguishing Brown v. Overton, 1 Sprague, 462; Danvir v.
Morse, 139 Massachusetts, 323; Olsen- v. Whitney, 47 C. C. A.
331.

Mr. A. H. Ricketts, Mr.--Walter G. Holmes and Mr. D. T.
Sullivan for respondent, cited Brown v. Overton, 1 Sprague, 462;
S. C., Fed. Cas. 2024; Scarf v. Metcalf, 107 N. Y. 211, 216;
Peterson v. The Chandos, 4 Fed. Rep. 645; Robertson v. Baldwin,
165 U. S. 287; Burgess v. Equitable Marine Ins. Co., 126 Massachusetts, 70, and cases cited on p. 80; Perkins v. Augusta Ins.
Co., 10 Gray, 312; Tomlinson v. Hewitt, 2 Sawyer, 278; The
Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175; The Troop, 118 Fed. Rep. 769;
Danvir v. Morse, 139 Massachusetts, 323.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The duty to provide proper medical treatment and attendance for seamen falling ill or suffering injury in the service of
the ship has.been imposed upon the shipowners by all maritime
VOL. CXCIV-16

OCTOLIER TERAI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

nations. It appears in the earliest codes of Continental Europe
and was expressly recognized by this court in the recent case of
The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158. Upon large pas'senger steamers a
physician or surgeon is always employed, whose duty it is to
minister to the passengers and crew in cases of sickness or
accident. Of course, this would be impracticable upon an
ordinary freighting vessel, where the master is presumed to
have some knowledge of the treatment of diseases, and in
ordinary cases stands in the place of a physician or surgeon,
The Wensleydale, 41 Fed. Rep. 602; but for the further protection of seamen, vessels of the class of the Iroquois are compelled by law to be provided with a chest of medicines and with
such anti-scorbutics, clothing and slop-chests as the climate,
particular trade and the length of the voyage may require.
Compiled Stat. sees. 4569, 4572, 4573.
What is the measure of the master's obligation in cases where
the seaman is severely injured while the ship is at sea has been
made'the subject of discussion in several cases; but each depends so largely upon its own particular facts that the rule laid
down in one may afford little or no aid in determining another,
depending upon a different state of facts. The early cases of
Hardenv. Gordon, 2 Mason, 541, and Re'ed v. Canfield, 1 Sumner,
195, contain an exhaustive' discussion of the general subject
by Mr. Justice Story. But, as in both cases the disability
occurred at or near a port, they are of no special value in this
case.
We have carefully examined the cases of Brown v. Overton,
1 Sprague, 462; Peterson v. The Chandos, 4 Fed. Rep. 645; The
Scotland, 42 Fed. Rep. 925; Whitney v. Olsen, 108 Fed. Rep
292; The Troop, 118 Fed. Rep. 769, and Danvir v. Morse, 139
Massachusetts, 323, and are of opinion that none of them fits
the exigencies of the present case. We cannot say that in
every instance where a serious accident occurs the master is
bound to disregard every other consideration and put into the
nearest port, though if the accident happen within a reasonable distance of such port, his duty to do so would be manifest.

TIlE IROQUOIS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Each case must depend upon its own circumstances, having
reference to the seriousness of the injury, the care that can be
given the sailor -on shipboard, the proximity of an intermediate
port, the consequences of delay to the interests of the shipowner, the direction of the wind and the probability of its
continuing in the same direction, and the fact whether a surgeon is likely to be found with competent skill to take charge
of the case. With reference to putting into port, all that can
be demanded of the master is the exercise of reasonable judgment and the ordinary acquaintance of a seaman with the
geography and resources of the country. He is not absolutely
bound to put into such port if the carg6 be such as would be
seriously injured by the delay. Even the claims of humanity
must be weighed in a balance with the loss that would probably
occur to the owners of the ship and cargo. A seafaring life is
a dangerous one, accidents of this kind are peculiarly liable tor
occur,, and the general principle of law that a person entering a
dangerous employment is regarded as assuming the ordinary
risks of such employment is peculiarly applicable to the case
of seamen.
To judge of the propriety of the master's conduct in a particular case we are bound so far as possible to put ourselves in his
place, and inquire whether, in view of all the circumstances, he
was bound to put into an intermediate port. The charge in the
libel is that he should either have put back to Port Stanley in
the East Falkland Islands, or deviated from his course and
made the port of Valparaiso, "or any .ono of several other ports
in the southern part of South America." The.very indefiniteness of this'charge shows that neither libellant nor counsel had
in mind any particular port, and it was not until the testimony
of a former officer of the Chilian navy was taken at San Francisco, that, they were able to fix upon the port of San Carlos
or the Evangelist Islands as proper places at which to make
call. In view of this inability to select a proper port until the
officer whose business it had been to cruise up and down the
Chilian coast had informed them, it may certainly be contended

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

with great show of reason tlaat the master was not bound to
know of the existence of these ports, except as he was informed
by the chart, or of the possibility of obtaining surgical treatment at them. While masters plying upon vessels between
New York and Pacific ports would be presumed to know of
such familiar harbors as those of Port Stanley and Valparaiso,
it by no mteans follows that they are chargeable with knowledge
of every port upon the southwest coast of South America, or
of their surgical facilities. The accident occurred utpon one of
the loneliest and most tempestuous seas in the world. For over
one thousand miles from Cape Horn to Valparaiso there seem
to have been but one or two places at which it would be feasible
to make a call. The evidence shows that the ship at the time
was about 480 miles from Port Stanley, and with the winds
then prevailing it-would have been possible to reach that port
in three or four days, but that to return to the place of the
accident in view of the head winds might have taken as many
weeks. During this time the owners of the ship would sustain
a heavy loss in the wages and provisions of the crew, and the
demurrage of the ship, and while the cargo is not shown to have
been perishable, there would be a risk of the loss of a market
by the consequent delay in reaching San Francisco. The master is not chargeable with fault in failing to put back to Port
Stanley.
It was also suggested that the ship could have made the
Evangelist Islands, at the western end of the Straits of Magellan, by sailing one or two days out of her course; but it was
shown that the only building there was a light-house, from
which a small steamer was accustomed to put out to passing
vessels in case a signal for relief was hoisted, and that nothing
could be done there, except possibly to place the seaman upon
a steamer bound north to Valparaiso or east to Sandy Point,
near the middle of the straits. The probability of obtaining,
aid by this course, and the certainty of the limb being injured
by the delay, would have made it highly inadvisable to adopt
it. As there is no harbor in the islands, the various transfers

THE IROQUOIS.
194 U. S.
-

Opinion of the Court.

from the ship to a boat and from the boat to shore, and the
return to another ship in the rough water that might be expected at that point, would have been extremely dangerous to
a person in libellant's crippled condition. The transfer of
passengers from a ship to a boat, even in a moderate sea, is
attended with considerable difficulty, and, to a person with a
broken leg, with great danger, in view of the unequal rising
and falling of a large ship and a small boat. Had the
master adopted this course and injury had resulted to the
libellant, he could hardly have escaped the imputation of
negligence.
The libellant contended in his brief that, assuming that the
master was not in fault for failing to stop at the Evangelist
Islands, he should have put in at the port of San Carlos or
Ancud, which lie near together, where it seems there is a good
harbor, a city of 15,000 or 20,000 inhabitants, and ample
surgical facilities. We are not impressed with the force of this
argument. These are not harbors at which vessels from the
Atlantic and Pacific ports are in the habit of stopping. While
the master was apprized by his charts of their existence, it
might well be that he was ignorant of the population and of the
accommodations for disabled seamen. There was no American
consul there, and quite possibly no one familiar with the
English language. To convict the captain of negligence for
not calling there it must be shown that he knew or should have
known that the libellant could obtain proper treatment. In
short, the suggestion of these ports appears to have been purely
an afterthought, inspired by the testimony of the Chilian
officer.
With respect to Valparaiso, the case is different. This port
appears to be about 1,500 miles from the place of the accident,
and, with favorable winds, could have been reached in 14 days.
It is true that the direct course from Cape Horn to San Francisco passes Valparaiso at a distance of about 600 miles; but
the testimony all shows that if the Iroquois had borne away
and hugged the South American coast she might have put into

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Valparaiso, left the libellant there, and resumed her course
without more than five or six days' detention. Valparaiso is
a large city, with ample hospital facilities, and with an American
consul general resident there.
We have no criticism to make of the treatment of libellant
immediately following the injury, except that we think he
should have been taken into the cabin, where he could have
been more comfortably provided for. His leg was put in splints
as well as the master and carpenter knew how to do it; he was
kept to his berth in the forecastle and was fed with such delicacies as the ship's supplies afforded. No fever set in, and
when the splints were taken off, about five weeks after the accident, and after the vessel had passed Valparaiso, the leg was
found to be in good condition, except for certain sores which
had broken out upon it, caused by the long confinement in
splints. It is true the libellant said the bones were not united,
but he does not seem to have complained of this to the master;
yet with a careful examination, such as the master was bound
to make, we think he should have detected it. It may be,
however, that the bones failed to unite by reason of the libellant
being allowed to go upon deck and walk about on crutches.
But however this may be, it was admitted that whenthe splints
were taken off the vessel was about as near San Francisco as
Valparaiso, and that nothing would have been gained by turning about at that time.
The-real question in the case is: whether the master, knowing
his ignorance of surgery, the serious nature of the libellant's
injury, the poor accommodations for him in the forecastle, the
liability of inflammation setting in, and of the bones not
uniting, the fact that he was to be carried through the tropics,
where to an invalid confined in the forecastle the heat would be
almost intolerable, he should not, 'even at the sacrifice of a
week, have put into Valparaiso and left the libellant there in
charge of the American consul. Upon the other hand: libellant
made no complaint of his treatment; did not ask to be taken
into an intermediate 'port, and, so-far as appears, the master.

THE IROQUOIS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

did not know that the wound was not healing properly. The
fact that the ribs had already united probably induced him to
believe that the leg had also healed, although a careful examination could not have failed to reveal the truth, We lay no
stress upon the fact that the libellant did not ask to be taken
into an intermediate port. He was a boy, largely ignorant of
his rights and duties. The master was his legal guardian in
the sense that it is a part of his-duty to look out for the safety
and care of his seamen, whether they make a distinct request
for it or not. If, on arriving at Valparaiso, the bones were
found not to have knitted together, there was at least a chance
of securing their union by proper treatment. If, upon the
other hand, they had united there was a certainty of securing
ultimate recovery by careful nursing, and by the use of facilities which the hospital undoubtedly would have, and which'
the ship undoubtedly had not. To put it in a light most
favorable to the master, he speculated upon the chance that
the union of the bones had taken place without seeking to
inform himself of the fact. The courts below held that
the master did not discharge, as he should have done, the
claim of humanity which the serious nature of the injury
and the helpless condition of the libellant impcsed upon
him.
Upon the whole, while the case is by no means free from
doubt, we are not disposed to disturb the decree of the court
below in holding it to have been the duty of the master to put
into an intermediate port, We regard the case as peculiarly
one for the application of the general rule so often announced
by this court, both in equity and admiralty cases, that this
court will not reverse the concurring decisions of two subordinate courts upon questions of fact, unless there be a clear
prepoaderance of evidence against their conclusions. The
S. B. Wheeler, 20 Wail. 385; The Lady Pike, 21 Wall. 1, 8; The
Richmond, 103 U. S. 540; Towson v. Moore, 173 U. S. 17; Smith
v. Burnett, 173 U. S. 430, 436.
As the decision of the District Court was unanimously af-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

194

U.

S.

firmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we do not think there
is any such preponderance of evidence as would justify us in
disturbing their conclusions. The decree is therefore
Affirmed.

ELDER v. HORSESHOE MINING AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 220. Submitted April 18, 1904.-Decided May 2,1904.

A notice to a cobwner, to contribute his share of' development work on a
mining claim, when rightfully published under ยง 2324 is effective in cutting off the claims of all parties and the title is thus kept clear and free
from uncertainty and doubt. Claims for more than one year may be
grouped in one notice.

It is not necessary for the notice to delinquent cobwners required by ยง 2324,
Rev. Stat., to specifically name the heirs of a deceased cobwner, but is
sufficient if addressed to such coowner, "his heirs, administrators and to

whom itmay concern," even though an administrator had not been appointed at the time.
A notice published every day except Sundays, commencing' Monday, January 7, and ending Monday, April 1, held to have been published once a
week for ninety days and to be sufficient under ยง 2324, Rev. Stat.

THE plaintiffs in error, being, the administrator, together
with the heirs at law of Rufus Wilsey, deceased, commenced
this suit in the state court of South Dakota against the defendants, and upon the trial the complaint was dismissed upon the
merits; that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State, and the plaintiffs have brought the case here. The
action was commenced to obtain a decree that defendants held
in trust for the plaintiffs in error an undivided one-half interest
in and to the land embraced in what is called in the complaint
the Golden Sand lode mining claim, the plaintiffs asked for a
decree that the defendants should convey to the plaintiff in

