OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

FIELD v. BARBER ASPHALT PAVING COMPANY.
BARBER ASPHALT PAVING COMPANY v. FIELD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN

PISTRICT

OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 201, 202. Argued April 11, 1904.--Decided May 31, 1904.
Where there are allegations of diverse citizenship in the bill, but the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is also invoked on constitutional grounds the
case is appealable directly to this court under § 5 of the act of March 3,
1891, as one involving the construction or application of the Constitution
of the United States, and where both parties have appealed the entire
case comes to this court, and the respondent's appeal does not have to
go to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is not'the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent the States
from classifying the subjects of legislation and making different regulations as to the property of different individuals differently situated., The
provision of the Federal Constitution is satisfied if all persons similarly
situated are treated alike in privileges conferred or liabilities imposed.
The -provision in § 5989, Rev. Stat. of Missouri, that certain improvements
are not to be made if a majority of resident owners of property liable to
taxation protest, is not unconstitttional because it gives the privilege
of protesting to them and not to non-resident owners.
Only such acts as directly interfere with the freedom of interstate com-,
merce are prohibited to the States by the constitution, and the Sherman Act of July 2, 1890, is not intended to affect contracts which have
only a remote and indirect bearing on commerce between the States.
The specification in an ordinance, not invalid under the laws of the State,
that a particular kind of asphalt produced only in a foreign country does
not violate any Federal right.
Although the agent of the company obtaining a paving contract may have
been active and influential in obtaining signatures to the petition, in the
absence of proof of fraud and corruption, the levies will not be set aside
after the improvement has been completed.
The necessity for an improvement of streets is a matter of which the proper
municipal authorities are the exclusive judges and their judgment is not
to be interfered with except in cases of fraud or gross abuse of power.

THESE cases are appeals from the decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Missouri.

FIELD v. BARBER ASPHALT CO.
194 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

Richard H. Field, as owner of certain lands abutting on Main
street, Baltimore avenue and Wyandotte street in Westport,
Missouri, which city was then a suburb, and has since become
a part, of Kansas City, filed a bill of complaint against the
paving company. The relief sought was against certain tax
bills, issued to pay for the paving of the above-named streets,
held by the defendant company, and to have the same declared void because (1) the act under which they were assessed
violated the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States; (2) that .the paving in question was unnecessary and the contract for the same was the result of
undue and illegal influence on the part of the agents of the
defendant company exercised upon the board of aldermen of
the city of Westport; (3) that the contracts for the paving
required the same to be constructed of Trinidad Lake asphalt,
thereby cutting off competition with other kinds of asphalt
suitable for street paving; (4) that the proceedings and agreements by which such asphalt was designated in the resolutions,
ordinances and rules for the construction of said pavements
were in violation of the interstate commerce clause of the
Constitution of the United States (Art. 1, sec. 8); and (5) that
the said resolutions, ordinances ap contracts tnd the action
of the defendant company in securing the same were in violation of the Federal Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890.
Upon the trial, the Circuit Court held against the prayer
of the complainant for relief upon the Federal grounds alleged,
but, holding that the paving of Wyandotte street. was unnecessary, granted the prayer of the bill as to the tax bills issued
for work done on that street, and dismissed the bill as to the
other two streets.
From so much of the decree as held the tax bills for the work
done on Wyandotte street invalid the paving company also
appealed. (Case No. 202.)
Mr. Richard H. Field, attorney in person, for appellant in
No. 201, and appellee in No. 202.

620 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Mr. William C. Scarritt, with whom Mr. John K. Griffith,
Mr. Elliott H. Jones and Mr. Edward L. Scarritt were on the
brief, for appellee in No. 201, and appellant in No. 202.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion was filed by the appellant to dismiss the appeal
of the paving company, which was postponed to thd hearing
of these appeals upon the merits. An examination of the
motion and a consideration of the briefs filed and arguments
made in support of and in opposition to the same leads us to
the conclusion that it cannot be sustained. The appellant
appealed dirctly to this court; for while there was an allegation of diverse citizenship in the bill, jurisdiction was also
invoked on the constitutional grounds above stated. This
made the case appealable directly to this court under section 5
-of the act of March 3, 1891, 1 Comp. Stat. U. S. 549, as one
which "involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States."
The contention is that the prayer of the
complainant on
the constitutional grounds having been denied, the appeal
of the respondent should have been to the Circuit Coqrt of
Appeals. But we cannot agree to this view. There w s no
cross bill filed in the case and none was required. The bill
of complaint contained allegations sufficient to make a case
of alleged violation of constitutional rights. It is well settled
that in such cases the entire case may be brought to this court
by the appeal. In Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S.81, 88, discussing the act of March, 1891, Mr. Justice Gray said:
"Upon such a writ of error, differing in these repects from
a writ of error to the highest court of a State, the jurisdiction
of this court does not depend upon the question whether the
right claimed under the Constitution of the United States has
been upheld or denied in the court below; and the jurisdiction
of this court is not limited to the constititional question, but

FIELD v. BARBER ASPHALT CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

includes the whole case.

Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S.

231, 238; Penn. Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685." Loeb v.
Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S.472. See-also Chappell
v. United States, 160 U. S. 499, 509; Horner v. United States,
No. 2, 143 U. S 570, 577.
If, therefore, the whole case can come to this court by direct
appeal under the allegations of this bill, and if all the questions, Federal or otherwise, may come up on such appeal, it
must follow that either party aggrieved by the decision may
appeal, and in this case the complainant appealing, a cross
appeal may be sued out by the defendant as to the matters
decided in the same case against him. If he fails to take such
appeal the correctness of the decision as against him will be
presumed. Mail Company v. Flanders, 12 Wall. 130; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, 196.
The motion to dismiss the cross appeal must be denied.
Coming to the merits of the case, the grounds of Federal
relief will first be considered. It is claimed that certain sections of the act of the general assembly of Missouri, which
make the tax bills levied to pay the contract price for the
paving a lien upon the complainant's real estate, deprive him
of his property without due process of law, and deny to him
the equal protection of the laws. This argument is predicated
on section 5989 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri.
The exact point of objection is that the improvement is
not to be made if a majority of the resident owners of the
property liable to taxation therefor shall file with the city
clerk a protest against such improvement, which privilege of
protest is not given to non-resident owners, thereby discriminating against them. It is well settled, however, that not
every discrimination of- this character violates constitutional
rights. It is not the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment,
as has been frequently held, to prevent the States from classifying the subjects of legislation and making different regulations
as to the property of different individuals differently situated.
The provision of the Federal Constitution is satisfied if all

ULL

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

persons similarly situated are treated alike in privileges conferred or liabilities imposed. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Gulf, Colorado
& Santa Fd Railroad v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150. The alleged discrimination is certainly not an arbitrary one; the presence
within the city of the resident property owners, their direct
interest in the subject matter and their ability to protest
promptly if the means employed are objectionable, place them
on a distinct footing from the non-residents whom it may be
difficult to reach. Furthermore, there is no discrimination
among property owners in taxing for the improvement. When
the assessment is made it operates upon all alike. It has been
held to be within the power of the legislature of Missouri to
authorize the council to order the improvement to be made
without consulting property owners. Buchan v. Broadwell, 88
Missouri, 31. If the legislature saw fit to give to those most
directly interested and whose consent could be most readily
obtained, the right to protest, such action did not deprive other
persons of rights guaranteed by the Constitution.
Further objection on Federal grounds is urged, in that the
specification of Trinidad Lake asphalt for this improvement
is in violation of the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the U .ited States, and of the so-called Sherman
Act of July, 1890. The right to provide for this paving was
vested by the Missouri statute in the board of aldermen. The
right to select the material for the paving was vested in that
body; they saw fit to choose Trinidad Lake asphalt for the
paving. Their right so to d0, under the charter powers of
such cities as Westport, notwithstanding competitive bidding
is thereby rendered impossible, has been sustained by the Supreme Court of Missouri. Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Hunt,
100 Missouri, 22; Warren v. PavingCo., 115 Missouri, 572; Verdin
v. St. Louis, 131 Missouri, 26. With the wisdom of this choice
the courts have nothing to do, and in this case we are only concernet to inquire as to the alleged violation of Federal rights

FIELD v. BARBER ASPHALT CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in such selection. The argument is that Trinidad Lake asphalt, being a product of a foreign country and brought into
Missouri, and there being other deposits in other States within
the United States from which suitable asphalt could be had,
the specification of this kind of asphalt is an interference with
and a regulation of interstate commerce, in violation of the
exclusive right of Congress conferred by the Constitution.
It is unnecessary to cite largely from cases in this court, which
hold that only such acts as directly interfere with the freedom
of interstate commerce are prohibited to the States, Kidd v.
Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, in which case, Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for the court, said (p. 23): "As has'been often said legislation [by a State] may in a great variety of ways affect
commerce and persons engaged in it, without constituting a
regulation of it within the meaning of the Constitution."
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, and cases
cited in the opinion. The right of a State in the exercise of the
police power to make regulations which indirectly affect interstate commerce has been frequently sustained. In the
present case it may be that the use of this kind of asphalt,
under municipal authority conferred by the State, will in a
lini ted degree affect interstate commerce, but it certainly is
not one .f those direct interferences with-the- power overand
express control of the subject given by the Constitution to
Congress. In this day of multiplied means of intercourse
between the States there is scarcely any contract which cannot
in a limited or remote degree be said to affect interstate commerce. But. it is only direct interferences with the freedom
of such commerce that bring the case within the exclusive
domain of Federal legislation.
The attempt to invoke the provisions of the Sherman Act
in this case is equally unavailing. That act has been recently
considered in the Northern Securities cases, decided at this

term, and its construction and the nature of the remedies
under it determined. It is not intended to affect contracts
which have a remote and indirect bearing upon commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

between the States. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578;
Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211.
In addition to the ground by which Federal jurisdiction
was established in the courts below, it is alleged that the tax
bills should be held void because they were obtained by undue
influence of the agents of the paving company, improperly
exercised to obtain the needed municipal action. The court
below held, and an examination of the 'testimony. has brought
us to the same conclusion, that there was nothing in the case
to establish the charges of fraud and corruption, although
the record does show that an agent of the defendant company
was active and perhaps influential in obtaining signatures to
the petition which specified Trinidad Lake asphalt for this improvement; yet in the absence of proof of fraud or corruption we
do not think the contract and resulting levies can be set aside
for this reason. It is one thing to disapprove of such measures
as a matter of propriety of action, but quite another to set
aside a contract, especially after the full performance 'of its
terms.
Upon the cross appeal, the learnedjudge in the court below
held that the Wyandotte street tax bills were void, because
that street had been previously paved with macadam in the
years 1892-1893, four or five years before the- asphalt paving
was laid, which macadam he found to be in good condition,
and but little worn. The effect of this decree was while finding
against complainant as to the allegations of fraud and collusion in obtaining the contract, to hold that, in the opinion of
the trial judge, the repaving of Wyandotte street was unnecessary. We think this conclusion overlooks the fact that the
power to construct, improve and pave streets was vested by
the law of Missouri, as it generally is, in the board of aldermen. (Laws of Missouri, 1895, 65, § 85 to § 95, inclusive.)
The necessity of such improvements is a matter of which they
are the exclusive judges, and their judgment is not to be
interfered with by the courts, except in cases of fraud or gross
abuse of power. This power of the city board is a continuing

•FIELD v. BARBER ASPHALT CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

one, and the mere fact that a pavement has been once laid
does not require the interference of the coarts when the governing body of the city, in the exercise of its judgment, has
determined that the necessity for repaving has arisen. The
law has vested this power in the representatives of the city
and the courts are not at liberty to determine whether the
judgment is exercised wisely or unwisely. If this were not so,
a contractor, who acts under the direction and because of the
action of the city authorities in determining the necessity of
an improvement, must lose his compensation, if, upon the suit
of a property owner, the courts shall take a different view of
the necessity of the improvement. In other words, the contractor, though acting in good faith and complying in all respects with his agreement,, lawfully made, must abide the
judgment of the courts as upon appeal from the tribunal
solely empowered by law to pass upon the necessity of the
improvement, and to make the necessary contracts to carry
it out.

As we have said, there may be cases of fraud or arbitrary
abuse of power, when the courts will intervene. Under other
circumstances the municipality and property owners interested are bound by. the acts of their agents. The authorities
amply sustain this view. 2 Dillon Mun. Corp. (4th ed.) § 686;
Wabash R. R. Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; Skinker v. Heman,
148 Missouri, 349; Warren v. Paving Co., 115 Missouri, 572, 580.
Applying the principles settled by the authorities to the
facts disclosed in this case, we do not find such evidence of
fraud or gross abuse of power as would warrant the setting
aside of the tax bills for this improvement. The testimony
tends to show that the macadam was considerably worn; its
replacement, to the extent of laying an asphalt pavement on
top of it, was deemed necessary by the city authorities. It
does not appear that any protest or objection was made during
the progress of the work. A majority of the resident owners
of lots abutting upon the part of the street to be improved had
petitioned for the asphalt pavement. There is considerable
VOL. cxciv-40

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

testimony tending to show that the value of abutting property
was enhanced by the improvement. These and kindred matters were before the board. It is not our province to review
their judgment, and we do not think the courts are authorized
to interfere with the discretion vested "inthem in making the
improvement under the circumstances shown
To hold otherwise would be, as vwe have said, to substitute the judgment of
the court as to the expediency or necessity of making such
improvement for that of the body delegated by law with the
.power and responsibility of action in the premises.
The court below, having properly held that the case alleged
must fail on the other grounds, should have regarded the
judgment of the board of aldermen as to the necessity of repaving Wyandotte street as conclusive upon it. The conclusion reached renders it unnecessary to consider whether
the complainant, having failed to protest or object to the
work before it was begun or during its progress, can be heard
in A court of equity to object to the tax bills assessed for the
benefit of the contractor after the work is completed in compliance with the contract.
We think the court below erred in adjudging the tax bills
on Wyandotte street to be void, and so much of the decree is
reversed with costs, the decree as to the other streets is affirmed,
and the case remanded to the court below with instructions to
dismiss the bill.

