OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

WEST v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 230. Argued April 5, 1904.-Decided May 2,1904.

The construction of the state constitution and statutes and the common law
on the subject of reading depositions of witnesses in criminal trials is not
a Federal question and this court is bound in such cases by the construction given thereto by the state court.
The Sixth Amendment dbes not apply to proceedings in a state court, nor is
there any specific provision in the Federal Constitution requiring defendant to be confronted with the witnesses against him in a criminal trial in
the state courts.
The reading in accordance with the law of the State on a criminal trial in a
state court, of a deposition taken before the committing magistrate, in the
presence of the accused, of a witness who had been cross-examined by the
counsel for accused and who was permanently absent from the State, does
not deprive the accused of his liberty without due process of law, and is
not violative of any provision in the Federal Constitution or any of the
Amendments thereto.
As to matters within its exclusive jurisdiction a State has the right to alter
the common law at any time, although it had theretofore adopted it with
certain limitations, and if through its courts it errs in deciding what the
common law is, yet if no fundamental right is deniel to an accused, and
no specific provision of the constitution is violated, he is not denied due
process of law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.

THE plaintiffs in error were proceeded against by information
and were convicted of larceny in the Criminal. District Court of
the Parish of Orleans, Louisiana, on April 4, 1902, and sentenced to three years' imprisonment, which conviction and
sentence were thereafter affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. 109 Louisiana, 603. They have brought the case
here b r wri4 of error.
On the trial the district attorney offered to read the testimony of one Thebaud, after having proved that he was permanently absent from the State and was a non-resident thereof,
and that his attendance could not be procured. It appeared
that the plaintiffs in error had been arrested and charged with
the crime for which they were then on trial, and had been
brought before the judge of the City Criminal Court, sitting as

WEST v. LOUISIANA.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

a committing magistrate, and upon the hearing before him, in
the presence of the plaintiffs in error and their counsel, the
witness Thebaud had been produced and examined orally, and
cross-examined by the counsel for plaintiffs in error. The
offer of the district attorney, after he had made this proof, to
read the testimony thus taken upon the preliminary examination, was objected to by counsel for plaintiffs in error on various
grounds, the material one now urged being that it was not
shown that the witness whose deposition was proposed to be
read was dead, insane or sick, nor that he was absent by the
procurement of the plaintiffs in error or their counsel, and it
was insisted that the reading of that testimony would be in
violation of the act of 1805, being now section 976 of the
Revised Statutes of Louisiana, and of article 9 of the bill of
rights and constitution of that State, and also would violate
the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of
the United States.
The act of 1805 reads as follows:
"All crimes, offences and misdemeanors shall be taken, intended and construed according to and in conformity with the
common law of England; and the forms of indictment (divested,
however, of unnecessary prolixity), the method of trial, the
rules of evidence and all other proceedings whatsoever in the
prosecution of crimes, offences and misdemeanors, changing
what ought to be changed, shall be according to the common
law, unless otherwise provided." Acts, 1805, p. 440, sec. 33.
Article 9 of the constitution of 1898 of the State of Louisiana
provides as follows:
"In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right
to a speedy public trial by an impartial jury: Provided, that
cases in which the penalty is not necessarily imprisonment at
hard labor or death shall be tried by the court without a jury,
or by a jury less than twelve in number, as provided elsewhere
in the constitution: Provided further, that'all trials shall take
place in the parish in which the offence was committed, unless
the venue be changed. The accused in every instance shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

194 IT. S.

have the right to be confronted with the witnesses against him;
he shall have the right to defend himself, to have the assistance
of counsel, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses
in his favor."
The evidence contained in the deposition was material. The
objections to the reading thereof were overruled, and the
counsel for plaintiffs in error duly excepted. The depositior
was then read in evidence.
Mr. Lionel Adaris, with whom Mr. Henry L. Lazarus and
Mr. Richard B. Otero were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Submitted by Mr. Walter Guion, Attorney General of the
State of Louisiana, Mr. F. C. Zacharie and Mr. Chandler C.
Luzenberg for defendant in error.
after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM,

The only question for this court to determine is whether the
admission of the deposition of Thebaud as evidence upon the
trial of this case deprived the plaintiffs in error of due process
of law, and therefore was a Violation of the Fourteenth Amendment upon the part of the State through its judicial department.
For many years the Supreme Court of Louisiana has held
that upon such facts as were proved in this case it was proper.
to admit a deposition as evidence upon the tria of the accised;
that in such circumstances he had been confronted with the
witnesses within the meaning of the cbnstitution and laws of
the State. Many cases were cited by the Supreme Court in the
opinion in this case as authority for the proposition it laid
down, and, after having cited them, the court, in its opinion,
continued:
"A reference to these various decisions will show that this
court has repeatedly permitted the introduction in evidence of
testimony of witnesses which had been taken down in writing
on a preliminary examination, when the presence of the wit-

WEST t, LOUISIANA.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nesses themselves a-t the trial could not be obtained. In the
case before us the witnesses whose written testimony was so
received were pernilaiently absent from the State the accused
were present at the examination and cross-examined'the witnesses. The jurisprudence of the Sate on the subject fully
warranted the action of tho District Court ki permitting the
testimony to be introduced."
Counsel for the plaintiffs in error in their brief used in this
court concede that ,be law of Louisiana, as stated in the above
extract from the opinion of the court in this case, "is absolutely
indisputable," but they nevertheless urge thatothe decisions are
founded in error and are in violation of the constitution and
mandatory statute, (Act of 1805; Rev. Stat. see. 976, supra,)
requiring that in the prosecution of crimes, among other things,
the rules of evidence shall be in accordasnce with the English
common law as it stood in 1805.
We are-now asked to review the decisions of the state court
as to what is the lw of that State regarding this question of
evidence, because as asserted the State has ever since 1805
made the common law, as it existed at that time, the rule as to
evidence on criminal trials, and it is coitended that the common
law did not permit this evidence under circumstances existing
in this case, and the state court in permitting the deposition
to be read not only violated the state law, but the Fourteenth
Amendment, by refusing to the plaintiffs in error due process
of law.
Whether the state court erred in its construction of the state
constitution and statutes and the common law on the subject
of reading depositions of witnesses, is not a Federal question.
We are bound by the construction which the state court gives
to its own constitution and statutes and to the law which may
obtain in the State, under circumstances such as those existing
herein. Among many of the cases to that effect see Brown v.
New Jersey, 175 U. S. 1-72.
As to the Federal Constitution, it will be observed that there
is no specific provision therein which makes it necessary in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

194 U. S.

state court that the defendant should be confronted with the
witnesses against him in criminal trials. The Sixth Amendment does not apply to proceedings in state courts. Spies v.
Illinois, 123 U..S. 131; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 174;
Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 586. The only question, therefore, is, as we have stated, whether the reading of the deposition
under the circumstances amounted to a violation by the State
of the Fourteenth Amendment, by depriving the plaintiffs in
error of their liberty without due process of law.
At common law, the right existed to read a deposition upon
the trial of the defendant, if such deposition had been taken
when the dbfendant was present and when the defendant's
counsel had had an opportunity to cross-examine, upon proof
being made to the satisfaction of the court that the witness
was at the time of the trial dead, insane, too ill ever to be expected to attend the trial, or kept away by the connivance of
the defendant. This much is conceded by counsel for plaintiffs in error, but they deny that the common law extended the
right to so read a deposition upon proof merely of non-residence,
permanent absence and inability to procure the evidence of the
witness upon the trial.
There is some contrariety among the authorities and textwriters whether under-the common law a deposition is admissible in such case. Assuming, however, that the state
court erroneously held what the common law was on the subject, we must, in order to reverse this judgment, go further, and
hold that a trial thus conducted and a deposition thus admitted
did not furnish due process of law to the accused; in other
words, that the refusal to exclude this deposition (an error
regarding the admissibility of evidence) took away from plaintiffs in error a right of such an important and fundamental
character as to deprive them of their liberty without due process of law.
The State of Louisiana had the right to alter the common
law at any time, although it had theretofore adopted it with
certain limitations. If, through its courts, it erred in deciding

WEST %. LOUISIANA.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

what the common law was, yet, if no fundamental and absolutely all-important right were thereby denied. to an accused,
he still had due process of law and could not cbmplain to this
court regarding the error, assuming, of course, that the decision
did not conflict with some specific provision of the Federal
Constitution.
As was said in Brown v. New Jersey, supra:
"The State is not tied down by any provision of the Federal
Constitution to the practic and procedure which existed at the
common law. Subject to the limitations heretofore named,
it may avail itself of the wisdom gathered by the experience 1f
the century to make such changes as may be necessary. For
instance, while at the common law an indictment by the grand
jury was an essential preliminary to trial for felony, it is within
the power of a State to abolish the grand jury entirely and
proceed by information."
The limit of the full control which the State has in the proceedings of its courts, both in civil and criminal cases, is subject only to the qualification that such procedure must not
work a denial of fundamental rights or conflict with specific
and applicable provisions of the Federal Constitution. Brown
v. New Jersey, "supra.
Coming to a decision of the .question before us, we are of
opinion that no Federal right of the plaintiffs in error was
violated by admitting this deposition' in evidence. Its admission was but a slight extension of the rule of the common
law, even as contended for by counsel. The extension is not
of such a fundamental character as to deprive the accused of
due process of law. It is neither so unreasonable nor improper
as to substantially affect the rights of an accused party or to
fundamentally impair those general rights which are secured
to him by the Fourteenth Amendment. The accused las, as
held by the state court in such case, been once confronted with
the witness and has had opportunity to cross-examine him,
and it seens reasonable that when the State cannot procure the,
attendance of the-witness at the trial, and'le is a non-resident

OCTOBER TER At, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

and is permanently beyond tile jurisdiction of the State, that
his deposition might be read equally as well as when his attendance could not be enforced because of death or of illness, or his
evidence given by reason of insanity.
We say this with reference to the question whether the admission of the deposition fails to give the accused "(due process
of law," as prvided for in the Fourteenth Amendment. As the
Sixth Amendment does not apply to the state courts, the question as to what is required under its provisions in order to
preserve the right to be confronted with the witness is eliminated from any inquiry by this court in this ease.
We have held, Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.516, that, the
words "due prodess of law," in the Four.teenth Amendment, do
not require an indictment by a grand jury in the prosecution by,
a State for murder.' We have also held, Maxwell v. Dow, 176
U. S.581, that the trial of a person in a state court, accused as
a criminal, by a jury of only eight persons instead of twelve,
and his subsequent conviction and imprisonment, did not deprive him of his liberty without due process of law. See also
Brown v. New Jersey, supra, as to a struck jury. In these
cases it was held that the several rights mentioned in them
were not those fundamental ones which were protected by the
Federal Constitution when presented for review under state
prosecutions.
The cases contain a somewhat full statement upon the subject
of what constitutes or fulfills the requirements of "due process
of law," so far as it relates, to questions of this nature, and it is
only necessary for us at this time to refer to those cases, without
renewing the discussion here. Within the principle there decided the plaintiffs in error were accorded due process of law.
It is true that the proceedings in the cases were under particular state statutes, while it is contended here that there are no
state statutes authorizing the rule as laid down by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana. But that court has held that the proceeding was justified, and the deposition admissible under the law
of that State. Whether the decision of the state court is made

WEST v. LOUISIANA.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the authority of a statute or on its own construction of
what the law of the State is, cannot in such case as this be a
material inquiry, because the sole question for this court is,
whether the Federal Constitution has been violated by the
decision of the state court. We think it has not.
The cases cited from this court are not in any degree incon-.
sistent with the views herein expressed, while some rather tend
to support them.
In Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, which was a
prosecution for bigamy in the Territory-of Utah under section 5352, Revised Statutes of the United States, it was held
that when there was some proof that an absent witness was
kept away by procurement of the defendant the burden of
proof was on him to show (having full opportunity therefor)
that he was not instrumental in concealing or keeping the witness away. If the defendant failed, he was in no condition to
assert his constitutional right to be confronted with the witness.
In Mattox v. United States, 156 U. S.237, the indictment was
for murder, and it was found in the United States District Court
of Kansas. It was held that the testimony of a former witness
of the government, once taken by a stenographer on a former
trial, and fully examined and cross-examined, was admissible
on a second trial on proof of the death of the witness.
In Murray v. Louisiana, 163 U. S.101, the state court, on
the trial of plaintiff in error for murder, permitted to be read
the evidence of a witness taken in the presence of the accused
at the preliminary hearing, read to and signed by the witness,
the prosecuting officer alleging that the witness was beyond the
jurisdiction of the court, and his attendance could not be procured. This court refused' to decide as to the admissibility of
the evidence, as the bill of exceptions did not show the substance of the evidence and that it was material.
In Kirby v. United States, 174 U. S.47, which was the case of
an indictment in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern Division of the District of South Dakota, it was held
that, admitting the judgment convicting the three persons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

stealing postage stamps under the circumstances stated in the
case, under the provisions of the act of Congress of March 3,
1875, chap. 144, section 2, that such judgment "shall be conelusive evidehce against said receiver, that the property of the
United States therein described has been embezzled, stolen or
purloined," was improper in .that the provision of the statute
violated the clause, of the Constitution of the United States
declaring that in all criminal prosecutions the accused should
be confronted with the witnesses against him, and the judgment was, therefore, reversed.
In Motes v. United States, 178 U. S. 458, Which.was an indictment under section 5508 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, it was held that the admission upon the trial of
written statements made by one Taylor -at the preliminary
examination was in violation of the rights of the accused under
the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
declaring that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
enjoy the right to be confronted with the witnesses against him.
It was so held because, as the court found, the absence of the
witness was manifestly due to the negligence of the officers of
the government. The witness was a witness for the prosecution and had been once committed to jail without bail, andhis
absence was, therefore, not within any recognized exceptions
to the general rule prescribed in the Constitution.
These are the cases to which our attention has been called,
and it is manifest there- is nothing in them opposed to our
judgment in this .case. They are all cases arising in the Federal courts, with one exception, Murray v. Louisiana, and in
that case the question was left untouched. In the other cases
they were sdbject to the provision of the Federal Constitution
assuring the accused the right to be confronted with the vitnesses against him. But in not one of those cases was it held
that, under facts such as were proved in this case, there would
have been a violation of the Constitution in admitting the deposition in evidence. All the cases admit some exceptions to
the general rule. What those exceptions may be is a question

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. MAY. 267
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

for the state courts, in prosecutions therein, under the rule as
already stated. The exception alleged in this case has not
been denied by this court heretofore.
We are unable to see that any applicable provision of the
Federal Constitution has been violated by the judgment in
this case, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MAY.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF BELL COUNTY, STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 185. Submitted March 17, 1904.-Decide4 May 2,1904.

The law of Texas, chap. 117, of 1901, directed solely against railroad companies and imposing a penalty for permitting Johnson grass or Russian
thistle to go to seed upon their right of way, is not shown so clearly to
deny the companies equal protection of the laws as to. be held contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment.

THE facts, which involved the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of chapter 117 of the Laws of
Texas of 1901, imposing a penalty on railroad companies
for permitting Johnson grass and Russian thistle to- go to
seed upon their rights of way, are stated in the opinion of the
court.

Mr. James Hagerman, Mr. T. S. Miller and Mr. J. M.
Bryson, for plaintiff in error:
The classifications of the act are arbitrary and violative of
fundamental conceptions of due process of law and its equal

