ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. r. MONTANA &c. CO. 235
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that a court of equity is competent to provide by its decree
that the discoverer of the lode, within the placer limits, shall
be secured in the temporary possession of so much of the ground
as will enable him to successfully work his lode, protecting at
the same time the rights of the placer locator. But such equitable adjustment of co-existing rights cannot be secured in a
simple adverse action and it would be, therefore, beyond the
limits of proper inquiry in this case to determine the rights
which may exist, if in the end the placer location be sustained
and a discovery of the lodes without forcible trespass and dispossession established.
But for the present, for the reasons above given, we think
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado was right, and
it is

Affined.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

dissent.

ST. LOUIS MINING AND MILLING COMPANY OP MONTANA v. MONTANA MINING COMPANY, LIMITED.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Submitted April 21, 1O4.-Decided May 2, 11.

The patent for a lode claim takes the sub-surface as well as the surface, and
there is no other right to disturb the sub-surface than that given by 1 2322,
Rev. Stat., to the owner of a vein apexing without its surface but descending on its dip into the sub-surface to pursue and develop that vein.

was a suit brought by the appellee (hereinafter called
the Montana Company) against the appellants (hereinafter
called the St. Louis Company) in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Montana, for an1injunction
restraining the further prosecution of a tunnel. The facts were
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

agreed upon, and are substantially that the Montana Company
was the owner and in possession of the Nine Hour lode mining
claim under a patent from the United States on a location
made under the mining acts of 1872 and acts amendatory
thereof; that the St. Louis Company was the owner of the
St. Louis lode mining claim, holding the same under a similar
title. In the St. Louis claim is a vein other than the discovery
vein, having its apex within the surface limits of the St. Louis
claim, but on its dip passing out of the Side line of the St. Louis
claim into the Nine Hour claim. The tunnel was two hundred
and sixty feet underground, running from the St. Louis- into
the Nine Hour claim and for the purpose of reaching the vein
on its descent through the latter. It was run horizontally
through country rock, and between the east line of the St.
Louis claim and the vein above referred to will not intersect
any other vein or lode. The St. Louis Company did not propose to extend the tunnel beyond the point at which it would
intersect the vein above referred to, and simply proposed to
use this cross-cut tunnel in working and mining said vein.
The Circuit Court, upon the facts agreed to, enjoined the
further prosecution of the tunnel. That injunction was sustained by the Circuit, Court of AppeaL9 for the Ninth Circuit,
113 Fed. Rep. 900; 51 C. C. A. 530, from whose decision the
St. Louis Company has brought the case to this court.
Mr. E.' W. Toole and Mr. Phomas C. Bach for appellants.
Mr.- W. E. Cullen for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The situation and the question can be easily presented to
the mind by considering the significant lines as lines of a rightangled triangle; the' vein descending on its dip being the hypothenuse, the tunnel the base line, and the boundary between
the two claims the side thie of the triangle. The St. Louis

ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. v. MONTANN
194 U.-S.

&c. CO. 237

Opinion of the Court.

Company, being the owner of the vein, may pursue and appropriate that vein on its course downward, although it extends
outside the vertical side lines of its claim and beneath the
surface of the Nine Hour lode claim. Such is the plain language of section 2322, Rev. Stat., which grants to locators
"The exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the
surface included within the lines of their locations, and of all
veins, lodes and ledges throughout their entire depth, the top
or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended
downward vertically, although such veins, lodes or le'dges may
so far depart from a. perpendicular in their course downward
as to extend outside the vertical side lines of such surface
locations."
In other words, it has a right -to the hypothenuse of the
triangle. May it also occupy and use the base line? Is it, in
pursuing and appropriating this vein, confined to work in or
upon the vein, or is it at liberty to enter upon and appropriate
other portions of the Nine Hour ground in order that it may
more conveniently reach and work the vein which it owns?
Its contention is. that the mining patent conveys title to only
the surface of the ground and the veins which go with the
claim, and that the balance of the underground territory
is open to any one seeking to explore for mineral, or at least
may be taken possession of by one other than the owner of the
claim for the purpose of conveniently working a vein which
belongs to him. The question may be stated in another form:
Does the patent for a lode claim take the sub-surface as well
as the surface, and is there any other right to disturb the subsurface than that given to the owner of a vein apexing without
its surface but descending on its dip into the sub-surface to
pursue and develop that vein?
We are of opinion that, the patent conveys the sub-surface
as well as the surface, and that, so far as this case discloses, the
only ]imitation on the exclusive title thus conveyed is the right
given to pursue a vein which on its dip enters the sub-surface.
By section 2319, Rev. Stat., "all valuable mineral deposits in

238"

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

lands belonging to the United States" are "open to exploration and purchase, and the lands in which they are found to
occupation and purchase." By section 2325 "-a patent for any
land claimed and located for valuable deposits may be obtained
in the following manner: Any, person . . . having claimed
and located a piece of land for such purposes . . . shall
thereupon be entitled to a patent for the land." In a subsequent part of the same section it is provided that the applicant'
shall pay five dollars per acre. Appellants rely upon the clause
heretofore quoted from section 2322 as a limitation upon the
full extent of the grant indicated by these provisions. But
this limitation operates only indirectly and by virtue of the
grant to another locator to pursue a vein apexing within his
surface boundaries on its dip downward through some side line
into the ground embraced within the patent. It withdraws
from the grant made by the patent only such veins as others
own and have a right to pursue. As said by Lindley (1 Lindley on Mines, 2d ed: ยง 71):
"In other words, under the old, law he located the lode.
Under the new, he must locate a piece of land containing the
top, or apex, of the lode. While the vein is still the principal
thing, in that it is for the-sake of the vein that the location is
made, the location must be 6f a piece of land including the top,
or apex of the vein."
And in vol. 2 (sec. 780):
"Priifna lacie, such a patent confers the right to everything
found within vertical planes drawn through the surface boundaries; but these boundaries may be invaded by an outsider lode
locator holding the apex of a vein under a regular valid location,
in the pursuit of his vein on its downward course underneath
the patented surface."
See also CalhounGold Mining Company v. Ajax Gold Mining
Company, 182 U. S. 499, 508. The decisions of the courts in
the mining regions are referred to in the opinion of the Court
of Appeals in this case, from which we quote:
"This view is in accord with the trend of all the decisions to
.

ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. v,. MONTANA &c. CO. 239
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which our attention has been directed. In Parrot Silver &
Copper Co. v. Heinze, 64 Pac. Rep. 326, the Supreme Court of
Montana held, in substance, that the owner of a mining claim
is prima facie the owner of a vein or lode found at a depth of
1,300 feet within the vertical planes of the lines of his own
claim, and that that presumption would prevail until it was
shown that the vein had its outcrop in the surface of some other
located claim in such a way as to give to the owners of the latter
the right to pursue it on its downward course. The court said:
'Upon a valid location of a definite portion of land is founded
the right of possession. The patent grants the fee, not to the
surface and ledge only, but to the land 6ontaining the apex of
the ledge. The right to follow the ledge u'pon its dip between
the vertical planes of the parallel end lines extending in their
own direction when it departs beyond the vertical planes of the
side lines, is an expansion of the rights which would be conferred by a common law grant.' Of similar import is State v.
District Court, (Mont.) 65 Pac Rep. 1020. In Doe v. Waterloo
Mining Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 935, Judge Ross said: 'Except as
modified by 'the statute, no reason is perceived why one who
acquires the ownership or possession of such lands should not
hold them with and subject to the incidents of ownership and
possession at common law.' In Consolidated Wyoming G. M.
Co. v. Champion Min. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 540, Judge Hawley
said: 'Hands off of any and everything within my surface lines
extending vertically downward, until you prove that you are
working upon and following a vein which has its apex within
your surface: claim.' "
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

