MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. MAY. 267
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

for the state courts, in prosecutions therein, under the rule as
already stated. The exception alleged in this case has not
been denied by this court heretofore.
We are unable to see that any applicable provision of the
Federal Constitution has been violated by the judgment in
this case, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MAY.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF BELL COUNTY, STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 185. Submitted March 17, 1904.-Decide4 May 2,1904.

The law of Texas, chap. 117, of 1901, directed solely against railroad companies and imposing a penalty for permitting Johnson grass or Russian
thistle to go to seed upon their right of way, is not shown so clearly to
deny the companies equal protection of the laws as to. be held contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment.

THE facts, which involved the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of chapter 117 of the Laws of
Texas of 1901, imposing a penalty on railroad companies
for permitting Johnson grass and Russian thistle to- go to
seed upon their rights of way, are stated in the opinion of the
court.

Mr. James Hagerman, Mr. T. S. Miller and Mr. J. M.
Bryson, for plaintiff in error:
The classifications of the act are arbitrary and violative of
fundamental conceptions of due process of law and its equal

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

protection. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, 368, 373; Dent. v. West Virginia, 129
U. S. 114, 124; Gulf, C. & Santa Fd v.Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 153,
165; Atch. Top. & S. F. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 104; Cotting
v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79, 111; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Fraserv..McConway, 82
Fed. Rep. 257, 260; State v. Waters-Pierce Oil Co., 67 S. W.
Rep. (Tex.) 1057; North Carolina v. Tenant, 15 L. R. A. 423;
Luman'v. Hitchins Bros. Co., 46 L. R. A. 393; Ex parteJentzsch,
32 L. R. A. 664; Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy, 2 Yerg. 554; Holden v. James, 11 Massachuaetts, 396; Cooley on Const. Law
(7th ed.), 559.
There are no reasons which justify the classification of ยง 2 of
the act. There is no connection between permitting Johnson
grass or Russian thistle to mature on the right of way of a
railroad company and. operating, cars and locomotives along
the same in respect to the.object to be accomplished, nor can
the distribution be sustained upon any theory that incentives
exist in one case to prevent the grass and thistles from maturing and none in the other. Ft. WI. & D! C. Ry. Co. v. Hogsett,
67 Texas, 685, and cases cited on p. 688; T. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Ross, 7 Tex. Civ. App. 653; St. L. S. W. Ry.Co. v. Knight, 41
S. W. Rep. 416.
Unless there is some reason' for distingui hing a _class from
the public an act affecting.such class only is open to the charge
of being partial and discriminating. L~andon v. Steele, 152
U. S: 135; Atch. T. & S. F. v. Clark, 58 Pac. Rep. 477; Pasadena
v. Simpson, 91 California, 2.38; S.C., 27 Pac. Rap. 604. Where
statutes affecting a class -have been -upheld it is because of
special reasons distinguishing the class. Hart v.Railroad Co.,.
13 Metc. 99; Missouri Pacific v. Mackey9 127 U. S. 205, 210.
There was no appearance or brief for defendant in error.

MR. JusTIcE, HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a action to recover a penalty of twenty-five dollars,

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. MAY. 269
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

brought by the owner of a tarm contiguous to the railroad of
the plaintiff in error, on the ground that the latter has allowed
Johnson grass to mature and go to seed upon its road. The
penalty is given t6 contiguous owners by a Texas statute of
1901, ch. 117, directed solely against railroad companies for
permitting such grass or Russian thistle to go to seed upon
their right of way, subject, however, to the condition that the
plaintiff has not done the same thing. The case is brought
here on the ground that the statute is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
It is admitted that Johnson grass is a menace to crops, that
it is propagated only by seed, and that a general regulation of
it for the protection of farming would be valid. It is admitted
also that legislation may be directed against a class when any
fair ground for the discrimination exists. But it is saidthat
this particular subjection of railroad companies to a liability
not imposed on other owners of land on which Johnson grass
may grow, is so arbitrary as to amount to a denial of the equal
protection of the laws. There is no dispute about general
principles. The question is whether this case lies on one side
or the other of a line which has to be worked out between cases.
differing only in degree. With regard to the manner in wlich
such a question.should be approached, it is obvious that the
legislature is the only judge of the policy of a proposed discrimination. The principle is similar to that which is established with regard to a decision of Congress 'that certain means
are necessary and proper to carry out one of its express powers.
McCulloch v.:
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. When a state legislature has (leclaredl that in its opinion policy requires a certain
measure, its action should not be disturbed by the courts
under the Fourteenth Amendment, unless they can see clearly
that there is no fair reason for. the law that would not require
with equal force its extension to others whom it leaves untouched.
Approaching the question in this way we feel unable to say
that the law before us may not have been justified by local

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
MR.JuSTIcE BROWN, dissenting.

conditions.

194 U. S.

It would have been more obviously fair to extend

the regulation at least to highways. But it may have been
found, for all that we know, that the seed of Johnson grass is
dropped from the cars in such quantities as to cause special
trouble. It may be that the neglected strips occupied by
railroads afford a ground where noxious weeds especially
flourish, and that whereas self-interest leads the owners of
farms to keep down pests, the railroad companies have done
nothing in a matter which concerns their neighbors only.
Other reasons may be imagined. Great constitutional provisions must be administered with caution. Some play must be
allowed for the joints of the machine, and it must be remembered that legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties
and welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as the
courts.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

MR.JUSTICE BROWN,

concurs in the judgment.
dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court in this case.
Whiile fully conceding that the legislature is the only judge of
the policy of a proposed discrimination, it is not the only judge
of its legality. Doubtless great weight will be given to its
judgment in that regard, and the legislation will not be held
invalid, if it be founded upon a real distinction in principle
between persons or corporations of the same class. Upon this
principle spark arresters may be required upon locomotives
when they are not required upon other smokestacks, because
of their greater liability to communicate fires to adjoining
property; so, although other proprietors are not bound to fence
their lands, railway companies may be required to do so to
prevent the straying of cattle upon their tracks. Upon the
same principle gates and guards may be required at railway
crossings when the same would be entirely unnecessary at the
crossing of ordinary highways. Other discriminating regula-

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. MAY.
194 U. S.

271

Dissent of JUSTICES WHITE and McKENr.

tions made necessary by the peculiar business and danger
incident to railway transportation may be readily imagined.
In this case, however, the railway is not pursued.as such, but
merely as the proprietor of certain land alongside its track, and
no reason can be conjectured why an obnoxious form of weed,
growing upon its land, should be more detrimental than the
same weed growing upon adjoining lands. The railway is not
made the sole .object of the statutory prohibition by reason of
the fact that it is a railway, and the discrimination against
it seems to be purely arbitrary. The only atistinction suggested in support of the, ordinance is that the seed of Johnson
grass may be dropped from the cars in such quantities as to
cause special trouble; but there is not only no evidence of such
fact, but is is highly improbable that the seed of a noxious
grass of this kind would be carried upon the cars at all. It is
also suggested that the self-interest of owners of farms to keep
down pests of this kind might be relied upon to prevent their
growth. But this tends merely to show that if the law were
made general, it would be more readily obeyed by private land
proprietors than by the railway. It may be that railways.are
less given to the observance of precautions required of them as
neighborhood landowners than the proprietors of individual
property, but that does not create a distinction in principle.
It merely tends to show that if the law were made general the
railway companies would be oftener prosecuted than other
proprietors. If Johnson grass growing upon railway tracks
be a nuisance, it is equally so when growing upon the other
side of the line fence, and I think the law should be made general to avoid the charge of an arbitrary discrimination. If the
land owned by every corporation were held to this liability,
while the land of individuals were exempt, the discrimination
would be more conspicuously unjust in its appearance, but
scarcely more so in its reality.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA also dissented.

