KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN CO.
194 U. S.

141

Statement of the Case.

was not sought on the single ground of want of safe appliances.
That was important in its connection with Carson's being
ordered to go between the cars, and it was negligence while he
was obeying that order, which was chiefly relied on. At all
events, the company did not specifically set up or claim any
right under the act of Congress or dependent on its construction which was denied by the state courts, and the question
raised on these instructions and numerous others on various
aspects of the case were not Federal questions, and need not
be considered.
Judgment affirmed.

KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 357.

Submitted March 21, 1904.-Decided April 25, 1904,

The general rule is that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United
Stat~s has once attached it will not be ousted by subsequent change in the
conditions.
A Circuit Court may proceed to judgment on a cross bill where defendant's
pecuniary claim is less than $2,000, if the jurisdictional amount in dispute appears from bill, answer and cross bill which relate to the same,
transaction, notwithstanding the original bill has been voluntarily dismissed.

KIRBY filed his first original amended petition in the District
Court of Dallas County, Texas, against the American Soda
Fountain Company, averring that he was induced by false
representations by defendant to agree to exchange his soda
fountain apparatus for the soda fountain apparatus of defendant and pay defendant $2,025 in addition, and signed a
memorandum in relation thereto, which, however,- plaintiff
alleged did not contain all the terms of the contract; that the
exchange was made, but defendant's soda fountain apparatus,
instead of being superior in value by $2,025, was, as matter of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

fact, less by $2,500; and plaintiff prayed for the cancellation
of the obligation to pay $2,025, for $2,500 damages, and for
general relief. The original petition sought damages merely,
and in the sum of $1,500.
On application of defendant the cause was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Texas.
The case was entered in that court May 12, 1902, and on
that day defendant filed its answer, denying all charges of
fraud, and setting up the written contract between plaintiff
and itself, which it alleged contained all the terms of the agreement between them, whereby defendant agreed to manufacture
and ship to plaintiff and plaintiff purchased of defendant a
certain soda fountain machine at the price of $3,219; and
defendant agreed to take plaintiff's machine in part payment
at the sum of $1,194, leaving a balance of $2,025, which plaintiff agreed to pay, and which was secured by a mortgage lien
on the property. That defendant manufactured and shipped
the machine to plaintiff and set it up in his store, and fully
complied with the contract, but plaintiff, after paying $325
on account of the $2,025, failed and refused to further comply
with the contract or to pay anything more thereon.
Defendant said plaintiff ought to take nothing by his suit,
and prayed judgment for the sum of $1,700 and for foreclosure
of its mortgage lien. Together with its answer defendant filed
its cross complaint, setting up the facts in detail and praying
for judgment in the sum of $1,700, and interest, and for a decree
establishing its mortgage lien on the property and for foreclosure and sale, and such further relief as equity might require.
Subpcena. on the cross complaint was issued and served
May 13, 1902.
June 20, 1902, plaintiff moved to transfer the cause to the
law docket; and on that date the following order was entered
Complainant coming and asking that the original
of record :-"
bill of complaint be dismissed without prejudice, and it ap-

KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN CO.
191 U. S.

143

Counsel for Appellee.

pearing to the court that said request should be granted. It
is therefore ordered that the or~iginal bill of complaint herein
be and the same is hereby dismissed without prejudice to the
right of the plaintiff to proceed further on the cause of actibn
set forth in said bill hereafter as he may be advised. It is
further ordered that the costs of the original bill and proceedings thereon herein be adjudged against complainant for which
execution may issue."
July 24, 1902, plaintiff, as defendant in the cross complaint,
filed his plea thereto, in which he averred that the-original bill
filed by him had been dismissed, and that the cross bill was
not within the jurisdiction of the court because the amount
sought to be recovered did not exceed two thousand dollars,
exclusive of interest and costs. February 13, 1903, the plea
to the jurisdiction of the court was argued and overruled, and
plaintiff, defendant in the cross bill, was ordered to file an
answer to said cross hill on or before the rule day of the court
occurring in April, 1903. No further answer or plea to the
cross bill having been interposed by the defendant therein, a
decree pro conjesso was rendered against him April 21.
On May 27, 1903, the court rendered a decree on the cross
bill, which recited the various proceedings; found the allegations of the cross complaint and exhibits to be true; that Kirby
was justly indebted to the American Soda Fountain Company
in the sum of $1,700, with interest, and that a valid mortgage
lien to secure that sum existed; and decreed payment of the
amount within sixty days, and that, if not paid, the property
should be sold and the proceeds applied, with judgment for
deficiency, if any.
An appeal from this decree was prayed and allowed, and the
question of jurisdiction was certified. The case came on in
this court on motions to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. J. M. McCormick for appellant.
Mr. John J. Weed for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opiniorf of the court.

This case was brought directly to this court on a certificate
of jurisdiction under section five of the judiciary act of March 3,
1891, and might, therefore, have been advanced under Rule 32.
The motions to dismiss or affirm may be treated as equivalent
to submission under that rule, but as the motions were made,
and the motion to dismiss was chiefly rested on the ground
that the value of the matter in dispute was not sufficient to
give this court jurisdiction, we think it proper to say that" the'
act of 1891 nowhere imposes .a pecuniary limit upon the appellate jurisdiction, either of this court or of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, from a District or Circuit Court of the United
States." The Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 683.
On this appeal no question of error in matter of equity
procedure in the retaining of the cross bill after the dismissal
of the bill is open for consideration, but we do not intimate in
the slightest degree that any error in that particular was committed. Chicago, M. & St. P, Railway Company v. Third
National Bank, 134 U. S. 276; Daniell Ch. Pr. (5th ed.) 1553,
note; Bates Eq. Proc. ยง 386.
The contention is that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
as a court of the United States to proceed on the cross bill
because of the lack of the prescribed jurisdictional amount.
But we think the Circuit Court was right in rejecting this contention and in overruling the plea.
In the first place, the whole record being considered, the
value of the inatter in dispute might well have been held to
exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs.
Stinson v. Dousman, 20 How. 461, 466; New England Mortgage
Company v. Gay, 145 U. S. 123, 131; Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192
U. S. 232; Lovell v. Cragin, 136 U. S. 130.
In Stinson v. Dousman the suit was brought to recover
something less than five hundred dollars as rent of a parcel
of land under a written contract for the purchase of the land

KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN CO.194 U. S.

A4

Opinion of the Court.

at eight thousand dollars, which provided that the covenantee
should pay rent on failure to comply with sundry conditions
prescribed, and defendant not only set up in his answer a defence to the claim for rent, but also sought a decree affirming
the contract as outstanding. It was objected in this court
that the matter in dispute was not of the value of one thousand
dollars, and 'that therefore there was no jurisdiction. Mr.
Justice Campbell said: "The objection might be well founded,
if this was to be regarded merely as an action at common law.
But the equitable as well as the legal considerations involved
in the cause are to be considered. The effect of the 'judgment
is to adjust the legal and equitable claitns of the parties to the
subject of the suit. The subject of the suit is not merely the
amount of rent claimed, but the title of the respective parties
to the land under the contract. The contract shows that the
matter in dispute was valued by the arides at $8,( (0, We
think this court has jurisdiction," 'The case is r'-o:ei 'aLd
considered in New England l ortgagc Company v. Gay an6 in
Shappiriov. Goldberg.

In Lovell v. Cragin it was held as correctly stafed in the
headnotes: " W hen the matter set up in a cross bill is directly

responsive to the averments in the bill, and is directly connected with the transactions which are set, up in the bill as the
gravamen of the plaintiff's ease, the anount claimed in the
cross bill may be taken into consideratiol in determining the
jurisdiction of. this court on appaeal from a decree on the bill,"
In the present case the Circuit Court ii its decree referred to
the plaintiff's bill and the relief thereby ;ought, in connection
with the cross bill, and, we thinky was justified in doing this as
the record had not passed from under its control, aad it wa.
apparent that the decree on the cross bill disposed of the contention of plaintiff in respect of the cancellation of the contract. Taking the bill, defendant's answer and the cross bill
together, the jurisdictional amount was made out.
In the second place, it is the general rule that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States has once attached
voL cxcIv-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

it will not be ousted by subsequent change in the conditions.
Morgan v. Morgan, 2 Wheat. 290; Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Pet.
164; Kanouse v. Martin, 15 How. 198, 208; Roberts v. Nelson,
8 Blatchf. 74; Cooke v. United States, 2 Wall. 218.
In Morgan v. Morgan it was laid down by Chief Justice
Marshall that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court having once
vested between citizens of different States, could not be divested
by a change of domicil of one of the parties, and his removal
into the same State as the adverse party pendente lite. This
was so ruled in Clarke v. Mathewson and other cases there cited.
In Kanouse v. Martin, after petition to remove had been
filed and bond tendered, the state court allowed the plaintiff
to reduce the matter in dispute to less than the jurisdictional
amount, and went on with the case. This was necessarily held
to be erroneous, but the observations of Mr. Justice Curtis
show that, in his opinion, the general rule to which we have
referred also applied, and he cites Morgan v. Morgan and
Clarke v. Mathewson.
In Roberts v. Nelson the amount claimed was reduced after
the case had been removed, and Mr. Justice Blatchford, then
District Judge, held that the jurisdiction of the court having
once attached, no subsequent event could divest it.
In Cooke v. United States Mr. Chief Justice Chase said that
"jurisdiction once acquired, cannot be taken away by any
change in the value of the subject of controversy."
This action, when brought in the state court, was an action
to recover $1,500 damages for deceit. Defendant demurred
to and answered the original petition. Plaintiff subsequently
filed his amended petition seeking to be relieved of the obligation to pay $2,025, and damages in the sum of $2,500. The
matter in dispute having thus been made to exceed the sum
or value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs,
defendant presented his petition and bond for removal, and
the cause was thereupon removed. The jurisdiction thus acquired by the Circuit Court was not divested by plaintiff's
subsequent action.
Decree affirmed.

