OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

an ordinance reducing the cash fare to be charged by the complainant on the portion of its line affected by the ordinance of
1879 to four cents, and required seven tickets to be sold for
twenty-five cents. The validity of this ordinance was assailed
by the bill filed in this cause, and similar contentions were
urged against its constitutionality as are contained in the bill
filed in the suit brought by the Cleveland Railway Company.
Like jurisdictional objections were also interposed in this case
by the city of Cleveland as were raised in the other case.
The Circuit Court granted a motion for judgment upon the
pleadings and decreed that the ordinance of '1898 was void
because it impaired the obligations of prior contracts. 94
Fed. Rep. 385. The principles applied in the case of the Cleveland City Railway Company, just decided, govern this case,
and, as a result, the decree of the Circuit Court must be and
it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this

cause.

DIMMICK v. TOMPKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 528. Submitted May 16,1904.-Decided May 31,1904.
An appeal directly to this court from the Circuit Court denying a writ of
habeas corpus is proper where the petition contains averments that the
imprisonment is in violation of the Federal Constitution.
A sentence at hard labor in the state prison does not commence until the
person sentenced is taken to the prison, and if by his own efforts to obtain
a review and reversal of the judgment he secures a supersedeas pending

appeal his detention meanwhile in the county jail cannot be counted as
a part of the time of imprisonment in the state prison.
Although for some purposes different counts- in an indictment may be regarded as in effect separte indictments, where there is nothing to show

DIMMICK v. TOMPKINS.
194 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

that the court was without jurisdiction to impose a sentence of two years
for the crime of which the defendant was convicted, this court will not
presume that the sentence was for not exceeding on3 year on each of the
two counts on which he was convicted, thus making the sentences in the
state prison at hard labor illegal under Rev. Stat. §§ 5541, 5546, 5547.
In re Mills, 135 U. S: 263, distinguished.
A writ of habeas corpus to release the petitioner from imprisonment cannot
be made to do the office of a writ of error and this court will not on such
a proceeding review errors of law on the part of the trial court.
This court may take judicial notice of its own records in proceedings formerly had by the parties to proceedings before it.
DIMMICK, the appellant, presented his petition for a writ
of habeas corpus to the Circuit Court of the United States,
Northern District of California. The petition was denied and
an appeal taken to this court from the order denying the application. The appellant alleged in his petition for the writ that
-he was unlawfully imprisoned in the state prison of the State
of California; that the imprisonment was illegal and in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, Article Five
of the amendments to the same; that on October 16, 1901, he
was sentenced to. imprisonment in the state prisori by the
District Court of the United States in and for the Northern
District of California for the period of two years, to date from
October 16, 1901; that he had been imprisoned, under the
judgment, in the state prison ever since April 13, 1903, and
that prior thereto, and from the date of the judgment to
April 13, 1903, he was imprisoned, under said judgment, in the
county jail of Alameda county by order of the District Court.
The appellant also alleged that, notwithstanding the foregoing facts, the warden refused to discharge or release him
from imprisonment, although the term of said imprisonment
expired, according to its terms, on October 16, 1903. The
appellant then set forth in the petition a copy of the record
of the proceedings of the District Court of the Unitcd States,
which showed that he was convicted in the District Court on
the 16th of October, 101, of making and presenting a false
claim, as charged in the first count of the indictment, and of
using a portion of the public moneys of the United States for

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

a purpose not prescribed by law, as charged in the fourth
count; and that he was sentenced "to be imprisoned at hard
labor for the term of'two years from October 16, 1901; and
it is further ordered that said sentence of imprisonment be
executed upon the said Walter N. Dimmick by imprisonment
in the state prison of the State of California, at San Quentin,
Marin County, California." The record was signed by the district judge who held the court.
The petition also set forth a copy of the indictment under
which the trial was had. It was founded upon sections 5438
and 5497 of the United States Revised Statutes, and charged
in substance the presentation to the cashier of the mint at
San Francisco of a certain false, fictitious and fraudulent
claim against the United States and known to be fraudulent
by the defendant at the time he presented it; also, with having unlawfully used a portion of the public moneys for a purpose
not prescribed by law. The appellant averred that neither
the first nor the fourth count charged any crime or public
offense against the United States nor the violation of any law
of the United States, and that both counts were fatally defective. The appellant also averred that the judgment of the
court, in as far as it required his imprisonment in the state
prison, was void, because the United States District Court
sentenced him for onn year, and no more, upon each of the
two counts of the indictment referred to in the judgment, and
did not sentence him to imprisonment for a period of more
than one year upon each of said counts, and that a sentence
to the state prison for a period of not more than one year
violated the statutes-of the United States.
Mr. George D. Collins for appellant:
The imprisonment was 'for two years from a date specified
and must expire two years therefrom. A court can fix the
date of commencement of the sentence. Ex parte Gibson, 31
California, 627; Woodward v. Murdoclo, 124 Indiana, 439;
State v. Gaskins, 65 N. Car. 320; Kelly v. State, 3 Sm. & Mar.

DIMMICK
194 U. S.

'.

TOMPKINS.

Argument for Appellant.

518. Under some circumstances the term might end before the imprisonment begins. Johnson v. People, 83 Illinois,
431, 437. The judgment cannot be changed after partial
execution. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 173. The day on
which a prisoner is sentenced will be reckoned as a part of the
term. Bishop on Stat. Crimes, § 218; Commonwealth v. Keniston, 5 Pick. 420.
The sentence has been fully satisfied. The puriod of confinement in the county jail must be counted. Bishop, supra;
People v. Lincoln, 62 How. Pr. 412. The conviction in this
case was for a misdemeanor. Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 422;
Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 350; Bannon v. United
States, 156 U. S. 466; Regan v. United States, 157 U. S. 303.
As to law of California, see Ex parte Ah Cha, 40 California,
426, and see §§ 5438, 5497, Rev. Stat.
The sentence is void because it directs imprisonment in the
penitentiary for a period not exceeding one year on each
count. Ex parte Mills, 135 U. S. 270. Each count is in law
a separate indictment. Selvester v. United States, 170 U. S.
262, 266. The sentence as rendered is an entirety. If.void
in part it is void in toto and if imprisoned for what is not a
crime against the United States he is entitled to his discharge
on habeas corpus. Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 376; Ex parte
Hollis, 55 California, 407; Ex parte Corryell, 22 California, 181.
The first count contains mere epithets which signify nothing.
Van Well v. Winston, 115 U. S. 237. The mere fact that a
paid claim was presented for repayment is not a crime. The
statute requires a fraudulent claim to be presented.
The statute can have sufficient scope and operation if it is
confined to claims that have never been real or genuine; and
it is the duty of the courts to give it that contruction in favor
of liberty. United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 396. There can
be no constructive offenses, and the case must be unmistakably
within the statute. United States v. Lacher, 134 U. . 628;
United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 288. Statutes creating and
defining crimes cannot be extended by intendment, and no

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. 3.

act, however wrongful, can be punished under such a statute
unless clearly within its terms. Todd v. United States, 158
U. S. 282; France v. United States, 164 U. S. 676, 682.
The fourth count of the indictment also fails to charge any
offense that is made a crime oby any law of the United States.
Section 5497, Rev. Stat., applies only to bankers, brokers, or
directors, or
other persons and to presidents, cashiers, tellers,
other officers of any bank or banking association. This statute
was amended by act of February 3, 1879, chap. 42, and by the
amendment extended to officers and their assistants in the
internal revenue service, 20 Stat. 280, thus indicating that
the words "or other person" as used in the main section only
relate to -persons of the same general class as bankers and
brokers. If all persons were meant, there was no need of the
specific. enumeration. Bishop on Stat; Crimes (3d ed.), § 245;
Sutherland on Stat. Constr. § 272.
The prisoner was a clerk in the mint and not- within the
provisions of § 5497.
,Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt for appellee:
The petition shows on its face that Dimmick has not served
his sentence. The allegation that prior to April 13, 1903, and
from the date of the sentence, October 16, 1901, Dimmick
was -confined in the county jail "under said judgment" is
inconsistent with the judgment, which was for imprisonment
in the state prison for two years at hard labor in the state
prison. The time from which the sentence was to commence
was directory merely. Ex parte Bell, 56 Mississippi, 282; Ex
parte Duckett, 15 S. Car. 210.
The general rule is that the time when the imprisonment
is to begin or ehd need not be and, according to the better
practice, is not specified in the sentence, it being sufficient to
state its duration merely. Bish. New Crim. Proc. sec. 1310,
par. 3; 25 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), p. 303, and cases
cited in note.
The rule as to the place of imprisonment is different. Ac-

DIMMICK
194 U. S.

.

TOMPKINS.

Argument for Appellee.

cording to the prevailing practice, when the sentence is imprisonment the place of imprisonment should be specified.
25 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), p. 302, and cases cited in
note.
The nature of the punishment'-whether infamous or notdepends upon the place of imprisonment. Imprisonment in
a state prison or penitentiary, with or without hard labor, is
an infamous punishment. Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S.. 417,
428; Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348, 352; United States
v. De Walt, 128 U. S. 393.
The records of this court sh6w that Dimmick was not confined under the judgment in the county jail prior to his removal to the state prison, but that said judgment had been
superseded pending his appeals. See record in No. -592,
October' term, 1902, 1'89 U. S. 509.
Courts will take judicial notice of their own records with
reference to prior proceedings in the case at bar. Am. & Eng.
Ency. Law (2d ed.), p. 925, and numerous English and American cases cited in note. An appellate court will take judicial
notice of its own record on a'former appeal. Gans v. Holland,
37 Arkansas,'483; Bell v. Williams, 10 La. Ann. 514; Thornton v. Webb, 13 Minnesota, 498; Dawson v. Dawson, 29 Mo.
App. 521. This court also has held that it will take judicial
notice of its own records on a former appeal. Bienville Water
Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217.
The time a convicted person is detained pendirig his appeal
does not run upon the sentence, even where no supersedeas
is granted. Ex parte Duckett, 15 S. Car. 210; Ex parte Espalla,
109 Alabama, 92.
The rule announced in In re Mills, 135 U. S. 263, that a
sentence to imprisonment in the penitentiary must be for a
longer period, than one year, has no application. Petitioner
was sentenced for a longer period than one year.
In this case there w6s but one indictment and the district
court gave but one sentence, for two years, upon the verdict
of conviction. Claasen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140, 146:
voL. cxcIv-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584, 608; Dimmick v. United
States, 116 Fed. Rep. 825.
This court cannot undertake to divide and distribute the
sentence between the two counts. If the sentence is erroneous
in this respect, opportunity should be given the United States
to have Dimmick resentenced in accordance with law upon
the verdict against him. -In re Bonner, 151 U. S.242, 262;
Haynes v. United States, 101 Fed. Rep. 817, 820; Jackson v.
United States, 102 Fed. Rep. 473, 490.
The question whether the facts charged in the indictment
constituted an offense under the statute are not open to review on habeas corpus, since the District Court had general
jurisdiction 6f the class of offenses to which the alleged offense
belonged. Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S.18; Ex parte Watkins, 3
Pet. 193; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.651; In re Coy, 127
U. S.731; In re Eckart, 166 U. S.481.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The appeal directly to this court from the decision of the
Circuit Court denying the writ of habeas corpus was proper
under the averments contained in the petition, that the imprisonment of the appellant was in violation of the Federal
Constitution. Craemer v. Washington State, 168 U. S.124, 127.
The appellant contends that, as his sentence was imprisonment "at hard labor for the term of two years from October 16, 1901," his term of imprisonment under that sentence
necessarily expired by its own limitation on October 16, 1903,
even without any deduction for credits earned by good behavior.
If the appellant had been at once transported to the state
prison under the sentence imposed upon him after his conviction, it is of course plain that two years from the time of
his sentence (if he remained there in the meantime) would be
the extent of his legal detention. In fact, he was not taken

DIMMICK v. TOMPKINS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the state prison until April 13, 1903, but he avers that he
had been previously and from October 16, 1901, the date of
the judgment, to April 13, 1903, imprisoned under said judgment in the county jail of the county of Alameda, by the order
of said District Court. The sentence upon the verdict of guilty
is given in the record, which is made a part of the petition,
and that record shows that the appellant was "sentenced to
be imprisoned at hard labor for the term of two years from
October 16, 1901; and it is further ordered that said sentence
of imprisonment be execute~d upon the said Walter N. Dimmick by imprisonment in the state prison of the State of
California, at San Quentin, Marin County, California."
The imprisonment of the appellant in the county jail could
not, therefore, have been under the judgment which prescribes imprisonment in the state prison. But such detention
may have been owing to his efforts to obtain a review and
reversal of the judgment and in the meantime a supersedeas
thereon, so as to prevent his transportation to the state prison,
and in that case such detention should not be counted as any
part of the time of imprisonment in the state prison., In that
event his imprisonment in the state prison, under the judgment, should be counted from the time it actually commenced,
notwithstanding the statement of the sentence that it should
be for two years from October 16, 1901. The time of commencement was postponed by his own action, and he cannot
take advantage of it and thus shorten the term of his imprisonment at hard labor in the state prison.
Upon this writ the question to be examined is one of jurisdiction, and in this case it is whether the warden of the prison
has the legal right to continue the imprisonment under the
sentence and warrant of commitment notwithstanding the
expiration of two years from the time of sentence. If, as we
have said, the detention in the jail was the result of his own
action, and his imprisonment at hard labor in the state prison
did not, for that reason, commence until April.13, 1903, then
the legal term of his imprisonment in the state prison has not

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.-Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

expired and he is properly detained. As it was incumbent
upon the appellant to show his continued imprisonment was
illegal, (there being no presumption that it was,) the duty
and the burden rested upon him to aver, and, if the averment
were traversed, to prove that his detention in jail had not
been by reason of the fact suggested. This he has not done.
There is no such averment in the petition for the writ and
there is no proof of such fact to be found. Non constat, that
he was not detained for the very reason already stated. This
is fatal to the appellant, so far as this point is concerned.
As might be surmised, there was ample reason for not making the allegation. It would not have been true.
It appears from our own records that a petition for a certiorari was filed in this court by appellant February 2, 1903,
asking for a review of the above-mentioned judgment, and in
that petition it is stated that. the appellant had taken proceedings to have the judgment reviewed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and had obtained a supersedeas thereon, and after
the judgment had been affirmed by that court and on January 13, 1903, the District Court ordered the execution of the
judgment thus affirmed to be stayed for the period of thirty
days from that date to enable the appellant to make application to this court for a writ of certiorari, which 'application
was made, and denied by this court March 2, 1903. 189 U. S.
509. In a case like this the court has the right to examine
its own records and take judicial notice thereof in regard to
proceedings formerly had, therein by one of the parties to the
proceedings, now before it. The principle permitting it is
announced in the following cases: Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S.
240, 242; Craemer v. Washington State, 168 V. S. 124, 129;
Bienville Water Supply Company v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217.

That the party seeking to review a judgment of imprisonment in a state prison cannot take advantage of his own action
in so doing as to thereby shorten the term of imprisonment
in the state prison is, as we think, plain. To hold otherwise
would be inconsistent with the general principle that a person

DIM'1ICK v. TOMPKINS.
i94 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

shall not be permitted to take advantage of any act of another
which was committed upon his own request or was caused by
his own conduct. See McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155, 159.
The question has arisen in some of the state courts and has
been so decided. See Ex parte Duckett, 15 S. Car. 210, decided in 1881; Ex parte Espalla, 109 Alabama, 92, decided in
1896. In such cases the provision of the sentence that the
imprisonment is to commence on or to continue from a certain
day is rendered impossible of performance by the act of the
defendant, and he will not be permitted to obtain an advantage in such manner. The appellant cites no case which
questions this principle. Those cited by him have, generally,
reference to the construction to be given the language of the
sentence as to the time of its commencement. They do not
deny the rule as to the action of defendant in preventing its
execution.
Johnson v. The People, 83 Illinois, 431, is not in point.
The case arose on error brought by the defendant after conviction in the court below. He was convicted under several
counts of an indictment for selling intoxicating liquors and
the sentence fixed a day and hour when the imprisonment
should commence under each count. This was held to be
error, as the sentence to imprisonment should have been for
a specified number of days under each count upon which conviction is had, and the imprisonment under each succeeding
count would begin when it ended under the preceding one,
without fixing the day or hour of any.. It appeared in that
case that a supersedeas had been granted, and that it had
become impossible that the judgment of imprisonment could
be carried into effect, as the time fixed by the court had
elapsed. The sentence was held to be an erroneous one, and
the judgment was reversed and the case remanded with directions that the court should enter a proper judgment on the
verdict.
In Dolan's Cas(, 101 Massachusetts, 219, the prisoner,'
after imprisonment, had escaped before the term of the sen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

tence had expired, and having been retaken claimed his discharge at the expiration of the time that he would have been
entitled to it if he had not escaped. Neither the date of its
commencement nor of its expiration was fixed by the terms
of the sentence. His application was denied, and it was held
that the defendant must be imprisoned for a time which corresponded with his original sentence, and that the expiration
of the time without imprisonment was in no sense an execution of the sentence.
Also, in State v. Cockerham, 2 Ired. Law (24 N. Car.), 204, it
was held that the time at which the sentence should be carried
into execution forms no part of the judgment. The judgment
is the penalty of the law as declared by the court, while the
direction with respect to the time of carrying it into effect is
in the nature of an award of execution. So here, in the case
before us, the material part of the sentence is imprisonment
for two years in the state prison, and that sentence is not
satisfied by a detention in the county jail for a portion of the
two years by reason of the proceedings of appellant to rexiew
the judgment under which the sentence was given.
As to the time of the commencement of the sentence, State
v. Gaskins, 65 N. Car. 320, is based upon a statute, which
declared that the term of imprisonment "shall begin to run
upon and shall include the day of conviction." The question
did not arise by reason of the act of the defendant in taking
proceedings to review the judgment.
Woodward v. Murdolc, 124 Indiana, 439, simply holds that
the period the prisoner is out of jail under parole is part of the
time for which he was sentenced, and when the original time
expires he is entitled to his discharge just the same as if he
had been in prison the whole time. It was held that he was
constructively in prison, although in fact conditionally at
large under his parole, and that while thus on parole his sentence ran on.
The sentence given in this case could only have been satisfied
by imprisonment in the state prison 'at San Quentin for the

DIMMICK v. TOMPKINS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

period of time mentioned in the sentence. This is not the
case of an arbitrary detention in jail, without excuse or justification, alter sentence to imprisonment in a state prison. If
in such case the defendant were helpless, the question might
arise whether the time of such improper detention in jail should
not be counted, as to that extent, a satisfaction of the sentence.
It is also objected that the sentence is void because it directs
imprisonment in the state prison for a period that does not
exceed one year on each count of the indictment, and In re
Mills, 135 U. S. 263, 268, is cited to sustain the proposition.
In that case the prisoner was sentenced upon two indictments to imprisonment in the penitentiary, in one case for a
year and in the other for six months, and it was held that the
imprisonment was in violation of the statutes of the United
States. See Rev. Stat. §§ 5541, 5546, 5547.
In the case at bar the sentence was for two years upon one
indictment, and there is no statement in the record that there
was a separate sentence each for one year upon the first and
fourth counts of the indictment. In this we think there was
no violation of the statute, and the sentence was therefore
proper and legal. The appellant may have been sentenced
uporl one count only for two years. Although.for some purposes the different counts in an indictment may be regarded
as so far separate as to be in effect two different indictments,
yet it is not true necessarily and in all cases. But this record
shows a sentence for two years to the state prison, and there
is nothing to show the court was without jurisdiction to impose
such sentence for the crime of which the defendant was convicted.
It is also objected that the facts charged in either the first
or fourth count of the indictment did not constitute any
offense under the statute, and that the sentence was therefore
without jurisdiction. We are not by any means prepared to
adjudge that the indictment did not properly charge an offense
in both the first and fourth counts. See Dimmick v. United
States, 116 Fed. Rep. 825, involving this indictment, where

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

it is set forth. It is not, however, necessary in this cas, to
decide the point, for the indictment charged enough to show
the general character of the crime, and that it was within the
jurisdiction of the court to try and to punish for the offense
sought to be set forth in the indictment. If it erroneously
held that the indictment was sufficient to charge the offense,
the decision was within the jurisdiction of the court to make,
and could not be reixamined on habeas corpus. The writ
cannot be made to do the office of a writ of error. Even though
there were, therefore, a lack of technical precision in the indictment in failing to charge with sufficient certainty and fullness some particular fact, the. holding by the trial court that
the indictment was sufficient would be simply an error of law,
.and not one which could be rebxamined on habeas corpus. Ex'
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731; In re Eckart,
166 U. S. 481. In the last case it was stated that (page 483)"The case is analogous in principle to that of a trial and
conviction upon an indictment, the facts averred in which are
asserted to be insufficient to constitute an offense against the
statute claimed to- have been violated. In this class of cases
it has been held that a trial court possessing general jurisdiction of the class of offenses within which is embraced the crime
sought to be set forth in the indictment is possessed of authority to determine the sufficiency of an indictment, and that in
adjudging it to be valid and sufficient, acts within its jurisdiction, and a conviction and judgment thereunder cannot
be questioned on habeas corpus, because of a lack of certainty
or other defect in the statement in the indictment of the facts
averred to constitute a crime."
The order refusing the writ was right, and is
Affirmed.

