OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

rate. It was the rate also of all other roads, and presumably
it was adopted and offered to shippers in view of the limitation
of the common law liability of the roads.
(3) The carrier cannot contract against the effect of his
negligence, and hence it is contended that in the case. at bar
the burden of proof is upon the defendant to show -that the
fire was not caused by its negligence or that of its servants.
The contention is answered by Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272.
In that case the bill of lading bound the carrier to deliver the
goods in like good order in which they were received, dangers
and accidents of the seas and navigation excepted. It was
held that after the damage to the goods had been established
the burden lay upon the carrier to show that it was caused
by one of the perils from which the bill of lading exempted the
carrier. But it was also held that even if the damage so occurred, yet if it might have been avoided by skill and diligence
at the time the carrier was liable. "But,' it was observed,
"in this stage and posture of the case the burden is upon the
plaintiff to establish the negligence as the burden is upon him."
The doctrine was affirmed in TransportationCo. v. Downer, 11
Wall. 129. See also section 218, 2 Greenleaf on Evidence.
Judgment affirmed.

CHARNOCK v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 194.

Argued April 8, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Negligence has-always relation to the circumstances in which one is placed,
and what -an ordinarily prudent man would do or omit in such circumstances.

The failure to keep a watchman and fire apparatus at a switch track planta-

CHARNOCK v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion station, maintained for ten years for the convenience of shippers,
who thereby were saved the expense of sending their cotton two and
a half miles to a regular station and who never demanded the additional
protection, no accident or fire occurring during such period, is not negligence on the part of the carrier and in the absence of any evidence whatever as to the origin of the fire, justifies the direction of a verdict for
defendant.
Cau v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co., ante, p. 427, followed as to conditions
under which a common carrier may limit its liability against damages
to goods by fire.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William S. Parkerson,with whom JA1r, Branch K. Miller

was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
In order to be binding, upon the shipper a contract limiting
the common law liability of a carrier must be upheld by a valid
consideration. Hutchinson on Carriers, ยง278; W1ehman v.
Minneapolis &c. Co., 61 Am. & Eng. R. Cases, 273.
In Louisiana, where the consideration is denied, and the
evidence leaves its existence or reality in doubt, the burden
is on the carrier to prove -the consideration. Mossop v. His
Creditors, 41 La. Ann. 297.

The validity or effect of the exemption is determined by
the law of Louisiana.

Liverp6ol &c. Co. v. Phwnix &c. Co.,

129 U. S. 397, 453.
Where proof of one of the facts in issue is peculiarly within
the knowledge of one of the. parties, the burden of proof is
shifted to the party Who hias special knowledge as to the controverted fact, and he must establish it by evidence. King
v. Adkins, 33 La. Ann. 1057, 1065; Sclool Board v. Trim ble, 33

La. Ann. 1073, 1079.
Where i bill of lading, or contract, limiting the liability of
the carrier, contains no statement of the rate paid, the whole
limitation is'void.

Kellerman v. Kan. City &c. R. R. Co., 68

Mo. App. 255, 275.
Contracts limiting the common law liability of carriers are
not favored by the law, and they are not binding on the
VOL. cxc1v-2S

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

194 U. S.

shipper unless fairly made and freely entered into by him.
Adams Express Co. v. Nock, 2 Duval (Ky.), 562, 565; Hance
v. Wabash &c. R. Co., 56 Mo. App. 476, 482.
In order to be valid, such contract must be the choice of
the shipper, and not of the carrier; the shipper must be allowed an" option or opportunity to select under which, the
common law or limited liability, he will ship his goods; if
such free choice or option is not allowed him, the contract is
not reasonable, and therefore is void; both rates, that for
transportation under the common law liability and that under
the limited liability, must be free to the shipper in order that
he may have real liberty of choice in making the selection
between the two; otherwise, the contract limiting the liability
is not fair or reasonable, and therefore is void. Atchison &c.
Co. v. Dill, 56 Am. & Eng. R. Cases, 376; Dovignac v. Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co., 57 Mo. App. 550; Lewis v. Great Western R. Co., 3
Q. B. Div. 195; 47 L. J. Q. B. Div. 131; Car v. Lancashire &c.
Co., 21 L. J. Exc. 261; 7 Exch. 707; L. & N. R. Co. v. Gilbert,
42 Am. & Eng. ft. Cases, 372.
A carrier is not permitted to so limit its liability as to exempt
it from the consequences of its own negligence. N. Y. Central
R. Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; The Tanbark, Fed. Cas.
No. 13,742.
Where there is a clause limiting the liability of a carrier
it bears,: the burden of proof to show not only that the cause
of the loss was within the exemption, but also that it was not
due to its negligence or that of its servants. South &c. Co.
v. Henlin, 56 Alabama, 606; Inman v. South Carolina R. Co.,
129 U. S. 128; Dillard v. L. & N. R. Co., 2 Lea (Tenn.), 288;
Steele v. Townsend, 37 Alabama, 247; Adams Exp. Co. v.
Stetaners, 68 Illinois, 184; Texas &c. Co. v. Richmond, 94
Texas, 571.
In Louisiana, where the contrast exempts the carrier from
any loss by fire, he carries, the bur'den of proving not only, the
exemption, but also that the loss was not due to the carrier's
negligence, or omission of duty, in any manner causing or

CHARNOCK v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

contributing thereto.

Maxwell & Putnam v. So'Pac. R. Go.,

48 La. An'n. 397; Roberts v. Riley, 15 La. Ann. 103.
This rule has been affirmed by decisions of Federal courts.
New Jersey &c. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 383; Seiller
v. Pac. Co., Fed. Cas. No. 12,644; Ormsby v. Union Pac. Co.,
4 Fed. Rep. 706.
The exemption from loss or damage by fire is not effective
unless the fire be the proximate cause of the loss or damage.
Condict v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 54 N. Y. 500.
Proximateecause 6f the 'loss here was not the fire, but defendant's negligence, which preceded it and without which
the fire would not have occurred.
The. delivery of goods for shipment at a place where the
carrier has consented to receive them for transportation is
a complete delivery to the carrier, and when this is done its
liability for the goods is that of a common carrier. St. Louis
&c. Co. v. Murphy, 60 Arkansas, 337; Dixon v. Georgia, &c.
Co.,- 110 Georgia, 173; I. C. R. Co. v. Smiser, 38 Illinois, 354;
Greenwood V. Cooper, 10 La. Ann. 796; Barret v. Salter, 10
Rob. (La.) 424; Fitchburg&c. Co. v. Hanna, 6 Gray (Mass:),
539.
A special contract exempting the carrier from liability in
specified instances is not to be used by it against any claim
of liability as to which it was designed to furnish protection.
So. Pac. R. Co. v. Arnette, 111 Fed. Rep. 849.
Where goods are delivered for shipment at a place designated by the carrier, and before being ladened, and when in
such place, they are stolen or destroyed, the carrier is guilty
of negligence, if it makes no provisions against such theft or
destruction, and is liable to the shipper for the value of the
goods. Hutchinson on Carriers, ยง 89; Fisher v. Brig Norvall,.
8 N. S. (Martin's La. Rep.) 120; Roth v. Harkson, 18 La. Ann.
705.
If the carrier negligently leaves goods in a place of danger, he cannot by stipulation exempt himself from liability
for loss by fire. McFadden v. Railway Co., 92 Missouri, 343.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Mr. Charles P. Cocke, with whom Mr. William Wirt Howe,
Mr. W. B. Spencer and Mr. John F. Dillon were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case was removed from the Civil District Court in and
for the Parish of Orleans to the United States Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana by defendant, on the
ground that it was a corporation organized by an act of Congress of the United States.
The petition alleges that plaintiff delivered to defendant,
at a point on the line of its railway called Meekers' Switch, to
be transported to New Orleans, fifty-two bales of cotton at
a rate of freight then and there agreed upon and a bill of lading
issued to plaintiff. The cotton was loaded upon the cars of
defendant, and while waiting transportation was destroyed
by fire.
The petition charges negligence on the part of defendant in
that it failed to' take measures of precaution for the safety
and protection of the cotton, but left it in the cars on a side
track, "in an open country, unguarded and unwatched." The
bill of lading contained a provision exempting defendant from
liability for damage to or destruction of the cotton by fire,
but the petition alleges that the provision was null and void,
as far as plaintiff is concerned, for the following reasons,
among others: He received no consideration theiefor; the rate
which he agreed to pay was the only rate defendant would give
or was offered; on account of the negligence of the defendant.
The value of the cotton was $2,440.32.
The evidence in the case is that Meekers was a mere switch
track running to the Meekers plantation. No agent was maintained at the station. Shippers wanting cars applied for then)
at the next station. The practice was for shippers to load the
cars furnished and gets bills of lading from the agent who
furnished the cars. The next train passing after the cars were

CHARNOCK v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S;

Opinion of the Court.

loaded took them; that no guard or watchman was placed over
freight was well known.
The loading of the cotton in the present case was completed
at 2 P. M. The bill of lading was obtained at 5 P. M. The fire
was discovered at 10 P. m. The train which was to take the
cars was not due until 9 .. M. next morning.

There was no

evidence of the cause of the fire.
Defendant moved the court to instruct the jury to return
a verdict for it. Plaintiff requested the court to submit to the
jury the question whether or not the destruction of the cotton
was due to or caused by the negligence of the defendant. The
request was denied, and the motion of the defendant was
granted, and a verdict was returned for defendant. From
the judgment entered on the verdict error was prosecuted to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and the judgment was affirmed. 113 Fed. Rep. 91.
This case was argued and submitted with Cau v. Texas &
Pacific Railway Co., and all of its questions are ruled by that
case except one, and that is the effect of leaving the cotton
unguarded on the responsibility of the defendant.
In answering the .question two elements are to be considered
-the negligence of the defendant and its connection with the
destruction of the cotton. If the evidence established neither,
the Circuit Court rightfully directed a verdict for defendant.
Negligence has always relation to the circumstances in which
one is placed, and what an ordinarily prudent man would do
or omit in such circumstances. Applying that test in the case
at bar, we do not think negligence on the part of defendant
was established.
Meekers was not a regular station; indeed was not a station
at all but a mere switch track. The defendant was not obliged
to receive freight there. It was, as said by the Court of Appeals, "a country or plantation switch," established and maintained for the accommodation of the planters of the neighborhood. There was no agent or employ6 maintained there for
the purpose of receiving or guarding freight, nor was there fire

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

apparatus kept. Cars were only sent there when ordered,
loaded by the shipper, and taken by the first passing freight
train to the point of destination. This was the practice for
years, and there is not a word of testimony that it was not
adequate to the protection of the planters as it was to their
accommodation, or that it was in their judgment not a complete fulfillment of the duty of defendant. No circumstance
is shown which demanded a change in the practice. There was
no demand made by the plaintiff for a change. Whatever
risk there was seems to have been accepted as a consideration
for the convenience afforded. It is easy- to understand that
if watchmen had been demanded of the defendant, it would
have insisted upon the delivery of freight at its regular station
at Le Compte, two and one-half miles distant. But the risk
seems not to have been great. No loss from any cause is
shown to have-occurred during the existence of the practice
-nothing shown from which danger could be apprehended.
One of the plaintiff's witnesses testified that tramps passed
up and down the road daily, but what can be inferred from
that? It is inappreciable. Was danger to be apprehended
from their carelessness or malice? During the ten or eleven
years of the existence of the station not an instance of either
is shown.
It is, however, urged that a place of delivery other than a
regular station can be agreed on or established by custom or
practice, and at the instant of delivery the full responsibility
of a carrier attaches.,- To bring the case at bar within those
principles Fischer v. Norvall 8 N. S. (10 Martin) 120; Barret
v. Salter, 10 Rob. Rep. (La.) 434, and Roth v. Harkson, 18 La.
Ann. 705, are cited. The principles may be assented to; the
cases cited are distinguishable from that at bar.
In Fischer v. Brig Norvall thirty-five bales of cotton
were
sent to be shipped on the brig Norvall, and were received by
the captain. The cotton was left-upon the levee unguarded,
and during the night following delivery it was destroyed by
fire. The origin of the fire was not shown, but it was shown

CHARNOCR v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Opirion of the Court.

that it was not customary in the city (New Orleans) to put a

guard over cotton so placed. The code of the State made
carriers liable for loss or damage to property entrusted to their
care, unless they proved that such loss or damage had been
occasioned by accidental and uncontrollable events. The defendants in the- case were adjudged liable. The Supreme
Court held, approving +he decision of the trial court, "there
was negligence in the defendants permitting the cotton to be
exposed all night on the levee, to theft, fire and other accidents, without some person to take care of it." It was not the
care, the court further observed, that a prudent person would
take of his own property, and the custom proved was not a
good excuse. The facts in that case are markedly different
from those in the pending case. Cotton exposed upon the
levees of New Orleans is in a different situation from cotton
enclosed in locked box cars on a side track in the solitude of
the country, and demands a different degree of care.
In Barret v. Salter forty hogsheads of tobacco were delivered
for shipment on the ship Huron. It was receipted for by the
mate. After it was received a heavy rain came, which lasted
about two hours, to which it was suffered to remain exposed.
It was testified that the captain was told that if the tobacco
should be put on board without being opened and trimmed
it would be found damaged on its arrival at destination. It
was so found. The defendants were held liable.
In Roth v. Harlcson the question was whether cotton put
in a place designated by a mate of a ship and covered by a
tarpaulin by the direction of the officers of the ship was delivered to the ship, notwithstanding the officers afterwards
refused to receipt for it on the ground of the lateness of the
hour. It was held to be a delivery.
The question in the case at bar, however, is, not whether
there was delivery to defendant nor when its responsibility
attached, but assuming delivery at Meekers and that defendant's responsibility attached at the time the bills of lading
were issued, was defendant guilty of negligence? That ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

tion we have answered in the negative, nor could the answer
be otherwise, even if it be conceded, as contended by plaintiff,
that under the law of Louisiana the burden of proof was upon
the defendant toshow the absence of negligence. The allegation of the petition was:" That the fire, by which the destruction of said cotton was caused, was due to the negligence of the
said company itself, and of its agents, employ6s and servants;
that the said cotton was by it left- in two cars of the said company, standing upon its track, in the open country, unguarded
and unwatched by the said company, in any particular whatsoever; that it was the duty of the said company to take some
measures of precaution to protect said cars, and the cotton
contained therein, from depredation, loss or injury, by third
persons, wrongdoers or those bent upon mischief; that it totally
failed and neglected to take any measures of precaution, for
the safety and protection of the said cotton, but left it in said
cars, said track, unguarded and unwatched in the night time
during which it was destroyed by fire; that petitioner believes
that the said cotton was set on fire by some malicious person;
that petitioner has no actual knowledge as to the origin or
cause of said fire." The evidence we have commented on,
and, we may only add, it established all that was charged as
negligence, and there was nothing for the defendant to explain. The defendant could, as it did, submit the question of
its liability upon the evidence adduced.
Judgment affirmed.

