OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

it be held that the final decisions in contempt cases in the
Circuit or District Courts are not subject to review by the
Circuit Courts of Appeals? Considering only such cases of
contempt as the present-that is, cases in which the proceedings are against one not a party to the suit, and cannot be
regarded as interlocutory-we are of opinion that there is a
right of review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Such review
must, according to the settled law of this court, be by writ of
error. Walker v. Dreville, 12 Wall. 440; Deland v. Platte
County, 155 U. S. 221; Bucklin v. United States, 159 U. S. 680.
On such a writ only matters of law are considered. The decision of the trial tribunal, court or jury, deciding the facts,
is conclusive as to them.
We, therefore, answer the questions in this way: The second
and fourth in the affirmative, the third in the negative. It
is unnecessary to answer the first.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. DIXON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211. Argued April 13, 190t.-Decided May 16, 1904.

A local telegraph operator called upon specially by a train dispatcher to give
information relative 'to the arrival of a train at his station, to enable the
dispatcher to formulate orders for the movement of other trains, acts in
the matter of giving such information as a fellow servant of train operatives in such sense that the master is not liable to train operatives who
are injured by obeying an erroneous order of the dispatcher that was
induced by. false information given by the local operator.
Negligence of a local telegraph operator and station agent of a railway company in observing and reporting by telegraph to the train dispatcher the
movement of trains past his station, which causes the injury or death of a
fireman of the company without any fault or negligence of the train dis-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

patcher, is not the negligence of a vice principal for which the railway
company is liable in damages to the fireman or his personal representatives,
but is the negligence of a fellow servant of the fireman the risk of which
the latter assumes.
THIS case is before us on questions certified by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The facts as stated
are that Chauney A. Dixon was employed on December 25,
1899, by the Nort ern Pacific Railway Company as a fireman
in operating extra freight train No. 162, and while so engaged
was killed by means of a head-end collision of that' train with
extra freight train No. 159. The company had made and
promulgated time tables for its regular trains and had adopted
reasonable rules for the operation of all its trains. The time
tables did not and could not provide for the running of extra
trains. The company had in its employ a train dispatcher at
Missouja, Montana, who had general power and sole authority
to make and promulgate orders for the running on the division
of the road on which this collision occurred of those trains
which were not governed by the time tables. A large proportion of its freight trains on this division were run as extra
trains and the times of their arrival and departure were not
shown on the regular time tables, but their movements were
made upon telegraphic orders issued by the train dispatcher
upon information furnished by telegraph to him by the station
agents and operators along the line of the road. All these
facts were known to Dixon. One of the rules of the company
was: "Operators will promptly record in. a book to be kept
for the purpose and report to the superintendent the time of
arrival and departure of all trains and the direction in which
extra trains are moving." The reports mentioned in this
rule were made to the train dispatcher and he was vested
with the authority of the superintendent to issue orders for
the movement of trains.
These two freight trains were running in opposite directions,
train No. 162 going east. It arrived at Bonita at 12:35 A. M.
and left there at 12: 50 A. M. The local operator and station

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U- S.

agent at that place was asleep and did not know of or report
its arrival and passage to the dispatcher. None of the crew
of that train were aware of the fact that train No. 159 was
coming west. The railroad had but one track. At 1: 05 A. M.
No. 159 reached Garrison, about 48 miles east of Bonita, and
that was reported to the train dispatcher. Thereupon he
asked the operator at Bonita, by telegraph, whether No. 162
had arrived there, and the operator promptly answered that
it had not. This question was repeated, and the operator
asked if he was sure that No. 162 had not passed Bonita, and
he replied that he was sure that it had not. Thereupon the
train dispatcher issued orders for the movement of these two
trains, which were sufficient to guard against collision if the
information received had been correct, but as it was not correct, the movement of the trains resulted in a collision and the
death of Dixon, to recover damages for which this action was
brought. Upon these facts the Circuit Court of Appeals certified the following questions:
"First. When a local telegraph operator is called upon
specially by a train dispatcher to give information relative
to the arrival of a train at his station, to enable the.dispatcher
to formulate orders for the movement of other trains, does the
local operator in the matter' of giving such information act as
a fellow servant of train operatives in such sense that the
master is not liable to train operatives who are injured by
obeying an-erroneous order of the dispatcher that was induced
by 'false information given by the local operator?
"Second. is the negligence of a local telegraph operator and
station agent of a railway company in observing and reporting
by telegraph to the train dispatcher the movement of trai's
past his station, which causes the injury or death of a fireman
of the company, without any fault or negligence of the'train
dispatcher,, the. negligence of a vice principal for which the
railway company is liable in damages to the fireman 6r his
personal' representatives, or is it the negligence of a fellow
servant of the fireman the risk of which the latter assumes? "

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. C. W. Bunn, Mr. Emerson Hadley and Mr. James B.
Kerr for plaintiff in error, submitted:
The questioAa turns on the character of the act rather than
on the relation of the employ6s to each other. B. & 0. Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 385; Nor. Pac. R. R. v. Petersen,
162 U. S. 346, 353.
In New England Railroad Co. v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323, the
court reviewing all its prior decisions overruled Chicago, M-il
waukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Ross, 112 U. S. 377. Farwellv.
B. & W. R. R. Co., 4 Met. 49; Quebec S. S. Co. v. Merchant,
133 U. S. 375; Oakes v. Mase, 165 U. S. 363; Nor. Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Poirier, 167 U. S. 48; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Charless,,
162 U. S. 359; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Camp, 31 U. S. "App.213,
236; C., N. 0. &c. R. R. Co. v. Clark, 16 U. S. App. 17; Randall v. B. & 0. R. R., 109 U. S. 478.
The precise negligence of the operator was his failure to
observe and report to the dispatcher the passage of a train
by his station, which resulted in the dispatcher giving orders
for another train to move in the opposite direction. The
operator was as much a fellow servant of the fireman in the
performance of the duty of observing the passage of trains
by his station and reporting to the dispatcher, as in communicating orders of the dispatcher to trainmen. Indeed in
communication of orders an operator seems more nearly a vice
principal than in this case, 31 U. S. App. 240. Trainmen
know that in the ordinary course of business the dispatcher
in directing the movement of trains must necessarily rely upon
the observation and report of station operators, and they
know that if an operator is negligent and fails to observe
and report correctly' the natural and probable result is wrong
orders and a collision. In entering the employment they
therefore assume this risk.
See Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Bentz, 40 C. C. A.
56, where a failure of the telegraph operator to keep the train
dispatcher advised as to the whereabouts of a train was, as
in this case, the cause of wrong orders resulting in a collision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

See also Railroad Company v. Frost, 44 U. S. App. 606; Reiser
v. Pennsylvania Co., 152 Pa. St. 38; Sutherland v. Troy &
Boston Railroad Co., 125 N. Y. 737.
Mr. A. M. Antrobus for defendant in error, cited as to obligation to provide orders and schedules of trains: B. & 0.
R. R. Co. v. Andrews, 1 C. C. A. 639; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v.
Poirier, 15 C. C. A. 52; Lewis v. Seifert, 11 Atl. Rep. 514;
Railroad Co. v. Camp, 13 C. C. A. 233; Oregon Short Line v.
Frost, 21 C. C. A. 186; Danigan v. Railroad Co., 56 Connecticut,
285;Hough v. Railroad Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226; Nor. Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 660.
Local operators and the train operators are not fellow servants. Bentz v. Railroad Co., 99 Fed. Rep. 657; 40 C. C. A.
56, distinguished, and see cases cited in that opinion; Dana
v. RailroadCo., 92 N. Y. 639; Shehan v. Railroad Co., 91 N. Y.
332; Flike v. Railroad Co., 53 N. Y. 549; Booth v. Railroad Co.,
91 N. Y. 38; Ell v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 12 L. R. A. 97; Nor.
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mix, 121 Fed. Rep. 476.
The local operator is a vice principal. M. K. & T. Ry.
Co. v. Elliott, 42 C. C. A. 188; Lewis v. Seifert, 116 Pa. St.
627; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Camp, 13 C. C. A. 233; Hankins v.
Railroad Co., 142 N. Y. 416; Harrison v. Railrodd Co., 79
Michigan, 407; Hall v. Galveston &c. R. R. Co., 39 Fed. Rep
18; Price v. Railroad Co., 145 U. S. 651.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
A servant is entitled to recover damages for injuries sufJ
fered through the personal fault or misconduct of his employer, but when the employer has been personally free from
blame and the injury results from the fault or misconduct of
a fellow servant it would seem reasonable that the wrongdoer
should be alone responsible, and that one who is innocent
should not be called upon to pay damages. And such is the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

general rule. But where the employer is a railroad or other
corporation having a large number of employ6s, sometimes
engaged in different departments of service, certai. limitations or qualifications of this general rule have been prescribed.
Perhaps no question has been more frequently considered by
the courts than that of fellow servant, and none attended with
more varied suggestions and attempted qualifications. It has
been discussed so often that any extended discussion in the
present case is unnecessary, and it is sufficient to state the
principal suggestions and consider their applicability to the
case at bar.
In a recent case in this court, New England Railroad Company v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323, it was said (p. 328):
"We have no hesitation in holding, both upon principle and
authority, that the employer is not liable for an injury to one
employ4 occasioned by the negligence of another engaged in
the same general undertaking; that it is not necessary that the
servants should be engaged in the same operation or particular work; that it is enough, to bring the case within the general
rule of exemption, if they are in the employment of the same
master, engaged in the same common enterprise, both employed to perform duties tending to accomplish the same
general purposes, or, in other words, if the services of each in
his particular sphere or department are directed to the accomplishment of the same general end."
Tested by this, it is obvious that the local operator was a
fellow servant with the fireman. They were "engaged in the
same general undertaking," the movement of trains. They
were called upon "to perform duties tending to accomplish
the same general purposes," and "the services of each in his
particular sphere or department were directed to the accomplishment of the same general end." The fireman who shovels
coal into the fire-box of the engine is not doing precisely the
same work as the engineer, neither is the conductor who
signals to the engineer to start or to stop, nor the operator
who delivers from the telegraph office at the station to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

engineer orders to move, and who reports the coming and the
going of trains, arid yet they are all working each in his particular sphere towards the accomplishment of this one result, the
movement of trains.
Another qualification suggested is where the one guilty of
the negligence has such general control and occupies such
relation to the work that he in effect takes the place of the
employer-becomes a vice principal, or alter ego, as he is
sometimes called. If an employer, whether an individual or
a corporation, giving no personal attention to the work, places
it in the entire control of another, such person may be not
improperly regarded as the principal and his negligence that
of the principal. That thought has in some cases been carried
further, and when it appeared that the work in which the
employer was engaged was divided into separate and distinct
departments, the one in charge of-each of those departments
has been regarded as-also a vice principal. In Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 383, we said:
"It is only carrying the same principle a little further and
with reasonab~e application, when it is held that, if the business of the mastdr ind employer becomes so vast and diversified that it naturally separates itself into departments
of service, the*individuals placed by him in charge of those
separate branches and departments of service, and given entire and absolute control therein, are properly to be considered, with respect to employ6s under them, vice principals,
representatives of the master, as fully and as completely as
if the entire business of the master was by him placed under
charge of one superintendent. It was this proposition which
the court applied in the Ross case, holding that the conductor
of a train has the control and management of a distinct department. But this rule can only be fairly applied when the
different branches or departments of service are in and of
themselves separate and distinct.."
So also in Northern Pacific Railroad v. Peterson, 162 U. S.
346, it was held that the foreman of a gang of laborers em-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ployed in putting in ties and keeping in repair a part of the
road, although he had the power to hire or discharge any
laborer and exclusive control and management in all matters
connected with their work, was a fellow servant with the
men in the gang, and on page 355 the rule was thus stated:
"The rule is that in order to form an exception to the general law of non-liabilit the person whose neglect caused the
injury must be 'one who was clothed with the control and
management of a distinct department, and not a mere separate
piece of work in one of the branches of service in a.department.' This distinction is a plain one, and not subject to any
great embarrassment in determining the fact in any particular
case."
Obviously there is nothing in this qualification which has
application here. The negligent person was a local operator
and station agent, and in no reasonable sense of the term a
vice principal or in charge of any department.
Another suggestion is, that the doctrine of fellow servant
does not apply where the servant injured and the servant
guilty of the negligence are engaged in separate departments
of service. In Northern Pacific Railroad v. Hambly, 154 U. S.
349, a common laborer was employed under the direction of a
section boss in building a culvert on the line of defendant's
railroad, and while so employed was struck and injured by a
moving passenger train, the injury resulting solely through
the misconduct and'negligence of the conductor and engineer
of the train. It was held that they were fellow servants, and.
in respect to this suggestion it was said (p. 357):
"As a laborer upon a railroad track, either in switching
trains or repairing the track, is constantly exposed to the
danger of passing triains, and bound to look out for them,
any negligence in the management of such trains is a risk
which may or should be contemplated by him in entering
upon the service of the company. This is probably the most
satisfactory test of liability. If the departments of the two
servants are so far separated from each other that the possi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

bility of coming in contact, and hence oi incurring danger
from the negligent performance of the duties of such other
department, could not be said to be within the contemplation
of the person injured, the doctrine of fellow service should
not apply."
Applying this to the case before us, manifestly the work
of the fireman and the operator brought the parties closely
together in the matter of the movement of the trains. Dixon
knew that any negligence on the part of the operator might
result in injury to him, and must have contemplated such
possibility when he entered the service of the company.
It is urged that "it is as much the duty of the company
to give correct orders for the running of its trains so they
would not collide as it was to see that their servants had
reasonably safe tools and machinery with which to work,
and a reasonably safe place in which to work," and hence,
that one who is employed in securing the correct orders for
the movement of trains is doing the personal work of the
employer, and not to be regarded as a fellow servant of those
engaged in operating and running the trains. But the master
does not guarantee the safety of place or of machinery. His
obligation is only to use reasonable care and diligence to secure
such safety. Here the company had adopted reasonable rules
for the operation of all its trains. No imputation is made of
a want of competency in either the train dispatcher or the
telegraph operator. So far as appears, they were competent
and proper persons for -the work in which they were employed.
A momentary act of negligence is charged against the telegraph operator. No reasonable amount of care and supervision which the master had taken beforehand would have
guarded against such unexpected and temporary act of negligence. Before an employer should be held responsible in
damages it should appear that in some way, by the exercise
of reasonable care and prudence, he could have avoided the
injury. He cannot be personally present everywhere and at
all times, and in the nature of things cannot guard against

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, HARLAN, McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

every temporary act of negligence by one of his employgs.
As said in Whittaker v. Bent, 167 Massachusetts, 588, 589,
by Mr. Justice Holmes, then a member of the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts:
"The absolute obligation of an employer to see that due
care is used to provide safe appliances for his workmen is not
extended to all the passing risks which arise from short-lived
causes. McCann v. Kennedy, ante, p. 23. See also Johnson
v. Boston Towboat Co., 135 Massachusetts, 209; Moynihan v.
Hills Co., 146 Massachusetts, 586, 592, 593; Bjbjian v. Woonsocket Rubber Co., 164 Massachusetts, 214, 219."
Without discussing more at length the various forms and
phases of the question of fellow servants, or the many suggestions which have been made to qualify or limit the general
doctrine, we answer the questions presented as follows:
First. The telegraph operator was, under the circumstances
described, a fellow servant of the fireman.
Second. The negligence of the telegraph operator was the
negligence of a fellow servant of the fireman, the risk of which
the latter assumed.

with whom concurred the CHIEF JUSHARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dis-

MR. JUSTICE WHITE,
TICE, MR. JUSTICE

senting.
As it is given to me to understand the ruling now made,
it reverses many previous decisions of this court and introduces into the doctrine of fellow servant, as hitherto applied
in those decisions, a contradiction which will render it impossible in the future to test the application of the rule of
fellow servant by any consistent principle.
It is undoubtedly true that in many decisions-of state courts
of last resort the rigor of the rule of fellow servant has been
assuaged by an extension of two conceptions, the one designated as "the department theory," and the other as the
"doctrine of vice principal." By the application made of the

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.

WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, HARLAN, MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

first of these in the decisions referred to the relation of fellow
servant would not exist in any case where the servants were
working in separate departments, even although engaged in
a single enterprise or common employment. By the second,
where even a limited authority was possessed by a particular
employ6, such authority would cause him not to be a fellow
servant with those over whom the authority was exercised.
But the decisions of this court, whilst not rejecting absolutely either the department, or the Vice principal, theory,
have with practical uniformity refused to adopt the broad
import given to those theories as above stated. Accordingly
it has been consistently held that the fact of separate departments did not destroy the relation of fellow servant unless the
departments were substantially so distinct as to cause them
to be independent one of the other to such an extent that the
persons engaged in one or the other were not really employed
in the same business. And so also as to the doctrine of vice
principal, it has been uniformly held that it did not apply to
every limited exercise of authority but was only applicable
in cases where the person charged to be a vice principal possessed such general authority and supervision over the business as to cause him in effect to stand in the relation of master
to those employed under him. But whilst thus declining to
fritter away the rule of fellow servant by a latitudinarian
application of the department and vice principal theories,
such theories have always been applied by the decisions of
this court wherever a given case was embraced in the doctrine
as expounded in the rulings of this court above referred to.
Besides, it has been declared by an unbroken line of authority
in this court that, wherever there rests upon the master a
positive duty which the law has imposed upon him towards
his servants, liability of the master or a failure to perform
such positive legal duty could not be escaped by a resort to
the principle of fellow servant because, in an action for damiage occasioned by the neglect of the master to perform such
positive duties, the doctrine of fellow servant had no applica-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U. S.

WHITE,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MCKENNA, DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

tion. I content myself with referring to some of the leading
and more recent cases of this court establishing all the propositions which I have previously stated. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Hambly, 154 U. S. 349; Central Railroad Co. v. Keegan, 160
U. S. 259; Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Peterson, 162 U. S.
346; New England R. R. Co. v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323.
The inapplicability of the doctrine of fellow servant to a
violation by the master of a positive duty resting on him, often
stated in previous decisions, was reiterated in 'Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Company v. Baugh, supra, 387, 'ad-was fully
restated in Central Railroad Co. v. Keegan, supra, where it
was said (p. 263):
"We held in Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company v. Baugh,
149 U. S. 368, that ah engineer and fireman of a locomotive
engine running alone on a railroad, without any train attached,
when engaged on such duty, were fellow servants of the railroad company; hence that the fireman was precluded from
recovering damages from the company for injuries caused,
during the running,' by the negligence of the engineer. In
that case it was declared that: 'Prima jacie, all who enter the
employment of a single master are engaged in a common service and are fellow servants. ...
All enter in the service
of the same master to further his interests in the one enterprise.' And whilst we in that case recognized that the heads
of separate and distinct departments of a diversified business
may, under certain circumstances, be considered, with respect to employ6s 'under them, vice principals or representatives of the master as fully and as completely as if the entire
business of the master was by him placed under the charge bf
one superintendent, we declined to affirm that each separate
piece of work Was a distinct department, and made the one
having control of that" iece of work a vice principal or representative of the master'. It was. further declared that 'the
danger from the negligence of one specially in charge of the
particular work is as obvious and as great as from that of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

HARLAN, MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting. 194 U. S.

Who are simply coworkers with him in it; each is equally with
the other an ordinary risk of the employment,' which the
employ6 assumes when entering upon the employment, whether
the risk be obvious or not. It was laid down that the rightful
test to determine whether the negligence complained of was an
ordinary risk of the employment was whether the negligent
act constituted a breach of positive duty owing by the master,
such as that of taking fair and reasonable precautions to surround his employ~s with fit and careful coworkers, and the
furnishing to such employds of a reasonably safe place to
work and reasonably safe tools or machinery with which to
do the work, thus making the question of liability of an employer for an injury to his employ6 turn rather on the character of the alleged negligent act than on the relations of the
employds to each other, so that, if the act is one done in the
discharge of some positive duty of the master to the servant,
then negligence in the act is the negligence of the master; but
if it be not one in the discharge of such positive duty, then
there should be some personal wrong on the part of the employer before he is liable therefor."
And the Keegan case was cited approvingly in Northern
Pacific Railroad Co. v. Peterson, supra, and Railroad Co. v.
Conroy, supra.
With the rules thus conclusively determined by the prior
decisions of this court, let me come to consider the questions
certified in the light of the facts stated in the certificate. Now,
it is undoubted from those facts that the accident was caused
by an erroneous order issued by the train dispatcher in charge
of the movement of all the trains, and it is equally undoubted
that the fatal error committed by the train dispatcher was
caused by the neglect of an operator on the line of the railroad
with whom the train dispatcher communicated before he gave
the erroneous order. To determine whether the doctrine of
fellow servant applies to such a case it must be ascertained
first, whether the train dispatcher was a fellow servant with
those operating the train; and, second, if he was not, can the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U.S. WHITE, J., The CHIEFJUSTICE, HAImLAN, MCKENNA, JJ.,dissenting.

corporation avoid liability because the error of the train dispatcher was occasioned by the wrong of an operator?
First. Whether it be considered in the light of the doctrine
of vice principal as applied in the decisions of this court, or
from the point of view of the positive duties of the master, it
seems to me that the train dispatcher was not the fellow
servant of the men running the trains. The dispatcher was a
vice principal in the narrowest significance of that term. He
represented the master as to the operation and movement of
trains over the road. He- formulated and transmitted the
orders by which all were to be governed. The duty to obey
his orders rested on those in charge of every train, and upon
complying with this duty of obedience on their part their
safety, as well as the safety of persons employed on or moved
by every train, depended. As the duties of the train dispatcher were of the character just stated, it must besides
follow, in any view, it seems to me, that in performing them
he was discharging a positive duty imposed by law upon the
master. For it cannot, in reason, I submit, be questioned
that the law placed a positive duty on the master to furnish
a safe place to work and to give such orders as would save
those who obeyed them from loss of life or limb. Th.ie opinions
of this court in the cases already referred to leave no room for
question on this latter proposition, and there are other decisions not previously referred to which treat it as elementary.
Hough V. Railroad Co., 100 U. S. 213; Union Pacific Railway
Co. v. 'Daniels, 152 U. S. 684; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Hambly, 154 U. S. 349; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Peterson,
162 U. S. 346, 353.
The doctrine of positive duty was applied to the determination" of whether a train dispatcher was a vice principal and
performed the master's duty, by the Court of Appeals of the
State of New York, in Hankins v. New York, Lake Erie &
Western R. R. Co., 142 N. Y. 416, and was also applied to the
case of a train dispatcher by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Lewis v. Seifert, 116 Pa. St. 628. Indeed, elabora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WmTE, J., The CHIEFJuSTIcr, HARLAN, MCKENNA, JJ.,dissenting.

194 U.S.

tion to show that a train dispatcher is either a vice principal
or one who in the discharge of his functions performs a positive
duty of the master, is unnecessary, since the opinion of the
court in this case proceeds upon the assumption that such is
the case, and rests its conclusion upon the theory that the rule
of fellow servant applies because the error of the train dispatcher was caused by the fault of the operator. This then
is the real issue.
Second. It being then established that the train dispatcher
was either a vice principal or performing the positive duty of
the master, does the fact that his wrongful order for the movement of the train was occasioned by the neglect of the operator
with whom he communicated give rise to the application of
the rule of fellow servant? I fail to perceive how it can, if the
principles which the previous decisions of this court have
upheld are to be adhered to. Those principles are these:
That where the act is one done in the discharge of a positive
duty of the master, negligence in the performance of the act,
however occasioned, is the act of the master, and not the act
of a fellow servant. To say to the contrary, it seems to me, is
to cause the decisions of this court to reduce themselves to
two contradictory propositions; first, that - servant when injured by the act of another person cannot be allowed to recover, by.applying the broad construction given by many of
the state courts to the vice principal and department theories,
because the correct rule is the one which narrows those. theories,
and because, besides, the truer test by which to ascertain the
existence of the relation of fellow servant is to determine
whether the act done was one 0oncerning a positive duty of
the master; and, second, when a case is presented where the
act complained of has been done by a vice principal, under the
view adopted by this court of that theory, or involves a positive duty of the master, there may be no recovery because of
the application of the doctrine of fellow servant to the case.
The result being that recovery cannot be.had in any event.
The decisions of this court leave no doubt as to the true rule

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194U.S.

WHITE,J., The CHIEF JUSTIcE, HARLAN, MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

on the subject. In Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Herbert,
116 U. S. 642, speaking of the positive duty of the master, the
court, through Mr. Justice Field, said (p. 647):
"This duty he cannot delegate to a servant so as to exempt
himself from liability for injuries caused to another servant
by its omission. Indeed, no duty required of him for the
safety and protection of his servants can be transferred so as
to exonerate him from such liability. The servant does not
undertake to incur the risks arising from the want of sufficient and skillful colaborers, or from defective machinery or
other instruments with which he is to work. His contract
implies thatin regard to these Matters his employer will make
adequate provision that no danger shall ensue to him."
In Northern Pacific Railway Company v. Hambly, 154 U. S.
349, the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Brown, thus
.approvingly referred to the Herbert case (p. 357):
"The case of Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S.
642, is an illustration of this principle. The plaintiff in this
case was a brakeman in defendant's yard at Bismarck, where
its cars were switched upon different tracks and its trains were
made up for the road. He received an injury from a defective
brake, which had been allowed to get out of repair through the
negligence of an officer or agent of the company, who was
charged with the duty of keeping the cars in order. It was
held, upon great unanimity of authority, both in this country
and in England, that the person receiving and the person
causing the injury did not occupy the relative position of
fellow servants. See also Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213;
Union Pacific Railway v. Daniels, 152 U. S. 684."
In Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Daniels, 152 U. S. 684, an action
for injury occasioned by the breaking of a defective car wheel,
the existence of which defect had not been discovered owing
to insufficient inspection, liability was sought to be escaped
upon the plea that a sufficient number of competent inspectors
had been employed. But, declaring the liability of the railroad company, the court said (p. 689);
voi,. cxciv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

5., The CHXEF JUSTICE, HARLAN,

MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

194 U.S.

"There can be no doubt that under the circumstances of the
case at bar the duty rested upon the company to see to it, at
this inspecting station, that the wheels of the cars in this
freight train, which was about to be drawn out upon the road,
were in safe and proper condition, and this duty could not be
delegated so as to exonerate the cor :) ny from liability to its
servants for injuries resulting from the omission to perform
that duty or through its negligent performance."
Again, in Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Peterson, 162 U. S.

346, speaking through Mr. Justice Peckham, of the positive
duties of the master, the court said (p. 353):
"He owes the duty to provide such servant with a reasonably
safe place to work in, having reference to the character of the
employment in which the servant is engaged. He also owes
the duty of providing reasonably safe tools, appliances and
machinery for the accomplishment of the work necessary to
be done. He must exercise proper diligence in the employment of reasonably safe and competent men to perform their
respective duties, and it has been held in many States that the
master owes the further duty of adopting and promulgating
safe and proper rules for the conduct of his business, including
the government of the machinery and the running of trains on
a railroad track.' If the master be neglectful in any of these
matters, it is a neglect of a duty which he personally owes to
his employ~s, and if the employ4 suffer damage on account
thereof, the master is liable. If, instead of personally performing these obligations, the master engages another to do
them for him, he is liable for the neglect of that other, which,
in such case, is not the neglect of a fellow servant, no matter
what his position as to other matters, but is the neglect of the
master to do those things which it is the duty of the master
to perform as such."
And these principles have been applied by the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York to a case like the one at bar.
Dana v. Railroad Co., 92 N. Y. 639. In that case, in communicating verbally to a conductor an order received from

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DIXON.
194 U.S.

WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

HARLAN, McKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

the train dispatcher, an error was committed by one Keifer,
a telegraph operator, and a collision between trains resulted.
In the course of the opinion, reversing the judgment which had
been entered in favor of the railroad company, the court said
(p. 642):
"For Keifer's act, in this respect, the defendant is clearly
liable. The act he was required to do, and did perform, was
one for which the master was responsible as a duty pertaining
to itself, and as to it Keifer occupied the place of master.
(Flike v. Boston & Albany R. R. Co., 53 N. Y. 549; 13 Am.
Rep. 545.)"
Nor do I perceive the pertinency, as applied to the facts in
the case at bar, of the extract made from the opinion of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in the case of Whittaker v. Bent, 167 Massachusetts, 588, 589. The doctrine of
transitory risk as expounded in the case referred to and in
previous cases in Massachusetts which that case followed
really amounts only to this, that where the Work is of such a
character that dangers which cannot be foreseen or guarded
against by the master, may in the nature of things suddenly
and unexpectedly arise, there is no neglect of a positive duty
owing by the master in failing by himself or the agencies he
employs to anticipate and protect against that which the
utmost care on his part could not have prevented. But this
doctrine can have no application to a ease like the one in hand,
where the damage was occasioned by an act of obvious neglect
in the performance of a positive duty.
That the doctrine of transitory risk applied in the Massachusetts cases relied upon has no application here, it seems to
me is made clear by the fact that it is stf ted in the certificate
ihat the trains in question were extra trains, obliged by the
rules of the company to run on nor preordained schedule, and
solely under the command of the dispatcher, and that, to quote
the certificate, "a large proportion of its freight trains on this
division were run as extra trains, and the times of their arrivals
and departures were not shown on the regular time tables, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

their movements were made upon telegraphic orders issued
by the train dispatcher upon information furnished by telegraph to the train dispatcher by its station agents and operators
along the line of the railroad." To apply the transitory risk
theory to this condition of affairs it seems to me is to say that
the method permanently adopted by the company for running
the class of trains in question is to be governed, not by that
fact, but by the fictitious assumption that the trains were
temporarily operated by wire alone. The consequence of the
application of the doctrine of transitory risk to the condition
of affairs shown in the certificate is, as I understand it, but to
say that a railroad which chooses to operate its trains solely
through orders of the train dispatcher is a licensed wrongdoer
as respects its employ~s, since thereby it is exempt from those
rules of positive duty which the law would otherwise impose.
The result is, besides, to decide that if a railroad adopts a
regular schedule the law casts a positiveduty on it as regards
its employ6s, but that it may escape all such duty on the
theory of transitory risk, if only the road elects to adopt no
schedule and to operate its trains solely by telegraph.
For the foregoing reasons I dissent.

I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concur in this dissent.

FILHIOL v. TORNEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 252. Submitted April 25, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Where, in an ejectment action, the plaintiffs' statement of their right to the
possession of the land discloses no case within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States, that jurisdiction cannot be estab-.
lished by allegations as to the defence which the defendant may make
or the circumstances under which he took possession.

