CITY & SUBURBAN RY. v. SVEDBORG.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

CITY AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY v. SVEDBORG.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 214." Argued April 13, 1904.-Decided May 2,190t.

Where there is evidence of a substantial character bearing upon the general
issue, the question is for the jury even though the court may think there
is a preponderance of evidence for the party moving for a direction.
Plaintiff is entitled to a verdict if the injury is caused by any of defendant's
employ~s and it is not error for the court to insert " or other employs " in
a requested instruction to the jury that they must find for defendant in
absence of negligence on the part of the particular employ s against
whom the evidence was principally directed.

plaintiff in error is a corporation organized under acts of
Congress and engaged in the business of carrying passengers
for hire in street cars operated on public highways in the District of Columbia.
The. defendant in error was received as a passenger on one
of such cars, and, in alighting from the one in which she was
riding, was thrown to the ground and seriously injured.
The present action was brought against the railway company
to-recover damages on account of such injuries, the theory of
the plaintiff's case being that the car in ,;hich she was a pasind while she was
senger was stopped for her to alight irom it,
stepping off, it was suddenly and recklessly started, whereby,
without negligence on her part, she was violently thrown to
the ground.
The railway company pleaded not guilty as alleged, and the
plaintiff joined issue on that plea.
The case was then tried before the court and a jury the
plaintiff introducing evidence tending to sustain her theory
as to the cause of the injuries received by her, while the defendant introduced evidence tending to sustain'its theory,
which was that the plaintiff negligently attempted to alight
from the car before it had actually stopped.
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

At the conclusion of the plaintiff's evidence the defendant
asked the court to instruct the jury to find in its favor, upon
the ground that the evidence was insufficient to justify a verdict for the plaintiff. That motion was denied, and the defendant excepted. The defendant then introduced evidence,
at the close of which the motion to direct a verdict in its favor
was renewed. The motion was also denied, and the defendant
excepted.
It appears from the record that the court then granted two
instructions at the request of the plaintiff and six instructions
asked by the defendant. But none of the instructions so given,
on either side, were embodied inthe bill of. exceptions. Wlhat
they were this court has no means of knowing.
There was a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff
for $6,500, and that judgment was affirmed in the Court of
Appeals for the District.
Mr. R. B. Behrend and Mr. C. C. Cole for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. A. Lipscomb and Mr. Philip Walker for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The railway company assigns for error the refusal of the trial
court to direct the jury to find a verdict in its favor. The
refusal was proper; for there was evidence of a substantial
character bearing upon the general issue as to the negligence
of the defendant, and therefore the question was one peculiarly
for the jury. Even if the court thought that the preponderance of evidence was for the defendant, it was not bound,
simply for that reason, to have taken the case from the jury,
whatever influence that fact might have in disposing of a motion
for a new trial.
It is also assigned for error that the trial court refused to give
the following instruction to the jury:

CITY & SUBURBAN RY. v. SVEDBORG.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"In order to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, the burden is
upon her to prove by a preponderance of the evidence, to the
satisfaction of the jury, that the car stopped for her to alight,
and that while she was in the act of alighting the car, through
the negligence of the motorman, started, and thereby threw
her to the pavement and injured her, and unless, upon the
whole evidence, the jury shall so find, the verdict should be for
the defendant."
The court refused to grant that instruction without inserting
after the word " motorman" the words "or conductor or both."
These words having been inserted, the instruction was granted.
The defendant excepted to the refusal of the court to give the
instruction as asked.
It is contended that it was error prejudicial to the railway
company to have added these words to the instruction asked,
because by so doing the jury were, in effect, told that there was
sufficient evidence upon which to base an inquiry whether the
conductor was guilty of negligence; whereas, the company
insists, there was not the silghtest proof showing negligence
on the part of the conductor.
We need not review the evidence as to the conductor; for if,
as the defendant. insists, there was no evidence whatever showing negligence upon the part of the conductor, then the modification made by the court could not have so misled the jury as
to prejudice the defence.
It is assigned for error that the trial court refused to grant
the following instruction asked by the defendant: "The jury
are instructed that under the evidence in this case they cannot
find aniy tegligence on the part of the conductor of the car, and
unless they shall find from the evidence that the motorman
was guilty of negligence which caused the accident to plaintiff,
they should find for the defendant, and in considering that
question they cannot infer the existence of any fact not shown
to their satisfaction by the evidence."
Testing the action of the trial court alone by the evidence
set out in the bill of exceptious, we cannot hold that the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

struction in question was improperly denied; for that instruction took it for granted that there was not a scintilla of proof
-none whatever--of negligence on the part of the conductor,
and that the negligence, if there was any, was wholly or exclusively that of the motorman. The court below was not
bound to submit the case to the jury in that way. It was not
bound to make a particular part of the evidence the subject of
a special instruction. Under the circumstances it properly
submitted to the jury the whole case as to the alleged negligence of the company, leaving them to determine whether,
under all the evidence, the injury was caused by the negligence
of its employ6s or any of them. The plaintiff was entitled to
a verdict if the injury was caused by the negligence of any
employ6. Pomeroy v. Boston & Maine Railroad, 172 Massachusetts, 92.
In the argument at the bar much was said by counsel as to
the principles of law announced by the Court of Appeals,
particularly in respect of the application of the maxim "Res
ipsa loquitur." Our attention has been called to many authorities upon that branch of the case. But we deem it unnecessary to extend this opinion by a review of those authorities; for, even if the Court of Appeals erred in its application
of that maxim-and we express no opinion upon that pointthe judgment should not be reversed, since, as we have seen,
the record before us does not show that the trial court committed any error to the substantial prejudice of the defendant.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District must, therefore,
be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dis-ented.

