CAU v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

it was sufficient. The state court has found that such amount
was paid to the sheriff by a check which was subsequently
paid. Whether the defendant Rhodes fully complied with
the requirements of the state statute in order to make a complete tender, is not a Federal question.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

CAU v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 57. Argued April 8, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.
While primarily the responsibility of a common carrier is that expressed
by the common law and the shipper may insist upon such resptnsibility,
he may consent to a limitation of it, and so long as there is no stipulation
for an exemption which is not just and reasonable in the eye of the law
the responsibility may be modified by contract. It is not necessary
that an alternative contract be presented to the shipper for his choice.
A bill of lading is a contract and knowledge of its contents by the shipper
will be presumed and a provision therein against liability for damages
by fire is not unjust or unreasonable. It is not necessary that there be an
independent consideration apart from that expressed in the bill of lading
to support a reasonable stipulation of exemption from liability.
While the burden may be on the carrier to show that the damage resulted
from the excepted cause, after that has been shown the burden is on the
plaintiff to show that it occurred by the carrier's own negligence from
which it could not be exempted.

THIS is an action to recover the value of cotton delivered
by plaintiff to defendant, to be transported over its railroad
from Texarkana, Texas, to New Orleans. The cotton was
destroyed by fire while in the custody of defendant.
The action was originally brought in the Civil District Court
of the Parish of Orleans and removed on the petition of defendant to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana. The case was tried to a jury,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

which, under the instructions of the court, rendered a verdict
for defendant, upon which judgment was entered dismissing
the suit with costs. 113 Fed. Rep. 91.
The main question presented by the record is the effect of a
provision in the bills of lading delivered by defendant to plaintiff, exempting it from liability for damages caused by fire.
Incidentally a question arises as to the burden of proof. At
the time of the delivery of the cotton there were four bills of
lading issued by defendant-three exactly alike and the fourth
substantially like the other three in all that is material to this
case. They all contain the following provision: "That neither
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company nor any connecting
carrier handling said cotton shall be liable for damage to or
destruction of said cotton by fire.

* *

For the purpose of showing the delivery of the cotton to the
defendant the plaintiff introduced in evidence the bills of lading, but without prejudice to his claim hat the proc~ision
quoted was not binding in the absence of a consideration
therefor., The court admitted the bills of lading, with that
limitation.
The other evidence in the case was that the bills of lading in
blank were obtained from the defendant's agent by plaintiff's
agent, and. three of them made out by the latter at his office.
The record leaves doubtful whether the other bill of lading was
prepared by him or by the agent of, defendant. The former,
however, testified that he did not know the fire clause was in
the bills of lading; and further testified as follows:
"A. When I applied to the agent of the Texas and Pacific
railroad for a rate to New Orleans on the cotton I was going
to ship he told me I could get but one rate, 60 cents per 100
pounds; that that was the rate of the other. roads. And I gave
them the cotton because it was the most direct line to New
Orleans. I simply went there to get the rate, and I simply
gave them the cotton at that rate which they gave me, 60 cents
per 100 pounds."
He also testified that he did not want to know the lowest

CAUl r. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

rate; that he asked for the correct rate, he knew there was but
one rate, all of the roads having the same, and that it was
against the law to give other rates.
The following was the testimony as to the fire clause:
"Q. What I mean to say is this: Did you tell the agent of
whom you asked for the rate that you did not want any fire
clause in any bill of lading which -he might issue to you?
A. No, sir.
"Q. Did you tell him that you wanted to ship your cotton
without any fire clause in the bill of lading? A. No, sir; because I did not know it was in the bill of lading.
"Q. Therefore you made no application to him then for a
rate based on a bill of lading not containing the fire clause?
A. I made no application that way; I made no inquiries; I
just asked for the rate.

"Q. Allowing that his reply to you was only one rate, was
anything said by him as to the different kinds of contracts you
could get? A. No, sir; he never said anything to me at all.
"Q. Were you or not informed that you could get a contract
under which the company would be liable as insurer, practically, and another kind of contract, under which they would
not be liable for loss in case of fire? A. No, sir.
"Q. Did you have any information, or did you know that
if you wanted to make a choice between these two 'that you
could do it? A. No, sir."
The cotton was in the possession of the Union Compress
Company when destroyed to which company it had been delivered by defendant to be compressed, and that company had
obtained insurance on it for the defendant, it being the custom
of that company to effect insurance for the benefit and in the
name of each particular railroad compressing cotton at their
press. The testimony of the destruction of the cotton is that
the Union Compress Company's building and platforms in
Texarkana, Texas, were destroyed by fire Sepember !.9, 1900,
in which the cotton was destroyed with other cotton.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Plaintiff requested instructions of the court which embodied
the following propositions:
1. A carrier cannot limit his common law liability without
consent of the shipper for consideration given.
2. The mere contract of shipment is not such a consideration.
3. The condition usually, though not necessarily, is a reduced
rate, but in such case both rates must be offered shipper and
be reasonable, and the shipper given a genuine freedom of
choice in making his selection, and if the evidence satisfied the
jury, "there was no fair alternative or choice offered to plaintiff by defendant as between two rates, under one of which
defendant would be liable for the loss of said cotton by fire,
and under the other of which he would not be so liable," the
fire clause was not binding upon plaintiff, and the jury might
"deal with such bill of lading as though it did not contain
such clause or stipulation."
4. The burden of proving the reasonableness of the fire
clause, and that plaintiff had a fair opportunity to refuse or
accept it, rested upon the defendant.
Mr. W. S. Parkerson,with whom Mr. Branch K. Miller was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.'
Mr. Charles P. (Cocke,with whom Mr. William Wirt Howe,
Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr. Walter B. Spencer were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
M. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is well settled that the carrier may limit his common law
liability. York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107. But it
is urged that the contract must be upon a consideration other
than the mere transportation of the property, and an "option
'For abstract of argument, which was substantially the same as in Charnook v. Texas & Pacific.Railway Co., see post, 433;

CAU v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and opportunity must be given to the shipper to select under
which, the common law or limited liability, he will ship his
goods."
If this means that a carrier must take no advantage of the
shipper or practice no deceit upon him, we agree. If it means
that the alternative must be actually presented to the shipper
by the carrier, we cannot agree. From the standpoint of'the
law -the relation between carrier and shipper is simple. Primarily the carrier's responsibility is that expressed in the common law, and the shipper may insist upon the responsibility.
But he may consent to a limitation of it, and this is the "option
and opportunity" which is offered to him. What other can
be necessary? There can be no limitation of liability without
the assent of the shipper, New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v.
Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, and there can be noe stipulation
for any exemption by a carrier which is not just and reasonable
in the eye of the law. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357;
Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174.
Inside of that limitation, the carrier may modify his responsibility by special contract with a shipper. A bill of lading limiting liability constitutes such a contract, and knowledge of the contents by the shipper will be presumed.
(2) It is again urged that there was no independent consideration for the exemption expressed in the bill of lading.
This point was made in York. Co. v. Central Railroad, supra.
In response it was said: "The second position is answered by
the fact, that there is no evidence that a consideration was not
given for the stipulation. The company, probably, had rates
of charges proportioned to the risks they assumed from the
nature of the goods carried, and the exception of losses by fire
must necessarily have affected the compensation demanded.
Be this as it may, the consideration expressed was sufficient
to support the entire contract made."
In other words, the consideration expressed in the bill of
lading -was sufficient to support its stipulations. This effect
is not averted by showing that the defendant had only one

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

rate. It was the rate also of all other roads, and presumably
it was adopted and offered to shippers in view of the limitation
of the common law liability of the roads.
(3) The carrier cannot contract against the effect of his
negligence, and hence it is contended that in the case. at bar
the burden of proof is upon the defendant to show -that the
fire was not caused by its negligence or that of its servants.
The contention is answered by Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272.
In that case the bill of lading bound the carrier to deliver the
goods in like good order in which they were received, dangers
and accidents of the seas and navigation excepted. It was
held that after the damage to the goods had been established
the burden lay upon the carrier to show that it was caused
by one of the perils from which the bill of lading exempted the
carrier. But it was also held that even if the damage so occurred, yet if it might have been avoided by skill and diligence
at the time the carrier was liable. "But,' it was observed,
"in this stage and posture of the case the burden is upon the
plaintiff to establish the negligence as the burden is upon him."
The doctrine was affirmed in TransportationCo. v. Downer, 11
Wall. 129. See also section 218, 2 Greenleaf on Evidence.
Judgment affirmed.

CHARNOCK v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 194.

Argued April 8, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Negligence has-always relation to the circumstances in which one is placed,
and what -an ordinarily prudent man would do or omit in such circumstances.

The failure to keep a watchman and fire apparatus at a switch track planta-

