BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

That being the case, the Circuit Court, following the mandate
of the statute, should not have proceeded therein, but should
have remanded the cause to the state court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case is sent
back with directions that it be remanded to the state court.

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF- THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 535. Argued March 9, 10, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Statutory provisions must be interpreted in the light of all that may be done
under them. In all controversies, civil and criminal, between the Government and an individual, the latter is entitled to reasonable protection.
The Fifth Amendment is satisfied by one inquiry and adjudication, and an
indictment found by the proper grand jury should be accepted anywhere within the United States as at least prima Jacie evidence of probable
cause and sufficient basis for removal from the district where the person
arrested is found to the district where the indictment was found.
The place where such inquiry must be had, and the decision of the grand jury
obtained, is the locality in which by the Constitution and laws the final
trial must be had.
ON July 23, 1903, a grand jury of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York found and
returned an indictment under section 1781, Rev. Stat., charging George W. Beavers, an officer of the government of the
United States, with having received money for procuring a
contract with the government for the Edward J. Brandt-Dent
'Company. A warrant for the arrest of the official was issued
to the marshal of the district and returned "not found."
Thereupon a complaint supported by affidavit was filed in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, alleging the finding of the indictment, the issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

of the warrant, the return "not found," and that Beavers was
within the Southern District of New York. Upon this complaint a warrant was issued, Beavers was arrested and brought
before a commissioner. A hearing was had before that officer,
and upon his report the District Judge of the Southern District signed an order of removal to the Eastern District. Before this order could be executed Beavers presented his petition to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York for a writ of habeas corpus. After a
hearing thereon the application for discharge was denied, and
thereupon an appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. Max D. Steuer, with whom Mr. Bankson T. Morgan and
Mr. William M. Seabury were on the brief, for appellant:
When the defendant was arraigned it was the duty of the
commissioner to inquire as to the identity of the accused,
whether a 'crime had been committed, -and whether there was
probable cause to believe the defendant guilty of the crime
charged.
Section 1014, Rev. Stat. establishes the practice of the
State where the examination is held as the practice in conformity to which the examination must be conducted. Proceedings
instituted thereunder are in all respects similar to criminal
proceedings instituted before a committing magistrate in the
State where the arrest is made and should be governed and
controlled by the rules of procedure in force in the State where
the arrest is made. Re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886, 893; United
States v. Rundlett, 2 Curt. 42; United States v. Case, 8 Blatchf.
251; United States v. Horton,2 Dill. 94; United States v. Brawner,
7 Fed. Rep. 86, 90; United States v. Martin, 17 Fed. Rep. 150,
156; Re Burkhardt, '33 Fed. Rep. 25, 26; United States v.
Greene, 100 Fed. Rep. 941.
See as to procedure in New York, §§ 188, 194, 195, 201, 207,
New, York Code Criminal Procedure.
Authority to issue subpcenas duces tecum is conferred upon
committing magistrates by §613.

BEAVERS i.. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

From these provisions of the state code it appears that it is
the duty of the committing magistrate to determine for himself
whether or not a crime has been committed, and whether, from
the evidence adduced before him, ther6 is sufficient cause to
believe the defendant guilty thereof.
For history and growth of these provisions, see In re Dana,
68 Fed. Rep. 886, 894, and cases cited.
In United States v. Greene, 100 Fed. Rep. 941; 108 Fed. Rep.
816, it was held that an indictment was not conclusive evidence,
of the fact stated therein, even though indorsed with the names
of witnesses, and in Green v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 241, no doubt
was suggested by this court as to the correctness of these views
Since those decisions an attempt was made to have CongrdA
amend the lhw so as to provide that a certified copy of ,aq
indictment should of itself be competent and sufficient e-4dence to justify a removal.
The proposed amendment was at the time extensively cQu,
mented upon and public hearings were had, and after fll
investigation and discussion Congress refused to make the
proposed amendment. Congressional Record, April and May,
1900; New York Law Journal, April 28, 1900; New York
Evening Post, April 24, 1900; New York Sun, April 25, 1900,
May 4 and 5, 1900; New York Times, May 7, 1900.
The effort of the Government in this case is to effect a change
in the law by judicial construction which the legislative branch
of the Government deliberately refused to make.
As to Alexander's Case, 1 Lowell's Dec. 530, holding that an
indictment was evidence outside of the jurisdiction where it
was found, see contra, United States v. Pope, 24 U. S. Int.
Rev. Rec. 29.
And as to this point see United States v. Haskins, 3 Saw.
265; Ex parte Clark, 2 Ben. 540; United States v. Dana, 68
Fed. Rep. 886; United States v. Rogers, 23 Fed. Rep. 658;
United States v. Fowkes, 49 Fed. Rep. 50; In re Buell, 3 Dill.
.120; Opinions of Miller and Love, JJ., in 1 Wool. C. C. 423.
.No statutory provision exists making a copy of an indict-

OCTOBER TER I

1903.

A -ument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

ment evilence in another jurisdiction and until such statute
is passed it is not evidence. Ex parle Bollm an, 4 Cranch, 75.
As to the minutes of the grand jury which found the indictment where the disclosure is necessary to protect the rights of
the accused they are open to judicial inquiry. United States v.
Coolidge, 2 Gall. 363; Burdick v. Hunt, 43 Indiana, 381; Low's
Case, 4 Greenl. 439; Hunter v. Randall, 69 Maine, 183.
In New York and other States a defendant may be entitled
to an inspection of the minutes of the grand jury in a proper
case, even when he contends that the evidence on which lhe
indictment was found is insufficient in law to sustain it. The
fact that the defendant was indicted without preliminary
examination is a strong inducement to the court to look with
favor on such an application. People v. Molineux, 27 App.
Div. 60; People v. Naughton, 38 How. Pr. 430; People v. Bellows, 1 How. Pr. (N. S.) 149; State v. Broughton, 7 Ired. 96;
State v. Horton, 63 N. Car. 595; United States v. Reed, 2 Blatchf.
435; People v. Northey, 77 California, 634.
As to effect of evidence before grand jury, see People v.
Ristenblatt, 1 Abb. Rep. 268; People v. Strong, 1 Abb. N. S.
241; United States, v. Kilpatrick, 16 Fed. Rep. 765; 1 Whart.
Cr. L. § 493; In re Woods, 95 Fed. Rep. 288.
The alleged hearing accorded to the defendant was a mockery
and a sham. Every rule and principle of evidence and justice
was violated. The indictment, unindorsed as it was with the
name of a single witness, was held to be conclusive evidence
against the accused.
The defendant is entitled to have the most favorable inferences drawn from the refusal of the commissioner to allow
the questions propounded to be answered. Having offered
in good faith to establish facts before the commissioner, and
having been denied an opportunity, he is entitled before an
appellate tribunal tao the presumption that such facts exist.
Scotland County v. Hill, 112 U. S.186; Powell v. Pen, 127 U. S.
.688; Rockefeller v. Merritt, 76 Fed. Rep. 914; Ankeny v. Clark,
148 U. S. 355.

BEAVERS r. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Argumenit for Appellant.

The conduct of the prosecution in preventing the introduction of the primary evidence shown to be conveniently accessible, and the rulings of the commissioner in support thereof,
create a presumption that the testimony of the witnesses, if
produced, would have been favorable to the accused. Tayloe
v. Riggs, 1 Pet. 591; Hughes' Case, 2 East. P. C. 1002; Greenleaf on Ev. § 82.
The indictment cannot be regarded as equivalent to an affidavit of the facts alleged therein.
An affidavit or complaint entirely upon information and
belief, without properly setting forth the sources of the affiant's
knowledge and the grounds for his belief, is insufficient. Re
Blum, 9 App. Div. 571; Blodgett v. Race, 18 Hun, 131; Blythe
v. Tompkins, 2 Abb. Pr. 468; People v. Cramer, 22 App. Div.
129; Comfort v. Fulton, 13 Abb. Pr. 276; United States v.
Sapinkow, 90 Fed. Rep. 654; Ex pare Hart, 63 Fed. Rep. 249;
Re Commissioners, 3 Woods, 502; United States v. Burr, 2
Wheel. Cr. Cases, 573; United States v. Collins, 79 Fed. Rep.
65; Johnson v. United States, 87 Fed. Rep. 187; United States
v. Polite, 55 Fed. Rep. 59; Ex parte Dimoning, 74 California,
164.
Even if evidence had been presented before the commissioner,
the fact that the petition for the writ alleged that the accused
was not within the Federal district where and when the crime
charged in the. indictment is alleged to have been committed
in itself entitled the petitioner to the writ of habeas corpus as
a matter of right.
Upon probable cause being shown, the writ of habeas corpus
cannot be denied the petitioner, for it then becomes a%constitutional right. Rev. Stat. § 755; Church on Habeas Corpus,
§ 94; Hurd on Habeas Corpus, 2d ed. 204; Ex parte Des Rochers,
1 McAll. 86; In re Winder, Fed. Cas. No. 17,867; Ex parte
Early, 3 Ohio Dec. 105; Ex parte Campbell, 20. Alabama, 89;
Nash v. People, 36 N. Y. 607.
If facts are duly alleged-in a duly verified petition for a writ
of habeas corpus, they may be regarded as true, even after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 t. S.

granting of the writ and a return thereto, unless denied by the
return or controlled by other evidence. Whitten v. Tomlinson,
160 U. S. 242; Kohl v. Lehlback, 160 U. S. 292; Cuddy, Peti-.
tioner, 131 U. S. 280. A fortiori the allegation should be re.garded as true before the issuance of the writ.
The defendant could only be tried in the district wherein the
crime was committed. Amendment 6, U. S. Const. The
place of the commission of the offense is for the purpose of the
preliminary hearing a jurisdictional fact and might be confroverted upon habeas corpus proceedings, even though such
a jurisdictional fact had been previously established by a final
judgment of a court of general jurisdiction. Noble v. Union
River Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165, 173; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 534; Roderigas v. East River Savings Inst., 63 N. Y. 460,
464; People v. Board of Health, 140 N. Y. 1; Miller v. Amsterdam, 149 N. Y. 288; McLeon v. Jephson, 123 N. Y. 142; Neilson,
Petitioner, 131 U. S. 176, 182; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163;
Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371.
The commissioner in proceedings under section 1014 does
not hold a "court," Todd v. United State, 158 (,. S. 278, nor
is he in the constitutional sense a judge, Rice v. Ames, 180
U. S. 371, 378. He is a mere ministerial officer upon whom,
While acting as a committing magistrate in such proceedings, is
impbsed the exercise of duties which are judicial in character.
United States v. Schumann, 2 Abb. U. S. Reps. 523; United
States v. Jones, 134 U. S. 483; United States v. Erwing, 140
U. S. 142; Re Ellerbe, 13 Fed. Rep. 530; In re Mason, 43 Fed.
Rep. 510; Ex parte Perkins, 29 Fed. Rep. 900; In re Perkins,
100 Fed. Rep. 953; United States v. Hughes, 70 Fed. Rep. 972.
He cannot punish for a contempt committed in his presence.
Ex parte Perkins, 29 Fed. Rep. 900; Re Mason, 43 Fed. Rep.
510. And see Er parte Dole, 7 Phila. 595; United States v.
Allred, 155 U. S. 595; Black on Judgments, §283; People v.
Schuyler, 69 N. Y. 242, 247.

In case of courts martial and delinquency courts and other
tribunals of limited and inferior jurisdiction, whether the rec-

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

ords recite jurisdictional facts or not, their judgments are
open to impeachment by extrinsic evidence, showing want of
jurisdiction. People ex rel. Frey v. Warden, 100 N. Y. 20, 26;
Adams v. S. & W. R. R. Co., 10 N. Y. 328; Mills v. Martin,
19 Johns. 7; People v. Cassells, 5 Hill, 164; Greenleaf on Evidence, 470; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 207; Hardin v. Jordan,
140 U. S. 401.
The legal effect of a warrant issued by the chief executive
of a State in an interstate rendition proceeding is that it is
but prima facie sufficient to hold the accused, and the jurisdictional facts recited in such warrant are subject to be rebutted by proof on habeas corpus. Cockran v. Hyatt, 188
U. S. 691, 711; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624; People ex rel.
Cockran v. Hyatt, 172 N. Y. 176; People ex rel. Lawrence v.
Brady, 56 N. Y. 182; Ex parte Todd, 57 L. R. A. 566; Matter
of Cook, 49 Fed. Rep. 823; Ex parte Hart, 63 Fed. Rep. 260;
Work v. Connington, 34 Ohio St. 64; Matter of Manchester, 5
California, 237; 15 An!. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2(1 ed.), 204.
Whether or not the accused committed the acts complained
of while actually present within the demanding State, is jurisdictional, and it is competent in such cases to show in habeas
corpus proceedings by parol evidence that the accused was not
within the demanding State when the alleged acts were'committed, however regular the extradition papers may be. In re
Mohr, 73 Alabanla, 508; Wilcox v. Nolze, 34 Ohio St. 320;
Hartman v. Aveline, 63 Indiana, 344; Jones v. Leonard, 50
Iowa, 106; Hibler v. The State, 43 Texas, 197.
The accused did not waive his right to raise this question
by writ by reason of failure to offer such proof before the commissioner. The question of the jurisdiction of the court may
be raised at any stage of a criminal proceeding in the same or
in another tribunal. It is never waived by a defendant, and(
he is not barred from raising it, even because of negligence or
delay. Bishop's New Cr. Proc. § 316, par. 2; Hughes' Cr. L.
Proe. § 2509; United States v. Rogers, 23 Fed. Rep. 658; Tnited
States v. Crawford, 47 Fed. Rep. 566; Dred Scott V. Sandford, 19

OCTOBER TERM, 103.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

How. 402; In re Webb, 89 Wisconsin, 354; Mexican Bank v.
Davidson, 157 U. S. 208.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the appellee:
A writ of habeas corpus and certiorari ancillary thereto
cannot be used to perform the office of a writ of error. Ornelas
v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502; Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270;
Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40, 57; Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S.
249.
A writ of certiorari does not enlarge the office of a writ of
habeas corvus, but is employed in connection with such writ

in order that the court may ascertain from the record whether
jurisdictional questions have been disregarded, and the defendant is restrained of his liberty without due process of law.
Ex parte Lang, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339.
The indictment sufficiently charges the defendant with the
commission of a crime against the United States under § 1781,
Rev. Stat.
The complaint made before the United States Commissioner
was based entirely upon information and belief, and contained proper allegations showing the sources of information
and the grounds of complainant' belief. Rice v. Ames, 180
U. S.371, 374.
Section 1014, Rev. Stat., when properly construed, is intended, in case of indictment, to furnish the Government a
convenient and summary method of securing the appearance
of the defendant before the United States court in which the
indictment was found. In re Ellerbe, 13 Fed. Rep. 530; United
States v. Yarbrough, 122 Fed. Rep. 293; Greene v. Henkel, 183
U. S.258.
If in a proceeding under § 1014, the defendant after indictment is entitled to a preliminary examination for the purpose
of establishing probable cause, a certified copy.of the indictment and proof of identity of the defendant, are sufficient to
make out a prima facie case sufficient to sustain a finding of
the Commissioner of. the existence of probable cause. In re

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 891; United States v. Greene, 100 Ved. Rep.
941; United States V. Greene, 108 Fed. Rep. 816; Bryant v.
United States, 167 U. S. 104; Otieza v. Jacobus, 136 U. S. 330;
Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 207 ; In re Wood, 95 Fed. 11
- cp.
288; Price v. McCarthy, 32 C. C. A. 162;S. C., 89 Fed. Rep. 84..
In the case at bar the Government has followed a practice
well recognized for many years by the Federal courts in nearly
every district in the United States, and while it may be that
if it is once admitted that in all procedings under § 101.4 the
defcndant is entitled to a preliminary examination for the.purpose of establishing probable cause, that the defendant would
be entitled as of right to introduce evidence learing upon such
question, it is suflicient to say that in the case at bar -the appeliaut did not arail himself of such opportunity in any direct
and proper nmanner.
A certified copy (f the indictment and proof of identity are
sufficient to est ablislh probal, cause, and authorize a warrant
of removal. Se United States v. Aaron Burr, Fed. CaS.
No. 14,692; United 1tacs v. Newcomber, Fed. Cas. No. 15,869;
In re Clark, Fed. Cas. No. 2797 - In re Bailey, Fed. Cas. No. 730;
United States. v. Jacobi, Fed. (.as. No. 15,460; United States v.
Shepard, Fed. C(as,. No. 16,273; In re Alexander, Fed. Cas.
No. 162; United States v. Hendricks, Fed. Cas. No. 15,313;
In re Buell, Fed. Cas. No. 2102; United States v. Pope, Fed.
Cas. No. 16,069; In re Doig, 4 Fed. Rep. 193; In re Ellerbe, 13
Fed. Rep. 530; United States v. Rogers, 23 Fed. Rep. 658;
United States v. White, 25 Fed. Rep. 716; In re Wolf, 27 Fed.
Rep. 606; Inre Graves, 29 Fed. Rep. 66; United States v. Fokes,
53 Fed. Rep. 13; S. C., 49 Fed. Rep. 50; In re Beshears, 79 Fed.
Rep. 70; United States v. Lee, 84 Fed. Rep. 626; In re Belknap,
96 Fed. Rep. 614; In re Richter, 100 Fed. Rep. 295; Greene v.
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249;-United States v. Yarbrough, 122 Fed.
Rep. 293.
A certified copy of the indictment, together with proof of
identity of the defendant having been offered by the Government, a prima facie case of probable cause was established and
vOL. exciv-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

the finding of the Commissioner upon this question is not subject to review on a writ of habeas corpus. Greene v. Henkel,

183 U. S. 249, 261.
The appellant upon the hearing before the Commissioner
did not offer any competent evidence to rebut the case presented by the Government. The appellant's whole contention
before the Commissioner was directed toward an effort to prove
that the proceedings before the grand jury which returned the
indictment were illegal and void, and that consequently no
valid indictment had in fact been returned against George W.
Beavers. A brief examination of the record will clearly disclose this fact.
A magistrate, acting pursuant to § 1014, Rev. Stat., is
justified in treating the instrument as an indictment found by
a competent grand jury, and is not compelled or authorized to
go into evidence which may show or tend to show violations
of the United States statutes in the drawing of the jurors
composing the grand jury which found the indictment. Greene
v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the efficacy of an indictment in removal proceedings. The government offered no other evidence
of petitioner's guilt. His counsel state in their brief:
"The controlling questions to be discussed on this appeal
are whether the indictment offered in evidence before the
commissioner can be regarded as conclusive evidence against
the accused of the facts therein alleged; whether it was competent at all as evidence of such facts, and whether such indictnent was entitled to be accorded any probative force
whatever."
At the outset it is well to note that this is not a case of extradition. There was no proposed surrender of petitioner by the
United States to the jurisdiction of a foreign nation, no abandonment of the duty of protection which the nation owes to all

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within its territory. There was not even the qualified extradition which arises when one State within the Union surrenders
to another an alleged fugitive from its justice. There was
simply an effort on the part of the United States to subject a
citizen found within its territory to trial before one of its own
courts. The locality in which an offense is charged to have
been committed determines under the Constitution and laws
the place and court of trial. And the question is what steps
are necessary to bring the alleged offender to that place and
before that court.
Obviously very different considerations are applicable to
the two cases. In an extradition the nation surrendering
relies for future protection of the alleged offender upon the
good faith of the nation to which the surrender is made, while
here the full protecting power of the United States is continued
after the removal from the place-of arrest to the place of trial.
It may be conceded that no such removal should be summarily
and arbitrarily made. There are risks and burdens attendifig

it which ought not to be needlessly cast upon any individual.
These may not be serious in a removal from New York to
Brooklyn, but might be if the removal was from San Francisco
to New, York. And statutory provisions must be interpreted
in the light of all that may be done under them. We must
never forget that in all controversies, civil or criminal, between
the government and an individual the .latter is entitled to reasonable protection. Such seenms to have been the purpose of
Congress in enacting section 1014, Rev. Stat., which requires
that the order of removal be issued by the judge of the district
in which the defendant is arrested. In other words, the removal is made a judicial rather than a mere ministerial act.
In the light of these considerations we pass to an inquiry into
the special matters here presented. Article 5 of the amendmoarts to the Constitution provides:
No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of
a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces,

OCTOBER 'I'ERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

or in the militia, when in actual service in time of war or public
danger."
While many States, in the exercise of their undoubted
sovereignty, Hurtado v. California, 110 IJ. S. 516, have provided for trials of criminal offenses upon information filed by
the prosecuting officer and without any previous inquiry or
action by a grand jury, the national Constitution, in its solicitu'de for the protection of the individual, requires an indictment as a prerequisite to a trial. The grand jury is a body
known to the common law, to which is committed the duty
of inquiring whether there be probable cause to believe the
defendant guilty of the offense charged. Blackstone says
(vol. 4, p. 303):
"This grand jury are previously instructed in the articles
of their inquiry, by a charge from the judge who presides upon
the bench. They then withdraw, to sit and receive indictments, which 'are preferred to them in the name of the king,
but at the suit of any private prosecutor; and they are only to
hear evidence on behalf of the prosecution; for the finding of
an indictment is only in the nature of an inquiry or accusation,
which is afterwards to be tried and determined; and the grand
jury are only to inquire, upon their oaths, whether the-me be
sufficient cause to call upoff the party to answer it. A grand
jury, however, ought to be thoroughly persuaded of the truth
of an indictment, so far as their evidence goes; and not to rest
satisfied merely with remote probabilities: a doctrine that
might be applied to very oppressive purposes."
The thought is that no one shall be subjected to the burden
and expense of a trial until there has been a prior inquiry and
adjudication by a responsible tribunal ° that there is probable
cause to believe him guilty. But the Constitution does not
require two such inquiries and adjudications. The government, having once satisfied the provision for an inquiry and
obtained an adjudication by the proper tribunal of the existence of probable cause, ought to be able without further litigation concerning that fact to bring the party charged into

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court for trial. The existence of probable cause is not made
more certain by two inquiries and two indictments. Within
the spirit of the rule of giving full effect to the records and
jtdicial proceedings of other courts, an indictment, found by
the proper grand jury, should be accepted everywhere through
the United States as at least prima facie evidence of the existence of probable cause. And the place where such inquiry
must be had and the decision of a grand jury obtained is the
locality in which by the Constitution and laws the final trial
must be had.
While the indictment is prima facie evidence it is urged that
there are substantial reasons why it should not be regarded as
conclusive. An investigation before the grand jury, it is said,
is generally ex parte-although sometimes witnesses in behalf
of the defendant are heard by it-and the conclusion of such
ex parte inquiry ought not to preclude the defendant from
every defence, even the one that he was never within the
State or district in which the crime is charged to have been
committed, or authorize the government to summarily arrest
him wherever he may be found, transport him perhaps far
away from his home and subject him among strafigers to the
difficulties and expense of making his defence. It is unnecessary to definitely determine this question. It is sufficient for
this case to decide, as we do, that the indictment is prima facie
evidence of the existence of probable cause. This is not in
conflict with the views expressed by this court in Greene v.
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249. There it appeared that after an indictment had been found by a grand jury of the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Georgia the defendants were arrested in New York; that on a hearing before
the commissioner he ruled that the indictment was" conclusive
evidence of the existence of probable cause, and declined to
hear any testinony offered by the defendants. Upon an application to the district judge in New York for a removal he
held that the indictment was not conclusive, and sent the case
back to the commissioner. Thereupon testimony was offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

before the commissioner, who found that there was probable
cause to believe the defendants guilty, and upon his report the
district judge ordered a removal. We held that under the
circumstances it was not necessary to determine the sufficiency of the indictment as evidence of the existence of probable cause, and that as the district judge found that probable
cause was shown, it was enough to justify a removal.
It is further contended that"There was no jurisdiction to apprehend the accused, because the complaint on removal was jurisdicti6nally defective,
in that it was made entirely upon information, without alleging
a sufficient or competent source of the affiant's information
and ground for. his belief, and without assigning any reason
why the affidavit of the person or persons having knowledge
of the facts alleged was not secured."
This contention cannot be sustained. The complaint alleges on information and belief that Beavers was an officer of
the government of the United States in the office of the First
Assistant-Postmaster General of the United States; that as
such officer he was charged with the consideration of allowances
for expenditures and with the procuring of contracts with and
from persons proposing to furnish supplies to the said Post
Office Department; that he made a fraudulent agreement with
the Edward J. Brandt-Dent Company for the purchase of
automatic cashiers for the Post Office Department and received pay therefor; that an indictment had been found by the
grand jury of the Eastern District, a warrant issued and returned "not found," and that the defendant was within the
Southern District of New York. This complaint was supported
by affidavit, in which it was said:
"Deponent further says that the sources of his information
are the official documents with reference to the making of the
said contract and the said transactions on file in the records of
the United States of America and in the Post Office Department thereof and letters and communications from the Edward
J. Brandt-Dent Company with reference to the said contract,

BEAVERS v. HFlNKEL.
194 It. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and from the indictment, a certified copy of which is referred
to in said affidavit as Exhibit A, and'the bench warrant therein
referred to as Exhibit B, and from personal conversations with
the parties who had the various transactions with the said
George W. Beavers in relation thereto; and that his information as to the whereabouts of the said George W. Beavers is
derived from a conversation had witl the said George W.
Beavers in said Southern District of New York in the past few
days and from the certificate of the United States marshal for
the Eastern District of New York, endorsed on said warrant."
This disclosure of the sources of information was sufficient.
In Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S.371, a case of extradition to a foreign country in which the complaint was made upon infornmation and belief, we said (p. 375):
"If the officer of the foreign government has no personal
knowledge of the facts, he may with entire propriety make the
complaint upon information and belief, stating the sources of
his information and the grounds of his belief, and annexing to
the complaint a properly certified copy of any indictment or
equivalent proceeding, which may have been found in the
foreign country, or a copy of the depositions of witnesses
having actual knowledge of the facts, taken under the treaty
and act of Congress. This will afford ample authority to the
commissioner for issuing the warrant."
The indictment alone was, as we have seen, a showing of
probable cause sufficient to justify the issue of a warrant.
With reference to other questions we remark that, so far as
respects technical objections, the sufficiency of the indictment
is to be determined by the court in which it was found and is
not a matter of inquiry in removal proceedings, (Greene v.
Henkcel, supra,) that the defendant has there no right to an
investigation of the proceedings before the grand jury, or an
-inquiry concerning what testimony was presented to or what
witnesses were heard by that body. In other words, he may
_not impeach an indictment by evidence tending to show that
the grand-jury did not have testimony before it sufficient to

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

justify its action. Such seems to have been the purpose of
most, if not all, of the testimony offered by the petitioner in
this case. As his counsel stated during the progress of the
examination before the commissioner: "We hold that we have,
an absolute right in a proper proceeding to expose what took
place before the grand jury. We don't do it at all in order to
make a disclosure of what transpired before a secret body.
We do propose to show what transpired before that grand jury
so as to show that there was not any evidence upon which thai
body could have found an indictment, a legal, valid, lawful
indictment, against George W. Beavers. We have no other
purpose in calling this witness or any olher witnegs who ,.ppeared before the grand jury." But the sufliciericy of an
indictment as evidence of probable cause in removal prooeedings cannot be impeached (if impeachable at all) in any such
manner. Neither can a defendant in this way ascertain what
testimony the government may have against him and thus
prepare the way for his defence. There are no other questions
that seem to us to require notice.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
AJirmed.

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT

OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 372. Argued March 10, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Contemporaneous construction is a rule of interpretation but it is not an
absolute one and does not preclude an inquiry by the courts as to the
original correctness of such construction. A custom of a department of
the Government, however long continued by successive officers, must
yield to the positive language of the statute.
Periodical publications as defined in the Post Office bill of March 3, 1879,
do not include books complete in themselves and which have no connection with each other, simply because they are serially issued at stated
intervals more than four times a year, bound in paper, bear dates of
issue and numbered consecutively; and the Postmaster General can ex-

