HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S:

Syllabus.

Courts of Appeals within whose jurisdiction they happened
to be.
We think the law should be taken as it is written, .and perceive no adequate reason for concluding that the real intention of Congress is not expressed in the language used. Congress may well have believed it wisest that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals should deal in this summary way with questions
of law arising in the progress of bankruptcy proceedings, in
the territorial courts, although jurisdiction by appeal or writ
of error, and by appeal, as provided, was vested in the Supreme Courts of the Territories.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fift Circuit has
announced the same conclusion, In re Seebold, 105 Fed. Rep.
910, 914, as has the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, Ex parte
Stumpff, 9 Oklahoma, 639. A different view appears to have
been entertained by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in In re Blair, 106 Fed. Rep. 662, though apparently the case did not necessarily require the precise question to be passed on.
Question answered in the affirmative.

J. RIBAS

y

HiIJO v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT
No. 151.

OF PORTO RICO.

Submitted April 28, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Under § 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, this court can review on writ of
error a final judgment of the District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico, where the amount in dispute exceeds $5,000, and a final judgment
in a like case in the Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the United
States could be reviewed by this court.
An action which could be brought under the Tucker Act against the United
States in either a District or a Circuit Court of the United States is within
the cognizance of the District Court of the United States of Porto Rico.
Quere, and not decided, whether a foreign corporation can maintaia any

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. G.

action under the Tucker Act in any court in view of the provisions of the
act that the petition must be filtd in the District where the plaintiff
resides.
The seizure and detention by the military and naval forces of the United
States during the war with Spain, of a vessel owned by Spanish subjects,
was a seizure of enemy's property and an act of war within the limits of
military operations, although the owners were not directly connected
with military operations, and a claim for damages for such seizure and
detention is not founded on the Constitution of the United States, or on
any act of Congress, or regulation of an Executive Department, or on
any contract express or implied, and an action based thereon is not sanctioned by the Tucker Act and cannot be maintained thereunder.
The fact that the vessel was retained pending negotiations for a treaty of
peace and during a cessation of hostilities does not connect the original
seizure with an implied contract to compensate the owners for the detention of the vessel.
If the owners had any claim against the United States it was relinquished
by the stipulation in the treaty, of peace relinquishing claims, such stipulation covering all claims arising prior to the exchange of ratifications
of the treaty.
In case of a conflict between a statute and treaty the one last in date prevails.

Tins action was brought against the United States by
J. Ribas y Hijo, a Spanish corporation, to recover the sum
of ten thousand dollars as the value of the use of a certain
merchant vessel taken by the United States in the Port of
Ponce, Porto Rico, when that city was captured by the United
States Army and Navy on July 28, 1898.
The vessel was kept and used by the Quartermaster's Department of the Army until some time in April, 1899, when
the War Department ordered its return to the owner, if all
claim for use or damage for detention should be waived.
Such conditional return was refused by the captain who
claimed to be a part owner and with his crew he left the vessel.
Subsequently the consignees of the vessel were notified that
it was at their disposal; that the Government was about to
discharge those having it in care; and they were requested
to put some one in control of it. This they declined to do,
and the vessel was abandoned and in August, 1899, was
wrecked in a hurricane.
The vessel was never in naval custody nor condemned as

HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

prize. When seized it was a Spanish vessel, carried the Spanish flag, and its owner, captain and crew were all Spanish
subjects. It did not come within any of the declared exemptions from seizure set forth in the Proclamation of the President of April 26, 1898. 30 Stat. 1770. A claim filed in the
War Department in February, 1900, for its use was rejected.
Such being the facts found, the court below, upon final
hearing, dismissed the action upon the general ground that
the vessel was properly seized as enemy's property, and its
use was by the war power for war purposes.
A rehearing was asked and was denied, the court saying:
"A rehearing is asked upon the ground that the court has
found as a matter of fact that the use continued until in Api
1899, and, as the protocol, followed by the President's proclamation, was dated August 12, 1898, the complainants should
recover on a quantum meruit the value of the use of the vessel
between those dates. This was a seizure in time of war, and
not in time of peace. It was, as has been said, a special case
arising from the necessary operation of war, and the war
power of the Government concluded it was necessary to take
and use the property. Even conceding that the seizure did
not terminate all right of the Spanish owner in the property,
or to any use of it, yet the protocol and proclamation did not
end the war. The protocol worked a mere truce. The President had not the power to terminate the war by treaty without the advice or consent of the Senate of the United States.
If a treaty be silent as to when it is to become effective, the
weight of authority is that it does not become so until ratified,
and this was not done until In April, 1899, and the war did
not end by treaty until then, and all the use made by the
Government of the vessel was Justified by the rules of law
and international law without compensation."
Mr. Charles M. Boerman for appellant:

It is an undisputed rule of modern international law,
European and American alike, that the private property

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for the United States.

194 U. S.

of the citizens of an invaded territory of the enemy cannot
be taken without compensation. Halleck's Int. Law, vol. II,
ch. XXI, § 12; Bluntschli's Codified Int. Law, introduction,
and §655; Theo. D. Woolsey's Introduction to Int. Law, § 130;
Freeman Snow, Int. Law, § 51; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2
Wall. 404; General Order, No. 100, § 38; Lawrence's Int.
Law, § 66; Dana's Wheaton, § 16; Glenn's Int. Law, appendix;
General Order, 101, July 13, 1898.
In view of definite instructions to the United States armies not
to seize private property without compensation there can be no
doubt that in the seizure and use of appellant's vessel there was
implied a contract in fact that the United States would pay a
just compensation for the use of the vessel. See also Lawrence's
Wheaton, Part 4, ch. II, § 7; Taylor's Int. Law, §§ 536, 538;
Fiore, Public Int. Law, § 1506 (Italian); Frederic II, Oeuvres,
vol.28, p. 91; Bluntschli, Moderne Kriege (German), §§ 152,157.
The only exception to the foregoing rule is that an army
during a war may take or destroy property of private citizens,
in case of immediate necessity for or on the field of battle,
encampment or marches or for battle or siege.
A protocol containing the preliminaries of peace and a
stipulation of cessation of hostilities puts an end to the right
of confiscation even for so-called necessities of war. Bluntschli,
§705; Woolsey, § 150.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for the United
States:
The trial court had no jurisdiction.
The plaintiff did not reside ill the District of Porto Rico.
Such residence was necessary under section 5 of the Tucker
Act to give the trial court jurisdiction.
Plaintiff's claim is not such as would entitle it to redress
in a court of law, equity or admiralty.
There fias no contract, either express or implied, between
the United States and the plaintiff. Any possible action would
sound in tort. Gorch v. United States, 15 C. Cl. 281, 287.

HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The vessel was rightly treated as property of a subject
of
the enemy upon the high seas and the seizure was justifiable.
It was taken for government use. Section 4624, Rev. Stat.,
and arts. 46-50, Am. Naval Code, render action by a prize
court in such cases unnecessary, nor is such adjudication to
vest title in the captors required by international law, and the
return of the vessel before condemnation ought not to be
complained of. If the vessel. had been destroyed its owner
certainly could not have recovered its value. The Manila
Prize Cases, 188 U. S. 254; United States v. Ross, 1 Gall. 624;
Hall's Int. Law, §§ 143, 148, 150; Halleck, Int. Law, p. 758,
§ 13; Dana's Wheaton, § 388, note; Wharton, Int. L. Dig.
§ 328; Jecker v. Montgomery, 18 How. 110, 123; The Siren, 13
Wall. 389, 394.
If the seizure was upon land, it was justifiable upon the
ground of military necessity.
The general rule is that private property on land may be
taken when it is directly useful for military purposes. It
should not be seized for the mere sake of gain or to increase
the wealth of the country. Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall.
404,. 419; Taylor v. Nashville &c. R. R. Co., 6 Coldw.
(Tenn.) 646; S. C., 98 Am. Dee, 474; Oakes v. United States,
174 U. S. 778; 786; Cook v. Howard, 13 Johns. (N. Y.) 275,
282.
Gen. Orders, No. 101, quoted by counsel for appellant, has
no application to the present case. It was made for the government of the military authorities in Cuba. Rept. of War
Dept., 1898, vol. 1, pt. 1, p. 125.
The military 'authorities in Porto Rico were acting under
General Orders, No. 100. See § 37.
Any possible claim was relinquished by Art. VII of the
Treaty of Peace.
The first part of this section fairly states the rule of international law which would control had no such express stipulation been made. Halleck's Int. Law, p. 851; Baker's Int.
Law, p. 113; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 189, 229; Gray, Admnr., v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

United States, 21 C. Cl. 340, 392; United States v. Mining Co.,
29 C. Cl. 432, 512.
By the protocol there was a mere suspension of hostilities
(Art. VI). It was only a stej in the effort to arrive at an
agreement for peace. In effect, it was a truce. The object
being temporary, everything in the end should be in the same
position as at the beginning. The meaning of every such
compact is that all things should remain as they were at the
moment of its consummation. 1 Kent's Comm. 159,161; Vattel, b. 3, ch. 16, §§ 233-238; Taylor's Int. Law, § 513.
This vessel was taken before the truce was declared. Its
retention during the existence of the truce was entirely proper.
The Government by thus retaining it incurred no new obligation, and as no liability existed prior thereto plaintiff's claim
is without merit.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
1. By the 35th section of the act of Congress of April 12,
1900, c. 191, temporarily providing revenues and civil government for Porto Rico, it was declared that "writs of error and
appeals from the final decisions of the Supreme Court of Porto
Rico and the District Court of the United States shall be
allowed and may be taken to the Supreme Court of the United
States in the same manner and under the same regulations
and in the same cases as from the Supreme Courts of the
Territories of the United States; and such writs of error and
appeals shall be allowed in all cdses where the Constitution of
the United States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of Congress
is brought in question and the right claimed thereunder is
denied; . . ." As the value of the matter here in dispute
exceeds the sum of five thousand dollars, and as the final
judgment, in a like case in the Supreme Court of one of the
Territories of the United States, could be reexamined here,
we have jurisdiction of the present appeal from the Dis-

HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court of the United States for Porto Rico. 23 Stat.
443, c. 355; 31 Stat. 85, c. 191, §§ 34, 35; Royal Insurance Co.
v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149.
2. This .action, we have seen, was brought to recover the
value of the use of a vessel belonging to Spanish subjects and
taken by our Army and Navy during the war with Spain, and
used by the Quartermaster's Department of the Army.
By the above act of April 12, 1900, the court below was
given, "in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of District
Courts of the United States, jurisdiction of all cases cognizant
in the Circuit Courts of the United States, and shall proceed
in the same manner as a Circuit Court." 31 Stat. 85, c. 191,
§ 34. If, therefore, this action could have been brought in
a Circuit Court of the United States, it was within the cognizance of the court below. We must, then, look to the act of
March 3, 1887, commonly known as the Tucker Act, and
which provides for the bringing of suits against the Government of the United States. 24 Stat. 505, c. 359.
By the first section of that act it is provided that the Court
of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine "all
claims founded upon the Constitution of the United States
or any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any
regulation of an Executive Department, or upon any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases
not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party.
would be entitled to redress against the United States either
in a court of law, equity or admiralty if the United States
were suable. . . ." The second section provides that "the
District Courts of the United States shall have concurrent
jurisdiction with the Court of Claims as to all matters named
in the preceding section where the amount of the claim does
not exceed one thousand dollars, and the Circuit Courts of
the United States shall have such concurrent jurisdiction in all
cases where the amount of such claim exceeds one thousand
dollars and does not exceed ten thousand dollars." The fifth
VOL. cxciv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

section is in these words: "That the plaintiff in any suit brought
under the provisions of the second section of this act shall file
a petition, duly verified with the clerk of the respective court
having jurisdiction of the case, and in 'the district where the
plaintiff resides. Such petition shall set forth the full name
and residence of the plaintiff, the. nature of his claim, and a
succinct statement of the facts upon which the claim is based,
the money or any other thing claimed, or the damages sought
to Be recovered and praying the court for a judgment or decree
upon the facts and law."
The Government insists that the requirement in that act,
that the petition shall be filed "in the district where the plaintiff resides," precludes a suit against the United States by any
person, natural or corporate, residing out of the country. We
express no opinion upon that question, as there are other
grounds upon which-we may satisfactorily rest our decision.
The present suit finds no sanction in the above act even if
the plaintiff were not a foreign corporation. Its claim is not
founded on the Constitution of the United States, or on any
act of Congress, or on any regulation of an Executive Department. Nor can it be said to be founded on contract,
express or implied. There is no element of contract in the
case; for nothing was done by the United States, nor anything
said by any of its officers, from which could be implied an
agreement or obligation to pay for the use of the plaintiff's
vessel. According to the established principles of public law,
the owners of the vessel, being Spanish subjects, were to be
deemed enemies, although not directly donnected with military
operations. The vessel was therefore to be deemed enemy's
property.- It was seized as property of that kind, for purposes of war, and not for any purposes of gain. The case does
not come within the principle announced in United States v.
Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.645, 656, where'this court said
that "the United States, having by its agents, proceeding
under the authority of an act of Congress, taken the property
of claimant for public use, are under an obligation, imposed

HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Constitution, to make compensation. The law will
imply a promise to make the required compensation where
property, to which the Government asserts no title, is taken
pursuant to an act of Congress as private property to be applied for public uses. Such an implication being consistent
with the constitutional duty of the Government, as well as
with common justice, the claimant's cause of action is one that
arises out of implied contract within the meaning of the statute
which. confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims of actions
founded 'upon any contract, express or implied, with the
Government of the United States.' " The seizure, which
occurred while the war was flagrant, was an act of war occurring within the limits of military operations. The action, in
its essence, is for the recovery of damages, but as the case is
one sounding in tort, no suit for damages can be maintained
under the statute against the United States. It is none the
less a case sounding in tort because the claim is in form for the
use of the vessel after actual hostilities were suspended by the
protocol of August 12, 1898. A state of war did not in law
cease until the ratification in April, 1899, of the treaty of peace.
"A truce or suspension of armies," says Kenf, "does not
terminate the war, but it is -one of the' commercia belli which
suspends its operations. . . . At the expiration of the
truce, hostilities may recommence without any fresh declaration of war." ' 1 Kent, 159, 161. If the original seizure made
a case sounding in tort, as it undoubtedly did, the transaction
was not converted into one of implied contract because of the
retention and use of -the vessel pending negotiations for a treaty
of peace. Besides, the treaty of peace between the two countries provided that "the United States and Spain mutually
relinquish all claims for indemnity, national and individual, of
every kind, of either Government, or of its citizens or subjects,
against the other Govermnent, that may have arisen since the
beginning of the late insurrection in Cuba and prior to the
exchange of ratifications of the present treaty, including all
claims for indemnity for the cost of the war. The United

OCTOBER TERMA,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

States will adjudicate and settle the claims of its citizens
against Spain relinquished in this article." This stipulation
clearly embraces the claim of the plaintiff-its claim against
the United States for indemnity having arisen prior to the
exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace with Spain.
We may add that even if the act of March, 1887, standing
alone, could be construed as authorizing a suit of this kind,
the plaintiff must fail; for, it is well settled that in case of a
conflict between an act of Congress and a treaty-each being
equally the supreme law of the land-the one last in date
must prevail in the courts. The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall.
616, 621; Whitney v. Robertson, .124 U. S. 190, 194; United
States v. Lee Yen Tai, 185 U. S. 213, 221.
It results that the judgment below dismissing the action
must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

BESSETTE v. W. B. CONKEY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

No. 142.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 7, 8,1904.-Decided May 16,1904.

A contempt proceeding is sui generis, in its nature criminal, yet may be
resorted to in civil as Well as criminal actions and also independently of
any action. The purpose of contempt proceedings is to uphold the power
of the court, and also to secure suitors therein the rights by it awarded.
The power to punish for contempt is inherent in all courts.
Under § 6 of the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, a Circuit Court of Appeals
has jurisdiction to review a judgmeht of the District or Circuit Court
finding a person guilty of contempt for violation of its order and imposing a fine for the contempt.
If the person adjudged in contempt and fined therefor is not a party to the
suit in which the order is made he can bring the matter to the Circuit
Court of Appeals by writ of error but not by appeal.

THIS case is before us on questions certified by the Circuit

Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The facts as stated
are that on August24, 1901, the W. B Conkey Company filed

