OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS
REYNOLDS v. INTERNATIONAL AMATEUR
ATHLETIC FEDERATION ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-954. Decided June 20, 1992
The request of applicant Reynolds is granted to stay a Court of Appeals'
order staying a preliminary injunction which barred The Athletic Congress of the U. S. A., Inc., and the International Amateur Athletic Federation from impeding or interfering with Reynolds' ability to compete
in the 1992 United States Olympic Trials. The District Court's opinion

on the issue whether Reynolds has established a probability of success
on the merits is persuasive. With respect to whether the availability
of a damages remedy precludes a finding of irreparable harm, a decent
respect for the incomparable importance of winning an Olympic gold

medal demonstrates that a pecuniary award is not an adequate substitute for the intangible values for which the world's greatest athletes
compete.

Justice.
On June 19, 1992, the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio entered a preliminary injunction
barring The Athletic Congress of the U. S. A., Inc., and the
International Amateur Athletic Federation (IAAF) from impeding or interfering with Harry L. Reynolds, Jr.'s, ability
to compete in the 1992 United States Olympic Trials. Later
that day, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit issued an order staying the preliminary injunction.
Mr. Reynolds has applied to me in my capacity as a Circuit
Justice for a stay of the order of the Court of Appeals.
In my opinion, the IAAF's threatened harm to third parties cannot dictate the proper disposition of applicant's claim.
The dispositive questions for me are, first, whether applicant
JUSTICE STEVENS, Circuit

1301

1302

REYNOLDS v. INTERNATIONAL AMATEUR
ATHLETIC FEDERATION
Opinion in Chambers

has established a probability of success on the merits, and
second, whether the availability of a damages remedy precludes a finding of irreparable harm. With respect to the
first, I find the District Court's opinion persuasive. With
respect to the second, a decent respect for the incomparable
importance of winning a gold medal in the Olympic Games
convinces me that a pecuniary award is not an adequate substitute for the intangible values for which the world's greatest athletes compete.
Of course, I recognize that this ruling may not establish
applicant's right to compete in the Olympics at Barcelona,
but that opportunity will presumably be foreclosed if he is
not allowed to participate in the Olympic Trials. On the
other hand, the harm, if any, to the IAAF can be fully cured
by a fair and objective determination of the merits of the
controversy. Indeed, applicant may fail to qualify, thus
mooting the entire matter; if he does qualify, his eligibility
can be reviewed before the final event in Barcelona.
The IAAF's threat to enforce its eligibility decision-no
matter how arbitrary or erroneous it may be-by punishing
innocent third parties cannot be permitted to influence a fair
and impartial adjudication of the merits of applicant's claims.
The application for a stay is granted.

