430

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

purpose of the Act to promote the interests of domestic oil
producers through an excise tax.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST CIRCUIT, OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 29.

Submitted October 20, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.

1. Since each of the States of the Union has constitutional authority
to make its own law with respect to persons and events within its
borders, the full faith and credit clause does not ordinarily require
it to substitute for its own local law the conflicting law of another
State, even though that law is of controlling force in the courts of
that State with respect to the same persons and events. P. 436.
2. Under the full faith and credit clause, judgments are, for most
purposes, upon a footing different from the local law of a State,
when judicial recognition of either is sought in another State.
P. 437.
3. With few exceptions, the full faith and credit clause renders that
which has been adjudicated in one State res judicata to the same
extent in every other. P. 438.
When a state court refuses credit to the judgment of a sister
State, an asserted federal right is denied and the sufficiency of the
grounds of denial are for this Court to determine. P. 443.
These results flow from the unifying purpose of the full faith and
credit clause to give nation-wide effect to rights judicially established in any part of the nation. P. 439.
4. Respondent, resident in Louisiana and there employed by petitioner, was injured in Texas in the course of his employment.
Respondent sought and was awarded compensation under the
Texas Workmen's Compensation Law. Payments were made as
required by the award, which became final. In Texas, a compensation award which has become final is res judicata, and
is entitled to the same faith and credit as a judgment of a
court, and an award may not be had when an employee has

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 431
430

Counsel for Parties.

sought and received for his injury compensation under the laws of
another State. Respondent later brought suit in a Louisiana court
for a further recovery under the Louisiana Workmen's Compensation Law, and obtained a judgment against the employer for the
amount of compensation fixed by that law, less the amount received
under the Texas award. Held:
(1) Under the full faith and credit clause, the Texas compensation award was a bar to recovery in the Louisiana proceeding.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, followed.
P.441.
(2) The interest of Louisiana in awarding compensation to Louisiana employees who are injured out of the State-vis--vis the
interest of Texas in awarding compensation for an injury occurring
within its borders-is not sufficient to permit it to ignore the bar of
the Texas award. P. 440.
(3) The liability established by the Louisiana judgment is not
reconcilable with the rights conferred on the employer by the Texas
award and the full faith and credit clause. P. 442.
(4) Whether the proceeding before the Texas board be regarded
as a "judicial proceeding" or its award is a "record" within the
meaning of the full faith and credit clause and the Act of Congress
implementing it, both judicial proceedings and records are required
to be given full faith and credit. P. 443.
(5) The suggestion that the Texas award does not bar the recovery
in Louisiana because the employee's suit there was on a different
cause of action is untenable. P. 443.
It is unnecessary to decide what effect would be required to be
given to the Texas award if under Texas law an award of compensation in another State would not bar an award in Texas. P. 443.
10 So. 2d 109, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

319 U. S. 734, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the plaintiff in a suit by an employee against
an employer to recover compensation for an injury received
in the course of the employment. The highest court of
the State refused writs of certiorari and review.
Messrs. Cullen R. Liskow and Homer Hendricks submitted for petitioner.
Sullivan H. Hunt, pro se.

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF .JUSTICE STONE

320 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether, under the full
faith and credit clause, Art. IV, § 1 of the Constitution of
the United States, an award of compensation for personal
injury under the Texas Workmen's Compensation Law,
Title 130 of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, bars a
further recovery of compensation for the same injury
under the Louisiana Workmen's Compensation Law, Title
34, Chapter 15 of the Louisiana General Statutes.
Magnolia Petroleum Company, petitioner here, employed respondent in Louisiana as a laborer in connection
with the drilling of oil wells. In the course of his employment respondent, a Louisiana resident, went from
Louisiana to Texas, and while working there for petitioner on an oil well, he was injured by a falling drill stem.
He sought and procured in Texas an award of compensation for his injury under its Workmen's Compensation
Law,1 and petitioner's insurer made payments of compenAn employer becomes subject to the Act by becoming a subscriber
under it by giving notice to the Industrial Accident Board (Texas
Rev. Civ. Stat., Title 130, Art. 8308, § 18 a) and providing insurance
required by the Act (Art. 8308). If an employee of a subscriber
sustains an injury in the course of his employment, he is entitled to
compensation without regard to the fault of the employer (Art. 8306,
§ 3 b), unless he has given timely notice of his intention not to waive
his rights of action at common law and under other statutes of Texas.
In that event he may sue for the remedies which they afford (Art.
8306, § 3 a). Employees of non-subscribers are not entitled to
workmen's compensation, but may sue to recover for injuries received
in the course of their employment without being subject to certain
common law defenses (Art. 8306, §§ 1, 4). When an employee is
entitled to compensation, he has no other right of action against the
employer for injuries (Art. 8306, § 3).
The statute specifies the amounts of compensation, including expenses, payable for various injuries (Art. 8306, §§ 6-18). It provides
that awards are to be made in the first instance by the Industrial

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 433
430

Opinion of the Court.

sation as required by the statute and the award. The
award became final in accordance with the terms of the
Texas statute.'
Respondent then brought the present proceeding in
the Louisiana District Court to recover compensation for
his injury under the Louisiana Workmen's Compensation
Law." Petitioner filed exceptions to respondent's petition
Accident Board (Art. 8307). In order to obtain a review of an award,
a party must within 20 days give notice that he will not abide by it
and within 20 days after giving notice, must file suit in an appropriate
court (Art. 8307, § 5). In such a suit the trial is de novo (id.). If
no such notice is given, or no such suit is filed within the times prescribed, the award becomes final (id.).
2Respondent filed with the Texas Industrial Accident Board a claim
for compensation for his injury under the Texas Workmen's Compensation Law, as is the usual method of instituting a proceeding before the
Board. Without awaiting an award on respondent's claim petitioner's
insurer paid respondent compensation for his injury at the statutory
maximum rate for seventy-three weeks. A dispute as to the proper
prognosis of respondent's injury, a request for advice made by respondent to the Board, and a suspension by the insurer of further
compensation payments to respondent, on the ground that his total
disability had terminated, all prompted the Board to set the case for
a hearing on his pending claim. Respondent received notice of the
hearing and was requested to furnish medical evidence of his continued
disability. Upon his failure to do this, the Board entered on December
3, 1940, as the full compensation for his injury, an award of a lump
sum for total disability for 75 weeks and of weekly payments for partial
disability for a further period of 125 weeks, and directed that payments
already made by the insurer be credited upon the award. Respondent
was notified as to the appeal he was required to take if he was dissatisfied with the award. No appeal was taken, and the award became
final. Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 8307, § 5. Respondent has refused
payments which have been tendered to him subsequent to the making
of the Texas award. On December 18, 1940, he began the present suit
in Louisiana.
aThe statute is applicable to all employees in certain specified
hazardous occupations (including the work performed by respondent),
and to employees in other occupations by voluntary contract between

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

on the ground that the recovery sought was barred as res
judicata by the Texas award which, by virtue of the constitutional command, was entitled in the Louisiana courts
to full faith and credit. The District Court overruled the
exceptions and gave judgment for the amount of the compensation fixed by the Louisiana statute, after deducting
the amount of the Texas payments. The Louisiana Court
of Appeal affirmed, 10 So. 2d 109, and the Supreme Court
of Louisiana refused writs of certiorari and review for the
reason that it found "no error of law in the judgment complained of." We granted certiorari, 319 U. S. 734, because of the importance of the constitutional question
presented and to resolve an apparent conflict of the decision below with our decisions in Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.
Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, and Williams v. North
Carolina, 317 U. S. 287; cf. Alaska Packers Assn. v.
Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U. S. 532; Pacific
Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306
U. S. 493.
In Texas a compensation award against the employer's
insurer (with exceptions not here applicable, cf. Revised
the employer and the employee. La. Gen. Stat., Title 34, Ch. 15,
§ 4391. Such employees as receive injuries in the course of their
employment are entitled to compensation (§ 4392) in specified amounts
( 4398), unless the contract of employment provides otherwise
(9 4393), whether the injury is or is not due to the fault of the employer
(§ 4427). If the employee elects to be covered under the Act, but the
employer elects not to be, then in suits by the employee to recover
for injuries received in the course of his employment, certain common
law defenses are abolished (Q4394). The compensation award may
be fixed by agreement of the parties (§ 4407), or may be obtained by
suit in the district court (§ 4408), with right of appeal to the appropriate
appellate courts (Q4409). And as in the present case, the statute is
deemed under some circumstances to be applicable to injuries received
by the employee without the state. Hargia v. McWilliams Co., 9 La.
App. 108, 119 So. 88; Selser v. Bragmans Bluff Lumber Co., 146 So.
690 (La. App.).

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 435
430

Opinion of the Court.

Civil Statutes, Art. 8306, § 5) is explicitly made by statute
in lieu of any other recovery for injury to the employee,
since Art. 8306, § 3 provides that employees subject to
the Act "shall have no right of action against their employer or against any agent, servant or employe of said
employer for damages for personal injuries . . . but such
employes . . . shall look for compensation solely to the
association [the insurer]." A compensation award which
has become final "is entitled to the same faith and credit
as a judgment of a court." See Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corp. v. Pruitt, 58 S. W. 2d 41, 44-45 (Tex. Comm.
App.), holding that an award is res judicata, not only as
to all matters litigated, but as to all matters which could
have been litigated in the proceeding with respect to the
right to compensation for the injury. To the same effect
are Traders& GeneralIns. Co. v. Baker, 111 S. W. 2d 837.
839, 840 (Tex. Comm. App.); Middlebrook v. Texas Indemnity Ins. Co., 112 S. W. 2d 311, 315 (Tex. Civ. App.);
cf. Federal Surety Co. v. Cook, 119 Tex. 89, 24 S. W. 2d
394. The Texas Court of Civil Appeals formerly held
that a Texas employee could recover compensation of his
Texas employer for an injury in another state for which
he had already recovered compensation in that state.
Texas Employers' Ins. Assn. v. Price, 300 S. W. 667. But
in declining to review the case, the Texas Supreme Court
expressly pointed out that this ruling had not been challenged, and that it was leaving the question undecided,
300 S. W. 672. The right of a second recovery in such
circumstances was promptly abolished by statute. Revised Civil Statutes, Art. 8306, § 19. And under this
statute a compensation award may not be had in Texas
if the employee has claimed and received compensation
for his injury under the laws of another state. Travelers
Insurance Co. v. Cason, 132 Tex. 3M3, 396, 124 S. W. 2d
321.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The Louisiana Court of Appeal recognized that Texas
had jurisdiction to award compensation to respondent for
the injury received while working for petitioner within
the state, and that the award has the same force and
effect in Texas as a judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction in that state. But it thought that full
faith and credit did not require the Louisiana courts to
give effect to the judgment as res judicata because Louisiana, despite the command of the full faith and credit
clause, was entitled to give effect to its own statute prescribing compensation for resident employees of a resident
employer even though the injury occurred outside the
state.
It does not appear, nor is it contended, that Louisiana
more than Texas allows in its own courts a second recovery
of compensation for a single injury. The contention is
that since Louisiana is better satisfied with the measure of
recovery allowed by its own laws, it may deny full faith and
credit to the Texas award, which respondent has procured
by his election to pursue his remedy in that state. In thus
refusing, on the basis of state law and policy, to give effect
to the Texas award as a final adjudication of respondent's
claim for compensation for his injury suffered in Texas, the
Louisiana court ignored the distinction, long recognized
and applied by this Court, and recently emphasized in
Williams v. North Carolina,supra, 294--296, between the
faith and credit required to be given to judgments and that
to which local common and statutory law is entitled under
hte Constitution and laws of the United States.
In the case of local law, since each of the states of the
Union has constitutional authority to make its own law
with respect to persons and events within its borders, the
full faith and credit clause does not ordinarily require it to
substitute for its oin law the conflicting law of another
state, even though that law is of controlling force in the
courts of that state with respect to the same persons and

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 437
430

Opinion of the Court.

events. Pink v. A. A. A. Highway Express, 314 U. S.201,
209-211 and cases cited; Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313
U. S. 487, 496-498. It was for this reason that we held
that the state of the employer and employee is free to
apply its own compensation law to the injury of the employee rather than the law of another state where the
injury occurred. Alaska Packers Assn. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra, 544-550. And for like reasons we
held also that the state of the place of injury is free to
apply its own law to the exclusion of the law of the state
of the employer and employee. Pacific Employers Ins.
Co. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra,502-505.
But it does not follow that the employee who has sought
and recovered an award of compensation in either state
may then have recourse to the laws and courts of the other
to recover a second or additional award for the same injury. Where a court must make choice of one of two
conflicting statutes of different states and apply it to a
cause of action which has not been previously litigated,
there can be no plea of res judicata. But when the employee who has recovered compensation for his injury in
one state seeks a second recovery in another he may be met
by the plea that full faith and credit requires that his
demand, which has become res judicata in one state, must
be recognized as such in every other.
The full faith and credit clause and the Act of Congress
implementing it have, for most purposes, placed a judgment on a different footing from a statute of one state, judicial recognition of which is sought in another. Article
IV, § 1, of the Constitution commands that "Full Faith
and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts,
Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State,"
and provides that "Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records, and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof." And
Congress has provided that judgments "shall have such

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

faith and credit given to them in every court within the
United States as they have by law or usage in the courts
of the State from which they are taken." Act of May 26,
1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122, as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 687.
From the beginning this Court has held that these provisions have made that which has been adjudicated in one
state res judicata to the same extent in every other.
Hampton v. McConnell, 3 Wheat. 234, 235; Christmas v.
Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S.230;
Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S. 411; Milwaukee
County v. White Co., 296 U. S.268; Davis v. Davis, 305
U. S.32,40; Titus v. Wallick, 306 U. S.282, 291-292; Williams v. North Carolina,supra. Even though we assume
for present purposes that the command of the Constitution and the statute is not all-embracing, and that there
may be exceptional cases in which the judgment of one
state may not override the laws and policy of another,"
this Court is the final arbiter of the extent of the excepAlaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident
tions.
Comm'n, supra, 547; Titus v. Wallick, supra, 291. And
we pointed out in Williams v. North Carolina,supra, 294295, that "the actual exceptions have been few and far
between ... "
We are aware of no such exception in the case of a money
judgment rendered in a civil suit. Nor are we aware of
any considerations of local policy or law which could
rightly be deemed to impair the force and effect which
the full faith and credit clause and the Act of Congress
require to be given to such a judgment outside the state
of its rendition. Milwaukee County v. White Co., supra,
277, 278.
4See,

e.g., Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Fall v. Eadtin, 215

U. S. 1; Olmsted v. Olmsted, 216 U. S. 386; Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243; Hood v. McGehee, 237 U. S. 611; Broderick v. Rosner,
294 U. S. 629, 642; cf. Wisconsin v. PelicanIns. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 293

with Milwaukee County v. White Co., supra, 278.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 439
430

Opinion of the Court.

The constitutional command requires a state to enforce
a judgment of a sister state for its taxes, Milwaukee
County v. White Co., supra, or for a gambling debt,
Fauntleroy v. Lum, supra, or for damages for wrongful
death, Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, supra, although the
suit in which the judgment was obtained could not have
been maintained under the laws and policy of the forum
to which the judgment is brought. It compels enforcement of a judgment in that forum, even though a suit
upon the original cause of action was barred there by
limitations before the judgment was procured, Christmas
v. Russell, supra; Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S. 449. It
demands recognition of it even though the statute on
which the judgment was founded need not be applied in
the state of the forum because in conflict with the laws
and policy of that state. Kenney v. Supreme Lodge,
supra; Titus v. Wallick, supra; Williams v. North Carolina, supra.
These consequences flow from the clear purpose of the
full faith and credit clause to establish throughout the
federal system the salutary principle of the common
law that a litigation once pursued to judgment shall be
as conclusive of the rights of the parties in every other
court as in that where the judgment was rendered, so that
a cause of action merged in a judgment in one state is
likewise merged in every other. The full faith and credit
clause like the commerce clause thus became a nationally
unifying force. It altered the status of the several states
as independent foreign sovereignties, each free to ignore
rights and obligations created under the laws or established by the judicial proceedings of the others, by making
each an integral part of a single nation, in which rights
judicially established in any part are given nation-wide
application. Milwaukee County v. White Co., supra,
276, 277; Williams v. North Carolina, supra, 295. Because there is a full faith and credit clause a defendant

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

may not a second time challenge the validity of the plaintiff's right which has ripened into a judgment and a plaintiff may not for his single cause of action secure a second
or a greater recovery.
Here both Texas and Louisiana have undertaken to
adjudicate the rights of the same parties arising from a
single injury sustained in the course of employment under
the same contract. Each state has awarded to respondent compensation for that injury. But whether the Texas
award purported also to adjudicate the rights and duties
of the parties under the Louisiana law or to control persons and courts in Louisiana is irrelevant to our present
inquiry. For Texas is without power to give extraterritorial effect to its laws. See New York Life Insurance
Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149; Home Insurance Co. v. Dick,
281 U. S. 397. The significant question in this case is
whether the full faith and credit clause has deprived
Louisiana of the power to deny that the Texas award has
the same bihding effect on the parties in Louisiana as it
has in Texas.
It is not, as the state court thought, a sufficient answer
to the bar of the Texas award to assert that Louisiana has
a recognized interest in awarding compensation to Louisiana employees who are injured out of the state, see Alaska
Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, supra, for
Texas, the state in which the injury occurred, has a like
interest in making an award, see Pacific Employers Ins.
Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, supra. And in each
of the cases we have cited, the state to which the judg.
ment was brought had an interest in the subject matter
of the suit and a public policy contrary to that of the state
in which the judgment was obtained. No convincing
reason is advanced for saying that Louisiana has a greater
interest in awarding compensation for an injury suffered
in an industrial accident, than North Carolina had in

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT.
430

441

Opinion of the Court.

determining the marital status of its domiciliary against
whom a divorce decree had been rendered in another state,
Williams v. North Carolina, supra, or Mississippi in
stamping out gambling within its borders, Fauntleroy v.
Lum, supra, or South Carolina in requiring a parent to
support his child who was domiciled within that state,
Yarborough v. Yarborough, 290 U. S. 202.
In each of these cases the words and purpose of the full
faith and credit clause were thought to demand that the
interest of the state in which the judgment was obtained
and was res judicata, should override the laws and policy
of the forum to which the judgment was taken. And we
can perceive no tenable ground for saying that a compensation award need not be given the same effect as res judicata in another state as it has in the state where rendered.'
5 But cf. American Law Institute, Restatement of Conflict of Laws

(1934) § 403:
"Award already had under the Workmen's Compensation Act of
another state will not bar a proceeding under an applicable Act, but

the amount paid on a prior award in another state will be credited on
the second award."
This would seem to be intended as nothing more than a statement of
local rules of conflict of laws when unaffected by the full faith and
credit clause, since full faith and credit, if it does not require that a
first award bar a second, would not compel credits upon the second
award of payments made under the first. If more was intended, the
statement is, as the Advisers to the American Law Institute stated,
"surprising." Proceedings of American Law Institute (1932) Vol. X,
p. 76. It is the more so as the statement would then conflict with
the ratio decidendi of Chicago, R. 1. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270
U. S. 611, which had been decided some six years before. Even as a
matter of local law while the decision of the state courts on this point
are in conflict, the following are contrary to the rule expressed in the
Restatement: Hughey v. Ware, 34 N. M. 29, 276 P. 27; Tidwell v.
ChattanoogaBoiler & T. Co., 163 Tenn. 420, 648, 43 S. W. 2d 221, 45
S. W. 2d 528; DeGray v. Miller Broa. Const. Co., 106 Vt. 259, 277-278,
173 A. 556.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Such was the decision of this Court in Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co. v. Schendel, supra, in which recovery of an award
of compensation under the Iowa Workmen's Compensation Act was held to bar recovery in a suit against the employer in Minnesota to recover for the same injury under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Both states had,
as in this case, allowed recovery, as they were free to do
but for the full faith and credit clause. This Court held
that the employee, having had his remedy by the judgment
in Iowa, was precluded by the full faith and credit clause
from pursuing a remedy for his injury in another state.
The remedies afforded to respondent by the Texas and
Louisiana Workmen's Compensation Laws are likewise
rendered mutually exclusive by the Texas judgment and
the full faith and credit clause. The Texas award, being
a bar to any further recovery of compensation for respondent's injury, is, by virtue of the full faith and credit clause,
exclusive of his remedy under the Louisiana Act.
It lends no support to the decision of the Louisiana court
in this case to say that Louisiana has chosen to be more
generous with an employee than Texas has. Indeed no
constitutional question would be presented if Louisiana
chose to be generous to the employee out of the general
funds in its Treasury. But here it is petitioner who is required to provide further payments to respondent, contrary to the terms of the Texas award, which, if the full
faith and credit clause is to be given any effect, was a conclusive determination between the parties that petitioner
should be liable for no more than the amount of the Texas
award. For this reason it is not enough to say that a practical reconciliation of the interests of Texas and Louisiana
has been effected by the Louisiana court. There has been
no reconciliation of the liability established by the Louisiana judgment with the rights conferred on petitioner by
the Texas award and the full faith and credit clause.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 443
430

Opinion of the Court.

Here the finding of the Louisiana court that the Texas
award had the force and effect of a judgment of a court of
that state and is res judicata there, is in conformity to the
determinations of the courts of Texas and has not been
challenged by the parties. We have no occasion to consider what effect would be required to be given to the Texas
award if the Texas courts held that an award of compensation in another state would not bar an award in Texas,
for as we have seen, Texas does not allow such a second recovery. And if the award of compensation in Texas were
not res judicata there, full faith and credit would, of
course, be no bar to the recovery of an award in another
state. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Elder, 270 U. S.
611, 622-623.
Whether the proceeding before the State Industrial
Accident Board in Texas be regarded as a "judicial proceeding," or its award is a "record" within the meaning of
the full faith and credit clause and the Act of Congress,
the result is the same. For judicial proceedings and records of the state are both required to have "such faith and
credit given to them in every court within the United
States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the
State from which they are taken."
The decision of the state court is not supported by the
suggestion that the Texas award is not res judicata in
Louisiana because respondent's suit there was on a different cause of action. When a state court refuses credit
to the judgment of a sister state because of its opinion of
the nature of the cause of action or the judgment in which
it is merged, an asserted federal right is denied and the
sufficiency of the grounds of denial are for this Court to
decide. Titus v. Wallick, supra, 291 and cases cited; and
see Adam v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 64 and cases cited.
Respondent's injury in Texas did not give rise to two
causes of action merely because recovery in each state is

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

under a different statute, or because each affords a different
measure of recovery.' Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Schendel, supra; Baltimore Steamship Co. v. Phillips,274
U. S. 316; see Wabash R. Co. v. Hayes, 234 U. S. 86, 90.
The grounds of recovery are the same in one state as in
the other-the injury to the employee in the course of his
employment. The whole tendency of our decisions under
the full faith and credit clause is to require a plaintiff to
try his whole cause of action and his whole case at one time.
He cannot split up his claim and "a fortiori he cannot divide the grounds of recovery." UnitedStates v. California
& Oregon Land Co., 192 U. S. 355, 358. Respondent was
free to pursue his remedy in either state but, having chosen
to seek it in Texas, where the award was res judicata, the
full faith and credit clause precludes him from again seeking a remedy in Louisiana upon the same grounds. The
fact that a suitor has been denied a remedy by one state
because it does not afford a remedy for the particular
wrong alleged, may not bar recovery in another state which
does provide a remedy. See Troxell v. Delaware,L. & W.
R. Co., 227 U. S. 434; cf. Ash Sheep Co. v. United States,
252 U. S. 159, 170. But as we decided in the Schendel case
it is a very different matter to say that recovery can be had
in every state which affords a remedy.
The suggestion that there is a second and different
cause of action in Louisiana, merely because Louisiana law
authorizes compensation, and in a different measure than
does Texas, or because the jurisdiction of the court of one
state depends on the place of the injury and that of the
other on the place of the employment contract, would if
accepted prove too much. Apart from the demands of full
faith and credit, recovery in a transitory action for injury
6

Any implication to the contrary in Troxell v. Delaware,L. & W. R.
Co., 227 U. S. 434, must be considered as overruled by Wabash R.
Co. v. Hayes, 234 U. S. 86, 90; cf. Baltimore Steamship Co. v.
Phillips,274 U. S. 316, 323.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 445
430

Opinion of the Court.

to person or property, whether in tort or for compensation,
can of course only be had in conformity to the law of the
state where the action is maintained. Even where the
state of the forum adopts and applies as its own the law of
the state where the injury was inflicted, the extent to which
it shall apply in its own courts a rule of law of another
state is itself a question of local law of the forum. Finney
v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., supra,
496, 497; cf. Worcester County Trust Co. v. Riley, 302
U. S. 292, 299. And the law of a state is embodied as well
in its common law rules as in its statutes. Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, 78, 79; see Mr. Justice Holmes,
dissenting in Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518, 532-536.
If an employee employed in one state but injured in
another has a different cause of action for compensation in
each state because each has its own compensation statute,
it could as well be argued in any case where plaintiff has
recovered a judgment in one state, and seeks a second
recovery in a second state for the same injury, that he is
suing upon a second and different cause of action. But it
has never been thought that an actionable personal injury
gives rise to as many causes of action as there are states
whose laws will permit a suit to recover for the injury or
that despite the full faith and credit clause the injured
person, more than one entitled to recover for breach of
contract, could go from state to state to recover in each
damages or compensation for his injury. A judgment in
tort or in contract is not immune from the requirement of
full faith and credit because the successful plaintiff could
have maintained his suit under the law of other states and
have secured a larger recovery in some, or because the
jurisdiction of the court in one state to hear the cause may
depend upon some facts different from the facts necessary
to sustain the jurisdiction in another. Cf. Baltimore
Steamship Co. v. Phillips,supra; Eldred v. Bank, 17 Wall.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

320 U. S.

545; Wabash R. Co. v. Hayes, supra; Kenney v. Supreme
Lodge, supra. And we cannot say that a workmen's compensation award for injury stands on any different footing.
In fact Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, supra,held
that it did not and we see no reason to depart from its
ruling.
Reversed.
By MR. JUSTICE JACKSON:

I concur with the opinion of the CHIEF JUSTICE.
If the Court were to reconsider Williams v. North Carolina, 317 U. S. 287, in the light of the views expressed by
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, I should adhere to the views I expressed in dissent there. Until we do so, I consider myself
bound by that decision. Whatever might be the law if
that case had never been decided, I am unable to see why
the controlling principles it announced under the full faith
and credit clause to reverse the North Carolina decision
therein do not require reversal of the Louisiana decision
under review. I agree with the dissent that Louisiana
has a legitimate interest to protect in the subject matter
of this litigation, but so did North Carolina in the Williams
case. I am unable to see how Louisiana can be constitutionally free to apply its own workmen's compensation
law to its citizens despite a previous adjudication in
another state if North Carolina was not free to apply
its own matrimonial policy to its own citizens after judgment on the subject in Nevada. Is Louisiana's social interest in seeing that its labor contracts carry adequate
workmen's compensation superior constitutionally to
North Carolina's interest in seeing that people who contract marriage there are protected in the rights they acqiire? It is true that someone might have to take care
of the Louisiana citizen who is injured but inadequately
compensated in Texas, as it was true in the W1illiams case
that someone might have to care for those deprived of their
marriage status by the foreign divorce decree.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT.
430

DOUGLAS,

447

J., dissenting.

Overruling a precedent always introduces some confusion and the necessity for it may be unfortunate. But it is
as nothing to keeping on our books utterances to which we
ourselves will give full faith and credit only if the outcome
pleases us. I shall abide by the Williams case until it is
taken off our books, and for that reason concur in the
decision herein.

dissenting:
While I have joined in the opinion of Ma.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

JUSTICE

BLACK, certain observations in the concurring opinion lead
me to add a few words.
I do not agree with the view that the full faith and credit
clause is to be enforced "only if the outcome pleases us."
We are dealing here with highly controversial subjects
where honest differences of opinion are almost certain to
occur. Each case involves a clash between the policies of
two sovereign States. The question is not which policy
we prefer; it is whether the two conflicting policies can
somehow be accommodated. The command of the full
faith and credit clause frequently makes a reconciliation of
the two interests impossible. One must give way in the
larger interest of the federal union. The question in each
case is whether as a practical matter there is room for
adjustment, consistent with the requirements of full faith
and credit. Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S. 287,
is a recent example. One domiciled in Nevada was
granted a divorce from his North Carolina spouse on
notice by publication. The question for us was whether
that decree was a defense to a prosecution for bigamy in
North Carolina. Such questions of status, i. e., marital
capacity, involve conflicts between -the policies of two
States which are quite irreconcilable as compared with the
present situation.
If the claim under the Texas Act had been denied because of statutory defenses accorded the employer, I do not

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DouGlus, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

suppose that the requirements of full faith and credit
would bar the subsequent claim under a Louisiana statute
which did not recognize such defenses. At least Troxell v.
Delaware. L. & W. R. Co., 227 U. S. 434, which has never
been overruled, points to that result for it held that a denial
of recovery under a state act was no barrier to a suit under
a federal act for the same injury. If the full faith and
credit clause would not prevent a recovery under the Louisiana Act where an award under the Texas Act had been
denied, I do not see how Louisiana can be prevented from
granting a recovery after Texas has made an award. The
action of Texas would be as definite and final an adjudication of the rights and duties of the parties under the
Texas statute in the one case as in the other. Moreover,
the two statutes are not mutually exclusive as was true in
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611.
Thus a determination that an employer is under the
Texas Act does not mean conversely that he is excluded
from the coverage of Louisiana's law.
The principle of the Trozell case seems apposite here
since the claim in Texas was only one for "compensation
under the Employers Liability Act" of that State. And
the Texas award purported to do no more than to adjudicate rights and duties under the Texas Act. For it provided that when fully paid it would discharge the insurer
"from all liability by reason of this claim for compensation." If the Texas award had undertaken to adjudicate
the rights and duties of the parties under the Louisiana
contract of employment, which we are told carries the
right to compensation under the Louisiana Act (10 So.
2d 109, 112), the result would be quite different. Then
the judgment, like the divorce decree in the Williams case,
would undertake to regulate the relationship of the parties, or their rights and duties which flow from it, as respects their undertakings in another State. And since
Texas would have had jurisdiction over the parties its

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 449
430

DovuAs, J., dissenting.

decree would be a bar to the present action in Louisiana.
But there is nothing in the Texas proceeding or in the
Texas award to indicate that that was either intended or
done. The most charitable construction is that Texas
undertook to adjust the rights and duties of the parties
and to regulate their relationship only so long as they
remained subject to the jurisdiction of Texas.
Under the circumstances disclosed the situation is thus
quite different from the usual transitory action or from a
decree which undertakes to sever marital bonds between
one domiciled in a state and a non-resident. But even if
the Texas award were less clear than I think it is, I would
resolve all doubts against an inference that rights under
the Louisiana contract were adjudicated in Texas. Such
a course seems to me essential so that the greatest possible
accommodations of the interests of the two States, consistent with the requirements of full faith and credit, may
be had whether the matter be divorce, workmen's compensation or any other subject on which state policies
differ.
On its face Yarborough v. Yarborough, 290 U. S. 202,
might seem to look the other way. There a Georgia decree
of permanent alimony for a child was held to be entitled to
full faith and credit in South Carolina where the child
subsequently sought additional allowances. But the
Georgia decree was more clearly an adjudication of the
aggregate liability of the defendant than was the Texas
award in the present case, for it relieved the father on
compliance with its provisions of "all payments of alimony." 290 U. S. p. 207. Moreover, the father was not
a resident of South Carolina but had long been domiciled
in Georgia. The Court specifically reserved the question
whether the Georgia decree would be entitled to full faith
and credit as a final discharge of the duty to support had
the father been domiciled in South Carolina. 290 U.. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
B ACK, J.,

dissenting.

320 U. S.

p. 213. Here the Texas award is not only a limited one.
The employee is domiciled in Louisiana, the employer is
authorized to do business in Louisiana. The employment
contract is a Louisiana contract. Louisiana has such a
considerable interest at stake that.I would allow its policy
to be obliterated or subordinated only in case what took
place in Texas is irreconcilable with what Louisiana now
seeks to do. I do not think it is.
It is thus apparent that the decision of Williams v.
North Carolinais no shelter in the present controversy.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

joins in this dissent.

dissenting:

The respondent Hunt is a resident of Louisiana, employed in that state by the petitioner and sent by the petitioner to do work in Texas. While in Texas he was seriously injured in the course of his employment. Confined
to a hospital he was told that he could not recover compensation unless he signed two forms presented to him.
As found by the Louisiana trial judge there was printed
on each of the forms "in small type" the designation "Industrial Accident Board, Austin, Texas." To get his compensation Hunt signed the forms and the Texas insurer
began to pay. Returning to his home in Louisiana Hunt
apparently discovered that his interests would be more
fully protected under Louisiana law and notified the insurer of an intention to claim under the statute of that
state. The insurer immediately stopped payment to him
and notified the Texas Board to that effect. Four days
later, without any request from Hunt, the Board notified
him at his Louisiana home that a hearing would be held
in Texas within two and a half weeks "to determine the
liability of the insurance company" under Texas law.
Hunt did mot participate in that proceeding. The Texas
Board thereafter made an award to him which, under the

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 451
430

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

law of Texas, was equivalent to a judgment against the

insurer. Before the Texas award became final Hunt, who
had declined to accept any money under it, filed suit
against his employer in the courts of Louisiana under the
Workmen's Compensation Law of Louisiana. He recovered a judgment for a substantially larger sum than had
been allowed him under the Texas award, from which the
Louisiana court deducted the sum he had already received
from the Texas insurer.
The employer has contended here that the Texas award
against the insurer was a judgment which under the full
faith and credit clause precluded the employee from any
further relief in the courts of Louisiana. The Court today
agrees with the employer, holding that while in "exceptional cases . . . the judgment of one state may not override the laws and policy of another, this Court is the final
arbiter of the extent of the exceptions." The Court declines to recognize an exception in the case now before us,
buttressing its conclusion with a contention that the case
of Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611,
requires such a result.
I disagree. As I see it, this case properly involves two
separate legal questions: (1) Did Texas intend the award
of its Industrial Accident Board against the insurer to
bar the right granted the employee by the Louisiana
Workmen's Compensation Law to collect from his employer for the same injury the difference between the compensation allowed by Texas and the more generous compensation allowed by Louisiana? (2) Assuming the Texas
award was intended to constitute such a bar, does the
interest of Louisiana in regulating the employment contracts of its residents nevertheless permit it to grant that
larger measure of compensation which as a matter of local
policy it believes necessary? The decision of the Court
on both of these issues appears to me to be wrong.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BlACx, J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

I.

Where a state court refuses to recognize the judgment
of a sister state as a bar to an asserted cause of action,
the full faith and credit clause cannot raise a federal
question unless the judgment would have been a bar to
a similar suit in that sister state. R. S. § 905, U. S. C.
Title 28, § 687; Titus v. Wallick, 306 U. S. 282. Even
where the judgment would bar the suit in the sister state,
"as this Court has often recognized, there are many judgments which need not be given the same force and effect
abroad which they have at home, and there are some,
though valid in the state where rendered, to which the
full faith and credit clause gives no force elsewhere."
Dissenting opinion, Yarborough v. Yarborough, 290 U. S.
202, 213, 214, 215. Whether Texas intended that its
award should bar the employee here from recovering compensation under the Louisiana law is an issue upon which
Texas courts have not spoken. In fact, they absolutely
refuse to entertain any suits at all based on the Louisiana
Workmen's Compensation Law. Johnson v. Employers
Liability Corp., 99 S.W. 2d 979.
The general rule of res judicata announced by Texas
courts is that a judgment on the merits constitutes "a
finality as to the claim or demand in controversy, concluding parties and those in privity with them . . . as to

every matter which was offered and received to sustain or
defeat the claim or demand, [and] as to any other admissible matter which might have been offered for that purpose." Rio Bravo Oil Co. v. Hebert, 130 Tex. 1, 8, 9, 106
S. W. 2d 242, 246. The opinion of Section A of the Texas
Commission of Appeals in Ocean Accident & Guarantee
Corp. v. Pruitt,58 S.W. 2d 41, 44-45, relied upon by the
Court, presents an application of this rule to Texas workmen's compensation awards. There it was held that an
employee who had been denied a compensation award by

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 453
430

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

the Accident Board could not bring a second proceeding
before the Board against the same insurer to recover compensation for the same injuries. In the instant case the
situation is entirely different. The parties are not the
same; the issues are not the same; and the two proceedings are not under the same Act. The proceeding in this
case before the Texas Board was against the insurer only
and the award entered, by its express terms, was limited
to a release of the insurance company from further liability. The liability of the employer under Louisiana
law was not in issue before the Board and could not have
been put in issue. The employer was not a party to that
proceeding; nor was there "privity" between the insurer
and the employer since the insurer's liability did not extend to rights which the employee might have against
his employer under Louisiana law. Moreover the jurisdiction of the Accident Board is limited to administration
of the Texas Workmen's Compensation Act; even if the
issues of liability under Louisiana law had been raised
they could not have been decided by that Board. The
decision of this Court today, therefore, is tantamount to
holding that Texas intended to extinguish a claim against
the employer in a proceeding in which the employer was
not a party and the issue of its liability under Louisiana
law was not allowed to be raised. I cannot impute such
an intention to Texas.
The statutes of Texas lend support to the view that the
Accident Board's award was not intended to bar the
employee's rights against his employer arising under the
law of Louisiana. Under the Texas statutes an award
of the Accident Board neither adds to nor subtracts from
an employer's liability to an injured employee. That
liability is fixed, not by an award, but by a tripartite contract implied by the Texas statute between the employer,
the employee, and the insurer, under which the employee

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

agrees not to sue the employer for occupational injuries
under the common law or statutes of Texas.' An employee who fails to elect to retain his common law remedies against his employer is deemed to have waived only
his "right of action at common law or under any statute
of this state." I (Italics supplied.) Clearly this Texas
statute did not intend that a workman who elected to
come under the compensation act should thereby lose any
rights created by the laws of other states. That section
of the Texas statutes relied upon by the Court requires
no different result. It provides that an employee injured
"outside of the State" cannot recover under the Texas
act if "he has elected to pursue his remedy and recovers
in the state where such injury occurred."' Plainly this
latter statute pertains only to the right of recovery under
Texas law; it does not purport to affect rights under the
laws of other states. Nor does it proceed on any theory
of res judicata for if an employee fails to recover in the
other state he can nevertheless recover an award in Texas.
And in any event the statute could not apply to the instant case, for this employee's injury did not occur "outside" of Texas. The dictum of the Travelers Insurance
Co. v. Cason, 132 Tex. 393, 396, 124 S. W. 2d 321, referred
1Cf. Anderson-Berney Realty Co. v. Plasida Soria, 123 Tex. 100, 67
S. W. 2d 222. If petitioner had any defense to Hunt's suit under
Louisiana law, it was not the award but the implied contract. See
Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 108 Tex. 96, 185 S. W. 556,
aff'd 249 U. S. 152. Petitioner, however, pleaded only the award for

its defense.

2Texas Rev. Civ. Stat., Title 130, Art. 8306, § 3 (a). I do not
agree with the Court that § 3 of this Article purports to compel an
employee to waive rights which arise under the laws of another state.
Such a construction would reduce the above quoted language of § 3 (a)
to deceptive verbiage.
'a Rev. Civ. Stat., Article 8306, § 19. Apparently only one other
state, Oregon, has a statute comparable to this. See Oregon Code
(1935, Supplement) § 49-1813a.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT.
430

BLACK,

455

J., dissenting.

to by the Court, pertains to the rights of a Texas workman
who was injured in Pennsylvania.
In the absence of compelling language this Court should
not construe the statutes of Texas in such a manner that
grave questions of their constitutionality are raised. Cf.
Yarborough v. Yarborough, supra, 213, 214. It is extremely doubtful whether Texas has the power, by any
legal device, to preclude a sister state from granting to its
own residents employed within its own borders that measure of compensation for occupational injuries which it
deems advisable. "A state can legislate only with reference to its own jurisdiction; and the full faith and credit
clause does not require the enforcement of every right
which has ripened into a judgment of another state or has
been conferred by its statutes." Broderick v. Rosner, 294
U. S. 629, 642. The practical result of the decision here is
to hold that Texas has power to nullify a Louisiana statute
which gives the beneficial protection of workmen's compensation to an injured workman who is a resident of
Louisiana and made his contract of employment there. I
"am not persuaded that the full faith and credit clause
gives sanction to such control by one state of the internal
affairs of another." Yarborough v. Yarborough, supra,
214.
II.
It is apparently conceded that Louisiana would not have
been required to apply the Texas statute had there not
been a judgment in the particular case by the Texas tribunal. This freedom of the state to apply its own policy
in workmen's compensation cases despite a conflicting
statute in the state in which the accident occurs rests on
the theory that the state where the workman is hired or is
domiciled has a genuine and special interest in the outcome of the litigation. Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial
Accident Comm'n, 294 U. S. 532, 541-543, 549; cf. Pacific

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306
U. S. 493, 503. These cases mark recognition of the fact
that the authority of the states to act in any field is to be
measured as much by vital state interests as by technical
legal concepts. Cf. Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318
U. S. 313. The argument of state interest is hardly less
compelling when Louisiana chooses to reject as decisive of
the issues of the case a foreign judgment than when it
rejects a foreign statute.
The interest of Texas in providing compensation for an
injured employee who like respondent was only temporarily employed in the state is not the same as that of Louisiana where the respondent was domiciled and where the
contract of employment was made. Someone has to take
care of an individual who has received, as has respondent,
an injury which permanently disables him from performance of his work. If employers or the consumers of their
goods do not shoulder this responsibility, the general public of a state must. Neither state merely vindicates a private wrong growing out of tortious conduct. McKane v.
New Amsterdam Casualty Co., 199 So. 175, 179 (Ct. of
App. of La., Orleans); Texas Employers' Ins. Assn. v.
Price, 291 S. W. 287, 290. The Louisiana Act was passed
in the interest of the general welfare of the people of
Louisiana. Puchver v. Employers' Liability Corp., 198
La. 922, 5 So. 2d 288.' If it chooses to be more generous
to injured workmen than Texas, no Constitutional issue
is presented.
' The classic theory of the interest of a state in workmen's compensation was expressed by this Court in upholding the constitutionality of a state compensation system: In the absence of a workmen's
compensation system, "the injured workman is left to bear the greater

part of industrial accident loss, which because of his limited income
he is unable to sustain, so that he and those dependent upon him are
overcome by poverty and frequently become a burden upon public
or private charity." New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 197.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 457
430

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

The decision of the Court is not required by the &chendel
case. In that case an employee brought an action in a
Minnesota court under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act. His employer brought an action in Iowa under the
state law, the result of which was a holding by the Iowa
court that the action had occurred in intrastate commerce.
This Court held in the Schenzdel case, which was a review
of the Minnesota proceedings, that the decision of the Iowa
court that the accident occurred in intrastate commerce
was res judicata and that the employee could not attempt
to show that the accident had in fact occurred in interstate
commerce as would have been necessary to bring the case
within the coverage of the federal Act. The case is wholly
distinguishable since the policy of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act has not been thought to require that a federal
award supplement a state workmen's compensation award.
The statutes involved were not conflicting but were mutually exclusive, the federal Act covering only injuries in
interstate commerce, U. S. C. Title 45, § 51 et seq.
Today's decision is flatly in conflict with accepted law
and practice. The Restatement of Conflict of Laws, § 403
states categorically that an "award already had under
the Workmen's Compensation Act of another state will
not bar a proceeding under an applicable Act, but the
amount paid on a prior award in another state will be
credited on the second award," and one of the foremost
studies of workmen's compensation states the same rule."
Even in the absence of an express statute several state
courts have explicitly approved this practice. Gilbert v.
Des Lauriers Column Mould Co., 180 App. Div. 59, 167
N. Y. S. 274; Interstate Power Co. v. Industrial Comnission, 203 Wis. 466, 234 N. W. 889; see similarly McLaughlin's Case, 274 Mass. 217, 174 N. E. 338; Migues's Case,

5 Dodd, Administration of Workmen's Compensation (1936) pp.
819, 820. See also to the same effect 2 Beale, The Conflict of Laws
(1935) § 403.1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

281 Mass. 373, 183 N. E. 847. Texas itself for a time applied a similar ruling. Texas Employers' Ins. Assn. v.
Price,300 S. W. 667.
North Carolina provides by statute in cases like the
present that the employee should be entitled to receive
compensation provided that if he receives compensation
from a state other than North Carolina, he will be given no
more compensation by North Carolina than would raise
the total recovery to the maximum allowed by the North
Carolina law.' Six other states have similar statutes.'
The Committee on Workmen's Compensation Legislation
of the International Association of Industrial Accident
Boards and Commissions has drafted a uniform state law
on the subject which, were it applicable in the instant
case, would permit the employee to waive his rights under
the Louisiana law by bringing an action under the Texas
law only by filing a written waiver with a Louisiana Commission which would not be binding until approved by
such a Commission.8 This proposed uniform state law
would presumably be unconstitutional under the decision
announced today since it would leave in Louisiana the
power to decide whether the employee should receive ad6 N. C. Code (1939) § 8081 (rr).
7Florida: Florida Statutes (1941) § 440.09 (1); Georgia: Georgia
Code (1933) § 114-411; Maryland: Maryland Annotated Code (1939),
Flack's Edition, Art. 101, § 80 (3); Ohio: Page's Ohio General Code,
§ 1465-68; South Carolina: S. C. Code (1942) § 7035-39; and Virginia:
Virginia Code (1942) § 1887 (37). No less than thirty-four states
have enacted statutes which expressly permit recovery of workmen's
compensation under specified circumstances for injuries received in
another state. And the courts of nine additional states have construed
statutes which are not express to achieve the same result. See
Schneider, Workmen's Compensation Law (1941) Vol. 1, c. 5, pp.
441-508; Schneider, Workmen's Compensation Statutes (1939), Vols.
1-4.
aU. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Bulletin No. 577 (1933) pp. 15-16.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 459
430

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

ditional compensation despite the effect which Texas
might seek to give to its award.
Whether the theory is that Texas did not intend its
judgment to bar a proceeding in Louisiana or that the
Texas workmen's compensation law is so incompatible
with the policy of Louisiana that Louisiana is not bound
by the Texas judgment, the result should be the same:
There should be no Constitutional barrier preventing a
state in effect from increasing the workmen's compensation award of another state in a case in which it has jurisdiction over the participants and the social responsibility
for the results. Where two states both have a legitimate
interest in the outcome of workmen's compensation litigation, the question of whether the second state which
considers the case should abide by the decision of the first
is a question of policy which should be decided by the
state legislatures and courts.' Certainly fair argument
can be made for either disposition of the policy question.
Texas itself decided the question one way by decision in
the Price case, 300 S. W. 667, supra, and, to a limited exState laws vary, and
tent, the other way by statute.
uniformity is not the highest value in the law of workmen's compensation, a point well made by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin when confronted with this very prob9 "The interest, which New Hampshire has, in exercising that control, derived from the presence of employer and employe within its
borders, and the commission of the tortious act there, is at least as
valid as that of Vermont, derived from the fact that the status is that
of its citizens, and originated when they were in Vermont, before going
to New Hampshire. I can find nothing in the history of the full faith
and credit clause, or the decisions under it, which lends support to the
view that it compels any state to subordinate its domestic policy, with
respect to persons and their acts within its borders, to the laws of any
other." Concurring opinion in Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper,
286 U. S. 145, 163, 164.
10 Rev. Civ. Stat., Article 8306, § 19.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BtucK, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

lem in Intcrstate Power Co. v. Industrial Commission,
supra, 477:
"This state adopted a very liberal act, and it is reasonably
to be inferred that the legislature was more concerned with
making certain that workmen within its jurisdiction
should get all the benefits of the act than it was with any
conflicts or legal difficulties which might arise out of lack
of uniformity. Our plain duty is to give to the act its
intended effect, and to leave to the legislature the enactment of provisions designed to limit its operation in the
interest of uniformity."
Much has been made in the argument here of the alleged
vice of double recovery which is said to be allowed the
respondent. Let me emphasize that there is no double
recovery. In the first place the Louisiana court has deducted from its judgment the amount of the Texas payments. In the second place the aggregate of the awards
from both states, if added together, would be far less than
the total loss suffered by respondent. The Texas allowance scarcely amounts to a "recovery" in the sense of
giving full compensation for loss, and has been described
by a Texas court to be "more in the nature of a pension
than a liability for breach of contract, or damages intact."
Texas Employers' Ins. Assn. v. Price, 300 S. W. 667, supra,
669. See also Biddingerv. Steininger-Taylor Co., 25 Ohio
Dec. 603, 608.
The Court seems in some parts of its opinion to adopt a
wholly new and far reaching policy relating to the power
of states to allow complete indemnification for a personal
injury by permitting more than one suit against the
wrongdoer, and to engraft this policy on to the full faith
and credit clause. Courts schooled in the common law
have long objected to what has been designated "splitting
a cause of action." They have phrased this policy objection in many common law concepts, one of which has been

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT. 461
430

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

the doctrine of "election of remedies." This predilection
of common law judges in favor of compelling the aggregation of all possible elements of damage into one law suit
is here apparently elevated to a position of Constitutional
impregnability in the full faith and credit clause. The
Court now seems to interpret that clause to prohibit a
recovery of full compensation for a personal injury in more
than one suit even if one or more states think full compensation can best be accorded in this manner. The practical result of this drastic new Constitutional doctrine is
that State B must give more faith and credit to State A's
judgment for damages for personal injury than State A
itself intended the judgment should be given. State A's
and State B's judgments are said to be mutually exclusive,
not because either state made them so, but apparently on
the ground that the full faith and credit clause imposes
a rule of substantive law which requires this result. This
doctrine would accord to the full faith and credit clause a
meaning which it would have had if its authors had stated,
"Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the
. . . judicial Proceedings of every other State, and in
addition two recoveries shall never be allowed by separate
states for losses resulting from a single personal injury."
When the authors of the Constitution desired to prohibit
two criminal prosecutions for the same offense, they had
no difficulty in expressing their views.'
Had they wished
to hobble the states in their efforts to provide more than
one remedy in order to accomplish full justice in civil
cases, I think they could and would have expressed themselves with equal clarity and emphasis.
1

United States Constitution, Fifth Amendment. It has been held

that, consistent with the Fifth Amendment, the federal government
can impose criminal liability upon an individual for the same conduct

for which he has been tried and convicted under a state criminal
statute. United States v. Lanza, 260 U. S. 377.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U.S.

III.
The effect of the decision of this Court today is to strike
down as unconstitutional an important provision of the
workmen's compensation laws of at least eleven states.
For more than half a century the power of the states to
regulate their domestic economic affairs has been narrowly
restricted by judicial interpretation of the federal Constitution. The chief weapon in the arsenal of restriction,
only recently falling into disrepute because of overuse.
is the due process clause. The full faith and credit clause,
used today to serve the same purposes, is no better suited
to control the freedom of the states. The practical question now before us can be decided by the states in many
ways and most of the states which have expressed themselves seem ready to dispose of the problem as has Louisiana. Our notions of policy should not permit the Constitution to become a barrier to free experimentation by the
states with the problems of workmen's compensation.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur in this opinion.

and MR.

ATLANTIC REFINING CO. v. MOLLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 56.

Argued December 7, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.

Section 15 of an Act of March 3, 1899, makes it unlawful "to tie up or
anchor vessels or other craft in navigable channels in such a manner
as to prevent or obstruct the passage of other vessels or craft."
Held:
1. An exception to § 15 is recognized where literal compliance with
its terms would create a danger to navigation which a departure from
its terms could avoid or lessen. P. 466.

