YASUI v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.
YASUI v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 871. Argued May 11, 1943.-Decided June 21, 1943.
The conviction of a person of Japanese ancestry for violation of a
curfew order is sustained upon the authority of Hirabayashi v.
United States, ante, p. 81; although, for purposes stated in the
opinion, the cause is remanded to the District Court. P. 117.
48 F. Supp. 40, affirmed.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals upon an appeal to that court from a conviction in the District Court for violation of a curfew order.
This Court directed that the entire record be certified so
that the case could be determined as if brought here by
appeal.

Messrs. A. L. Wirin and E. F. Bernard (Mr. Ralph E.
Moody was with the latter on the brief) for Yasui.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
Ennis, Arnold Raum, John L. Burling, and Leo Gitlin were
on the brief, for the United States.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Messrs. Arthur Garfield Hays, Osmond K. Fraenkeland A. L. Wirin, on behalf
of the American Civil Liberties Union; by Mr. A. L. Wirin
on behalf of the Japanese American Citizens League;
and by Mr. Jackson H. Ralston on behalf of the Northern California Branch of the American Civil Liberties
Union,-in support of Yasui; and by Messrs. Robert W.
Kenny, Attorney General of California, I. H. Van Winkle,
Attorney General of Oregon, and Smith Troy, Attorney
General of the State of Washington, and Fred E. Lewis,
Chief Assistant and Acting Attorney General of the
State of Washington, on behalf of those States,-urging
affirmance.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

320 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Hirabayashi v. United
States, ante, p. 81.
.The case comes here on certificate of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, certifying to us questions of
law upon which it desires instructions for the decision of
the case. ยง 239 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S.
C. ยง 346. Acting under that section we ordered the entire record to be certified to this Court so that we might
proceed to a decision, as if the case had been brought here
by appeal.
Appellant, an American-born person of Japanese ancestry, was convicted in the district court of an offense
defined by the Act of March 21, 1942. 56 Stat. 173. The
indictment charged him with violation, on March 28,
1942, of a curfew order made applicable to Portland,
Oregon, by Public Proclamation No. 3, issued by Lt. General J. L. DeWitt on March 24, 1942. 7 Federal Register
2543. The validity of the curfew was considered in the
Hirabayashicase, and this case presents the same issues
as the conviction on Count 2 of the indictment in that
case. From the evidence it appeared that appellant was
born in Oregon in 1916 of alien parents; that when he was
eight years old he spent a summer in Japan; that he attended the public schools in Oregon, and also, for about
three years, a Japanese language school; that he later attended the University of Oregon, from which he received
A. B. and LL. B. degrees; that he was a member of the bar
of Oregon, and a second lieutenant in the Army of the
United States, Infantry Reserve; that he had been employed by the Japanese Consulate in Chicago, but had
resigned on December 8, 1941, and immediately offered
his services to the military authorities; that he had discussed with an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-

YASUI v. UNITED STATES.
115

Opinion of the Court.

tion the advisability of testing the constitutionality of
the curfew; and that when he violated the curfew order
he requested that he be arrested so that he could test its
constitutionality.
The district court ruled that the Act of March 21, 1942,
was unconstitutional as applied to American citizens, but
held that appellant, by reason of his course of conduct,
must be deemed to have renounced his American citizenship. 48 F. Supp. 40. The Government does not undertake to support the conviction on that ground, since no
such issue was tendered by the Government, although
appellant testified at the trial that he had not renounced
his citizenship. Since we hold, as in the Hirabayashi
case, that the curfew order was valid as applied to citizens,
it follows that appellant's citizenship was not relevant to
the issue tendered by the Government and the conviction must be sustained for the reasons stated in the
Hirabayashicase.
But as the sentence of one year's imprisonment-the
maximum permitted by the statute-was imposed after
the finding that appellant was not a citizen, and as the
Government states that it has not and does not now controvert his citizenship, the case is an appropriate one for
resentence in the light of these circumstances. See Husty
v. United States, 282 U. S. 694, 703. The conviction will
be sustained but the judgment will be vacated and the
cause remanded to the district court.for resentence of appellant, and to afford that court opportunity to strike its
findings as to appellant's loss of United States citizenship.
So ordered.

