SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
Syllabus.

SWITCHMEN'S UNION OF NORTH AMERICA ET AL.
v. NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 48. Argued October 15, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
A dispute having arisen between two labor organizations as to representation of employees of a carrier for collective bargaining, the
services of the National Mediation Board were invoked pursuant to
§ 2, Ninth of the Railway Labor Act. One of the organizations
sought to be the representative of all yardmen; the other, to be the
representative of certain smaller groups. The Board directed an
election, designating all yardmen as participants. The first organization was chosen representative, and the Board certified the result
to the carrier. The second organization and some of its members
brought suit in the federal District Court, challenging the Board's
determination as to participants in the election and seeking cancellation of the certificate. Held that the District Court was without jurisdiction to review the action of the Board in issuing the
certificate. P. 300.
1. The language of the Railway Labor Act and the legislative
history of § 2, Ninth thereof support the conclusion that the intent
of Congress was that the Board's certification of representatives for
collective bargaining should not be judicially reviewable. P. 306.
(a) Constitutional questions aside, it is for Congress to determine how the rights which it creates shall be enforced. P. 301.
(b) Where Congress has not expressly authorized judicial review, the type of problem involved and the history of the statute in
question are relevant in determining whether judicial review may
nonetheless be supplied. P. 301.
2. The broad grant to the federal district courts, by Jud. Code
§ 24 (8), of original jurisdiction of all "suits and proceedings arising
under any law regulating commerce," can not sustain jurisdiction in
this case. P. 300.
3. That the Board's certification of representatives of employees
for collective bargaining is conclusive does not of itself make such
certification judicially reviewable. P. 303.
4. Shields v. Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177, distinguished. P. 306.
135 F. 2d 785, reversed.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

319 U. S. 736, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing the complaint in a suit challenging
the action of the National Mediation Board in certifying
representatives for collective bargaining.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Donald R. Richberg, with whom Mr. Rufus G.
Poole was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
was on the brief, for the National Mediation Board et al.;
and Mr. Bernard M. Savage, with whom Mr. Alfred L.
Bennett was on the brief, for the Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen,-respondents.
MR. JuscicE DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action by the petitioners, the Switchmen's
Union of North America and some of its members against
the National Mediation Board, its members, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, and the New York Central
Railroad Company and the Michigan Central Railroad
Company. The individual plaintiffs are members and
officials of the Switchmen's Union and employees of the
respondent carriers.
Petitioners were plaintiffs in the District Court. A
certification of representatives for collective bargaining
under § 2, Ninth of the Railway Labor Act (44 Stat. 577,
48 Stat. 1185) was made by the Board to the carriers.1
2Sec. 2, Ninth provides: "If any dispute shall arise among a carrier's
employees as to who are the representatives of such employees designated and authorized in accordance with the requirements of this Act,
it shall be the duty of the Mediation Board, upon request of either party
to the dispute, to investigate such dispute and to certify to both parties,
in writing, within thirty days after the receipt of the invocation of its
services, the name or names of the individuals or organizations that have
been designated and authorized to represent the employees involved in
the dispute, and certify the same to the carrier. Upon receipt of such

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Opinion of the Court.

This certification followed the invocation of the services
of the Board to investigate a dispute among the yardmen
as to their representative. The Brotherhood sought to be
the representative for all the yardmen of the rail lines operated by the New York Central system. The Switchmen
contended that yardmen of certain designated parts of the
system should be permitted to vote for separate representatives instead of being compelled to take part in a systemwide election.
The Board designated all yardmen of the carriers as participants in the election. The election was held and the
Brotherhood was chosen as the representative. Upon the
certification of the result to the carriers, petitioners sought
to have the determination by the Board of the participants
and the certification of the representative cancelled. This
suit for cancellation was brought in the District Court.
That court upheld the decision of the Board to the effect
that all yardmen in the service of a carrier should select
a single representative for collective bargaining. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed by a divided vote. 135
F. 2d 785. The case is here on a petition for a writ of cercertification the carrier shall treat with the representative so certified as
the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of this Act.
In such an investigation, the Mediation Board shall be authorized to
take a secret ballot of the employees involved, or to utilize any other
appropriate method of ascertaining the names of their duly designated

and authorized representatives in such manner as shall insure the
choice of representatives by the employees without interference, influence, or coercion exercised by the carrier. In the conduct of any
election for the purposes herein indicated the Board shall designate
who may participate in the election and establish the rules to govern
the election, or may appoint a committee of three neutral persons who
after hearing shall within ten days designate the employees who may

participate in the election. The Board shall have access to and have
power to make copies of the books and records of the carriers to obtain

and utilize such information as may be deemed necessary by it to carry
out the purposes and provisions of this paragraph."

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

tiorari which we granted because of the importance of the
problems which are raised.
We do not reach the merits of the controversy. For we
are of the opinion that the District Court did not have the
power to review the action of the National Mediation
Board in issuing the certificate.
Sec. 24 (8) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (8),
gives the federal district courts "original jurisdiction" of
all "suits and proceedings arising under any law regulating commerce." We may assume that if any judicial
review of the certificate of the Board could be had, the District Court would have jurisdiction by reason of that provision of the Judicial Code. See Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S.201; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S.
38; Peyton v. Railway Express Agency, 316 U. S.350. But
we do not think that that broad grant of general jurisdiction may be invoked in face of the special circumstances
which obtain here.
If the absence of jurisdiction of the federal courts meant
a sacrifice or obliteration of a right which Congress
had created, the inference would be strong that Congress intended the statutory provisions governing the
general jurisdiction of those courts to control. That was
the purport of the decisions of this Court in Texas & New
OrleansR. Co. v. Brotherhoodof Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, and
VirginianRy. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515. In
those cases it was apparent that but for the general jurisdiction of the federal courts there would be no remedy
to enforce the statutory commands which Congress had
written into the Railway Labor Act. The result would
have been that the "right" of collective bargaining was
unsupported by any legal sanction. That would have
robbed the Act of its vitality and thwarted its purpose.
Such considerations are not applicable here. The Act in
§ 2, Fourth writes into law the "right" of the "majority of
any craft or class of employees" to "determine who shall be

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Opinion of the Court.

the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of
this Act." That "right" is protected by § 2, Ninth which
gives the Mediation Board the power to resolve controversies concerning it and as an incident thereto to determine what is the appropriate craft or class in which the
election should be held. See Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen v. National Mediation Board, 88 F. 2d 757;
Brotherhoodof Railroad Trainmen v. NationalMediation
Board, 135 F. 2d 780. A review by the federal district
courts of the Board's determination is not necessary to
preserve or protect that "right." Congress for reasons of
its own decided upon the method for the protection of the
"right" which it created. It selected the precise machinery and fashioned the tool which it deemed suited to that
end. Whether the imposition of judicial review on top
of the Mediation Board's administrative determination
would strengthen that protection is a considerable question.' All constitutional questions aside, it is for Congress
to determine how the rights which it creates shall be
enforced. Tutun v. United States, 270 U. S.568, 576-77.
In such a case the specification of one remedy normally
excludes another. See Arnson v. Murphy, 109 U. S.
238; Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products Refining Co., 236
U. S. 165, 174-175; United States v. Babcock, 250 U. S.
328, 331; Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310
U. S. 381, 404.
Generalizations as to when judicial review of administrative action may or may not be obtained are of course
hazardous. Where Congress has not expressly authorized
judicial review, the type of problem involved and the history of the statute in question become highly relevant in
determining whether judicial review may be nonetheless
supplied. See United States v. Griffin, 303 U.S. 226,232237. As is indicated at some length in General Commit2 "Even courts have been known to make rulings thought by counsel
to be erroneous." Cranev. Hahlo, 258 U. S. 142,148.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

tee of Adjustment v. Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co., post,
p. 323, the emergence of railway labor problems from the
field of conciliation and mediation into that of legally
enforcible rights has been quite recent. Until the 1926
Act the legal sanctions of the various acts had been few.
The emphasis of the legislation had been on conciliation
and mediation; the sanctions were publicity and public
opinion. Since 1926 there has been an increasing number of legally enforcible commands incorporated into the
Act. And Congress has utilized administrative machinery more freely in the settlement of disputes. But large
areas of the field still remain in the realm of conciliation,
mediation, and arbitration. On only-a few phases of this
controversial subject has Congress utilized administrative
or judicial machinery and invoked the compulsions of the
law. We need not recapitulate that history here. Nor
need we reiterate what we have said in the Missouri-Kansas-Texas R. Co. case beyond our conclusion that Congress
intended to go no further in its use of the processes of
adjudication and litigation than the express provisions
of the Act indicate.
In that connection the history of § 2, Ninth is highly
relevant. It was introduced into the Act in 1934 as a
device to strengthen and make more effective the processes
of collective bargaining. VirginianRy. Co. v. System Federation,supra, pp. 543-549. It was aimed not only at company unions which had long plagued labor relations (id.,
pp. 545-547) but also at numerous jurisdictional disputes
between unions. Commissioner Eastman, draftsman of
the 1934 amendments, explained the bill at the Congressional hearings. He stated that whether one organization
or another was the proper representative of a particular
group of employees was "one of the most controversial
questions in connection with labor organization matters."
Hearings, Committee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce,
House of Representatives, on H. R. 7650, 73d Cong., 2d

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Opinion of the Court.

Sess., p. 40. He stated that it was very important "to
provide a neutral tribunal which can make the decision
and get the matter settled." Id., p. 41. But the problem
was deemed to be so "highly controversial" that it was
thought that the prestige of the Mediation Board might
be adversely affected by the rulings which it would have
to make in these jurisdictional disputes. Id., p. 40. And
see Hearings, Committee on Interstate Commerce, U. S.
Senate, on S. 3266, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 134-135. Accordingly § 2, Ninth was drafted so as to give to the Mediation Board the power to "appoint a committee of three
neutral persons who after hearing shall within ten days
designate the employees who may participate in the election." That was added so that the Board's "own usefulness of settling disputes that might arise thereafter
might not be impaired." S. Rep. No. 1065, 73d Cong.,
2d Sess., p. 3. Where Congress took such great pains to
protect the Mediation Board in its handling of an explosive problem, we cannot help but believe that if Congress
had desired to implicate the federal judiciary and to place
on the federal courts the burden of having the final say on
any aspect of the problem, it would have made its desire
plain.
The fact that the certificate of the Mediation Board is
conclusive is of course no ground for judicial review.
GreatNorthernRy. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172,182.
Congress has long delegated to executive officers or executive agencies the determination of complicated questions
of fact and of law. And where no judicial review was proh
vided by Congress this Court has often refused to furnish
one even where questions of law might be involved. See
Louisianav. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627,633; United States v.
George S. Bush & Co., 310 U. S. 371; Work v. Rives, 267
U. S. 175; UnitedStates v. Babcock, supra. We need not
determine the full reach of that rule. See Bates & Guild
Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106; Houston v. St. Louis Inde-

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

pendent Packing Co., 249 U. S. 479. But its application
here is most appropriate by reason of the pattern of this
Act.
While the Mediation Board is given specified powers in
the conduct of elections, there is no requirement as to hearings. And there is no express grant of subpoena power.
The Mediation Board makes no "order." And its only
ultimate finding of fact is the certificate. Virginian Ry.
Co. v. System Federation,supra, p. 562. The function of
the Board under § 2, Ninth is more the function of a referee. To this decision of the referee Congress has added
a command enforcible by judicial decree. But the "command" is that "of the statute, not of the Board." Id.,
p. 562.
The statutory mandate is that "the carrier shall treat
with the representative so certified." § 2, Ninth. But
the scheme of § 2, Ninth is analogous to that which existed
in Butte, A. & P. Ry. Co. v. Unite&States, 290 U. S. 127.
In that case Congress provided compensation to the owners of short-line railroads for losses attributable to federal
control of the main systems during the first World War.
The Interstate Commerce Commission was directed by
§ 204 of the Transportation Act of 1920 to ascertain the
amount of deficits or losses and to "certify to the Secretary
of the Treasury the several amounts payable" to the carriers. And the Secretary of the Treasury was "authorized
and directed thereupon to draw warrants in favor of each
such carrier upon the Treasury of the United States for
the amount shown in such certificate as payable thereto."
Payments were made to the Butte company on such a certificate and the United States instituted suit to recover
on the theory that the money had been disbursed on an
erroneous interpretation of the statute. This Court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Brandeis, held
that since
authority to interpret the statute was "essential to the
performance of the duty imposed upon the Commission"

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

305

Opinion of the Court.

and since "Congress did not provide a method of review,"
the Government, as well as the carrier, was "remediless
whether the error be one of fact or of law." Id., pp. 142143. Cf. United States v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 287
U. S. 144.
In the present case the authority of the Mediation
Board in election disputes to interpret the meaning of
"craft" as used in the statute is no less clear and no less
essential to the performance of its duty. The statutory
command that the decision of the Board shall be obeyed
is no less explicit. Under this Act Congress did not give
the Board discretion to take or withhold action, to grant
or deny relief. It gave it no enforcement functions. It
was to find the fact and then cease. Congress prescribed
the command. Like the command in the Butte Ry. case
it contained no exception. Here as in that case the intent
seems plain-the dispute was to reach its last terminal
point when the administrative finding was made. There
was to be no dragging out of the controversy into other
tribunals of law.
That conclusion is reinforced by the highly selective
manner in which Congress has provided for judicial review
of administrative orders or determinations under the Act.
There is no general provision for such review. But Congress has expressly provided for it in two instances. Thus
Congress gave the National Railroad Adjustment Board
jurisdiction over disputes growing out of "grievances or out
of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, or working conditions." § 3, First
(i). The various divisions of the Adjustment Board have
authority to make awards. § 3, First (k)-(o). And suits
based on those awards may be brought in the federal district courts. § 3, First (p). In such suits "the findings
and order of the division of the Adjustment Board shall
be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated." The
other instance in the Act where Congress provided for

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

judicial review is under § 9. The Act prescribes machinery for the voluntary arbitration of labor controversies.
§5, Third; § 7; § 8. It is provided in § 9 that an award of
a board of arbitration may be impeached by an action
instituted in a federal district court on the grounds specified in § 9, one of which is that "the award plainly does
not conform to the substantive requirements laid down
by this Act for such awards, or that the proceedings were
not substantially in conformity with this Act." §9, Third
(a). When Congress in § 3 and in § 9 provided for judicial
review of two types of orders or awards and in § 2 of the
same Act omitted any such provision as respects a third
type, it drew a plain line of distinction. And the inference is strong from the history of the Act that that
distinction was not inadvertent. The language of the
Act read in light of that history supports the view that
Congress gave administrative action under § 2, Ninth a
finality which it denied administrative action under the
other sections of the Act.
Shields v. Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177, is
not opposed to that view. That case involved a determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission under
§ 1,First of the Act that the lines of the carrier in question
did not constitute an interurban electric railway. The
result was that the railroad company was a "carrier" within the meaning of the Act and subject to its criminal
penalties. The carrier brought a suit in equity against
a United States Attorney to restrain criminal prosecutions
under the Act. This Court allowed the action to be maintained even though the Railway Labor Act contained no
provision for judicial review of such rulings. But the decision was placed on the traditional use of equity proceedings to enjoin criminal proceedings. 305 U. S. p. 183.
Moreover, it was the action of the Interstate Commerce
Commission which this Court held to be reviewable. Although the authority of the Commission derived from the

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Rm), J., dissenting.

Railway Labor Act, this Court quite properly related the
issue not to railway labor disputes but to those transportation problems with which the Commission had long been
engaged. And see Shannahanv. United States, 303 U. S.
596. The latter have quite a different tradition in federal
law than those pertaining to carrier-employee relationships.
What is open when a court of equity is asked for its affirmative help by granting a decree for the enforcement
of a certificate of the Mediation Board under § 2, Ninth
raises questions not now before us. See VirginianRy. Co.
v. System Federation,supra,pp. 559-562.
Reversed.
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

MR. JusTIcE REED, dissenting:
This is an action by the petitioners, the Switchmen's
Union of North America (hereinafter referred to as the
Switchmen) and some of its members against the National
Mediation Board, its members, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen (hereafter referred to as the Brotherhood)
and the New York Central Railroad Company and the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, carrier employers
of the members of the before-mentioned unions. The
individual petitioners are members and officials of the
Switchmen's Union and employees of one or the other
of the carriers.
Petitioners were plaintiffs in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia. A certification of
representatives for collective bargaining under § 2, Ninth,
of the Railway Labor Act' was made by the Board to the
carriers. This certification followed the invocation of
the services of the Board to investigate a dispute among
144

Stat. 577, as amended 48 Stat. 1185.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
PzD,J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

the yardmen of the carriers as to their representative.
The Brotherhood sought to be the representative for
all the yardmen of rail lines, including the Michigan Central, operated by the New York Central Railroad Company and obtained the designation of participants in the
election for representative of the employees upon this
wide basis. The Switchmen contended that yardmen of
certain designated parts of the carrier property should be
permitted to choose separately their own representatives
instead of being compelled to take part in a carrier-wide
election."
. The Board of Mediation is the agency
created by statute
to designate employees who may participate in the selection of representatives under the Act." The Board under' Finding 7 of the District Court shows the distribution of yardmen of the New York Central Lines based upon union afliation, as
follows:
"7. There are approximately 6,087 yardmen employed by the Railroad Company. At the time the Board's services were invoked the
plaintiff Switchmen's Union represented the yardmen in al but nine
yards on the New York Central-Lines West of Buffalo and in all
yards on the Michigan Central west of the Detroit River, including
the South Bend Transfer Crews. The defendant Brotherhood represented yardmen in yards on the Michigan Central east of the Detroit
River, in nine yards on the New York Central-Lines West of Buffalo,
and all yardmen on the New York Central-Lines East of Buffalo, the
Toledo and Ohio Central, The Big Four, and the Boston and Albany;
and at that time no one questioned the right of the Brotherhood to
represent the yardmen employed on the four last mentioned lines."
' 48 Stat. 1185, 1188-9, § 2:
"Ninth. If any dispute shall arise among a carrier's employees as
to who are the representatives of such employees designated and
authorized in accordance with the requirements of this Act, it shall
be the duty of the Mediation Board, upon request of either party to
the dispute, to investigate such dispute and to certify to both parties,
in writing, within thirty days after the receipt of the invocation of
its services, the name or names of the individuals or organizations that
have been designated and authorized to represent the employees
involved in the dispute, and certify the same to the carrier. Upon

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

RM , J., dissenting.

took to perform this function and made its findings and
conclusions after presentation of the issues by the Brotherhood, the Switchmen and other intervenors. The Board
concluded that the
"Railway Labor Act vests the Board with no discretion to
split a single carrier or combine two or more carriers for
the purpose of determining who shall be eligible to vote
for a representative of a craft or class of employees under
Section 2, Ninth, of the Act, and the argument that it has
such power fails to furnish any basis of law for such
administrative discretion."
Consequently the Board found that the "New York Central Railroad Company and all of its operated subsidiaries
is a single carrier" and
"all of the employees of any given craft or class, such as
yardmen, in the service of a carrier so determined must
therefore be taken together as constituting the proper
basis for determining their representation in conformity
with Section 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act.
receipt of such certification the carrier shall treat with the representa-

tive so certified as the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of this Act. In such an investigation, the Mediation Board shall

be authorized to take a secret ballot of the employees involved, or to
utilize any other appropriate method of ascertaining the names of
their duly designated and authorized representatives in such manner
as shall insure the choice of representatives by the employees without
interference, influence, or coercion exercised by the carrier. In the
conduct of any election for the purposes herein indicated the Board
shall designate who may participate in the election and establish the

rules to govern the election, or may appoint a committee of three
neutral persons who after hearing shall within ten days designate the

employees who may participate in the election. The Board shall have
access to and have power to make copies of the books and records of
the carriers to obtain and utilize such information as may be deemed

necessary by it to carry out the purposes and provisions of this
paragraph."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

"The mediator assigned to the investigation of this
dispute will therefore proceed accordingly with the completion of his duties in connection with the Board's
investigation of this dispute. That is to say, he shall
regard as the proper basis for the representation of the
yardmen in the service of the entire New York Central
Railroad Company all of the yardmen in such service."
The election based upon this determination and certification followed in due course.
After the Board's designation of.all yardmen of the carrier lines as participants in the election, the election was
held and the Brotherhood chosen as the representative.
As stated in the court's opinion, upon the certification of
the result to the carriers, petitioners sought to have the determination by the Board of the participants and the certification of the representatives cancelled. But in addition
an injunction against the Brotherhood and the carriers
was asked to restrain them from negotiating agreements
concerning the craft of yardmen on the carriers' lines.
This suit was brought in the District Court. It was there
dismissed on the ground that the conclusion of the Board
that all yardmen in the service of a single carrier may be
taken together as constituting a proper basis for selecting
a representative for collective bargaining "is reasonable,
proper and not an abuse of discretion" and therefore
should not be set aside. This decree was affirmed by the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia but upon the ground of lack of power in the Board
to act otherwise if the lines involved were a single carrier.
The unity of the carrier is accepted.'
,'Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation Board, 135 F. 2d 785,
796:
"The argument was made to the Congressional Committees that the
precise language now under consideration would bring possible repercussion in railway labor relations. Specific amendments were proposed
which would have allowed the division of a craft or class. Congress

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Rmr, J., dissenting.

As treated by the Board and the courts below the problem presented by this case is one of statutory interpretation, whether or not § 2, Ninth, gives discretion to the
Board to split the crafts of a single carrier into smaller
units so that the members of such units may choose representatives of employees. This Court bases its conclusion
upon the lack of power in any court to pass upon such an
issue and leaves the interpretation of the authority granted
by § 2, Ninth, finally to the Board. With this denial of
judicial power, I cannot agree.
The constitutional validity of the principle of collective
bargaining concerning "grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements covering rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions" ' of employees of interstate
carriers is accepted.' It follows that the Congress, as an
incident to such legislation, has the power to designate the
representative of the employees or group or craft of emwas not persuaded that the unification process was not in the best interest of employees and carriers. It is for Congress to determine policy.

Our province is to keep the Board within the confines of that policy.
We are of the opinion that the Board correctly determined it had no
discretion to deny the request of a majority of the yardmen employed
by the Railroad Company to appoint a representative for their craft."
5 48 Stat. 1185,1186-7, § 2:
"(1) To avoid any interruption to commerce or to the operation of
any carrier engaged therein; (2) to forbid any limitation upon freedom of association among employees or any denial, as a condition
of employment or otherwise, of the right of employees to join a labor
organization; (3) to provide for the complete independence of carriers and of employees in the matter of self-organization to carry out
the purposes of this Act; (4) to provide for the prompt and orderly
settlement of all disputes concerning rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions; (5) to provide for the prompt and orderly settlement of
all disputes growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or
application of agreements covering rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions."
6 Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 553; Texas &
New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 570.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Rmn,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

ployees for the purpose of bargaining. Instead of making
such selection itself Congress has delegated to the employees the choice of the representatives' and the determination of these representatives, in case of any dispute
as to their identity, to the National Mediation Board.
As these delegations are surrounded by adequate standards
no question is raised as to the validity of the statutory
provisions for the selection or determination of the representatives. Cf. Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator of
Wage and Hour Division, 312 U. S. 126,142-146.
Where duties are delegated, as here, to administrative
officers, those administrative officers are authorized to act
only in accordance with the statutory standards enacted
for their guidance. Otherwise we should risk administrative action beyond or contrary to the legislative will. Cf.
UnitedStates v. CarolinaFreight CarriersCorp., 315 U. S.
'48 Stat. 1185, 1187, §2:
"Fourth. Employees shall have the right to organize and bargain
collectively through representatives of their own choosing. The majority of any craft or class of employees shall have the right to determine
who shall be the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of
this Act. No carrier, its officers or agents, shall deny or in any way
question the right of its employees to join, organize, or assist in organizing the labor organization of their choice, and it shall be unlawful
for any carrier to interfere in any way with the organization of its
employees, or to use the funds of the carrier in maintaining or assisting or contributing to any labor organization, labor representative, or
other agency of collective bargaining, or in performing any work
therefor, or to influence or coerce employees in an effort to induce them
to join or remain or not to join or remain members of any labor
organization, or to deduct from the wages of employees any dues, fees,
assessments, or other contributions payable to labor organizations, or
to collect or to assist in the collection of any such dues, fees, assessments, or other contributions: Provided,That nothing in this Act shall
be construed to prohibit a carrier from permitting an employee, individually, or local representatives of employees from conferring with
management during working hours without loss of time, or to prohibit a carrier from furnishing free transportation to its employees
while engaged in the business of a labor organization."

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

313

Run, J., dissenting.

475,489. The Railway Labor Act does not provide specifically for judicial review of the certification by the Mediation Board under § 2, Ninth, of representatives, even
though that certification is based upon an erroneous interpretation of the statute. Nor is there any clause in the
Act granting to interested parties, generally, a right to
have actions of the Board reviewed. Where an Act fails
to provide for review of preliminary rulings determining
status in preparation for subsequent action,' or performing administrative duties which were not final in character,' such rulings have not been considered as subject
to review by virtue of general statutory review provisions.
The reason that review is not allowed at such a stage is
that the rulings or orders are only preparation for future
effective action. The Rochester Telephone Corporation
case, 307 U. S. at 143-4, teaches that where this otherwise
abstract determination of status has instantaneous, final
effect, such determination comes under general statutory
review provisions. In the present instance the certification of § 2, Ninth, is but a preparatory step to bring
about the collective bargaining which is the essential purpose of the Act but it does have an immediate effect since
it destroys the petitioners' alleged right to participate in
an election based on their view of the proper electoral
unit. Yet there is no direct review of the certification,
general or special, by the terms of the Railway Labor
Act.
Nor is there necessarily an opportunity to attack the certification in later proceedings. An award of the Adjustment Board probably could not be challenged by the
parties, in a judicial proceeding for its enforcement, on
the ground that the representatives were not properly
' Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 130;
Shannahanv. United States, 303 U. S. 596, 599.
' United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, 234; United States v. Los
Angeles & Salt Lake R. Co., 273 U. S. 299, 309-310.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

chosen since this error would be irrelevant to the employee's rights."0 On the other hand, the award of a board
of arbitration under § 7 is subject to attack through statutory review provided by § 9, First, Second and Third. We
construe the provision of Third (a) that the award may
be impeached because "the proceedings were not substantially in conformity with this Act" to refer to the selection
of bargaining representatives. 1 No other orders under
the Act, legally binding on employees, spring from acts of
bargaining representatives.12
10§ 3 (m), (n), (o), (p).
U 44 Stat. 577, 585, § 9:

"Third. Such petition for the impeachment or contesting of any
award so filed shall be entertained by the court only on one or more.
*of the following grounds:
"(a) That the award plainly does not conform to the substantive
requirements laid down by this Act for such awards, or that the proceedings were not substantially in conformity with this Act; . . ."
That "proceeding" has such a meaning is strongly indicated by § 7,
First, which reads as follows:
"See. 7. First. Whenever a controversy shall arise between a carrier
or carriers and its or their employees which is not settled either in
conference between representatives of the parties or by the appropriate adjustment board or through mediation, in the manner provided
in the preceding sections, such controversy may, by agreement of the
parties to such controversy, be submitted to the arbitration of a
board of three (or, if the parties to the controversy so stipulate, of
six) persons: . . ."

A binding arbitration brought about by improperly chosen representatives would be farcical.
1244 Stat. 577, 586-7, as amended by 48 Stat. 1185, 1197, § 7:
"Emergency Board. See. 10. If a dispute between a carrier and its
employees be not adjusted under the foregoing provisions of this Act
and should, in the judgment of the Mediation Board, threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to
deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service,
the Mediation Board shall notify the President, who may thereupon,
in his discretion, create a board to investigate and report respecting
such dispute. Such board shall be composed of such number of persons as to the President may seem desirable: Provided, however, That

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

REED,

J., dissenting.

The petitioners may not have an opportunity to impeach or contest an award of a board of arbitration reached
after collective bargaining. The negotiations between
the certified representative and the carriers may not require orders of the Adjustment Board or the board of
arbitration. Mediation may compose the differences.
§ 5. In such cases there is no opportunity for the petitioners to intervene. As a consequence the Switchmen's
Union and its members are left without an opportunity
specifically provided by the Act to contest the ruling of
the Board of Mediation that the Act "vests the Board
with no discretion to split a single carrier . . . for the
purpose of determining who shall be eligible to vote for
a representative of a craft or class of employees under
Section 2, Ninth, of the Act, . . ." They exhausted their
administrative remedy when they appeared before the
Mediation Board. 303 U. S.41, 50.
The members of the Switchmen's Union and the Union
itself, in view of the fact that it was the bargaining representative of its members prior to this controversy (R. 79),
have an interest recognized by law in the selection of
representatives. Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 571. This right adheres to
his condition as an employee as a right of privacy does
to a person. This right is created for these employees by
the Railway Labor Act and, in appropriate proceedings,
a remedy, provided by the general jurisdiction of district
courts, to test the extent of this right to select representatives follows from the creation of the right unless negatived by statute, withdrawal of jurisdiction or the like,
no member appointed shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in
any organization of employees or any carrier. The compensation of
the members of any such board shall be fixed by the President. Such
board shall be created separately in each instance and it shall investigate promptly the facts as to the dispute and make a report thereon
to the President within thirty days from the date of its creation."

OCTOBER TERM, 194&
R wn,J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

when the right is claimed to be infringed. Id., 569-70"
Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation, 300 U. S. 515,
543. The remedy may not be available to parties with
a standing to enforce it because, for example, the infringement may be by governmental action without consent of the Government to be sued for a wrong committed
by it. The fact that the remedy may come from the
general jurisdiction of the courts rather than from the
review provisions of the Act is not significant. We cannot conclude that because no statutory review exists no
remedy for misinterpretation of statutory powers is left.
No such presumption of obliteration of rights may be
entertained. A. F. of L. v. Labor Board, 308 U. S.401,
412; United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, 238; Shannahan v. United States, 303 U. S. 596, 603.
The Court in this case and in General Committee of
Adjustment v. Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co., post, p. 323,
gives as reasons for denying power to the courts to determine the meaning of the statute the history of federal railway labor legislation and the omission of any provision
in this Act for review of the determination of voting
participants under § 2, Ninth.
The history of this legislation is adequately stated in
the opinions to which reference is made in the preceding
paragraph. From their review of the successive enactments in this field, it is plain that until the 1926 Act, the
scheme for adjustment of railway labor disputes was without legal sanctions. In that Act, § 2, Third,"8 § 9, Second, 1'
44 Stat. 577, 578, § 2:

"Third. Representatives, for the purposes of this Act, shall be designated by the respective parties in such manner as may be provided in

their corporate organization or unincorporated association, or by other
means of collective action, without interference, influence, or coercion
exercised by either party over the self-organization or designation of
representatives by the other."

It Id., 585, § 9:

"Second. An award acknowledged. and filed as herein provided shall
be conclusive on the parties as to the merits and facts of the con-

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Rmzn, J., dissenting.

providing for the enforcement of arbitration awards, and
§ 10, authorizing emergency boards and forbidding
changes in the conditions out of which the controversy
arose for thirty days after the creation of an emergency
board, established rights which were legally enforceable.
The statute made the awards of § 9 subject to judicial
control but only a dictum of this Court as to § 10 and
judicial interpretation of § 2, Third, provided judicial
sanction to compel compliance with their provisions.
Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks,
281 U. S. 548, 564, 566-70.
The 1934 Act was directed particularly at control over
the initial step in collective bargaining-the determination of the employees' representatives. Section 2, Ninth,
here under examination, was an entirely new provision."0
By the Clerks case, just cited, decided in 1929 and well
known as a landmark of labor law, this Court had upheld
judicial compulsion on the carrier to prohibit its interference in the selection of employee representatives even
though there was no statutory authority for such judicial
action." Section 2, Ninth, of the 1934 Act created by
troversy submitted to arbitration, and unless, within ten days after the
filing of the award, a petition to impeach the award, on the grounds
hereinafter set forth, shall be filed in the clerk's office of the court in
which the award has been filed, the court shall enter judgment on the

award, which judgment shall be final and conclusive on the parties."
isOther completely new sections were the "General Purposes" of § 2
and § 2, Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth and Tenth. By Tenth criminal
sanctions were applied to compel carrier compliance with the commands
of Fourth, Fifth, Seventh and Eighth. These subdivisions were concerned with the right of employees to organize and to choose freely
their representatives.
16281 U. S. 548, 569:
"The absence of penalty is not controlling. The creation of a legal
right by language suitable to that end does not require for its effectivenes the imposition of statutory penalties. Many rights are enforced
for which no statutory penalties are provided. In the case of the
statute in question, there is an absence of penalty, in the sense of specially prescribed punishment, with respect to the arbitral awards and

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

its terms a right in employees to participate in an election
under the designation of the Board in accordance with the
authorization of the statute. It was only natural therefore that Congress should assume that where its own
creature, the Mediation Board, was charged with interference with the right of employees by a misconstruction
of the statute under which it existed, that error of law
would be subject to judicial examination to determine
the correct meaning.
Nothing to which our attention has been called appears
in the legislative history indicating a determination of
Congress to exclude the courts from their customary power
to interpret the laws of the nation in cases or controversies
arising from administrative violations of statutory standards. No intention to refuse judicial aid in administration of the Act is apparent. Attention was called just
above to the criminal sanctions written into § 2, Tenth.
In addition provision is made in the Act for judicial review of the orders of the National Railroad Adjustment
Board, § 3, First (p), and board of arbitration awards,
§ 9, Third. Furthermore, the National Mediation Board
has appeared in many court cases, as here, involving its
certifications and so far as appears neither the parties nor
the courts have questioned judicial power."? The Board
the prohibition of change in conditions pending the investigation and
report of an emergency board, but in each instance a legal obligation
is created and the statutory requirements are susceptible of enforcement by proceedings appropriate to each. The same is true of the
prohibition of interference or coercion in connection with the choice of

representatives. The right is created and the remedy exists. MarMadison, 1 Cranch 137, 162, 163."
bury v'.
27 Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. National Mediation Board,
88 F. 2d 757; National Federation of Railway Workers v. National
Mediation Board, 110 F. 2d 529; Order of Railway Conductors v.
National Mediation Board, 113 F. 2d 531. See also Association of
ClericalEmployees v. Railway Clerks, 85 F. 2d 152; Brotherhood of
Clerks v. Virginian Ry. Co., 125 F. 2d 853; Brotherhood of Locomotive

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

Rzin,

319

J., dissenting.

feels that such review has been profitable."

Against these

later facts, the earlier reliance, prior to 1926, on voluntary
action to enforce the railway labor statutes has little
significance.

Nor in view of the statements and the decision in the
Clerks case, do we think that the omission of statutory
review from the provisions of § 2, Ninth, is important.
Firemen & Enginemen v. Keran, 87 F. 2d 651; Nashville, C. & St. L.
Ry. v. Railway Employee' Dept., 93 F. 2d 340; Brotherhood of Clerks
v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 94 F. 2d 97.
28 Annual Report of the National Mediation Board, 1938, p. 5:
"The two cases decided by the courts clarifying the discretion vested
in the National Mediation Board in connection with representation disputes both arose on the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway,
and both were decided by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit. The first case [Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v.
Railway Employees Department,A. F. of L., 93 F. 2d 340] settled the
issue concerning the right of furloughed employees retaining an employment status to vote in representation elections. The second decision [Brotherhood of Clerks v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 94
F. 2d 97] held that the National Mediation Board, when establishing
eligible lists of voters and conducting elections in order to determine the
representative of employees of a carrier by craft or class must do so
with due regard for all of the facts, historical and otherwise, which have
operated to shape the craft or class of employees on the carrier concerned as well as on railroads generally. Both decisions are very helpful to the Board in that they serve to settle issues which, in the past,
have frequently arisen to trouble the orderly and prompt adjustment
of disputes over representation between different factions among
employees."
Id., 1942, p. 7:
"During the 8-year experience of the Board under the representation
provisions of the law it is gratified to be able to report that in all but
a few instances its actions in interpreting and applying these provisions
of the law have been sustained by the courts. In all instances, however,
the Board has benefited by court review and analysis of its actions and
the facts of the disputes. The court rulings and opinions have clarified
and settled many disputed points of the law and the Board's authority.
Thus they constitute a valuable contribution in the solution of labor

dispute&."

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

The requirement of that very subsection that "the carrier shall treat with the representatives so certified" was
construed as an affirmative command open to judicial enforcement without specific statutory authority. Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 544.
Butte, A. & P. Ry. Co. v. United States, 290 U. S. 127, is
cited as authority for a conclusion that delegation of an
administrative duty carries to the appointee the authority
to finally construe the statute since such authority was
" 'essential to the performance of the duty imposed upon
the Commission' and since 'Congress did not provide a
method of review,' the Government, as well as the carrier,
was 'remediless whether the error be one of fact or of law.'"
This was a case in which the Government ordered payments to carriers as compensation for deficits incurred during federal operation of the railways. It was determined
that Congress intended to leave finally the determination
of the beneficiaries to its agent, the Interstate Commerce
Commission. This intention is far easier to deduce when
the Congress is dealing with its own money than where it
creates rights of suffrage for citizens to exercise for the
improvement of their economic condition.
The Virginian Railway case presents a much closer
analogy to the present controversy. As pointed out
above, it dealt with the carrier's duty to "treat with"
employees declared by § 2, Ninth. Employees sought
and obtained a judicial order directing the railroad to
negotiate on the ground that new duties, requirements
and rights were created "mandatory in form and capable
of enforcement by judicial process." Despite the absence of statutory authority for court action it was held
Congress intended legal sanction. A prohibition of negotiation, such as petitioners seek here, is a fortiori, within
judicial competence."9
19Compare

Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381,.

391, where this Court took cognizance of a suit seeking judicial review

SWITCHMEN'S UNION v. BOARD.
297

REED,J., dissenting.

One factor to test the intention of Congress, it is suggested in the M. K. T. opinion of today, post, p. 323, is
whether Congress was willing to crystallize the problem
into "statutory commands." The statutory command
for which determination is sought here is that the Board
exercise its discretion. In the same opinion, it is said,
"the command of the Act should be explicit and the purpose to afford a judicial remedy plain before an obligation enforcible in the courts should be implied." Here,
Congress has unequivocally provided that "employees
shall have the right to organize and bargain collectively
through representatives" chosen by the majority of each
"craft or class." The special competence of the National
Mediation Board lies in the field of labor relations rather
than in that of statutory construction. Of course the
judiciary does not make the administrative determination.
"The functions of the courts cease when it is ascertained
that the findings of the Commission meet the statutory
test." Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 400.
Likewise, the National Mediation Board may be conceded
discretion to make any reasonable determination of the
meaning of the words, "craft or class." Cf. Gray v. Powell,
314 U. S. 402. By requiring a plain sanction for a judicial
remedy, the court authorizes the Mediation Board to
determine not only questions judicially found to be committed to its discretion, as in Gray v. Powell, supra,but the
statutory limits of its own powers as well. It seems more
consonant with the genius of our institutions _ to assume,
of administrative action without such authority in the statute under
attack. See § 6, Bituminous Coal Act, 50 Stat. 85. Review was had
under Judicial Code § 24 (1) and 28 U. S. C. § 380 (a).
10An erroneous order of the Secretary of the Interior was similarly
canceled when, without statutory authority, he struck the name of
an enrollee from the rolls of an Indian Nation. This Court said:
"But, as has been affirmed by this court in former decisions, there is
no place in our constitutional system for the exercise of arbitrary

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REm), J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

not that the purpose to apply a legal sanction must be
plain, but that in the absence of any express provision to
the contrary, Congress intended the general judicial
authority conferred by the Judicial Code to be available
to a union and its members aggrieved by an administrative
order presumably irreconcilable with a statutory right
so explicitly framed as the right to bargain through
representatives of the employees' own choosing.21
The petitioners assert their rights as rights arising under
the Railway Labor Act, which is stated to be a law of the
United States relating to interstate commerce. If this
allegation is correct, and we think it is, there is jurisdiction of the subject matter of the suit under Judicial Code,
§ 24 (8): "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows: . . . Eighth. Of all suits and proceedings arising under any law regulating commerce." The
general purpose of the Act is to avoid interruption to commerce by prohibition of interference with the employees'
freedom of association and by provision for collective
bargaining to settle labor disputes.
This regulates
commerce.
power, and if the Secretary has exceeded the authority conferred upon
him by law, then there is power in the courts to restore the status of
the parties aggrieved by such unwarranted action." Garfield v.
Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, 262. Cf. Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683, 694.
Compare Ickes v. Fox, 300 U. S. 82; West v. Standard Oil Co., 278
U. S.200, 220; Work v. Louisiana, 269 U. S. 250, 254.
f When Congress has intended to bar access to the courts, in whole
or in part, it has understood how to express its determination. Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, § 204, 56 Stat. 23; chap. 335, 23
Stat. 350; § 4 (b), 44 Stat. 828.
2248 Stat. 1185, 1187, § 2:
"First. It shall be the duty of all carriers, their officers, agents, and
employees to exert every reasonable effort to make and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, and working conditions, and to
settle all disputes, whether arising out of the application of such agreements or otherwise, in order to avoid any interruption to commerce or
to the operation of any carrier growing out of any dispute between
the carrier and the employees thereof." See note 5.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 323
297

Syllabus.

The right to select representatives with whom carriers
must bargain was created by the Act and the remedy sought
here arises under that law. Since the cause of action
"had its origin and is controlled by" the Railway Labor Act,
it arises under it. Peyton v. Railway Express Agency, 316
U. S. 350; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38,46; Turner Lumber Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 259, 261;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201.
Since the Court declines federal jurisdiction, it is useless to discuss either the merits or the other procedural
questions such as jurisdiction in equity to grant the injunction requested, the power to vacate the order of the
Mediation Board or the effect of the Norris-La Guardia
Act.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in
this dissent.
GENERAL COMMITTEE OF ADJUSTMENT OF
THE BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS FOR THE MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS
RAILROAD v. MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS RAILROAD CO. Er AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23. Argued October 14, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
Between a labor organization which was the duly designated bargaining representative for the craft of engineers employed by certain
carriers, and another which was the duly designated bargaining
representative for the craft of firemen employed on the same lines,
a dispute arose relative to the calling of men for emergency service
as engineers. Efforts to settle the dispute having failed, the matter
was submitted to the National Mediation Board, and a mediation
agreement between the Firemen and the carriers resulted. The
Engineers then brought an action in the federal District Court for
a declaratory judgment that the agreement was in violation of the
Railway Labor Act and that the Engineers should be declared to be

