422

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Cse.

320 U. S.

301 U. S. 532. But its use in proceedings before the
Board is governed by the circumscribed jurisdiction of
that agency. The Internal Revenue Code, not general
equitable principles, is the mainspring of the Board's jurisdiction. Until Congress deems it advisable to allow the
Board to determine the overpayment or underpayment in
any taxable year other than the one for which a deficiency
has been assessed, the Board must remain impotent when
the plea of equitable recoupment is based upon an overpayment or underpayment in such other year. The judgment of the court below is therefore reversed and that of
the Board of Tax Appeals is affirmed.
Reversed.
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE-PEET CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 38 and 39.

Argued November 8, 1943.-Decided December 13,

1943.
1. The tax imposed by § 602/

of the Revenue Act of 1934 upon

the "first domestic processing" of designated oils applies to the first
domestic processing after the effective date of the Act, even though
there was domestic processing prior to that date. P. 424.
2. The 1936 amendment of § 6021/ does not require a different result.
P. 427.
3. This construction of § 602 is in accord with its legislative history
and its general purpose to promote the interests of domestic oil
producers.

P. 429.

130 F. 2d 913, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 778, to review the affirmance of
judgments, 37 F. Supp. 794, dismissing the complaints in

two suits for the recovery of taxes.

COLGATE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
422

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Mason Trowbridge, with whom Messrs. E. Ennalls
Berl, Albert C. Wall, Blevins C. Dunklin, and Edward J.
O'Marawere on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for the United
States.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
These two writs of certiorari were granted to review a
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit denying recovery to the petitioner of taxes paid
to the United States aggregating $2,532,643.16. The
issues in the two cases are identical. Each case covers
a separate period of time.
The suits were brought in the United States District of
Delaware under Judicial Code § 24 (20). Recovery was
there also denied. We granted certiorari because of a
conflict of decisions. 319 U. S. 778. See Harrison v.
Durkee Famous Foods, 136 F. 2d 303; Loose-Wiles Biscuit
Co. v. Rasquin, 95 F. 2d 438; Tasty Baking Co. v. United
States, 38 F. Supp. 844; Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United
States, 22 F. Supp. 141.
MR. JUSTICE REED

The issue is narrow and may be simply stated.

In the

Revenue Act of 1934, § 6021/p, 48 Stat. 763, an excise tax
was levied on the "first domestic processing" of certain

foreign oils-coconut, sesame, palm, et cetera.

When the

Processing Tax on Certain Oils.
"(a) There is hereby imposed upon the first domestic processing of
coconut oil, sesame oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, or sunflower oil, or of
any combination or mixture containing a substantial quantity of any
148 Stat. 763, § 6021/2.

one or more of such oils with respect to any of which oils there has been
no previous first domestic processing, a tax of 3 cents per pound, to
be paid by the processor.... For the purposes of this section the
term 'first domestic processing' means the first use in the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

Act was approved on May 10, 1934, this petitioner had on
hand large quantities of these oils which had gone through
one or more domestic processings. After the effective
date, all of this oil was subjected to further processing
upon which petitioner paid a tax, recovery of which is
here sought. The taxpayer urges that the taxable event
fixed by the statute is the first domestic processing, without regard to when it occurs. The phrase is defined by
the statute as "the first use in the United States . . . of

the article" taxed. Since the effective date of the Act is
May 10, 1934, the taxpayer concludes that if the first use
in this country occurs after that date, it is a taxable event,
and if it occurs before May 10, 1934, it is not a taxable
event. The Government reads the Act differently. To
it, the Act imposes a tax on the first domestic processing
after the effective 'date of the Act, regardless of the prior
domestic processing . The litigants agree that the section
is not retroactive. The facts are not in dispute.
The section in question does not make clear whether
the "first domestic processing" is the first which takes
place in this country or the first after the passage of the
Act. The definition in § 6021/_ does not aid the interpretation. "First use" may be first after importation or
first after the Act. The likelihood that tax statutes look
to the future and not the past indicates that processings
after the effective date were meant to be taxed. Cf.
Hassett v. Welch, 303 U. S.303; Shwab v. Doyle, 258
U. S. 529. This likelihood does not depend upon any
taxation of a past event but upon the reasonable probability that Congress would wish to tax future processings.
The insertion of the qualifying adjective "first" was probably due to a desire to avoid accumulative taxes on sucin the manufacture or production of an article intended for sale, of the
article with respect to which the tax is imposed, but does not include
the use of palm oil in the manufacture of tin plate."

COLGATE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
422

Opinion of the Court.

cessive processings. Treas. Reg. 48, Art. 1, as amended
by T. D. 4695.
An examination of the general Congressional purposes
intended to be served by the Act will further aid in the
resolution of this dispute. This tax has been held by this
Court to be a valid exercise of the taxing power. Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States, 301 U. S. 308, 312. But
the legislative history cannot be read without reaching a
conviction that the advantages which would result to
American vegetable oil producers from the heavy tax on
oils not produced in the continental United States played
a leading part in promoting the legislation.! Id., 320.
The tax yielded substantial revenues, which were remitted
to the Philippine Government, since the Philippines were
the source of many of the products taxed.
A desire for equality among taxpayers is to be.attributed
to Congress, rather than the reverse. Yet the omission
by Congress of a tax upon the first processing which followed the enactment of the Act would give users of the oils
who had treated them prior to the Act a definite advantage
over their competitors who had not done so. The advantage would be slight if Congress had supposed the tax
would finally be borne by the consumer rather than by the
manufacturer, but here the purpose was to restrict the
domestic market for imported oils, and Congress probably
would not intend that manufacturers should find a market
for the foreign oil at a price enhanced by the full amount
of the tax. Again, if petitioner's argument is sound, the
Congressional purpose to create an advantage for domestic
oil producers would be frustrated to the extent that taxfree foreign oils on hand could continue to compete with
the domestic product. A major purpose of the legislation
would be temporarily defeated in part by freeing from the
tax oil which had received one domestic processing.
2 78 Cong. Rec. 2785, 2793, 2930, 3007, 6311-16, 6380-95, 7246, 7976.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The Treasury promptly interpreted the Act to apply to
all first processings after its effective date. Treas. Reg.
48, Art. 1 (1), August 17, 1934. This action of the Treasury, with its wide experience in tax matters, has weight
in our conclusion, notwithstanding the prompt challenge
of the taxpayer and others similarly situated. United
States v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 549.
In reaching the conclusion that the "first domestic processing" is the first after the passage of the Act, we do not
disregard some circumstances vigorously pressed upon us
by petitioner which give color to the opposite interpretation. The taxpayer points to the fact that the phrase
"first domestic processing" was used earlier in § 9 (a) of
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12, 1933, 48 Stat.
31, 35, which levied a similar processing tax upon the first
domestic processing of the basic agricultural commodities-wheat, cotton, corn, hogs, rice, tobacco and milkand that, at the time this tax was placed on foreign oils, a
regulation of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was
in effect which interpreted the phrase as being the first
domestic processing whenever it occurred and therefore as
relieving a processor of the tax when the first domestic
processing took place prior to the effective date of the
A. A. A. Treas. Reg. 81, as amended, T. D. 4403, November 2, 1933.
The answer to this argument arises from the difference
between the two Acts as to the taxation of floor stocks.
Under the A. A. A. commodities which had undergone their
first domestic processing prior to the passage of the Act
bore a corresponding floor stock tax. 48 Stat. 40, § 16. A
subsequent processing tax would have created double taxation and an inequality among taxpayers which the compensating floor stock tax had obviated. The exemption
of subsequent domestic processing by the Treasury Regulations was thus compelled by the Act itself. Cf. Treas.
Reg. 82, Floor Stocks under the A. A. A. No such provision

COLGATE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
422

Opinion of the Court.

appears in the Revenue Act of 1934 or any later legislation
supplementing § 6021A. Phrases without definite legal
connotation which are alike take their meaning from their
context. The "first domestic processing" of the A. A. A.
naturally refers to the first in point of time to avoid double
taxation, while the same words in this Act just as naturally
refer to the first after the Act to avoid inequalities.
Double taxation does not arise from the later Act.
For a further point, petitioner calls attention to the
action of Congress in amending § 602 in the Revenue
Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1742, by adding fatty acids and salts
derived from the taxed oils with the proviso that the tax
should not apply:
"(1) with respect to any fatty acid or salt resulting from a
previous first domestic processing taxed under this section
or upon which an import tax has been paid under section
601 (c) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1932, as amended, or
(2) with respect to any combination or mixture by reason
of its containing an oil, fatty acid, or salt with respect to
which there has been a previous first domestic processing
or upon which an import tax has been paid under such
section 601 (c) (8)."
This amendment came from the Conference Committee
without comment. H. Rep. No. 3068, 74th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 17. Its origin was in the Senate. The purpose
of the exemption was said to be "to avoid double
taxation." S. Rep. No. 2156, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.,
Title V. Petitioner's contention is that "the Conference
Committee wrote into the amendment two different
clauses, one of them . . . creating an exemption of mixtures and combinations conditioned upon a 'previous
first domestic processing' and the ether creating an
exemption of fatty acids and salts conditioned upon their
'resulting from a previous first domestic processing taxed
under this section.'" Therefore, Congress is said by peti-

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

tioner to have recognized two classes of first domestic
processings; one taxed under the section, the other not
taxed. In the absence of some expression of such intention, however, beyond the words quoted, we are not convinced that the difference in language was meant to
evidence a difference in meaning. Cf. Haggar Co. v. Helvering, 308 U. S. 389, 400. The careful provision requiring payments of applicable import taxes under all conditions tends to the contrary conclusion. We think the
purpose of the 1936 amendment was to add new taxable
articles and to make plain the purpose to free them from
double taxation. If the articles are not exempt from the
3 cent excise because of foreign processing, we see no
reason to. exempt them because of domestic processing
prior to the Act.
Finally we consider petitioner's argument that House
Report (Conference) No. 1385, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 30,
manifests the intention of Congress to tax only the "first
domestic processing" which occurs after the Act when
there has been no previous domestic processing prior to
the Act. This report deals with the Revenue Act of 1934.
The Senate amended the section of the House bill
which taxed foreign oils by the addition of other foreign
vegetable oils and marine oils. The Conference accepted the amendment in regard to the marine oils but
changed "the point of imposition of the tax in the case of
imported whale oil, imported fish oil, and imported marine
animal oil to the importation instead of the first domestic
processing." These were all the marine oils in the Senate
amendment.
By the Conference amendment these marine oils were
placed in an entirely different section, 602, of the Revenue
Act of 1934. It amended 601 (c), Revenue Act of 1932,
which imposed an excise tax on the domestic producer or
the importer of lubricating oils, grain extracts, petroleum,

COLGATE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
422

Opinion of the Court.

coal, lumber, et cetera, by adding these marine oils to the
taxable articles." Regulations treated marine oils upon
the same basis as the other taxed imports in the section."
Consequently marine oils imported prior to the Revenue
Act of 1934 escaped taxation when eventually processed.
This inequality of treatment, under the Government
theory, between importations of vegetable oils and importations of marine oils indicates, says the petitioner, that
the Government is wrong and Congress intended to tax
processing only when a prior domestic processing either
before or after the Act had not occurred. The Conference
change, says petitioner, "was merely a shift of the tax on
these particular oils from the first processing after the entry (the point of imposition under Section 6021/2) to the
entry itself." But though Congress may have been willing
to defer protection of American producers from marine oils,
it nowhere indicated that handlers of other oils already
processed should obtain a trade advantage through
exemption.
We are confronted with an ambiguity of phrase which
yields to the intent of Congress as disclosed by the legislative history. In such circumstances, we follow the general
9 48 Stat. 762, § 602.

Tax on Certain Oils.

"Section 601 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1932 is amended by adding
at the end thereof a new paragraph as follows:
"'(8) Wbale oil (except sperm oil), fish oil (except cod oil, cod-liver
oil, and halibut-liver oil), marine animal oil, and any combination or
mixture containing a substantial quantity of any one or more of such
oils, 3 cents per pound. The tax on the articles described in this paragraph shall apply only with respect to the importation of such articles
after-the date of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1934, and shall
not be subject to the provisions of subsection (b) (4) of this section
(prohibiting drawback) or section 629 (relating to expiration of
taxes)."
' Treasury Department Bureau of Customs Circular Letter, No.
1202, May 11, 1934; T. D. 45751; T. D. 47448.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

purpose of the Act to promote the interests of domestic oil
producers through an excise tax.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. v. HUNT.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST CIRCUIT, OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 29.

Submitted October 20, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.

1. Since each of the States of the Union has constitutional authority
to make its own law with respect to persons and events within its
borders, the full faith and credit clause does not ordinarily require
it to substitute for its own local law the conflicting law of another
State, even though that law is of controlling force in the courts of
that State with respect to the same persons and events. P. 436.
2. Under the full faith and credit clause, judgments are, for most
purposes, upon a footing different from the local law of a State,
when judicial recognition of either is sought in another State.
P. 437.
3. With few exceptions, the full faith and credit clause renders that
which has been adjudicated in one State res judicata to the same
extent in every other. P. 438.
When a state court refuses credit to the judgment of a sister
State, an asserted federal right is denied and the sufficiency of the
grounds of denial are for this Court to determine. P. 443.
These results flow from the unifying purpose of the full faith and
credit clause to give nation-wide effect to rights judicially established in any part of the nation. P. 439.
4. Respondent, resident in Louisiana and there employed by petitioner, was injured in Texas in the course of his employment.
Respondent sought and was awarded compensation under the
Texas Workmen's Compensation Law. Payments were made as
required by the award, which became final. In Texas, a compensation award which has become final is res judicata, and
is entitled to the same faith and credit as a judgment of a
court, and an award may not be had when an employee has

