338

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U.S.

the parties. Any decision on the merits would involve the
granting of judicial remedies which Congress chose not to

confer.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE RFD are of the
view that the Court should entertain jurisdiction of the
present controversy for the reasons set out in the dissent
in Switchmen's Union v. National MediationBoard, ante,
p. 307.
GENERAL COMMITTEE OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS
FOR THE PACIFIC LINES OF SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. ET AL.
NO. 27.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

Argued October 14, 15, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
Upon the authority of General Committee of Adjustment v. MissouriKansas-Texas R. Co., ante, p. 323, and Suitchmen's Union v. National Mediation Board, ante, p. 297, held that the questions in this
case-arising out of a so-called jurisdictional controversy between
labor unions-are not justiciable issues under the Railway Labor
Act and the District Court was without power to resolve them.

P. 343.
132 F. 2d 194, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 736, on cross-petitions to review a
judgment which modified and affirmed a decree determining on the merits a suit for a declaratory judgment.
*Together with No. 41, General Grievance Committee of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen v. General Com-

mittee of Adjustment of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
for the Pacific Lines of Southern Pacific Co. et al, also on certiorari
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. SOU. PAC. CO. 339
338

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Clarence E. Weisell and George M. Naus, with
whom Mr. HaroldN. McLaughlin was on the briefs, for the
General Committee of Adjustment of the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, petitioner in No. 27 and respondent
in No. 41; Mr. Donald R. Richberg, with whom Messrs.
Felix '. Smith and FrancisR. Kirkham were on the brief,
for the General Grievance Committee of the Brotherhood
of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen, petitioner in No.
41 and respondent in No. 27.
Mr. Burton Mason, with whom Messrs. C. W. Durbrow
and Henley C. Booth were on the brief, for the Southern
Pacific Co., respondent in Nos. 27 and 41.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Robert L. Stern filed a
brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance.
MR. JUST=Ci.

DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are companion cases to General Committee of
Adjustment v. Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co., ante, p. 323,
and Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation Board,
ante, p. 297. They are here on a petition and on a crosspetition for writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. No. 41, the cross-petition,
involves a dispute between the collective bargaining representatives of the locomotive engineers and of the locomotive firemen on the Pacific lines of the Southern Pacific
Co. The controversy involves the same basic question
as is present in the Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co. case.
The committee for the engineers (hereinafter called the
Engineers) brought this action for a declaratory judgment
that provisions of a June, 1939 agreement between the carrier and the committee for the firemen (hereinafter called
the Firemen) concerning the demotion of engineers to firemen and the calling of firemen for service as emergency

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

engineers were invalid under the Railway Labor Act. The
courts below undertook to resolve the controversy. See
132 F. 2d 194, 202-206. For the reasons stated in the Missouri-Kansas-Texas R. Co. case we think that the questions are not justiciable issues under the Railway Labor
Act.
The question presented in No. 27 is related to the questions in the other two cases. In the suit brought by the
Engineers (No. 41) a declaratory judgment was also asked
that Article 51, § 1 of the collective bargaining agreement
between the carrier and the Firemen was invalid under the
Railway Labor Act. That section provides: "The right
of any engineer, fireman, hostler or hostler helper to have
the regularly constituted committee of his organization
represent him in the handling of his grievances, in accordance with the laws of his organization and under the
recognized interpretation of the General Committee making the schedule involved, is conceded."
The question whether the Engineers were the exclusive
representatives of engineers in the handling of their individual grievances was the subject of dispute by the Engineers with this carrier and also with the Firemen. It
was one of several subjects on which the Firemen had a
strike ballot taken in 1937. Following the vote to strike,
the President appointed an Emergency BoardI under § 10
of the Act to investigate and report on this and other disputes. The Board reported in 1937. The dispute has
continued to date.
The Engineers and the Firemen are the majority representatives of their rempective crafts under the Act. The
Engineers contend that the Firemen have no right to represent men working as engineers in the handling of individual grievances involving an interpretation of the
collective bargaining agreement which the Engineers ne2The

Board was appointed April 14, 1937, and was composed of

G. Stanleigh Arnold, Charles Kerr, and Dexter M. Keezer.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. SOU. PAC. CO. 341
338

Opinion of the Court.

gotiated. Their position is that under the Act they are
the exclusive representative of the individual engineer
in that class of disputes which he has with the carrier as
well as the exclusive representative of the craft for purposes of collective bargaining. The District Court refused to declare that the inclusion of the word "engineer"
in Article 51, Sec. 1 of the agreement was unlawful under
the Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that
judgment. 132 F. 2d 194-202.
The Engineers place their chief reliance on those provisions of § 2, Fourth which state: (1) that employees
"shall have the right to organize and bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing":; and (2)
that the "majority of any craft or class of employees shall
have the right to determine who shall be the representative
of the craft or class for the purposes of this Act." And it
is pointed out that by reason of § 2, Eighth the provisions
of § 2, Fourth become a part of each contract of employment. Some support is also sought from § 2, Second and
Sixth. The former provides that "all disputes" between
a carrier and its employees shall be considered in conference between representatives of the parties. The latter
provision says that in case of a dispute as to grievances "it
shall be the duty of the designated representative" of the
carrier and of the employees to specify a time and place
for a conference. From these provisions it is argued that
the collective bargaining representative of a craft becomes
the exclusive representative for all purposes of the Actthe protection of the individual's as well as the craft's
interests. On the other hand, the carrier and the Firemen
contend that the Act limits the exclusive representation
of the collective bargaining agent to the interests of the
craft. They contend that this is the true meaning of § 2,
Fourth. They also rely on § 3, First (i) which states that
prior to a reference of disputes between employees and
carriers to the Adjustment Board they "shall be handled

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

in the usual manner up to and including the chief operating officer of the carrier designated to handle such disputes." They claim that "usual manner" means the prior
practice and that that shows a uniform acceptance of the
right of the aggrieved employee to select his own representative. They point out that § 2, Third and Fourth
prohibit the carrier from influencing employees in their
choice of representatives. The argument is that a contract by the carrier with the Engineers giving the latter
th exclusive right to represent engineers in the presentation of their individual claims would in effect coerce all
Engineers into joining that union in violation of § 2, Third
and Fourth.
The parties base their respective arguments not only on
the language of the Act and its legislative history but also
on various trade union practices and analogous problems
arising under the National Labor Relations Act. From
these various materials each seeks to prove that Congress
has fashioned a federal rule (enforcible in the courts) concerning the authority of collective bargaining agents to
represent various classes of employees on their individual
grievances.' All of these would be relevant data for con2 Reference is also made to certain informal rulings by the National Mediation Board that the individual employee has the right
under the Act to select his own representative in such a case. And
considerable stress is given to the following statement of the Emergency
Board, supra note 1, appointed in 1937:
"This legislation was enacted for the purpose of protecting national
transportation against the consequences of labor disputes between
carriers and their employees. It was devised by representatives of
management, the employees, and the public. It secured the benefits
of unhampered collective bargaining to the several crafts or classes
engaged in the work of railway transportation. When a craft or class,
through representatives chosen by a majority, negotiates a contract
with a carrier, all members of the craft or class share in the rights
secured by the contract, regardless of their affiliations with any organization of employees. It is clearly provided that these rights may be
protected by negotiation or by the several methods of adjustment

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. SOU. PAC. CO. 343
338

Opinion of the Court.

struction of the Act if the courts had been entrusted with
the task of resolving this type of controversy. But we do
not think they were.
We have here no question involving the representation
of individual employees before the National Railroad Adjustment Board." We are concerned only with a problem
of representation of employees before the carriers on certain types of grievances' which, though affecting individuals, present a dispute like the one at issue in the
Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co. case. It involves, that is
to say, a jurisdictional controversy between two unions.
It raises the question whether one collective bargaining
agent or the other is the proper representative for the
presentation of certain claims to the employer. It involves a determination of the point where the exclusive
jurisdiction of one craft ends and where the authority of
another craft begins. For the reasons stated in our opinions in the Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co. case and in the
established by the Act. It is true that the representatives of the
majority represent the whole craft or class in the making of an agreement for the benefit of all, but it is equally true that nothing in the Act
denies the right to any employee, or group of employees, to enforce
through representatives of his or their own choosing, his or their rights
under any such agreement. The whole spirit and intention of the Act
is contrary to the use of any coercion or influence against the exercise
of an individual's liberty in his choice of representatives in protecting
his individual rights secured by law or contract."
aThe Act provides for proceedings before the Adjustment Board in
disputes growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules or working conditions. § 3, First (i). In such cases the parties "may be heard either
in person, by counsel, or by other representatives, as they may
respectively elect." § 3, First (j).
4These do not include personal injury claims and the like. They
embrace claims which though strictly personal arise out of and involve
an interpretation of the collective bargaining agreement which the
Engineers negotiated and under which the individual engineer is
working.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

Switchmen's case, we believe that Congress left the socalled jurisdictional controversies between unions to agencies or tribunals other than the courts. We see no reason
for differentiating this jurisdictional dispute from the
others. Whether different considerations would be applicable in case an employee were asserting that the Act
gave him the privilege of choosing his own representative
for the prosecution of his claims is not before us.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED are of

the

view that the Court should entertain jurisdiction of the
present controversies for the reasons set out in the dissent
in Switchmen's Union v. NationalMediation Board, ante,
p. 307.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION v.
C. M. JOINER LEASING CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 18, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
1. The transactions involved in this case were not simply sales and
assignments of interests in land, but by the nature of the offers were
within the terms "investment contracts" and "any interest cr
instrument commonly known as a 'security,'" and were therefore
sales of "securities" within the meaning of § 2 (1) of the Securities
Act of 1933. P. 351.
2. The ejusdem generis rule and the maxim expressio wiius e:;'
exclusio alterius are subordinate to the doctrine that courts will
construe the details of an Act in conformity with its dominating
general purpose, will read text in the light of context, and, so far as
the meanings of the words fairly permit, will interpret the text so
as to carry out in particular caseb the generally expressed legislative
policy. P. 350.

