410

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

When the Commission requires the applicant under the
grandfather clause to limit its future operations to the
type of equipment and service previously offered, it acts
within its power and in accord with the purpose of Congress to maintain motor transportation facilities appropriate to the needs of the public. S. Rep. No. 482, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess. If there is a need for a different type of
service for this transportation, applications may be filed
under § 307.

Affirmed.

ESTATE OF ROGERS ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 66. Argued November 18, 19, 1943.-Decided December 6, 1943.
1. The value of property in respect of which a decedent exercised
by will a general power of appointment, held, under § 302 (f) of
the Revenue Act of 1926, includible in his gross estate for the purpose of the federal estate tax, without deduction for any property
appointed to persons who (under the will of the creator of the
power) would have come into enjoyment of other interests in the
property had the power not been exercised. P. 413.
2. Whether under § 302 (f) there has been a "passing" of property
by a testamentary exercise of a general power of appointment is a
federal question, once state law has made clear that the appointment had legal validity and brought into being new interests in
property. P. 414.
3. Helvering v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153, distinguished. P. 415.
135 F. 2d 35, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 210, to review the reversal of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which determined

that there was an overpayment of estate tax.
Mr. John W. Drye, Jr.for petitioners.

ESTATE OF ROGERS v. COMMISSIONER. 411
410

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Sewall Key, J.
Louis Monarch, and Alvin J. Rockwell were on the brief,

for respondent.
Mr. William G. Heiner filed a brief on behalf of Thomas
D. Allison, Administrator, as amicus curiae, in support of
petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case requires us to determine whether and what
interests that came into enjoyment upon the death of
the donee of a general power of appointment should be included for federal estate tax purposes in the donee's gross
estate. § 302 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1926, c. 27, 44
Stat. (part 2) 9, 71, as amended by § 803 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 279, 26 U. S. C.
§ 811 (f).
The problem arises from the following circumstances.
Rogers Sr. gave his son, the decedent, a general testa-

mentary power of appointment over certain property,
with limitations in default of the appointment to'the
heirs, under New York law, of the son. On the son's
death these heirs were his widow, a daughter and a son,
to each of whom would have come upon default one-third
of the property. However, the decedent did exercise his
power. His will, as determined by a decree of the Surrogate's Court of the County of New York, New York (New
York Law Journal, November 9, 1938, p. 1542, and 170
Misc. 85, 9 N. Y. S. 2d 586), created the following interests
so far as here relevant: a fraction of the appointable property, 6.667%, went in three equal shares to the widow,
the daughter, and a grandson; of the balance, two equal
shares were put in trust for the benefit of the widow and
daughter, respectively, while the other third was ap-

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

pointed outright to the grandson. The decedent made no
appointment to his son.
In determining the value of the gross estate, the Commissioner included the value of all property of which
decedent disposed by appointment. He did so by applying the direction of § 302 of the Revenue Act of 1926,
whereby
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his death
of all property
"(f) To the extent of any property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent (1)
by will . . ." 44 Stat. (part 2) 9, 70-71, as amended by
§ 803 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169,
279, 26 U. S. C. § 811 (f).
The Board of Tax Appeals reduced the value of his gross
estate by excluding the value of the property which passed
to the widow and daughter.' It did so on the ground that
that which came to these two under the power was less
in value than would have come to them under the will
of the donor of the power had that power not been exercised by the donee. On review the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the Board and reinstated the deficiency determined by the Commissioner,
taxing all the property which the decedent appointed.
Two of the judges expressed distinct views, the third concurred in the result without joining either of his brethren.
135 F. 2d 35. Because of the importance of the issue to
the administration of federal estate taxation as well as
to settle an asserted conflict between the Second Circuit
"The Board of Tax Appeals bad originally taken a different view.

Leser v. Commissioner, 17 B. T. A.266, 273. But Helvering v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153, led it to change its view. Webster v. Commissioner,
38 B. T. A. 273, 284-289.

ESTATE OF ROGERS v. COMMISSIONER. 413
410

Opinion of the Court.

and the Third and Fourth Circuits (Rothensies v. FidelityPhiladelphiaTrust Co., 112 F. 2d 758; Legg's Estate v.
Commissioner, 114 F. 2d 760, and see Lewis v. Rothensies,
138 F. 2d 129), we brought the case here. 320 U. S. 210.
. We agree with the decision below. A contrary view
would mean that the decedent did nothing so far as he
created interests for his widow and daughter, although
undeniably the donee, by his will, exercised his power of
appointment. Nothing of a taxable nature happened, it
is urged, no property "passed" through this exercise of his
power because by his will the donee gave interests to appointees who, if he had not exercised the power, would
have come into enjoyment of interests in the property
though to be sure other interests than the donee saw fit
to give them.
The argument derives from considerations irrelevant
to the ascertainment of the incidence of the federal estate
tax. In law also the right answer usually depends on
putting the right question. For the purpose of ascertaining the corpus on which an estate tax is to be assessed,
what is decisive is what values were included in dispositions made by a decedent, values which but for such dispositions could not have existed. That other values,
whether worth more or less as to some of the beneficiaries,
would have ripened into enjoyment if a testator had not
exercised his privilege of transmitting property does not
alter the fact that he and no one else did transmit property
which it was his to do with as he willed. And that is
precisely what the federal estate tax hits-an exercise of
the privilege of directing the course of property after a
man's death. Whether for purposes of local property law
testamentary dominion over property is deemed a "special" or a "general" power of appointment, Morgan v.
Commissioner,309 U. S. 78; whether local tax legislation
deems the appointed interest to derive from the will of
the donor or that of the donee of the power, Matter of

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Duryea, 277 N. Y. 310, 14 N. E. 2d 369; whether for some
purposes in matters of local property law title is sometimes
traced to the donee of a power and for other purposes to
the donor, cf. Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466, 474, are
matters of complete indifference to the federal fisc.
Whether by a testamentary exercise of a general power
of appointment property passed under § 302 (f) is a question of federal law, once state law has made clear, as it has
here, that the appointment had legal validity and brought
into being new interests in property. See Helvering v.
Stuart, 317 U. S. 154. Were it not so, federal tax legislation would be the victim of conflicting state decisions on
matters relating to local concerns and quite unrelated to
the single uniform purpose of federal taxation. Lyeth v.
Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 191-194. In taxing "property passing under a general power of appointment exercised . . .
by will," Congress did not deal with recondite niceties of
property law nor incorporate a crazy-quilt of local formalisms or historic survivals. "The importation of these
distinctions and controversies from the law of property
into the administration of the estate tax precludes a fair
and workable tax system." Helvering v. Hallock, 309
U. S. 106, 118. Congress used apt language to tax dispositions which came into being by the exercise of a testamentary privilege availed of by a decedent and which in
no other way could have come into being. Such is the
present case. To bring about the results which decedent
sought to bring about, he had to deal with the whole of the
corpus over which he had the power of disposition. To
give what he wanted to give and to withhold what he
wanted to withhold, Rogers Jr. had to do what he did.
And so what is taxed is what Rogers Jr. gave, not what
Rogers Sr. left. The son's appointees got what they got
not because he chose to use one set of words rather than
another set of words, but because he willed to give them
the property that he willed. If the result of his testa-

ESTATE OF ROGERS v. COMMISSIONER. 415
410

Dissent.

mentary disposition is to subject .his beneficence to the
estate tax, that is always the effect of an estate tax.
Nothing that was decided or said in Helvering v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153, stands in the way of this conclusion.
Where a donee of a power merely echoes the limitations
over upon d~fault of appointment he may well be deemed
not to have exercised his power, and therefore not to have
passed any property under such a power. That case is a
far cry from this. To suggest that all the property necessary to effectuate the arrangements made by decedent's
will did not constitute property passing under his testamentary power would disregard the fact that he had
complete dominion over this property and disposed of all
of it as his fancy, not at all as his father's will, dictated.
Indulgence of that testamentary fancy to the full extent
assessed by the Commissioner is what § 302 (f) taxes.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

and

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting:

We are of opinion that the judgment should be
reversed.
This litigation is concerned only with the tax to be paid
on the exercise of the testamentary power which purported
to give outright to decedent's wife and daughter, each,
about 7% of one-third of the trust fund created under the
earlier will and the income for life from the remainder of

that third, instead of the outright gift of a full one-third
of the trust fund which, in default of appointment, each
was entitled to receive under the earlier and then operative
will.
The only effect of the exercise of the power upon the
shares of the wife and daughter was to diminish the gifts

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Dissent.

320 U. S.

which they were already entitled to receive under the
earlier will. The Board of Tax Appeals has found that,
as a result of the exercise of the power, the value of the
property which the two appointees will receive is less than
each was entitled to receive under the first will, which
fixed their rights as legatees subject only to exercise of
the power.
We think that neither the history nor the words of the
taxing statute justify any assumption that in enacting a
tax on testamentary gifts it was the purpose of Congress
to tax also the exercise of a testamentary power to deprive
a legatee of part of his legacy in addition to taxing the use
of the power to appoint that part to a third person. The
statute lays a tax on gifts such as the earlier will in this
case made to the wife and to the daughter and as now interpreted the statute imposes a second tax on the testamentary exercise of the power to diminish the gifts previously
made to them by will. Authority for so incongruous a
result is found in the provisions of §302 (f) of the Revenue
Act of 1926, which directs the inclusion in the decedent's
estate for taxation, of "the value" of property "to the extent of any property passing under a general power of
appointment" exercised by a decedent. The statute thus
selects property values passing under the exercise of a
power of appointment as the measure of the tax. It gives
no indication that beyond this it is concerned with the
technical quality of estates passing under either the will
or the subsequent exercise of the power. And, unlike later
amendments to the estate tax statute, Revenue Act of
1942, §403, 56 Stat. 942; cf. 26 U. S. C. § 811 (d), it taxes
not the mere existence of a power to affect the disposition
of property, but its exercise to bestow on the appointee
such property values.
Looking to the words of the statute in the light of its
purpose, we think that the effective operation of the exer-

ESTATE OF ROGERS v. COMMISSIONER. 417
410

Dissent.

cise of the power to transfer property values was the intended subject of the tax, and not a use of the power which
adds nothing to, but subtracts from, gifts already made
and subject to taxation. This Court so stated in Helvering
v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153. We can hardly suppose that a
purported exercise of a power to make to the wife and
daughter gifts, identical with those to which they were
already entitled under the will, or to appoint to a third
person an interest less than the whole in the shares given
to them by the will, would result in a tax on the shares
which the wife and daughter were permitted to retain.
To say that such a tax must be imposed because by a
different form of words the same end is attained, is to sacrifice substance to form in the application of a taxing statute
which is concerned only with substance, the effective transfer of property values to an appointee. Helvering v. Grinnell, supra, 156; Rothensies v. Fidelity-PhiladelphiaTrust
Co., 112 F. 2d 758; Legg's Estate v. Commissioner, 114 F.
2d 760. We have too often committed ourselves to the
proposition that taxation is a practical matter concerned
with substance rather than form, see Bowers v. KerbaughEmpire Co., 271 U. S. 170, 174; Chase National Bank v.
United States, 278 U. S. 327, 336; Corliss v. Bowers, 281
U. S. 376, 378; Griffiths v. Commissioner, 308 U. S. 355,
357-8; Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 116-19; Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, 116-19, to depart from it
now.

