CAFETERIA UNION v. ANGELOS.
277

Statement of the Case.

prudence from certain less desirable ones. The legislative
power to restrain the liberty and to imperil the good reputation of citizens must not rest upon the variable attitudes and opinions of those charged with the duties of
interpreting and enforcing the mandates of the law. I
therefore cannot approve the decision of the Court in
this case.
MR. JuSTIcE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE REED and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLED= join in this dissent.

CAFETERIA EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 302, ET AL.
v. ANGELOS
NO. 36.

ET Al,

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF
NEW YORK.*

Argued November 8, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
1. In the circumstances of this case, the state court's broad injunction
against picketing of places of business by members of a labor organization infringed the constitutional guarantee of freedom of
speech. P. 295.
2. A State can not, by drawing the circle of economic competition between employers and workers so small as to contain only an employer and those directly employed by him, exclude workmen in a
particular industry from presenting their case to the public in a
peaceful way. P. 296.
3. The right to peaceful picketing can not be taken away merely because in the course of the picketing there may have been isolated
incidents of abuse falling far short of violence. Drivers' Union v.
Meadowmoor Co., 312 U. S. 287, distinguished. P. 296.
289 N. Y. 498, 507, 46 N. E. 2d 903, 908, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 778, to review affirmances of de-

crees granting injunctions against picketing. See also 264
App. Div. 708,34 N. Y. S. 2d 408.
Together with No. 37, Cafeteria Employees Union, Local 302, et al.
v. Teakirea et al., also on writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals of
New York.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

Mr. Louis B. Boudin for petitioners.
Mr. Abraham Michael Katz submitted for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We brought these two cases here to determine whether
injunctions sanctioned by the New York Court of Appeals
exceeded the bounds within which the Fourteenth Amendment confines state power. 319 U. S. 778. They were
argued together and, being substantially alike, can be disposed of in a single opinion.
We start with the Court of Appeals' view of the facts.
In No. 36, petitioners, a labor union and its president,
picketed a cafeteria in an attempt to organize it. The cafeteria was owned by the respondents, who themselves conducted the business without the aid of any employees.
Picketing was carried on by a parade of one person at a
time in front of the premises. The successive pickets were
"at all times orderly and peaceful." They carried signs
which tended to give the impression that the respondents
were "unfair" to organized labor and that the pickets had
been previously employed in the cafeteria. These representations were treated by the court below as knowingly
false in that there had been no employees in the cafeteria
and the respondents were "not unfair to organized labor."
It also found that pickets told prospective customers that
the cafeteria served bad food, and that by "patronizing" it
"they were aiding the cause of Fascism."
The circumstances in No. 37 differ from those in No. 36
only in that pickets were found to have told prospective
customers that a strike was in progress and to have
"insulted customers . . . who were about to enter" the
cafeteria. Upon a finding that respondents required
equitable relief to avoid irreparable damages and that
there was no "labor dispute" under the New York analogue

CAFETERIA UNION v. ANGELOS.
293

295

Opinion of the Court.

of the Norris-La Guardia Act (ยง 876-a of the New York
Civil Practice Act), the trial court enjoined petitioners in
broad terms from picketing at or near respondents' places
of business. The decrees were affirmed by the Appellate
Division (264 App. Div. 708, 34 N. Y. S. 2d 408), and were
finally sustained by the Court of Appeals, its Chief Judge
and two Judges dissenting. 289 N. Y. 498, 507, 46 N. E.
2d 903.
In Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468, this Court
ruled that members of a union might, "without special
statutory authorization by a State, make known the facts
of a labor dispute, for freedom of speech is guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution." 301 U. S. at 478. Later cases
applied the Senn doctrine by enforcing the right of workers
to state their case and to appeal for public support in an
orderly and peaceful manner regardless of the area of immunity as defined by state policy. A. F. of L. v. Swing,
312 U. S. 321; Bakery Drivers Local v. Wohl, 315 U. S.
769. To be sure, the Senn case related to the employment
of "peaceful picketing and truthful publicity." 301 U. S.
at 482. That the picketing under review was peaceful
is not questioned. And to use loose language or undefined slogans that are part of the conventional give-andtake in our economic and political controversies--like
"unfair" or "fascist"-is not to falsify facts. In a setting
like the present, continuing representations unquestionably false and acts of coercion going beyond the mere influence exerted by the fact of picketing, are of course not
constitutional prerogatives. But here we have no attempt
by the state through its courts to restrict conduct justifiably found to be an abusive exercise of the right to picket.
We have before us a prohibition as unrestricted as that
which we found to transgress state power in A. F. of L. v.
Swing, supra. The Court here, as in the Swing case, was
probably led into error by assuming that if a controversy
does not come within the scope of state legislation limit-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

ing the issue of injunctions, efforts to make known one
side of an industrial controversy by peaceful means may
be enjoined. But, as we have heretofore decided, a state
cannot exclude working men in a particular industry from
putting their case to the public in a peaceful way "by
drawing the circle of economic competition between employers and workers so small as to contain only an
employer and those directly employed by him." A. F. of
L. v. Siwing, 312 U. S. at 326.
The present situation is thus wholly outside the scope
of the decision in Milk Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Co., 312 U. S. 287. There we sustained the equity
power of a state because the record disclosed abuses
deemed not episodic and isolated but of the very texture
and process of the enjoined picketing. But we also made
clear "that the power to deny what otherwise would be
lawful picketing derives from the power of the states to
prevent future coercion. Right to free speech in the
future cannot be forfeited because of dissociated acts of
past violence." 312 U. S. at 296. Still less can the right
to picket itself be taken away merely because there may
have been isolated incidents of abuse falling far short of
violence occurring in the course of that picketing.
The judgments must be reversed and the causes returned to the state court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

