YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CITY OF YONKERS

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

T AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 109.

Argued December 13, 14, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.

1. In a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission upon
the application of a carrier, under § 1 (18)-(20) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, for a certificate authorizing abandonment of part
of its lines, the jurisdiction of the Commission being challenged
under § 1 (22) of the Act-which provides that the authority of
the Commission to permit abandonment of lines "shall not extend"
to "street, suburban, or interurban electric railways, which are not
operated as a part or parts of a general steam railroad system of
transportation"--the Commission should make jurisdictional findings; and, in the absence of such findings, an order granting the
certificate should, on review, be set aside. P. 689.
2. A proper regard for local interests in the management of local
transportation facilities requires that federal power be exercised
only where the statutory authority affirmatively appears. P. 691.
50 F. Supp. 497, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges,
refusing to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. John J.Broderick, with whom Mr. Leonard G.
McAneny was on the brief, for the City of Yonkers; and
Mr. Horace M. Gray for John W. Tooley, Jr.,-appellants.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Walter J.Cummings, Jr.and Daniel W.
Knowlton were on the brief, for the United States et al.;
and Mr. Harold H. McLean, with whom Mr. Thomas P.
Healy was on the brief, for the New York Central Railroad Co.,-appellees.
Mi.

JusIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Interstate Commerce Act confers upon the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to issue certificates

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S

of public convenience and necessity allowing any carrier
subject to the Act to abandon "all or any portion" of its
line of railroad. § 1 (18), (19), (20), 49 U. S. C. § 1 (18),
(19), (20), 24 Stat. 379,41 Stat. 477-478. But the Act also
provides that that authority of the Comnission "shall not
extend" to the abandonment "of street, suburban, or interurban electric railways, which are not operated as a part
or parts of a general steam railroad system of transportation." § 1 (22), 49 U. S. C. § 1 (22).
The New York Central Railroad Co. filed an application
with the Commission for a certificate under § 1 (18)-(20)
of the Act authorizing it to abandon an electric branch
line extending 3.1 miles from Van Cortlandt Park Junction, New York City, to Getty Square, Yonkers, New York.
This line was constructed in 1888 by a predecessor company for the purpose of developing suburban business between Yonkers and New York City. The line was
electrified in 1926 with the hope that the surburban business would increase. It is now a physical part of the New
York Central's Putnam Division with which it connects at
Van Cortlandt Park Junction. The Putnam Division in
turn connects with the Hudson Division which is part of
the main line of the New York Central from New York
City to Chicago. The Hudson Division follows the east
bank of the Hudson River through Yonkers to Albany.
The Putnam Division extends north from Sedgwick Avenue and West 161st Street, New York City, through Yonkers to Brewster, New York. The Putnam Division lies
east of, and is roughly parallel with, the Hudson Division.
In the City of Yonkers the two divisions are about a mile
apart. The electric line in question is between the Hudson and Putnam Divisions. Getty Square, its terminal in
Yonkers, is .3 mile east of the Yonkers station on the
Hudson Division. The New York Central system is for
the most part operated by steam. Some portions of its
lines are electrified, including the Hudson Division be-

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

Opinion of the Court.

tween New York City and Harmon, New York, and Harlem
Division so far as White Plains, New York, the Putnam
Division between Sedgwick Avenue and Van Cortlandt
Park Junction, and the Yonkers line in question. With
the exception noted, no part of the Putnam Division is
electrified, its trains being operated by steam.
This Yonkers electric branch handles no freight, mail,
express, or milk traffic and no industries are dependent
on it for such service. Its traffic is exclusively passenger
traffic, principally commuter travel between Getty Square
and three other stations in'Yonkers and Grand Central
Station in New York City. The trains serving stations
on this Yonkers electric branch do not go through to Grand
Central Station on account of the congested condition of
the main-line tracks funnelling into Grand Central Station.
Accordingly, these trains run only from Getty Square to
Van Cortlandt Park Junction and thence over the main
line of the Putnam Division to the terminal at Sedgwick
Avenue. Passengers from Yonkers to Grand Central Station must transfer to Hudson Division trains at either
High Bridge or University Heights stations which are
north of the Sedgwick Avenue Station. Tariffs of the
New York Central provide for one-way, monthly-commutation, and other tickets usable between the stations in
Yonkers and Grand Central Station. Time tables of the
New York Central disclose the service on this electric
branch. And its operating results are reflected in the
accounts of the New York Central.
The trains running on this electric branch are composed
of two, three or four cars. The trains are hauled not by
a locomotive but by so-called multiple unit cars. The
structure of the line is such that locomotives cannot be
used on it. The trains on this electric branch proceed
only to Getty Square, Yonkers, and not beyond.
The Commission though adverting to a number of the
facts which we have mentioned did not address itself to

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the question whether this electric branch line was or was
not "operated as a part or parts of a general steam railroad system of transportation" within the meaning of
§ 1 (22). The Commission did not undertake to review
the evidence relevant to that issue. It made no findings
respecting it. It authorized the abandonment on the
grounds that continued operation would impose "an undue and unnecessary burden" upon the New York Central
and upon interstate commerce.' The Commission says
that the question of its jurisdiction under § 1 (22) was
neither presented in limine nor urged in the briefs, in the
exceptions to the examiner's report, or in the oral arguments. It was, however, presented in petitions for reconsideration which the Commission denied without opinion.
This suit to enjoin the order of the Commission, brought
before a District Court of three judges (38 Stat. 219, 220,
28 U. S. C. § 47) was initiated by the Public Service Commission of New York, the City of Yonkers, and a committee of Yonkers commuters." The jurisdiction of the
Commission was challenged before the District Court.
And that objection which was overruled there (50 F. Supp.
497) has been renewed on the appeal which brings the
case here. 28 U. S. C. § 47a, § 345.
The District Court in sustaining the order of the Commission, reviewed the evidence and concluded that the
operation of this electric branch was "intertwined with the
operation of the system as a whole." It relied especially
on the fact that the bulk of the traffic on this electric
branch transfers at High Bridge or University Heights
I The certificate authorizes a complete abandonment of the Yonkers
branch, including dismantlement and salvaging.
2The Public Service Commission of New York, which took the lead
in attacking the order of the Commission before the District Court
but which has not appeared here, asserted in its complaint that authority to discontinue the four stations was required by New York law
but had not been sought or obtained.

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

Opinion of the Court.

to the Hudson Division and that those transfers made it
necessary for the New York Central to provide seats on
the Hudson Division trains for all the transferred Yonkers
passengers for the remaining short run to Grand Central
Station.
The Commission itself has noted that in the "construction of these exclusion clauses great difficulty has been
experienced, particularly in determining the roads properly classifiable as interurban electric railways." Annual
Report (1928), p. 80. That difficulty is apparent here by
the division of opinion which exists in the Court whether
this Yonkers branch is an "interurban electric" railway
which is "operated as a part" of the New York Central
system. § 1 (22). As stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis
in United State. v. Idaho, 298 U. S. 105, 109, the determi-

nation of what is included within the exemption of § 1 (22)
involves a "mixed question of fact and law." Congress
has not left that question exclusively to administrative
determination; it has given the courts the final say. Id.,
p. 109. It is settled that the aid of the Commission need
not be sought before the jurisdiction of a court is invoked
to enjoin violations of the provisions in question. Texas
& PacificRy. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266.

And the fact that the Commission fails to make a finding
on this jurisdictional question obviously does not preclude
the reviewing court from making that determination initially. But we deem it essential in cases involving a
review of orders of the Commission for the courts to decline to make that determination without the basic
jurisdictional findings first having been made by the
Commission.
aCf. Piedmont & Northern R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 286 U. S. 299, 307, and United States v. ChicagoNorth Shore

& M. R. Co., 288 U. S. 1, 9-12, which emphasize in determining the
status of independent electric roads the dominance of interurban passenger service and the preponderance of local traffic.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The power of the Commission to control the abandonment of intrastate branches of interstate carriers stems
from the power of Congress to protect interstate commerce
from undue burdens or discriminations. Colorado v.
United States, 271 U. S. 153; Transit Commission v.
United States, 284 U. S. 360; Purcell v. United States,
315 U. S. 381. And see United States v. Hubbard, 266
U. S.474, for an application of the doctrine of the Shreveport case (Houston, E. & W. T. R. Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 342) to the intrastate rates of interurban electric
railroads. The exemptions contained in § 1 (22) do not
necessarily reflect the lack of constitutional power to deal
with the excepted phases of railroad enterprise. Underlying § 1 (22) is a Congressional policy of reserving exclusively to the States control over that group of essentially local activities. See H. Rep. No. 456, 66th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 18. We recently stated that the extension
of federal control into these traditional local domains is
a "delicate exercise of legislative policy in achieving a
wise accommodation between the needs of central control
and the lively maintenance of local institutions." Palmer
v. Massachusetts,308 U. S.79, 84. In the application of
the doctrine of the Shreveport case, this Court has required
the Commission to show meticulous respect for the interests of the States. It has insisted on a "suitable regard
to the principle that whenever the federal power is exerted
within what would otherwise be the domain of state
power, the justification of the exercise of the federal power
must clearly appear." Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.
194, 211-212. In that case this Court set aside an intrastate rate order of the Commission because of the "lack
of the basic or essential findings required to support the
Commission's order." Id., p. 215. The principle of the
Floridacase is applicable here. The question is not merely
one of elaborating the grounds of decision and bringing
into focus what is vague and obscure. See United States

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

Opinion of the Court.

v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499. Cf.
Securities & Exchange Commission v. Chenery Corp., 318
U. S. 80. Here as in the Florida case the problem is
whether the courts should supply the requisite jurisdictional findings which the Commission did not make and
to which it even failed to make any reference."
Congress has withheld from the Commission any power
to authorize abandonment of certain types of railroad
lines. It is hardly enough to say that the Commission's
orders may be set aside by the courts where the Commission exceeds its authority. The Commission has a special
competence to deal with the transportation problems
which are reflected in these questions. The Congress has
entrusted to the Commission the initial responsibility for
determining through application of the statutory standards the appropriate line between the federal and state
domains. Proper regard for the rightful concern of local
interests in the management of local transportation facilities makes desirable the requirement that federal power
be exercised only where the statutory authority affirmatively appears. The sacrifice of these legitimate local
interests may be as readily achieved through the Commission's oversight or neglect (Illinois Commerce Commission
v. Thomson, 318 U. S. 675) as by improper findings. The
insistence that the Commission make these jurisdictional
4For cases dealing with the exception of suburban or interurban
electric railways where the Commission has passed on the jurisdictional
question see In the Matter of Michigan United Rys. Co., 67 I. C. C.
452; Abandonment of Line by Boise Valley Traction Co., 79 I. C. C.
167; Proposed Abandonment by Lewiston & Youngstown Frontier
Ry. Co., 124 I. C. C. 219; Proposed Construction by Piedmont &
Northern Ry. Co., 138 I. C. C. 363, 372; Unified Operation at Los
Angeles Harbor, 150 I. C. C. 649, 661; Glendale & Montrose Ry. Proposed Abandonment, 166 I. C. C. 625.
The requisite finding was made by the Commission in the Oregon
Short Line case (193 I. C. C. 697, 705) in which the order of the
Commission was set aside by United States v. Idaho, supra.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FhAxKrurm, J., dimenting.

320 U. S.

findings before it undertakes to act not only gives added
assurance that the local interests for which Congress expressed its solicitude will be safeguarded. It also gives
to the reviewing courts the assistance of an expert judgment on a knotty phase of a technical subject.
We are asked to presume that the Commission, knowing
the limit of its authority, considered this jurisdictional
question and decided to act because of its conviction that
this branch line was not exempt by reason of § 1 (22).
But that is to deal too cavalierly with the Congressional
mandate and with the local interests which are pressing
for recognition. Where a federal agency is authorized to
invoke an overriding federal power except in certain prescribed situations and then to leave the problem to traditional state control, the existence of federal authority to
act should appear affirmatively and not rest on inference
alone.
This is not to insist on formalities and to burden the
administrative process with ritualistic requirements. It
entails a matter of great substance. It requires the Commission to heed the mandates of the Act and to make the
expert determinations which are conditions precedent to
its authority to act.
We intimate no opinion on the merits of the controversy. For in absence of the requisite jurisdictional findings we think the order of the Commission should have
been set aside.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting:
Congress has empowered the Interstate Commerce
Commission to authorize a railroad, when public convenience permits, to abandon any portion of its line. But
when such portion is a suburban or interurban electric railway, abandonment may be authorized only if it is part of
a general steam railroad system of transportation.

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

FMnNxrmu, J., dissenting.

§ 1 (18) and (22) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (18) and (22). This Court has
held that whether such a line is of a character to permit
abandonment under federal authority need not be determined in the first instance by the Interstate Commerce
Commission; and such determination when made does
not foreclose an independent judicial judgment. Texas
& PacificRy. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F.Ry. Co., 270 U. S.266,
and United States v. Idaho, 298 U. S.105. On such an
independent examination of the issue the court below
had no doubt that the Yonkers branch of the New York
Central, the portion of the Central lines for which abandonment was here sought, was not "a suburban or interurban line unconnected with the rest of the Central's railroad system" but was in fact "intertwined with the operation of the [New York Central Railroad] system as a
whole." 50 F. Supp. 497, 498. The record amply sustains this conclusion. If this Court, however, on its own
estimate of the various elements in the financial, physical
and transportation relations between the rest of the New
York Central lines and this Yonkers branch, had struck
a contrary balance and found that the Yonkers branch
was not operated as a part of the general New York Central system, I should not have deemed the matter of sufficient importance to warrant expression of dissent.
But the Court does not decide on the merits. In effect,
it remits the controversy to the Interstate Commerce
Commission on the ground that the Commission did not
make a formal finding, described as "jurisdictional," that
the Yonkers branch was in fact "operated as a part ...
of a general steam railroad system of transportation."
The Commission may very well now formally make such a
finding of a connection between the Yonkers branch and
the New York Central, which in fact is writ large in the
Commission's report in granting the application for abandonment, and the weary round of litigation may be re-

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxFuRTER,

J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

peated to the futile end of having this Court then, forsooth, express an opinion on the merits opposed to that of
the Commission and the District Court. This danger if
not likelihood of thus marching the king's men up the hill
and then marching them down again seems to me a mode
of judicial administration to which I cannot yield concurrence. I think the case should be disposed of on the
merits by affirming the judgment of the District Court.
This seems to me all the more called for since I find no
defect in the foundation of the Commission's order. No
doubt the Interstate Commerce Commission like other
administrative agencies should keep within legal bounds
and courts should keep them there, in so far as Congress
has entrusted them with judicial review over administrative acts. Of course when a statute makes indispensable
"an express finding," an express finding is imperative,
see Wichita Railroad & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 59. But the history of the Interstate Commerce Act and its amendments illumine the different legal functions expressed by the term findings.
When Congress exacts from the Commission formal findings there is an end to the matter. For certain duties of the
Commission and at certain stages in the history of the Interstate Commerce Act, Congress did require formal findings, but experience led Congress later to dispense with
such formal requirements. See Manufacturers Ry. Co.
v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 489-90. But courts have
also spoken of the need of findings as the basis of validity
of an order by the Interstate Commerce Commission in
the absence of a Congressional direction for findings. The
requirement of findings in such a context is merely part
of the need for courts to know what it is that the Commission has really determined in order that they may know
what to review. "We must know what a decision means
before the duty becomes ours to say whether it is right or

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

wrong." See United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R.
Co., 294 U. S.499, 509-511.
This is the real ground for the decisions which have
found Interstate Commerce Commission orders wanting
in necessary findings. They have all been cases where
the determination of an issue is not open to independent
judgment by this Court, and where the case as it came here
rested on conflicting inferences of fact left unresolved by
the Commission. Such were the circumstances, for instance, in Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.194, particularly at 214-215, and United States v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co., 293 U. S.454, 455, particularly at 463-464. Findings in this sense is a way of describing the duty of the
Commission to decide issues actually in controversy before it. Analysis is not furthered by speaking of such
findings as "jurisdictional" and not even when-to adapt
a famous phrase-jurisdictional is softened by a quasi.
"Jurisdiction" competes with "right" as one of the most
deceptive of legal pitfalls. The opinions in Crowell v.
Benson, 285 U. S. 22, and the casuistries to which they
have given rise bear unedifying testimony of the morass
into which one is led in working out problems of judicial
review over administrative decisions by loose talk about
jurisdiction.
The nub of the matter regarding the requirement of
findings, where the formal making of them is not legislatively commanded, is indicated in United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70. Reviewing the validity of the Commission's order is the serious business of sitting in judgment upon a tribunal of great traditions and large responsibility. An order of the Commission should not be
viewed in a hypercritical spirit nor even as though elegantia juris were our concern. We should judge a challenged
order of the Commission by "the report, read as a whole,"
290 U. S. supra at 80, and by the record as a whole out of
which the report arose.

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FwAxar=r

, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

Viewing its order in this light makes plain enough why
the Commission never formally stated that the line which
it authorized to be abandoned was in fact operated as part
of the New York Central system. It never formally made
this statement because it was never questioned before it.
On the face of the application, in the report proposed by
the Commissioner's examiner, and in the report of the
Commission, by Division 4, authorizing the issuance of a
certificate of abandonment, the facts showing that the
Yonkers branch was a part of the operating system of the
New York Central are set forth in detail. Extensive exceptions were taken to the examiner's report by the City of
Yonkers and a committee of Yonkers commuters but not
even remotely did they take the point which is now made
the ground for invalidating the Commission's order.
Elaborate petitions for rehearing were filed by the protestants, including the Public Service Commission of New
York, as the guardian of the local interests of New York,1
but not one of these petitions raised the objection now
raised. The jurisdiction of the Commission was questioned, but no claim was made that the Yonkers branch
was not an operating part of the New York Central. The
City of Yonkers enumerated four grounds in challenging
1 Due

concern for local interests in the administration of the Interstate Commerce Act hardly calls for an exaggerated concern for formal
findings. The Interstate Commerce Act relies primarily on state authorities for the safeguarding of local interests. It is therefore relevant to note that the New York Public Service Commission, which
is charged with the duty of protecting the local interests of New
York against federal encroachments and which does not appear to
have been unalert in doing so, has acquiesced in the decision below
and is not here urging the local interest on which the decision of this
Court seems to be based. That the state agency had best be looked
to for the vindication of conflicting local interests within a state is
well illustrated by the fact that while the City of Yonkers protested
against the abandonment of the branch line, the City of New York
urged it.

YONKERS v. UNITED STATES.
685

FRANXFUrSR,

J., dissenting.

the jurisdiction of the Commission, but it did not specify
the one now taken by the Court. The committee of commuters rested their claim of want of jurisdiction on the
specific grounds that "(1) the line sought to be abandoned
is an interurban electric passenger railway located wholly
within the State of New York and (2) . . . the alleged

annual operating deficit" of the Yonkers branch was too
insignificant to burden the operation of the New York
Central. Exercising the discretion which Congress explicitly conferred upon it, the full Commission denied the
petition for rehearing. Interstate Commerce Act, § 17
(6). In any fair construction of the action of the Commission such a denial is an adverse finding of such claims
as were made in the petitions for rehearing. The crucial
fact is that only when the present bill was filed in the court
below did the objection which the Court now sustains
emerge in the specific claim that the Yonkers "branch is not
operated as a part or parts of a general steam railroad
system of transportation."
Can there be any doubt that this contention was not put
to the Commission because it was an afterthought? This
issue was never tendered to the Commission because the
facts which deny it were never questioned in the proceedings conducted before it with vigor and ability by several
protestants during the three successive stages that
preceded a challenge in the courts.
The case is now sent back to the Commission. The
facts regarding the relation of the Yonkers branch to the
New York Central are spread at large upon the record and
are not in controversy. In view of the three proceedings
before the Commission it is reasonable to assume that the
Commission will add to its report the formal finding now
requested of it. If the case then returns here I find it too
hard to believe that this Court would reject the conclusion
of the Commission and of the lower court that the Yonkers branch is an operating part of the New York Central

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

698

Statement of the Case.

320 U. S

within § 1 (22). Is not insistence on such an empty formalism a reversion to seventeenth century pleading which
required talismanic phrases, as for instance that a seller
could not be held to warrant that he sold what he purported to sell unless the buyer pleaded warrantizandovendidit or barganizasset? On the other hand, if the Court
with all the facts before it does not think the Yonkers
branch is a part of the railway operations of the New York
Central, now is the time to say so.
MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in this
opinion.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PACE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 117. Argued December 13, 1943.--Decided January 10, 1944.
1. Under the Act creating the Board of Tax Appeals for the District
of Columbia, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has
power to review decisions of the Board conformably to the equity
practice, that is, on both the facts and the law, subject to the rule
that findings of fact are treated as presumptively correct and are
accepted unless clearly wrong. P. 702.
2. Upon review of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals for the District of Columbia, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
had power to set aside a finding by the Board that the domicile of a
decedent was in the District of Columbia, which the court found to
be clearly wrong, and to find that the domicile was in Florida.
P. 703.
3. The provisions for review in the Act creating the Board of Tax
Appeals for the District of Columbia were not superseded by Rule
52 of the Rules of Civil Procedure. P. 702.
77 U. S. App. D. C. 332, 135 F. 2d 249, affirmed.

post, p. 726, to review the reversal of a deciof Tax Appeals for the District of
Board
sion of the
Columbia sustaining an inheritance tax.
CERTIORARI,

