UNITED STATES v. GASKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. GASKIN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 68. Argued December 7, 8, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. It is an offense under § 269 of the Criminal Code to arrest a person
with intent to hold him in peonage. P. 528.
That the person shall have rendered service in consequence of
the arrest is not an element of the offense.
2. The rules requiring definiteness and strict construction of a criminal
statute do not require distortion or nullification of its evident meaning and purpose. P. 529.
50 F. Supp. 607, reversed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment of the District Court sustaining a demurrer to an
indictment.

Mr. W. Marvin Smith, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant .ttorney General Berge, Messrs. Oscar
A. Provost and George Earl Hoffman, and Miss Beatrice
Rosenberg were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Marion B. Knight, with whom Messrs. A. L. Brogden and Harley Langdale were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An indictment was returned against the appellee in
the District Court for Northern Florida which charged
that he arrested one Johnson "to a condition of peonage,"
upon a claim that Johnson was indebted to him, and with
intent to cause Johnson to perform labor in satisfaction
of the debt, and that he forcibly arrested and detained
Johnson against his will and transported him from one
place to another within Florida. There was no allegation

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

that Johnson rendered any lalbor or service in consequence
of the arrest. From a judgment sustaining a demurrer,1
the United States appealed.2
The charge is laid under § 269 of the Criminal Code,
which is: "Whoever holds, arrests, returns, or causes to
be held, arrested, or returned, or in any manner aids in
the arrest or return of any person to a condition of peonage, shall be fined . . .or imprisoned . . ."

The District Court held that the statute imposes no
penalty for an arrest with intent to compel the performance of labor or service unless the person arrested renders
labor or service for a master following the arrest.
We think this was error. Section 269 derives from § 1
of the Act of March 2, 1867,' which abolished and prohibited the system known as peonage in any territory or
state, nullified any law, ordinance, regulation, or usage inconsistent with the prohibition, and added criminal sanctions in the language now constituting § 269. The Act
was passed further to implement the Thirteenth Amendment and is directed at individuals whether or not acting
under color of law or ordinance.5
The section makes arrest of a person with intent to
place him in a state of peonage a separate and independent
offense. It penalizes "whoever holds, arrests, returns, or
causes to be held, arrested, or returned . . . any person to
a condition of peonage." The language is inartistic.
The appropriate qualifying preposition for the word
"holds" is "in." An accurate qualifying phrase for the
150 F. Supp. 607.
2
Pursuant to the Criminal Appeals Act, 18 U. S. C. § 682.
8 18 U. S. C. § 444.
' 14 Stat. 546.
aClyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.207, 218; Bailey v. Alabama,
219 U. S.219, 241; United States v. Reynolds, 235 U. S.133; Taylor v.
Georgia,315 U. S.25.

UNITED STATES v. GASKIN.
527

Opinion of the Court.

verb "arrests" would be "to place in or return to" peonage.
But the compactness of phrasing and the lack of strict
grammatical construction does not obscure the intent of
the Act. Years ago this Court indicated that the disjunctive phrasing imports that each of the acts,-holding,
arresting, or returning,-may be the subject of indictment
and punishment. We think that view is sound apart
from any consideration of the legislative history of the enactment. But when viewed in its setting no doubt of the
purpose of the statute remains.
The Act of 1867 was passed as the result of agitation in
Congress for further legislation because of the use of
federal troops to arrest persons who had escaped from a
condition of peonage.! The first section abolished and
prohibited peonage and made certain practices in connection therewith criminal. The second section imposed
a duty on all in the military and civil service to aid in the
enforcement of the first, and provided that if any officer
or other person in the military service should offend
against the Act's provisions he should, upon conviction
by a court martial, be dishonorably dismissed from the
service.' It is plain that arrest for the purpose of placing a
person in or returning him to a condition of peonage was
one of the evils to be suppressed.
The appellee invokes the rule that criminal laws are to
be strictly construed and defendants are not to be convicted under statutes too vague to apprise the citizen
of the nature of the offense. That principle, however,
v. United States, supra, 218, 219.
7Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 74, Pt. 1, pp. 239-241.
Ibid. Vol. 76, Pt. 3, p. 1571. Senate Report No. 156, 39th Cong.,
2d Sess., pp. 325, 326.
8This section became § 5527 of the Revised Statutes and was repealed and regnacted in part by § 270 of the Criminal Code. See
18 U. S. C. § 445.
6 Clyatt

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Muamrr, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

does not require distortion or nullification of the evident
meaning and purpose of the legislation.'
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting:

WTe are dealing here with a criminal statute, the penalties of which circumscribe personal freedom. Before we
sanction the imposition of such penalties no doubts should
exist as to the statutory proscription of the acts in question. Otherwise individuals are punished without having
been adequately warned as to those actions which subjected them to liability.
It is doubtful whether an arrest not followed by actual
peonage clearly and unmistakably falls within the prohibition of §269 of the Criminal Code. The court below, at least, felt that the statute did not cover such a
situation. Other judges have expressed similar doubts.
United States v. Eberhart, 127 F. 252; dissenting opinion
in Taylor v. United States, 244 F. 321, 332, 333. And in

order to reach the opposite conclusion, this Court labels
the statutory language as "inartistic" and as lacking in
"strict grammatical construction." It then proceeds to
rewrite the statute, in conformity with what it conceives
to have been the original intention of Congress, so as to
penalize "whoever . . . arrests . . . any person for the

purpose of placing him in a condition of peonage." I
cannot assent to this judicial revision of a criminal law.
Congress alone has power to amend or clarify the criminal
sanctions of a statute.
Apologia for inadequate legislative draftsmanship and
reliance on the admitted evils of peonage cannot replace
the right of each individual to a fair warning from Congress as to those actions for which penalties are inflicted.
Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S. 124, 128; United States v. Giles,

300 U. S. 41, 48; United States v. Raynor, 302 U. S. 540, 552.

UNITED STATES v. HARK.
527

Counsel for Parties.

Punishment without clear legislative authority might
conceivably contain more potential seeds of oppression
than the arrest of a person "to a condition of peonage."

UNITED STATES v. HARK ET AL., CO-PARTNERS,
BUSINESS AS LIBERTY BEEF CO.

DOING

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 83.

Argued December 8, 9, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.

1. Neither the District Court nor this Court has power to extend the
time within which appeals may be taken under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 533.
2. A formal judgment signed by the judge-rather than a statement
in an opinion or a docket entry-is prima facie the decision or
judgment in respect of which the time for appeal under the Criminal
Appeals Act begins to run. P. 534.
3. In the circumstances of this case, held that the formal order signed
by the judge and entered of record-rather than an earlier opinion
or docket entry-was the judgment fixing the date from which the
time for appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act ran, and the appeal
here was timely. P. 535.
4. An order granting a defendant's motion to quash, the effect of
which is to bar prosecution for the offense charged, is appealable
under the Criminal Appeals Act as a judgment "sustaining a special
plea in bar." P. 535.
5. Revocation of a price regulation issued pursuant to the Emergency
Price Control Act of 1942, held not a bar to an indictment and
prosecution for a violation committed when the regulation was in
force. P. 536.
49 F. Supp. 95, reversed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from an order
granting the defendants' motion to quash the indictment.

Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, and Messrs. CharlesH.

