222

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the order denying the
application for the writ of habeas corpus.
The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and
the petition for certiorari are therefore granted and the
judgment is reversed for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Petitioner's applications for
other relief are denied.
So ordered.
HUNTER COMPANY, INC. v. McHUGH, COMMISSIONER OF CONSERVATION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 25. Argued October 18, 19, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
1. The only order of the State Commissioner of Conservation which
was before the state courts in this case having been superseded
by later orders, the cause has become moot so far as it is concerned with the original order; and this Court, in reviewing on
appeal the judgment of the highest court of the State, is not free to,

and will not, adjudicate the constitutionality of the later orders,
where the state court has had no opportunity to pass upon their
validity under state law or the Federal Constitution. P. 226.
2. A State has constitutional power to regulate production of oil and
gas so as to prevent waste and to secure equitable apportionment
among landholders of the migratory gas and oil underlying their
land, fairly distributing among them the costs of production and of
the apportionment. P. 227.
3. Upon the record in this case, Act No. 157 of the Louisiana Acts of
1940 can not be held invalid on its face. P. 228.
Dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment, 202 La. 97, 11 So. 2d 495,
which, reversing a decision of a lower state court, sustained
the constitutional validity, as applied to the appellant, of
an order promulgated by the State Commissioner of Conservation under authority of a state statute providing for
regulation of the production of oil and gas.

HUNTER CO. v. McHUGH.
222

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Joe T. Cawthorn and John M. Madison, with
whom Mr. C. Huffman Lewis was on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. George A. Wilson and T. Hale Boggs, with
whom Messrs. Arthur O'Quin and M. C. Thompson were
on the brief, for the Commissioner of Conservation; and
Mr. Arthur O'Quin, with whom Messrs. M. C. Thompson
and Leon O'Quin were on the brief, for the Southern
Production Co.,-appellees.
Messrs. J. Howard Marshall and Robert E. Hardwicke
filed a brief on behalf of Harold L. Ickes, Petroleum Administrator for War, as amicus curiae,supporting the constitutionality of the state Act.
PEE CURIAM.

Appellant is the lessee under an oil and gas lease of 190
acres in the Logansport Field in Louisiana. Under permit from the state it has drilled a well on the leased area,
which was completed about June 1, 1938, and came into
production in December, 1940. To enable it to reach a
market for the natural gas produced by this well, appellant has constructed and owns a pipe line which extends
from its well to the line of the United Gas Pipe Line
Company.
"For the prevention of waste and to avoid the drilling
of unnecessary wells," ยง 8 (b) of Act No. 157 of the Louisiana Acts of 1940, authorizes the State Commissioner
of Conservation to establish drilling units for any oil or
gas pool, except "where conditions are such that it would
be impracticable or unreasonable to use a drilling unit at
the present stage of development." The statute defines
a drilling unit as "the maximum area which may be efficiently and economically drained by one well."
Section 9 (a) provides that where a drilling unit embraces separately owned tracts the owners may agree to

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320U.S.

pool their interests, but provides that in default of such
agreement "the Commissioner shall, if found by him to
be necessary for the prevention of waste or to avoid the
drilling of unnecessary wells, require such owners to do
so and to develop their lands as a drilling unit"; such
orders "shall be made after notice and hearing, and shall
be upon terms and conditions which are just and reasonable, and will afford to the owner of each tract the opportunity to recover or receive his just and equitable share of
the oil and gas in the pool without unnecessary expense."
The section also provides:
"The portion of the production allocated to the owner
of each tract included in a drilling unit formed by a pooling order shall, when produced, be considered as if it had
been produced from such tract by a well drilled thereon.
In the event such pooling is required, the cost of development and operation of the pooled unit chargeable by the
operator to the other interested owner or owners shall be
limited to the actual expenditures required for such purpose, not in excess of what are reasonable, including a reasonable charge for supervision. In the event of any
dispute relative to such costs, the Commissioner shall
determine the proper costs, after due notice to all interested parties and hearing thereon."
Proceeding under Act No. 157, the Commissioner, after
notice and hearing, on October 16, 1941, promulgated
Order No. 28-B, which designated drilling units of 320
acres for the production of gas from the Logansport Field,
allowed the drilling of only one well on each such unit,
required the operator of a well drilled before the effective
date of the order to designate his drilling area, required
him to account to each owner or lessee of land within the
unit for the oil and gas produced, and provided for a
bi-monthly determination by the Commissioner of the
amount of the allowable gas production for each unit.

HUNTER CO. v. McHUGH.
222

225

Opinion of the Court.

The order also authorized the Commissioner, upon a showing by any operator that any part of the order as applied
to his well "will result in waste, or as to such operator is
unreasonable" to make an exception to the directions of
the order, provided that such exception "will not result
in waste in the field as a whole" or give the operator an
"inequitable and unfair advantage over another operator
or other operators in the field."
Less than thirty days after the promulgation of this
order, no application having been made by an adjacent
landowner to require pooling, appellant, without having
designated a drilling unit or made application to the Commissioner to make an exception to the order, brought the
present suit in the Louisiana civil district court to enjoin
the enforcement of Act No. 157 and of order No. 28-B or
any similar order. By its bill of complaint appellant
asserted that the order was invalid under the state constitution and laws, and violated the Fourteenth Amendment in that it made no provision for the payment to
appellant of the reasonable value of its lease and for
reimbursing it for the cost of development of the gas,
including the cost of drilling its well and laying its pipe
line.
The Civil District Court held Act No. 157 and order No.
28-B as applied to appellant to be null and void and enjoined enforcement of the Act and order or any similar
order against appellant. The Supreme Court of Louisiana, 202 La. 97, 11 So. 2d 495, set this judgment aside and
ordered the complaint dismissed. It held that the order
was a valid exercise of state power to prevent future waste
of a natural resource of the state and that under the provisions of ยง 9 (a) of the Act and of the order appellant was
entitled to retain its proportionate share of the gas, and
to reimburse itself from the proceeds of all the gas for the
proportionate share of the cost of drilling and operation
changeable to the other landowners in the drilling unit.

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The case comes here on appeal under ยง 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. ยง 344 (a), appellant assigning
as error that the Act and order deprive it of property without due process of law by compelling it to combine its
leasehold with the land of others within the drilling unit
for the purpose of gas production and to share with them
its pipe line and other facilities for the production and
marketing of gas, for which no compensation is provided
by the Act or order.
After the appeal was docketed in this Court appellee
Southern Products Co., which had been allowed to intervene in the state courts, moved to dismiss the appeal as
moot by reason of the promulgation by the Commissioner
of new orders No. 28-C and No. 28-C-10, which operated
to supersede order No. 28-B so far as applicable to appellant's leasehold. Order No. 28-C prescribed enlarged
drilling units comprising 640 acres for the Logansport
Field. It made other provisions not now material for the
regulation of production applicable to the prescribed units.
A later order, No. 28-C-10, designated appellant as the
operator of a unit and directed that it should be entitled
to receive and retain all proceeds derived from the sale of
the product of the well after deduction of royalties and
costs of production until it should have recovered the costs
of drilling and equipping the well and laying and operating the pipe line, and that the balance of the proceeds
should be distributed among the landholders within the
unit, including appellant, in proportion to their acreage
within the unit.
Order No. 28-C was promulgated on February 10, 1942,
before the judgments of both the Civil District Court on
February 26, 1942 and the Louisiana Supreme Court on
November 30, 1942. Although no reason appears why its
invalidity could not have been urged before those courts,
the order is not in the record and does not appear to have
been considered by either state court. Order No. 28-C-10

HUNTER CO. v. McHUGH.
222

Opinion of the Court.

was promulgated on February 25, 1943, after the decision
and judgment of the Louisiana Supreme Court. The
only order before the state courts was No. 28-B, to which
alone their decisions relate and to which alone appellant's
assignments of error in this Court are directed. Its operation has been superseded by orders No. 28-C and No.
28-C-10, under which it appears that both the Commissioner and appellant are now proceeding as controlling
the operation of appellant's well, and those orders were
not before the state courts or considered by them.
The cause has thus become moot so far as it is concerned
with order No. 28-B and this Court, in reviewing on appeal
the judgment of the State Supreme Court is not free to,
and will not adjudicate the constitutionality of orders
No. 28-C and No. 28-C-10 where the state court whose
judgment is under review has had no opportunity to pass
upon their validity under state law or the Constitution
of the United States. See McGoldrick v. Compagnie
Generale,309 U. S. 430,433 et seq.
A minority of the Court are of opinion that in these
circumstances there is no outstanding order which this
Court can review and that the appeal should for that
reason alone be dismissed.
In the present posture of the record, so far as the appeal
seeks to bring before us for review the judgment of the
state court sustaining the constitutionality of the statute,
the record presents no substantial federal question. We
have held that a state has constitutional power to regulate
production of oil and gas so as to prevent waste and to
secure equitable apportionment among landholders of
the migratory gas and oil underlying their land, fairly
distributing among them the costs of production and of
the apportionment. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 61, 77; Bandini Petroleum Co. v. Superior
Court, 284 U. S. 8, 22; Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission, 286 U. S. 210, 232-4; Thompson v.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

Consolidated Gas Corp., 300 U. S. 55, 76-7; Pattersonv.
Stanolind Oil & Gas Co., 305 U. S. 376, 379, and cases
cited. On this appeal, absent from the record any operative order implementing Act No. 157, we cannot say that
the application of the Act can be enjoined as invalid on
its face, for we cannot say that no order could be made by
the Commissioner which would apportion the production
and distribute the costs of production and of the apportionment in a manner which would be consonant both with
the requirements of the statute and the Federal Constitution, compare Pattersonv. Stanolind Oil & Gas Co., supra,
with Thompson v. Consolidated Gas Corp., supra. It
will be time enough to consider the constitutionality of
any particular apportionment and distribution of costs
when we have before us the specific provisions of an order
directing them which has been subjected to the scrutiny
of the state court. See BandiniPetroleum Co. v. Superior
Court, supra.
The appeal will be dismissed for want of a properly
presented substantial federal question.
So ordered.
MEREDITH ET AL. v. WINTER HAVEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 42. Argued October 22, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
1. Where a federal court has jurisdiction of a case, though solely by
diversity of citizenship, the difficulties of ascertaining what the state
courts may thereafter determine the state law to be do not in themselves afford a sufficient ground for declining to exercise the jurisdiction. P. 234.
So held in respect of a suit instituted in a federal district court in
Florida, the decision of which was concerned solely with the extent
of the liability of a Florida municipality upon its refunding bonds.
2. In the absence of some recognized public policy or defined principle
guiding the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred, which would in

