368

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION E AL. V.
HOBOKEN MANUFACTURERS' RAILROAD CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 43. Argued November 9, 1943.-Decided December 6, 1943.
Appellee, a terminal switching railroad, maintained with trunk lines
joint rates on traffic which it interchanged with (inter alia)
Seatrain. Much of the traffic so interchanged moved on lighteragefree rates, under which appellee was obligated to load and unload
cars at shipside. Seatrain operated vessels on which it transported
loaded railroad cars. By Seatrain's method, cars were loaded on
and unloaded from its vessels by means of a cradle; and the necessity and expense of loading and unloading freight to and from the
cars, usual on interchange with other water carriers, were eliminated. Under a contract between them, appellee made payments to Seatrain in respect of interchanged traffic moving on
lighterage-free rates, the payments approximating the cost of
unloading or loading freight cars. In 1936 appellee filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint seeking an increase
of its divisions of the joint lighterage-free rates and an adjustment
with respect to traffic moving on Commission-prescribed rates subsequent to the filing of the complaint, so as to compensate it for
its contract payments to Seatrain. The Commission found that
appellee's divisions with the payments to Seatrain excluded were
"not unjust, unreasonably low, inequitable, or unduly prejudicial";
that the corresponding divisions received by the trunk lines were
"not unjust, unreasonably high, inequitable, or unduly preferential
of them"; and dismissed the complaint. Held:
1. Although Seatrain's service has since February, 1942, been
discontinued, the complaint sought adjustment of divisions received
on Commission-prescribed rates subsequent to its filing, and to that
extent at least the case is not moot. P. 376.
2. The Commission's findings that appellee's transportation
service with respect to carload freight interchanged with Seatrain
begins and ends at Seatrain's cradle; that the rail lines perform the
interchange transportation service covered by their tariffs "when
they place the cars in or take them from the Seatrain cradle"; and
that consequently the payments made by appellee to Seatrain
"cover no part of its transportation service under the lighterage-

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

369

Syllabus.

free rates and are in addition to the full costs of that service,"
are supported by evidence. P. 377.
3. The Commission's determination of the point in time and
space at which a carrier's transportation service begins or ends is
an administrative finding which, if supported by evidence, is conclusive on the courts. P. 378.
4. Appellee is entitled to receive by way of divisions only its just
and equitable share of the proceeds of the joint rail transportation
service rendered, and can not claim as a part of its share the costs
of a service which is not a part of the rail service called for by the
joint rates. P. 379.
5. From the Commission's finding that the loading and unloading
of its vessels is incident to Seatrain's transportation service, it
follows that Seatrain is entitled to compensation therefor in its
tariffs, which if inadequate may be increased, rather than through
participation, by way of allowances paid to it by appellee, in the
proceeds of a joint rail service of which it performs no part. P. 379.
6. Whether the payments to Seatrain induced the performance
of an interchange service resulting in savings to the rail carriers is
irrelevant to a determination of divisions of the joint rates for the
rail service of which the ship loading and unloading service performed by Seatrain is not a part. P. 380.
7. Section 15 (6) of the Interstate Commerce Act, which authorizes the division of joint rates applicable to a transportation service,
contemplates only the apportionment of the proceeds of that service
among the parties to it and not the compensation of others for a
service not covered by the joint rates to be divided. P. 380.
8. Prescription by the Interstate Commerce Commission of divisions of joint rates is not a mere partition of property, but is an aspect
of the general rate policy which Congress has directed the Commission to establish and administer in the public interest. At least
where the Commission prescribes for the complaining party a fair
return for the transportation service which it renders, the question as to what is a proper division is one for the Commission's
discretion, reviewable only for unreasonableness, departure from
statutory standards, or lack of evidentiary support, P. 381.
9. The Commission's determinations of rate policy in this case
can not be set aside as arbitrary or as resulting in unjust divisions.
P. 382.
10. The Commission's refusal to include in appellee's divisions
payments which were voluntarily made to Seatrain does not constitute confiscation of appelee's property. P. 382.
47 F. Supp. 779, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment of a District Court of three
judges setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. Willis T. Pierson, with whom Messrs.
Thomas P. Healy, FrancisR. Cross, Joseph F. Eshelman,
and R. Aubrey Bogley were on the brief, for the Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad Co. et al.,-appellants.
Mr. ParkerMcCollester, with whom Mr. Wilbur LaRoe,
Jr.was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal under 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 345, from a
judgment by which the District Court for New Jersey,
three judges sitting, set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, 47 F. Supp. 779.
The question is whether appellee, a terminal switching
rail carrier, is entitled to an increase in the divisions which
it now receives out of joint class and commodity freight
rates maintained by it and numerous trunk line carriers,
appellants here, on traffic interchanged by appellee at Hoboken, New Jersey, with Seatrain Lines, Inc., a common
carrier by water. The answer depends upon whether the
Commission is required to treat as part of appellee's costs
of performing its carrier service as prescribed by the joint
rates, allowances paid by appellee for services performed
by Seatrain in effecting the interchange. The Commission's order dismissed a complaint by which appellee
sought to have the Commission prescribe for it increased
divisions.' 234 I. C. C. 114. The order, reviewable by
the District Court, is reviewable by this court on appeal.
Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 229, 237-40;

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

Opinion of the Court.

Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349,
358; Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307
U. S. 125, 142.
Appellee, Hoboken Manufacturers' Railroad Company,
operates a terminal switching line extending along the
waterfront of Hoboken, New Jersey, for a distance of 1.632
miles. It connects with the Erie Railroad and over it with
other trunk lines reaching New York Harbor. Numerous
piers on New York Harbor are served by Hoboken, at
which the vessels of various steamship lines regularly
dock, including those of Seatrain.
Seatrain is a common carrier by water, subject to the
Commission's jurisdiction under § 1 (la) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (la), by reason of its control of Hobo!-en. Investigation of Seatrain Lines, Inc.,
195 1. C. C. 215, 206 I. C. C. 328. Since 1932 it has operated vessels in which it transports freight in loaded railroad cars between Hoboken, New Jersey, Havana, Cuba,
and Belle Chasse, Louisiana, a point on the Mississippi
River near New Orleans. The loaded cars which it transports are placed upon standard gauge railroad tracks
located upon four decks of the Seatrain vessels. In loading
the vessel, each car is switched onto a track located on a
cradle placed alongside the vessel. An overhead crane
lifts the cradle containing the car, swings it over the
vessel and lowers it through a hatch to the appropriate
deck where the car is moved onto one of the railroad
tracks on the deck.
In unloading the procedure is reversed. Each car is
moved from the deck track onto the cradle. The cradle
containing the car is then lifted by the crane and placed
on the dock alongside the vessel where the car is switched
by Hoboken over its own tracks to a connecting trunk line
over which it proceeds to its rail destination. By this
operation the expense is avoided of loading and unloading
freight into and from the cars at shipside, ordinarily inci-

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

dent to exchange of traffic between rail and water
carriers.
In 1932 Seatrain secured control of Hoboken by the acquisition of all of its shares of capital stock except the
qualifying shares of five directors, and the two corporations were brought under the management of common
officers. In 1936 Hoboken filed a complaint with the
Interstate Commerce Commission under §§ 1 (4) and 15
(6) alleging that the divisions it was receiving out of joint
class and commodity rates maintained by it and the trunk
lines, appellants here, on carload rail traffic interchanged
with Seatrain were too low, and asking an increase. It
also sought adjustment of all divisions with respect to such
traffic moving under rates prescribed by the Commission
subsequent to the date of filing the complaint.
Part of the traffic interchanged with Seatrain moves on
so-called lighterage-free rates, and part on non-lighteragefree rates. Under the lighterage-free rates the rail carriers obligate themselves to place freight within reach of
ship's tackle, and to receive freight at the foot of ship's
tackle-an obligation which normally requires unloading
and loading of cars and may also require lighterage and
various other services. Hoboken has generally provided
for this loading and unloading service by contract with
the steamship companies with which it interchanges
traffic. The work is done with steamship stevedore labor
for which Hoboken has paid the steamship companies
at the rate of approximately 75 cents a ton. Under nonlighterage-free rates the shipper performs or provides for
necessary loading or unloading of cars, in which case Hoboken has only a switching service to perform.
On carload traffic interchanged with water carriers other
than Seatrain's and moving on lighterage-free rates, which
is loaded or unloaded by Hoboken or at its expense, Hoboken's division of the joint through rate has been $1.35
per ton. On carload traffic moving to and from Hoboken
on non-lighterage-free rates, which is loaded or unloaded

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

by the shipper or consignee or at his expense, Hoboken's
division has been 60 cents per ton.'
Since November, 1932, which was shortly after Seatrain
acquired stock ownership control of Hoboken, it has paid
to Seatrain a tonnage allowance on interchanged freight
other than coal. At first 40 cents a ton, the allowance on
lighterage-free freight was, in 1937, increased to 73 cents
a ton, which is the approximate cost of loading or unloading carload freight. At the same time the 40 cents allowance on non-lighterage-free freight was abolished. Upou
Seatrain freight moving on lighterage-free rates, the trunk
lines accord to Hoboken a 60 cents per ton switching division, the same as for freight moving on non-lighteragefree rates, since with the one as with the other there is no
necessity for the car loading service.
In the proceedings before the Conunission Hoboken
asked for the existing division of 60 cents per ton out of
non-lighterage-free rates and for an increase to $1.35 per
ton in its division out of lighterage-free rates on traffic interchanged with Seatrain, on the ground that its tonnage
allowances to Seatrain are a part of its costs of performing
its rail transportation service with respect to the Seatrain
traffic, and that in any case the trunk lines, parties to the
joint rates, are benefited by Seatrain's shiploading devices
to the extent that the rail carriers are relieved of the 75
cents per ton loading and unloading charge which they
would otherwise incur.
The Commission rendered its report after a full hearing
at which evidence was taken.' It found from the evidence
These divisions have been increased by 5 or 10%, depending on the
commodity shipped, as a result of a general rate increase authorized
in Fifteen Percent Case, 1937-1938, 226 I. C. C. 41.
2 For prior reports of the Commission dealing with various aspects
of Seatrain's method of operation see Investigation of Seatrain Lines,
Inc., 195 I. C. C. 215, 206 1. C. C. 328; Seatrain Lines v. Akron, C. & Y.
Ry. Co., 226 I. C. C. 7, 243 I. C. C. 199; Hoboken Mfrs. R. Co. v.
Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 237 I. C. C. 97, 248 I. C. C. 109.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

that Seatrain had established its shiploading devices at
large expense and had by their adoption made unnecessary,
in the interchange of traffic with Seatrain, the loading and
unloading of the cars at shipside, which would otherwise
be required by the lighterage-free tariffs; that in effecting
the interchange "the rail lines do all that is required when
they place the cars in or take them from the Seatrain
cradle"; and that "the payments which complainant makes
to Seatrain cover no part of its transportation service under the lighterage-free rates and are in addition to the full
costs of that service."
The Commission recognized that if the payments by
Hoboken to Seatrain are not borne in part by the rail lines
through a decrease in their divisions and a corresponding
increase in Hoboken's divisions "they will receive an unearned benefit" since, by reason of Seatrain's shiploading
method, they are relieved of the necessity of compensating
Hoboken for performance of the loading and unloading
service ordinarily called for by their lighterage-free tariffs.
It pointed out, however, that lighterage-free rates "are
based on average conditions," and said that if a steamship
line now docking on the New York waterfront and served
by lighter at the New Jersey rail carriers' expense should
shift to a dock with direct rail connections on the New
Jersey shore a similar unearned benefit would result; yet
"it would hardly be suggested" that the rail carriers should
compensate the steamship company for the shift. Moreover it found no evidence that the payments were necessary to induce Seatrain to furnish its shiploading service.
It stated that Hoboken's contract with Seatrain was not
such evidence in view of Seatrain's control of Hoboken;
that it did not appear that Seatrain received such payments from any independent rail connection; and that
Seatrain's method of transfer by which it receives and delivers loaded cars has sufficient advantages to impel its use

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

Opinion of the Court.

by Seatrain regardless of contributing payments by its rail
connections.
It concluded that Seatrain's improved method of transfer is only an incident to its plan of transportation, that
the transfer is consequently not a necessary part of the
rail transportation service and that Hoboken is adequately
compensated for its part in that service without including
the payments to Seatrain in its divisions. The Commission accordingly found that Hoboken's divisions with the
payments to Seatrain excluded. "are not unjust, unreasonably low, inequitable, or unduly prejudicial" and that the
corresponding divisions received by the trunk lines "are
not unjust, unreasonably high, inequitable, or unduly
preferential of them," and ordered Hoboken's complaint
dismissed.
The District Court sustained the Commission's findings
that Hoboken's rail transportation service begins and
ends at Seatrain's cradle, and that the payments by Hoboken to Seatrain "do not constitute a legitimate transportation cost," and held that upon these findings "supported by evidence" the Commission's "judgment is final."
But it thought that even though the contract payments
should be disregarded Hoboken might be obligated to
pay to Seatrain the reasonable value to it of the use of
the Seatrain method of interchange, and that if that use
were found to have no value, at least any "windfall" resulting to the rail carriers as a whole should be divided
equitably among them.
The District Court accordingly set the Commission's
order aside and remanded the cause to the Commission,
directing it to consider whether the Seatrain devices "are
an efficient aid to railroad transportation"; if it found
that they were, to evaluate their worth to Hoboken and
to include in Hoboken's costs the amount of a legitimate
payment for their use; and if it found that they were not,

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

to determine whether any windfall to the rail carriers
resulted from their use and to establish an equitable basis
for its division among the rail carriers. The Commission
has brought the case here on assignments of error challenging the District Court's determination that compensation for any part of Hoboken's payments to Seatrain
should have been included in Hoboken's divisions.
Section 15 (6) of the Interstate Commerce Act directs
that whenever the Commission, upon complaint or on its
own motion, determines that the divisions of joint rates
applicable to the transportation of passengers or property, "are or will be unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or
unduly preferential or prejudicial" as between carriers
parties to such rates, "the Commission shall by order prescribe the just, reasonable, and equitable divisions thereof
to be received by the several carriers." In cases where
the joint. rate has been established pursuant to a finding
or order of the Commission, it may also determine and
order just and reasonable divisions for the period
subsequent to the filing of the complaint "and require
adjustment to be made" in accordance with its
determination.
At the outset it is necessary to consider the suggestion
that the case may have become moot by reason of the fact
that since February, 1942, Seatrain's vessels have been
in Government service and Seatrain's service has been discontinued. We may assume that the resumption of the
service is so uncertain as to render it conjectural whether
the Commission's present determination will be given
any future operation. But that determination under
§ 15 (6) is decisive of appellee's request for adjustment of
the divisions of joint rates prescribed by the Commission
which have been collected since the beginning of the
present proceeding. Brimstone Railroad & Canal Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 104, 121-3. While the present
record does not disclose the full extent to which joint rates,

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

Opinion of the Court.

divisions of which are here sought, were prescribed by the
Commission, it does appear that the Commission has in
prior proceedings prescribed joint rail-water-rail rates between eastern trunk line and New England territories and
southwestern territory applicable over Seatrain lines, to
which Hoboken, Seatrain, and most if not all of the trunk
lines which are appellants here are parties. Seatrain
Lines v. Akron, C. & Y. Ry. Co., 226 I. C. C. 7, 243 I. C. C.
199. As to them decision of this case controls the division
of rates for the period since appellee's complaint was filed
with the Commission. To that extent at least the case is
not moot.
Apart from the Commission's exclusion of Hoboken's
tonnage allowances to Seatrain, we have no occasion to
consider the sufficiency of the present divisions to Hoboken. The Commission found, upon abundant evidence,
that they "are sufficient to cover the cost of the service
performed by complainant and also a reasonable return
on the property owned or used by it in performing such
service." And appellee conceded before the Commission
that if the payments to Seatrain are not to be considered
a part of appellee's costs the divisions are adequate and
"we are not entitled to anything more."
As essential steps in determining whether Hoboken's
payments to Seatrain are a part of the rail transportation
costs, we think the court below correctly sustained the
Commission's findings that Hoboken's transportation
service with respect to carload freight interchanged with
Seatrain begins and ends at Seatrain's cradles; that the
rail lines perform the interchange transportation service
covered by their tariffs "when they place the cars in or
take them from the Seatrain cradle"; and that consequently the allowances paid by Hoboken "cover no part
of its transportation service under the lighterage-free rates
,nd are in addition to the full costs of that service."
These findings were based upon an extensive examination

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

of the method of interchange of freight between rail and
water carriers generally and between Hoboken and Seatrain. It is not and could not be seriously contended that
they are unsupported by evidence.
We are of opinion that these findings are decisive of
this appeal. The Commission's determination of the point
in time and space at which a carrier's transportation service begins or ends is an administrative finding which, if
supported by evidence, is conclusive on the courts. Los
Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294, 311-14; United
States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S. 402,
408; United States v. Pan American Petroleum Corp.,
304 U. S. 156, 158; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United
States, 305 U. S. 507, 525-6; Swift & Co. v. United States,
316 U. S. 216. 222-5 and cases cited. In the Tin Plate
and Pan American cases this Court sustained the Commission's order prohibiting, as in violation of § 6 (7) of the
Act, payment of allowances to an industry by rail carriers
for spotting cars on its industrial tracks. The Court
accepted as controlling the Commission's findings that
under prevailing conditions and practice the interchange
tracks of the industry were convenient and usual points
for the receipt and delivery of the interchanged cars, that
the rail line-haul service accordingly ended there and that
for that reason the industry performed no service in
spotting cars on its own tracks for which the rail carrier
was compensated under its line-haul tariffs and for which
the industry was entitled to be compensated by allowances
out of the line-haul charges.
The same principles apply in prescribing divisions of
joint rail carrier charges where, independently of considerations not present here, the measure of the carrier's
participation in the joint transportation service is the
measure of its divisions of the joint transportation charges,
New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 195; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 284;

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

Opinion of the Court.

Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, supra, 360-62;
Sharfman, Interstate Commerce Comrfiission, vol. III-B,
pp. 287-8, and the carrier is entitled to "just compensation
only for what it actually does," Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S.
1, 29; cf. Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United States,
257 U. S. 114, 118.
Here the Commission was concerned with the divisions
of joint rail rates which covered the rail carrier service
between inland points of rail shipment or destination and
the point of interchange at Hoboken. The Commission
has found that this point is the Seatrain cradle at shipside, and that the service rendered by Seatrain in loading
and unloading the loaded freight cars upon and from its
vessels is no part of the rail carrier service with respect to
which divisions are here sought. Consequently neither
Hoboken nor Seatrain is entitled to compensation out of
the joint rail haul charges for the ship loading and unloading service. Since Hoboken is entitled to receive by
way of divisions only its just and equitable share of the
proceeds of the joint rail transportation service rendered,
it cannot claim as a part of its share the costs of a service
which is not a part of the rail service called for by the joint
rates. Neither the joint rates of the rail carriers nor the
rates of Seatrain are here under attack and presumptively
they yield adequate but not excessive compensation for
the transportation services rendered under them. Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 74,
90; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, supra,
356.
From these findings of the Commission, and its further
finding that the interchange service rendered by Seatrain
is incident to Seatrain's transportation service, it would
seem to follow that Seatrain is entitled to compensation for
it as such, and presumably is so compensated by its tariffs.
If the compensation is inadequate the remedy lies in an increase in Seatrain's rates or in its divisions of joint rail and

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S

water transportation rates--for which it has an application
pending before the Commission, Seatrain Lines v. Akron,
Canton & Youngstown Ry. Co., No. 28668, filed May 22,
1941-rather than in its participation, by way of allowances paid to it by Hoboken, in the proceeds of a joint rail
service of which it performs no part.
Hence the District Court's direction to the Commission
to determine what part of the value of the interchange
service rendered by Seatrain should "be allowed in establishing Hoboken's legitimate costs," as an "aid to railroad
transportation," is inconsistent with its conclusion that the
Commission correctly found that the payments by Hoboken to Seatrain "do not constitute a legitimate transportation cost," and that Seatrain's interchange service is no
part of the rail transportation. If these findings be sustained, as they must, inquiry whether the payments to Seatrain have induced the performance of an interchange service resulting in savings to the rail carriers is irrelevant to a
determination of divisions of the joint rates for the rail
service of which the ship loading and unloading service
performed by Seatrain is not a part. Cf. Lehigh Valley R.
Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444, 446-7.
Section 15 (6), which authorizes the division of joint
rates applicable to a transportation service, contemplates
only the apportionment of the proceeds of that service
among the parties to it and not the compensation of others
for a service not covered by the joint rates to be divided.
Seatrain is not a party to this proceeding and it is not a
necessary party to a proceeding to fix divisions of a joint
rail rate--or of a portion of a joint rail-water rate-in
which it does not participate. United States v. Abilene &
Southern Ry. Co., supra, 283; Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry.
Co. v. United States, supra. We are accordingly not concerned with the adequacy of Seatrain's tariffs to compensate for its ship loading and unloading service or with the

I. C. C. v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
368

Opinion of the Court.

lawfulness of the payments to it by Hoboken. A determination by the Commission of the extent of the saving to
the rail carriers attributable to Hoboken's payments to
Seatrain was therefore not prerequisite to its order prescribing divisions. And its order is adequately supported
by its findings that the rail transportation service begins
and ends with the placing of the cars in Seatrain's cradles,
and that the ship loading and unloading service forms no
part of the rail transportation.
These findings, as we have seen, are based upon substantial evidence and since they are dispositive of the case we
need not examine the evidence further to ascertain whether
it supports the Commission's additional finding that payment of the allowances to Seatrain was not necessary to
induce Seatrain to perform its ship loading service in a
manner which resulted in savings to the rail carriers.
There is an additional reason why the case should not
be sent back to the Commission to reconsider its decision
that Hoboken should receive no part of whatever windfall
may result to the rail carriers from the use of Seatrain's
method of loading and unloading. The prescription of
divisions where carriers are unable to agree is not a mere
partition of property. It is one aspect of the general rate
policy which Congress has directed the Commission to
establish and administer in the public interest. New England Divisions Case, supra,195; UnitedStates v. Abilene &
Southern Ry. Co., supra, 284-5; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
v. United States, supra, 358-60. On such an issue, at
least where the Commission prescribes for the complaining
party a fair return for the transportation service which it
renders, the question as to what is a proper division is one
for the Commission's discretion, reviewable only for unreasonableness, departure from statutory standards, or lack
of evidentiary support. New England Divisions Case,
supra, 204; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., supra, 359; Missis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

sippi Valley Barge Line Co. v. United States, 292 U. S.

282, 286-7; Board of Trade v. United States, 314 U. S. 534,
546; Barringer& Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 1, 6-7.
The Commission has determined that it is more consistent with the nature of lighterage-free rates, which are
"based on average conditions," that the switching carrier
receive only fair compensation for the performance of
whatever service may be required of it by the tariffs and
the method of rail-water interchange, than that it share in
any windfall resulting from the use of an economical
method of interchange. And it stated in its report that
in general the divisions of a short switching line should be
determined on the basis of full remuneration for its services, without regard to the level of the joint rates, unless
they are as a whole unremunerative.3 We can hardly say
that such determinations of rate policy are arbitrary, or
result in such unjust divisions that the court must
set them aside. Cf. O'Keefe v. United States, 240 U. S.
294, 303-4.
We need not consider whether the contention that the
Commission's order is confiscatory adds anything to the
contention that the divisions which the Commission approved are unjust, unreasonably low, or inequitable.
Compare Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, supra,
364-9 with id. 383-5. As we have seen, the claim of confiscation is restricted to the Commission's refusal to allow
as a part of appellee's divisions the payments made by it to
Seatrain. These payments, voluntarily made by appellee,
were not exacted by the Commission. The Commission's
refusal to include them in divisions of which they were not
lawfully a part, not being an infringement of any right of
8See also Divisions of Joint Rates for Transportation of Stone, 41
I. C. C. 321,328; Rates of Peoria & Pekin Union Ry. Co., 93 I. C. C. 3,

22; 115 I. C. C. 469, 481-97, 501; Hoboken Mfrs. R. Co. v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 132 I. C. C. 579; Western M. Ry. Co. v. Maryland &P. R. Co., 167 I. C.C.57, 63.

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
3868

Counsel for Parties.

appellee, is obviously not confiscation of its property. Cf.
General American Tank Car Corp. v. Terminal Co., 308
U. S. 422, 428; Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra. The Commission's order is sustained and
the judgment of the District Court setting it aside is

reversed.
Reversed.

COLORADO v. KANSAS

ET AL.

BILL IN EQUITY.

No. 5, original. Argued October 11, 12, 1943.-Decided December
6, 1943.
In a suit involving use of the waters of the Arkansas River, brought
by Colorado against Kansas and a Kansas user, held:
1. Colorado is entitled to an injunction against further prosecution of suits by the Kansas user against Colorado users. P. 391.
2. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, made no allocation between
the States of the waters of the river. P. 391.
3. Kansas is not entitled on the record to an apportionment in
second-feet or acre-feet. P. 391.
4. In controversies involving the relative rights of States, the
burden on the complaining State is much heavier than that generally required to be borne by private parties, and this Court will
intervene only where a case is fully and clearly proved. P. 393.
5. Kansas' allegations that Colorado's use has materially increased since the decision in Kansas v. Colorado, and that the increase has worked a serious detriment to the substantial interests
of Kansas, are not sustained by the -evidence. P. 400.
6. Relief other than the restraint of further prosecution of
suits by the Kansas user against Colorado users is denied to both
States. P. 400.

ORIGINAL suit in equity by Colorado against Kansas and
the Finney County (Kansas) Water Users' Association.

Messrs. Gail L. Ireland, Attorney General of Colorado,
Jean S. Breitenstein, and Henry C. Vidal, with whom
Messrs. Arthur C. Gordon and A. W. McHendrie were on
the brief, for complainant.

