FALBO v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court.

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued November 19, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.

1. In a criminal prosecution under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 for willful failure to obey a local board's order to
report for assignment to work of national importance, it is no
defense that the registrant's classification as a conscientious objector rather than as a minister was erroneous. P. 554.
2. Assuming a constitutional requirement that judicial review be
available to test the validity of the board's classification, Congress
was not required to provide for such review prior to final acceptance of the registrant for service. P. 554.
135 F. 2d 464, affirmed.

320 U. S. 209, to review the affirmance of a
conviction for violation of the Selective Training and
CERTIORARI,

Service Act of 1940.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Victor F.
Schmidt was on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Tom C. Clark, and Messrs. Robert S. Erdahl and
Valentine Brookes were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Julien Cornell, Harold Evans, Ernest Angell,
and Osmond K. Fraenkel filed a brief on behalf of the National Committee on Conscientious Objectors of the
American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner was indicted on November 12, 1942, in
a federal District Court in Pennsylvania for knowingly
failing to perform a duty required of him under the Selec-

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

tive Training and Service Act of 1940.1 The particular
charge was that, after his local board had classified him as
a conscientious objector, he wilfully failed to obey the
board's order to report for assignment to work of national
importance.! Admitting that his refusal to obey the order was wilful, petitioner defended his conduct on the
ground that he was entitled to a statutory exemption
from all forms of national service, since the facts he had
presented to the board showed that he was a "regular or
duly ordained" minister.' The Act, he argued, does not
make it a crime to refuse to obey an order to report for
service if that order is based upon an erroneous classification, because there is no "duty" to comply with a mistaken
order. This defense was seasonably urged but the District Court declined to recognize it, expressing the view
that, "the Board has the decision of whether or not this
man is to be listed as he claims he should be"; and at the
154 Stat. 885; 50 U. S. C. Appendix §§ 301-318. Section 11 imposes criminal sanctions for wilful failure or neglect to perform any
duty required by the Act or by rules or regulations made pursuant to
the Act.
2 Under § 5 (g) of the Act, a registrant who "by reason of religious
training and belief" is conscientiously opposed to participation in
war may be inducted into the land or naval forces but must be assigned
to noncombatant service as defined by the President. If for similar
reasons a registrant is conscientiously opposed even to participation
in noncombatant service he is not to be inducted into the armed
forces at all but "shall . . . be assigned to work of national importance under civilian direction." Regulations, not here challenged,
impose on selectees a duty to obey board orders to report for induction
or assignment.
8 Section 5 (d) of the Act provides in part: "Regular or duly ordained ministers of religion . . . shall be exempt from training and

service (but not from registration) under this Act." The local board
refused to find that petitioner was a minister and further declined to
classify him as a conscientious objector. Upon review a board of
appeal, set up under § 10 (a) (2), sustained the local board's refusal
to exempt petitioner as a minister, but directed that he be classified
as a conscientious objector.

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
549

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion of the trial the jury was charged that, "if you
find from the facts that he failed to report-and there is
no evidence to the contrary . . .- it would be your duty
to find him guilty." The result of the trial was a conviction and sentence to imprisonment for five years.
On appeal petitioner urged that the District Court had
erred in refusing to permit a trial de novo on the merits
of his claimed exemption. In the alternative, he argued
that at least the Court should have reviewed the classification order to ascertain whether the local board had
been "prejudicial, unfair, and arbitrary" in that it had
failed to admit certain evidence which he offered, had
acted on the basis of an antipathy to the religious sect of
which he is a member, and had refused to classify him as
a minister against the overwhelming weight of the evidence. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court per curiam, 135 F. 2d 464. We granted certiorari because of the importance of the problems involved
relating to administration of the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940, upon which problems the Circuit
Courts of Appeals have not expressed uniform views."
When the Selective Training and Service Act was passed
in September, 1940, most of the world was at war. The
preamble of the Act declared it "imperative to increase
and train the personnel of the armed forces of the United
States." The danger of attack by our present enemies, if
not imminent, was real, as subsequent events have grimly
demonstrated. The Congress was faced with the urgent
necessity of integrating all the nation's people and forces
for national defense. That dire consequences might flow
from apathy and delay was well understood. Accordingly
the Act was passed to mobilize national manpower with
See, for example, Goff v. United States, 135 F. 2d 610, 612
(C. C. A. 4); Rase v. United States, 129 F. 2d 204, 207 (C. C. A. 6);
Ex parte Catanzaro, 138 F. 2d 100, 101 (C. C. A. 3); United States
v. Kauten, 133 F. 2d 703, 706, 707 (C. C. A. 2); United States v
Grieme, 128 F. 2d 811, 814, 815 (C. C. A. 3).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the speed which that necessity and understanding
required.
The mobilization system which Congress established by
the Act is designed to operate as one continuous process
for the selection of men for national service. Under the
system, different agencies are entrusted with different
functions but the work of each is integrated with that of
the others. Selection of registrants for service, and deferments or exemptions from service, are to be effected
within the framework of this machinery as implemented
by rules and regulations prescribed by the President.'
The selective service process begins with registration with
a local board composed of local citizens. The registrant
then supplies certain information on a questionnaire furnished by the board. On the basis of that information
and, where appropriate, a physical examination, the board
classifies him in accordance with standards contained in
the Act and the Selective Service Regulations. It then
notifies him of his classification. The registrant may contest his classification by a personal appearance before the
local board, and if that board refuses to alter the classification, by carrying his case to a board of appeal,' and
thence, in certain circumstances, to the President.
'Section 10 (a) (2) of the Act provides in part that ". . . local
boards, under rules and regulations prescribed by the President, shall
have power within their respective jurisdictions to hear and determine,
subject to the right of appeal to the appeal boards herein authorized,
all questions or claims with respect to inclusion for, or exemption or
deferment from, training and service under this Act of all individuals
within the jurisdiction of such local boards. The decisions of such
local boards shall be final except where an appeal is authorized in accordance with such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe." Pursuant to the grant of authority conferred by the Act
the President, through appropriate executive agencies, has promulgated
and from time to time amended comprehensive Selective Service
Regulations.
6A registrant may not, however, appeal from the determination
of his physical or mental condition. Selective Service Regulations,
§ 627.2 (a).

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
549

Opinion of the Court.

Only after he has exhausted this procedure is a protesting registrant ordered to report for service. If he has
been classified for military service, his local board orders
him to report for induction into the armed forces. If he
has been classified a conscientious objector opposed to
noncombatant military service, as was petitioner, he
ultimately is ordered by the local board to report for
work of national importance. In each case the registrant
is under the same obligation to obey the order. But in
neither case is the order to report the equivalent of acceptance for service. Completion of the functions of the
local boards and appellate agencies, important as are these
functions, is not the end of the selective service process.
The selectee may still be rejected at the induction center
and the conscientious objector who is opposed to noncombatant duty may be rejected at the civilian public
service camp.! The connected series of steps into the
national service which begins with registration with the
local board does not end until the registrant is accepted
by the army, navy, or civilian public service camp. Thus
a board order to report is no more than a necessary intermediate step in a united and continuous process designed
to raise an army speedily and efficiently.
In this process the local board is charged in the first
instance with the duty to make the classification of registrants which Congress in its complete discretion' saw fit
7 Section 3 (a) of the Act provides in part that ". . . no man hall
be inducted for training and service under this Act unless and until
he is acceptable to the land or naval forces for such training and
service and his physical and mental fitness for such training and

service has been satisfactorily determined: . . ."

We are informed

by the government that pursuant to this section approximately forty
per cent of the selectees who report under orders of local boards for
induction into the armed forces are rejected, and that, as of October
15, 1943, six hundred and ten of the eight thousand selectees who had
reported for civilian work of national importance had been rejected.
s See Hamilton v. Regents, concurring opinion, 293 U. S. 245, 265,
266-268; see also Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 29; Mac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

to authorize. Even if there were, as the petitioner argues,
a constitutional requirement that judicial review must be
available to test the validity of the decision of the local
board, it is certain that Congress was not required to
provide for judicial intervention before final acceptance
of an individual for national service. The narrow question therefore presented by this case is whether Congress
has authorized judicial review of the propriety of a board's
classification in a criminal prosecution for wilful violation
of an order directing a registrant to report for the last
step in the selective process.
We think it has not. The Act nowhere explicitly provides for such review and we have found nothing in its
legislative history which indicates an intention to afford
it. The circumstances under which the Act was adopted
lend no support to a view which would allow litigious
interruption of the process of selection which Congress
created. To meet the need which it felt for mobilizing
national manpower in the shortest practicable period,
Congress established a machinery which it deemed efficient
for inducting great numbers of men into the armed forces.
Careful provision was made for fair administration of the
Act's policies within the framework of the selective service
process. But Congress apparently regarded "a prompt
and unhesitating obedience to orders" issued in that
process "indispensable to the complete attainment of the
object" of national defense. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat.
19, 30. Surely if Congress had intended to authorize
interference with that process by intermediate challenges
of orders to report, it would have said so.
Against this background the complete absence of any
provision for such challenges in the very section providing
for prosecution of violations in the civil courts permits no
intosh v. United States, 42 F. 2d 845, 847, 848; 283 U. S. 605, dissenting opinion, 627, 632; United States v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315
U. S.289, 305.

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
549

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

other inference than that Congress did not intend they
could be made. The instant case offers a striking example of the consequences of any other view. Petitioner,
25 years of age, unmarried, and apparently in good health,
registered with his local board on October 16, 1940. He
claimed exemption August 23, 1941. Consideration of his
claim by the local board and the board of appeal delayed
his classification, so that his final order to report was not
issued until September 2, 1942. Today, one year and
four months after this order, he is still litigating the
question.

Affirmed.
concurring:
I concur in the result and in the opinion of the Court
except in one respect. Petitioner claims the local board's
order of classification was invalid because that board refused to classify petitioner as a minister on the basis of
an antipathy to the religious sect of which he is a member.
And, if the question were open, the record discloses that
some evidence tendered to sustain this charge was excluded in the trial court. But petitioner has made no
such charge concerning the action of the appeal board
which reviewed and affirmed the local board's order. And
there is nothing to show that the appeal board acted otherwise than according to law. If therefore the local board's
order was invalid originally for the reason claimed, as to
which I express no opinion, whatever defect may have
existed was cured by the appeal board's action. Apart
from some challenge upon constitutional grounds, I have
no doubt that Congress could and did exclude judicial
review of Selective Service orders like that in question. Accordingly I agree that the conviction must be
sustained.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting:

This case presents another aspect of the perplexing
problem of reconciling basic principles of justice with mili-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MuRPaY, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

tary needs in wartime. Individual rights have been recognized by our jurisprudence only after long and costly
struggles. They should not be struck down by anything
less than the gravest necessity. We assent to their temporary suspension only to the extent that they constitute
a clear and present danger to the effective prosecution of
the war and only as a means of preserving those rights
undiminished for ourselves and future generations. Before giving such an assent, therefore, we should be convinced of the existence of a reasonable necessity and be
satisfied that the suspension is in accordance with the
legislative intention.
The immediate issue is whether the Selective Training
and Service Act of 1940 must be interpreted so as to deprive alleged violators of the right to a full hearing and
of the right to present every reasonable defense. Petitioner, a member of Jehovah's Witnesses, claimed to be a
minister exempt from both military training and civilian
work under the Act. After exhausting all the administrative remedies and appeals afforded by the Act, he was
classified as a conscientious objector (Class IV-E) rather
than as a minister (Class IV-D). Petitioner alleges that
this classification was contrary to law and was the result
of arbitrary action by his local board. On the assumption
that these allegations are true, the subsequent order to
report for assignment to work of national importance,
which he disobeyed, must therefore be considered invalid.
Our problem is simply whether petitioner can introduce
evidence to that effect as a defense to a criminal prosecution for failure to obey the order.
Common sense and justice dictate that a citizen accused
of a crime should have the fullest hearing possible, plus
the opportunity to present every reasonable defense.
Only an unenlightened jurisprudence condemns an individual without according him those rights. Such a denial
is especially oppressive where a full hearing might dis-

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
549

MURPHY, J.,

dissenting.

close that the administrative action underlying the prosecution is the product of excess wartime emotions. Experience demonstrates that in time of war individual
liberties cannot always be entrusted safely to uncontrolled
administrative discretion. Illustrative of this proposition
is the remark attributed to one of the members of petitioner's local board to the effect that "I do not have any
damned use for Jehovah's Witnesses." The presumption
against foreclosing the defense of illegal and arbitrary
administrative action is therefore strong. Only the clearest statutory language or an unmistakable threat to the
public safety can justify a court in shutting the door to
such a defense. Because I am convinced that neither the
Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 nor the war
effort compels the result reached by the majority of this
Court, I am forced to dissent.
It is evident that there is no explicit provision in the
Act permitting the raising of this particular defense and
that the legislative history is silent on the matter. Suffice
it to say, however, that nothing in the statute or in its
legislative record proscribes this defense or warrants the
conviction of petitioner without benefit of a full hearing.
Judicial protection of an individual against arbitrary and
illegal administrative action does not depend upon the
presence or absence of express statutory authorization.
The power to administer complete justice and to consider
all reasonable pleas and defenses must be presumed in the
absence of legislation to the contrary.'
Moreover, the structure of the Act is entirely consistent
with judicial review of induction orders in criminal proceedings. As the majority states, the Act is designed "to
2 Otherwise the absence of clear statutory permission would preclude court review of induction orders in habeas corpus proceedings
following actual induction, a result which this Court's opinion presumably does not intend to infer. Judicial review in such proceedings has become well settled in lower federal courts.

558"

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

operate as one continuous process for the selection of men
for national service," and it is desirable that this process
be free from "litigious interruption." But we are faced
here with a complete and permanent interruption springing not from any affirmative judicial intervention but
from a failure to obey an order. A criminal proceeding
before a court is therefore inevitable and the only problem
is the availability of a particular defense in that proceeding. Hence judicial review at this stage has none of the
elements of a "litigious interruption" of the administrative process.
No other barriers to judicial review of the induction
order in a criminal proceeding are revealed by the structure of the Act. The "continuous process" of selection is
unique, unlike any ordinary administrative proceeding.
Normal concepts of administrative law are foreign to this
setting. Thus rules preventing judicial review of interlocutory administrative orders and requiring exhaustion
of the administrative process have no application here.
Those rules are based upon the unnecessary inconvenience
which the administrative agency would suffer if its
proceedings were interrupted by premature judicial intervention. But since the administrative process has already
come to a final ending, the reason for applying such rules
no longer exists. And even if the order in this case were
considered interlocutory rather than final, which is highly
questionable, judicial review at this point is no less necessary. Criminal punishment for disobedience of an arbitrary and invalid order is objectionable regardless of
whether the order be interlocutory or final.
Nor do familiar doctrines of the exclusiveness of statutory remedies have any relevance here. Had Congress
created a statutory judicial review procedure prior to or
following induction, the failure to take advantage of such
a review or the judicial approval of the induction order
upon appeal might bar a collateral attack on the order in

FALBO v. UNITED STATES.
549

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

a criminal proceeding. But Congress has erected no such
system of judicial review. Courts are left to their own
devices in fashioning whatever review they deem just and
necessary.
Thus there is no express or implied barrier to the raising
of this defense or to the granting of a full judicial review
of induction orders in criminal proceedings. Courts have
not hesitated to make such review available in habeas
corpus proceedings following induction despite the absence of express statutory authorization. Where, as here,
induction will never occur and the habeas corpus procedure is unavailable, judicial review in a criminal proceeding becomes imperative if petitioner is to be given any
protection against arbitrary and invalid administrative
action.' It is significant that' in analogous situations in
the past, although without passing upon the precise issue,
we have supplied such a necessary review in criminal proceedings. Cf. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.
364; Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.
177; McAllister, "Statutory Roads to Review of Federal
Administrative Orders," 28 California L. Rev. 129, 165,
166. See also FireDepartment v. Gilmour, 149 N. Y. 453,
44 N. E. 177; People v. McCoy, 125 Ill. 289,17 N. E. 786.
Finally, the effective prosecution of the war in no way
demands that petitioner be denied a full hearing in this
case. We are concerned with a speedy and effective
2Judge Robert C. Bell of the federal district court in Minnesota,
in his article "Selective Service and the Courts," 28 A. B. A. Journal
164, 167, states, "The courts are likely to be confronted with the question of what can be presented as a defense by a selectee in a criminal
prosecution against him for a violation of the provisions of the Act of
1940. It appears that this question has not been decided. On principle, it would seem that the defendant should be permitted to offer
as a defense the same questions that he could present in a habeas corpus
proceeding, that is, the question of whether the board had jurisdiction, whether there was a fair hearing, or whether the action of the
board was arbitrary or unlawful."

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MulPEH, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

mobilization of armed forces. But that mobilization is
neither impeded nor augmented by the availability of
judicial review of local board orders in criminal proceedings. In the rare case where the accused person can prove
the arbitrary and illegal nature of the administrative action, the induction order should never have been issued
and the armed forces are deprived of no one who should
have been inducted. And where the defendant is unable to prove such a defense or where, pursuant to this
Court's opinion, he is forbidden even to assert this defense, the prison rather than the Army or Navy is the
recipient of his presence. Thus the military strength of
this nation gains naught by the denial of judicial review
in this instance.
To say that the availability of such a review would encourage disobedience of induction orders, or that denial
of a review would have a deterrent effect, is neither demonstrable nor realistic. There is no evidence that petitioner failed to obey the local board order because of a
belief that he could secure a judicial reversal of the order
and thus escape the duty to defend his country. Those
who seek such a review are invariably those whose conscientious or religious scruples would prevent them from
reporting for induction regardless of the availability of
this defense. And I am not aware that disobedience has
multiplied in the Fourth Circuit, where this defense has
been allowed. Baxley v. United States, 134 F. 2d 998;
Goff v. United States, 135 F. 2d 610. Moreover, English
courts under identical circumstances during the last war
unhesitatingly provided a full hearing and reviewed orders to report for permanent service. Offord v. Hiscock,
86 L. J. K. B. 941; Hawkes v. Moxey, 86 L. J. K. B. 1530.
Yet that did not noticeably impede the efficiency or speed
of England's mustering of an adequate military force.
That an individual should languish in prison for five
years without being accorded the opportunity of proving

UNITED STATES v. MYERS.
549

Syllabus.

that the prosecution was based upon arbitrary and illegal
administrative action is not in keeping with the high
standards of our judicial system. Especially is this so
where neither public necessity nor rule of law or statute
leads inexorably to such a harsh result. The law knows
no finer hour than when it cuts through formal concepts
and transitory emotions to protect unpopular citizens
against discrimination and persecution. I can perceive
no other course for the law to take in this case.

UNITED STATES v. MYERS.
NO. 142.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.*

Argued December 16, 17, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. Section 5 of the Act of February 13, 1911, as amended, creates an
obligation on the part of the United States to pay customs officers
the extra compensation therein prescribed. P. 567.
2. The extra compensation which § 5 of the Act of February 13, 1911,
as amended, requires that customs inspectors be paid for overtime,
Sundays and holidays, held payable, in respect of weekday service,
only for service beyond the regular daily tour of duty, whether day
or night; and for all service on Sundays and holidays. Pp. 573-574.
3. As the proviso of § 5 authorizes adjustments of hours but is silent
as to Sundays and holidays, the section's earlier grant of extra
compensation for Sundays and holidays remains unaffected by the
proviso. P. 575.
4. The requirements of § 5 of the Act of February 13, 1911, as amended,
in respect of extra compensation, apply to services of customs inspectors at bridges and tunnels. P. 575.
5. The extra compensation required by § 5 of the Act of February 13,
1911, as amended, to be paid for overtime, Sundays and holidays is
exclusive of the base pay. P. 576.
99 Ct. CIs. 158, reversed in part, affirmed in part.
*Together with No. 143, United States v. Arble, No. 144, United
States v. Martin, No. 145, United States v. Plitz, and No. 146, United
States v. Spitz, also on writs of certiorari to the Court of Claims.

