UNITED STATES v. HARK.
527

Counsel for Parties.

Punishment without clear legislative authority might
conceivably contain more potential seeds of oppression
than the arrest of a person "to a condition of peonage."

UNITED STATES v. HARK ET AL., CO-PARTNERS,
BUSINESS AS LIBERTY BEEF CO.

DOING

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 83.

Argued December 8, 9, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.

1. Neither the District Court nor this Court has power to extend the
time within which appeals may be taken under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 533.
2. A formal judgment signed by the judge-rather than a statement
in an opinion or a docket entry-is prima facie the decision or
judgment in respect of which the time for appeal under the Criminal
Appeals Act begins to run. P. 534.
3. In the circumstances of this case, held that the formal order signed
by the judge and entered of record-rather than an earlier opinion
or docket entry-was the judgment fixing the date from which the
time for appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act ran, and the appeal
here was timely. P. 535.
4. An order granting a defendant's motion to quash, the effect of
which is to bar prosecution for the offense charged, is appealable
under the Criminal Appeals Act as a judgment "sustaining a special
plea in bar." P. 535.
5. Revocation of a price regulation issued pursuant to the Emergency
Price Control Act of 1942, held not a bar to an indictment and
prosecution for a violation committed when the regulation was in
force. P. 536.
49 F. Supp. 95, reversed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from an order
granting the defendants' motion to quash the indictment.

Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, and Messrs. CharlesH.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

Weston and David London were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. William H. Lewis, with whom Messrs. Leonard
Poretsky and John H. Backus were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal, prosecuted under the Criminal Appeals
Act,' presents questions touching the jurisdiction of this
court and the merits of the controversy.
Appellees were indicted December 21, 1942, for sales of
beef in violation of Maximum Price Regulation No. 169,
as amended, issued pursuant to the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942.2 They moved to quash. The District Court rendered an opinion March 5, 1943, holding
that, since the pertinent provisions of the regulation which
the appellees were clharged to have violated had been
revoked prior to the return of the indictment, they could
not be held to answer the charge.' The last sentence of
the opinion was: "The motion to quash is granted."
Under date of March 5 the clerk made an entry in
the docket as follows: "Sweeney, J. Opinion-Motion to
quash is granted." There seems to be no dispute that
some days later an additional entry was placed upon the
docket bearing the date March 5 and reading: "Sweeney,
J. Indictment quashed." It further appears that, upon
application of the United States Attorney, Judge Sweeney, on March 31, signed a formal order quashing the indictment.' On the same day the clerk struck from the
2 18 U. S. C. ยง 682.
2 56 Stat. 23, 50 U. S. C. ยง 901, etc.
'49 F. Supp. 95.

"Sweenfy, J.: This cause came on to be heard upon the defendant's
motion to quash the indictment alleging that Maximum Price Regu-

UNITED STATES v. HARK.
531

Opinion of the Court.

docket the last mentioned entry dated March 5 and entered, under the date March 31, the following: "Sweeney, J. Order quashing indictment." On April 30 Judge
Sweeney allowed a petition for appeal to this court.
The appellees moved to dismiss the appeal on the
grounds that it was not seasonably taken for the reason
that the decision upon the motion to quash made by
Judge Sweeney in his opinion of March 5 constituted the
judgment of the court; and that, as the appeal is not
based upon the invalidity or construction of the statute
upon which the indictment was founded, it was improperly taken to this court under the Criminal Appeals Act.
We postponed consideration of the motion to the hearing on the merits.
First. The Criminal Appeals Act requires that any appeal to this court which it authorizes be taken "within
thirty days after the decision or judgment' has been
rendered." Neither the District Court nor this court has
power to extend the period. If the opinion filed on March
5 constituted, within the meaning of the Act, the decision
or judgment of the District Court, or if either of the docket
entries bearing date March 5 constituted the final decision
lation No. 169 has been revoked by the Price Administrator, effective
December 16, 1942, before the indictment was returned. This allegation was not denied by the Government. After hearing arguments
of counsel for the defendant and of the United States Attorney, it is
Ordered that the indictment be and it hereby is quashed on the
ground that the Regulation alleged to have been violated was revoked
prior to the return of the indictment.
By the Court:
ARTHUR

March 31, 1943.

M. BROWN,

Deputy Clerk.

GEORGE C. SWEENEY,

U. S. D. J."
8 The words "decision" and "judgment" as used in the Act are not
intended to describe two judicial acts, but a single act described in
alternative phrases. Cf. Ex parle Tiffany, 252 U. S. 32, 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

or judgment,, the appeal was untimely. The circumstances disclosed require that we determine what constitutes the decision or judgment from which an appeal lies
in this case. We are without the benefit of a rule such as
Rule 58 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure which provides that "the notation of a judgment in the civil docket
as provided by Rule 79 (a) constitutes the entry of the
judgment; and the judgment is not effective before such
entry."
The judgment of a court is the judicial determination or
sentence of the court upon a matterwithin its jurisdiction.
No form of words and no peculiar formal act is necessary
to evince its rendition or to mature the right of appeal.
And the modes of evidencing the character of the judgment and of attesting the fact and time of its rendition
vary from state to state according to local statute or custom, from a simple docket entry or the statement of a conclusion in an opinion, to a formal adjudication, signed by
the judge or the clerk, in a journal or order book, or filed as
part of the record in the case. The practice in federal
courts doubtless varies because of the natural tendency to
follow local state practice. Unaided by statute or rule of
court we must decide on the bare record before us what
constitutes the decision or judgment of the court below
from which appeal must be taken within thirty days after
rendition.
In view of the diverse practice and custom in District
Courtswe cannot lay down any hard and fast rule. Where,
as here, a formal judgment is signed by the judge, this is
prima facie the decision or judgment rather than a statelThere is no dispute that the entry of March 5, "Indictment
quashed," was in fact not placed upon the docket for a number of
days after March 5, but it was made before March 29. Even if the

actual date when it was placed on the docket is to control, an appeal
taken April 30 would be out of time.

UNITED STATES v. HARK.
531

Opinion of the Court.

ment in an opinion or a docket entry.! In recent cases we
have so treated it.' But we are told by appellees that it is
not the practice of the court below to require written orders, and that entry on the docket has always been considered as entry of judgment, and for this support is found in
a letter from a deputy clerk of the court. On the other
hand, the appellant calls our attention to five cases brought
here under the Criminal Appeals Act from the District
Court for Massachusetts in each of which the record contains a formal order quashing an indictment, and in four
of which there was an opinion as well as the formal order.'
In view of these facts, we think we should give weight to
the action of the judge rather than to the opinion of counsel or of a ministerial officer of the court. The judge was
conscious, as we are, that he was without power to extend
the time for appeal. He entered a formal order of record.
We are unwilling to assume that he deemed this an empty
form or that he acted from a purpose indirectly to extend
the appeal time, which he could not do overtly. In the
absence of anything of record to lead to a contrary conclusion, we take the formal order of March 31 as in fact and
in law the pronouncement of the court's judgment and as
fixing the date from which the time for appeal ran.
Second. This appeal is authorized by the Criminal Appeals Act. That Act permits a direct appeal to this court,
inter alia, from a judgment of a district court "sustaining
7In the federal courts an opinion is not a part of the record proper,
England v. Gebhardt, 112 U. S. 502, 506; and in some jurisdictions
the docket entries are not.
8 United States v. Resnick, 299 U. S. 207; United States v. Midstate
Horticultural Co., 306 U. S. 161. Compare United States v. Swift
& Co., 318 U. S. 442, 446.
9United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190; United States v. Winslow, 227 U. S. 202; United States v. Foster, 233 U. S. 515; United
States v. Farrar, 281 U. S. 624; United States v. Scharton, 285
U. S. 518.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MumPHY, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

a special plea in bar." The material question is not how
the defendant's pleading is styled but the effect of the
ruling sought to be reviewed;10 and we have, therefore,
treated a.motion to quash, the grant of which would bar
prosecution for the offense charged, as a plea in bar within
the purview of the statute.' The defense here was in bar
of the prosecution; to sustain it was to end the cause and
exculpate the defendants.
Third. We hold that revocation of the regulation did
not prevent indictment and conviction for violation of
its provisions at a time when it remained in force. The
reason for the common law rule that the repeal of a statute
ends the power to prosecute for prior violations 11 is absent
in the case of a prosecution for violation of a regulation
issued pursuant to an existing statute which expresses a
continuing policy, to enforce which the regulation was
authorized. Revocation of the regulation does not repeal
the statute; and though the regulation calls the statutory
penalties into play, the statute, not the regulation, creates
the offense and imposes punishment for its violation.3
United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S.
304, is authority for the view that an indictable offense
was charged.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE

MURPHY,

dissenting:

I cannot agree that this appeal was "taken within thirty
days after the decision or judgment has been rendered,"
as required by the Criminal Appeals Act, 18 U. S. C. ยง 682.
This appeal was allowed by Judge Sweeney of the District
10 United States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407, 412; United States

v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72, 78.

11 United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S. 85, 86.
12 United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 95; cf. United States v.
Chambers, 291 U. S. 217 at 226.
11 Cf. United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506, 522.

UNITED STATES v. HARK.
531

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Court of Massachusetts on April 30, 1943, and is timely
only if the formal order signed on March 31 constitutes
the final decision or judgment. The particular circumstances of this case, however, forbid such a conclusion.
As the majority opinion states, the final decision or
judgment from which the thirty-day appeal period runs
requires no peculiar formal act or form of words. The
effective act varies from court to court. But there is no
doubt as to the practice in the District Court of Massachusetts. As stated by the deputy clerk of that court,
whose duties and familiarity with the court's procedure
lend great weight to his statements, "The practice in this
District, on the receipt of an opinion granting a motion
to quash, is to make an entry on the docket under the
judge's name, 'Indictment quashed.' It is not the practice to have a written order." This statement, which
appears to have had the approval of Judge Sweeney,
clearly indicates that the final judgment in this case is to
be found in the docket entry under the judge's name.
Judge Sweeney's opinion of March 5 granted the motion
to quash the indictment. Pursuant to the District Court's
practice, an entry on the docket under the judge's name,
constituting the final judgment, would normally have
been made on the same day, March 5. Because of inadvertence, however, the entry was not made until some
time between March 25 and March 29. At that time
the docket clerk made the following entry on the docket:
"March 5. Sweeney, J. Indictment quashed." That entry thereby constituted the final and effective judgment.
And assuming that this judgment was not entered until
March 29, the allowance of this appeal on April 30 was
out of time.
It is contended that the subsequent formal order signed
on March 31 by Judge Sweeney is the effective judgment.
But the procedure in this District Court makes clear that
such formal written orders are unnecessary. It is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MURPHY

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

simple docket entry which is the final decision or judgment of the court below.
Moreover, the circumstances surrounding the formal
order of March 31 reveal no intention by Judge Sweeney
to supersede the effect of the previous docket entry or to
extend the time for appeal. The deputy clerk, in a letter
written to the Department of Justice, has described the
situation in these words:
"On or about March 31st, the Government presented
a written order to me, and I accompanied the United
States Attorney to Judge Sweeney's chambers. It was
entirely new procedure for us to have a written order. I
understand it was only because the United States represented that the Department of Justice wanted a written
order in this case, so as to conform to the suggestion contained in Mr. Justice Jackson's concurring opinion in
United States v. Swift & Co., 318 U. S. 442, 446, that Judge
Sweeney signed the order. I can recall that Judge Sweeney protested against the necessity of signing such an.
order when it was presented to him, but did sign it at
the request of the United States Attorney. I also remember that Judge Sweeney said he was not going to adopt
the practice of signing orders in all such future cases.
When it came time to make an entry of this order in
the books, I assumed that it was to take the place of the
entry 'Sweeney, J. Indictment quashed', which was made
between March 25th and March 29th, and I told the
docket clerk making the entry to cross out the entry which
had been made previously between March 25th and
March 29th.
"When I wrote my letter to you, it seemed to me that
I had told the Court that the entry of March 5 would necessarily be stricken out, but I find that the Court has no
recollection of being so informed. There was no intention that the order of March 31 should extend the time
for appeal, and it is the Court's recollection that he so
stated to counsel.
"By direction of the Court, I am sending a copy of this
letter to counsel for the defendant."

UNITED STATES v. HARK.
531

MuRPHY, J., dissenting.

It thus clearly appears that the March 5 entry, which
was actually made between March 25 and March 29, was
intended to be the final decision or judgment of the District Court and that the appeal period began to run from
the date of actual entry. The March 31 order was entered at the Government's insistence merely to conform
to a suggestion of one Justice of this Court to the effect
that "we would be greatly aided if the District Courts in
dismissing an indictment would indicate in the order the
ground, and, if more than one, would separately state and
number them." United States v. Swift & Co., 318 U. S.
442, 446. That order was thus no more than a clarification and reiteration of the March 5 judgment. It
cannot be considered as a vacation of the prior judgment
or as a new or amended judgment.
The very fact that Judge Sweeney stated that the
March 31 order did not extend the time for appeal demonstrates his belief and intention that a valid final order
had theretofore been entered. Some time after March
31 the deputy clerk on his own initiative ordered the
March 5 docket entry stricken in the mistaken belief that
it had been superseded. In its place was inserted the
entry: "March 31. Sweeney, J. Order quashing indictment." Such action was obviously insufficient to change
either Judge Sweeney's intention or the finality and effect of the March 5 entry for purposes of appeal to this
Court.
Varying and uncertain rules governing criminal appeals are to be avoided whenever possible. Yet the effect of holding this appeal to be timely is to inject into
the procedure of the court below an element of confusion
and doubt. Heretofore parties to a criminal proceeding
in the District Court of Massachusetts were entitled to
rely on the docket entry, following an opinion granting
a motion to quash, as the final decision or judgment.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

They could calculate appeal periods from the date of that
entry. Now they must risk the possibility that at an
undeterminable later date one of the parties will convince
the court that a formal order should be entered and that
the time for appeal will start from that date. No reason of law or policy suggests itself in support of such
uncertainty.
Judged by the fixed and simple practice of the court
below in entering its final judgments, this appeal cannot
be considered timely.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join
in this dissent.
WALTON, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. SOUTHERN
PACKAGE CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 159. Argued December 17, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
A night watchman for a manufacturing plant which shipped a substantial portion of its product in interstate commerce, held covered
by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as one engaged in an
"occupation necessary to the production" of goods for interstate
commerce. P. 542.
194 Miss. 573, 11 So. 2d 912, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 726, to review the reversal of a judgment for the petitioner in a suit to recover overtime compensation and liquidated damages under the Fair Labor
Standards Act.

Mr. Chas. F. Engle submitted for petitioner.
Mrs. Elizabeth Hulen, with whom Messrs. William
H. Watkins and P. H. Eager, Jr. were on the brief, for
respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Robert L. Stern, with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Douglas B. Maggs,

