DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
Syllabus.

476

was the "proximate cause" if those words be used to mean
an event which contributes to produce a result, which is
the meaning Congress intended when it made railroads
liable for the injury or death of an employee "due to" or
"resulting in whole or in part from" the railroad's negligence.' The record shows that two expert witnesses with
many years of railroad experience testified that the accident was caused by the defective rail. That one of these
witnesses on cross-examination stated the derailment
would not have occurred "nine times out of ten" if there
had been a sound rail hardly justifies a directed verdict
against petitioner. The fact of causation is no different
from any other fact and does not have to be proved with
absolute certainty; ninety per cent certainty should suffice
to make it an issue for the jury. That a sound rail would
have given the deceased nine chances out of ten to escape
death should be enough to give his family and the community the protection which the Act contemplates.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

and MR.

concur in this opinion.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
NO. 44.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 8, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.
1. The Tax Court was not required by any statute, applicable regulation, or principle of law to treat as taxable income of the taxpayer a
recovery-in respect of a loss (on a sale of stock) deducted and
Note 2, atpra.
*Together with No. 45, Dobson v. Commissioncrof Internal Revenue,
No. 46, Estate of Collins v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and
No. 47, Harwick v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writs
of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
O See

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

allowed on returns for an earlier year, adjustment of the tax liability
for which was barred by limitations-where it found that, viewing
as a whole the transactions out of which the recovery arose, the
taxpayer had realized no economic gain and had derived no tax
benefit from the loss deduction; and the Circuit Court of Appeals
on review was without power to order that the recovery be treated
as taxable income rather than as a return of capital. P. 506.
2. Where no constitutional question is involved, and in the absence
of a controlling statute or regulation, a determination of the Tax
Court as to whether particular transactions are integrated or
separated for tax purposes is no more reviewable than any other
question of fact. P. 502.
3. When the reviewing court can not separate the elements of a decision so as to identify a clear-cut mistake of law, the decision of the
Tax Court must stand. P. 502.
4. In determining questions of law, courts may properly attach weight
to decisions of such questions by an administrative body having
special competence to deal with the subject matter; and though
decisions of the Tax Court may not be binding precedents for
courts dealing with similar problems, uniform administration
would be promoted by conforming to them where possible. P. 502.
133 F. 2d 732, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 739-740, to review a judgment
which, on review of decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals
redetermining deficiencies in income tax, in No. 47 affirmed and in Nos. 44-46 reversed. See 46 B. T. A. 765,
770.

Mr. William L. Prosser, with whom Mr. Leland W.

Scott was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Samuel H. Levy, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These four cases were consolidated in the Court of
Appeals. The facts of one will define the issue present
in all.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

The taxpayer, Collins, in 1929 purchased 300 shares of
stock of the National City Bank of New York which carried certain beneficial interests in stock of the National
City Company. The latter company was the seller and
the transaction occurred in Minnesota. In 1930 Collins
sold 100 shares, sustaining a deductible loss of $41,600.80,
which was claimed on his return for that year and allowed.
In 1931 he sold another 100 shares, sustaining a deductible
loss of $28,163.78, which was claimed in his return and
allowed. The remaining 100 shares he retained. He regarded the purchases and sales as closed and completed
transactions.
In 1936 Collins learned that the stock had not been registered in compliance with the Minnesota Blue Sky Laws
and learned of facts indicating that he had been induced to
purchase by fraudulent representations. He filed suit
against the seller alleging fraud and failure to register. He
asked rescission of the entire transaction and offered to return the proceeds of the stock, or an equivalent number of
shares plus such interest and dividends as he had received.
In 1939 the suit was settled, on a basis which gave him a
net recovery of $45,150.63, of which $23,296.45 was allocable -to the stock sold in 1930 and $6,454.18 allocable to
that sold in 1931. In his return for 1939 he did not report
as income any part of the recovery. Throughout that year
adjustment of his 1930 and 1931 tax liability was barred
by the statute of limitations.
The Commissioner adjusted Collins' 1939 gross income
by adding as ordinary gain the recovery attributable to the
shares sold, but not that portion of it attributable to the
shares unsold. The recovery upon the shares sold was
not, however, sufficient to make good the taxpayer's original investment in them. And if the amounts recovered
had been added to the proceeds received in 1930 and
1931 they would not have altered Collins' income tax liability for those years, for even if the entire deductions

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

claimed on account of these losses had been disallowed,
the returns would still have shown net losses.
Collins sought a redetermination by the Board of Tax
Appeals, now the Tax Court. He contended that the recovery of 1939 was in the nature of a return of capital from
which he realized no gain and no income either actually or
constructively, and that he had received no tax benefit
from the loss deductions. In the alternative he argued
that if the recovery could be called income at all it was
taxable as capital gain. The Commissioner insisted that
the entire recovery was taxable as ordinary gain and that
it was immaterial whether the taxpayer had obtained any
tax benefits from the loss deduction reported in prior years.
The Tax Court sustained the taxpayer's contention that
he had realized no taxable gain from the recovery. 1
The Court of Appeals concluded that the "tax benefit
theory" applied by the Tax Court "seems to be an injection into the law of an equitable principle, found neither
in the statutes nor in the regulations." Because the Tax
Court's reasoning was not embodied in any statutory precept, the court held that the Tax Court was not authorized
to resort to it in determining whether the recovery should
be treated as income or return of capital. It held as matter of law that the recoveries were neither return of capital
nor capital gain, but were ordinary income in the year
received.2 Questions important to tax administration
were involved, conflict was said to exist, and we granted
certiorari.'
It is contended that the applicable statutes and regulations properly interpreted forbid the method of calculation
followed by the Tax Court. If this were true, the Tax
Court's decision would not be "in accordance with law"
and the Court would be empowered to modify or reverse
1 Estate

of Collins v. Commissioner, 46 B. T. A. 765.
133 F. 2d 732.
8 319 U. S. 739.
2

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

it.' Whether it is true is a clear-cut question of law and
is for decision by the courts.
The court below thought that the Tax Court's decision
"evaded or ignored" the statute of limitation, the provision of the Regulations that "expenses, liabilities, or deficit
of one year cannot be used to reduce the income of a subsequent year," ' and the principle that recognition of a
capital loss presupposes some event of "realization" which
closes the transaction for good. We do not agree. The
Tax Court has not attempted to revise liability for earlier
years closed by the statute of limitation, nor used any
expense, liability, or deficit of a prior year to reduce the
income of a subsequent year. It went to prior years only
to determine the nature of the recovery, whether return
of capital or income. Nor has the Tax Court reopened
any closed transaction; it was compelled to determine the
very question whether such a recognition of loss had in
fact taken place in the prior year as would necessitate
calling the recovery in the taxable year income rather than
return of capital.
The 1928 Act provides that "The Board in redetermining a deficiency in respect of any taxable year shall consider such facts with relation to the taxes for other taxable
years as may be necessary correctly to redetermine the
amount of such deficiency. . . ., ' The Tax Court's inquiry as to past years was authorized if "necessary correctly to redetermine" the deficiency. The Tax Court
thought in this case that it was necessary; the Court of
Appeals apparently thought it was not. This precipitates
a question not raised by either counsel as to whether the
court is empowered to revise the Tax Court's decision
4 Revenue Act of 1926 § 1003 (b), 44 Stat. 9, 110, now Internal
Revenue Code § 1141 (c)(1).
8 Treasury Regulations 103, § 19.43-2.
6 Revenue Act of 1928 § 272 (g), 45 Stat. 854, now Internal Revenue
Code § 272 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

as "not in accordance with law" because of such a
difference of opinion.
With the 1926 Revenue Act, Congress promulgated, and
at all times since has maintained, a limitation on the
power of courts to review Board of Tax Appeals (now the
Tax Court) determinations.

".

.

. such courts shall have

power to affirm or, if the decision of the Board is not in
accordance with law, to modify or to reverse the decision
of the Board . . ." I However, even a casual survey of

decisions in tax cases, now over 5,000 in number, will
demonstrate that courts, including this Court, have not
paid the scrupulous deference to the tax laws' admonitions
of finality which they have to similar provisions in statutes relating to other tribunals." After thirty years of
income tax history the volume of tax litigation necessary
merely for statutory interpretation would seem due to
subside. That it shows no sign of diminution suggests
that many decisions have no value as precedents because
they determine only fact questions peculiar to particular
cases. Of course frequent amendment of the statute
causes continuing uncertainty and litigation, but all too
often amendments are themselves made necessary by court
decisions. Increase of potential tax litigation due to more
taxpayers and higher rates lends new importance to observance of statutory limitations on review of tax decisions. No other branch of the law touches human
IRevenue Act of 1926 § 1003 (b), 44 Stat. 9, 110, now Internal
Revenue Code § 1141 (c) (1).

. SCompare Helvering v. Tez-Penn Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, and
Bogardus v. Commissioner, 302 U. S. 34, with Rochester Telephone
Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125 (Federal Communications Commission); Shields v. Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177 (Interstate Commerce Commission); Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310
U. S.381, 399-400; Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402 (Bituminous Coal
Commission); Labor Board v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 309 U. S.206
(National Labor Relations Board).

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
189

Opinion of the Court.

activities at so many points. It can never be made simple,
but we can try to avoid making it needlessly complex.
It is more difficult to maintain sharp separation of court
and administrative functions in tax than in other fields.
One reason is that tax cases reach circuit courts of appeals
from different sources and do not always call for observance of any administrative, sphere of decision. Questions
which the Tax Court considers at the instance of one taxpayer may be considered by many district courts at the
instance of others.
The Tucker Act authorizes district courts, sitting without jury as courts of claims, to hear suits for recovery of
taxes alleged to have been "erroneously or illegally assessed or collected." " District courts also entertain common law actions against collectors to recover taxes erroneously demanded and paid under protest. Trial may be
by jury, but waiver of jury is authorized 1 and in tax cases
jury frequently is waived. In such cases the findings of
the court may be either special or general. The scope
of review on appeal may be affected by the nature of the
proceeding, the kind of findings, and whether the jury
was waived under a particular statutory authorization or
independently of it." The multiplicity and complexity
of rules is such that often it is easier to review the whole
case on the merits than to decide what part of it is reviewable and under what rule. The reports contain many
cases in which the question is passed over without
mention.
Another reason why courts have deferred less to the Tax
Court than to other administrative tribunals is the man9 28 U.S.C. § 41 (20).
1028 U. S. C. § 773; Act of May 29, 1930, c. 357, 46 Stat. 486.

1 28 U. S. C. § 875. See Carloss, Monograph on Findings of Fact
(Supt. of Documents, 1934) 4. Some 280 cases on the review of findings of fact are considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ner in which Tax Court finality was introduced into the
law.
The courts have rather strictly observed limitations on
their reviewing powers where the limitation came into
existence simultaneously with their duty to review administrative action in new fields of regulation. But this
was not the history of the tax law. Our modem income
tax experience began with the Revenue Act of 1913. The
World War soon brought high rates. The law was an
innovation, its constitutional aspects were still being debated, interpretation was just beginning, and administrators were inexperienced. The Act provided no administrative review of the Commissioner's determinations. It
did not alter the procedure followed under the Civil War
income tax by which an aggrieved taxpayer could pay under protest and then sue the Collector to test the correctness of the tax.'" The courts by force of this situation
entertained all manner of tax questions, and precedents
rapidly established a pattern of judicial thought and action whereby the assessments of income tax were reviewed
without much restraint or limitation. Only after that
practice became established did administrative review
make its appearance in tax matters.
Administrative machinery to give consideration to the
taxpayer's contentions existed in the Bureau of Internal
Revenue from about 1918 but it was subordinate to the
Commissioner.a In 1923, the situation was brought to
the attention of Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury, who proposed creation of a Board of Tax Appeals,
within the Treasury Department, whose decision was to
conclude Government and taxpayer on the question of
assessment and leave the taxpayer to pay the tax and then
See Cheathamv. United State., 92 U. S. 85, 89.
For an account thereof, see opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in
Wilhiameport Wire Rope Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 551, 562, n. 7.
1"
"

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

test its validity by suit against the Collector."' Congress
responded by creating the Board of Tax Appeals as "an independent agency in the executive branch of the Government." " The Board was to give hearings and notice
thereof and "make a report in writing of its findings of fact
and decision in each case." 16
But Congress dealt cautiously with finality for the Board's conclusions, going
only so far as to provide that in later proceedings the
findings should be "prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated." 1 So the Board's decisions first came before the courts under a statute which left them free to go
into both fact and law questions. Two years later Congress reviewed and commended the work of the new
Board,' increased salaries and lengthened the tenure of
its members,"9 provided for a direct appeal from the
Board's decisions to the circuit courts of appeals or the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,' and enacted the present provision limiting review to questions
of law.n
But this restriction upon judicial review of the Board's
decisions came only after thirteen years of income tax
experience had established a contrary habit. Precedents
had accumulated in which courts had laid down many
rules of taxation not based on statute but upon their ideas
of right accounting or tax practice. It was difficult to
1 Annual Report of Secretary of Treasury, Finance 1 (1923) 10;
Hamel, Practice and Evidence before the U. S. Board of Tax Appeals
(1938) 5.
1 Revenue Act of 1924 § 900 (k), 43 Stat. 253, 336.
10 Id., § 900 (h).
"IId., § 900 (g).
18 H. R. Rep. No. 1, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; Sen. Rep. No. 52, 69th
Cong., 1st Sess.
19 Revenue Act of 1926 §§ 901 (a), 900, 44 Stat. 9, 106, 105.
20 Id., § 1001 (a), 44 Stat. 9, 109.
21 Id., § 1003 (b), 44 Stat. 9, 110.

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

shift to a new basis. This Court applied the limitation,
but with less emphasis and less forceful resolution of
borderline cases in favor of administrative finality than
it has employed in reference to other administrative
determinations.22
That neglect of the congressional instruction is a fortuitous consequence of this evolution of the Tax Court
rather than a deliberate or purposeful judicial policy is
the more evident when we consider that every reason ever
advanced in support of administrative finality applies
to the Tax Court.
The court is independent, and its neutrality is not
clouded by prosecuting duties. Its procedures assure fair
hearings. Its deliberations are evidenced by careful opinions. All guides to judgment available to judges are
habitually consulted and respected. It has established
a tradition of freedom from bias and pressures.' It deals
with a subject that is highly specialized and so complex
as to be the despair of judges. It is relatively better staffed
for its task than is the judiciary." Its members not infrequently bring to their task long legislative or adminis22

E. g., Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131; Helvering v. TexPenn Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, 491; Bogardus v. Commissioner, 302 U. S.
34, 38-39. For a sample of the diverse treatment of Board decisions
when reviewed by this Court, see Elmhurst Cemetery Co. v. Commi8
sioner, 300 U. S. 37; Palmer v. Commissioner, 302 U. S. 63, 70; Helvering v. National Grocery Co., 304 U. S. 282, 294; Colorado National
Bank v. Commissioner, 305 U. S. 23; Helvering v. Lazarus & Co., 308
U. S. 252; Grifiths v. Commissioner, 308 U. S. 355; Helvering v.
Kehoe, 309 U. S. 277; Higgins v. Commissioner, 312 U. S. 212; Powers
v. Commissioner, 312 U. S. 259; Wilmington Trust Co. v. Helvering,
316 U. S. 164, 168; Merchants National Bank v. Commissioner, ante,
p. 256. Compare the foregoing with the cases cited supra note 8.
23 See reports of congressional committees on the Revenue Act of
1.926, cited supra note 18.
24 See Miller, Supporting Personnel of Federal Courts, 29 A. B. A.
Journal 130, 131.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

trative experience in their subject. The volume of tax
matters flowing through the Tax Court keeps its members abreast of changing statutes, regulations, and Bureau
practices, informed as to the background of controversies
and aware of the impact of their decisions on both Treasury and taxpayer. Individual cases are disposed of wholly
on records publicly made, in adversary proceedings, and
the court has no responsibility for previous handling.
Tested by every theoretical and practical reason for administrative finality, no administrative decisions are entitled to higher credit in the courts. Consideration of
uniform and expeditious tax administrations require that
they be given all credit to which they are entitled under
the law.
Tax Court decisions are characterized by substantial
uniformity. Appeals fan out into courts of appeal of ten
circuits and the District of Columbia. This diversification of appellate authority inevitably produces conflict of
decision, even if review is limited to questions of law. But
conflicts are multiplied by treating as questions of law
what really are disputes over proper accounting. The
mere number of such questions and the mass of decisions
they call forth become a menace to the certainty and good
administration of the law.2"
25

"Judge-made law is particularly prolific in connection with federal

taxation, coming, as it does, from so many courts of coordinate jurisdiction. And the constant outpouring of decisions has steadily increased in volume. For the year 1920 a leading tax service catalogued
only 300 decisions; CCH Federal Tax Service (1921) .... Today
one must look to approximately 20,000 court and Board decisions, many
pages of regulations, and about 5,000 rulings. Since 1924 the Board
of Tax Appeals alone has published about 8,500 opinions, as well as
approximately 4,000 unreported memorandum opinions. For the fiscal
years 1935, 1936 and 1937, the number of Board dockets appealed to
the Circuit Courts of Appeal has amounted, on the average, to 509 each
year. The Supreme Court's balance sheet shows that federal taxation
was the principal concern of that Court during the 1934 term, with 44

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

To achieve uniformity by resolving such conflicts in
the Supreme Court is at best slow, expensive, and unsatisfactory. Students of federal taxation agree that the tax
system suffers from delay in getting the final word in judicial review, from retroactivity of the decision when it is
obtained, and from the lack of a roundly tax-informed
viewpoint of judges. "'
Perhaps the chief difficulty in consistent and uniform
compliance with the congressional limitation upon court
decisions being handed down in that field. During the three years,
1935, 1936, and 1937, the Supreme Court rendered decisions in 84
federal tax cases." Paul, Selected Studies in Federal Taxation (1938)
2, n. 2.
"As of December 31, 1936, 4,700 decisions bad been appealed to the
Circuit Courts of Appeal (or the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia) of which 3,996 had been disposed of. This left a pending
Appellate docket of 704." Id., 140, n. 133.
26 Paul, Selected Studies in Federal Taxation (1938) 204, n. 18,
comments on the number and variety of the sources contributing to
tax law.
See Griswold, Book Review, 56 Harv.L. Rev. 1354.
Magill, The Impact of Federal Taxes (1943) 209, says: "At the
present time, it is impossible to obtain a really authoritative decision
of general application upon important questions of law for many years
after the close of any taxable year. The average period between the
taxable year in dispute and a Supreme Court decision relating thereto
is nine years. Meanwhile confusion reigns in the day-by-day settlement of the more debatable questions of the tax law. One circuit court
holds that a certain situation gives rise to tax liability; another circuit
holds the contrary. The Commissioner and the lower federal courts
are both confronted with the problem of reconciling the irreconcilable.
A great part of the criticism of changing interpretations of the law
announced by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is properly
attributable to the multitude of tribunals with original jurisdiction in
tax cases, and to the absence of provision for decisions with nationwide
authority in the majority of cases. If we were seeking to secure a
state of complete uncertainty in tax jurisprudence, we could hardly
do better than to provide for 87 Courts with original jurisdiction, 11
appellate bodies of cobrdinate rank, and only a discretionary review
of relatively few cases by the Supreme Court."

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

review lies in the want of a certain standard for distinguishing "questions of law" from "questions of fact."
This is the test Congress has directed, but its difficulties in
practice are well known and have been subject of frequent
comment. Its difficulty is reflected in our labeling some
questions as "mixed questions of law and fact" ",and in a
great number of opinions distinguishing "ultimate facts"
from evidentiary facts.2
It is difficult to lay down rules as to what should or
should not be reviewed in tax cases except in terms so general that their effectiveness in a particular case will depend
largely upon the attitude with which the case is approached. However, all that we have said of the finality
of administrative determination in other fields is applicable to determinations of the Tax Court. Its decision, of
course, must have "warrant in the record" and a reasonable
basis in the law. But "the judicial function is exhausted
when there is found to be a rational basis for the conclusions approved by the administrative body." Rochester
Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 146;
Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, 304;
Mississippi Valley Barge Line Co. v. United States, 292
U. S. 282, 286-7; Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402, 412; Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, 336; United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320; Wilmington Trust Co. v. Helvering, 316 U. S. 164, 168.
Congress has invested the Tax Court with primary authority for redetermining deficiencies, which constitutes
the greater part of tax litigation. This requires it to consider both law and facts. Whatever latitude exists in
27

E. g., Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131; Helvering v. Tex.

Penn Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, 491; Bogardus v. Commissioner, 302 U. S.

34, 39.
28 E. g., Anderson v. Commissioner, 78 F. 2d 636; Childers v. Commissioner, 80 F. 2d 27; Eaton v. Commissioner,81 F. 2d 332; Rankin
v. Commissioner, 84 F. 2d 551.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

resolving questions such as those of proper accounting,
treating a series of transactions as one for tax purposes, or
treating. apparently separate ones as single in their tax
consequences, exists in the Tax Court and not in the regular courts; when the court cannot separate the elements
of a decision so as to identify a clear-cut mistake of law,
the decision of the Tax Court must stand. In view of the
division of functions between the Tax Court and reviewing
courts it is of course the duty of the Tax Court to distinguish with clarity between what it finds as fact and what
conclusion it reaches on the law. In deciding law questions courts may properly attach weight to the decision
of points of law by an administrative body having special
competence to deal with the subject matter. The Tax
Court is informed by experience and kept current with tax
evolution and needs by the volume and variety of its work.
While its decisions may not be binding precedents for
courts dealing with similar problems, uniform administration would be promoted by conforming to them where
possible.
The Government says that "the principal question in
this case turns on the application of the settled principle
that the single year is the unit of taxation." But the Tax
Court was aware of this principle and in no way denied it.
Whether an apparently integrated transaction shall be
broken up into several separate steps and whether what
apparently are several steps shall be synthesized into one
whole transaction is frequently a necessary determination
in deciding tax consequences.29 Where no statute or regulation controls, the Tax Court's selection of the course to
follow is no more reviewable than any other question of
fact. Of course we are not here considering the scope of
review where constitutional questions are involved. The
See Paul, "Step Transactions," Selected Studies in Federal Taxation (1938) 203.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

Tax Court analyzed the basis of the litigation which produced the recovery in this case and the obvious fact that
"regarding the series of transactions as a whole it is apparent that no gain was actually realized." It found that
the taxpayer had realized no tax benefits from reporting
the transaction in separate years. It said the question
under these circumstances was whether the amount the
taxpayer recovered in 1939 "constitutes taxable income,
even though he realized no economic gain." It concluded
that the item should be treated as a return of capital rather
than as taxable income. There is no statute law to the
contrary, and the administrative rulings in effect at the
time tended to support the conclusion."' It is true that the
Board in a well considered opinion reviewed a number of
court holdings, but it did so for the purpose of showing
that they did not fetter its freedom to reach the decision
it thought sound. With this we agree.
Viewing the problem from a different aspect, the Government urges in this Court that although the recovery
is capital return, it is taxable in its entirety because taxpayer's basis for the property in question is zero. The
argument relies upon § 113 (b) (1) (A) of the Internal
Revenue Code, which provides for adjusting the basis of
property for "expenditures, receipts, losses, or other items,
properly chargeable to capital account." This provision,
it is said, requires that the right to a deduction for a capital
loss be treated as a return of capital. Consequently, by
deducting in 1930 and 1931 the entire difference between
the cost of his stock and the proceeds of the sales, taxpayer
reduced his basis to zero. But the statute contains no
such fixed rule as the Government would have us read into
it. It does not specify the circumstances or manner in
s0 General Counsel's Memorandum 20854, 1939-1 Cum. Bull. 102,
following G. C. M. 18525, 1937-1 Cum. Bull. 80; revoked by G. C. ML
22163, 1940-2 Cum. Bull. 76. This dealt with bad debt recoveries.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

which adjustments of the basis are to be made, but merely
provides that "Proper adjustment . . . shall in all cases

be made" for the items named if "properly chargeable to
capital account." What, in the circumstances of this case,
was a proper adjustment of the basis was thus purely an
accounting problem and therefore a question of fact for
the Tax Court to determine. Evidently the Tax Court
thought that the previous deductions were not altogether
"properly chargeable to capital account" and that to treat
them as an entire recoupment of the value of taxpayer's
stock would not have been a "proper adjustment." We
think there was substantial evidence to support such a
conclusion.
The Government relies upon Burnet v. Sanford &
Brooks Co., 282 U. S. 359, for the proposition that losses
of one year may not offset receipts of another year. But
the case suggested its own distinction: "While [the
money received] equalled, and in a loose sense was a return of, expenditures made in performing the contract,
still, as the Board of Tax Appeals found, the expenditures
were made in defraying the expenses.

. .

. They were

not capital investments, the cost of which, if converted,
must first be restored from the proceeds before there is a
capital gain taxable as income." 282 U. S. at 363-64. It
is also worth noting that the Court affirmed the Board's
decision, which had been upset by the circuit court of
appeals, and answered, in part, the contention of the
circuit court that certain regulations were applicable by
saying, ".

.

.

nor on this record do any facts appear tend-

ing to support the burden, resting on the taxpayer, of
establishing that the Commissioner erred in failing to
apply them." 282 U. S. at 366-67.
It is argued on behalf of the Commissioner that the
Court should overrule the Board by applying to this question rules of law laid down in decisions on the analogous
problem raised by recovery of bad debts charged off with-

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

505

Opinion of the Court.

out tax benefit in prior years. The court below accepted
the argument. However, instead of affording a reason
for overruling the Tax Court, the history of the bad debt
recovery question illustrates the mischief of overruling
the Tax Court in matters of tax accounting. Courts were
persuaded to rule as matter of law that bad debt recoveries
constitute taxable income, regardless of tax benefit from
the charge-off.'
The Tax Court had first made a similar
holding,3' but had come to hold to the contrary.3 Substitution of the courts' rule for that of the Tax Court led
to such hardships and inequities that the Treasury appealed to Congress to extend relief.3 ' It did so."' The
8 Commissioner v. United States & InternationalSecurities Corp.,
130 F. 2d 894; Helvering v. State-PlantersBank & Trust Co., 130 F.
2d 44.
"2Lake View Trust & Savings Bank v. Commissioner, 27 B. T. A. 290.
"Central Loan & Investment Co. v. Commissioner, 39 B. T. A. 981;
Citizens State Bank v. Commissioner, 46 B. T. A. 964.
84 Mr. Randolph Paul, Tax Adviser to the Secretary of the Treasury,
in a statement to the House Committee on Ways and Means said:
.The Secretary has pointed out that wartime rates make it imperative
to eliminate as far as possible existing inequities which distort the tax
burden of certain taxpayers. I should like to discuss the inequities
which the Secretary mentioned, as well as a few additional hardships ...
"(c) Recoveries of bad debts and taxcs.-If a taxpayer who has
taken a bad debt deduction later receives payment of such debt, such
payment must be included in his income even though he obtained no
tax benefit from the deduction in the prior year. While this result is
theoretically proper under our annual system of taxation, it may
produce severe hardships in certain eases through a distortion of the
taxpayer's real income. At the same time, any departure from our
annual system of taxation always produces administrative difficulties
which serve to impede the collection of taxes.
"It is believed that the hardships can be removed and the administrative difficulties kept to a minimum by excluding from income
amounts received in payment of the debt to the extent that the deduction on account of the debt in the prior year did not produce a tax
benefit. The troublesome question whether a benefit resulted should

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Government now argues that by extending legislative re-,
lief in bad debt cases Congress recognized that in the absence of specific exemption recoveries are taxable as income. We do not find that significance in the amendment.
A specific statutory exception was necessary in bad debt
cases only because the courts reversed the Tax Court and
established as matter of law a "theoretically proper" rule
which distorted the taxpayer's income. Congress would
hardly expect the courts to repeat the same error in another class of cases, as we would do were we to affirm in
this case."'
The Government also suggested that "If the tax benefit
rule were judicially adopted the question would then arise
of how it should be determined," and the difficulties of determining tax benefits, it says, create "an objection in itself to an attempt to adopt such a rule by judicial action."
We are not adopting any rule of tax benefits. We only
hold that no statute or regulation having the force of one
and no principle of law compels the Tax Court to find taxable income in a transaction where as matter of fact it
found no economic gain and no use of the transaction to
gain tax benefit. The error of the court below consisted of
be determined pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary. It is also suggested that
this treatment be extended to refunds of taxes previously deducted."
Hearings before Committee on Ways and Means on Revenue Revision
of 1942, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. I, 80, 87-88.
35 Revenue Act of 1942 § 116, 56 Stat. 798, 812.
80 The question of whether a recovery is properly accounted for as
income in the year received or should be related to a previous reported
deduction without tax benefit is one with a long history and much
conflict. It arises not only in case of recoveries of previously chargedoff bad debts and recoveries of the type we have here. It is also present

in case of refund of taxes or cancellation of expenses or interest previously reported as accrued, adjustments of depreciation and depletion
or amortization, and other similar situations.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
489

Opinion of the Court.

treating as a rule of law what we think is only a question
of proper tax accounting.
There is some difference in the facts of these cases. In
two of them the Tax Court sustained deficiencies because
it found that the deductions in prior years had offset gross
income for those years and therefore concluded that the
recoveries must to that extent be treated as taxable gain.8 t
The taxpayers object that this conclusion disregards certain exemptions and credits which would have been available to offset the increased gross income in the prior years,
so that the deductions resulted in no tax savings. In
determining whether the recoveries were taxable gain,
however, the Tax Court was free to decide for itself what
significance it would attach to the previous reduction of
taxable income as contrasted with reduction of tax. The
statute gives no inkling as to the correctness or incorrectness of the Tax Court's view, and we can find no compelling reason to substitute our judgment. In No. 47 the
decision of the Tax Court was upheld by the court below,
and in that case' the judgment is affirmed. In Nos. 44, 45,
and 46, the Court of Appeals reversed the Tax Court,
and for the reasons stated its judgments in those cases
are reversed.
No. 47 affirmed.
Nos. 44, 45, 46 reversed.

83Dobson

v. Commissioner, 46 B. T. A. 770.

