MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 661
Counsel for Parties.

MERCOID CORPORATION v. MID-CONTINENT
INVESTMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 54 and 55. Argued December 9, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. The owner of a system patent may not use it to secure a limited
monopoly of an unpatented device emp]oyed in practicing the invention, even though the unpatented device is itself an integral part
of the patented system. P. 665.
2. In a suit for infringement of a combination patent, misuse of the
patent to protect an unpatented element from competition is a
defense available to a contributory infringer. Leeds & Catlin Co. v.
Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2), 213 U. S. 325, limited. P. 668.
3. Exercise by an equity court of its discretion to withhold relief from
a patentee who has misused his patent to secure a limited monopoly
of unpatented material, can not be foreclosed by the failure of the
defendant to interpose that defense in earlier litigation to which
the alleged infringer was privy. P. 670.
4. A judgment in a suit for infringement of a patent does not bar a
claim based on § 4 of the Clayton Act which could have been, but
was not, asserted as a counterclaim in the prior suit. P. 671.
Where the second cause of action between the parties is upon a
different claim, the prior judgment is res judicata not as to issues
which might have been tendered but only as to those upon the
determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered. P. 671.
5. A counterclaim based on § 4 of the Clayton Act may, under the
Rules of Civil Procedure, be asserted in a patent infringement suit.
P. 671.
133 F. 2d 803, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

319 U. S. 737, to review a decree which

affirmed in part and reversed in part a decree of the District
Court, 43 F. Supp. 692, in a patent infringement suit.
Mr. George L. Wilkinson for petitioner.
Mr. Casper W. Ooms, with whom Messrs. Richard
Spencer, Richard L. Johnston, and Lloyd C. Root were on
the brief, for the Mid-Continent Investment Co.; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Mr. W. P. Bair, with whom Messrs. Will Freeman and
George H. Fisher were on the brief, for the MinneapolisHoneywell Regulator Co.,-respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Berge, and Messrs. Elliott H. Moyer and Robert C.
Barnard filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLas delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by respondent, Mid-Continent
Investment Co., against petitioner, Mercoid Corporation,
for contributory infringement of the Cross combination
patent No. 1,758,146, issued May 13, 1930, for a domestic
heating system. Mercoid in its answer denied contributory infringement and alleged that Mid-Continent should
be barred from relief because it was seeking to extend the
grant of the patent to unpatented devices. The alleged
improper use of the patent was also the basis of a counterclaim filed by Mercoid in which it was averred that
Mid-Continent and its exclusive licensee under the patent,
respondent Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., who
was brought in as a party plaintiff, had conspired to expand the monopoly of the patent in violation of the antitrust laws. Mercoid asked not only for declaratory relief
but for an accounting and treble damages as well. The
District Court found that Mercoid did not contribute to
the infringement of the Cross patent; that respondents
had conspired to establish a monopoly in an unpatented
appliance beyond the scope of the patent and in violation
of the anti-trust laws; and that respondents were in no
position to maintain the suit because of that conspiracy.
Mercoid was granted an injunction but its prayer for damages was denied. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the judgment of the District Court in disallowing dam-

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 663
661

Opinion of the Court.

ages under the counterclaim. In all other respects it
reversed that judgment, holding that Mercoid was guilty
of contributory infringement under the rule of Leeds &
Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2), 213
U. S. 325, and that Carbice Corp. v. American Patents
Corp., 283 U. S. 27 and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co.,
302 U. S. 458, did not bar recovery as the District Court
had thought. 133 F. 2d 803. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of
the public importance of the questions presented.
The controversy centers around the license agreement
between Mid-Continent and Minneapolis-Honeywell.
By that agreement Minneapolis-Honeywell received an
exclusive license to make, use, sell, and to sub-license others to make, use, and sell the Cross combination patent
No. 1,758,146. The royalty payments under the license,
however, were to be based only upon sales of the combustion stoker switch which was an element of the combination patent embodied in the patented article but which
was itself unpatented. The license agreement was construed by the Circuit Court of Appeals to mean that the
royalty payments were to be made only on switches used
for fire maintenance purposes under the Cross patent,
And Minneapolis-Honeywell in advertising its stoker
switches stated that the "right to use" the Cross system
patent was "only granted to the user" when the stoker
switches of Minneapolis-Honeywell were purchased from
it and used in the system. Neither Mid-Continent nor
Minneapolis-Honeywell manufactures or installs heating
systems under the Cross combination patent. There was
ample evidence to sustain the findings of the District
Court that respondents endeavored to use the license
agreement so as to prevent the sale or use of combustion
stoker switches in these heating systems unless they were
the switches made by Minneapolis-Honeywell and purchased from it or its sub-licensees.

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The patent is a combination or system patent, covering
a domestic heating system which comprises three main
elements-a motor driven stoker for feeding fuel to the
combustion chamber of a furnace, a room thermostat for
controlling the feeding of fuel, and a combustion stoker
switch to prevent extinguishment of the fire. The room
thermostat functions to supply, or discontinue the supply of, heat by closing or then opening the circuit to the
stoker motor at the required temperatures. The combustion stoker switch, or holdfire control, is responsive
to a low temperature in the furnace causing the stoker to
feed fuel so as to prevent the furnace fire from going out.
The control of the combustion stoker switch is said to be
effective in mild weather when the room thermostat may
not call for heat for a considerable period.
Mercoid, like Mid-Continent and Minneapolis-Honeywell, does not sell or install the Cross heating system.
But the Circuit Court of Appeals found that Mercoid
manufactured and sold combustion stoker switches for
use in the Cross combination patent. And we may assume that Mercoid did not act innocently. Indeed the
Circuit Court of Appeals said that it could find no use for
the accused devices other than in the Cross combination
patent. And it assumed, as was held in Smith v. MidContinent Investment Co., 106 F. 2d 622, that the Cross
patent was valid. But though we assume the validity of
the patent and accept fully the findings of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, we think the judgment below should be
reversed.
Ever since Henry v. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, was
overruled by Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co.,
243 U. S. 502, this Court has consistently held that the
owner of a patent may not employ it to secure a limited
monopoly of an unpatented material used in applying the
invention. Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp..
supra;Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., supra; Morton Salt

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 665
661

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488; B. B. Chemical
Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495. In those cases both direct and
contributory infringement suits were disallowed on a
showing that the owner of the patent was using it "as the
effective means of restraining competition with its sale
of an unpatented article." Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., supra, p. 490. The Court has repeatedly held
that to allow such suits would be to extend the aid of a
court of equity in expanding the patent beyond the legitimate scope of its monopoly. It is true that those cases
involved the use of the patent for a machine or process to
secure a partial monopoly in supplies consumed in its
operation or unpatented materials employed in it. But
we can see no difference in principle where the unpatented
material or device is itself an integral part of the structure embodying the patent.
The grant of a patent is the grant of a special privilege
"to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts."
Const., Art. I, § 8. It carries, of course, a right to be free
from competition in the practice of the invention. But
the limits of the patent are narrowly and strictly confined
to the precise terms of the grant. Ethyl Gasoline Corp.
v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 456; United States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241, 251. It is the public interest
which is dominant in the patent system. Pennock v.
Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1; Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 329;
Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra, pp. 510-511; Morton Salt Co. v.
G. S. Suppiger Co., supra; United States v. Masonite
Corp., 316 U. S. 265, 278. It is the protection of the public in a system of free enterprise which alike nullifies a
patent where any part of it is invalid (Marconi Wireless
Co. v. UnitedStates, 320 U. S. 1, 58; and see GeneralElectric Co. v. Wabash Corp., 304 U. S. 364, 372) and denies
to the patentee after issuance the power to use it in such
a way as to acquire a monopoly which is not plainly within

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the terms of the grant. The necessities or convenience of
the patentee do not justify any use of the monopoly of
the patent to create another monopoly. The fact that the
patentee has the power to refuse a license does not enable
him to enlarge the monopoly of the patent by the expedient of attaching conditions to its use. United States v.
Masonite Corp., supra, p. 277. The method by which
the monopoly is sought to be extended is immaterial.
United States v. Univi Lens Co., supra, pp. 251-252. The
patent is a privilege. But it is a privilege which is conditioned by a public purpose. It results from invention
and is limited to the invention which it defines. When
the patentee ties something else to his invention, he acts
only by virtue of his right as the owner of property to make
contracts concerning it and not otherwise. He then is
subject to all the limitations upon that right which the
general law imposes upon such contracts. The contract
is not saved by anything in the patent laws because it relates to the invention. If it were, the mere act of the
patentee could make the distinctive claim of the patent
attach to something which does not possess the quality
of invention. Then the patent would be diverted from its
statutory purpose and become a ready instrument for economic control in domains where the anti-trust acts or
other laws not the patent statutes define the public
policy.
The instant case is a graphic illustration of the evils of
an expansion of the patent monopoly by private engagementa The patent in question embraces furnace assemblies which neither the patentee nor the licensee makes or
vends. The struggle is not over a combination patent and
the right to make or vend it. The contest is solely over
unpatented wares which go into the patented product.
Respondents point out that the royalties under the license
are measured by the number of unpatented controls which
are sold and that no royalty is paid unless a furnace coy-

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 667
661

Opinion of the Court.

ered by the patent has been installed. But the fact remains that the competition which is sought to be controlled
is not competition in the sale of the patented assembly
but merely competition in the sale of the unpatented thermostatic controls. The patent is employed to protect the
market for a device on which no patent has been granted.
But for the patent such restraint on trade would plainly
run afoul of the anti-trust laws. If the restraint is lawful
because of the patent, the patent will have been expanded
by contract. That on which no patent could be obtained
would be as effectively protected as if a patent had been
issued. Private business would function as its own patent
office and impose its own law upon its licensees. It would
obtain by contract what letters patent alone may grant.
Such a vast power "to multiply monopolies" at the will
of the patentee (Chief Justice White dissenting in Henry
v. A. B. Dick Co., supra, p. 53) would carve out exceptions
to the anti-trust laws which Congress has not sanctioned.
Mr. Justice Brandeis, speaking for the Court, stated in the
Carbice case that "Control over the supply of such unpatented material is beyond the scope of the patentee's
monopoly; and this limitation, inherent in the patent
grant, is not dependent upon the peculiar function or
character of the unpatented material or on the way in
which it is used." 283 U. S. p. 33. We now add that it
makes no difference that the unpatented device is part of
the patented whole.
That result may not be obviated in the present case by
calling the combustion stoker switch the "heart of the
invention" or the "advance in the art." The patent is for
a combination only. Since none of the separate elements
of the combination is claimed as the invention, none of
them when dealt with separately is protected by the
patent monopoly. Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking
Machine Co. (No. 1), 213 U. S. 301, 318. Whether
the parts are new or old, the combination is the in-

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

vention and it is distinct from any of them. See
Schumacher v. Cornell, 96 U. S. 549, 554; Rowell v.
Lindsay, 113 U. S. 97, 101. If a limited monopoly over
the combustion stoker switch were allowed, it would not
be a monopoly accorded inventive genius by the patent
laws but a monopoly born of a commercial desire to avoid
the rigors of competition fostered by the anti-trust laws.
If such an expansion of the patent monopoly could be
effected by contract, the integrity of the patent system
would be seriously compromised.
Leeds & CatlinCo. v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No.
2), supra, is authority for the conclusion that he who sells
an unpatented part of a combination patent for use in the
assembled machine may be guilty of contributory infringement. The protection which the Court in that case
extended to the phonograph record, which was an unpatented part of the patented phonograph, is in substance inconsistent with the view which we have expressed in this
case. The rule of the Leeds & Catlincase (No. 2) accordingly must no longer prevail against the defense' that a
combination patent is being used to protect an unpatented
part from competition. That result obtains here though
we assume for the purposes of this case that Mercoid was
a contributory infringer and that respondents could have
enjoined the infringement had they not misused the patent
for the purpose of monopolizing unpatented material.
Inasmuch as their misuse of the patent would have precluded them from enjoining a direct infringement (Mor-

I The Court in that case did not refer to the doctrine of misuse of a
patent. That doctrine indeed was developed in this Court some years
later as shown by the Motion Picture case. The record in the Leeds &
Catlin case indicates that the point which we deem crucial in the
instant case was adverted to only obliquely in the briefs. The Court
was chiefly concerned with the proposition that a substitution or renewal of an unpatented element of a combination patent, as distinguished from its repair, is a "reconstruction" of the combination
213 U. S. pp. 333, 336.

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 669
661

Opinion of the Court.

ton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., supra) they cannot
stand in any better position with respect to a contributory
infringer. Where there is a collision between the principle of the Carbicecase and the conventional rules governing either direct or contributory infringement, the former
prevails.
The result of this decision, together with those which
have preceded it, is to limit substantially the doctrine of
contributory infringement. What residuum may be left
we need not stop to consider. It is sufficient to say that
in whatever posture the issue may be tendered courts of
equity will withhold relief where the patentee and those
claiming under him are using the patent privilege contrary
to the public interest. Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger
Co., supra, p. 492.
There remain the questions of res judicata and Mercoid's right to relief under the counterclaim.
Respondents point out that Mercoid knew of MidContinent's actions and the license agreement prior to
1935 when the earlier suit involving the validity of the
Cross patent (Smith v. Mid-Continent Investment Co.,
supra) was instituted. They state, and the District Court
found, that although Mercoid was not made a party to the
earlier suit it provided the defense. The contention
therefore is that the doctrine of res judicata binds Mercoid
as respects issues which were actually litigated and all
issues which might have been raised in that earlier suit.
And it is pointed out that among the defenses which might
have been interposed were those relating to the misuse of
the patent and the violations of the anti-trust laws. It is
argued, moreover, that although Minneapolis-Honeywell
was not a party to the earlier litigation, it is entitled to the
benefit of the judgment since its title or claim derives
from the patentee. We do not stop to examine the premises on which the argument is based; for though we
assume that they are correct, it does not follow that the

070

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

doctrine of ree judicata forecloses the defense which is
tendered.
Respondents ask the equity court for an injunction
against infringement by petitioner of the patent in question and for an accounting. Should such a decree be
entered, the Court would be placing its imprimatur on a
scheme which involves a misuse of the patent privilege and
a violation of the anti-trust laws. It would aid in the consummation of a conspiracy to expand a patent beyond
its legitimate scope. But patentees and licensees cannot
secure aid from the court to bring such an event to pass,
"unless it is in accordance with policy to grant that help."
Beasley v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 191 U. S. 492, 497.
And the determination of that policy is not "at the mercy"
of the parties (id., p. 498) nor dependent on the usual rules
governing the settlement of private litigation. "Courts
of equity may, and frequently do, go much farther both
to give and withhold relief in furtherance of the public
interest than they are accustomed to go when only private
interests are involved." Virginian Ry. Co. v. System
Federation, 300 U. S. 515, 552. "Where an important
public interest would be prejudiced," the reasons for denying injunctive relief "may be compelling." Harrisonville v. Dickey Clay Co., 289 U. S. 334, 338. And see
United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 194. That is the
principle which has led this Court in the past to withhold
aid from a patentee in suits for either direct or indirect
infringement where the patent was being misused. Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., supra, p. 492. That
principle is controlling here. The parties cannot foreclose
the courts from the exercise of that discretion by the failure to interpose the same defense in an earlier litigation.
Cf. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S.
173.
What we have just said does not, of course, dispose of
Mercoid's counterclaim for damages. That was based

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 671
661

Opinion of the Court.

on §4 of the Clayton Act which provides: "Any person
who shall be injured in his business or property by reason
of anything forbidden in the anti-trust laws may sue
therefor in any district court of the United States in the
district in which the defendant resides or is found or has
an agent, without respect to the amount in controversy,
and shall recover threefold the damages by him sustained,
and the cost of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee."
38 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 15. Though Mercoid were
barred in the present case from asserting any defense which
might have been interposed in the earlier litigation, it
would not follow that its counterclaim for damages would
likewise be barred. That claim for damages is more than
a defense; it is a separate statutory cause of action. The
fact that it might have been asserted as a counterclaim in
the prior suit by reason of Rule 13 (b) of the Rules of
Civil Procedure does not mean that the failure to do so
renders the prior judgment res judicata as respects it.
Virginia-CarolinaChemical Co. v. Kirven, 215 U. S. 252;
Larsen v. Northland Transportation Co., 292 U. S. 20.
And see Scott, Collateral Estoppel by Judgment, 56 Harv.
L. Rev. 1, 26-28; Restatement of the Law of Judgments,
§58. The case is then governed by the principle that
where the second cause of action between the parties is
upon a different claim the prior judgment is res judicata
not as to issues which might have been tendered but "only
as to those matters in issue or points controverted, upon
the determination of which the finding or verdict was
rendered." Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 353.
And see Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606. It was held in
Fleitmann v. Welsbach Street Lighting Co., 240 U. S. 27,
that the statutory liability in question may be enforced
only through the verdict of a jury in a court of common
law. But there is no reason under the Rules of Civil
Procedure why that may not be done under this counterclaim. Rules 12 (h), 13, 38, 42 (b). Whether the evi-

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of BLACK, J.

320 U. S.

dence will show damages within the rule of Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co., 282 U. S. 555, is of course a distinct question on which we intimate no opinion.
We have mentioned the statutory claim for damages
because both the District Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals denied that relief. But since the cause must
be remanded to the District Court, we think the question
whether res judicata bars any other part of the relief
sought by the counterclaim may appropriately be reserved
for it.
Reversed.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE BLACK:
Although I entirely agree with the Court's judgments
and the grounds on which they rest, I find it necessary to
add a few remarks in order that silence may not be understood as acquiescence in the views expressed in the dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER. There is
no inclination on'my part to challenge the wisdom of the
established practice whereby we do not discuss issues in
the abstract. As I see it, that salutary practice has no
application to the Court's discussion of contributory infringement in the present case. The court below rested
its decision on what it considered to be a doctrine of contributory infringement, and counsel for respondent have
discussed and relied upon it here. The Court's opinion
demonstrates that the subject cannot be ignored since at
least one element of the "complicated idea" which is
"compressed" in the judicially created "formula" of contributory infringement clashes head-on with elements of
the Carbice doctrine.
But my disagreement with this dissenting opinion runs
much deeper than the mere question of whether the Court
has here discussed the so-called formula of contributory
infringement at an improper or inopportune time. It
seems to me that the judicial error of discussing abstract

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 673
661

Opinion of BLAcx, J.

questions is slight compared to the error of interpreting
legislative enactments on the basis of a court's preconceived views on "morals" and "ethics."
If there is such a wrong as contributory infringement,
it must have been created by the federal patent statutes.
Since they make no direct mention of such a wrong, its
existence could only be rested on inferences as to Congressional intent. In searching for Congressional intent
we ordinarily look to such sources as statutory language
and legislative history. The dissent in question mentions
neither of these guides; in fact, it mentions no statute at
all. Instead, the chief reliance appears to be upon the
law of torts, a quotation from a decision of a lower federal
court which held that no infringement was shown, and the
writer's personal views on "morals" and "ethics." Not
one of these references, unless it be the latter, throws
enough light on the patent statutes to justify its use in
construing these statutes as creating, in addition to a
right of recovery for infringement, a more expansive right
judicially characterized as a "formula" of "contributory
infringement." And for judges to rest their interpretation of statutes on nothing but their own conceptions of
"morals" and "ethics" is, to say the least, dangerous
business.
If the present case compelled consideration of the
morals and ethics of contributory infringement, I should
be most reluctant to conclude that the scales of moral
value are weighted against the right of producers to sell
their unpatented goods in a free market. At least since
Adam Smith wrote, unhampered competition has not generally been considered immoral. While there have been
objections to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, few if any of
the objectors have questioned its morality.
It has long been recognized that a socially undesirable
practice may seek acceptance under the guise of conventional moral symbols. And repeated judicial assertion

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RoBmErs, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

that a bad practice is hallowed by morals may, if unchallenged, help it to receive the acceptance which it seeks.
With this in mind, I wish to make explicit my protest
against talking about the judicial doctrine of "contributory infringement" as though it were entitled to the same
respect as a universally recognized moral truth.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

concurs in this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

First. I agree that the patentee may not extend his
exclusive statutory right to make, use, and vend by forbidding one practicing the invention from using in such
practice an unpatented article susceptible to such use.
He may not obtain an injunction against such user for
infringement. This is a pure question of the extent of
the right of exclusion conferred by the patent statute.'
It nowise involves the antitrust acts. A patent is property
and it may, like other property, be so used as to violate
those acts,2 but that is not this case.

Second. I think the opinion may create confusion respecting contributory infringement. The court below,
thinking the doctrine of the Carbice and Leitch cases inapplicable, necessarily concluded that the user of the
system infringed the patent if he used any thermostat
other than that manufactured by respondent's exclusive
licensee. But those cases show that so to do would not
constitute infringement of the patent. And if the purchaser and user could not be amerced as an infringer certainly one who sold to him with the purpose that he should
use the thermostat cannot be amerced for contributing to
a non-existent infringement. One may disagree with the
2 Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch
Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458.
2
Standard SanitaryMjg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United

States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S. 265.

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 675
661

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

decision of this court in Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2), 213 U. S. 325, that the substitution by the user of the talking machine of a record not
made by the licensor constituted an infringement of the
patent, but, accepting the premise that such conduct was
infringement, one who participated in it by knowingly
and intentionally selling records to the user became an
aider and participant in the infringement and, as such,
liable to the owner of the patent. I cannot believe that
the court's opinion is intended to lay down a different
principle.
Third. I disagree with the application of the rule res
judicata to one phase of the litigation. Mercoid defended an earlier suit brought by the respondent against
a user of the patented combination who bought and installed as part of the system a Mercoid thermostat. Con-

fessedly the defense now asserted under the Carbice doctrine was available, was not made, and judgment of validity and infringement was entered.
I fail to see what great question of public interest or
public policy is violated by holding that one to whom a
defense was available, in rebuttal of a claim broader than
was warranted by the statute on which the plaintiff's right
was founded, is bound by the judgment rendered. That
judgment stands unreversed. The defense, if made, as it
could have been, would have benefited the defendant in
its pocketbook. We are now told that a misconstruction
of the patent law by a licensor is bo violent and flagrant
a flouting of the public interest that a court of equity must
hold its hand for the benefit of a defendant whenever he
chooses to invoke that interest for his private benefit,
though he has failed to make the defense in an earlier litigation and stands of record an infringer. If a wrong
against the public has been perpetrated it may be redressed at the instance of the representatives of government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FMmurmpRu

, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

I can only speculate as to the results of such a holding.
If applicable here, I cannot see why the principle should
not apply to every suit or action based upon, or arising
out of,, statutory provisions, and to every defense bottomed on public policy, whether expressed in statute or
not. Surely the defendant in the earlier suit, after the
decree against him became final, could not have defended
a charge of contempt for disobeying the decree on the
ground now asserted. And if the judgment concluded
him thus directly, I cannot agree that he may now disregard it or collaterally attack it. And confessedly Mercoid stands in his shoes."
I should affirm the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE REED joins in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

The Court holds in effect that the owner of a patent
who exacts, as the condition of a license, that unpatented
materials used in connection with the invention shall be
purchased only from the licensor cannot obtain relief from
equity against one who supplies such unpatented materials even though the unpatented appliance was not for
common use but was designedly adapted for the practice
of the invention, but when so used did not involve an infringement of the patent. The decision is thus merely
an appropriate application of what has come to be known
as the doctrine in the Carbice case, 283 U. S. 27. In this
view I concur.
But in the series of cases in which that doctrine has
heretofore been applied (Motion Picture Co. v. Universal
Film Co., 243 U. S. 502; Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., supra; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314
1Bryant Electric Co. v. Marshall, 169 F. 426; affirmed 185 F. 499.
Compare Souffront v. La Compagnie, 217 U. S. 475. And see cases
collected 139 A. L. R. 41.

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 677
661

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

U. S. 488; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495), not
once has this Court found it relevant to reject, either explicitly or by indirection, another doctrine of the law,
that of contributory infringement, nor has it seen fit to
make animadversions upon it. This is so doubtless for
the simple reason that appropriate occasions for relief
against contributory infringement are unrelated to the
circumstances which bring the Carbice doctrine into
play. In a word, if there is no infringement of a patent
there can be no contributory infringer.
Within its true limits the idea of contributory infringement was woven into the fabric of our law and has been
part of it for now more than seventy years. See Roberts,
Contributory Infringement of Patent Rights, 12 Harv.
L. Rev. 35, and e. g. Thomson-Houston Electric Co. v.
Ohio Brass Co., 80 F. 712. The doctrine has been put
perhaps most simply by Judge Shepley: "Different parties may all infringe, by respectively making or selling,
each of them, one of the elements of a patented combination, provided those separate elements are made for the
purpose, and with the intent, of their being combined by
a party having no right to combine thein. But the mere
manufacture of a separate element of a patented combination, unless such manufacture be proved to have been
conducted for the purpose, and with the intent of aiding
infringement, is not, in and of itself, infringement." Saxe
v. Hammond, Fed. Cas. No. 12,411, 1 Ban. & A. 629, 632.
So understood, the doctrine of contributory infringement
is an expression both of law and morals. It is but one
phase of a more comprehending doctrine of legal liability
enforced by this Court both in civil and criminal cases.
See, for instance, American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank, 256 U. S. 350, and Direct Sales Co. v.
United States, 319 U. S. 703. Indeed, the opinion in the
Carbice case explicitly recognizes a proper scope for the
doctrine of contributory infringement as a phase of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACxSON, J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

law of torts: "Infringement, whether direct or contributory, is essentially a tort, and implies invasion of some
right of the patentee." Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27, 33.
To be sure, the doctrine of contributory infringement
may be misconceived and has been misapplied. That is
the fate of all shorthand statements of complicated ideas,
whether in law or in the natural sciences. But the misapplication of a formula into which a complicated idea is
compressed and thereby mutilated is a poor excuse for rejecting the idea. It will be time enough to define the appropriate limits of the doctrine of contributory infringement when we are required to deal with the problem.
Until then litigants and lower courts ought not to be
embarrassed by gratuitous innuendoes against a principle
of the law which, within its proper bounds, is accredited
by legal history as well as ethics. The long and on the
whole not unworthy history of our judicial administration
admonishes us against expressing views on matters not before us. The history of this Court especially admonishes
us against the evils'of giving opinions not called for. See
e. g. Hughes, The Supreme Court of the United States, p.
50, and 49 Harv. L. Rev. 68, 98. The duty of not going
beyond the necessities of a case is not a lifeless technicality.
The experience of centuries is behind the wisdom of not
deciding, whether explicitly or by atmospheric pressure,
matters that do not come to the Court with the impact of
necessity.
For the reasons set forth by my brother ROBzRTS, res
judicatacalls for airmance.
MR. JusncE JAcxsoN, in dissent:
"A patent," said Mr. Justice Holmes, "is property carried to the highest degree of abstraction-a right in rem to
exclude, without a physical object or content." I Here the
II Holmes-Pollock Letters, p. 53.

MERCOID CORP. v. MID-CONTINENT CO. 679
661

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

patent covers a combination-a system-a sequencewhich is said to be new, although every element and factor
in it is old and unpatentable. Thus we have an abstract
right in an abstruse relationship between things in which
individually there is no right--a legal concept which either
is very profound or almost unintelligible, I cannot be quite
sure which.
Undoubtedly the man who first devised a thermostat to
control the flow of electric energy gave something to the
world. But one who merely carried it to a new location,
or used two instead of one, or three instead of two, or used
it to control current for a stoker motor rather than for a
damper, did not do much that I would not expect of a good
mechanic familiar with the instrument. But that question of validity is not here. I assume that this patent
confers some rights and ask what they are.
Of course the abstract right to the "sequence" has little
economic importance unless its monopoly comprehends
not only the arrangement but some, at least, of its components. If the patentee may not exclude competitors
from making and vending strategic unpatented elements
such as the thermostat, adapted to use in the combination,
the patented system is so. vulnerable to competition as to
be almost worthless. On the other hand, if he may prohibit such competition, his system patent gathers up into
its monopoly devices long known to the art and hence not
themselves subject to any patent.
It is suggested that such a patent should protect the
patentee at least against one who knowingly and intentionally builds a device for use in the combination and
vends it for that purpose. That is what appears to have
been done here. As to ethics, the parties seem to me as
much on a parity as the pot and the kettle. But want of
knowledge or innocent intent is not ordinarily available to
diminish patent protection. I do not see how intent can

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U.S.

make infringement of what otherwise is not. The less
legal rights depend on someone's state of mind, the better.
The practical issue is whether we will leave such a combination patent with little value indeed or whether we will
give it value by projecting its economic effects to elements
not by themselves a part of its legal monopoly. In these
circumstances I think we should protect the patent owner
in the enjoyment of just what he has been granted-an
abstract right in an abstruse combination-worth whatever such a totality may be worth. I see no constitutional
or statutory authority for giving it additional value by
bringing into its monopoly all or any of the unpatentable
parts.
For these reasons I agree with the Court that no case
of infringement could have been made out had the issue
been raised when it was timely. But I agree with the
views of the doctrine of res adjudicataexpressed by MR.
JUsTI E ROBERTS and for that reason join the dissent.
MERCOID CORPORATION v. MINNEAPOLISHONEYWELL REGULATOR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 58 and 59. Argued December 9, 10, 1943.-Decided January
3, 1944.
An owner of a combination patent may not so use it as to control
competition in the sale of an unpatented device, even though the
unpatented device may be the distinguishing part of the invention;
and a court of equity will grant or withhold relief accordingly. Mer-

coid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., ante, p. 661. P. 684.
133 F. 2d 811, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 739, to review a decree which reversed in part and affirmed in part a decree of the District
Court, 43 F. Supp. 878, in a patent infringment suit.

