OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U. S.

Tax Court applied that test to these facts. 45 B. T. A.
270, 273-274. Where its findings are supported by substantial evidence they are conclusive. We may modify
or reverse such a decision only if it is "not in accordance
with law." 44 Stat. 110, 26 U. S. C. § 1141 (c) (i). See
Wilmington Trust Co. v. Helvering, 316 U. S. 164, 168.
The discretion to pay to the wife such principal amounts
as the trustee deems proper for her "happiness" introduces of course an element of uncertainty beyond that
which existed in the Ithaca Trust Co. case. There the
trustee only had authority to withdraw from the principal
and pay to the wife a sum "necessary to suitably maintain
her in as much comfort as she now enjoys." But the frugality and conservatism of this New England corporate
trustee, the habits and temperament of this sixty-seven
year old lady, her scale of living, the nature of the investments-these facts might well make certain what on the
face of the will might appear quite uncertain. We should
let that factual determination of the Tax Court stand,
even though we would decide differently were we the
triers of fact.
ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 19. Argued October 15, 18, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
A federal District Court, having by a valid judgment sentenced a
defendant to a term of imprisonment (less than the maximum) and
ordered suspension of execution of the sentence and release of the
defendant on probation, is without authority thereafter on revocation
of probation to set aside that sentence and increase the term of
imprisonment. Construing Probation Act, §§ 1, 2. Pp. 266, 272.
131 F. 2d 392, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 753, to review the affirmance of a
judgment revoking probation and resentencing a defendant in a criminal case.

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
264

Opinion of the Court.

Mr.Newton B. Powell, with whom Mr. Benton Littleton
Britnell was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Tort C. Clark, Messrs. Oscar
A. Provost and W. Marvin Smith and Miss Melva M.
Graney were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In April, 1938, petitioner pleaded guilty to a violation
of 18 U. S. C. 409 and the District Court entered a judgment sentencing him to pay a fine of $250 and to serve
two years in a federal penitentiary. Acting under authority of the Probation Act I the court then suspended
execution of the sentence conditioned upon payment of
the fine, and ordered petitioner's release on probation for
a five-year period. The fine was paid and he was released.
In June, 1942, the court after a hearing revoked the probation, set aside the original sentence of two years, and
imposed a new sentence of three years. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed, 131 F. 2d 392. Certiorari was
granted because of the importance of questions raised concerning administration of the Probation Act.
The power of the District Court to increase the sentence from two to three years is challenged on two
grounds: (1) Properly interpreted the Probation Act does
not authorize a sentence imposed before probation, the
execution of which has been suspended, to be set aside and
increased upon revocation of probation; (2) If construed
to grant such power, the Act to that extent violates the
prohibition against double jeopardy contained in the Fifth
Amendment. We do not reach this second question.
If the authority exists in federal courts to suspend or to
increase a sentence fixed by a valid judgment, it must
be derived from the Probation Act. The government
43 Stat. 1259; 46 Stat. 503; 48 Stat. 256; 53 Stat. 1223, 1225;
U. S. C. Title 18, §§ 724-728.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

concedes that federal courts had no such power prior to
passage of that Act. See Ex parte United States, 242 U. S.
27; United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55; Ex parte Lange,
18 Wall. 163; United States v. Benz, 282 U. S. 304. In the
instant case that part of the original judgment which suspended execution of the two-year sentence and released
the petitioner on probation was authorized by the literal
language of § 1 of the Probation Act (U. S. C. Title 18,
§ 724) granting the District Court power "to suspend the
. . . execution of sentence and to place the defendant
upon probation. . . ." But before we can conclude that
the Act authorized the District Court thereafter to increase the sentence imposed by the original judgment we
must find in it a legislative grant of authority to do four
things: revoke probation; revoke suspension of execution of the original sentence; set aside the original
sentence; and enter a new judgment for a longer
imprisonment.
We are asked by the government to find this legislative
grant in § 2 of the Act as amended (U. S. C. Title 18, § 725)
a part of which is set out below.' It is clear that power to
do the first two things, revoke the probation and the suspension of sentence, is expressly granted by § 2. It is
equally clear that power to do the third, set aside the
original sentence, is not expressly granted. If we find
this power we must resort to inference.
Except by strained construction we could not infer from
the express grant of power to revoke probation or suspension of sentence the further power to set aside the original
2 "At any

time within the probation period the probation officer may

arrest the probationer .

.

. or the court which has granted the pro-

bation may issue a warrant for his arrest ....
tioner shall forthwith be taken before the court ....

[and] such probaThereupon the

court may revoke the probation or the suspension of sentence, and may
impose any sentence which might originally have been imposed." 43
Stat. 1260; 48 Stat. 256.

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
264

Opinion of the Court.

sentence. Neither probation nor suspension of execution
rescinded the judgment sentencing petitioner to imprisonment; athe one merely ordered that petitioner be released
under the supervision of probation officials, the other that
enforcement of his sentence be postponed. Upon their
revocation, without further court action, the original
sentence remainied for execution as though it had never
been suspended. Cf. Miller v. Aderhold, 288 U. S.206,
211.
If then the power to set aside and increase the prison
term of the original sentence is to be inferred at all from
§ 2, it must be drawn from the clause which empowers the
court after revocation of the probation and the suspension
of sentence to "impose any sentence which might originally have been imposed." It is undisputed in the instant
case that the court could originally have imposed a threeyear sentence. Therefore the existence of power to set
aside the first judgment in order to increase the sentence
would be a perfectly logical inference from the clause if
it stood alone, because two valid sentences for the same
conviction cannot coexist. But the clause cannot be read
in isolation; it must be read in the context of the entire
Act. And in the absence of compelling language we
should not read into it an inferred grant of power which
necessarily would bring it into irreconcilable conflict
with other provisions of the Act.
To accept the government's interpretation of this clause
would produce such a conflict. Section 1 of the the Probation Act provides the procedural plan for release on
probation. After judgment of guilt, the trial court is
aCf. United States v.Pile, 130 U. S. 2S0; United States v. Weiss, 28
F. Supp. 59S, 599; )'eriattov. Unitcd States, 107 F. 2d 372; Kriebel v.
Unitcd States, 10 F. 2d 762; Ackerson v.United States, 15 F. 2d 268,
269; Moss v. United States, 72 F. 2d 30, 32; King v. Commonioealth,
246 Mass. 57, 60, 140 N. E. 253; Belden v.Hugo, SS Conn. 500, 504,
91 A. 369; In re Hall, 100 Vt. 197, 202, 136 A. 24.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

authorized "to suspend the imposition or execution of
sentence and to place the defendant upon probation.
..

"

(Italics supplied.)

By this language Congress

conferred upon the court a choice between imposing sentence before probation is awarded or after probation is
revoked. In the first instance the defendant would be
sentenced in open court to imprisonment for a definite
period; in the second, hewould be informed in open court
that the imposition of sentence was being postponed. In
both instances he then would be informed of his release
on probation upon conditions fixed by the court. The
difference in the alternative methods is plain. Under
the first, where execution of sentence is suspended, the
defendant leaves the court with knowledge that a fixed
sentence for a definite term of imprisonment hangs over
him; under the second, he is made aware that no definite
sentence has been imposed and that if his probation is
revoked the court will at that time fix the term of his
imprisonment. It is at once apparent that if we accept
the government's interpretation this express distinction
which § 1 draws between the alternative methods of imposing sentence would be completely obliterated. In the
words of the government, any sentence pronounced upon
the defendant before his release on probation would be a
"dead letter." Thus the express power to suspend execution of sentence granted by § 1 would, by an inference
drawn from §2, be reduced to a meaningless formality.
No persuasive reasons relating to congressional or administrative policy have been suggested to us which justify
construing § 2 in this manner.
The ten-year legislative history of the Probation Act
strongly suggests that Congress intended to draw a sharp
distinction between the power to suspend execution of a
sentence and the alternative power to defer its imposition. The first probation legislation was passed by Congress in 1917 but failed to receive the President's signa-

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
204

Opinion of the Court.

ture. As originally introduced this bill provided only
for the suspension of imposition of sentence.' After extended hearings the Senate Judiciary Committee reported
it with amendments including two which were intended
to grant courts power to choose between suspending imposition and suspending execution.' But when the bill
finally passed both Houses the power to suspend imposition had been eliminated and only the power to suspend
execution remained.' Between 1917 and 1925, when the
present Act was passed and approved by the President,
the several congressional committees interested in probation legislation considered numerous bills. Some provided only for suspension of imposition, some only for
suspension of execution, and some for either method as the
court saw fit.! During this period there were advocates of
those bills which provided for the suspension of imposition
of sentence, but others opposed such bills. Attorney
General Palmer, belonging to the latter group, expressed
his opposition to a bill which provided for the suspension of
imposition, pointing out that, "The judge may also, in his
discretion, terminate the probation at any time within the
period specified and require the defendant to serve not a
sentence which, had been originallypronounced upon him,
but a sentence to be pronounced at the time of the termination of the probation for the act contemplates that in
4Hearings before subcommittee of the Committee on the Judiciary, U. S. Senate, on S. 1092, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., March 25, 1916,
pp. 5, 6.
SReport No. 5S7, Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 64th Cong.,
2d Sess.
6 54 Cong. Rec. 3637, 4373; Hearings before the House Committee
on the Judiciary, 66th Cong., 2d Sess., on H. R. 340, 1111 and 12036,
March 9, 1920, pp. 106-107, 112-113.
Summaries of state legislation were inserted into the records of
the committee hearings and many witnesses discussed such legislation.
See, e. g., Ibid., 123-130, 3S-44. Like the bills before Congress, the
state probation acts were not uniform in their treatment of suspension of sentence.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

granting probation a court suspends even the imposition
of a sentence. . . . The conferring of such powers upon
judges would not, it seems to me, contribute to the proper
and uniform administration of criminal justice." 8 (Italics supplied.) In the end Congress declined to adopt one
method of suspension to the exclusion of the other and instead granted the courts power to apply either method
according to the circumstances of each individual case.
From this compromise of the conflicting views on the
proper method of suspension we may conclude that Congress indicated approval of the natural consequences of
the application of each method. As understood by Attorney General Palmer one of these consequences was that
when the method of suspension of execution was used the
defendant could be required to serve only the sentence
which had been originally pronounced upon him.
A construction of the Act to preserve the distinctive
characteristics of the two methods of suspension is not
inconsistent with the manner in which it has been enforced
and administered. From the passage of the Act until
1940' the Attorney General exercised supervision over
administration of the Act."0 In 1930 the Attorney Gena Ibid., 105.

9 In 1940 administration of the probation system was transferred

to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts under the
provisions of an Act passed August 7, 1939. 53 Stat. 1223, 1225.
10The

original Act required probation officers to "make such reports

to the Attorney General as he may at any time require." 43 Stat.
1261. In June, 1925, three months after enactment of the law, the

Attorney General sent to all United States District Judges a memorandum of suggestions in which he comprehensively discussed the duties
of judges and probation officers and requested that monthly reports be
made to him concerning the probation activities in each court. See
1925 Annual Reports and Proceedings of the National Probation Association, 227-230. In 1930 an amendment to the Probation Act stated
that the Attorney General should "endeavor by all suitable means to

promote the efficient administration of the probation system and the
enforcement of the probation laws in all United States courts." 46
Stat. 503, 504. See also 53 Stat. 1225.

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
264

Opinion of the Court.

eral in a carefully considered opinion reached the conclu-

sion that if Congress had intended by § 2 of the Probation
Act "to create such an important power, [as that for
which the government here contends] it would seem that
more explicit language would have been used." 36
0. A. G. 186, 192. A comprehensive two-volume report
by the Attorney General entitled "Survey of Release
Procedures" published in 1939 adopted this interpretation of § 2: "Where imposition of sentence was originally
suspended and probation granted, and the probation and
suspension are later revoked, it is plain that before the
offender can be imprisoned imposition of sentence is
necessary. And since the case reverts to its status at the
time probation was granted, the court clearly is free to
impose 'any sentence which might originally have been
imposed.' 18 U. S. C. § 725 (1934). But where the court
imposed sentence but suspended the execution of it, it
would seem that when the suspension of execution is
revoked the original sentence becomes operative." Significantly, the report further pointed out that "No case has
been found wherein the court, upon revocation of suspension of execution, increased the original sentence." 1
So far as pointed out to us the present and two other
cases are the only ones in which federal courts have, upon
revocation of probation, increased a definite sentence
which had been imposed upon an offender prior to his
release on probation. Cf. United States v. Moore, 101 F.
2d 56; Remer v. Regan, 104 F. 2d 704. The Moore case
"Attorney General's Survey of Release Procedures, Vol. I, p. 13.
Asserting that there is a distinction between a decrease and an increase of sentence, the report further stated: "However, it has been held
that when suspension of execution is revoked the court may modify
the original sentence so as to decrease the term of imprisonment."
Ibid. Two Circuit Courts of Appeals had construed the Act as authorizing in that circumstance a judgment which reduced the term of the
original sentence. United States v. Antinori (C. C. A. 5), 59 F. 2d
171; Scalia v. United States (C. C. A. 1), 62 F. 2d 220.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

was decided January 16, 1939, without discussion of the
power of the court to increase the sentence. The Regan
case was decided May 26, 1939, and the court pointed out
that defendant apparently conceded that imposition of
an increased sentence was authorized by the Probation
Act. We have, therefore, an administration of the probation law from its passage in 1925 until 1939, in which the
Attorney General not only assumed but expressly stated
by official opinion that a definite sentence, execution of
which had been suspended, could not be increased after the
suspension had been revoked for breach of probation conditions; and in which the federal courts had apparently
not undertaken to act contrary to the Attorney General's
interpretation.
To construe the Probation Act as not permitting the
increase of a definite term of imprisonment fixed by a prior
valid sentence gives full meaning and effect both to the
first and second sections of the Act. In no way does it
impair the Act's usefulness as an instrument to accomplish
the basic purpose of probation, namely to provide an individualized program offering a young or unhardened offender an opportunity to rehabilitate himself without
institutional confinement under the tutelage of a probation official and under the continuing power of the court
to impose institutional punishment for his original offense
in the event that he abuse this opportunity. To accomplish this basic purpose Congress vested wide discretion in
the courts. See Burns v. United States, 287 U. S. 216.
Thus Congress conferred upon the courts the power to
decide in each case whether to impose a definite term of
imprisonment in advance of probation or to defer the
imposition of sentence, the alternative to be adopted to
depend upon the character and circumstances of the
individual offender. All we now hold is that having
exercised its discretion by sentencing an offender to a

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
264

FRANxrTR,

J., dissenting.

definite term of imprisonment in advance of probation, a
court may not later upon revocation of probation set aside
that sentence and increase the term of imprisonment.
Reversed.
Dissenting opinion of MR. Jusicz FANKFuRTm, in
which the CHIEF JUSTICE and Mit. JusTIcE REw concur.
The device of probation grew out of a realization that
to make the punishment fit the criminal requires wisdom
seldom available immediately after conviction. Imposition of sentence at that time is much too often an obligation to exercise caprice, and to make convicted persons
serve such a sentence is apt to make law a collaborator in
new anti-social consequences. Probation is an experimental device serving both society and the offender. It
adds the means for exercising wisely that discretion which,
within appropriate limits, is given to courts. The probation system was devised to allow persons guilty of antisocial conduct to continue at large but under appropriate
safeguards. The hope of the system is that the probationer will derive encouragement and collaboration in his
endeavors to remain in society and never serve a day in
prison. The fulfillment of that hope largely rests on the
efficacy of the probation system, and that depends on a
s~jfficient number of trained and skilful probation officers.
Thus the probation system is in effect a reliance on the
future to reveal treatment appropriate to the probationer.
In the nature of things, knowledge which may thus be
gained is not generally available when the moment for
conventional sentencing arrives. Since assessment of an
appropriate punishment immediately upon conviction
becomes very largely a judgment based on speculation,
the function of probation is to supplant such speculative
judgment by judgment based on experience. For this

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKFURTFR,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S

reason probation laws fix a tolerably long period of probation, as, for instance, the five-year period of the Federal
Probation Act.
In view of all that led to the adoption of probation and
the light its workings have cast, the imposition of a suspended term sentence is meaningless if indeed it does not
contradict the central idea underlying probation. A convicted person who is given a term sentence and then placed
on probation hopes never to spend a day in prison. The
court returning the probationer to the community likewise assumes that the influence of probation will save the
probationer from future imprisonment. To treat the
pronouncement of a term sentence as a kind of bargain
whereby the probationer knows that, no matter what,
he cannot be put in prison beyond the term so named is to
give a wholly unreal interpretation to the procedure. We
certainly should not countenance the notion that a probationer has a vested interest in the original sentence nor encourage him to weigh the length of such a sentence against
any advantages he may find in violating his probation.
To bind the court to such a sentence is undesirable in its
consequences and violative of the philosophy of probation. As we pointed Out very recently, the difference to a
probationer between imposition of sentence followed by
probation and suspension of the imposition of sentence "is
one of trifling degree." Korematsu v. United States, 319
U. S. 432,435. The fact is that term sentences of which the
execution is suspended are likely to be as full of vagaries
and as unrelated to insight relevant to treatment for particular individuals, as are term sentences the execution
of which is not suspended. The capricious nature of such
defined sentences dominates all statistical and other evidence regarding conventional judicial sentencing, e. g.,
Criminal Justice in Cleveland (1922) 303 et seq. and
particularly Tables 20 and 21, and Ambard v. Attorney
General for Trinidad and Tobago [1936] A. C. 322, and

ROBERTS v. UNITED STATES.
264

FRANKFmU Rm,

J., dissenting.

has led to suggestions for more scientific methods of sentencing, see Smith, Alfred E., Progressive Democracy
(1928) 209 et seq.; Warner and Cabot, Judges and Law
Reform (1936) 156 et seq.; Cantor, Crime and Society
(1939) 254 et seq.; Glueck, CriminalCareersin Retrospect
(1943) c. XVII.
If the experience of the District Court for the Southern
District of New York-the district having the heaviest
volume of federal criminal prosecutions-is a fair guide,
the imposition of sentence is more frequently suspended
than is its execution. The only practical result of the
strained reading of the powers of the district courts by the
decision today may well lead trial judges generally to place
probationers on probation without any tentative sentence.
A construction which leads to such a merely formal result,
one so easily defeated in practice, should be avoided unless
the purpose, the text and the legislative history of the
Act converge toward it. The policy of probation clearly
counsels against it, and neither the words of the Act nor
their legislative history contradict that policy. So far
as it is significant on this phase, the legislative history
looks against rather than for such an undesirable construction. In contrast to the present Act, the first measure
passed by Congress conferred only the power to suspend
execution of sentence and upon its revocation required
the defendant "to serve the sentence . . . originally imposed." H. R. 20414, 64th Cong., 2d Sess. (1917). This
enactment suffered a pocket veto. In reporting the present legislation to the House of Representatives, its Committee on the Judiciary explained that "In case of failure
to observe these conditions [of probation], those on probation may be returned to the court for sentence." H.
Report No. 1377, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., 2.
And the text of the legislation does not defeat this policy.
Indubitably petitioner was arrested and brought before
the court during his period of probation. In that event

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxmURTE,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

the statute is explicit in its direction that "the court may
revoke the probation . . . and may impose any sentence

which might originally have been imposed." The court
having followed the mandate of the statute, it seems irrelevant and unimportant whether petitioner became a
probationer either by a postponement of sentence or by a
suspension of a sentence already imposed. We cannot
say that the statute does not contemplate that the new
sentence which it authorizes shall be effective. The obvious purpose is that it should become so either by superseding any sentence earlier imposed or by revoking the
suspension of imposition of sentence if none was imposed.
Such is the plain meaning and effect of the direction that
upon the arrest of the probationer "the court may revoke
the probation or the suspension of sentence, and may impose any sentence which might originally have been imposed." In other words, suspension whether of the sentence or of its execution leaves a trial court free to commit
the criminal to prison if he fails to meet the test of freedom during the probationary period.
It would be strange if the Constitution stood in the way
of a system so designed for the humane treatment of offenders. To vest in courts the power of adjusting the consequences of criminal conduct to the character and capacity
of an offender, as revealed by a testing period of probation, of course does not offend the safeguard of the Fifth
Amendment against double punishment. By forbidding
that no person shall "be subject for the same offense to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb," that Amendment
guarded against the repetition of history by trying a man
twice in a new and independent case when he already had
been tried once, see Holmes, J., in Kepner v. United Statee,
195 U. S. 100, 134, or punishing him for an offense when
be had already suffered the punishment for it. But to set
a man at large after conviction on condition of his good be-

UNITED STATES v. DOTTERWEICH.

277

Counsel for Parties.

264

havior and on default of such condition to incarcerate him,
is neither to try him twice nor to punish him twice. If
Congress sees fit, as it has seen fit, to employ such a system
of criminal justice there is nothing in the Constitution to
hinder.
UNITED STATES v. DOTTERWEICH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 5. Argued October 12, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
Upon review of the conviction of a corporate officer on informations
* charging the corporation and him with shipping in interstate commerce adulterated and misbranded drugs, in violation of § 301 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, held:
1. The provision of § 305 of the Act, that before reporting a
violation to the United States attorney the Administrator shall
give to the person against whom such proceeding is contemplated
a notice and an opportunity to present his views, does not create
a condition precedent to a prosecution under the Act. P. 278.
2. It was open to the jury to find the officer guilty though failing
to find the corporation guilty. P. 279.
3. Where there is no guaranty such as under § 303 (c) of the
Act affords immunity from prosecution, that section can not be
read as relieving corporate officers and agents from liability for
violation of § 301. P. 283.
4. The District Court properly left to the jury the question of
the officer's responsibility for the shipment; and the evidence was
sufficient to support the verdict. P. 285.
131 F. 2d 500, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 318

U. S. 753, to review the reversal of a

conviction for violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorneys
General Wendell Berge and Tom C. Clark, and Messrs.
Oscar A. Provost, Edward G. Jennings, and Valentine
Brookes were on the brief, for the United States.

