OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

remedial works 'specified and heretofore mentioned, met
every reasonable equity which was asserted by it. It is in
substantial accord with the decree of this court in a somewhat similar case. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206
U. S. 230. We find no error in the decree of the court
below and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

CITY OF OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 244. Argued April 22, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.
Rights conferred by a municipal ordinance on a corporation qualified
to conduct a public business come from the State through delegated

power to the city.
A municipal ordinance granting to a corporation qualified to carry on a
public business, such as a telephone system, the right to use the
streets for that purpose, is more than a mere revocable license; it is
the granting of a property right, assignable, taxable and alienable, an
asset of value and a basis of credit.
Such a grant is one of property rights in perpetuity unless limited in
duration by the grant itself or by a limitation imposed by the general
law of the State or by the corpoiate powers of the municipality.
The powers of municipalities of Kentucky to grant licenses in the streets
for telephones were not limited in 1889 as to time; and, under a
charter provision giving power to regulate streets and alleys, a municipality had ample power to grant a franchise to a telephone company
to place and maintain poles and wires thereon.
A corporation is capable of taking a grant of street rights of longer
duration than its own corporate existence if the grant expressly
inures to the benefit of the grantees, assigns and successors. St.
Claf Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63, distinguished.
A reservation to alter or amend in a municipal ordinance, granting
rights in the streets to a corporation to carry on a public utility, as
the necessities of the city demand, is simply a reservation of police

OWENSBORO o.CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

59

Statement of the Case.

control incidental to the unabridgeable police power and does not
reserve a right to revoke or repeal the ordinance itself.
While the power to destroy contrqct rights may be reserved by a
municipality in the ordinance granting them, the reservation must
be clear and explicit.
An ordinance requiring a telephone corporation to remove from the
streets its poles and wires which had been placed there under a former
ordinance granting permission so to do without specifying any
period, or else pay a rental not prescribed in the original ordinance,
held unconstitutional under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, distinguished.
Where, under the statutes of the State, a corporation formed by consolidation of several previously *existing corporations becomes by
express terms vested with all the assets of such constituent corporations, rights in the streets under municipal ordinances pass to the
new corporation, and such rights are protected against impairment
by the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
Where the judgment itself makes the opinion a part of the record, the
bar of the judgment is confined, to those questions to which the
opinion expressly declares the litigation was limited.

THiS case involves the nature and duration of the right
of the Telephone Company to maintain its poles and wires
upon the streets of the City of Owensboro. The ordinance
under which it, or its predecessors in right, title and
property, have maintained a telephone system in the
City of Owensboro, was passed on December 4, 1889.
Inasmuch as it contains several provisions which require
consideration, it is set out in full in the margin.'
Council Proceedings, Dec. 4th, 1889.
Minute Book "F," Page 157.
The following ordinance, after being twice read, was enacted by the
following vote, to-wit: Ayes, Mess. Baer, Brotherton, Vargason, Cullen,
Higdon, Decker, Noes, None. Viz:
Be it ordained by the Mayor and Common Council of Owensboro,
JKy.:
That the Cumberland Telephone Company its successors and assigns, is authorized and hereby granted the right to erect and maintain
upon the public streets and alleys of said city any number ot Telephone
poles of proper size, straight and shaved, smooth, set plumb and kept
erect, and any number of wires thereon with the right to connect such

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

230 U. S.

The grantee under that ordinance at once proceeded to
erect its plant and to place its poles and wires upon the
streets and it and its successors and assigns have ever since
maintained and operated a telephone system. The city
wires with the building when teiephone stations are established, pro\ ided such poles shall be located and kept so as not to interferewith
the travel upon said streets or alleys or the substantial use thereof by
the inhabitants of said city.
SEC. 2. That the said Cumberland Telephone Company shall erect
only one line of poles on a street except for the length of one block on
the street upon which the exchange building may be located, and where
the wires of said company enter such exchange building the said company shall have the right to erect and maintain its poles on both sides
of such streets and the lowest wire of said telephone company shall not
be less than twenty-five feet from the ground, except where such wires
enter the exchange building or telephone stations.
Nothing in this ordinance contained shall be construed as an exclusive
right to said conipany to erect and maintain. poles upon the streets
and alleys of said city, and no obstruction shall be placed by said company to the erection and maintenance of poles by any other person or
company. Such company shall enjoy such rights in common with all
other persons or companies, to whom said city may see proper to extend the same right.
SEc. 3. The said telephone company shall repair all streets and
alleys it may enter upon and use for the purpose herein provided, which
by the aets of said company or persons in its emnploy shall have become
injured or damaged or have made unsafe.
All proper precautions and safeguards shall be used to prevent such
use from becoming either injurious or annoying to the inhabitants of
said city, and should any damage or injury result to any pe('son or property by reason of the erection and maintenance of such poles, or the
failure to keep the streets and alleys in repair as herein required, and
I he said city shall be held liable by reason thereof, such company shall
pay all damages and costs resulting therefrom to the parties injured, or
to the citk if paid by her.
Se. 4. The rights and privileges hereby granted to said telephone
company are upon the terms, and conditions following, vim: That said
company shall furnish free of charge one telephone for each engine or
hose house, now erected or which may hereafter be erected by said
city, one for police head-quarters, and one for the mayor's office

OWENSBORO v. CUMBIERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

fit

Statement of the Case.

has used the company's poles for the maintenance of its
fire alarm service, and has had the benefit of a free public
telephone service for municipal purposes.
In January, 1909, the city council passed an ordinance
requiring the telephone company to remove from its
streets and alleys all of the poles and wires "within a
reasonable time after the passage of the ordinance," and
upon failure to so remove, the mayor was directed to have
them removed. This was, however, subject to a provision, "that said company shall have the right to purchase
from the said city a franchise authorizing it to maintain
said poles and wires and use same as provided under the
laws of the State, upon proper conditions to be prescribed
by an ordinance to be passed upon request of said conipany to the common council of said City."
This bill was filed for the purpose of enjoining the
enforcement of this ordinance, the contention being that
it was an impairment of the company's contractual
property rights in the streets, and, as such, in contravention of the contract and due process clauses of the Constitution of the United States. Upon a final hearing the
court below sustained .the bill and permanently enjoined
the enforcement of the repealing ordinance.
making at this time only two such telephones to be furnished by said
company for the use of the city, shall be kept in good order for constant use by said company.
Said company shall also allow the city the exclusive use of two feet of
one arm on each pole for its fire alarm telegraph; The fire alarm telegraph poles of the city may be used by said company for its wires
provided such wires be kept two feet from the said fire alarm telegrAph
wires, and such poles used by the said telephone company shall be replaced by it when needed.
SEc. 5. All poles of said telephone company shall be set close to the
inner side of the sidewalk curbing.
SEc. 6. This ordinance may be altered or amended as the necessities
of the city may demand.
This ordinance shall be in force from and after its passage."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

Mr. R. S. Todd and Mr. George W. Jolly for appellant:
Under the Kentucky Stafutes §§ 555 and 556, the
consolidation of two or more corporations into one corporation terminates the corporate existence of each constituent
corporation at the date of such consolidation. Shields v.
Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, 323.
A grant by a municipality to a telephone company of
a right to occupy the streets and alleys of the city, for
putting up poles and wires and conducting a telephone
business, made under a power to "regulate the streets,
alleys and sidewalks, and all repairs thereof," is limited in
its duration to the corporate life of the company, under
its charter at the time of the graht, where no time is
fixed for its duration in the ordinance making the grant.
Street Ry. Co. v. Birmingham, 79 Alabama, 465; Water Co.
v. Boise City, 123 Fed. Rep. 232; Owensboro v. Cumberland
Telephone Co., 174 Fed. Rep. 739, 752; Citizens' St. Ry.
Co. v, Detroit Railway, 171 U. S. 48; Railway Co. v. Logansport, '114 Fed. Rep. 688; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Denver,
161 Fed. Rep. 769, 771; Oregon Ry. Co. v. OregonianRy.
Co., 130 U. S. 26; Rock Island v, Central Telephone Co.,
132 Ill. App. 248; Rockwith v. State Road Bridge Co.,
145 Michigan, 455; Snell v. Chicago, 133 Illinois, 413, 432;
State v. Cape Girardeau R. R' Co., 207 Missouri, 85;
State v. Scott Co. Ry. Co., 207 Missouri, 54; St. Clair
Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63; Toll Roads v. People,
21 Colorado, 429; Virginia Canon Road Co. v. People, 22
Colorado, 249; Wyandotte Electric Co. v. Wyandotte, 124
Michigan, 43, 47.
Uiider the piovisions of the act of the legislature of the
State of Kentucky creating a new charter for the City of
Owensboro, in 1882 and in force when the grant in question
was made, the power of amendment and repeal was given,
and reserved to the 6ity, and the grant to the appellee was
necessarily made subject to this power. Section 10, 1 Acts
KentuckY, 1881, pp. 817-856; Kentucky Statutes (1909),

OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

63

Argument for AppellanL

8 570; Kentucky Constitution, § 190; Gas Co. v. Des
Moines, 44 Iowa, 508; Greenwood v. Freight Co., i05 U. S.
13; Griffin v. Kentucky Ins. Co., 3 Bush (Ky.), 592; Hager
v. Walker, 128 Kentucky, 1; Hopkins v. Swansea, 4 M. &
W. 621; City Ry. Co.v. Louisville, 8 Bush, 420; Presbyterian
Church v. New York, 5 Cowan, 532; Southern Telephone &
TelegraphCo. v. Richmond, 98 Fed. Rep. 672; S.C., 103 Fed.
Rep. 31; Stuyvesant v. New York, 7 Cowan, 585; Vanderbilt
v. Adams, 7 CoWan, 349; Cooley's Const. Lir. (5th ed.)
196, 240; Dillon on Mun. Corp. §§ 245-573; 23 Cyc. 1142,
and cases cited in note 57.
Power to repeal or modify the ordinance of December 4,
1889, existed not only by the provisions of § 10 of city
charter of 1882, but also under the general reservation
act of February 14, 1856, carried into Kentucky Statutes
as § 1987; it also existed by reason of the acceptance of the
present constitution adopted in 1891, by appellee, January 31, 1896, § 3 of which provided that every grant of a
franchise, privilege or exemption, shall remain subject to
revocation, alteration or amendment.
In the absence of express legislative authorization a municipality cannot make a perpetual grant to the use of the
streets and thoroughfares of the city. Street Ry. CO. v.
Birmingham, 79 Alabama, 465; Street Ry. Co, v. Detroit
Railway, 171 U. S. 48; Railway Co. v. Logansport, 114
Fed. Rep. 688.
Public grants should be construed liberally in favor of
the public and strictly against the grantee; nothing passes
by implication. CharlesRiver Bridge Case, 11 Peters,
420; Fertilizing Cb. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S.666; Greenwood
v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Water Company v. Knoxville,
200 U. S.33; Minturn v. Larue, 2? Howard, 43, 50; Oregon
Ry. Co. v. Oregonian Ry: Co., 130 U. S.26, 30; Thomas V.
Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96
U. S,63.
Where there has been a previous litigation between the

OCTrOBER TERMJ, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 17.S.

sarne parties relative to the same cause of action, the
judgment of the court therein places the matter at rest
forever between the parties thereto and their privies.
Bigelow on Estoppel, 72, 73, 152; Black on Judgments,
§§ 720, 731; Case v. Beauregard, 101 U. S. 688; Coffey v.
United States, 116 U. S. 436; Davis v. McCorkle, 14 Bush
(Ky.), 754; Francesv. Wood, 81 Kentucky, 22; Freeman on
Judgments, §§ 249, 270; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 6;
Hardwic, v. Young, 110 Kentucky, 504; Henderson v.
Henderson, 3 Hare, 115; Water Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U. S.
33; Lyon v. Perin Mfg. Co, 125 U. S. 700; Martinv. Evans,
85 Maryland, 8 ,Rex v. Duchess of Kingston, 20 Howell's St.
Tr. 355 Van Fleet on Former Adjudication, §§ 37, 40;
Baker v. Cummings, 181 tJ. S. 117-124-5; S. P. R. Co. v.
United States, 168 U. S,48,49, 50.
It is the judgment or decree of the court that settles
the matters in controversy and conclusively fixes the rights
of the parties. The opi.ion of the judge or chancellor
giving his reasons therefor, "is no part of the judgment
itself." Durant v. Essex, (o., 7 Wall. 107, 110; Case v.
Beauregard, 101 U. S. 692; Freeman on Judgments, § 249,
and cases cited.
Mr. William L. Granbery, with whom Mr. Clarence M.
Finn and Mr. Hunt Chipley were on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE LURTON, a fter making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinio;,i of the court.

1. That the right conferred by the ordinance involved is
something more than a nere license, is plain. A license has
been generally defined aB a mere personal privilege to do
acts upon the land of the licensor of a temporary character,
and revocable at the will. of the latter unless, according
to some authorities, in the meantime expenditures contemplated by the licensor when the license was given,

OWENSBORO v- CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

65

Opinion of the Court.

have been made. See Gree nood Lake & P. J. Railroad v.
New York &c. Railroad, 1.34 N. Y. 435, 440; Trustees of
Southampton v. Jessup, 162 N. Y. 122, 126.
That the grant in the present case was not a mere
license
is evident from the fact that it was upon its face 6feither
personal, nor for a temporary purpose. The right conferred came from the State through delegated power to the
city. The grantee was clothed with the franchise to be a
corporation and to conduct a public business, which required the use of the streets, that it might have access to
the people it, was to serve. Its charges were subject to
regulation by law and it was subject to all of the police
power of the city.
That an ordinance granting the right to place and maintain upon the streets of a city poles and wires of s:uch a
company is the grantilng of a property right, has been too
many times decided by this court to need more than a
reference to some of the later cases: Detroit v. )etromt
Street Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368, 395; City of Louaiovillk v.
Cumberland Telephorn and Telegraph Co., 224 U. S. 649,
661; Boise Water Co. v. Boise City, opinion just handed

down, post, p. 84. As a property right it was assignable,
taxable and alienable C,enerally it is an asset of great.
value to such utility cumpanies and a principal basis for
credit.
2. The grant by ordinance to an incorporated telephone
company, its successors and assigns, of the right to occupy
the streets and alleys of a city with its poles and wires
for the necessary conduct of a public telephone business,
is a grant of a property right in perpetuity, unless limited
in duration by the grant itself or as a consequence of some
limitation imposed by the general law of the State, or by
the corporate powers of the city making the grant. Detroit
v. DetroitStreet Railway, supra;Louisville v. Telephone Co.,
supra; People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1, 42; Woodhaven
Gas Light Co. v. Deehan, 153 N. Y. 528; Mobile v. L. & N.
VOL. CCXXX.----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Railroad Co., 84 Alabama, 115; Town of Arcata v. Arcata
RailroadCo., 92 California, 639; Hudson Tel. Co. v. Jersey
City, 49 N. J. L. 303; Dillon Mun. Corp., 5th ed., § 1265;
Nebraska Telephone Co. v. Fremont, 72 Nebraska, 25, 29;
Plattsmouth v. Nebraska Tel. Co., 80 Nebraska, 460, 466.
If there be authority to make the grant and it contains
no limitation or qualification as to duration, th? plainest
principles of justice and right demand that it shall not
be cut down, in the absence of some controlling principle
of public policy, This conclusion finds support from a
consideration of the public and permanent character of the
business such companies conduct and the large investment which is generally contemplated. If the grant be
accepted and the contemplated expenditure made, the
right cannot be destroyed by legislative enactment or
city ordinance based upon legislative power, without
violating the prohibitions placed in the Constitution for
the protection of property rights. To quote from a most
weighty writer upon municipal corporations, in approving of the decision in Peoplev. O'Brien, supra, a decision
accepted and approved by this court in Detroit v. Detroit
Street Railway, supra--"The grant to the Railway Company may or may not have been improvident on the part
of the municipality, but haying been made and the rights
of innocent investors and of third parties as creditors
and otherwise having intervened, it would have been a
denial of justice to have refused to give effect to the franchise according to its tenor and import, when fairly construed, particularly, when the construction adopted by the
court was in accord with the general understanding.
In the absence of language expressly limiting the estate
or right of the company, we think the court correctly
held under the legislation and facts that the right created
by the grant of the 'franchise was perpetual, and not for
a limited term only."' Dillon on Mun. Corp., 5th ed.,

§ 1265.

OWENSBORO v.CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

3. There seems to have been no general law in Kentucky
under which a telephone company could acquire the necessary street easement; nor until the enactment of § 4639-b
of the Kentucky Statutes, was there any provision in
the general law in regard to the acquisition of such rights
in or upon the public roads outside of municipal corporations. In both cases the right to place and maintain
poles and wires upon either streets or roads was dependent
in the one case upon the municipal power of control over
its streets, and in the other upon the power of the county
fiscal courts by virtue of their control over county roads.
The original source of power over both streets and highways is the State. But this power of control is generally
delegated in some form to the municipalities and county
authorities of the State. Thus the county fiscal courts,
by § 4306, Kentucky Statutes, are given "general charge
and supervision of the public roads," etc. Concerning
the power resulting from the grant by the State to control
streets or public highways, the Kentucky court, in American Car Co. v. Johnson County, 147 Kentucky, 69, 71, said:
"The right to grant a franchise presupposes and is based
upon the right of the authority granting the franchise
to control the property over which the franchise is granted
or which is affected by it. For example, the fiscal court
could grant a franchise authorizing the erection of poles
along the highways of the county, as :the fiscal court
had control of the highways. And so, municipal corporations may grant franchises to use the streets and public
ways of a city." Again, in Jackson-HazardTelephone Co. V.
Holliday, 143 Kentucky, 149, 150, the court said:" That the
fiscal court having, as it did, under section 4306, Kentucky
Statutes, the control and supervision of the public roads
of the county, had authority before the enactment of section 4679-b of the Kentucky Statutes to grant the company
the right to erectits poles along this road in the absence of
a statute expressly giving the court such authority, is we

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

think settled by the case of Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Avritt, 120 Kentucky, 34." Section 4679-b,
referred to, gives to telephone companies the right to
place their poles along such roads subject to regulation
by the fiscal courts, but it does not deal with the streets
of municipal corporations. The right of such companies
to occupy the streets of villages and cities was, therefore,
dependent upon the charter powers, express or implied,
under which they were organized.
Owensboro was granted a special charter in 1882, by
which, among' other things, it is given power "to regulate
the streets, alleys and sidewalks and all improvements
and repairs thereof." If the county fiscal courts had
power to grant to such companies a franchise to place
their poles and wires along the public roads of a county
under the statute giving them "general charge" and right
to "supervise" such roads, it logically follows, as stated
in American Car &c. Co. v. Johnson, supra, that the City
of Owensboro under the power to "regulate" its streets
and alleys had ample authority to grant a franchise to
the Telephone Company to place and maintain its poles
and wires upon the streets.
The character of the business of such companies was
well known. Access. with their lines to the houses of their
customers in the city absolutely required the right to use
the public streets, either longitudinally or to cross them.
By such an exertion of its power to control and regulate
the use of the streets it did not authorize a new public
use. Such a use was a legitimate street use and did not
impose upon the owner of the fee in the street an additional
burden. Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Co. v.
Awritt, 120 Kentucky, 34. Neither was the city thereby
stripped bf its police power over the streets. Louisville
City Railway v. City of Louisuille, 8 Bush, 415, 420. Nor
did it 'undertake to grant an exclusive right. Express
power to grant an exclusive street franchise has generally

OWIENSBOIW)
2:3

. N,
-Opillioni

,.C[rMBEIANI)

TE;PtONE CO.

69

of the (Court.

Celt held essen tinI.
I)iloo, \lum, (Corp., 5th ed. §§ 1215,
121.8, 1234. The gran, in t,
his case was not exclusive, and
we are not called upon to deal with that question, since
the ordinance here involved expressly reserves the right
to make similar grants to other companies,
The great power of Congress over interstate commerce
is wrapped up in the power to "regulate"such commerce.
The authority of the City of St. Louis to compel the Western Union Telegraph Company to pay a rental for the
maintenamee of its polk's and wires upon the streets of
the city grew out of a charter power to "',regulate" its
streets and alleys. II this case (1.49 U. S. 465, 469),
the court said:
"The word 'regulate' is one of broad import. 11 is
the word used in the Federal Constitution to define the
power of Congress over foreign and interstate commerce,
and he who reads the many opinions of this court will
perceive how broad and comprehensive it has: been held
to be. If the city gives a right to the use of the streets
or public ground s , as it did, by ordinance No. 11,604, it
simply regulates the use when it prescribes the terms
and conditions upon which they shall be used."
In City of Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Company, 174 Fed, Rep. 739, a case involving the
regulation of the rates and charges of the present appellee,
the power of the City of Owensboro under its charter
power to "regulate" was held by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Sixth Circuit to amply justify the :grant
here involved, though its duration was pot involved or
considered.
That the power to "regulate" embraces power to grant
to such companies the right to place and maintain their
poles upon, the streets has been generally held: Pikes Peak
Power Co. v. Colorado Springs, 105 Fed., Rep. 1; C. C. A.
8th Circuit; Detroit Citizens' Railway v; Detroit, 64 Fed.
Rep. 628, 636; C. C. A. 6th Circuit. In the latter case

70

OCTOBER TERM, 191 2.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

it was held that a charter power to "open, close and widen
streets, and to prescribe, control and regulate the manner
in which the highways, streets and avenues shall be used
and enioyed," was a power broad enough to permit the
city to consent to the use of its streets for such purposes
by any company having the requisite franchise of a street
railway company. To the same effect see Dillon, Mun.
Corp., 2d ed., § 575; Atchison Street Railway v. Missouri
&c. Ry., 31 Kansas, 661; Southern Bell Telephone Co. v.
Mobile, 162 Fed. Rep. 523, 562; State v. Murphy, 134
Missouri, 562; Brown v. Duplessis, 14 La. Ann. 842;
Chicago, B. & Q. Railway v. Quincy, 136 Illinois, 489;
New Castle v. Lake Erie &c. Railroad, 155 Indiana,
18.
4. It is next insisted that the grant is limited to the life
of the corporation that accepted it. The assumptiofi that
this life was limited to twenty-five years from the date of
the organization of the grantee corporation is erroneous.
The articles of agreement did provide that the company
should terminate in twenty-five years, but as this was an
agreement of the stockholders inter sese, it was competent
for them, if the general incorporating act under which the
company was organized permitted, to extend its life. This
is precisely what the Kentucky act under which the company was organized permitted. Thus it provided that
corporations organized for any work of internal improvement could be formed to endure for fifty years, and those
formed for other purposes, for twenty-five years. General
Statutes of Kentucky 1888, c. 56, § 7, p. 764. But the
same act provided tha in either case the term might be
extended by action of three-fourths of the stockholders.
Thus, if it be assumed that the grant was limited to the
life of the grantee, that life was capable of extension at the
will of the stockholders, and an extension did occur as
contemplated. But this ordinance was to the Cumberland Telephone Company and its assigns. It vested a

OWENSBORO v. CUMBEtILAND [ELEPH)NE CO, 71
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property right, capable of passing to an assignee, and did
in fact pass to the present consolidated company, whose
life, by express action of its entire body of stockholders,
is for two hundred years. That a corporation is capable
of taking a grant of street rights of longer duration than
its own corporate existence is the settled law of this court:
Detroit v. Detroit Street Railway, supra; Louisville v.
Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., supra.
The case of St. Clair County Turnpike Company v.
Illinois, 96 U. S. 63, has been cited and relied upon as
deciding that a grant to a corporation is limited in duration to the life of the grantee. If the case is to be regarded
as holding the wide doctrine for which it has been cited,
it is in conflict with the cases cited above. But it does not
go so far as claimed. The grant there involved was of the
right to extend an existing turnpike over a certain dyke
and county bridge, and to maintain a toll-gate upon the
extension. The company to which this additional right
was given had been incorporated for a term of twenty-five
years. The grant was to the particular company by name
and was not to its assigns or successors. This court
likened such a grant to a grant at common law to a natural
person without words of restriction, which, said the court,
"creates only an estate for the life of the grantee; for he
can hold the property no longer than he himself exists."
The grant here involved was to the corporate grantee, its
assigns and successors, and falls under the principle of
the cases cited above.
5. It is next said that the power to grant found in the
city charter is coupled with the power to amend or repeal.
The tenth'section of the city charter provides that "The
Common Council shall have control of the finances and all
property, real and personal, belonging to the city, and
shall have full power to make; publish, and repeal all
ordinances for the following purposes." Then follows
fifty-seven sub-sections relating to the legislative power

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

of the council.' The twenty-seventh section gives the
council the power "to regulate the streets, alleys and
sidewalks and all repairs thereof."
The bpower to' be a corporation and to conduct a telephone business did not come from the city, nor could it.
The only thin'g which the ordinance pretends to do is to
grant an easement in the ste'eets which, as we have already
shown, was antiflimited right to place and maintain poles
and wires upon the streets, subject, however, tothe police
power of the city*.- This repealing 'ordinance, though, it
purports to be an* exer1cise, of the police power in the
"whereas" claude, proceeds immediately to contradict
the assertionthat the poles and wires are a "nuisance" by
the proviso:giving the comfpay" an opportunity to purchase the right to cofntinue the use of th stireets under
conditions" to be prescribed by ordinance," upon request
of said company. It'is a plain attempt to destroy the
vested proprty right'under which'a great plant had been
installed and' op erated'for mreI thian twenty-five years.
tgrah
was accepted and acted upon by'the
When that
grante it becaime a contractil between the'city and the
telephone company, which could not be revoked or repealed,' unless thedIpower to repeal was clearly and unmistakably reserved.
The sixhgsectioti of the granting ordinance provides
that, "This ordinance may, be' altered or amended as the
necessities of the city may demand." This is no more than
a reservation of the police control of the streets and of
the mode ani maneri of pla'cing arid maintaining the
poles and wires incident to the unabridgeable police
power of the city. See .Grand Trunk Railway v. South
Bend, 227 U. S. 544. It does not' reserve any right to
revoke or repeal theordinance, or to affect the rights
therein granted. *Nor does the city attempt to justify its
action in requiring the poles and wires to be removed from
the streets uiider that section, but solely upon the general

OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U: S.

73

Opinion of the Court.

power in the city charter "to make, publish and repeal
ordinances." This general power to repeal ordinances
obviously refers to ordinances which are legislative in
character, and exertions of the governmental power of the
municipal council,-a power in its nature not to be
abridged by irrepealable ordinances. Baltimore v. Baltimore Trust Co., 166 U. S. 673; Grand Trunk Railway v.
South Bend, supra. The power to repeal, alter and amend
such ordinances is one which inheres in the power to legislate, and its mention is pure surplusage.
To construe this general power of repeal as a reservation
of a power to revoke or destroy contractual rights which
have vested under an ordinance, which, upon its face,
makes no such reservation, would be to place every contract made by the city by virtue of an ordinance, legislative in form, subject to the mercy of changeable city
councils. In the absence of an express reservation in the,
contractual ordinance, or an express delegation of power
to revoke contracts under such ordinances, we think no
such extraordinary power is to be implied. Ashland v.
Wheeler, 88 Wisconsin, 607, 616.
Much the same question arose in Hudson Telephone
Company v. Jersey City, 49 N. J. L. 303, where the right
granted was'held to be irrevocable under a similar power.
Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, is not in point.
That case involved the repeal by the Massachusetts
legislature of a legislative charter, under a reserved power,
by general law of the State making "every act of incorporation (after a certain date) subject to amendment,
alteration or repeal, at the pleasure of the legislature."
That was a plain, unmistakable reservation of the right
to repeal at the pleasure of the State. This clause of the
charter in the instant case reserves no more than the
power to repeal, as well as to make and amend ordinances,
but by no means operates to convey the power to "repeal"
a grant of street rights which had been accepted and had

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

.230 U. S.

thereby become a contract under the protection of the
contract clause of the Constitution. That the right may
be reserved to destroy a contract may be conceded; but
when such a right is claimed, it mu~t be clear and explicit.
The contention here advanced, if conceded, would paralyze
the contractual power of the city, for if it has application
to this ordinance, it would equally apply to every other
contractual ordinance which the city might enact, though
the' contract had been accepted and expenditures made.
In Lake Roland El. Ry. v. Baltimore, 77 Maryland, 352,
an ordinance consenting to the laying of a double track
over designated streets was involved. This ordinance
could not become effective until confirmed by the legislature. The confirming act contained these words: "The
said Mayor and City Council to have the same power and
control hereafter in reference to the enforcement, amendment or repeal of said ordinance as it has or would have in
respect to any ordinance passed under its general power."
Later this ordinance was in part repealed, and the repeal
was held valid upon the ground that the control of the city
over its streets was a legislative power and that the
council could not consent to any rights therein which were
not revocable, although the city might be liable for
damages. The opinion does not rest upon the' theory that
any right of repeal was specially reserved in the ordihande
or by the confirmatory act. The validity of the repeal was
put upon the right to repeal every ordinance legislative
in character, The case is out of line with the great weight
of authority in respect to the irrevocable character of
property rights vested under an ordinance When the right
to revoke is not expressly reserved.
In Baltimore Trust Co. v. Baltimore, 64 Fed. Rep. 153,
Circuit Judge Goff refused to follow the case, holding that
the question of contract or no contract under such an
ordinance was a Federal question, and that the confirmatory legislation reserved no right of repeal, and that

OWENSBORO n. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

75

Opinion of the Court.

none existed under the general right to repeal ordinances.
In the same case, 166 U. S. 673, the decree of Judge Goff
was reversed upon the sole ground that the requirement
of the so-called repealing ordinance that the railway company should maintain but one track on one of the designated streets was a legitimate exercise of the police power,
and not a substantial change of the contract. The case is
so explained and distinguished in Grand Trunk Railway v.
South Bend, supra.
6. In June, 1900, the Cumberland Telephone and
Telegraph Company consolidated with the Ohio Valley
Telephone Company, likewise a Kentucky corporation,
under authority of the Kentucky act of April 5, 1893
(Acts of 1891, 1893, c. 171, p. 612). Although the separate
existence of the constituent corporations was terminated
and they became a single corporation, the consolidated
company was, by express provision of the act referred to,
"vested with all the property, business, credits, assets
and effects of the constituent corporations, without deed
or transfer, and bound for all their contracts and liabilities." Being property, alienable and assignable, the
street rights of the constituent companies passed to the
consolidated company. The same question arose and was
9xpressly decided in Louisville v.. Cumberland Telephone
& Telegraph Co., supra.
7. Finally, it was claimed that in a prior litigatipn in a
state court, between the same parties, the ordinance of
1889 had been held to be in excess of the power of the
city as nothing more than a revocable license. The suit
referred to had been brought by the Telephone Company to restrain the city from placing poles and wires of an
electric light system, in course of construction by the
,city, in such close proximity to the poles and wires of the
Telephone Company as to interfere with its current.
One of the defenses was that the city had no power under
its charter to make the grant which it had assumed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

DAY, McKENNA, HucHEs and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

2a0 U. S.

make by the ordinaice of 1889, and that the Telephone
Company was, therefore, a trespasser upon the streets.
Upon a final hearing the bill was dismissed. This decree
was pleaded as an adjudication of the question of the
validity of the ordinance under which the Telephone
Company now claims. But the judgment makes the
opinion of the court filed at the time "'a part of the record."
That opinion shows that the court dismissed the bill
because its object had failed, the city having actually
constructed its lines before final decree. In reference to the
issue as to the validity of the Telephone Company's
street rights, the Kentucky court said: "In passing upon
the question of granting or refusing the injunction, I
deem it wholly unnecessary to pass upon the validity or
invalidity of the ordinance discussed." The litigation,
though between the same parties, is upon an entirely
different cause of action. The bar of the former judgment
is, therefore, confined to the questions which were actually
litigated and decided in the former case, and it devolved
upon the city to show in support of its plea, the cause of
action being different in the present case, that the point
here in issue was adjudged in the former case. DeSollarv.
Hanscome, 158 U. S. 216; Virginia-Carolina Chemical
Co. v. Kirven, 215 U. S. 252.
We find no error in the decree of the court below and it
is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

McKENNA, MR. JUSTICE HUGHES
NEY,

and MR. JUSTICE PIT-

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the judgment and opinion
announced in this case. In my opinion the ordinance of
December 4,1889, granting to The Cumberland Telephone
& Telegraph Company, its successors and assignt, the

OWENSBORO v, CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S.

DAY, McKENNA, HUGHES

and

Pi'NEY,

77

JJ., dissenting.

right to use the streets and alleys of the City of Owensboro for the purpose of erecting poles and stringing wires
thereon to maintain a telephone system, did not grant a
perpetual franchise, because of the limitation upon the
authority of the City of Owensboro to grant a perpetual
franchise.
The case is not controlled by the previous cases in this
court, such as the late case of Louisville v. Cumberland
Telephone Co., 224 -U. S. 649, which had to do with the
construction of a legislative grant to a corporation having
perpetual succession and did not involve the construction
of the charter of a Kentucky city such as is here under
consideration.
The power to grant a perpetual franchise to telephohe
and similar companies desiring to use the streets and alleys
of the City of Owensboro is said to be derived under § 10
of the charter, conferring upon the common council in
subsection 27 the right to regulate streets, alleys and sidewalks and all repairs thereof in the city. Conceding that
if this power were conferred without limitation it might
authorize a grant in perpetuity of the character herein
involved, the authority found in subsection 27 as well as
other municipal powers are all granted to the common
council by the legislature of the State upon the following
terms, preceding the grant of authority: "§ 10. The
common council shall have control of the finances and all
property, real and personal, belonging to the city, and
shall have full power to make, publish, amend, and repeal
all ordinances for the following purposes, to wit." In other
words the authority granted to regulate the streets is
limited by the express reservation that it shall be exercised
subject to the power of the city to amend and repeal any
ordinance so enacted.
I Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, wherein this
court held that a grant to a street railway company subject
to the limitation of the right to amend, alter or repeal was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
DAY, McKENNA, HUoHES and PIrNEY, JJ., dissenting.

230 U. S.

subject to future legislation ending the right of the street
railway company to operate in the streets of the city,
Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion of the court,
stated the origin of statutory and legislative reservations
of this character enacted since the decision of Dartmouth
College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, construing corporate
charters as contracts between the public authorities and
the grantees, beyond legislative control and within the
protection of the contract-clause of the Federal Constitution. The learned Justice said (p. 20):
"It became obvious at once that many acts of incorporation which had been passed as laws of a public character,
partaking in no general sense of a bargain between the
States and the corporations which they created, but which
yet conferred private rights, were no longer subject to
amendment, alteration, or repeal, except by the consent
of the corporate body, and that the general control which
the legislatures creating such bodies had previously supposed they had the right to exercise, no longer existed.
It was, no doubt, with a view to suggest a method by which
the state legislatures could retain in a large measure
this important power, without violating the provision of
the Federal Constitution, that Mr. Justice Story, in his
concurring opinion in the Dartmouth College Case, suggested that when the legislature was enacting a charter for
a corporation, a provision in the statute reserving to the
legislature the right to amend or repeal it must be held to
be a part of the contract itself, and the subsequent exercise
of the right would be in accordance with the contract, and
could not, therefore, impair its obligation."
In view of that policy this court held that whatever
rights remained to its other property the authority to run
cars upon the streets of the City of Boston, being subject
to the reservation, terminated upon the repeal of the
ordinance.
If there is such right to repeal, the authorities are con-

OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
230 U. S. DAY,

MKcKENNA, HUGHES,

79

and PirxsY, JJ., dissenting.

clusive that it may be exercised so as to terminate the
rights of the company to further use the streets. In a
recent case, Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591, this court
approved and reaffirmed this principle. In that case The
Grand Rapids Hydraulic Company had been incorporated
by the legislature of Michigan and had constructed and
was then maintaining an elaborate water system. The
legislature repealed the charter, reservation to amend or
repeal having been made in the original act., In aid of the
contention that the repealing act was void under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, it was alleged that there were outstanding bonds and a mortgage
on the company's plant, including its franchise to own and
operate its system; also that, the city being a competitor
of the company, the city authorities had secured the
passage of the repealing statute by unfair means. This
court said (pp. 598 et seq.):
"The defendants now, on the ground that there are
limits even to the operation of a reserved power to repeal,
argue that we should consider these allegations. But we
do not inquire into the knowledge, negligence, methods or
motives of the legislature if, as in this ease, the repeal was
passed in due form. United States v. Des Moines Navigation & Railway Co., 142 U. S. 510, 544. The oiffl question
that we can consider is whether there is anything relevant
to the present case in the terms or effect of the repeal that
goes beyond the power that the charter expressly reserves.
By making a contract-or incurring a debt the
defendants, so far as they are concerned, could not get
rid of an infirmity inherent in the corporation. They
contracted subject, not paramount, to the proviso for
repeal, as is shown by a long line of cases. Greenwood v.
Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13. Bridge Co. v¢. United States,
105 U. S. 470. Chicago Life Insurance Co. v. Needles, 113
U. R. 574. Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States,
148 U; S. 313, 338, 340. New Orleans Waterworks Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
DAY, MCKENNA, HuGHES and PITNEY, J.J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

Louisiana,18,5 I. S. 336, 353, 354. Knoxville Water.Co. v.
Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 437, 438. Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473, 480. It would be a waste of words to try to
make clearer than it is on its face, the meaning and effect of
this reservation of the power to repeal.
The only question before us now is the
validity of the judgment ousting the defendants from
'assuming to act as a body corporate, And particularly
under the name and style of the Grand Rapids Hydraulic
Company.' This really is too plain to require the argument that we have spent upon it. We may add that it'is a
matter upon which the bondholders have nothing to say."
See also Hamilton Gas Light Co. v. Hamilton City, 146
U. S. 258.
It is said, however, and that seems to be the ground
upon which the decision of the court upon this point rests,
at last, that the reservation of the right to repeal does not
clearly appear in the charter of Owensboro, as it did in
the Massachusetts legislation considered in Greenwood v.
FreightCo., supra, and it is said that such right, when it is
claimed, must be clear and explicit. To my mind the
purpose of the Kentucky legislature was evidenced with
perfect clearness, for I think that the same law which gave
the city the right, which otherwise would have rested with
the legislature alone of exercising authority over the
streets, which in this case, it is held, authorized their use
for telephone, purposes, in unmistakable terms made
such authority subject to the clearly stated and definite
limitation named. Furthermore, the doctrine is well
settled that legislative grants of municipal authority shall
be construed most favorably to the public and against
persons claiming thereunder, a doctrine sanctioned by
decisions of this court. Moran v. Coimnissionersof Miami
County, 2 Black, 722; Citizens' Street Railway v. Detroit
Railway, 171 U. S. 48; Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City
Water Co., 177 U. S. 558. SureLy, if the intention of the

OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.

81

230 U. S. DAY, MCKENA, HUGHES and PITNHYJJ., dissenting..

Kentucky legislature to reserve in the municipality the
authority to repeal such grants as the one here involved is
not clearly manifested, at least there is reasonable room for
doubt, and such doubt must be resolved in favor of the
public. If the doubt be determined in favor of the company and a grant which is .not clearly in perpetuity is
the hands of the municheld to be such, the effect is to tiefrom
the use of property
ipality froqa obtaining revenue
held by it in trust for all its people.
Ttis also said.that the exercise of the reserved right to
repeal i, cases like this will have the effect to destroy
contrac rights, upon the strength of which large investmients may have been made,. ,But, this argument overlooks the proposition that, ifthe grant , was made subject
to the right t.o reyqke by subsequent aetin:of.the authority which: made the grant, then no ,cont iett eas entered
pof the. reserved
between, th, p4rties beyond t .he cntrq1
power of the municipality, foras r. Justice Miller said
in the Greenwood . Freight C,q, ase, uier such 'a, pro-.
vision ,. . .. rserving to tlhe legislature. the right- to
amend, or repeal it n)ust ,be, jheltobe,a part of th? conf the rightwould
tiract itself, and tl u
not,. thereand.,quldi
.onract,.
the
with
aceorda.nce
in
be
9, if ,ttij, l itation in factfore, impai its 9bAgatipn.'
exivted, ,the right: to r:epeal rs in!herent, in: the atlthority
which ima4e the -g t, and jh : grantqe is conotusiyely
presumed to be aware of this limitation, and to make his
in vestnoentso subjct toq the exercise pof .th? :reqrycd right.
,p Morepver, .f limited gran .s,
N Michigan,
(ader
dupra.
are , tOb co nstruid in. ,9l)9 plttie ,hu the control ,over

priss of. enoxmou , alue are gra tqd't, p!vate (,or atiops {ithout corpnsation for the.,use-of such -aluable
rights wJich belong to. hp nuicplity.,,Re et cases in,
atI e ojf such priyileges,
/
this court a sh~x: theg'et
and that investr, are found, yeho ',re. willig to pn. for
VOL.

('CXXX--

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
DAY, MCKENNA, HUGHES and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

230 U. S.

the privilege of using the public streets for these purposes.
A single case is cited in the opinion of the court to sustain the conclusion reached upon this branch of the case,
and that is Hudson Telephone Company v. Jersey City, 49
N. J. L. 303. An examination of that case shows that it
did not involve the question now under consideration.
There the telephone company was organized as such under
the prevailing statutes of the State and had obtained
on certain conditions the permission of the municipality
to use 'the streets in accordance with a provision in the
statute that the designation of the streets to be used and
manner of placing poles should first be secured. An ordinance was passed, revoking the permission, although
the company had complied with the conditions, and the
court held that the revoking ordinance was invalid. The
court noticed the power reserved in the corporation act to
repeal, suspend and alter charters, and the power -of the
city council to repeal ordinances. The former was held to
run to the legislature solely, and it was said that there
was no provision in the act authorizing the municipality
to revoke its permission. Of the latter the court said that
the power to repeal was a general power arising from the
power to pass ordinances and existed withou t the express
charter powers, and that such general power would not
sustain the rescission of an act authorized by other legislation.
A somewhat diligent search has failed to discover cases
exactly in point construing a reservation of the character
herein involved. The case of Lake Roland Elevated Railway
Co. v. Mayor &C. of Baltimore, 77 Maryland, 352, followed
and approved in United Railways v. Hayes, 92 Maryland,
490, is, however, closely analogous. In that case the city
granted a franchise to the railway company permitting it to
lay tracks in the streets of the city and also to erect an elevated railway in a certain street. A statute passed to con-

OWENSBORO P. CUMBERLAND TELEPIONE CO.
230 U. S. DAY,

MCKENNA, HULHES

83

and PITNEY, JJ., dissentir~g.

firm the action of the city with respect to that part of the
ordinance granting a franchise which related to the elevated
railway contained a, reservation to the city of "the samxe
power and control hereafter in reference to the enforcement,
amendment or repeal of said ordinance [granting the-franchise] as it has or would have in respect to any ordinance
This reservation was
passed under its general powers."
held to authorize the repeal of the grant in question. The.
case upon this point meets the argument made in the opinion in this case that the right to amend, alter or repeal
would have existed without the statute and cannot be held
to cover the grant of franchise privileges to use the streets.
Undoubtedly this right of repeal would have existed, and
hence its insertion" was unnecessary unless it was to have
some further purpose than that the law already gave, the
general power of a municipality to repeal ordinances of a
legislative character. We think the intention in this
case was the saine as in the Maryland case, to preserve in
the municipality authority over the streets in the interests
of the public.
In my view the case in its present attitude comes to
this: The permission to place poles and string wires in the
City of Owensboro was granted under a charter which
expressly reserved the right to repeal by subsequent act of
the municipal legislature. In the face of this authority and
presumably with knowledge of it, the company has entered
upon the streets and made use of them for the purposes
intended. Holding its grant subject to this superior right
in the city to end it, I think the subsequent repealing
ordinance was within the power of the municipality.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concur in this dissent.

and

