MITCHELL COAL CO. z. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 1. S.

247

Sylahs.

rates "-that is, the published rates--as unlawful for the
purpose of establishing the injuria, but insists that they
must be treated as lawful when we come to ascertain the
damnum.
The result is, the legal paradox: Injuria sine damno.
The plaintiff is wronged, but not harmed; it may sue, but
may not-recover.
If the rate differential is not a proper element of damages in actions brought in the courts, I suppose it will not
be proper for the Commission to adhere to it. Yet the
sheer impossibility of- adopting any other measure of damages, in the multitude of reparation cases that the Commission has to deal with, is perfectly obvious.
The result, upon the whole, is a virtual denial of private
remedy for the most common and harmful of those discriminations that the Interstate Commerce Act was designed to prevent and to redress.

MITCHELL COAL AND COKE COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 674.

Submitted 'Decermber 4,1912.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. International (CoalCo., ante, p. 184, fol-

lowed to effect that the courts have jurisdiction of a case brought by
a shipper against a carrier for the amount of damages actually sustained by him for charging hin the full tariff when it was carrying
the same goods the same distance fo' other shippers at lower rates
but that such, damages must be sustained by proof as to the amount
thereof.
The courts have not juiisdiction of a suit brought by a shipper against
a carrier for damages by reason of paying other shippers of similar

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of 'the Court.

230 U. S.

goods an unreasonable amount for services in connection with such
transportation, unless and until there has been a finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission that the payments so made to the
other shippers were unreasonably large.
A carrier has the right under the Act to Regulate Cbmmeree to pay
shippers a reasonable allowance for services in connection with
transportation of goods shipped by them, and the allowance paid
must be treated by the courts as prima facie reasonable until the
Interstate Commerce Commission has determined otherwise.
When the case is here on' a question of jurisdiction only, this court
cannot pass upon questions which go to the mcrits.
There is a necessity, which is recognized by the Act to Regulate Commeree, of having questions as to reasonableness of rates and allowances settled by a single tribunal in order to avoid the conflicting decisions which would result if several different tribunals could pass
upon the same question; and the act itseif has designated the Interstate Commerce Commission as that tribunal.
Allowances for lateral hauling may be lawfully paid, as they become
unlawful only when unreasonable; whether unreasonable either past,
or future is a rate-making question over which the courts have no
jurisdiction, even ifthe partics atteml)t to give it by consent.
This action, having been commenced without any. application having
been made to the Interstate Commerce Commission to declare unreasonable the allowances paid by the carrier for lateral hauling, the
case rnust be remanded for dismissal, but the dismissal is stayed to
give plaintiff an opportunity to make such application with the right
to the carrier to be heard on the defense of limitations as well as other
dcfenscs.
192 Fed. Rep. 475, affirmed in part and reversed inpart.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George S. Graham for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Francis I. Gowen for de-

fondant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
On November 20, 1905, the Mitchell Coal and Coke
Company brought suit in the Cireuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

the Pennsylvania Railroad for damages alleged to have
"beenoccasioned by the paymenit of rebates to the Altoona,
Glen White, Millwood, Latrobe and Bolivar Companies.
The complaint alleged that between April 1, 1897, and
May 1, 1901, the plaintiff, in competitionwith these companies, made shipments of coal and coke over the Pennsylvania road from the Clearfield District to the same general markets in other States and that, during all that time,
the carrier paid rebates to these companies, pretending
that the money given them was an allowance for transportation services rendered by them, in hauling cars ever
spur tracks between their mines and the railroad station.
The parties stipulated that the case should be submitted to a Referee, who should have the powers of a
special master. His findings were in favor of the plaintiff.
His report, modified as to the measure of damages, was
confirmed (181 Fed. Rep. 403), but before judgment was
entered thereon the carrier moved to dismiss the case
because the court, as a Federal court, had no jurisdiction
of the cause of action until after the Interstate Commerce
Commission had passed upon the legality of the allowances and the reasonableness of the amount paid to shippers for hauling cars between their mines and the station.
The motion was granted (183 Fed. Rep. 908), and the
case was taken by writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which dismissed the case (192 Fed. Rep. 475)
upon the ground that the question could only be reviewed
by the Supreme Court of the United States. A writ of
certiorari was denied (223 U. S. 733), and the plaintiff
thereupon brought the case here by direct writ of error,
the judge certifying the following as the jurisdictional
question:
"Has the Circuit Court of the United States, in advance
of any application to the Interstate Commerce Commission and action thereon by that body, jurisdiction to entertain an action of trespass brought by a shipper of coal

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 V. S.

and coke to recover damages because of alleged unlawful
preferential rates accorded to other and competing shippers of coal and coke, when such alleged preferential rates
are claimed to have resulted from payments made to such
other shippers, which payments the plaintiff claimed were
rebates from the published and filed freight rate, and the
defendant claimed were made as compensation for services rendered by such shippers or for other accounts which
justified it in making the same, and when it further appeared that such payments had been made pursuant to a
practice of long standing, and that a number of shippers
other than the plaintiff were interested in the question of
the lawfulness thereof."
1. The plaintiff's cause of action for damages occasioned
by the payment of illegal or unreasonable allowances was
one which, under §§ 8 and 9 of the Commerce Act (24
Stat. 382), could only be brought in a District or Circuit
Court of the United States. The motion to dismiss challenged the jurisdiction of the court, as a Federal court, and
its power "primarily to hear complaints concerning wrongs
of the character of the one here complained of." Texas
&c. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Co., 204 U. S. 426, 442; B. & 0. R.
R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S.481, 495; Robinson v.
B. & 0., 222 U. S. 506. The order of dismissal was
founded on the denial of jurisdiction, and this court has
power to review that ruling. Ira M. Hedges, 218 U. S.
264, 270; The Steamship Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130. The
case differs from Darnell v. Ilinois R. R., 225 U. S. 243.
There the Commission had found that the rate was unreasonable. The demurrer, based on the failure to allege
that a reparation order had been made in favor of the
plaintiff, did not attack the jurisdiction of the court, as
a Federal court, since the cause of action sought to be enforced was one which, if properly brought could, under
the act of June 18, 1910 (36 Stat. 539, 554, c. 309), have
been maintained either in a state or Federal court.

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

251

Opinion of the Court.

2. In the present case the motion to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction was made at the end of the trial and was
based, not upon the pleadings, but upon the evidence. It
becomes necessary, therefore, to make a statement of the
facts material to that issue :-The plaintiff, the Mitchell
Coal and Coke Company, owned six coal mines in the
Clearfield District, and between 1897 and May 1, 1901,
shipped its products over the Pennsylvania Railroad in
state and interstate commerce. During that time the
provisions of the Commerce Act were constantly violated
and there were many instances in which the carrier gave
secret rates to shippers from whom it collected the full
tariff and subsequently refunded the difference between
the legal and the illegal rate. Many such rebates were
paid to-the plaintiff, the Mitchell Company, which in this
case claimed the right to recover, as damages, the difference between these rebates paid to it and what it
claimed were the additional rebates paid to the Altoona
and other companies mentioned in the declaration. The
Referee found that, for a part of the time, 70 per cent. of
plaintiff's shipments had been made at secret rates, and
held, citing Pa. R. R. v. InternationalCo., 173 Fed. Rep.
1, 9, that, as to this tonnage, the plaintiff was as much a
violator of the statute as was the carrier and that no
cause of action arising out of this illegal contract would be
enforced by the courts. He therefore limited the inquiry
to a consideration of the damages in respect to that part
of the plaintiff's shipments on which no rebates had been
paid.
From the Referee's report, and the testimony retiur'ed
therewith, it appears that Clearfield District is the name
given to a large coal field reached by the lines of the
Pennsylvania Railroad. In this district there were many
inines-some near the railroad and others at cor 3iderable
distances therefrom, but all reached by lateral lines or
spur tracks, over which cars Y4'ere carried to and from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

mines. This Clearfield District was treated as a single
shipping station, and the rates from all points therein were
the same where coal was transported to the same point
beyond the State. The published tariff named the rate
from station to destination, but it was uniformly construed
to include the haul from the mine. The published rate
was so applied on all shipments made by the plaintiff as
well as on those made by the Altoona and other companies named in the complaint.
It further appeared that to these companies the carrier
paid what is called a trackage or lateral allowance, claiming that it was compensation allowed them for hauling cars
from their mines to the station. The defendant's contention that there was no concealment of these payments
is controverted by the plaintiff, which insists that it had
no knowledge of such payments until 1898, when its
officers were informed that the railway was paying some
companies 10 cents a ton for such services. The Mitchell
Company, the plain iff, thereupon bought an engine to be
used for that purpose at its Gallitzin mine and with this
engine hauled cars, loaded and empty, between that mine
and the station. For this work it demanded that the,
defendant should pay the same lateral allowance of 10
cents a ton that the railroad paid other, companies for
similar services. The carrier contended that it was itself
prepared to do the switching at the GalliLzin mine, though,
on account of dissimilarity of conditions, it could not
economically do so at the Altoona and other mines referred
to in the complaint. It therefore declined to pay a lateral
allowance to the plaintiff, but offered to continue to treat
this haul as included in the rate and to do that work without extra charge to the Mitchell Company. The plaintiff
then offered to do the hauling for less than 10 cents, the
exact amount not appearing. The proposition having
been declined in 1899, t-e plaintiff, on November 20, 1905,
brought this suit, of'ering evidence to show that in some

MITCHELL COAL CO. '. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

cases the allowance was as high as -I cents a ton instead
of 10 cents, as it had previously understood.
In addition to the Gallitzin mine, the plaintiff owned
five others in the Clearfield District. They wexre located
at points from 1,100 to 3,000 feet from the railroad and
were reached by spur tracks belonging to the plaintiff,
over which cars were hauled by the 1ocomotives belonging
to the Pennsylvania Railroad. For this service the carrier
made no extra charge, treating it as included in the rate,
though the tariff published the rate as from station- to
destination.
The mines of the Altoona, Glen White and 1[illwoodCompanies were located in the Clearfield District, while
those of the Latrobe and Bolivar Companies were near
by inthe Latrobe District,
The Millwood was reached by a narrow gauge track,
over which cars were hauled by that coal company's
narrow gauge engines. For doing that work it was paid
a lateral allowance of 15 cents a ton until April, 1899, and
after that date 10 cents a ton.
The Glen White mine was about thitee miles from the
main road and was reached oby a spur having light rails,
steep grades and sharp curves, over which the evidence
tended to show that the engines of the railroad could not
be safely or economically operated. This company transported the coal cars with its own engine and for doing
that work the defendant paid it a lateral allowance of 15
cents a ton. On December 28, 1901 (subsequent to the
transactions involved in this litigation), the carrier gave
notice that it would discontinue lateral allowances on coke,
but would Allow 15 cents per ton on coal.
The Altoona mine was reached by a spur track, over
which, with its own engines, the Altoona Company hauled
cars and 'waspaid a lateral allowance of 13 cents on coal
and 10 cents on coke to points on the Hollidaysburg
Branch, and 18 cents on coal and 20 cents on coke tQ

OCTOBE'R TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,.

230 U. S.

points east of Altoona. On December 28, 1901, this lateral
allowance on cdal was discontinued and that on coke reduced to 12 cents a ton. On January 1, 1902, all lateral
allowances were discontinued.
Inasmuch as the payments to the Altoona were larger
than those to any other coal company, the plaintiff claimed
that they were the legal measure by which damages were
to be assessed. The evidence was therefore-specially directed to the situation at this mine, which was a little
over three miles in-an air line from the railroad and eight
hundred feet above the station level. The grade was,
not only very steep, but it was necessary to make use of
three switchbacks in order to reach the elevation of the
mine. The line was thus lengthened so as to be about 5
miles in length. The curves on this track were very sharp;
the rails were light, and only specially constructed engines
could be used. There was evidence that before the
Pennsylvania's locomotives could have been operated
over this spur it would have been necessary to put in
heavy rails, strengthen theculverts and realign the track.
Owing to the steep grade only four cars could be hauled at
a time, and it required from three to six times as long to do
the same amount of transportation work as at the Gallitzin mine.
3. The plaintiff insists that these facts demonstrate
that the payments to the Altoona and other companies
were not measured by the value of the track or locomotive,
or by the cost of the service rendered, but were unreasonable in amount, were arbitrarily fixed, lowered or withdrawn and constituted a mere cover for rebating. On the
other hand, the defendant insisted that, though bound to
haul the cars to and from the mines, it could not economically do the work on account of the physical conditions at
the Altoona, Millwood and (Glen White mines and that
it, tlerefore, employed those companies to perform that
transportation service, paying them therefor an allowance

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court.

which is prima facie reasonable and must be so treated
by the courts -until the Commission has determined that it
was excessive or constituted an unjust discrimination.
On this hearing, involving a matter of jurisdiction, we
cannot pass upon these questions which go to the merits of
the controversy
But these claims of the parties emphasize the fact that there are two classes of acts which
may form the basis of a suit for damages. In one the
legal quality of the practice complaihed of may not be
definitely fixed by the statute so that an allowance, otherwise permissible, is lawful or unlawful, according as it is
reasonable or unreasonable. But to determine that question involves a consideration and comparison of many
and various facts and calls for the exercise of the discretion
of the rate-regulating tribunal. The courts have not been
given jurisdiction to fix rates or practices in direct proceedings, nor can they do so collaterally during the progress of a lawsuit when the action is based on the claim
that unreasonable allowances have been paid. If the decision of such questions, was cpmmitted to different courts
with different juries the results would not only vary in degree, but might often be opposite in character-to the destruction of the uniformity in rate and practice which was
the cardinal object of the statute.
4. The necessity under the statute of having such
questions settled by a single tribunal in order to secure
singleness of practice and uniformity of rate has been
pointed out and settled in the Abilene, Pitcairn and
Robinson Cases and is referred to here because this record
and that in pennsylvania R. R. v. InternationalCo., ante,
p. 184, just de ided, furnisha strildng illustration of the results which "uld follow if the reasonableness of an allowance could be decided by different tribunals. Both cases
involve the payment of 18 cents a ton to the Altoona Company during the same period and for identically the same
reasons, In.both the plaintiff insisted that the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230, U. S.

was a rebate, and the carrier that it was compensation
for services rendered. In the InternationalCase the judge
treated the Altoona allowance as lawful and reasonable.
In this case the Referee found that it was a rebate, while
the trial judge, in passinf; on exceptions to the report,
held that it was a question of fact ab6ut which the evidence was conflicting and thereupon apl~roved the Refer-.
ee's report. Treating it as a question of fact, there may
have been sufficient testimony to sustain the finding in
both instances, although the conclusion was diametrically
opposite. And, applying 'Lhe rule that appellate courts
will not disturb findings of fact where the evidence is
conflicting, contradictory judgments might have been
affirmed and one plai ' ff could have been awarded
damages on the theory t0 at the Altoona allowance was
unlawful and the other bc.x !muleted in cost because the
Altoona allowance was 'rT," 4J This and like considerations
compelled the holding th
as the courts have no primary
jurisdiction to fix ratey, ieither can they do so at the
suit of a single plaintiff who. claims to have been damaged
because an allowance paC its competitors was unreasonable in amount.
It is argued that this c. nclusion ignores §§ 9 and 22,
which give the shipper
option of suing in the courts
or applying to the Comaission. The same argument
was made and answered Lxcthe Abilene Case by showing
that to permit suits based on the charge that a particular
practice was unreasona.hl -., without previous action by
the Commission, would Yepeal the many provisions of the
statute requiriug uniforiniy and equality. For, manifestly, such uniformity wuod equality cannot be secured by
separate suits before separate tribunals involving the
reasonableness of a rate or practice. The evidence might
vary and, of course, the verdicts would yary, with the
result that one shipper would succeed before one jury
and another fail before a different jury, where the reason-

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

ableness of the same practice was involved. Manifestly,
different verdicts Would occasion inequality between the
two shippers and it is equally manifest that if the Commission had made one order of which both could avail
themselves, there would have been one finding, of, which
one, two or a score of shippers could equally avail themselves. The claim that this conclusion nullifies "§9 is
concretely answered by. the fact that the court has just
decided to the contrary in Pennsylvania R. R. v. International Coal Company. There- the carrier insisted that
a suit for damages, occasioned by rebating, could not be
maintained without preliminary action by the Commission. This contention was overruled, and it was held
that, for doing an act prohibited by the statute, the inj ured party might sue the carrier without previous action
by the Commission, because the courts could apply the
law prohibiting a departure from the tariff to the facts
of the case. But where the suit is based upon unreasonable charges or unreasonable practices there is no law
fixing what is unreasonable and therefore prohibited.
In such cases the whole scope of the statute shows that
it was intended that the Commission and not the courts
should pass upon that administrative question. When
such order is made it is as though the law for that particular practice had been fixed, and the courts could then
apply that order, not to one case, but to every case,thereby giving every shipper equal rights and preservinig
uniformity of practice. 4ection 9 gives the plaintiff th6
option of going before the Commission or the courts for
damages occasioned by a, violation of the statute. But
since the Commission is charged with the duty of determining whether the practice was so unreasonable as
to be a violation of the law, the plaintiff must, ap a condition to his right to sueceed, produce an order from the
Commission that the practice or the rate was thus unreasoiiabl taid therefore illegal and prohibited,
vol,. ('CXXX--17

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

5. It is argued that under the Abilene, Robinson and
Pitcairn Cases this may be true as to existing rates in
which the public have an interest, but it is urged that
a claim based upon the unreasonableness of past rates
and discontinued practices raises a judicial question,
of Which the courts and not the Commission have jurisdiction.
There are several answers, to this proposition. In the
first place, the plaintiff cannot claim under the act and
against it. To say the least, it is extremely doubtful
whether, at common law, one shipper had a cause of
action because the carrier paid another shipper more
than the market value of transportation services rendered
to the carrier. I. C. C. v. B. & 0. R. R., 145 U. S. 263,
275. But if any such- right existed it was abrogated or
forbidden by the Commerce Act, and one was given which,
as a condition of the right to recover, required a finding
by the Commission that the allowance was unreasonable:
and operated as an unjust discrimination or as an undue
preference. Texas &c. Ry. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S.
449; Texas &c. Ry. v. Abilene Co. 204, U. S. 426, 444;
Southern Ry. v. Tift, 206 U. S. 428, 437; United States v.
Pacific & Arctic R. R., 228 U. S. 87. Such orders, so far as
they are administrative are conclusive, whether they relate
to past or present rates, and can be given general and uniform operation, since all shippers, who have been or may
be affected by the rate, can take advantage of the ruling
and avail themselves of the reparation order. They are
quasi-judicial and only prima facie correct in so far as
they determine the fact and amount of damage--as to
which, since it involves the payment of money and taldng
of property, the carrier is by § 16 of the act given its day
in court and the right to a judicial hearing (March 2,
1889, 25 Stat. 855, 859, c. 382).
In considering the administrative questions as to
reasonableness, the elements of the problem are the

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R, CO.
230 U. S.

259

Opinion of the Court.

same, whether they involve the validity of obsolete
allowances, discarded tariffs, or current rates and practices.
In both classes of cases there is a call for the exercise of
the rate-regulating discretion and the same necessity for
having the matter settled by a single tribunal. For if
at the suit of one shipper, a court could hold a past rate
or allowance to have been unreasonable and award damages accordingly, it is manifest that such shipper would
secure a belated but undue preference over others who
had not sued and could not avail themselves of the verdict.
But more than this-to permit separate suits and separate
findings would not only destroy the equality which the
statute intended should be permament, even after the
rates had been changed, but it would bring about direct
conflict in the administration of the law. Under the statute
the carrier has the primary right to fix rates, and so long as
they are acquiesced in by the Commission the carrier and
shippers are alike bound to treat them as lawful. After
the rate had been abandoned the carrier is still obliged
to treat it as having been lawful, and cannot refund what
had been collected under it until the Commission determines that what was apparently reasonable had in fact
-been unreasonable. But such a determination cannot be
made by the courts, for they would not only have first
to exercise an administrative function and make a rate
by which to measure the reasonableness of the charge
collected, but they would have to go further and treat
as unreasonable a rate, past or present, which the statute
had declared should be deemed lawful until it had been
held to be otherwise by the Commission.
• As to past and present practices for allowances, the
Commission has the same power and there is the same
necessity to take preliminary action. This was recognized in Texas &c. Ry. v. Abilene Co., 204 U. S. 426, where,
after considering §§ 8 and 22, relating to jurisdiction and
the'statutory and common law remedy, it was said that

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

although a railroad might alter its rates voluntarily or in
obedience to an order of the Commission, yet it can
"not be doubted that the power of the Commission would
nevertheless extend to hearing legal complaints of and
awarding reparation to individuals for wrongs unlawfully
suffered from the application of the unreasonable schedule
during the period when such schedule was in force."
A contrary ruling would upset a useful, time-saving,
economical and established practice. For in accordance
with this construction of the act the Commission, after,
the abandonment of a rate, has repeatedly received and
heard complaints and,' upon finding that it had been unireasonable, has granted, reparation accordingly. See
Arkansas Fuel Co. v. C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 16 I. C. C.
95, 98; Allen & Co. v. C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 16 I. C.
C. 293, 295.
The plaintiff insists, however, that all these reasons are
answered by the decision in Wight v. United States, 167
U. S. 512, where the court, without preliminary action by
the Commission, held that an allowance paid a consignee
for hauling his freight in wagons from depot to warehouse
was a rebate and thereupon inflicted the statutory punishment.
But that case did not involve any question of reasonableness of rate or allowance. Nor was the court-there
called on to indirectly exercise rate-regulating power,
but only to pass upon the-question of fact as to whether,
as charged in the indictment, the defendant had paid a
secret rebate to a favored consignee.
It appeared that
the carrier's published rate of 15 cents included the haul
from Cincinnati to the yard in Pittsburg. Neither by its
terms, nor by general practice, did that rate include
delivery at warehouses in the city and distant from the
railroad tracks. Nbt having undertaken to furnish free
cartage, it was unlawful for the carrier to perform that
service for one patron and not for all others. Paying the

MIT(TIELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. i. I
230 U. S.

CO.
,

261

Opi'nion of the Court.

favored consignee for rendering a service the carrier was
not bound to furnish, was a gift-a rebate-a thing ipso
facto illegal and prohibited by the statute and for which the
guilty carrier was subject to criminal indictment, and for
which damages could have been awarded on the civil
side of the court. It was therefore not necessary to have a
preliminary ruling by the Commission because the statute
itself prohibited the payment of rebates and the courts
could apply the law accordingly.
6. The plaintiff thereupon insists that even on this view
of the case the judgment should be reversed, claiming
that the payments here were of that prohibited character,
so that even if the allowance was reasonable in amount,
its payment was nevertheless unlawful because (a) given
for a service not included in the rate and (b) not mentioned
in the tariff.
Under the Elkins Act of February 19, 1903, 32 Stat. 847,
c. 708 (United States v. Chicago & A. Ry., 148 Fed. Rep.
646; S. C., 156 Fed. Rep. 558, affirmed by a divided court,
212 U. S. 563), and under the Hepburn Act of June 29,
1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591 (Victor Co. v. Atchison Ry., 14
I. C. C. 120) it has been held that the carrier must give
notice in the tariff of free cartage, lighterage, ferriage, or
any other accessorial service that will be furnished, as
well as of any allowance that will be made to shippers
who furnish transportation facilities or service. But the
present case is not to be governed by those statutes, but
by the law of force between 1897 and 1901, when the
transactions complained of took place. At that time the
Commerce Act 1 required the carrier to give notice of
Sme. 6. . .
The schedules printed as aforesaid by any such
common carrier shall plainly state the places upon its railroad between
which property and passengers will be carried, and shall contain the
classification of freight in force . . . , and shall also state separately the terminal charges and any rules or regulations which in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

every charge it would make against the shipper. But the
statute was not construed to compel the railroad to publish
what free cartage or accessorial service it would furnish
(Detroit v. United States, 167 U. S. 646), nor what sums it
would pay shippers for transportation service rendered by
them to the carrier. Failure to publish these items could,
however, easily lead to unjust discrimination, and the
court, in the case last cited, held that the Commission
might, by a general order, require such matters to be published in the rate sheet. We are not cited to any such order
for the period now inder investigation, and, so far as we
can discover, by the general and public custom of all carriers, acquiesced in by the Commission, the tariffs at that
time uniformly omitted any statement of allowances that
would be paid to the shipper for the use of private cars,
or private tracks, or for transportation service in switching, hauling, lightering or other work, included in the
rate, but actually performed by the shipper.
But although the statute then of force was not construed to require the publication of allOwances, their payanywise change, affect, or determine any part or the aggregate of such
aforesaid rates and fares and charges. .
And when any such common carrier shall have established and
published its rates, fares, and charges in compliance with the provisions
of this section, it shall be unlawful for such common carrier to charge,
demand, collect, or receive from any person or persons a greater or less
compensation for the transportation of passengers or property, or for
any services in connection therewith, than is specified in such published
schedule of rates, fares, and charges as may at the time be in force.
Every common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall file
with the Commission hereinafter provided for copies of its schedules of
rates, fares, and charges which have been established and published
in compliance with the requirements of this section, and shall promptly
notify said Commission of all changes made in the same. Every such
common carrier shall also file with said Commission copies of all con.iacta, agreements, or arrangements with other common carriers in
relation to any traffic affected by the provisions of this act to which
it may be a party." (Act of February 4, 1887, 24 Stat. 379, 380, 381.)

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R, R. CO.
230 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

ment was lawful only when supported by a consideration.
To pay shippers for doing their own work would have
been a mere gratuity, and if here the carrier was not bound
to haul from the mine it had no more right to pay these
companies for bringing their coal over the spur track to the
junction than it would have had to pay a merchant for
hauling his goods in a wagon to the railroad depot. The
plaintiff insists that such is the case here, and that, as the
tariff named the rate from the station, it could not lawfully include the haul from the mine, and consequently
paying the shippers for doing their own hauling was a
mere rebate.
Such undoubtedly it would have been if naming the
rate from station to destination meant that the haul had
to begin at the depot building. But neither the statute
nor the tariff defines what are station limits, nor do they
fix the exact point from which the transportation must
begin, nor the territory within which the delivery must
be made. These limits necessarily vary with the size
of the communities, the extent of the yards, the practice
of the carrier and the bounds within which it uniformly
receives and delivers freight. This is particularly true
in a case like the present, where the Clearfield District
was treated as a single shipping point, and where the rate,
though named and published as from the station, was
universally applied from the mines of the Mitchell Company as well as the other companies named in the
declaration and all others located in the Clearfield District.
Inasmuch as this rate included the haul the Railroad
was bound to transport the coal from the mouth of the
mines, and could use its own engines for that purpose
or it could employ the Coal Companies to render that
service, paying them proper compensation therefor. In
case any question arose as to the reasonableness of the
pructice, the limits within which the station rates should

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

apply, or the reasonablness of the allowance paid those
shippers who supplied motive power, the Commission
alone could aft. For the courts are no more authorized
to determine the reasonableness of an allowance for a
haul over a spur track, between mine and station, than
they are to pass upon the reasonableness of a rate for a
haul, over a trunk line, between station and station. What
is or was a proper allowance is not a matter of law until
after it has been fixed by the rate-regulating body. The
courts can then apply that law, and, measuring what has
been charged by what the Commission declares should
have been charged, can award damages to the extent of
the injuries occasioned by the payment of the allowance
found to have'been unreasonable and unlawful.
That station rates may be applied from mill or mine
reached by spur tracks is recognized by the ruling of the
Commission in the Tap Line Cases, 23 I. C. C. 277, where,
in dealing with the practice of paying an allowance for
hauling lumber from sawmills, the Commission said
(p. 293) :
"In all cases it is apparently the practice of the trunk
lines, where no allowance is made, to set the empty car
at the mill and to receive the loaded car at the same
point. Indeed, they do this in many cases even when
an allowance is made to the tap line. But whenever this
service is performed by the trunk line, it is included in
the lumber rate and is done without additional charge.
In some instances the switch or spur track connecting the
mill with the trunk line is as much as three miles long. In
other words, by their common practice the public carriers
interpret the lumber rate as applying from mills in this
territory apparently as far as three miles from their own
lines. So far as the -manufactured lumber is concerned,
it may therefore be said that where a mill has a physical
connection with a trunk line and is not more than three
miles distant the transportation offered by the trunk line

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA, R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

265

Opinion of the Court.

commences at the mill. If, therefore, a lunber company,
having a mill within that distance of a trunk line, undertakes, by arrangement with the trunk line, to use its own
power to set the empty car at the mill and to deliver it
when loaded to the trunk line it is doing for itself what
the trunk line, under its tariffs, offers to do under the
rate. In such a case the lumber company may therefore
fairly be said to furnish a facility of transportation for
which it may reasonably be compensated under section 15
whether its tap line is incorporated or unincorporated.
In other words, the lumber company thus does for itself
what the trunk line does with its own power at other
mills without additional charge and what it must therefore do for the particular lumber company without
additional charge. Under such circumstances we think
the lumber company, under section 15, may have reasonable compensation when it relieves the trunk lind of the
duty. But an allowance under such circumstances is
lawful only when the trunk line prefers, for reasons of
its own and without discrimination, to have the lumber
company perform the service. It is not lawful when
the lumber company refuses to permit the trunk line to
do the work." 23 I. C. C. Rep. 277.
In view of this ruling it is apparent that lateral allowances might have been lawfully paid. They became unlawful only when unreasonable. Whether they were so or not
was a rate-making question as to which parties were directly at issue, and which the courts had no jurisdiction
to determine so far as it concerned the allowances to the
Altoona, Millwood and Glen White mines. Having no
jurisdiction, the parties could not by consent give it to
the court, to the judge, nor to the Referee. And if, as
claimed, the stipulation to submit the case to the Referee
estops the defendant from insisting on the plea of th6
statute of limitations, that, with all other relevant issues,
can then be determined, if the Commission decides that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the allowance was unlawful, and the carrier has no other
defense.
7. But the situation of the Bolivar and Latrobe Companies was very different from that at the Altoona,
Glen White and Millwood mines, and a different conclusion must, therefore, follow. The Latrobe and Bolivar
Companies' mines were located in the Latrobe District,
where the rates to eastern points were about 20 cents
higher than from the Clearfield District, except that for
a part of the time they were the same, though the shipments were then small by comparison with those from
the Clearfield District. During that period the plaintiff
shipped in competition with the Latrobe and Bolivar
Companies. These companies owned no engines, and
they hauled no cars between mine and station. That
work was included in the rate, and the Pennsylvania did
the hauling with its own locomotives and crews. It therefore owed ndthing to the Latrobe and Bolivar Companies
fbr the service which the carrier itself performed, and
the so-called allowance, regardless of the amount, was
a mere gift-airebate, absolutely forbidden by the statute
and ipso facto illegal. Being an act prohibited by law,
it was not, necessary to have any preliminary decision
to that effect by the Commission, but the courts could,
as in any other case, apply the law to the facts proven
and award damages to the person injured. The decision
just rendered in InternationalCoal Company v. Pennsylvania Railroad makes it unnecessary further to discuss
this branch of the case. For the court undoubtedly had
jurisdiction to proceed with this branch of the case.
The judgment, therefore, must be reversed in so far
as the action is based upon payments to the Latrobe
and Bolivar Companies, and affirmed in so far as based
upon payments to the Altoona, Glen White and Millwood Companies.' But owing to the peculiar facts of
this case, the unsettled state of the law at the time the

MITCHLL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

267

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

suit was begun and the failure of the defendant to make
the jurisdictional point in limine so that the plaintiff
could then have presented its claim to the Conmnission
and obtained an order as to the reasonableness of the
practice or allowance,-direction is given that the dismissal be stayed so as to give the plaintiff a reasonable
opportunity within which to apply to the Commission
for a ruling as to the reasonableness of the practice and.
the allowance involved; and, if in favor of the plaintiff,
with the right to proceed with the trial of the cause in
the District Court, in which the defendant shall have the
right to be heard on its plea of the statute of limitations as
of the time the suit was filed and any other defense which
it may have.
Affirmed and modified in part, and in part reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, dissenting in this case and also
in Morrisdale Coal Company v. Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, post, p. 304.
Since the result reached by the court in these cases has
the effect of virtually eliminating the option conferred by
§ 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act upon shippers aggrieved by unjust discriminations practiced by common
carriers in violation of §§ 2 and 3-the option to "either
make complaint to the Commission" or to "bring suit
for the recovery of the damages "-and of conferring upon
the carrier, in some cases at least, the choice of two lines
of procedure, by selecting the character of the defense to
be interposed; and since in this and in other respects aggrieved shippers are to be deprived, in very large measure,
of the right of redress by private action at law conferred
by §§ 8 and 9 for violations of §§ 2 and 3, I deem it my
duty to express, somewhat at length, the grounds of my
dissent.
The case of the Mitchell Coal and Coke Company (No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

674) presents the question whether an action for a violation of § 2 of the Act, based upon the ground of a discrimination accomplished by means of secret rebates to competitors of the plaintiff, where the defense is that the
rebates were paid (under the name of "trackage or lateral
allowances"), as compensation for services rendered by
the shipper in aid of the carrier, can be maintained without a prior application to the Interstate Commerce Commission and a determination by that body as to whether
the alleged "trackage or lateral allowances" were reasonable and proper. This case arose in the years 1897 to
1901. The action was commenced in 1905.
The case of the Morrisdale Coal Company (No. 207)
raises the question whether an action can be maintained
for a violation of § 3 of the Act in respect of unfair discrimination in car distribution, without previous'action by the
Commission upon the question of the reasonableness of
the treatment accorded by the carrier to the complaining
shipper, or the propriety of the method of car distribution
that was pursued. The cause of action accrued during the
years 1902 to 1905, inclusive. Suit was commenced in
1908.
These questions are answered in the negative, upon the
authority of Texas & PacificRy. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 426; Balt. & Ohio R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co.,
215 U. S. 481, 495; and Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. Co.,
222 U. S. 506. I do not at all question the authority of
these cases, or the propriety of the groufids upon which
they were decided. But it seems to me that the Pitcairn
Case, as well as the case of Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, has no direct bearing upoin the questions now presented; and that the authority of the Abilene Cotton Oil Co. Case and the case of
Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. Co., and the reasoning of the
court therein, are directly opposed to the result reached
in the present cases.

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. 1. R CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEYI

269

J., dissenting.

The Abilene Case held that a carrier who observed the
established and published schedules of rates without preference or discrimination could not be held liable to an
action at law to recover for alleged excessive charges
when the freights charged were those prescribed by the
schedule; and that although § 22 of the Act declared that
"nothing in this act contained shall in any way abridge
or alter the remedies now existing at common law or by
statute, but the provisions of this act are in addition to
such remedies," this saving clause must necessarily be
limited so as to exclude an action based upon common-law
principles, when such action would run counter to the very
means prescribed by § 6 of the same Act for producing
uniformity and preventing discriminations.
And in the Robinson Case it was held, upon like reasoning, that a differential in rate between coal loaded
into cars from wagons and coal loaded from a tipple,
embodied in the filed and published schedules, could not be
deemed unjustly disoriminatory in an action at law, because the Act forbade any deviation from such published
schedules while they remained in effect.'
In both those cases the carriers had strictly observed the
filed and published tariffs, and were for this reason held
exempt from action upon What would have been their
common-law liability if an unqualified meaning had been
attributed to the language of § 22.
The present case is the very opposite of these, and the
like reasoning should, I think, lead to the opposite result.
For in the Mitchell Company Case the carrier, instead of
observing the published schedules, itself departed from them.
And-the: alleged "trackage and lateral allowances" had
no sanction of filing or publishing, nor of any order made
,'ision.
Awd in Olew Morby the Iinter,atc (Conimerce (
dist
ribui
ion
seWHIe pursued
("W,,,e,
the
car
ridale Com/smql
by the defendant. had not bcct sanctioned by the ('onmiission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PIT

Y, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

Moreover, both of the present cases relate to past transactions exclusively. And for this reason are not at all
within the doctrine of the Pitcairn Case, which related

wholly to matters in futuro.
If the discriminations attributed to "trackage and
lateral allowances" in the Mitchell Case, had received any
previous sanction such as by §6 of the Act is given to the
filed and published schedules of rates, or if in the Morrisdale Case the method of car distribution had been established or approved by an order of the Commission made
in the exercise of its administrative powers conferred by
the Act, I should -agree that the reasoning and authority
of the Abilene and Robinson and Illinois Central Cases
would control. If either of the cases at bar had to do with
the control of rates or of practices in the future, it would
seem to me that the authority and reasoning of the Pitcairn Case would control.
But to my mind, it seems a misapplication of the Abilene,
Robinson and PitcairnCases, as well as a complete perversion of the act of Congress, to say that, respecting transactions in the past, which are by lapse of time put beyond
the cognizance of an administrative body that normally
deals only with matters in futuro, and respecting which
the Commission has not acted, there shall be no right of
action in the courts without previous application to such
administrative body.
With great respect, it seems to me that the opinions in
both the present cases err in confusing legislative and
administrative functions, on the one hand, with judicial
functions, on the other. Thus, in the Mitchell Case, after
reciting the insisteflce of the plaintiff that the alleged
"trackage and lateral allowances" were arbitrarily fixed,
and constituted a mere cover for rebating, and the contention of the defendant, on the other hand, that the allowances were made bona fide for services actually performed
by the shipper in aid of the carrier, and that they were

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

271

J., dissenting.

prima facie reasonable, and must be so treated by the
courts until the Commission had determined otherwise,
the opinion proceeds as follows: "These claims of the
parties emphasize the fact that there are two classes of
acts which may form the basis of a suit for damages. In
one the legal quality of the practice complained of may
not be definitely fixed by the statute, so that an allowance,
otherwise permissible, is lawful or unlawful, according as
it is reasonable or unreasonable. But to determine that
question involves a consideration and comparison of
many and various facts, and calls for the exercise of the
discretion of the rate-regulating tribunal. The courts
have not been given jurisdiction to fix rates or practices
in direct proceedings, nor can they do so collaterally during
the progress of a lawsuit when the action is based on the
claim that unreasonable allowances have been paid. If
the decision of such questions were committed to different
courts, with different juries, the results would not only
vary in degree, but might often be opposite in characterto the destruction of' the uniformity in rate and practice
which was the cardinal object of the statute."
This is the theory upon which both opinions proceed,
the language employed in the Mitchell Company Case
being: "The courts have no primary jurisdiction to fix
rates."-" In considering the administrative question as
to reasonableness, the elements of the problem are the
same, whether they involve tfie validity of obsolete allowances, discarded tariffs, or current rates and practices.""As to past and present practices or allowances,, the Commission has the same power, and there is the same necessity to take preliminary action."
And in the opinion in the Morrisdale Company Case
(No. 207), referring to the different views that have been
expressed upon the question of car distribution, the opinion proceeds: "These rulings as to the validity of a particular practice, and the facts that ,vould warrant a de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

parture from a proper rule actually enforced, are sufficient
to show that the question as to the reasonableness of a
rule of car distribution is administrative in its character,
and calls for the exercise of the powers and discretion conferred by Congress upon the Commission,"-citing the
PitcairnCase, 215 U. S. 481, and the Illinois Central Case,
215 U. S. 452.
It is of course sufficiently obvious that where a legislative or administrative body is called upon to inquire
with respect to the reasonableness of existing rates and
practices and the propriety of sanctioning these or establishing others for the future, it is called upon to make somewhat the same kind of investigation of facts, conditions,
and circumstances that a court and a jury, or a referee
must make when adjudicating upon the lawfulness and
reasonableness of practices in the past respecting which
redress is sought by a suitor. Nevertheless, the function performed in the one case is legislative or administrative, as the case may be, and in the other case j udicial.
Courts and juries, and referees, time out of mind, have
been called upon to investigate the reasonableness of the
past practices of common carriers. They did it long before commissions and other administrative boards were
devised, and when legislation for the future rested wholly
in Parliament, and Congress, and state legislatures.
It seems to me erroneous to conclude that, because the
things that a court must do in order to pass judgment
upon a past transaction respecting the rates or practices
of a carrier are like the things that a commission or a committee, or- other administrative or legislative body must
do in order to perform their proper functions respecting
present management and future regulation, I herefore al
investigations into the past practices or rates of a carrier
are adninistrative or legislative.
Legislation consists in laying down laws or rules for

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.-

PITNEY,

273

J., dissenting.

the future. Administration has to do With the carrying of
those laws into effect-their practical application to current affairs by way of management and oversight,, including investigation, regulation and control, in accordance
with, and in execution of, the principles prescribed by the
law maker. The judicial function is confined to injunctions, etc., preventing wrongs for the future, and judgments giving redress for those of the past..
The Interstate Commerce Act, as I look upon it, clearly
recognizes these distinctions.
In the Act as originally passed and under which these
cases arose (February 4, 1887, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104) the
duties of the company and the prohibitions of discrimination in rates and otherwise are prescribed, and the Commission is established for tlQ purpose, I submit, primarily
of seeing that those duties are observed in the future. See the
proviso of § 4, permitting the Commission to relieve the
carrier from the operation of the long and short haul
clause; and the requirement in § 6 that copies of the
schedules of rates, fares and charges established and published in tompliance with the same section shall be filed
with the Commission, and notice given to it of all changes
made in the same; that all traffic agreements or arrangements with other common carriers shall be likewise filed;
that joint tariffs on through rates shall be filed, and these
"shall be made pul)lic by such common carriers when directed by said Commission in so far as may, in the judgment of the Commission, be deemed practicable; and said
Commission shall from time to time prescribe the measure
of publicity which shall be given to such rates," etc. And
for a refusal by the carrier to file or publish schedules the
carrier shall be subject to a writ of mandamus at the relation of the Commissioners, and the Commissioners as
complainant may apply for an injunction.
But then comes § 8, declaring the common carrier to be
liable to the person in~iure(l for the full amount of damages
VOt.

ccxXX--

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 IT. S.

sustained in consequence of any violation of the Act, with
a counsel fee to be fixed by the court.
The next section has been so completely overlooked that
it.
nay be well to quote it:

"SEc. 9. That any person or persons claiming to be
damaged by any common carrier subject to the provisions
of this act may either make complaint to the Commission
as hereinafter providedfor, or may bring suit in his or their
own behalf for the recovery of the damages for which such
common carrier may be liable under the provisions of this
act, in any district or circuit court of the United States
of competent jurisdiction; but such person or persons shall
not have the right to pursue both of said remedies, and must
in each case elect which one of the two methods of procedure
hereinafter provided for he or they will adopt. In any
such action brought for the recovery of damages the court
before which the same shall be pending may compel any
director, etc., to attend, appear, give testimony, etc.,
and may compel the production of the books and papers
of such corporation," etc. No similar compulsory powers
are given to the Commission.
Sec. 11. authorizes the appointment of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and prescribes the qualifications.
Sec. 12 prescribes the general duties of the Commission,
and remains for the most part unaltered by subsequent
aomendments. Unimportant amendments were made by
the act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855, c. 382, and a somewhat more important one respecting the production of
evidence, and the use of testimony taken under depositions
elsewhere, was made by the act of February 10, 1891,
26 Stat. 743, c. 128. But an examination of § 12 is
convincing of the purpose of Congress to establish the
Commission as an administrativebody, the language being
that it "shall have authority to inquire into the management of the business of all common carriers subject to
the provisions of this Act, and shall keep itself informed as

MITCHELL COAL CO. 1. PENNA. R. R. CO.

230 U.S.

PITNEY,

275

J., diisenting.

to the manner and method in which the same is conducted,
and shall have the right to obtain from such common
carriers full and complete information necessary to enable
the Commission to perform the duties and carry out the
objects for which it was created;" and (amendment of
1899), "the Commission is hereby authorized and required
to execute and enforce thc provisions of this Act," etc. The
remaining provisions of this section relate entirely to
the machinery by which these duties axe to be performed.
Sec. 13 provides for complaints or charges to be made
by any person, association, municipal organization, etc.,
respecting anything done or omitted to be done, by a
common carrier in contravention of the provisions of the
Act; that a statement of the charges "shall be forwarded
by the Commission to such common carrier, who shall
be called upon to satisfy the complaint or to answer the
same in writing within a reasonable time, to be specified
by the Commission. If such common carrier, within the
time specified, shall make reparation for the injury alleged
to have been done, said carrier shall be relieved of lia.bility to the complainant only for the particularviolation of
law thus complained ,of. -Ifsuch carrier shall not satisfy
the complaint within the time specified, or there shall
appear to be any reasonable ground for investigating
said complaint, it shall be the duty of the Commission
to-iinvestigate the matters ronpla ined of in such mannerland
by such means as it shall deem proper," etc.
By § 14, "Whenever an investigation shall be made by
said Commission, it shall be its duty to make a report
in writing in respect thereto, which shall include the findings of fact upon which the conclusions of the Commission.
are based, together with its recomnmendation as to what
reparation, if any, should be made by the common carrier
to any party or parties who may be found to have been
injured; and such findings so niad shall thereafter, in all.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

judicial proceedings, be deemed prima facie evidence as
to each and every fact found."
By § 15 it is made the duty of the Commission to deliver
a copy of its report to the common catrier, with a notice
to cease and desist from the violation of the law, or to make
reparationfor the injury found to have been done, or both,
within a reasonable time; and if the carrier does so, "a
statement to that effect shall be entered of record by the
Commission, and the said common carrier shall thereupon
be relieved from further liability or penalty for such particular violation of the law."
By § 16, if the carrier violates or refuses to obey a
lawful order or requirement of the Commission, the latter
is to apply in a summary way by petition to the United
States Circuit Court for an injunction, mandatory or otherzise. The amendment of this section made by act of
March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855, 860, c.382, expressly saves
the right of trial by jury in controversies requiring such
a trial under the Seventh Amendment. In any such proceeding the findings of the Commission are made prima
facie evidence of the matters therein stated.
The remaining provisions of the Act are, as it seems to
me, all in accord with the general policy indicated by
those above cited. The Commission is not primarily,
or in any proper sense, a judicial tribunal. Itcan render
no judgment binding upon the parties, can hold no trial
by jury, ctnnnot enforce its awards by process again.st
the person or against property; its awards arc merely
prina facie evidence, without any conclusive effe(T,
and must be etf'orced thrOugh the aid ol' the courts '
law. It is an administrative body, a'branch of the Exec.live Department, charged with the duty, of aiding in the
enforcement of the duties imposed upon the carrier by
the Act; and with incidental-and only i ncidental-authority to award reparation, or, rather, to recommend reparation where it happens, in the course of its investigations,

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U.S.

PITNEY,

277

J., dissenting.

to learn that sonme improper practice of the carrier has
produced an injury to the shipper that calls for such
redress.
The Mitchell Case arose in the years 1897 to 1901;
the Morrisdale Case during the period from March, 1902,
to December, 1905, both inclusive. Both actions arose,
therefore, prior to the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906,
34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, and the acts of April 13, 1908, 35
Stat. 60, c. 143, and June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, c. 309.
I do not see, however, that any of the amendments
makes any material change in the duties of the carriers,
or the remedies for breach of them, or in the functions
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the mode
in which they are to be performed, so far as the question
now under consideration is concerned,. By those amendments, and by the Elkins Act of February 19, 1903, 32
Stat. 847, c. 708, the original scheme of the Interstate
Commerce Act has been elaborated and the powers of
the Commission extended, including a grant of the ratemaking power, the power to prevent advances in rates,
etc. But this only emphasizes that the Commission was
established as a body having executive and legislative
rather than judicial powers. For the rate-making power
is a branch of the legislative.
There is another important distinction, very clearly
recognized in the opinion of the court in the Abilene
(olton Oil Co. Case, and pretty nearly lost sight of, as it
seems to me, in the present decisions; and that is, the
distinction between the general rules of conduct prescribed by the Act, and the standards by which obedience
to those rules is to be tested. Thus, by § 1, the rates
shall not be unreasonable; and by § 2 they shall not be
discrininatory. These are the general rules; but the
method of enforcing them in the practical opertions of
the carrier is by the rate sheets prescribed by § 6 and the
function comnmitled to the Cominmission to revise them.

( 1kTBER TERM, 1912.
1P,.r

,

.., ,lis s,'

jg,.
,

230 U. S.

Where the rate sheet has been filed, etc., it of course
becomes binding as the particular expression of the general
principle. Again, in § 4, there -is the general prohibition
known as the "long and short haul clause"; but for a
particular expression of it, as applicable to the management of a given railroad system, the Conunission may act,
as the proviso to that section declares. Clearly, until
the Commission acts, the general prohibition is unqualified; and, when the Commission has acted, itsmodification
is as much law as the general prohibition was before.
And this reasoning, I think, applies to the respective
causes of action, now under consideration. Section 2
says- "No unjust discrimination." If and when the
rates are duly published, or the Commission has lawfully
acted, the schedule or the order furnishes for the time the
measure of determining what is an unjust discrimination.
But, until the rates are filed or the Commission has acted,
it is, like every other case of violation of law, a question
for the courts, to be determined according to the terms
of the law. And so with § 3, prohibiting undue and unreasonable preferences and advantages to particular
shippers, of which, of course, discrimination in car distribution is an instance. When the Commission has
lawfully taken action in accordance with its administrative duties, prescribed by the Act, its order or requirement bec6mes applicable; but until such order or requirement is made, the duty prescribed by § 3 remains
unqualified. And ifi under eitter section, the question of
reasonableness arises in the course of an action in the
courts, it must be determined according to the facts and
the law, just as courts determine any and every other
question of reasonableness in cases within their cognizance.
In the Abilene Case the court recognized that something
must be taken from the force and effect of §§ 9 and 22
in order to give full effect to the context and the general
scherme of the Act; and therefore it naturally (and, as

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. C0.
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

279

J., dissenting.

I concede, necessarily) held that the right of action conferred by § 9 "must be confined to redress of such wrongs
as can, consistently with the context of the Act, be redressed by courts without previous action by the Commission, and therefore does not imply the power in a court
to primarily hear complaints concerning wrongs of the
characterof the one here complained of."
That is to say, complaints against a carrier who had
observed the established schedule that was made by the Act,
the conclusive evidence (until modified by the Commission) of what, rates should be deemed reasonable in law,
could not be entertained by the courts (prior to action by
the Commission) upon the theory that although reasonable in law the rates were excessive in fact.
This, however, in plain terms left open the doors of the
courts to the suitor seeking pecuniary redress for other
violations of the Act, not sanctioned by public schedules
or by any other regulation declared obligatory by the Act.
And within that category, as I think, are these present
actions, brought against a carrier that (as we must assume
in order to determine the jurisdictional question) violate(d
the Act, instead of observing it; that so far from adhering to published regulations, or mandate of the Commission, or other order rendered obligatory by the Act, set
up its own standard of practices and discriminations,
and maintained them in defiance of the right of these
plaintiffs to fair and equal treatment.
But the effect of the present decisions, if I apprehend
them correctly, is to leave no force whatever remaining
to § 9. The Abilene Case excluded from its wrongs of
the character of the one there complained of; the present
decisions excluded from its wrongs of the opposite character. That case exempted from action, the carrier who
had consistently observed the published schedirles; the
present (Mitchell) case shields the carrier who systematically departsfrom the published schedules; and, by a parity

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

of reasoning, the decision in 1he Morrisdale Case!exempts
from primary liability at law the carrier who systematically
violates the rule of equality with respect to car distribution.
In the numerous amendments that have been enacted
by Congress during the 25 years that the Interstate Commerce Act has been in force, in no instance has any change
been made in either of the sections (§§ 2, 3, 8 and 9) that
are here important. Nor has any of the changes made in
the duties of the Commission operated to deprive the
aggrieved shipper of his private action at law. Indeed,
in the third section of the Elkins Act of February 19,
1903, 32 Stat. 847, 848, c. 708, Congress,-while authorizing the Commission to apply to the Federal court for an
enforcement of the published tariffs, or a discontinuance
of discrimination, and authorizing the district attorneys,
under the direction of the Attorney General, to institute
and prosecute such proceedings,-was careful to declare
that--" The proceedings provided for by this Act shall
not preclude the bringing of suit for the recovery of damages by any party injured, or any other action provided
by said Act approved February fourt'h, eighteen hundred
and eighty-seven, entitled," etc.
But, according to the construction now for the first
time adopted, in the majority of instances the right of the
aggrieved shipper to resort to the ordinary courts of law
for the recovery of his damages is subjected to an onerous
condition precedent; or at, least it may be so subjected
at the option of the carrier; for, in No. 674 (the Mitchell
Coal Co. Case), the shipper is driven to the Interstate
Commerce Commission in respect of part of his claim
because of the defense that ,the carrier interposed; while
with respect to the residue of his claim, because the
character of the defensc was different, the action must
proceed at law.
In short, without any legislative repeal of' § 9, the op-

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

281

PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

tion there conferred upon the shipper has been transferred
to the carrier.
How serious is the difference becomes apparent upon a
little reflection, The shipper must go first to the Commission. But when he gets before the Commission h
may or may not succeed; and if he succeeds he gets no
adjudication that is binding upon the carrier, for by the
terms of the Act such findings are only primafacie correct
in so far as they determine the fact and amount of damage. In order to recover them he must still resort to the
courts. Thus, the shipper has a chance to lose his case
before the Commission, but no chance to win it there.
The ruling of the Commission may conclude the case
against him, but cannot conclude it in his favor.
Now, let us suppose the normal case of a bona fide claim,
where there is no more probability that the complaining
party will succeed than that he will fail. The probability
of success before the Commission is represented by the
fraction V?,. If successful, he must then go to the court,
and the finding of the Commission being no more than
evidence, and not even shifting the burden of proof,
the shipper's probability of success is again represented
by the fraction 12. Since he mist receive two concurring
awards, his probability of ultimate success in both tribunals is represented by 2 x Y
4. In short, instead
of having the option that Congress gave him, he is confined to a single line of procedure, contrary to the tenor
of the Act, and his probability of success is reduced from
"equal chances" down to "one chance out of four."
It is said that the questions that arise about these
practices of rebating and car distribution are complicated and difficult. Certainly that objectionis not pertinent to the present cases. I see nothing beyond the
grasp of a court of law in the Mitchell Case. The question that, as this court now holds, must await the determination of the Commission, concerns the allowances

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PIT.NEY,

J., disseroing.

230 U. S.

to the Altoona, Milwood, and Glen White Mines; and it is
in substance a mere question of fact as to whether anything, and if so how much, ought to be allowed for certain hauling services, and the like; if too much was allowed, the allowance was a cover for rebating; otherwise,
not. And the Morrisdale Case reduces itself, according
to the opinion, to a narrow question of law upon admitted
facts. It is the old question whether, during periods
of car shortage, when the carrier is unable to furnish
till the cars necessary to meet the demands for transportation, shippers having cars privately owned by themselves,
or railroads having cars of their own used to transport
their fuel, shall, by reason of these "private cars" or" fuel
cars," have a greater share in the distribution of the gross
facilities for transportation than would be the case if the
carrier undertook to supply cars of its own for all shippers.
It is a familiar question, that has been several times before
the Interstate Commerce Commission, and decided by
them as a question of law upon the authority and reasoning of the decisions of the courts of law. R. R. Com. qf
Ohio v. Hocking Valley R. R. Co. 12 T. C. C. 398; Traer v.
Chicago & Allon R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. 451; Hillsdale Coal
Co. & Pa. R. R. Co., 19 I C. C. 356. The order of the
Commission in the Hlocking Valley Case, 12 I. C. C. 398,
is the same that was sustained by this court in the Illinois
Central Case, 215 U. S. 452.
But, conceding everything that may be claimed respecting the inherent difficulty of properly passing upon such
cases, they are no more difficult than many others with
which courts of law and of equity have to grapple. The
Interstate Commerce Commission, so far as it passes
any quasi judicial judgment upon such matters, does so
by the pursuing methods that are modeled upon those of
the courts, and which this court has recently held cannot
be departed from without rendering the proceedings void.
[nt. Com. Com. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 227 U. S. 88.

MITCHELL COAL CO. i,.
PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEY, J.,

283

dissenting.

But if all the Federal judges, in all the Federal courts,
and the masters and referees who are at their command,
are unable as a practical matter to grapple with these
questions, what shall be said of the probability that the
Interstate Commerce Commission, a single body, with
headquarters at Washington, with limited powers, and
with enormous labors in the line of its legitimate administrative functions, will be able to properly dispose of the
mass of judicial work that is now to be imposed upon it?
It is said that it is necessary to have these matters of
rate discriminations and other preferential practices settled by a single tribunal. But is not this a question for
Congress? And did not Congress in plain terms' confer
upon the aggrieved shipper the option of going to the
courts rather than to the Commission? And has Congress
manifested any intent to repeal the second, third, eighth,
and ninth sections of the Act?
The opinion in the Mitchell Case recognizes that the
orders of the Commission are only "quasi-judicial and
only prima facie correct in so far as they determine the
fact and amount of damage-as to which, since it involves
the payment of money and taking of property, the carrier
is by § 16 of the Act, given its day in court and the right
to a judicial hearing (25 Stat. 859)." But is the shipper
not entitled to his (dayin court and to a judicial hearing?
Has the Constitution any greater regard for the right of a
carrier to trial by jury than it has for the right of a shipper?
Conceding, as I do, that Congress could not, because of
the Fifth Amendment, make the finding of an administrative body, acting without jury trial, final as against
the carrier, I submit, with great respect, that it gives an
unconstitutional meaning to the Act if we construe it as
depriving the shipper of his remedy without trial by jury.
It is said that if actions were to be brouglht in the
courts-"to permit separate suits and separate findings
would. not only destroy the equality which the statute

OCTOBIMR TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

intended should be permanent, but would bring about
direct conflict in the administration of the law." I confess myself unable to understand how giving redress
by a private action for the consequences of past maladministration can conflict in any way with the proper
administration of the law, which, if I understand the term,
applies to the execution of it in the present and for the
future: It is unfortunately true that, since courts and
juries are human, the result in one case does not always
seem to accord with the result in another. This is theoretically true of all suits at law; practically, the successful
administration of justice in the courts belies the theory.
The court sees in the Act a purpose to have all matters
affecting rates and the regulation of practices that have
to do with equality of service on the part of the carrier
towards the shippers "settled by a single tribunal." I
have no difficulty in finding in the Act a purpose to confer
the administrative power, the regulating power, upon a
single tribunal, to wit, the Commission. But I find nothing, and the opinions refer to nothing, indicating a purpose that past transgressions of the Act and the cognizance
of suits brought for the redress of injuries consequent
upon such transgressions shall be determined by a single
tribunal. It would seem more probable that Congress
considered precise uniformity with respect to administering justice for past offences to be an unattainable dream.
I repeat, administration, management, regulation, concern
themselves with the present and the future. The awarding of relief for past offences is properly a judicial function.
And, as I read the Act, Congress conferred jurisdiction
over such offences upon the courts; giving at the same time
an option to the shipper to resort if he would to the Coinmission in the first instance; doubtless on the theory that
the simple cases, and those: involving small amounts,
would go (as experience demonstrates that they have
gone) to the Conmisision, and that thereby that body,

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

285

J., dissenting.

while enabled to accomplish (by its recommendations
and warnings) much in the way of remedying past grievances, would at the same time be put in possession of information from sources that- otherwise would hardly be
accessible, so that on the basis of that information it could
proceed to establish regulations for the future.
Be this as it may, it seems to me highly illogical to say
that damages shall not be awarded to a shipper for viplations of the law committed by the common carrier in the
past, because the shipper would thereby "secure a belated
but undue preference." The argument overlooks the fact
that, upon the hypothesis that a cause of action exists, it
is the carrier who has given a preference to the plaintiff's
competitor; it is for the damages resulting from that preference that the action is brought; and, if the action be
justly determined, it gives to the aggrieved shipper a belated, but presumably a due, recompense.
That I have not misunderstood the real questions at
issue in the Abilene, the Robinson, the Illinois Central,
and the PitcairnCases will, I think, appear from a critical
examination of those cases, in aid of which the following
extracts' and comments are submitted (the italics, in most
instances, being my own).
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co. (1907),
204 U. S. 426, was a review under § 709, Rev. Stat., of a
judgment of a Texas state court. The Abilene Cotton Oil
Co. sued on common-law principles to recover moneys
alleged to have been exacted for freight on cotton seed
over and above a just aild reasonable charge. There were
averments (p. 430) "That the rate exacted was discriminatory, constituted an undue preference, and amounted
to charging more for a shorter than for a longer haul."
But (p. 432) these averments were eliminated in the course
of the trial. The findings, as condensed by the court
below, were (p. 432) that it was an interstate shipment,
and the rates charged by the railroad company were those

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

established under the Interstate Commerce Act, and had
been duly filed and published; but that they were in fact
unreasonable and excessive. This court (by the present
Chief Justice, then Mr. Justice White) said (p. 436) that
the question presented was:
"The scope and effect of the Act to Regulate Commerce
upon the right of a shipper to maintain an action at law

against a common carrier to recover damages because of
the exaction of an alleged unreasonable rate, although the
rate collected and complained of was the rate stated in
the schedule filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and published according to the requirements of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, and which it was the duty of
the carrier under the law to enforce as against shippers."
After pointing out that the right of recovery sustained
,by the court below was clearly within the common-law
principles stated, and was not in so many words abrogated by the Commerce Act, the court proceeded to inquire whether this common-law right had been impliedly
taken away by the Act, and to what extent. The general
scope of the Act was then reviewed as follows:
"Let us, without going into detail, give an outline of the
general scope of that Act with the object of fixing the rights
which it was intended to conserve or create, the wrongs
which it proposed to redress, and the remedies which the
Act established to accomplish the purposes which the
lawmakers had in view.
"The Act made it the duty of carriers subject to its
provisions to charge only just and reasonable rates. To
that end the duty was imposed of establishing and publishing schedules of such rates. It forbade all unjust
preferences and discriminations, made it unlawful to depart
from the rates in the established schedules until the same were
changed as authorize' by the Act, and such departure was
made an offense punishable by fine or imprisonment, or
both, and the prohibitions of the Act and the punishments

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

287

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

which it imposed were directed not only against carriers
but against shippers, or any person who, directly or indirectly, by any machination or device in any manner whatsoever, accomplished the result of producing the wrongful
discriminations or preferences which the Act forbade. It
was made the duty of carriers subject to the Act to file
with the Interstate Commerce Commission created by
that Act copies of established schedules, and power was
conferred upon that body to provide as to the form of the
schedules and penalties were imposed for not establishing
and filing the required schedules. The Commission was
endowed with plenary administrative power to supervise the
conduct of carriers, to investigate their affairs, their accounts and their methods of dealing, and generally to enforce the provisions of the Act. To that end it was made the
duty of the District Attorneys of the United States, under
the direction of the Attorney General, to prosecute proceedings commenced by the Commission to enforce compliance with the Act. The Act specially provided that
whenever any common carrier subject to its provisions
' shall do, cause to be done, or permit to be done any act,
matter or thing in this Act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful, or shall omit to do any act, matter, or thing in
this Act required to be done, such common carrier shall be
liable to the person or persons injured thereby for the full
amount of damages sustained in consequence of any such
violation of the provisions of this Act.

.

'

Power

was conferred upon the Commission to hear complaints concerning violations of the Act, to investigate the same, and,
if the complaints were well founded, to direct not only the
making of reparationto the injured persons, but to order the
carrier to desist from such violation in the future. In the
event of the failure of a carrier to obey the order of the
Commission that body, or the party in whose favor an
award of reparation was made, was empowered to compel
compliance by invoking the authority of the courts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
230 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

United States in the manner pointed out in the statute,
primafacie effect in such courts-being given to the findings
of fact made by the Commission. By the ninth section
of the Act it was provided as follows:
"That any person or persons claiming to be damaged by
any common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act
may either make complaint to the Commission, as hereinafter
providedfor, or may bring suit in his or their own behalffor
the reeovery of the damages for which such common carrier
may be liable under the provisions of this Act, in any District
or Circuit Court of the United States of competent'jurisdicion; but such person or persons shall not have the right
to pursue both of said remedies, and must in each case
elect which one of the two methods of procedure herein
provided for he or they will adopt.

.

.

"And by section 22, which we shall hereafter fully consider, existing appropriate common-law and statutory
remedies were saved.
"When the Act to Regulate Commerce was enacted
there was contrariety of opinion whether, when a rate
charged by a carrier was in and of itself reasonable, the
person from whom such a charge was exacted had at
common-law an action against the carrier because of damage asserted to have been suffered by a discrimination
against such person or a preference given by the carrier to
another. (Parsons v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry., 167
U. S. 447, 455; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 145 U. S. 263, 275.) That the Act to
Regulate Commerce was intended to afford an effective
means for redressing the wrongs Tesulting from unjust
discrimination and undue preference isundoubted. Indeed, it is not open to controversy that to provide for these
subjects was among the principal purposes of the Act.
(Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 167 U. S.479, 494.) And
it is apparent that the means by which these great purposes

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S:

PITNEY,

289

., dissenting.

were to be accomplished was the placing upon all carriersthe
positive duty to establish schedules of reasonable rates which
should have a uniform applicationto all and which should not
be departedfrom so long as the established schedule remained
unaltered in the manner provided by law. (Cincinnati,New
Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 162 U. S. 184; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati; New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co.,
167 lb. 479.)
"When the general scope of the Act is enlightened by the
considerations just stated it becomes manifest that there
is not only a relation, but an indissoluble unity between the
provision for- the establishment and maintenance of rates
until corrected in accordance:with the statute and the prohibitions against preferences and discrimination. This follows,
because unless the requirement of a uniform standard of
rates be complied with it would result that violations of
the statute as to preferences and discrimination would
inevitably follow. This is clearly so, for if it be that the
standard of rates fixed in the mode provided by the statute
could be treated on the complaint of a shipper by a court
and jury as unreasonable, without. reference to prior action
by the Commission, finding the established rate to be unreasonable and ordering the carrier to desist in the future
from violating the Act, it would come to pass that a shipper
might obtain relief upon the basis that the 6stablished
rate was unreasonable, in the opinion of a court and jury,
and thus such shipper would receive a preference or discrimination not enjoyed by those against whom the
schedule of rates was continued to be enforced. This can
only be met by the suggestion that the judgment o a
court, when based upon a complaint made by a shipper
without previous action by the Commission, would give
rise to a change of the schedule rate and thus cause the
new rate resulting 'from the action of the court to be
applicable in future as to all. This suggestion, however,
VoL. cCXXX_-49

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

is manifestly without merit, and only serves to illustrate
the absolute destruction of the Act and the remedial provisions which it created which would arise from a recognition of the right asserted. For if, without previous action
by the Commission, power might be exerted by courts and
juries generally to determine the reasonablenessof an established rate, it would follow that unless all courts reached
an identical conclusion a uniform standard of rates in the
future would be impossible, as the standard would fluctuate and vary, dependent upon the divergent conclusions
reached as to reasonableness by the various courts called
upon to consider the subject as an original question. Indeed the recognition of such a right is wholly inconsistent
with the administrativepower conferredupon the Commission
and with the duty, which the statute casts upon that
body, of seeing to it that the statutory requirement as to
uniformity and equality of rates is observed. Equally
obvious is it that the existence of such a power in the
courts, independent of prior action by the Commission,
would lead to favoritism, to the enforcement of one rate
in one jurisdiction and a different one in another, Would
destroy the prohibitions against preferences and discrimination, and afford, moreover, a ready means by which,
through collusive proceedings, the wrongs which the
statute was intended to remedy could be successfully inflicted. Indeed no reason can be perceived for the enactment of the provision endowing the administrative tribunal, which the Act created, with power, on due proof,
not only to award reparation to a particular shipper, but to
command the carrierto desist from violation of the Act in the
future, thus compelling the alteration of the old or the
filing of a new schedule, conformably to the action of the
Commission, if the power was left in courts to grant relief
on complaint of any shipper, upon the theory that the
established rate could be disregarded and be treated as
unreasonable, without reference to previous action by the

MITCHELL COAL CO. t,.
PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

291

PTNEY, J., dissenting.

Commission in the premises. This must be, because, if
the power existed in both courts and the Commission to
originally hear complaints ol this subject, there might
be a divergence between the action of the Commission
and the decision of a court. In other words, the established
schedule might be found reasonable by the Commission
in the first instance and unreasonable by a court acting
*originally, and thus a conflict would arise which would
render the enforcement of the Act impossible.
"Nor is there merit in the contention that section 9 of
the Act compels to the conclusion that it was the purpose
of Congress to confer power upon courts primarily to
relieve from the duty of enforcing the established rate by
finding that the same as to a particular person or corporation was so unreasonable as to justify an award of damages. True it is that the general terms of the section when
takon alone might sanction such a conclusion, but when
the provision of that section is read in connection with
the context of the Act and in the light of the considerations
which we have enumerated, we think the broad construction contended for is not admissible. And this becomes
particularly cogent when it is observed that the power oif
the courts to award damages to those claiming to have
been injured, as provided in the section, contemplates only
a decree in favor of the individual complainant, redressing
the particular wrong asserted to have been done, and does
not embrace the power to direct the carrier to abstain in
the future from similar violations of the Act; in other
words, to command a correction of the established schedules, which power, as we have shown, is conferred by the

Act upon the Commission in express terms. In other
words, we think that it inevitably follows from the context of the Act that the independent right of an individual
originally to maintain actions in courts to obtain pecuniary
redressfor violations of the Act conferred by the ninth section
must be confined to redress of such wrongs as can, con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

sistently with the context of the Act, be redressed by courts
without previous action by the Commission, and, therefore,
does not imply the power in a court to primarily hear conyplaints concerning wrongs of the character of the one here
complained of. Although an established schedule of rates
may have been altered by a carrier voluntarily or as the
result of the enforcement of an order of the Commission
to desist from violating the law, rendered in accordance
with the provisions of the statute, it may not be doubted
that the power of the Commission would nevertheless
extend to hearing legal complaints of and awarding
reparation to individuals for wrongs unlawfully suffered
from the application of the unreasonable schedule during
the period when such schedule was in.force."
After citing two decisions in the lower Federal courts,
and distinguishing several previous decisions of this court,
and relying upon the Hefley Case, 158 U. S. 98, and the
Mugg Case, 202 U. S. 242, as showing that the established
rates were binding, the opinion proceeds (p. 445):
"In view of the binding effect of the established rates
upon both the carrier and the shipper, as expounded in
the two decisions of this court just referred to, the contention now made if adopted would necessitate the holding
that A cause of action in favor of a shipper arose from the
failure of the carrier to make an agreement, when, if the
agreement had been made, both the carrier and the shipper
would have been guilty of a criminal offense and the agreement would have been so absolutely void as to be impossible of enforcement. Nor is there forte in the suggestio a
that a like dilemma arises from the recognition of power
in the Commission to award reparation in favor of an individual because of a finding by that body that a rate in
an established schedule was unreasonable. As we have
shown, there is a wide distinction between the two cases.
When the Commission is called upon on the complaint of an
individual to consider the reasonableness of an established

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S,

293

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

rate, its power is 'invoked not merely to authorize a departure
from such rate in favor 0f the complainant alone, but to exert
the authority conferred upon it by the Act, if the complaint i&
found to be just, to compel the establishment of a new schedule
of rates applicable to all. And like reasoning would be applicable to the granting of reparation to an individual after
the establishment of a new schedule because of a wrong
endured during the period when the unreasonable schedule
was enforced by the carrier and before its change and the
establishment of a new one. In other words, the difference
between the two i.; that which on the one hand would
arise from destroying the uniformity of rates which it
was the object of the statute to secure and on the other
from enforcing that equality which the statute commands.
" But it is insisted that, however cogent may be the
views previously stated, they should not control, because
of the following provision contained in section 22 of the
Act to Regulate Commerce viz: '. . . Nothing, in tris
Act contained shall in any way abridge or alter tho remedies now existing at common-law or by statute, but the
provisions of this Act are in addition to such remedies.'
This clause, however, cannot in reason be construed as
continuing in shippers a common-law right, the continued
existence of which would be absolutely inconsistent with
the provisions of the Act. In other words the Act cannot
be held to destroy itself. The clause is concerned alone
with rights recognized in or duties imposed by the Act and
the manifest purpose of the provision in question was to
make plain the intention that any specific remedy given
by the Act should be regarded as cumulative, when other
appropriate common-law or statutory remedies existed
for the redress of the particular grievance or wrong dealt
with in the Act.
"The proposition that if the statute be construed as
depriving courts generally, at the instance of shippers, of
the power to grant redress upon the basis that an estab>

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PrrxrY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

lished rate was unreasonable without previous action by
the commission great harm will result, is only an argument
of inconvenience which assails the wisdom of the legislation or its efficiency and affords no justification for so interpreting the statute as to destroy it. Even, however, if
in any case we were at liberty to depart from the obvious
and necessary intent of a statute upon considerations of
expediency, we are admonished that the suggestions of
expediency here advanced are not shown on this record to
be justified. Aswe have seen, although the Act to Regulate
Commerce has been in force for many years, it appears
that by judicial exposition and in practical execution it
has been interpreted and applied in accordance with the
construction which we give it. That the result of such
long-continued, uniform construction has not been considered as harmful to the public interests is persuasively
demonstrated by the fact that the amendments which
have been made to the Act have not only not tended to
repudiate such construction, but, on the contrary, have
had the direct effect of strengthening and making, if possible, more imperative the provisions of the Act requiring
Ihe establishment of rates and the adhesion. by both carriers
and shippers to the rates as established until set aside in pursuance to the provisions of the Act. Thus, by section 1 of
the act approved February 19, 1903, commonly known as
the Elkins Act, which, although enacted since the shipments in question, is yet illustrative, the willful failure
upon the part of any carrier to file and publish 'the tariffs
or rates and charges,' as required by the Act to Regulate
Commerce and the acts amendatory thereof, 'or strictly
to observe such tariffs until changed according to law,' was
made a misdemeanor, and it was also made a misdemeanor to offer, grant, give, solicit, accept, or receive any
rebate from published rates of other concession or discrimination. And in the closing sentence of section l.,it
was provided as follows:

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

295

PuTNY, J., dissenting.

"'Whenever any carrier files with the Interstate Commerce Commission or publishes a particular rate under the
provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce or acts
amendatory thereof, or participates in any rates so filed
or published, that rate as against such carrier,its officers, or
agents in any prosecution begun under this Act, shall be conelusively deemed to be the legal rate, and any departurefrom
such rate or any offer to depart therefrom shall be deemed to
be an offense under this section of this Act.'
"And, by section 3, power was conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission to invoke the equitable
powers of a Circuit Court of the United States to enforce
an observance of the published tariffs.
"Concluding, as we do, that a shipper seeking reparation
predicated upon the unreasonablenessof the established rate
must, under the Act to Regulate Commerce, primarily invoke redress through the Interstate Commerce Commission, which body alone is vested with power originally to
entertain proceedings for the alteration of an established
schedul6'because the rates fixed therein are unreasonable,
it is unnecessary for us to consider whether the court
below would have had jurisdiction to afford relief if the
right asserted had not been repugnant to the provisions
of the Act to Regulate Commerce. It follows from what
we have said, that the court below erred in the construction which it gave to the Act to Regulate Commerce."
In short, what the Abilene Cotton Oil Case decides is,
that with respect to interstate commerce the Act by its
own language prescribed how it should be determined what
rates should be charged by carriers, and how such rates
should be made manifest; and that while § 1 of the Act
prohibited any charge beyond just and reasonable rates,
it imposed the duty of establishing and publishing schedules, to the very end of enforcing-that provision, and in the
effort to prevent unjust preferences and discriminations it
rendered it unlawful to departfrom the established schedules

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
PITNEY,

230 U.S,

J., ousgentinf,

until they were changed by the administroative Commission; wherefore the rate thus established and published
must be deemed in law a reasonable rate for all purposes
affecting the rights of the carrier and shipper between
themselves until it had been altered by the commission,
which might be done if they found it unreasonable in fact.
The entire reasoning of the opinion is quite consistent
and logical, as well as most cogent and convincing, if confined to that subject-matter.
But to so apply that reasoning as to make it support the
contention that discriminations by the carrier in the past,
amounting to a departureby the carrierfrom the established
schedule, and effectuated by the giving of secret rebates
to competitors in violation of § 2, or by other discriminatory practices violative of § 3, and where the conduct of
the carrier has no prima facie sanctior ruader the law by
reason of the filing and publishing of a sehedule, or otherwise, shall not be actionable in the ordinary course of law
without a previous investigation or detterination by the
commission upon the subject, is not only to ignore the
essential differences between the facts in this case and
those in the Abilene Case, but is t0 idfrt.u.Jlly eliminate § 9
of the Interstate Commerce Act, which Cri;n. es in all its
amendments has been scrupulously ca' ul to leave untouched; and to make of the Interstate Co'Gn, ere Commission,
instead of an administrativeand
i-uasieqi,-,at ve body, with
duties to perform respecting the laying dr::v

(,f

rules for tze

future and seeing that the carrierscontinue to conform to their
duties under the Act, a judicial body bu" without judicial
powers, proceeding not by the ordinarypr oess of law, but by
written notices, sent here and there and everywhere to the
persons concerned; not in actiono inte,2r partes, but in omnibus
investigations conducted with association of shippers and
municipal corporations and other organizatioren, as parties
of the one part, and groups of rail'oad, as parties of the
other part; holding their sessior s in, Washington or wherever

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

297

PiPNY, J., dissenting.

it pleases them; without ample power to enforce the production of evidence; and without any power to enforce their
findinqs.
Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. (1912), 222 U. S.
506, is in principle exactly like the Abilene Case, and was
decided upon its authority. There, the schedule published
and filed conformably to the Act made a differential between coal loaded into the car from wagons and coal
loaded from a tipple. Robinson's shipments having
come under the higher rate, he sued to recover from the
company $150 which was the excess paid by him over
what would have been required if his coal had been loaded
from a tipple. There was an agreed statement of facts,
but in it was no suggestion that the schedule had been
the subject of complaint before the Interstate Commerce
Commission or had been found by that Commission to be
unjustly discriminatory, or that any order had been made
about it. Naturally and properly this court held that
there was no right of action. The pith of the reasoning
is lucidly expressed in the opinion of the court (by Mr.
Justice Van Devanter) as follows (pp. 508, 509):
"The Act, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379; c. 382, 25 Stat. 855;
c. 61, 28 Stat. 643; c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, whilst prohibiting
unreasonable charges, unjust discriminations and undue
preferences by carriers subject to its provisions, also
prescribed the manner in which that prohibition should be.
enforced; that is to say, the Act laid upon every such
carrier the duty of publishing and filing in a prescribed
mode, schedules of the rates to be chargedfor the transportation of property over its road, declared that,the rates named
in schedules so established should be conclusively deemed to
be the legal rates until changed as provided in the Act, forbade any deviation from them while they remained in effect,
invested the Interstate Commerce Commission with authority
to receive complaints against rates so established, and to
inquire and find whether they were in any: wise violative

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

of the provisions of the Act, and, if so, what, if any, injury
had been done thereby to the person complaining or to others,
and further authorized the Commission to direct the carrier
to desist from any violation found to exist, and to -make
reparationfor any injury found to have been done. Provision was also made for the enforcement of the order
for reparation, by an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States, if the carrier failed to comply with it.
"Thus, for the purpose of preventing unreasonable
charges, unjust discriminations and undue preferences,
a system of establishing, maintaining and altering rate
schedules and of redressing injuries resulting from their
enforcement was adopted whereby publicity would be
given to the rates, their application would be obligatory
and uniform while they remained in effect, and the matter
of their conformity to prescribed standards would be
committed primarily to a single tribunal clothed with
authority to investigate complaints and to order the correction of any non-conformity to those standards by an
appropriate change in schedules and by due reparation
to injured persons.
"When the purpose of the Act and the means selected
for the accomplishment of that purpose are understood,
it is altogether plain that the Act contemplated that suCh
an investigation and order by the designated tribunal,
the Interstate Commerce Commission, should be a prerequisite to the right to seek reparation in the courts because of exactions under an established schedule alleged
to be violative of the prescribed standards."
The Abilene and Robinson Cases maintain the binding
force of published rates and differentials established
pursuant to the Act, until modified by the Commission
in the manner provided by the Act.
The present decisions give the same force to discriminatory practices established by the carrier without leave
of the Commission, not included in the published rates

MITCHELL COAL CO. v.PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

299

PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

and differentials, the practices being in direct violation
of the Act.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R.
Co. (1909), 215 U. S. 452, was a suit brought by the Railroad Company in the United States Circuit Court to
restrain the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission respecting cai distribution. The
issues were recited in the opinion of the court (by the
present Chief Justice, then Mr. Justice White) as follows
(p. 465):
"Being unwilling to comply with the order of the commission, the Illinois Central Railroad Company commenced the suit which is now before us to enjoin in all
respects the enforcement of the order of the commission.
It was averred that although the company was adequately
equipped with coal cars and with sufficient motive power
and operative forces, yet at times an inadequate supply of
coal cars to meet the demand arose from the circumstances
which we have previously stated. It was alleged that the
regulations adopted by the company for ascertaining
the capacity of the mines and for the distribution of
cars were in all respects just and reasonable, and it was
charged that the order of the commission, directing the taking
into account of private cars in the distribution of cars, was
unjust, unreasonable, oppressive and unlawful, because
it deprived the ownees of such cars of the right to the use of
their own property. It was further alleged that, as to the
foreign railway fuel cars, the order was also unjust,
unreasonable, oppressive and unlawful, because such
cars constituted no part of the equipment of the road,
and, failing to count them, could not constitute an unlawful discrimination or the giving of an unjust preference within the intendment of the act to regulate commerce. Besides charging that the order to count the company
fuel cars was unjust, unreasonable, etc., it was averred that
the attempt of the commission to deal with such cars was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S,

beyond its power, and was but an effort to deprive the company of its lawful right to freely contract for the purchase
of the fuel necessary for the operation of its road. In addition; the proceedings in the suit brought by the Nfajestic
Coal Company were set out, the granting of a temporary
injunction therein as to counting foreign railway fuel
cars and private cars was alleged, and it was charged that
in any event, as to those two classes of cars, the order
of the Commission was not lawful since it compelled the
company to violate the injunction which was yet in force.
The Commission answered by asserting the validity in all
respects of the order by it made, substantiallyupon the grounds
which had been set out in its report and opinion announced
when the order was made. All the averments in the complaint as to want of power were traversed and it was expressly
charged that the subject of the distribution of coal cars as
dealt with by the order was within the administrative power
delegated to the commission by the terms of the Act to Regulate
Commerce., 1
The Circuit Court enjoined the Commission from en'-forcing its order "in so far as it directed the taking into
account the company fuel cars in the distribution of coal
cars in times of car shortage, and in so far as it directed
the future taking such cars into account." The Interstate
Commerce -Commission appealed to this court, and the
decree was reversed on the ground that so far as it related
to the company fuel cars the order of the Commission was
within its administrative power.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co. (1910),
215 U. S. 481, arose on a petition of the Coal Company
for a mandamus upon the Railroad Company to restrain
discrimination in the distribution of cars in the "Fairmont
region" of West Virginia, alleged to be in violation of
§ 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. The petition
was filed January 16, 1907, in the United States Circuit
Court, under § 10 of the act of March 2, 1889 (25 Stat.

5[IT 'HELL COAL (0. v. PENNA. It. R. CO.
2,30 U. 8.

Ptx

301

,J., dissent~ing.

855, 862, eb. 382), sometimes called § 23 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, because printed under that number in
the pamphlet compilation of Interstate Commerce Laws.
This section provided that for a violation of any-of the
provisions of the act of 1887 and amendments, preventing
the relator from having interstate traffic moved at the
same rates as are charged, or upon terms or conditions
as favorable as those given by said common carrier for like
traffic under similar circumstances, to any other shipper,
"a mandamus might be issued commanding such common
carrier to move and traiasport the traffic, or to furnish
cars or other facilities for transportation for the party
applying for the writ." There were numerous grounds
of complaint, some of which were abandoned at the
hearing, and of the others the United States Circuit Court'
(154 Fed. Rep. 108, 120) overruled all except one, and
with respect to that awarded a writ of mandamus. There
were cross writs of error from the Circuit Court bf Appeals,
which court affirmed the judgment so far as questioned
by the defendant's writ of error, and reversed it in part
so far as questioned by the relator's writ of error (165
Fed. Rep. 113, 132). Upon review in this court it was
pointed out in the opinion (by the present Chief Justice)
at p. 492, that the question was, whether the court could
grant the relief prayed consistently with the provisions
of the Act to Regulate Commerce; and (p. 493): "That
a prohibition, by way of mandamus, against the act is
sought and an order, by way of mandamus, was invoked,
and was allowed which must operate, by judicial decree,
Supon all the numerous parties and various interests as a rule
or regulation as to the matters complained of for the condbuct
of interstate commerce in the future. When the situation
is thus defined we see no escape from the conclusion that
the grievances complained of were primarily within the admnnnistrative competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and not subject to be judically enforced, at least

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

until that body, clothed by the statute with authority
on the subject, had been afforded by a complaint made
to it the opportunity to exert its administrative functions."
And, after referring to the decision in the Abilene Case,
which dealt with the provisions of the, Act as they existed
prior to the amendment of 1906, the opinion pointed out
(p. 494) that the amendment adopted in 1906 to § 15
of the Act (34 Stat. 584, 589, c. 3591), had the effect
of partially repealing (what was called § 23 of the Act of
1887, but was really) § 10 of the Act of March 2, 1889,
25 Stat. 855, 862, c. 382, already referred to, which permitted the courts to award mandamus in certain cases.
The opinion discusses at length the effect of the 1906
amendment of § 15 upon the remedy by mandamus conferred by the previous Act, with the result of holding
that there was an implied repeal so far as the adjustment of
the car-shortageregulations in the case under consideration
was concerned.
But it will be observed that the aid of the courts was there
invoked with respect to future regulations, and it was denied
because by the terms of the act of 1906 it was placed within
the administrative functions of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and the mode in which their orders were
to be carried into effect was by the same amendment
prescribed.
I confess myself unable to find in the Illinois Central
and Pitcairn Cases, or in the reasoning of the opinions
therein, any ground for holding that the general right of
action conferred by § 8 of the original Interstate Commerce
Act for a violation of §§ 2 or 3, or the option conferred
upon -the party injured, by § 9 of the same Act, has beeni
repealed as to past transactions where the conduct of the
carrier has not the sanction of an order of the commission,
or (what is in essence the same thing) has not the sanction
of a formal compliance with the Act, which the Act itself
declares shall be prima facie lawful, as was the case with

MITCHELL COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

303

PITNEY, J., disscnting.

the published tariffs that were under consideration in the
Abilene and Robinson Cases.
To declare, as was declared in the Abilene Case, that
a carrier shall not be held actionable as for extortion in ,the
past where it has merely charged the rates that were fixed
in the schedule established in accordance with the Act, is
to my mind as far as possible from declaring that past
practices of the carrier that are not sanctionedby any finding
or schedule, or otherwise protected from attack by the
provisions of the Act, are exempt from court inquiry;
or that the carrieris exempt from an ordinary action at law
for violations of the Act, when §§ 8 and 9 in plain terms
declare that the carrier shallfor such violations be subject td
an ordinary action at law, and declare also that the aggrieved
shipper shall have the option whether he will make complaint
to the Commission or bring his action in court.
In answer' to the suggestion that the result reached in
these cases virtually nullifies § 9 of the Act, it is said that
the contrary is shown by the decision just announced
in PennsylvaniaRailroadv. InternationalCoal Co., No. 14,
ante, p. 184. As I have endeavored to point out in the
dissenting opinion in that case, the court there concedes
the right of action, but in effect deies the right of recovery; for it excludes from consideration the only measure
of damages that has ever been, or can be, generally
applied in actions of that character.
The result of the decisions in these three cases, taken
together, is, as it seems to me, to so greatly restrict and
hamper the private right of action that Congress intended
to confer by §§ 8 and 9 of the Act, that it is difficult to
conceive of a case where the injured shipper can, by the
simple and direct mode of an action at law, recover any
substantial compensation for the discriminations practiced
upon him by the carrier.

