OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

MORRISDALE COAL COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No.207.

Argued April 15, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Without preliminary action by the Interstate Commerce Commission
declaring that the carrier had, by the rule adopted in regard to distribution of cars, discriminated against a shipper in such distribution,
the Federal 'courts have no jurisdiction of a suit by such shipper for
damages alleged to be occasioned by undue discrimination against
him and undue preference in favor of his competitor,
The question as to the reasonableness of a rule of car distribution is
administrative in its character and calls for the exercise of the
powers and discretion conferred by Congress upon the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Where the alleged discriminations in distribution of cars occurred
more than two years before its commencement, the action cannot
be stayed to permit an application to the Interstate Commerce
Commission as, under the act of June 29, 1906, all of such claims
are barred after two years. Southern Railway v. Tift, 206 U. S. 434.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. Chester N.
Farr,Jr., was on the brief, for appellant:
This action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States under § 9 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
to recover damages by reason of a violation by the carrier
of § 3 of that act.
Under § 9 of the act, the person damaged may proceed
by "complaint to the Commission," or "may bring
suit . . . for the recovery of the damages for which
such common carrier may be liable under the provisions
of this act in any District or Circuit Court of the United
States of competent jurisdiction."
For violation of § 3, § 8 gives the party aggrieved the

MtIiISI)ALEA(OAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
2;,-U. S.

305

Argument for Appellant.

right to recover in the forums provided by § 9, "the full
amount of damages sustained in consequence of any such
violation of the provisions of this act."
The complaint was that the defendant, during the period
from 1902 to January 1, 1906, promulgated certain rules
providing a pro rata coal car distribution when it was unable to furnish all the cars which shippers needed, aInd
that during such period the defendant unjustly discriminated agains plaintiff by: (a) violating such rules, or
(b) establishing and carrying out rules which unjustly
discriminated against plaintiff. On January 1, 1906, the
defendant canceled the rules theretofore in effect, and
established rules which were not thereafter complained of,
and the purpose of the action was to recover damages for
past violation of § 3 of the act. There was a verdict for
the plaintiff, and upon a question of law reserved, the
court held that the proceedings should in the first instance
have been by complaint to the Interstate Commerce
Commission, under the case of Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, and thereupon entered judgment for defendant. This judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the judgment
of that court is here for review.
The plaintiff is entitled to the right of action in the
Circuit Court given by § 9 of the act, unless the exercise
thereof would "deprive the subsequent statute of its
efficiency; in other words, render its provisions nugatory."

Abilene Cotton Oil Co. Case, 204 U. S. 437.
The complaint is only required to be made to the Commission in the first instance when "there is involyed a
question of administrative discretion." L. & N. R. R. Co.
v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70.
And where there is involved "a question of administrative discretion," there must necessarily be a complaint
f-o the Commission in the first instance, for in such case
the finding of fact by the Commission, when the pro)(eedvOL., CxxX- -A()

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

ing is according to law, is conclusive and beyond the competency of any court to reexamine. I. C. C. v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, at page 550; I. C. C. v.
D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, at page 255.
A question of "administrative discretion" can only
arise upon and be "involved" in the consideration of a
present or future action or courge of conduct. It cannot
arise in a judicial or quasi judicial determination of
whether a past course of conduct either (a) violated certain
rules, or (b) created unjust discrimination. The reason
for requiring a complaint to the Commission in the first
instance when a question of "administrative discretion"
is involved is clear, because the finding of fact thereon by
the Commission is "conclusive," and no court is competent "to reexamine" such finding.
The present case, however, is an action brought in 1908
for damages accruing prior to January 1, 1906, and for a
cause which did not exist after that date. It involved no
question of "administrative discretion," but a judicial
determination of whether the carrier during a period in
the past (a) violated its rule, or (b) whether such rules in
the past discriminated against plaintiff.
In this case, if there had been complaint to the Commission in the first instance, and it had found the fact of
violation of the rules or discrimination, and ordered the
payment of the damages to which plaintiff was entitled,
such finding and order would have to be enforced by an
action at law in the Circuit Court and trial by jury, upon
the same issues passed upon by the Commission, in which
action the finding of the Commission and its order would
only be "prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated."
See Act to Regulate Commerce, § 16.
It is perfectly reasonable, therefore, to hold that in a
case where the finding of fact by the Commission is conclusive under the act, that resort must be had in the first
instance to the Commission and then to the courts. It

MORRISDALE COAL CO. r. PENNA. R. R. CO. 307
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

is equally as unreasonable to hold that' when, under
§ 9, a party may proceed for the recovery of damages for
past grievances, either by complaint to the Commission
or by action in the Circuit Court, that he must in the first
instance complain to the Commission, and then have a
jury pass upon exactly the same issues, with the finding
of the Commission as prima facie evidence only.
When the plaintiff has the option under § 9 to complain
to the Commission or by action in the Circuit Court, there
can be no reason to require him to complain to the Commission in the first instance, when the prima facie finding
of the Commission must be submitted to the court and
jury, and may be promptly rejected.
WThen the question is one of "administrative discretion,"
every reason would require a party to secure in the first
instance the "conclusive" finding of fact by the Comnission; otherwise confusion would arise in having a court
not charged with administrative duty to find the facts,
instead of the Commission, which was charged with the
duty of administration in connection with the question
involved. When, however, the complaint is simply to
recover damages for past wrongs, no reason can require
the party to get, in the first instance, the prima facie finding of the Commission to submit to a jury which, by § 9,
has the right to pass upon the case. in the first instance,
and no confusion can arise because the finding of the Commission in such a, case is only primafacie and must finally
be submitted to the jury. When no confusion can arise
as between the Interstate Commerce Commission and
the Circuit Court, jurisdiction remains in the Circuit
Court. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426, at,pages 440, 441.
Mr. Jo)h G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Frederic 1).
McKennci1 and Mr. Francis 1. Cowen were on the brief,
for appellee:

OCTOBER 'FEM.M, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

230 IT.S.

The coal company can only recover in case it establishes:
That the rule or system established and pursued by the
railroad company or in the distribution of its cars was
transgressive of the provisions contained in the Interstate
Commerce Act prohibiting discrimination by a common
carrier.
That the rule or system advocated by the coal company
should have been pursued by the railroad company in
making the distribution of its cars.
That in making distribution of its equipment in any
given period of time a carrier is guilty of discrimination
if it fails in any month in such period to allot and deliver
to each shipper his or its pro rata of cars, and that, overdeliveries in other months more than sufficient to make
good the shortage in any one or more months cannot be
taken into consideration.
All of these propositions were primarily, at least, for
the consideration of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Iit. Com. Comm. v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 215 U. S.452;
Batt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481.
In this case the coal company attacked as discriminatory, and as consequently unlawful, the regulation or rule
which had governed the railroad company in the distribution of its equipment, and sought to have substituted
therefor a different regulation or rule as the one which
should have governed in such distribution.
The power and authority of the Interstate Commerce
Commission must be regarded i.-exten
;ing
to and embracing the authority necessary tc pas,, upon and determine
whether the method or system of the defendant in error
was proper, and if not, whether that advocated by the
plaintiff in error was the proper and correct one.
MR. 't'riciE
LAMAR delivered the optnion of the coU1t.
There are a large number of coal mines ii the Clearfield
District, Tyrone Division of the Coal Region, in the State

MORRISDALE COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

of Pennsylvania. Between January 1, 1900, and December 31, 1905, the total output of the mines in the
Clearfield District averaged 18,500 tons per day. When
there was a car shortage, the Pennsylvania Railroad
allotted to each mine a percentage of cars assigned to
the District, calculated according to the capacity of the
nuine.
On this basis the Morrisdale Coal Company was entitled
to about 4.8 per cent and the Berwind-White Company
to about 18 per cent.
In 1908 the Morrisdale Company brought suit against
the Railroad for damages alleged to have been occasioned
by an unfair distribution of cars to it and an undue allotment of cars to its competitor, the Berwind-White Company.
Alleging that in violation of its duty to see that no
undue preference was given to any other person or corporation in the District, the carrier failed to assign to
the plaintiff its fair proportion of the entire number of coal
cars of the Railroad Company, to which plaintiff was entitled and that this failure continued from the beginning
of 1900 to the close of 1905, the effect of which was to
subject plaintiff to unreasonable prejudice with respect
to the facilities for shipping coal as conw-asted with the
facilities furnished other competitors in the Clearfield
District, and as a result of the unfair discrimination
and the failure to furnish a proper allotment of cars and
equal facilities, plaintiff was obliged to buy coal at various
times in the outside market at prices then prevailing ill
order to fi!] its coivt raci previously entered into---to its
daniage $250,000. The defendant entered a plea of not.
guilty and actio non accrevit inffra sex annos. On the
trial, the jury found that the'exhibit showing damages of
$67,156.07 was correct. "If the court shall be of opinion
that the questions of law involved in the case are in whole
or in part with the plaintiff, we find for the plaintiff. If,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
-Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

however, the court be of opinion that the questions of
law are with the defendant, then we find in favor of the
defendant."
There was no conflict in the evidence, and in view of
the admissions of the plaintiff incorporated in the record,
the facts can be briefly stated.
The capacity of plaintiff's mine was 4.8 per cent. of the
output of the Clearfield region, and having been furnished
access to the books of the carrier, it made up a statement
showing that during 23 months between March, 1902,
and December 31, 1905, in which there was a car shortage,
the Morrisdale Company received less than its 4.8 of all
the coal cars in the Clearfield region, while the BerwindWhite Company received more than its 18 per cent.
of all the coal cars in the region. This was admitted by
the Railroad, which insisted that during periods of car
shortage it divided the cars into four classes:
1. Private cars, belonging to persons or corporations
operating mines in the district;
2. Cars of foreign railroads consigned to designated
mines to be loaded with fuel for such foreign
railroads;
3. Pennsylvania Railroad fuel cars, consigned to designated mines to be loaded with fuel for railroad
use;
4. The balance, or System cars, available for generul
use, it distributed among the various mines in
the proportion their capacity bore to the total
output of the Clearfield region, the plaintiff
being allotted its due proportion, or 4.8 per
cent thereof.
The Railroad explained that the apparent excess of
cars furnished the Berwind-White Company during the 23
months referred to was due to the fact that that company
owned a large nimber of private cars on which it appeared
th:t wheelage was )aid and submitted the following table

MO

IRSDALE COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.

230 U. S.

311

Opinion of the Court.

showing the number and character of cars in the Clearfield
Region during those years:
1902
1903
1904
1905

Cars
Cars
Cars
Cars

placed
placed
placed
placed

Total

Commercial
Box
Total

Individual

Company
coal

System

Foreign

14,221
20,483
16,705
26,716

16,119
15,614
11,477
22,812

31,048
20,947
21,888
24,769

22,544
24,222
14,568
5,,542

11
13
12
374

78,125

66,022

98,652

66,876

410 310,085

83,943
'81,279
64,650
80,213

During the trial plaintiff admitted that there had been
no intentional discrimination against it, but contended
that its statement was made up from the books on the
basis of what it considered to be the law of the case, under
which all cars available for shipment of coal should be
counted in the distribution.
Plaintiff admitted that if the Berwind-White Company
was entitled to the use of their private cars, without
counting them against what it was entitled to under the
percentage, then the Berwind-White Company did not
get an excess of their percentage. It further admitted
that if Fuel cars of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and Fuel
cars of foreign railroads, consigned to particular mines
were not to be counted against such mines, then plaintiff
had no cause of complaint, inasmuch as it had received
its percentage of the balance or system cars.
The Circuit Court dismissed the case on the ground
that, without preliminary action by the Commission,
the court had no jurisdiction of a suit for damages alleged
to be occasioned by undue discrimination against the
plaintiff and undue preference in favor of its competitor.
The plaintiff took the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, complaining of this ruling and further assigning
error in that the court failed to enter judgment in its
favor on the special verdict.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held, one judge dissenting,
that the plaintiff had the option of taking the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

of jurisdiction by direct writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the United States, or it could take the whole case, including the matter of jurisdiction, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals. That court, thereupon, considered the whole
record, and (one judge dissenting) affirmed the judgment
of the Circuit Court on the ground that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction as a Federal court until after the Commission had passed on the reasonableness of the method
of car distribution. The case was brought here, the only
question presented by the record being whether the Circuit Court as a Federal court had jurisdiction.
The prohibitions of § 3 of the Commerce Act require
that cars shall be fairly allotted to shippers without unjust discrimination or unfair preference: But the statute
does not define what is the proper method of distribution
in case of car shortage, and at the time of the transactions
out of which this suit arose, no general rule had been
adopted by the carriers or promulgated by the Commission. As late as 1910, it was said (19 I. C. C. 387) that the
question was in a state of flux, and an examination of
the decisions in the numerous cases brought about that
time will show that it was a matter about which there
was much difference of opinion. In some cases it was
held that private cars and fuel cars of foreign railroads
consigned to particular mines, should be counted in making the distribution. Others held that such cars should
be counted, but that if the foreign cars, or those owned
by the private corporations, exceeded their percentage,
the excess might be retained by those coal companies.
This view was adopted by the Commission, which also hehd
that fuel ca rs belonging to the carrier should be counted
except where the railroad purchased the entire output of
the mine. Traer v. Chicago &c. R. R., 13 1. C. C. 451;
Iillsdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R., 19 I. C. C. 356,
372; Jacoby v. Pennsyv nia R. R., 19 I. C. C. 392; Minds
v..Penwsylvania R. R., 20 I. C. C. 52.

MORRISDALE COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

313

Opinion of the Court.

It was, however, recognized that there could be no hard
and fast rule and that circumstances might arise which
would otherwise warrant a departure so as to enable the
carrier to meet emergencies arising from a strike on its
own road, or embargoes by connecting lines which refused
to haul certain articles of merchandise in order to supply
communities with necessaries of life. Parks v. Cincinnati
&c. Ry., 10 I. C. C. 47; Thompson v. PennsylianiaR. R.,
10 I. C. C. 640.
These rulings as to the validity of a particular practice
and the facts 'that would warrant a departure from a
proper rule actually in force, are sufficient to show that
the question as to the reasonableness of a rule of car
distributionD is administrative in its character and calls
for the exercise of the powers and discretion conferred by
Congress upon the Commission. It was distinctly so
ruled in the PitcairnCase, 215 U. S. 481, and in I. C. C. v.
Illinois Central, 215 U. S. 452. Those cases involve a
consideration of the power of the Commission over the
distribution of cars and held that the courts could not by
mandamus compel it to make a rule, nor by injunction
restrain the enforcement of one it had promulgated. If
in those direct proceedings the courts could not pass upon
the question of reasonableness of a method of allotting
cars neither can it do so as an incident to an action for
damages.
In view of the decision in the A bilene, Pitcairnand Robinson Cases it is unnecessary again to discuss the statute
or do more than say that in this ease the plaintiff was not
entitled to maintain its action without producing an order
of the Commission that the rile adopted by the Pennsylvania Railroad was unreasonable.
The plaintiff, however, seeks to take the case out of the
principle of those decisions, insisting that this is a suit
for damages occasioned by a violation of the rule-and
that, therefore, without any order of the Cnommission it

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

is entitled to institute a suit for the recovery of damages
resulting from the failure to distribute cars according, to
the method established by the Railroad itself. The record,
however, does not sustain this position, for the evidence
does not show any breach of the rule or any failure to
deliver to the Morrisdale Company all of the cars to
which it was entitled under the method of allotment
in force between 1900 and 1906. On the contrary, it was
admitted at the hearing that there had been no discrimination against the plaintiff in the application of the rule,
the complaint being that the basis of allotment was unreasonable and that all cars in the district should be dis-

tributed according to the capacity of the mine without
deducting private cars, foreign fuel cars, or the carrier's
own fuel cars. Whether this should be done as a general
rule, or under the peculiar conditions prevailing on defendant's road at that time was, as we have seen, an administrative question and to b6 decided by the Commission as preliminary to the right to maintain this suit.
The Circuit Court rightly held that until this was done
it had no jurisdiction as a Federal court of the cause of
action sought to be enforced.
It is argued in the plaintiff's brief that if this view of the
law should be sustained the case should not be dismissed
but stayed until the plaintiff could apply to the Cominission and obtain a ruling on the question as to whether the
method adopted by the Pennsylvania Railroad was not,
during the years 1900 to 1906 unjustly discriminatory.

Attention is called to Southern Ry. v. Tift, 206 U. S. 428,
434, which it is said would support such a provision in
the mandate. In that case the shippers filed, on April 14,

1903, a bill to enjoin an advance in rate. The injunction
was refused and the advance went into effect. The cause
was stayed while the complainants were pressing their

application for an order from the Commission that the
rates were unreasonable. Its report was in their favor and

MORRISDALE COAL CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 U. S.

315

Opinion of'the Court.

on it the Circuit Court made an order of restitution (206
U. S. 436). But, in that case the statute of limitations
had not run when the bill was filed, when the stay order,
was granted, nor when the application was made to the
Commission; while in the present case the plaintiff was
barred of the right to apply to the Commission at the date
the suit was filed in the United States Circuit Court.
The damages which were claimed arose from a failure
to deliver cars prior to Dec. 31, 1905. The suit was brought
July 17, 1908, more than two and a half years later and
after the passage of the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.
584, 590, c. 3591, that "all complaints for the recovery
6f damages shall be filed with the Commission within
two years from the time the cause of action accrued and
not after and a petition for the enforcement of an order
shall be filed in the Circuit Court within one year from the
date of the order and not afterwards; Provided that claims
accrued prior to the passage of this act may be presented
within one year."
The provisions of this statute would prevent the modification asked for, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
Mu. JUSTICE PITNEY dissented.'
For dissenting opinion of MR. JugwTrc

PITNIiY in this case and in

A itcicell Coal & Coke Company v. PennsylniaRailroad Company, see
wite, p. 267.

