OCTOBER TERM, 19,12.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

in which jurisdiction had been invoked wholly upon diversity of citizenship, but in the course of the case there
arose a question as to the constitutionality of the ordinance which was the foundation of the plaintiff's right.
The unsuccessful party had, therefore, a right to bring
the case direct to this court, or, at its election, carry it to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. It elected the latter course.
The Circuit Court of Appeals: might have certified the
question to this court, or it might decide it along with the
other questions in the case. But from its judgment no
writ of error will lie to this court, as the Judiciary Act
of. 1891 does not contemplate two reviews, one by the
Circuit Court of Appeals and another by this court in such
cases. Robinson v. Caldwetl, 1,65 U. 8. 359; Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S.472; Macfadden v. United States,
213 U. S. 288.
For this reason the writ of error must be dismissed.

OLD COLONY TRUST COMPANY v CITY OF
OMAHA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRI('T COURT OF, THE UTNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 754.

Argued February 27, 28, 1913. Reasrgued April 10, 11, 1913.
-Decided June 16, 1913.

A municipality, being a creature of the State, derives its powers from
the laws thereof, and is within the influence of the decisions of the
State's court of last resort.
Under the laws of Nebraska, asconstrued by the highest courts of that
State, municipalities had the power in 1884 'of granting licenses to
use the streets for public businless ;'uad, in the absence of specific lint-

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

itation of duration, such licenses were in perpetuity and conveyed
rights of property within the protection of the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States.
Such grants are subject to reasonable police power of the State and
forfeitable for acts of abuse or non-user; but they cannot be taken
away or impaired arbitrarily.
Decisions of the highest court of the State relating to such matters of
local law as the construction of the constitution and statutes of the
'State and the powers of its municipalities, are controlling upon this
court, 'so long as their application involves no infraction of rights
secured by the Constitution of the United States.
In the absence of any controlling statute, this court will not give any
greater effect to the syllabus of a case decided by the highest court of
a State and reported in the official reports of that court than is given
thereto in the courts of the State.
A provision in an ordinance that the grantee of a franchise to use the
streets of a municipality may be required to remove therefrom what
it has placed therein under the franchise when necessity demands,
held, in this case, not to be an intention to limit the franchise to the
corporate existence of the grantee.
An ordinance, not based upon necessities of the municipality, requiring an electric light company to remove its poles and wires held, in
this case, to be an arbitrary impairment of the contract of the
original ordinance granting the right in perpetuity and therefore void
because unconstitutional under the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
QUwrVe what is the exact meaning of the phrase "general electric light
business" as used in an ordinance granting a franchise to a corporation for that purpose, and whether it includes distribution of electricity for power and heat.
The practical interpretation of a contract by the parties thereto for a
considerable period before a controversy arises is of great, if not controlling, influence; and this rule is applicable in Nebraska as in the
nature of estoppel.
Acquiescence by the municipality in the extension of a franchise for
electric light to distribution of electricity for power and beat evidenced, as in this case, by collection of taxes imposed on receipts
therefrom and the purchase by the city of current for power, held,
to entitle those who had advanced money on the security of the
franchise to insist upon the recognition and continuation of the right
of the corporation to supply electricity for power and heat as well
as light; and an ordinance requiring the corporation to discontinue

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant

230 U. S.

such distribution of heat and power is void under the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
A judgment. against a corporation construing its franchise is not res
judicataas against a mortgagee who was not a party to the suit and
whose rights were acquired prior to the commencement of the suit
in which the judgment was entered.

THE facts, which involve the construction of ordinances
of -the city of Omaha, Nebraska, granting franchises for
distribution of electric current, the extent of the rights
thereunder and the effect of subsequent ordinances thereon
and the constitutionality of the latter under: the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. William D. McHugh for appellant:
The ordinance in question granted to the New Omaha
Thomson-Houston Electric Light Co. or assigns, a right of
way over the streets of the city of Omaha for the purposes
named "in perpetuity." For views as to the nature of the
right "in perpetuity," see Am. Water Works Co. v. State,
46 Nebraska, 194; Potwin Place v. Topeka Ry. Co., 51
Kansas, 609; Fellows v. Los Angeles, 151 California, 52;
Nebraska Tel. Co. v. City of Fremont, 72 Nebraska, 25;
New Orleans Gas Co. v. LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650;
State v. Neb. Tel. Co., 17 Nebraska, 126; State v. S. C. &
P. R. R: Co., 7 Nebraska, 374.
The circumstances attending the passage of the ordinance in question negative the idea that the grant of
the right of way was for a limited term.
The provision in the ordinance in question to the effect
that whenever the city council shall, by ordinance, declare the necessity of removing from the public streets
-of the city of Omaha, the telegraph, telephone or electric
poles, the grantee company shall, within sixty days from
th passage of the ordinance, remove its poles from such
streets and alleys, was not a reservation of a power to

OLD COLONY TRUST CO., v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

terminate at will the grant of the right of way. New
Orleans v. Great So. Tel. Co., 40 La. Ann. 41,; Louisville v.
Cumberland Tel. Co., 224 U. S. 649; Northwestern Tel. Co.
v. Minneapolis, 81 Minnesota, 140.
. A public service corporation may accept a grant of a
right of way for a period longer than its corporate existence.
Detroit v. Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368.
As the ordinance in question granted a right of way
in terms which expressly recognize the right of assignment,
and without limitation as to time and with no reservation
of power in the city to alter or revoke the same, under
general principles of law the grant of the right of way to the
company or assigns was in perpetuity. Blair v. Chicago,
201 U. S. 400; Morristown v. East Tenn. Tel. Co., 115
Fed. Rep. 304; Citizens' Ry. Co. v. Detroit Ry. Co., 171
U. S. 48; Detroit v. Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368;
People v. O'Brien, 11 N. Y. 1; Turnpike Co. v. Illinois,
96 U. S. 63-; Louisville v.' Cumberland Tel. Co., 224 U. S.
649.
It is the settled law of Nebraska, evidenced by a series
of decisions by the Supreme Court of that State, that an
ordinance such as the one in question grants to the company named, on acceptance, a right of way in perpetuity,
and that cities in Nebraska have power to make such
grants in perpetuity. Plattsmouth v. Nebraska Tel. Co.,
80 Nebraska, 460; Nebraska Tel. Co. v. Fremont, 72
Nebraska, 25; Sharp v. South Omaha, 53 Nebraska, 700;
State v. Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 80 Nebraska, 357; State v.
Lincoln Street Ry. Co., 80 Nebraska, 333.
All departments of the State have accepted this rule
of law.
The charter powers of the city of Omaha, in 1884,
were as broad as were the charter powers of those cities
which the Supreme Court of Nebraska held were authorized to grant such a right, of way in perpetuity.
The bondholders represented by complainant, purchased

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

their bonds with knowledge of and in reliance upon the
law of Nebraska as announced by its Supreme Court,
to the effect that the city of Omaha had, under its charter,
authority to grant the right of way in perpetuity, and that
by such ordinance there was granted such a right of way
in perpetuity.
The law of the State of Nebraska as declared by its
Supreme Court construing the powers of cities under the
statutes of that State and construing the effect of ordinanIces passed by such cities pursuant to such charter
authority, entered into and became part of the contract
evidenced by the ordinance in question and its acceptance.
Brine v. Ins. Co., 96'U. S. 634; Edwards v. Kearzey, 96
U. S. 595; Gulf and Ship Island R'd Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S.
71.
Where, upon the faith of a state decision affirming the
validity of contracts made or bonds issued under a statute,
other contracts have been made or bonds issued under
similar statutes, neither the legislature nor the judiciary
of a State can modify the law so as to impair the obligation of the contract previously made. Loeb v. Columbia
Yownship, 179 U. S. 472; Taylor v. Ypsilanti 105 U. S. 71;
Wade v. Travis Co., 174 U. S. 499; Wilkes County v. Coler,
180 U. S.506.
The distribution and sale of electric energy to be utilized
for power and heat purposes, is included within the expression "general electric light business" for the transaction of which the right of way was granted.
This is evidenced by the literature, scientifc and popular,
showing the state of the art of electric lighting in 1884.
The city of Omaha and the company operating the
plant under the 'rdinance in question have, for more than
twenty years, in carrying out the provisions of the ordinance, uniformly placed a practical construction upon
the said ordinance, interpreting the same to mean that
the company had the right thereunder to distribute elec-

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U.S.

Argument for Appellee.

tric energy for power and heat purposes. Atty. Gen., v.
Drummond, 1 Dru. & Wall. 353; Brown v. United States,
113 U. S. 570; Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50; Clark's
Turnpike Co. v. Commonwealth, 96 Kentucky, 525;
Columbia v. Gallagher, 124 U. S. 510; Insurance Co. v.
Dutcher, 95 U. S. 269; New York v. Starin, 106 N. Y. 1;
Mobile v. Louisville & N. R. R. Co., 84 Alabama, 115;
Gas Light Co. v. St. Louis, 46 Missouri, 121; School District
v. Estes, 13 Nebraska, 53 ; State v. Cass Co., 60 Nebraska,
566; United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 180; United States
v. Moore, 95 U. S. 763; United States v. Burlington R. R.
Co., 98 U. S. 341.
The city of Omaha, by its legislation and acts during
twenty years, has become and is. estopped to deny the
right of the colnpany operating the plant, to distribute
through its system, electric current for power and heat
purposes as and to the extent it was doing when the
resolution complained of was passed. Omaha St. Ry. Co.
v. Omaha, 90 Nebraska, 6; State v. Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 80
Nebraska, 357; State v. Lincoln Street Ry.Co., 80 Nebraska,
333.
The decision in the case brought by the Omaha Electric
Light and Power Company cannot affect the decision in
this cause, since neither the bondholders nor their trustee
'were parties to that litigation. Keokuk & Western Rd. v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 301; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,
76 Fed.:Rep. 296.
Mr. Benjamin S. Baker, with whom Mr. William C.
Lambert, Mr. John A. Rine and Mr. L. J. TePoel, were
on the brief, for appellee:
* Appellant has not pleaded or proved sufficient to entitle
it to maintain the action.
Ordinance 826 was not a perpetual grant to the grantee.
Omaha Electric Light Co. v. Omaha, 179 Fed. Rep. 455.
No necessity existed for a perpetual grant. Blair v. Chi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Argument for Appellee.

230 U. S,

cago, 201 U. S. 400, 505; Railroad Co. V. Logansport, 114
Fed. Rep. 688; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Canal 'Commissioners, 21 Pa. St. 9, 22; Rock Island v. Central Telephone Co., 132 Ill. App. 248; People v. Central Telephone
Co., 232 Illinois, 260; People v. Chicago Tel. Co., 220
Illinois, 238; Snell v. Chicago Railroad Co., 236 Illinois,
413; Telephone Co. v. Telephone Co., 118 Kentucky, 277;
Louisville Trust Co. v. Commonwealth, 76 Fed. Rep.
296.
The municipal authorities were without power to make
a perpetual grant. Section 16, Art. 1, Const. Nebraska;
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 227; Birmingham v.
Railway, 99 Alabama, 464; Mobile v. Railroad Co., 84
Alabama, 115; McQuillan Mun. Ord., § 200; San Antonio
Traction Co. v. Altgeldt, 200 U. S. 304.
The legislature of the State had not authorized the
municipal authorities to make a perpetual grant. Section
15, Chap. 10, Laws Nebraska 1883, p. 89; Subd. 8, § 115,
.Chap. 10, Laws Nebraska, p. 90; Ottawa v. B. S. Care!,
108 U. S. 112; Rhinehart v. Redfield, 93 App. Div. (N. Y.)
410; Jackson R. R. Co. v. Interstate Railroad Co., 24 Fed.
Rep. 306; Barnett v. Dennison, 145 U. S. 135; Railroad v.
Logansport, 114 Fed. Rep. 688; Artesian Water Co. v. Boise
City, 123 Fed. Rep. 232; Water Co. v. Hutchinson, 207 U. Si
385; People's R. R. Co. v. Memphis R. R. Co., 10 Wall. 38;
Water Co. v. Preeport, 180 U. S. 587; Water Co. v. Danville,
180 U. S. 619; Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624; Water
Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434; Home Telephone Co. v.
Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265; Marshall v. Wyandotte Gas
Co., 127 Pac. Rep. 639; Woodland v. Leach, 127 Pac. Rep.
1040.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska has not decided that
city authorities with charter powers similar to those of
Omaha at the time are vested with authority to make
a perpetual grant. Brown v. Holliday, 34 Nebraska, 232;
Nebraska Telepho~ie Co. v. Fremont, 72 Nebraska, 25;

O)
230 U. S.

()'OLONY
TRUST C(). v. OM{A11A.
Argument for Appellee.

Plattsmouth v. Telephone Ca, 80 Nebraska, 460; Sharp v.
South Omaha, 53 Nebraska, 700; State v. Lincoln Street
Railway Co., 80 Nebraska, 333; State v. Citizens' Street
Railway Co., 80 Nebraska, 357.
The life of the grant was limited by the life of the
grantee. Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400,,505; Detroit v.
Citizens' Railway Co., 184 U. S. 388, 395; St. Louis v.
Laclede Gas Light Co., 102 Missouri, 472; Turnpike Co.
v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63; ElectricLight Co. v. Wyandotte, 126
Michigan, 43; Rock Island v. Central Telephone Co., 132
Ill. App. 248; Virginia Road Co. v. People, 22 Colorado,
429; People v. Central Tel. Co., 232 Illinois, 260; People v.
Chicago Telephone Co., 220 Illinois, 238; Snell v. Chicago,
133 Illinois, 413; Venner v. Chicago City R. Co., 236
Illinois, 349; Telephone Co. v. Telephone Co., 118 Kentucky,
277;Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296;
Lake Roland Elevated R. Co. v. Baltimore, 77 Maryland,
352; Louisville v. Cunberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S.
649.
The reservation in the grant should control against the
claim of perpetuity. Telephone Co. v. Richmond, 44
C., C. A. 147; Gas Light Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258;
Stein v. Bienville Water Co., 141 U. S. 67; Bridge Co. v.
United States, 105 U. S. 470.
Ordinance 826 did not authorize its grantee to distribute current for power.
The city of Omaha has never practically or otherwise
construed the grant to mean or to authorize the distribu-,
tion of current for power. Electric Co. v. Cleveland, 204
U. S.116; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11
Peters, 496; People v. Deehan, 153 N. Y. 528; Citizens' Fire
Ins. Co. v. Doll, 35 Maryland, 89; Railroad Co. v. Trimble,
10 Wall. 367; Morris v. Thomas, 57 Indiana, 316; State v.
Cass County, 60 Nebraska, 66; School Districtv. Estes, 13
Nebraska, 52; Hale v. Shehan, 52 Nebraska, 184; Water Co.
v. Hutchinson, 207 U. S. 385; Abbott, Municipal Corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the'Court.

230 U. S.

tions, § 907; Chicago Railway Co. v. Elliot, 88 Fed. Rep.
941; Scranton Electric Co.'s Appeal, 122 Pa. St. 154, 15
Atl. Rep. 446.
The city of Omaha has never estopped itself to deny the
company the right to distribute current for power. Crary
v. Dye, 208 U. 8. 515; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,
76 Fed. Rep. 296; Detroitv. City Railway Co., 56 Fed. Rep.
867; Mobile v. Sullivan Timber Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 298;
Philadelphia Mortgage Co. v. Omaha, 63 Nebraska, 280;
Brant v. Virginia Coal Co., 93 U. S. 326; 1 Story, Equity,
391; State v. Lincoln Railway Co., 80 Nebraska, 333;
State v. Citizens' Railway Co., 80 Nebraska, 357; Omaha
Railway Co. v: Omaha, 90 Nebraska, 6.
Appellant is concluded by the adjudication in
the case
of Omaha Electric Light and Power Co. v. Omaha. Keokuk
Western R. R. Co. v. Missouri,' 152 U. S. 313;'Louisville
Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296; Mumma v.
Potomac Co., 8 Peters, 102; Chicago Life Ins. Co. v.
Needles, 113 U. S. 574; New Orleans Water Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336; Duluth v. Gas and Water Co., 45
Minnesota, 210; Minneapolis v. Street Railway Co., 215
U. S. 417; Calder v. People, 218 U. S. 591; S. C., 115
Michigan, 724.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion
of the court.
The principal questions presented by this suit are, first,
whether the Omaha Electric Light and Power Company,
which will be spoken of as the Electric Company, has a
subsisting franchise to occupy and use the streets, alleys
and public grounds of the city of Omaha, Nebraska, in the
distribution of electric current, and, second, whether, if so,
the franchise is limited to the distribution of such current
for lighting purposes or includes its distribution for power
and heating purposes. If there be a franchise it rests

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

primarily upon the- following ordinance adopted by the
council of the city in December, 1884:
"The New Omaha-Thompson-Houston Electric Light
Company or assigns, is hereby granted right of way for
erection and maintenance of poles and wires with all the
appurtenances thereto, for the purpose of transacting a
general Electric Light business, through, upon and over
the streets, alleys and public grounds of the City of
Omaha, Neb., under such reasonable regulations as may
be provided by ordinance: Provided, That said company
shall at all times, when so requested by the ity authorities,
permit their poles and fixtures to be used for the purpose
of placing and maintaining thereon any wires that may be
necessary for the use of the Police or Fire Department of
the city; Iand further provided, such poles and wires shall
be erected so as not to interfere with ordinary travel
through such streets and alleys; and provided, that whenever it shall be necessary for any person to move along or
across any of said streets or alleys any vehicle or structure
of such height or size as to interfere with any poles or wires
so erected, the company using and operating such poles
and wires shall, upon receiving twelve hours' notice,
thereof; temporarily remove such poles and wires from
such place as must necessarily be crossed by such vehicle
or structure; and I rovided further that whenever the city
council shall by ordinance declare the necessity of removing from the public streets or alleys of the City of
Omaha, the telegraph, telephone or electric poles, or
wires thereon constructed or existing, said company shall,
within sixty days from the passage of such ordinance,
remove all poles and wires from said streets and alleys by
it constructed, used or operated."
The Thompson Company, to which the grant was made,
was not then incorporated, but was subsequently incorporated under the laws of Nebraska for a term which was
to expire September 26, 1905. It accept.ed the grant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

constructed and put into operation a central generating
station and an extensive distributing system, and thereby
placed itself in a position to supply electric current to
those desiring to use it. At first the current was used
almost exclusively for lighting purposes, but it came gradually to be used for power and heat, and in a few years
the Thompson Company held itself out as distributing
current for all three purposes. The generating plant was,
,nlarged and improved from time to time, and the distributing system extended and adjusted, to meet the increasing demand for current for power and heat as well as
for light. In 1903 the entire plant and all rights under
the ordinance were transferred by the Thompson Company
to the Electric Company, and the business established
by the former has since been conducted in increasing
volume by the latter. In 1891 the gross earnings from
current for lighting purposes was $104,646.63 and for
power and heat $4,237.67. In '1903 these figures had
increased to $261,421.89 and $50,390.11, respectively, and
in 1908 to $563,447.57 and $130,537.72. By a series
of ordinances, beginning in 1892, the city regulated in
material ways the business of the two companies, each in
turn, in distributing current for the three purposes, and by
ordinances adopted in 1902 and 1904 the city required
all their wires within designated districts, whether the
current was used for light or for power or heat, to be
placed in underground conduits, the ordinances being duly
obeyed at a cost of $479,215.00. After March 4, 1902,
the two companies, each in turn, were required to pay,
and did pay, to the city three per cent. of the gross earnings from their business, including the receipts from the
use of current for power and heat. The city also became
and remained a purchaser of current in substantial quaitities, to be used for power purposes.
In these and various other ways disclosed by the'record
the city acquiesced in, encouraged and directly sanctioned

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the action of the two companies in successively equipping
and adjusting the electric plant, at great expense, for the
distribution of current for power and heat, knowing that
they were engaging therein under a claim of right under the
ordinance of 1884. Fifteen circuits were established to
supply the current for those purposes exclusively. Prior to
May 26, 1908, no objection whatever was made by the city
to the use of the streets, alleys and public grounds for those
purposes, but, on the contrary, it was satisfied and content
therewith. On that day the city council, to use the words
of the city's answer, "elected to terminate" that use and
passed the following resolution, which was approved by
the mayor:
"Resolved by the City Council of the City of Omaha,
the Mayor concurring, that the City Electrician be and
he is hereby ordered and directed to disconnect, or cause
Io be disconnected on or before July 1st, 1908, all wires
leading from the conduits or poles of the Omaha Electric
Light and Power Company transmitting electricity to
private persons or premises to be used for heat or power;
and to take such steps as may be necessary to prevent
the said Omaha Electric Light and Power Company
from furnishing or transmitting from the conduits or
wires electricity to private persons or premises for heat
oi power purposes,"

This suit is prosecuted by the Old Colony Trust Company, a Massachusetts corporation, against the city of
Omaha, to enjoin the enforcement of that resolution;
The trust company is the trustee in a mortgage executed
.in 1903 by the Electric Company upon all of its property,
including its rights under the ordinance of 1884, to secure
the payment of upwards of $2,000,000 of bonds issued by,
it in 1903 and 1904. The claim of the trust company,
as set forth in the bill, is that the resolution of 1908 is at
law of the State impairing the obligation of the contract
resulting from the ordinance of 1884 and the actim of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

parties in interest thereunder, on the faith of which
contract the bonds were purchased by their several holders,
and that the resolution is therefore void, because repugnant to § 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United
States.
The first question to 'be considered is, whether the
privilege or franchise granted by the ordinance of 1884
is still subsisting, because if it has expired it will not be
necessary to inquire whether it and the action of the parties thereunder resulted in any contractual rights respecting the use of the streets, of the city in the distribution of
current for power and heating purposes.
What was the life or duration of the privilege granted
by the ordinance? Was it in perpetuity or for the corporate existence of the grantee? There is no claim, nor
could there reasonably be, that it was during the pleasure
of the city, or revocable at will. The trust company contends that it was a grant in perpetuity, and the city
that it was for the corporate existence of the grantee.
While the arguments have taken a wide range, it is of
first importance to give attention to the statutes and
decisions of Nebraska, because the city, being a creature
of that State, derives its powers from the laws thereof
and is necessarily within the influence of the decisions of
the State's court of last resort.
By the charter of the city in force at the time, the city
council was charged with "the care, management, and control of the city" and was given power "to provide for the
.
lighting of streets" and "to care for and control
streets, avenues, parks, and squares within the city."
Act of February 21, 1883, Laws 1883, p. 89, c. 10, § 15,
subdivs. 8, 24.
In Sharp v. South Omaha, 53 Nebraska, 700, 705, the
Supreme Court of the State had occasion to consider
similar charter provisions and to determine whether and
for what time they authorized the city council to grant

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U, S.

Opinion of the Court.

a franchise to use the streets for supplying gas to the
people of the city. It was held that there was "an ample
grant of power, unqualified as to persons, method or time,
to regulate the laying down of mains, the sale and use of
gas, and the rate to be charged therefor."
In Nebraska Telephone Co. v. Freemont, 72 Nebraska, 25,
29, there was involved a grant by the city council, under
like charter provisions, to the Freemont Telephone Company, an unincorporated association, of the right to erect
and maintain telephone poles and wires in the streets of
the city, the ordinance being silent as to the life of the
grant. The court said: "By the terms of the ordinance,
there was a grant to the association, in perpetuity, of a
right of way or easement over all its public ways, without
restriction or limitation."
State ex rel. v. Lincoln Street Railway Co., 80 Nebraska,
333, 343, involved the construction of an act (February 15,
1877, Laws 1877, p. 135) relating to the acquisition of a
street franchise for a street railroad company. The act
provided for the submission to the electors of the simple
question whether the grant should be made through
particular streets, which were required to be designated in
the articles of incorporation and in the notice of the election, and also provided that if the consent of the electors
was given, the railroad company could proceed with the
construction and operation, "subject to such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance of such
city." The act said nothing about the duration of the
right. The court said: "This'consent of the electors,
when legally given to a legal proposition submitted to
them, constitutes, in our view, a grant of a right of way
on and over the streets named in the articles of incorporation and in the notice for the election, and confers upon,
the railway company an easement in the street which is
irrevocable after the company has, within a reasonable
time, acted upon the permission given and conistructed
VOL. CCXXX-S

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

its lines of road." To the, same effect is State ex rel v.
Citizens Street Railway Co., 80 Nebraska, 357, 360.
In Plattsmnouth v. Nebraska Telephone Co., 80, Nebraska,
460, 466, there was brought in question the right of a
telephone company under an ordinance granting to it,
its successors and assigns, the right of way for the erection
and maintenance of poles and wires through the streets,
alleys and public grounds of the city. The provisions of
the city charter were substantially like tLhse here. The
power of the city to grant the right, or to make it more
than a right revocable at will, was challenged, but the
court denied both branches of the contention, saying:
"Under the general power given to the plaintiff [the
cityl by its charter and the general control which it exercises over the streets and public grounds of the city, its
right to extend to the defendant the privilege of occupying
its streets and public grounds cannot be questioned,"
citing Nebraska Telephone Co. v. Freemont, supra. The
city had passed an ordinance, not grounded upon any
matter of necessity, requiring the poles and wires to be
removed from some of the streets, and the court pronounced that ordinance invalid.
But while these decisions take an uniform view of the
power of the cities of the State and of the effect of their
action in cases such as this, and show that the grant made
by the ordinance of 1884 must be regarded as in perpetuity, they also show that such grants are deemed and held
by that court to be ever subject to the full exertion of the
police power of the State in respect of the rates to be
charged, the mode of conducting the business, and the
character and quality of the service rendered. And it is
further held that the public nature of the grant explains
and justifies it, and that it is forfeitable for acts of abuse,
abandonment or nonuser, but cannot be taken away or
impaired arbitrarily.
But it is said that this grant cannot be held to be in

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

perpetuity, because to do so is to bring it in conflict with
§ 16 of art. 1 of the state constitution, which declares that
"no law making any irrevocable grant of special privileges
or immunities shall be passed," and this contention is
made although it is conceded, as it must be, that the grant
is not exclusive and does not prevent the city from making
.like grants to others or from establishing and operating a
competing municipal, plant. The contention is answered
and shown to be untenable by the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State in Plattsmouth v. Nebraska Telephone
Co., supra, from which we excerpt the following (p. 464):
"The argument upon which it attempts to maintain the
invalidity of the statute [ordinance] is as follows: Section 15, art. III of our constitution, prohibits the legislature
fom passing local or special laws granting to any corporation, aissociation or individual any special or exclusive
privilege, immunity or franchise whatever; and it is said
that the legislature cannot-delegate to a municipality a
power which it cannot itself exercise. It is claimed that
the ordinance in question is an attempt to grant to the
defendant a special privilege or franchise, and that this
is beyond the power of the municipal authorities. If we
should concede (which we do not) that a general law,
granting to cities and towns the powers which are usually
found in their charters, did not confer upon such municilpalities the power to pass and enforce special ordinances
suited to their local conditions, still the ordinance in question is not subject to the criticism made upon it. A special
privilege in constitutional law is a right, power, franchise,
immunity or privilege granted to, or vested in, a person
or class of persons to the exclusion of others and in derogation of common right.

.

.

Ordinance No. 91 does

not attempt to confer upon the defendant any exclusive
right or franchise, and leaves it open for the city, at any
time, to extend to other coinpsdnies or c(orr)orlfioi ,is
ihc
samc privileges awarded to the dlcfcndant.. The crintcll-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

tion, therefore, that ordinance No. 91 is void and confers
no right upon the defendant cannot be sustained."
To the state decisions here cited, counsel for the city
interposes the objection that they are not well grounded
and that some of them go beyond what is expressed in the
syllabus. We need not say more of the first branch of the
objection than that as the decisions relate to matters of
local law, namely, the construction of the state constitution and statutes and the powers of local municipal
corporations, they must be regarded by us as controlling,
When their application involves no infraction of any right
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United
States. Such an infraction is not suggested, nor could
it reasonably be. The other branch of the objection is
not based upon any statute or rule of court in Nebraska,
giving controlling effect to the syllabus. At most it rests
upon a statement in Holliday v. Brown, 34 Nebraska,
232, respecting "an unwritten rule" to that effect, but
what was said upon the subject in that case has been so
pointedly criticised and so far restrained in Williams v.
Miles, 68 Nebraska, 463, 479, that it is not controlling.
Of course, it ought not to be given greater effect here than
in the courts of the State.
We have seen that the ordinance of 1884 contained the
following reservation or qualification: "That whenever
the city council shall by ordinance declare the necessity
of removing from the public streets or alleys of the City
of Omaha the telegraph, telephone or electric poles, or
wires thereon constructed or existing, said company shall,
within sixty days from the passage of such ordinance,
remove all poles and wires from said streets and alleys by
it constructed, used or operated." It is claimed that this
militates against the theory that the grant was in perpetuity and indicates, notwithstanding the state decisions before cited, that it was intended to endure only during
the corporate existence of the grantee. We think the

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

suggestion is without force and that the reservation or
qualification has no bearing upon the question whether
the franchise was perpetual or for the life of the grantee.
The term for which it was granted depends upon other
considerations, for the reservation or qualification applies
with equal force whether the term be one, or the other.
What is meant undoubtedly is that whenever there is
public necessity for removing the poles and wires from
the streets and alleys the council shall have power by
ordinance to require that that be done. It is not claimed
that the ordinanceof 1908 was grounded upon any such
necessity. The existence of one is not recited in the
ordinance, is not alleged in the city's answer, and is not
shown by the evidence. In this aspect, then, the case is
like that in Plattsmouth v. Nebraska Telephone Co., supra,
where the Supreme Court of the State said (p. 466): "That
the rights of the defendant in the streets of the city must
yield to public necessity

.

.

.

is beyond question or

dispute; but, having acquired a right in the streets, and
having made expenditures on the strength of the grant,
extended by the city, the authorities are quite uniform
that this right cannot be taken away in an arbitrary
manner and without reasonable cause."
Concluding, as we do, that the franchise has not, expired but is still subsisting, we come to the question
whether it is limited to the distribution of electric current,
for lighting purposes or includes its distribution for power
and heat.
This question has been elaborately discussed at the bar
and in the briefs, and the record contains a large volume
of evidence taken for the purpose of shedding light, as
is said, upon what commonly was understood, when the
ordinance was adopted, as "a general electric light business," that being the phrase used to designate the purpose for which the street franchise was granted, We (10
not find it necessary to enter upon an original consider-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

ation of the meaning of that phrase or of the rules which
ordinarily would be applicable in interpreting it.
Generally speaking, the practical interpretation of a
contract by the parties to it for any considerable period of
time before it comes to be the subject of controversy is
deemed of great, if not controlling, influence. Chicago v.
Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50, 54; Insurance Co. v. Dutcher, 95
U. 4. 269, 273; District of Columbia v. Gallaher, 124 U. S.
505, 510; School Districtv. Estes, 13 Nebraska, 52; State cx
rel. v. Covinnssionersof Gass County, 60 Nebraska, 566,572.
Although not strictly such, this rule is sometimes treated
as a branch of the law of estoppel. Whether in a case
permitting the exercise of an independent judgment we
should apply it to franchise contracts such as the one here,
we need not consider. In Nebraska, according tb the
settled course :of decision in that jurisdiction, the rule is
applicable to them.
In State ex rel. v. Lincoln Street Railway Co., supra,
there was involved the right of a street car company to
use the streets of the city under a franchise irregularly
obtained twenty years before. The irregularity consisted
in the submission to the electors, under the statute before
mentioned, of a blanket proposition covering all the
streets instead of one specifying particular streets and
the termini of the proposed lines. But, notwithstanding
the irregularity, the railroad company, after a favorable
vote upon the blanket proposition, proceeded at great expense and with the acquiescence of all concerned to the
construction and operation of the road
through several
streets of the city, and continued thereafter in its operation without objection until the commencement of the
suit, which was a proceeding in quo warranto in the name
of the State, brought on the relation of a local officer.
Although pronouncing the election irregular and holding
that no right would have been acquired had the objection
been seasonably made, the court said:

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(p. 346) "So far as these lines have been constructed
we think the defendant may claim an easement over the
streets occupied, but the blanket license under which the
defendant claims the right td- extend its lines or to go
upon other streets must be denied.
"As to the constructed lines, it would be manifestly
unjust, not only to the defendant, but to the holders of
its securities, to now oust it of rights and privileges which
it and those through whom it takes title have been claiming
and exercising for years with knowledge and acquiescence
on the part of the state. The state, like individuals, may
be estopped by its act, conduct, silence and acquiescence."
(p. 351) "Our conclusion is that the Lincoln Traction
Company is the owner of the constructed lines of street
railway of which it is now in possession, and that it has
right and authority to maintain and operate the same,
that its purchase of the lines formerly owned by the
Lincoln Street Railway Company does not invest it with
.right or power to extend its lines, or to take possession of
streets, or parts of streets, not now occupied by its completed lines, and that such extensions cannot be made,
except by proceeding as required by law to obtain an
additional franchise for that purpose and the consent of
the electors of the city to such extensions as it may desire
to make and such new lines as it may propose to construct."
State ex rel. v. Citizens Street Railway Co., supra, was
a similar case, in which the court said:
(p. 361) "The manner in which the question of the
consent of the electors of the city was submitted was
clearly irregular, and the affirmative vote cast thereon
just as clearly conferred no power upon the railway
companies to use the streets of the city beyond the tfine
when that right should )be questioned by some )ropter
authority. But we are not prepared to say tha i, where
the companies acted in good faith and expended their

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court..

230 U. S.

money in the construction of lines under a supposed right
to occupy the streets, and this right was not questioned
until the bringing of the present action, they or those
claiming under them should be ousted from the possession
of such streets as are now occupied by their lines, and
their property rendered worthless. Under the circumstances of this case, we do not think it would be a wholesome public policy to hold that, because of the irregularity
which occurred in granting the right which the people
had power to confer, such irregularity renders all proceedings under the vote void and of no effect.
(p. 362) "Upon the record before us, we are of opinion
that the Citizens Street Railway Company is entitled
to the use of the streets now occupied by it for street
railway purposes so far as its lines are completed and in
operation, that it has no right to extend its lines without
further authority from the electors of the city."
The case of Omaha & Council Bluffs Street Railway Co.
v. City of Omaha, 90 Nebraska, 6, decided in 1911, before
the commencement of the present suit, is directly in
point. It was a suit by the street railway company to
enjoin the city 'from the enforcement of a paragraph
or part of the resolution of 1908 which is here in controversy, the difference between the two paragraphs being
that the first was directed against the Electric Company
and required it to cease using the streets of the city in
the transmission of electricity for power and heat, while
the second paragraph was directed against the street
railway company and required it to cease using the streets'
in the tran.-mission of current for light, power and heat.
The two cases are alike in all material respects, save
that the street railway company had been for years and
was furnishing electric current for light, power and heat
as an incident to the use of electrical energy as a motive power in propelling its cars, and also that that coipany's incidental business had not been and was not as

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extensive as that of the Electric Company. The suit
was begun in a local court, which on final hearing granted
a perpetual injunction against the enforcement of the
resolution. The Supreme Court affirmed the decision
below, subject only to a modification whereby the injunction would expire on the termination of the street
railway company's street franchise, which was for a
limited term of years. After reciting the facts the Supreme Court said (p. 13):
"We are therefore of opinion that the general finding
of the district court in favor of the plaintiff and interveners was right, and should be adQpted by this court.
With this view of the case, we are not required to determine the question of the incidental powers of the street
railway company. It is sufficient to say that the company supposed that it had the power under its charter
to engage in the business of which the defendants now
complain, and the city by its officers and agents assumed
that it had such power, and by its acts not only permitted,
but induced, the plaintiff to expend large sums of money,
acquire valuable property, and enter into contract relations with the interveners and others to carry on that
business. It follows that it would now be unjust and
inequitable to permit the city to destroy plaintiff's property and business, which it has thus fostered and encouraged, without compensation, and also deprive the interveners of their contractual rights therein."
Then, after referring to and citing several cases, the
court further said: "This is a well recognized rule of
equity. . . . We are of opinion that the facts of this
case bring the defendants within the rule of State v. Lincoln
Street R. Co., supra."
In view of the facts in the present case, as before recited,
these decisions of the Supreme Court of the S.tate are
conclusive upon the question of the right of the Trust
Company to have the distribution of electric current for

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

2.30 U. S.

power and heat treated as included within the franchise
contract of 1884 while it continues in force. In other

words, the Trust Company is entitled to insist upon a
recognition and continuation, subject to all the qualifications inhering in the franchise, -of all the rights conferred by the franchise ordinance as the same was interpreted in an actual practice by the Electric Company
and the City prior to the resolution of 1908. But neither
the Trust Company nor the Electric Company is entitled
to make that construction a basis for enlarging or extending those rights, against the will of the City, or for enlarging or extending the purposes for which electric current may, through the use of the streets, be transmitted
and supplied under the protection of the franchise.
A prior suit by the Electric Compapy against the City,
largely but not entirely like the present, resulted in a
decree against the Electric Company. The City now
takes the position that that decree is conclusive upon the
Trust Company as mortgagee. But the law is otherwise.
The Trust Company's rights, and those of the bondholders
whom it represents, were not acquired during or since
that suit but long prior thereto, and the Trust Company
was not a party to it. This being so, the Trust Company
is free to maintain the present suit, unembarrassed by
the decree in the other. Keokuk & Western Railroad Co.
v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301, 313; Louisville Trust Co. v.
Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296.
The decree is reversed, and the cause is remanded to
the District Court with a direction to enter a decree against
the enforcement of the resolution of 1908, in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed.
Alit. JUSTIcE H[OLMES took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

