EX'PARTE AM. STEEL BARREL (XY.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

was dynamited after theriver had subsided for the purpose of allowing thewater to flow off, which had accunulated in the basin created by the remaining line of old levee
along the rive' front and the line of the new levee. We do
not stop, however, to further cQnsider the subject, since
whatever view be taken of Ithe finding, the fact as to the
use of dynamite would not in law amount to a taking by
t he United States, because in any.event the mere act, to
meet an emergency, of the officer, conceding, under the
circumstances stated, that it was a wrongful act, cannot
be held to be the act of the United States, and therefore
affords no ground in any event for holding that the United
Stat6s had taken the property for public use.
It follows from what we have.saidrthatthe judgment below
in favor of the United States in: No.6718 must be affirmed,
and the judgment against the United States in No. 719
must be and it is reversed. And it is so ordered.

EX PARTE AMERICAN STEEL BARRE L CO.
AND SEAMAN.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND RULE.
No. 14, Original.

Argued April 21, 1913-Decided. June .16, 1913.

The proceeding to retire for personal- bias or prejudice a trial judge of
a United States court fron further hearing a case of which he has
jurisdiction had its origin in the new Judicial Code, § 21,' and is only
applicable in rare instances in which not merely adverse, but biased
and prejudiced, rulifigs are shown and facts and reasons given.
Section 21 of tho Judicial Code is not intended as a means for a discontenoted litigant ousting a judge because of adverse rulings, or as
a method of paralyzing the action of a judge wio has heard the case
by disqualiffying him betweei thehearing and the determination of
tife matter heard.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Quere and not decided whether under § 21, Judicial Code, any affidavit
of bias and prejudice is sufficient or whether the judge can pass upon
its sufficiency.
The authority of a judge, whose attempted designation under §§ 14
and 21 of the New Judicial Code is beyond the judicial power of the
senior circuit judge, may be excepted to; and any order or decree
made by him while acting under such designation may be review(d
in due' course of law.
The writ of mandamus will be granted by this court only when it is
clear and indisputable that there is no other legal remedy.
Where a senior circuit judge in designating under § 14 of the Judicial
Code a judge to act in place of one retired under § 21 of the Judicial
Code acts. in the exercise of his legitimate jurisdiction, this court
cannot correct a mistake, if he makes one, by the writ of mandamus.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 21 of the
Judicial Code of 1911 and, the jurisdiction of this -court to
issue writs of mandamus, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. Aldis B. Browne,
Mr. Louis 0. Van Doren and Mr. G. Murray Hulbert were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John A. Garver, with whom Mr. Edwin T. Rice and

Mr. Charles A. Riegelman were on the brief, for respondents.

Mn. JUsTIcE- LuRrON delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a proceeding for a rule on the Hon. Thos. I. Chatfield, District Judge of the United States for the Eastern
District of New Ydrk, the Hon. Julius Mayer, District
Judge for the Southern District of New York, and the
Hon. E. Henry Lacombe, Senior Circuit Judge for the
Second Judicial Circiiit of the United States, to show cause
why a writ of mandamus shall not be issued commanding
the Hon. Thos. I. Chatfield to resume jurisdiction and

EX PARTE AMN.
230 U. S,

Opiion

ST1EL BARREl, (O.
of the Court.

proceed to hear and determine all matters which may
arise or have arisen in a certain proceeding pending in the
said District Court for the Eastern District of New York
wherein the Iron Clad Manufacturing Company has been
adjudicated a bankrupt; and directing the vacation of an
order made in said case by the Hon. E. Henry Lacombe,
as Senior Circuit Judge, on April 2, 1912, designating and
appointing the said Judge Mayer, District Judge to hear
and exercise in the F istern District of New York, the same
powers that are now vested in the District Judges of said
District, or either of them, "and quashing and setting
aside all proceedings 'in said matter of Iron Clad Manufacturing Co., Bankrupt, had before said Hon. Julius M.
Mayer . . . subsequent to the said order of Judge
Lacombe .
.
, and especially commanding the said
Judge Chatfield to exercise the jurisdiction thereof which
he had and was exercising on and prior to the 29th of
.March, 1912."
A rule to show cause issued, and a return has been made.
The question now is whether a writ of mandamus shall
issue.
Shortly stated, the facts necessary to be understood are
these:
1. Creditors of the Iron Clad Manufacturing Company,
filed on May 23, 1911, a petition in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of New York,
praying its adjudication as a bankrupt. The proceeding
was long contested,, but on December 2, 1911, the company was adjudged a bankrupt by Judge Chatfield.
2. In.the meantime, controversies had arisen as to what
constituted the assets of that company. On June 20,
1911, certain of the creditors filed a petition in the case,
charging that the corporate capital, property and assets
of another corporation, the American Steel Barrel Company, belonged t, the Iron Clad Manufacturing Co., and
had been controlled adi managed in the interest of the

OCTOBER TERM., 1912.
Opinion ofthe Court.

20 U. s.

latter, and praying that the receivership under the proceeding against the Iron :Clad Manufacturing Company
should be extended to 'the American Steel Barrel Company.
3. This was bitterly resisted and the independent ownership of the Steel Barrel Company asserted. Elizabeth C.
Seaman was the president and manager of both coinpanies, and the nominal owner of all of the shares in each,
save a few qualifying shares in the hands of directors.
Mrs. Seaman seems to have been not only active in resisting the proceedings against the Iron Clad Company, but
also in resisting every claim to the property of the Steel
Barrel Company made by the creditors of the Iron Clad
Company.
4. The hearing of this application was postponed from
time- to time and there was disagreement as to whether it
should be heard upon affidavits before Judge Chatfield
or referred to a commissioner to take proof and report.
Finally, on March 15, 1912, Judge Chatfield filed an opinion refusing to extend the receivership to the property of
the American Steel Barrel Company, or to take summary
possession of its assets, as he had been asked to do. The
ground upon which he acted, as shown by his opinion
(194 Fed. Rep. 906), was, that the claim to the assets of
the Steel Barrel Company was one which should be asserted in a plenary suit. An order in accordance with this
opinion was not entered because counsel for the creditors
asked for time to make a new application, and such application was made on March 29, 1912, followed, however,
on-the same day, by the filing of an affidavit under § 21 of
the Judicial Code, to prevent further hearing of the case
by Judge Chatfield. That affidavit, in substance, alleged
that throughout the proceedings in the case, Judge Chatfield had manifested ' a strong bias and prejudice against
the petitioning creditors and against their counsel, and
has shown a strong bias toward Mrs. Elizabeth C. Seaman,

EX PARTE AM. STEEL BARREL CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who was and is the sole person interested in the subjectmatter of the bankrupt corporation's property other than
the creditors."
The motion to rehear the application to extend the receivership was made when District Judge Veeder was
holding the bankrupt court and was by him at once referred to Judge Chatfield. In view of the filing of the disqualifying affidavit, Judge Chatfield declined to hear the
motion and application to re-open and rehear the motion
which had been decided by the opinion handed down on
March 15th, and made a certificate in these words:
"UNITED STATES DISTRICT CO'URT,
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

IN THE MATTER

OF

March 29, 1912.
IRON CLAD MANFACTURING
COMPANY,
BANKRUPT.
IN THE MATTER OF A MOTION TO REOPEN THE APPLICATION TO EXTEND RECEIVERSHIP, FOR A DIRECTION
THAT THE PETITIONERS BE AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE TESTIMONY, ETC., AND FOR POSTPONEMENT OF THE ENTRY OF ANY ORDER OR DECREE UPON
THE APPLICATION DECIDED MARCH 15, 1912, AND FOR
OTHER RELIEF.
Before VEEDER, J.

Appearances: Whitridge, Butler & Rice, for petitioning
creditors, in support of motion, James A. Allen, specially
for Elizabeth C. Seaman and the American Steel Barrel

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S,

Co., Emanuel Hertz, specially for George A. Wheelock,
in opposition.
Motion respectfully referred to Judge Chatfield.
VAN VECHTEN VEEDER,

U.S.J.
The within application having been referred upon the
return day to me Judge Veeder, who called the motion
calendar, and the motion papers having been presented by
the Clerk, in the presence of James A. Allen, appearing
specially, and desiring to be heard in opposition, as attorney for certain parties, Emanuel Hertz, appearing specially for George A. Wheelock, and also desiring to be
heard in opposition, and Erskine B. Essig, representing
certain creditors, but not taking part in said motion, and
no one appearing before me on behalf of the petitioners,
but a certain affidavit by Thatcher M. Brown having
been brought to the attention of the Court, which affidavit
was filed after the motion was referred to me by Judge
Veeder and before any of the parties appeared before m,
in which the said Thatcher M. Brown, as P, party to the
proceeding, makes an affidavit that I have a personal bias
either against the creditors or in favor of the opposite
party to the proceeding, and asking that another judge
be designated in the matter prescribed in Section 20, to
hear this motion,
I do hereby, in accordance with the provisions of See-,
tion 21 of the law known as the Judicial Code, and now in
effect, proceed no further in this motion, and order that
an authenticated copy of this statement be forthwith certi-fled to the Hon. E. Henry Lacombe, Senior Circuit Judge
now present in this Circuit, in order that proceedings may
be had under Section 14 of said Act, it being apparent.that
this motion cannot proceed under section 23, which is
prescribed as an alternative method in said Section 21 of
said law.
The Court further certifies that it does not make an en-

EX PATPE AM. S''EEL BARRE,
230 U. S.

CO

Opinion of the Court.

try upon the records of the Court (nor does it admit) that
it has any personal bias or prejudice, but on the contrary
might call in question many of the statements or controvert many of the allegations contained in said papers.
And this Court feels that if any disqualification exists
it was also present when this Court directed a verdict of
adjudication and made other decisions in favor of said
creditors, and when the Judge now holding the Court
upheld the findings of the Special Commissioner as to
charges of contempt against Mrs. Seaman.
The Court however feels that the intent of Section 21
is to cause a-transfer of the case, without reference to the
merits of the charge of bias, and therefore does so immediately, in order that the application of the creditors
may be considered as speedily as possible by such Judge
as may be designated.
THOMAS

I.

CHATFIELD,

U. S. D. J."
Thereupon, Circuit Judge Lacombe made the order
which it is now sought to have set aside, in these words:
"UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT,
IN THE MATTER

OF

IRON CLAD MANUFACTURING
COMPANY,

BANKRUPT.

Upon the affidavit of Thatcher M. Brown, the certificate of Charles A. Riegehnan, Edwin T. Rice and John

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

M. Garveri Counsel for petitioning creditors and certificate
of the Senior District Judge of this District, all filed in
this Court on March 29, 1912, and which have been examined by me;
I, E. Henry Lacombe, Senior Circuit Judge of the
Second Circuit, under the authority conferred by Section
Twenty-Qne of the Judicial Code of the United States, do
hereby designate and appoint the Honorable Julius M.
Mayer, District Judge of the Southern District of New
York, to have and exercise, in the above entitled proceeding within the Eastern District of New York, the same
powers that are now vested in the District Judges of said
Eastern District -r either of them.
April 2, 1912.
E. HENRY LACOMBE,

Senior Circuit Judge,
Second Circuit.
Counsel for the respective parties may communicate
with Judge Mayer, who will inform them at what time or
times it may be 'convenient for him to hold Court in the
Eastern District.
E.

HENRY LACOMBE,

Senior Circuit Judge."
Thereupon Judge Mayer assumed jurisdiction and has
since made many interlocutory orders and rulings in the
case, to all of which the opposite parties in the proceeding
objected and, excepted upon the ground that his designation was null and void. Nevertheless, Judge Mayer continued to exercise jurisdiction, from the time of his designation in April, 1912, down to the filing of this petition in
February, 1913.
The fundamental proposition maintained by the petitioners is that all of the proceedings before Judge Mayer
are null and void for lack of jurisdiction and that Judge
Chatfield still retains jurisdiction, and that all of the interlocutory orders made by Judge Mayer should be vacated

EX PARTE AM. STEEL BARREL CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and Judge Chatfield commanded to proceed with the hearing of the matters pending before him when he refused
to proceed further with the case upon the filing of the
affidavit objecting to his further exercise of jurisdiction.
The proceeding to retire a trial judge of a United States
court from further hearing a case of which he has jurisdiction, had its origin in the new Judicial Code, effective
January 1, 1912, and constitutes § 21 of that Code. It is
as follows:
"Whenever a party fo any action or proceeding, civil or
criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge
before whom the action or proceeding is to be tried or
heard has a personal bias or prejudice either against him
or in favor of any opposite party to the suit, such judge
shall proceed no further therein, but another judge shall
be ,designated in the manner prescribed in the section last
preceding, or chosen in the manner prescribed in section
twenty-three, to hear such matter. Every such affidavit
shall state the facts and the reasons for the belief that
such bias or prejudice exists, and shall be filed not less
than ten days before the beginning of the term of the
court, or good cause shall be shown for the failure to file it
within such time. No party shall be entitled in any case
to file more than one such affidavit; and no'such affidavit
shall be filed unless accompanied by a certificate of counsel
of record that such affidavit and application are made in
good faith. The same proceedings shall be had when the
presiding judge shall file with the clerk of the court a
certificate that he deems himself unable for any reason to
preside with absolute impartiality in the pending suit or
action.")
•/ The basis'of the disqualification is that "personal bias
or prejudice" exists, by reason of which the judge is unable.
to impartially exercise his functions in the particular case.
It is a provision obviously not applicable save in those
rare instances in which the affiant is able to state facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

20 U. S.

which tend to show not merely adverse rulings already
made, which may be right or wrong, but facts and reasons
which tend to show personal bias or prejudice. It was
never intended to enable a discontented litigant to oust
a judge because of adverse rulings made, for such rulings
are reviewable otherwise, but to prevent his future action
in the pending cause. Neither was it intended to paralyze
the action of a judge who has heard the case, or a question
in it, by the interposition of a motion to disqualify him
betwee4 a hearing and a determination of the matter
heard. This is the plain meaning of the requirement that
the afMflavit shall be filed not less than ten days before the
beginning of the term.
The case of In re Iron Clad ManufacturingCompany had
been pending since May, 1911. This affidavit was not filed
until March 29, 1912, less than ten days before the April
term of the court. In the meantime that company had
been adjudged a bankrupt against much opposition, and
as' the result of a jury trial, and Judge Chatfield had made
many interlocutory orders in reference to the bankrupt
estate. The principal matter which was then pending before him was the petition of certain creditors of the iron
Clad Manufacturing Companyto have the receivership
for the property of that company extended so as to include
the corporate property ,of the Steel Barrel Company.
This was very earnestly contested. On March 15, 1912,
Judge Chatfield handed down the opinion reported in
194 Fed. Rep. 906, denying the application upon the
ground that the matter was one which should be asserted
by a plenary suit. The order denying that application did
not go down, because of the interposition of the motion
for a rehearing or to file a new application, on March 29,
1912, while Judge Veeder, another of the judges of the
Eastern District, was presiding, which was immediately
referred by Judge Veeder to Judge Chatfield. 'Thereupon
and before the latter could act upon it, and on the same

EX PARTE AM. STEEL BARREL CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

day, the disqualifying affidavit was filed. The action of
Judge Chatfield is fully shown by the order and certificate
set out heretofore.
We shall iot pass upon the timeliness of the affidavit,
nor upon the legal sufficiency of the facts therein stated,
as affording ground for the averment that "personal bias
or prejudice" existed. If Judge Chatfield had ruled that
the affidavit had not been filed in time, or that it did not
otherwise conform to the requirement of the statute, and
had proceeded with the case, his action might have been
excepted to and assigned as-error when the case finally
came under the reviewing power of an appellate tribunal.
Henry v. Speer, 201 Fed. Rep. 869; Ex parte Fairbank(Co.,
194 Fed. Rep. 978; Ex parte Glasgow, 195 Fed. Rep. 780,
affirmed by this court in Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420.
But this is not what happened. Judge Chatfield held that
the affidavit was sufficient in law to make it his duty to
proceed no further.. Acting upon that determination he
certified his withdrawal and the affidavit to the Senior
Circuit Judge that he might, in the exercise of his jurisdiction under § 14 of, the new Judicial Code, designate
another Judge to proceed with the hearing of the case. It
is obvious that if the designation of Judge Mayer under
these conditions was wholly beyond the judicial power of
the Senior Circuit Judge, his authority to make any order
or decree acting thereunder might have been excepted to
and thus made the subject of review in due course of law.
The writ of mandamus will be granted by this court only
when it is clear and indisputable that there is no other legal
remedy. Ex parte Newman, 14 Wall. 152, 165; Bayard v.
United States, 127 U. S. 246; In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14.
Judge Lacombe was clearly called upon to determine in
the exercise of his jurisdiction as the Senior Circuit Judge,
whether the situation was one in which he should designate a Judge in the room and place of Judge C hatfielt
le
determined the matter adversely to the petitioners. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

in this he made a mistake, it was one made in the course
of the exercise of his legitimate jurisdiction under § 14 of
the new Judicial Code, and we cannot compel him through
a writ of mandamus to undo what has thus been done.
Ex parte Burtis, 103 U. S. 238; In re Parsons,150 U. S. 150.
Aside from what has been said the long delay in asking the extraordinary remedy of mandamus would fully
justify this court in the exercise of a sound discretion in
denying relief.
The rule must be discharged.

ARIZONA COPPER COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
GILLESPIE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 106.

Argued January 27, 28, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.

In Arizona, by statute, all rivers, streams, and running waters arc
declared public, and may be used for purposes of milling, mining and
irrigation. The first appropriator is first in right to the extent necessary for his purposes; and neither the user for mining purposes nor
the user for agricultural purposes is placed upon a higher plane than
the other.
Where users of waters are placed, as in Arizona, upon the same plane,
the rights of lesser users are not subordinated to those of greater
users; nor is a wrong done by one to the other condoned because of
the magnitude or importance either of the public or the private in-.
terests Of the former.
Where one of several users of waters is wrongfully injuring the others
there is a remedy either at law or in equity; the latter depending upon
circumstances including the comparative injury of granting or refusing an injunction.
Where, as in this casp, the record does not show the damage which the
injunction might cause the defendant, but does show that the interests' of complainant and others of his class might be irreparably
injured by a continuance of the nuisarice, equity may grant relief.

