OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

230 U.S.

There was no error in the charge of the court set out
above, nor in any other part of the charge of which the
city can complain. Nor do we think the court erred in
denying the special charges asked by the city. Its several
assignments of error are overruled.
For the error in holding the ordinaice of June 7, 1906,
valid in law, and directing that from the amount found to
be due to the Water Company there should be deducted
the amount of the counterclaim of the city,
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded forfurther
proceedngs in accordancewith this opinion.

BOISE ARTESIAN HOT AND COLD WATER COMPANY, LIMITED, v. BOISE CITY. (NO. 2.)
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 313.

Argued May 7, 8,1913.-Deided June 16, 1913.

Where jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked wholly on diverse
citizenship but in the course of the case a constitutional question
arises, the unsuccessful party may bring the case direct to this court
under ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891 or, at his election, he may carry
it to the Circuit Court of Appeals which may either certify the
question to this court or decide it.
The Judiciary Act of 1891 does not contemplate two reviews in cases in
which jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked wholly on diverse
citizenship even. as to the constitutional questions which may arise,
and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals deciding such a
case is final.
Writ of error to review 186 Fed. Rep. 705, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals under the
Judiciary Act of 1891, are stated in the opinion.

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U: S.

(NO. 2.)

99

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Richard H. Johnson, with whom Mr. Richard Z.
Johnson was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles C. Cavanah and Mr. Charles F. Reddoch,
with whom Mr. John J. Blake and Mr. John F. Maclane
were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error seeking to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, reversiig
and remanding for a new trial a judgment of the Circuit
Court for the District of Idaho, for "license fees" or
rentals claimed to be due. to Boise City under ordinance
No. 678, which had accrued prior to the claim involved
in cases Nos. 573 and 639, argued with this case and disposed of by an opinion just handed down.
This writ of error must be dismissed. The jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, as shown by the plaintiff's pleading,
depended upon diversity of citizenship, and upon that
ground the Water Company removed the action from the
sate court to the Circuit Court of the United States.
One of the defenses of the Water Company, asserted in
its answer, was that it had by purchase and agreement
succeeded to grants to street easements which had not
expired, and that ordinance No. 678 of June 7, 1906,
imposing upon it a license fee or rental for the use and
occupation of the streets of the city with its pipes au(I
appliances for the distribution of water, was in derogation
of the street rights theretofore granted, and void as iii
contravention of Article I, ยง 10 of the Constitution of the
United States, and in violation of the Fourteenth Amend.ment thereto. This claim was denied and the ordinance
held valid. Upon that and other issues in the case the
Circuit Judge found for the plaintiff, the facts being
stipulated and a jury waived. The case was therefore one

OCTOBER TERM, 19,12.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

in which jurisdiction had been invoked wholly upon diversity of citizenship, but in the course of the case there
arose a question as to the constitutionality of the ordinance which was the foundation of the plaintiff's right.
The unsuccessful party had, therefore, a right to bring
the case direct to this court, or, at its election, carry it to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. It elected the latter course.
The Circuit Court of Appeals: might have certified the
question to this court, or it might decide it along with the
other questions in the case. But from its judgment no
writ of error will lie to this court, as the Judiciary Act
of. 1891 does not contemplate two reviews, one by the
Circuit Court of Appeals and another by this court in such
cases. Robinson v. Caldwetl, 1,65 U. 8. 359; Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S.472; Macfadden v. United States,
213 U. S. 288.
For this reason the writ of error must be dismissed.

OLD COLONY TRUST COMPANY v CITY OF
OMAHA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRI('T COURT OF, THE UTNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 754.

Argued February 27, 28, 1913. Reasrgued April 10, 11, 1913.
-Decided June 16, 1913.

A municipality, being a creature of the State, derives its powers from
the laws thereof, and is within the influence of the decisions of the
State's court of last resort.
Under the laws of Nebraska, asconstrued by the highest courts of that
State, municipalities had the power in 1884 'of granting licenses to
use the streets for public businless ;'uad, in the absence of specific lint-

