OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U..S.

ground, for it must clearly appear that it is actually so
sought. Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392; Hanford
v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273, 280.
It being thus apparent that divnerse citizenship was the
sole ground upon which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was invoked, it follows that the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was final. Spencer v. Duplan
Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526; Bankers Casualty Co. v. Minneapolis &c. Railway Co., 192 U. S. 371 ; Shulthis v. McDougal,
s.vpra; Lovell v. Newman, 227 U. S. 412; Denver v. New
York Trust Co., supra.
Appeal dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HoxMEs took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS & MINERS TRANSPORTATION CO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 131.

Argued January 2l, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.

Where the greater p4rt of a statute is unconstitutional as beyond the
,power of Congress, the question for the court to determine as to.the,
part which is constitutional is whether it was the intent of Congress
to have that part stand by itself-if not, the whole statute falls.
This court holds that it was the evident intent of Congress in enacting
the Civil Rights Act, to provide for its uniform operation in all

places in the States as well as the Territories within, the jurisdiction
of the United States, and that it was not the intpit of (0ongressthat
the provisious of the statute 0ioukl be applicable only to such places

BUTTS ty. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N (.O.
230 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

as are under the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Government.
The provisions of the Civil Rights Act having been declared unconstitutional as to their operation within the States, Civil Rightg Cases,
109 U. S. 3, they are not separable as to their operation in such places
as are under the exclusive jurisdiction cf the National Government
and the statute is therefore unconstitutional in its entirety. The
Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82.

The enforcement of a remedial statute, such as the Employers' Liability
Act, in Territories of the United States, although unconstitutional as
to the States, is distinguishable from the similar enforcement of a
highly penal statute such as the Civil Rights Act. El Paso &c.Railway Co. v. Gutier'ez, 215 U. S. 87, distinguished.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of §§ I
and 2 of the Civil Rights Act of March 1, 1875, as applied
to vessels of the United States engaged in the coastwise
trade, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Albin L. Richards for plaintiff in error:
Congress has two kinds of jurisdiction, that dependent
upon locality and that dependent upon subject-matter.
The first includes jurisdiction over vessels of the United
States upon the high seas and the navigable waters of
the United States.
The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of Congress is
not dependent solely upon the power of regulating commerce, United States v. Burlington & Henderson Ferry, 21
Fed. Rep. 331, 341, but also on the grant extending the
judicial power to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction in Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution. The
Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398.
Fixing the limits of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
is simply establishing a physical boundary. See Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 465;
The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443; Gilman v. Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 724; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Daniel Ball, 10
Wall. 557; Ex parte Easton, 95 U. S. 68; In re Garnett,
141 U. S. 1; The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U. S.

For the distinction between acts regulating interstate
commerce upon land and the jurisdiction of Congress over
navigable waters, see ,The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 565;
Ex parte Easton, 95 U. S. 68, 72; The Robert W. Parsons,
191 U. S. 17.
The sovereignty of Congress over United States vessels
upon the high seas is in nowise impaired by the fact that
within that jurisdiction for some purposes, the laws of the
individual States are given effect. The Hamilton,207 U. S.
398, distinguished. See article by George Whitelock, 22
Harv. Law Rev., pp. 403,413.
That admiralty does not recognize any right of a
State or sovereignty to legislate for the vessels of its
citizens as if they were its own territory is shown by
the Bourgogne Case, 210 U. S. 95, 115. See also United
States v. Davis, 2 Sumner, 482; The Queen v. Keyn, L. R.
2 Ex. Div. 63, 66, 98, 101, 107, 148, 149, 150, 158, 232,
238.
The established principle that the law of the United
States will govern in civil cases of collision upon the high
seas between vessels of different foreign nationalities shows
that the admiralty jurisdiction is not subject to the law
of the State of the owner of the vessel.
The above distinction is important in determining
whether to give to an unconstitutional statute a partial
enforcement, based upon the first or second kind of jurisdiction.
While there must always be a doubt as to whether
Congress in passing a law in terms applicable to .the entire
country, but held to be unconstitutional except so far as
applicable to interstate comnerce, desired to give rise
to the difficulty and confusion which might result within
the States from the partial application of the statute, these
objections do not exist in the case of a partial application
based upon locality; that is to say, giving the statute
effect in the District of Columbia, in the Territories and

BUTTS i,. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N CO.
230 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

upon the high seas and navigable waters of the United
States, but not elsewhere. See act to more effectually
provide for the punishment of crimes, of March 3, 1825,
and comments of Mr. Justice Story cited in United States
v. Press Publishing Co., 219 U . S. 1, 12. And see also
Benedict, Admiralty, 4th ed, § 599; United States v. Wilson, 3 Blatchf. 435.
The application of the statute to enrolled vessels of the
United States upon the high seas, to the District of Columbia and the Territories is separable from the other applications of the statute.
El Paso & N. E. Ry, Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87,
holding provisions of Employers' Liability Act separable
as to Federal jurisdiction, decided substantially the question which was left open by this court in the Civil Rights
Cases upon which the defendant in error relies to prevent
the enforcement of this law. Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S.
3, 19, 25.
The application of this statute to those places within
the plenary jurisdiction of Congress is in accordance with
the intention of Congress.
The Civil Rights Act was a statute passed with the
benevolent purpose of alleviating the condition of the
recently enfranchised slaves. It was a law for the personal
benefit and protection of individuals, an attempt to lift
them up as far as possible to the plane of other citizens.
It was a law of personal rights and the failure of such a law
to extend 'throughout the Union., while regrettable, would
give no reason for not having such a law in force wherever
(ongress could legally enact it.
Congress intended the Civil Rights Act to have a partial
application so far as it was constitutional. See Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, in which the fourth section of the
statute was permitted to be enforced in a criminal case.
Mr. A. Nathan Williams for defendant in error.
voL. ccxxx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

VAN DEVANTER

230 U. S.

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is an action to recover twelve penalties of $500
each under §§ 1 and 2 of the act of March 1, 1875, 18 Stat.
335, c. 114, known as the Civil Rights Act. According
to the declaration the facts are these: The plaintiff is a
colored woman and a citizen of the United States, and
the defendant is a Maryland corporation engaged in the
transportation of passengers and freight by vessels plying

between Boston, Massachusetts, and Norfolk, Virginia.
Upon tickets purchased for the purpose and entitling her
to the accommodations and privileges of a first class

passenger, the plaintiff was carried by the defendant on
one of its steamships from Boston to Norfolk and on
another back to Boston. Both vessels were engaged in
the coastwise trade as public conveyances, and were duly
enrolled under the laws of the United States. During
bothvoyages the plaintiff was denied, because of her color,
the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations and
privileges of a first class passenger, the denials consisting
in requiring her to take her meals at a second table, instead
ot at the first with the white passengers having tickets like
her own, and in giving her a stateroom on the lower deck,
instead of on the upper one where the white passengers
possessing like tickets were given rooms. The acts of
discrimination were twelve in number. Eleven were
charged as occurring upon the high seas more than a
marine league from any land, and the other as occurring
merely upon the high seas. There was no attempt to set
up a common law right of recovery, the sole reliance being
upon §§ 1 and 2 of the act of 1875, supra. The defendant
demurred, claiming that those sections are unconstitutional and void, and the demurrer was sustained, judgment
being given for the defendant. The plaintiff then sued out
this direct writ of error.

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The preamble of the act and the sections under which
the penalties are claimed are as follows:
"Whereas, it is essential to just government we recognize the equality of all men before the law, and hold that
it is the duty of government in its dealings with the people
to mete out equal and exact justice to all, of whatever
nativity, race, color, or persuasion, religious or political;
and it being the appropriate object of legislation to enact
great fundamental principles into law: Therefore,
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That all persons within the jurisdiction of the United
States shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of
the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges
of inns, public conveyances on land or water, theatres,
and other places of public amusement; subject only to
the conditions and limitations established by law, and
applicable alike to citizens of every race and color, regardless of any previous condition of servitude.
"Sec. 2. That any person who shall violate the foregoing section by denying to any citizen, except for reasons
by law applicable to citizens of every race and color, and
regardless of any previous condition of servitude, the full
enjoyment of any of the accommodations, advantages,
facilities, or privileges in said section enumerated, or by
aiding or inciting such denial, shall, for every such offence,
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars to the
person aggrieved thereby, to be recovered in an action
of debt, with full costs; and shall also, for every such
offence, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than five hundred
nor more than one thousand dollars, or shall be imprisoned not less than thirty days nor more than one year:
-Provided,That all persons may elect to sue for the penalty
aforesaid or to proceed under their rights at common
law-and by state statutes; and haying so elected to pro-

OCTrOBEIR TERM, 1912;
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

ceed in the one mode or the other, their right to proceed in the other jurisdiction shall be barred. But this
proviso shall not apply to criminal proceedings, either
under this act or the criminal law of any State: And
provided further, That a judgment for the penalty in favor of the party aggrieved, or a judgment upon an indietment, shall be a bar to either prosecution respectively."
The question of the constitutional validity of those
sections came before this court in Civil Rights Cases, 109
U. S. 3, and upon full consideration it was held (a) that
they receive no support from the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce because, as is shown by
the preamble and by their terms, they were not enacted
in the exertion of that power, and (b) that as applied to
the States they are unconstitutional and void because
in excess of the power conferred upon Congress and an
encroachment upon the, powers reserved to the States
respectively. That decision has stood unchallenged for
almost thirty years and counsel for the plaintiff does not
question it now. But he does contend that, although unconstitutional and void in their application to the States,
the ;ections are valid and effective in all other places
within the jurisdiction of the United States, such as upon
an American vessel upon the high seas, more than a marine
league from land, and in the District of Columbia and
the Territories.
And in this connection our attention is
directed to that part of the opinion in Civil Rights CaseCs
which says (p. 19):
"We have also discussed the validity of tle law in
reference to cases arising in the States only; and not in
reference to'cases arising in the Territories or the District
of Columbia, which are subject to the plenary legislation
of Congress in every branch of municipal regulation.
Whether the law would be a valid one as applied to the
Territories and the District is not a question for consider-

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ation in the cases before 'us; they all being cases arising
within the limits of States."
The real question is, whether the sections in question,
being in part-by far the greater part-in excess of the
power of Congress, are invalid in their entirety. Their
words, as also those of the preamble, show that Congress
proceeded upon the assumption that it could legislate, and
was legislating, in respect of all persons and all places
"within the jurisdiction of the United States." It recognized no occasion for any exception and made none. Its
manifest purpose was to enact a law which would have
an uniform operation wherever the jurisdiction of the
United States extended. But the assumption was erroneous, and for that reason the purpose failed. Only by
reason of the general words indicative of the intended
uniformity can it be said that there was a purpose to
embrace American vessels upon the high seas, the District
of Columbia and the Territories. But how can the mianifest purpose to establish an uniform law for the entire
jurisdiction of the United Staes be converted into a
purpose to create a law for only a small fraction of that
jurisdiction? How can the use of general terms denoting
an intention to enact a law which should be applicable
alike in-all places within that jurisdiction be said to indicate a purpose to make a law which should be applicable
to a minor part of that jurisdiction and inapplicable to
the major part? Besides, it is not to be forgotten that
the intended law is both penal and criminal. Every act
of discrimination within its terms is made an offense and
misdemeanor, and for every such offense it gives to the
aggrieved party a right to a penalty of $500 and subjects
the offender to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000,. or to imprisonfient for not less than thirty days
nor more than one year.
The decision of this court in United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214, is well in point. That was a prosecution

.OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

2$30 U. S.

under a congressional enactment punishing election officers
for refusing to any person entitled to do so the right to
cast his vote. The statute was expressed in general term, s
embracing some acts which Congress could condemn and
others which it could not. As to the latter it was, of course,

invalid, and the claim was made that, as the act charged
was not of the latter class but of the former, the statute
should be sustained as to acts like the one charged, notwithstanding the general terms were in excess of the power
of Congress. But the court held otherwise, saying: ,
(p. 219) "This is a penal statute, and must be construed
strictly; not so strictly, indeed, as to defeat the clear
intention of Congress, but the words employed, must be
understood in the sense they were obviously used. United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 85. If, taking the whole
statute together, it is apparent that it was not the intention of Congress thus to limit the operation of the act,
we cannot give it that effect.
(p. 221) "We are, therefore, directly called upon to
decide Whether a penal statute enacted by Congress,
with its limited powers, which is in general language
broad enough to cover wrongful acts without as well as
within the constitutional jurisdiction, can be limited by
judicial construction so as to make it operate only on
that which Congress may rightfully prohibit and punish.
For this purpose, we must take these sections of the statute
as they are. We are not able to reject a part which is
unconstitutional, and retain the remainder, because it
is not. possible to separate that which is unconstitutional,
if there be any such, from that which is not. The proposed effect is not to be attained by striking out or disregarding words that are in the section, but by inserting
those that are not now there. Each of the sections must
stand as a whole, or fall altogether. The language is plain.
There is no room for construction, unless it be as to the
effect of the Constitution. The question, then, to be de-

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

termined, is, whether we can introduce words of limitation
into a penal statute so as to make it specific, when, as expressed, it is general only.
"It would certainly be dangerous if the legislature
could set a net large enough to catch all possible offenders,
and leave it to the courts to step inside and say who could
be rightfully detained, and who should be set at large.
This would, to some extent, substitute the judicial for
the legislative department of the government. The courts
enforce the legislative will when ascertained, if within
the constitutional grant of power. Within its legitimate
sphere, Congress is supreme, and beyond the control of
the courts; but if it steps outside of its constitutional
limitations, and attempts that which is beyond its reach,
the courts are authorized to, and when called upon in
due course of legal proceedings must, annul its encroachments upon the reserved power of the States and the
people. To limit this statute in the manner now asked
for would be to make a new law, not to enforce an old
one. This is no part of our duty."
So here, to give to the sections in question the effect
suggested it would be necessary to reject or strike out
the general words "within the jurisdiction of the United
States," whereby Congress intended to declare and define
in what places the sections should be operative, and to
insert other and new words restricting their operation to
American vessels upon the high seas and to the, District
of Columbia and the Territories. To do this would be
to introduce a limitation where Congress intended none
and thereby to make a new penal statute, which, of course,
we may not do.
Another decision no less in, point is Trade Mark Cases,
100 U. S. 82, which related to an act of Congress providing generally for punishing the fraudulent use of registered
trade-marks,, although the power of Congress in that
regard extended only to trade-marks used in commerce

OCTOBI,

T'lRM, 1912.

Upieicn of the Court.

20 U , S.

with foreign nations, or among the several States or with
the Indian tribes. In pronouncing the statute invalid
in its entirety the court said:
(p. 96) "When, therefore, Congress undertakes to
enact a law, which can only be valid as a regulation of
commerce, it is reasonable to expect to find on the face
of the law, or from its essential nature, that it is a regulation of commerce with foreign nations, or among the
several States, or with the Indian tribes. If not so limited,
it is in excess of the power of Congress.
(p. 98) "It has been suggested that if Congress has
power to regulate trade-marks used in commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States, these,
statutes shall be held valid in that class of cases, if ni
further. To this there are two objections: ....
Secondly, while it may be true that when one part of a
Statute is valid and constitutional, and another part IS
unconstitutional and void, the court may enforce th(e
valid part where they are distinctly separable so that
each can stand alone, it is not within the judicial provinec
to give. to the words used by Congr sn a uartower mcani ,g
than they are manifestly intended to bear in order thai.
crimes may be punished which are nor, described in lanaguage that brings them within the conastitutional power
of that body.
(p. 99) "If -we should, in the ease befre us,
undert 3t.
to make by judicial construction a law which Congress:;
did not make, it is quite probable ee should do what, if
the matter were now before that body, it would be unwilI
ing to do; namely, make a trade-mark law which. is olfltY
partial in its operation, and whih would compliea, ,,
the -rights which parties would hold, in some .instanoc::
under the act of Congress, and in others under state law."
The two cases from which we bav quoted haxc ber
often followed and applied. United ,Siae&; v. Harris, 106
U. S 629, 641; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U, . 678, 68 ,

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS TRANSP'N CO.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127, 140; United States v.
Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262; Illinois Central Railroad Co.
v. McKendree, 203 U. S.514, 529-530; Karemi v. United
States, 121 Fed. Rep. 250, 259.
Counsel for the plaintiff cites El Paso & Northeastern
Railway Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S.87, as an authority for
holding the sections in question valid as applied to American vessels upon the high seas and to tho District of
Columbia and the Territories, notwithstanding their invalidity as applied to the States. The matter involved
in that case was whether the provision in the Employers'
Liability Act of 1906, 34 Stat. 232, c. 3073, relating to
the District of Columbia and the Territories could be
sustained, considering that the provision relating to interstate commerce had been adjudged invalid in Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463. That act was quite unlike the sections now before us in two important particulars: 1. It was not a penal or criminal statute, to be
strictly construed, but was a civil and purely remedial
one, to be construed liberally. 2. Its applicability to the
District of Columbia and the Territories did not depend
upon the same words which made it applicable to interstate commerce. On the contrary, it dealt expressly,
first, with common carriers "in the District of Columbia,
or in any Territory of the United States," and, second,
with common carriers "between the several States."
The latter provision had been adjudged invalid because
too broad in some of its features, and the Gutierrez Case
involved the other provision. In that case the court,
considering the terms of the statute, held that the provision relating to interstate commerce was "entirely
separable from" the one relating to the District of Columbia and the Territories, and that Congress manifestly
had proceeded "with the intention to regulAte the matter in the District and the Territories, irrespective of
the interstate commerce feature -of the act." With the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

2 O U. S.

invalid and separable provision eliminated, there still
remained a complete and operative statute in terms
applying to the District of Columbia aid the Territories.
The differences between that act and the sections now
before us are so pronounced and so obvious that the
Gutierrez Case is not an authority for the plaintiff. On
the contrary, it is iti entire harmony with the other cases
before cited, as is shown throughout the opinion and by the
following excerpt (p. 97):
"It remains to inquire whether it is plain that Congress
would have enacted the legislation had the act been
limited to the regulation of the liability to employ6s
engaged in -commerce. within the District of Columbia
and the Territories. If we are satisfied that it would
not, or that the matter is in such doubt that we are
unable to say what Congress would have done omitting
the unconstitutional feature, then the statute must fall.
Illinois Central R. R, Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514;
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U, S. supra."
Here it is not possible to separate that which is constitutional from that which is not. Both are dependent upon
the same general words, "within the jurisdiction of the
United States," which alone indicate where the sections
are to be operative. Those words, as the context and the
preamble show, were purposely used They express
the legislative will and cannot be limited in the manner
suggested without altering the purpose with which the
two sections were enacted. They must therefore be
adjudged altogether invalid. James v. Bowman and
United States v. Ju Toy, supra; Poindexter v. Greenhow,
114 U. S. 270, 305.
Judgment affirmed.

