OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus,

MISSOURI

PACIFIC RAILWAY
TUCKER.

230 U. S.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS

No. 52. Submitted November 14, 1912.-Decided June 16, 1913.
To require a railroad company to charge such rates for transportation
as prevent it from obtaining a reasonable return for the service rendered amounts to deprivation of property without due process of
law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and is beyond the
power of the State. Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Commission, 206 U. S. 1.
Rates that a railroad company may charge for transportation as fixed
by the legislation of a State are presumptively valid, but not conclusively so; and the company is entitled to have the question of
whether the prescribed rates are confiscatory and therefore deprive
it of its property without due process of law determined in appropriate judicial proceedings.
A common carrier is not at liberty to accept or decline shipments of
lawful merchandise but must accept them and name to the shipper
the rate of transportation.
While it may be within the power of the State to impose double or
treble damages on a carrier for overcharging transportation rates,
it is beyond its power to impose a fixed amount as liquidated damages in every case regardless of, and as a general rule many times in
excess of, the actual damages. To do so would deprive the carrier
of its property without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A state statute which does not permit a. carrier to have the question of
sufficiency of rates determined by a court of competent jurisdictioi
and which imposes such conditions upon the appeal for judicial relief as works an abandonment of the right rather than face those
conditions, is unconstitutional as depriving the carrier of its property without due process of law. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123,
147.
That part of the statute of Kansas of 1905 establishing maximum rates
for transportation of oil, gasoline, etc., which fixes $500 as liquidated
damages in favor of the shipper for any excess charge regardless of
the amount thereof, is so arbitrary and oppressive as to render it

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. TUCKER.
230 U. 8.

341

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as taking the
property of the carriers without due process of law.
82 Kansas, 222, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the statute of 1905 of the
State of Kansas establishing maximum rates for transportation of oil, gasoline, etc., which fixes five hundred dollars as liquidated damages for violations of the act, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Bailie P. Waggener for plaintiff in error:
The act is, on its face, in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, and denies the railway companies
the equal protection of the law.
When the railroad company is called to account for a
violation of the law, it may then, and not until then,
question the rates. The Supreme Court of Kahsas has
so construed the statute. C., M. & St. P. R. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 458.
Violation of this section of the act is not made a misdemeanor, and no public officer is charged with its enforcement. The unreasonableness of the rates, therefore,
cannot be tested or questioned in a comprehensive bill in
equity. The company can initiate no affirmative action.
The judgment in one case would not be res judicata as
against any other shipper seeking to collect the penalty.
The statute is void on its face under Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123, 146.
The statute of Kansac involved in this case is far more
drastic, arbitrary and unreasonable than the statute of
Nebraska, declared unconstitutional in Mo. Pac. Ry. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S. 207, and see also C., M. & St. P. Ry.
Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 460.
While the railway company is testing the validity of
the law as to one shipment, either the confiscatory rates
are in force or enormous penalties are accruing against

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

230 U. S.

the carrier for non-observance of the statutory schedules.
The remedy afforded must be adequate or it is not due
process of law. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, and see also
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 102.
The construction placed upon the act by the Supreme
Court of Kansas in effect closes all approach to the courts
by the carrier for relief from unreasonable and confiscatory
legislative rates. To provide a remedy which is unreasonable, and which is so onerous and impracticable as to
substantially give none at all, renders the law invalid,
although what is termed a remedy is in fact given. MeGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662, 694; Ex parte Young,
supra.
The act is class legislation of the rankest character,
arbitrary and unreasonable, and denies to railroad companies the equal protection of the law.
The rates prescribed by the schedule in the act are unreasonable and confiscatory, and deprive the railroad company of its property without compensation, and without
due process of law, and deny to it the equal protection of
the law.
Mr. John S. Dawson, Attorney General of Kansas,
Mr. S. N. Hawkes, Mr. Richard Henry Towne and Mr.
John W. Tucker, pro se, for defendant in error:
No violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment is shown in the statute itvolved in this case.
There being no showing of any7 reduction in rates of oil
t ransported, there can be no violation by the legislation
of the due pro(ess clause of' the F'ourteenth Amendment.
Beca se an article may
crried
ae
at, a loss the rate is not
necessarily unreasonable.
Under the rule of commercial necessity, certain commodities are at times transported at a figure below the
average of tariffs, sometimes at an a(tual habitual loss.
The fact that sllmh rate may he presrihed as to a partiew

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. TUCKER.
230 U. S.

343

Argument for Defendant in Eror.

lar commodity will not from that fact alone lay the prescription open to the imputation of unreasonableness.
State v. Minn. & St. L. R. Co., 80 Minnesota, 191; S. C.,
aff'd 186 U. S. 257; State v. Railroad Co., 57 So. Rep. 673;
Reagan v. Farmers' L. & Tr. Co., 154 U. S. 362, 412.
In so flagrant a case of discrimination as here shown,
public interest, public policy, and public welfare demand
adequate means for fixing rates at least as low as those
habitually given the most favored shipper, and especially
is this applicable to an integral product, the theme of such
notorious comment and animadversion as the oil traffic.
Ala. & V. R. Co. v. Mississippi R. R. Com., 203 U. S.
496; Seaboard Air Line Co. v. Florida,203 U. S. 261.
Public interest and even custom, under the guise of
"commercial necessity," may outweigh the usual considerations entering into the fixing of a rate. Carriage at
habitual loss is of so common occurrence that the courts
take judicial notice of the usual course of business in that
regard, and will refuse to condemn as unreasonable a prescription of that nature, when falling within the rule of
necessity or demanded by public interest. McCue v.
Nor. Pac. R. Co., 25 L. R. A. (N. S.) 1001; S. C., aff'd,
216 U. S. 579; see also cases compelling a road to put on
additional trains at a positive loss, whether it be for public
safety, or mere personal convenience Atlantic Coast Line
v. North Car. Codn., 206 U. S. 1; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 262. And as to other requirements,
Consumers' Co. v. Hatch, 224 U. S. 148; Memphis v. Postal
Tel Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 342.
Legislation fixing rates of transportation is presumptively reasonable, and the burden is on plaintiff in error to
show that the rate is unreasonable from every angle. Texas
& P. R. Co. v. R. R. Com., 192 Fed. Rep. 280; Railroad
Commission v. Cumberland Tel. Co., 212 U. S. 414, see, also,
So. Pac. Coy. R. R. Com., 193 Fed. Rep. 699.
If the statu te be doubtful, the court will presume that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

230 U. S.

the legislature intended the enactment of a valid, sensible
and just law, Black on Interpretation, 87, and that the
legislature did not attempt. to transcend the rightful
limits of its authority. Id. 89. Every act is presumed to
be valid and constitutional until the contrary is shown.
Id. 93, and cases there cited; see also Sinking Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700; 1 Willoughby on Constitutional Law, 20,
23.
Charges must be reasonable, is the requirement of the
law, as expressed by the cases. As to the question of
reasonableness, the test is not alone if it be compensatory
to this or that particular individual. Reagan v. Farmners'
Co., 154 U. S. 362, 412.
Reasonableness should be determined from average
normal conditions. C. & G. T. R. Co. v. Wellman, 143
U. S' 680; Coington& L. T. Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578;
Dow v. Biedleman (Ark.), 5 S. W. Rep. 297; S. C., aff'd,
125 U. S. 680; St. L. & S. F. R. Co. v. Gill, 54 Arkansas,
101; S. C., aff'd, 154 U. S. 649; Purdy v. Erie R. Co. (N.
Y.), 48 L. R. A. 669.
The legislature is given, under the police power, not
only the clear right to fix rates, in which it necessarily is
given wide discretion, but when the legislature shall
directly fix the rate, the rule that the question of reasonableness is a judicial one does not apply, but the rate fixed
must be reasonable, Judicial deterrhination does not
precede the execution of the law, but on attempted enforcement it may be invoked in a proper case. Budd v.
New York, 143 U. S. 517,; and note 5 L. R. A. 559; Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113.
The State is simply farming out the operation of public
utilities. See Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 544, holding
that a railroad corporation maintaining a highway under
the authority of the State may not fix its rates with a view
solely to its own interests, and ignore the rights of the
public.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY, CO. v. TUKER.
230 U. S.

345

Argument for Defendant in Error.

This exercise of legislative discretion is subject to judicial supervision to no greater extent than is like exercise
in any applications of the police power; the occasion for
judicial determination does not arise until the law is applied as effectual.
This is an action for damages expressly given by the
statute, not a penalty. If it were for a penalty, the only
remedy therefor at common law would be an action in
debt on the statute. This action would be trespass on the
case at common law. This action sounds in tort. Smith
v. Chicago & N. W, Ry. Co., 49 Wisconsin, 443; Heiserman
v. Burlington Ry. Co., 63 Iowa, 736; Graham v. Railway

Co., 53 Wisconsin, 473.
It is not necessary that the statute to be constitutional
must be weighted with a clog to its enforcement so as to
give to the party affected an opportunity to obtain a
judicial annulment of the legislation, not only as to himself, but as to every other person similarly affected.
That would mean that every penalty imposed, whether
corporal or pecuniary, on behalf of the public, and as well
every remedy given private parties damaged through infractions of the law, must be subject to some means of
judicial investigation of the reasonableness of the requirement, in depriving the malefactor of property, or the tortfeasor in private injuries, if the one or the other shall be
conducting business charged with public use or interest.
If that be the law, there is no legislative discretion in
the case of business charged with public use and interest.
It is the provinlce of the legislature to provide what the

law shall be, and the duty of the court to determine and
declare what the law is with reference to a given state of
facts. McGehee on Due Process of Law, 77; Roller v.
Holly, 176 U. S. 398; Ex parte Young, can be clearly distinguished from this case.
The act is not class legislation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

230 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
By an act of February 17, 1905, the legislature of the
State of Kansas prescribed a schedule of maximum rates
to be charged by common carriers for the transportation,
between points in that State, of "illuminating oil, gasoline,
fuel oil, or crude petroleum, in cans, barrels, tanks or tank
cars," and provided that every such carrier "which shall
demand, exact or receive for such transportation or delivery any sum in excess of the rates hereby made lawful,
shall be liable to any person injured thereby in the sum of
five hundred dollars as liquidated damages, to be recovered by action in any court of competent jurisdiction, together with a reasonable attorney's fee, to be fixed by the
court." Laws, 1905, c. 353, p. 589.
In December, 1906, there were shipped from Humboldt,
Kansas, to Cawker City, in that State, 25 barrels of fuel
oil, of which J. W. Tucker was the consignee. The shipment Was carried from the point of origin about 253 miles
over the railroad of the Santa Fe Company to Concordia,
and thence to the point of destination, about 47 miles,
over the line of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company.
According to the statute the charge for the entire transportation should have been $12.00, but the Missouri
Pacific Company demanded and collected therefor from
Tucker, the consignee, $3.02 in excess of that sum. He
thereupon brought an action in one of the courts, of the
State, under the act before named, to recover from that
company $500 as liquidated damages and a reasonable
attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court. The company
defended upon the grounds that the statutory rates were
confiscatory and void, and that the statute, and particularly the provision for the recovery of $500 as liquidated
damages, was so arbitrary and unreasonable as to be repugnant to the due process of law and equal protection.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. TUCKER.
230 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. Other defenses, based on the state
constitution, were interposed, but we need not notice
them. The plaintiff recovered a judgment for the $,500,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
the Federal questions being decided adversely to the company, 82 Kanwas, 222, and the latter prosecutes this writ
of error.
As the right of recovery' and the judgment sustaining
it were rested upon the provision imposing a liability for
liquidated damages in the sum of $500, we come at once
to the question of the validity of that provision under the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Primarily it is to be observed that the rates prescribed
by the legislature, while presumptively valid, are not conclusively so; that to require the company, in the operation
of its road, to give effect to rates which prevent it from obtaining a reasonable return for the service rendered to the
public is to deprive it of its property without due process
of law; and that whether the prescribed rates are thus
in excess of the State's power (see Atlantic Coast Line R.
R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206
U. S, 1, 24-26, and cases cited) is a question which the
company is entitled to have determined in appropriate
judicial proceedings. And it also is to be observed that
the act of '1905 and other laws of the State, as construed
by the state court, afford the company no opportunity
for securing a judicial determination of the validity of
these rates otherwise than as it may do so in a defensive
way when charged, in a case like this or in some criminal
prosecution, with failing to give effect to them.
Being a common carrier, the company is not at liberty
to accept or decline shipments of oil. It must receive and
carry them when offered and must be ready to name to
shippers the rates at which that service will be rendered.
It' tie statutory rates permit a reasonable return they are

41I]!
N I TEIM, 19112.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

controlling; if they prevent it they are invalid. But of
their obligatory character the company is not the judge.
And yet it must choose whether it will give effect to them
or no, and then must abide the result of its action. If
they be so unreasonably low as to be invalid it cannot give
effect to them without sustaining a serious and irreparable
loss; and if effect be not given to them and they be subsequently adjudged lawful, the enforcement of the prescribed liabilities and penalties will likewise entail a most
serious loss, for the transactions involved must necessarily
be numerous. In one of the briefs it is said that the intrastate oil shipments on the company's lines in Kansas in a
single year are as many as 10,000. Thus it will be perceived that the position of the company, with no right
itself to institute a proceeding to determine for itself and
all shippers the validity of the legislative rates, is one of
exceeding perplexity.
On the other hand, the interests of shippers and consumers of oil must be considered no less than those of the
carrier. Experience teaches that to secure adherence to
rates, even when lawfully prescribed, it is essential that
deviations from them be discouraged by adequate liabilities and- penalties.

It is in the light of these considerations that the validity
of the provision imposing a liability for liquidated damages in the sum of $500 for every charge in excess of the
legislative rates must be tested.
It will be perceived that this liability is not proportioned
to the actual damages. It is not as if double or treble
damages were allowed, as often is done, and as we think
properly could have been done here. Nor is it as if there
would be difficulty in proving or ascertaining the actual
damages, thereby furnishing a reason for prescribing a
liquidated amount reasbnably approximating the probable
damages, taking one case with another. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. Cram, 228 U. S. 70. What the

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. TUCKER.
230 U. S.

349

Opinion of the Court.

statute does is to authorize a recovery of $500 in every case,
whether the shipment be of one barrel, or of ten or twentyfive barrels, or of a tank car, and this although it is of
common knowledge that the possible damages in respect
of the charge for carrying any of these from one point in
the State to another could never be more than a small
fraction of that sum. In the present case the shipment
was of 25 barrels for a distance of 300 miles, and the excess
over the legislative rate, $3.02, was less than 1-150 of the
authorized recovery.
The state court, although recognizing that the solution
of the problem is not free from difficulty, reached the conclusion that "so long as the defendant [the carrier] cannot
be made to suffer until a competent court has passed
upon the justice of the legislative rates, the guarantees of
the Federal Gonstitution are not infringed."

But that

this view fails to recognize the real plight of the carrier
is made-plain by the following extract from the opinion in
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 147:

"If the law be such as to make the decision of the legislature or of a commission conclusive as to the sufficiency
of the rates, this court has held such a law to be unconstitutional. Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134

U. S. 418. A law which indirectly accomplishes a like
result by imposing such conditions upon the right to appeal for judicial relief as works an abandonment of the
right rather than face the conditions upon which it is
offered or may be obtained, is also unconstitutional. It
may therefore be said that when the penalties for disobedience are by fines so enormous and imprisonment so

severe as to intimidate the company and its officers from
resorting to the courts to test the validity of the legislation, the result is the same as if the law in terms prohibited
the company from seeking judicial construction of laws
which deeply affect its rights.
"It is urged that there is no principle upon which to

( ,(03trB,4

'PiI{M,1912.

Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

base the claim that a person is entitled to disobey a statute at least once, for the purpose of testing its validity
without subjecting himself to the penalties for disobedience
provided by the statute in case it is valid. This is not an
accurate statement of the case. Ordinarily a law creating,
offenses in the nature of misdemeanors or felonies relates
to a subject over which the jurisdiction of the legislature
is complete in any event. In the case, however, of the
establishment of certain rates without any hearing, the
validity of such rates necessarily depends upon whether
they are high enough to permit at least some return upon
the investment (how much it is not now necessary to
state), and an inquiry as to that fact is a proper subject
of judicial investigation. If it turns out that the rates
are too low for that purpose, then they are illegal. Now,
to impose upon a party interested, the burden of obtaining
a judicial decision of such a question (no prior hearing
having ever been given) only upon the condition that if
unsuccessful he must suffer imprisonment and pay fines
as provided in these acts, is, in effect, to close up all approaches
the courts, and thus prevent any hearing
upon the to
question whether the rates as provided by the
acts are not too low, and therefore invalid. The distinction is obvious between a caIse where the validity of the
act depends upon the existence of a fact which can be
determined only after investigation of a very complicated
and technical character, and the ordinary, case of a statute
upon a subject requiring no such investigation and over
which the jurisdiction of the legislature is complete in any
event."
What was said .in that case is conclusive of the question
here. True, the act then under consideration subjected
the officers and agents of the carrier to penalties not found
in the act now before us, but, notwithstanding this, we
think the liabilities and penalties imposed by the Kansas
statute bring it within the controlling principle of that

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY, CO. v. TUCKER,
230 U. S.

351

Opinion of the Court.

decision. As applied to cases like the present the imposition of $500 as liquidated damages is not only grossly out
of proportion to the possible actual damages but
is so
arbitrary and oppressive that its enforcement would be
nothing short of the taking of property without due process
of law and therefore in contraventidn of the Fourteenth
Amendment. See Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 86, 111; StandardOil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270,
286.
Upon this ground the judgment is reversed, and the case
is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
rfeversed.

