COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v, WOKO.
211

223

Syllabus.

It is said, however, that, having served his sentence, Fiswick may not be resentenced on a new trial and that, if
his conviction is reversed, he thereby escapes deportation.
The argument is that he thwarts the deportation policy
by electing to serve his sentence. We cannot assume,
however, that Fiswick is guilty of the conspiracy charged.
He was not accorded the trial to which he is entitled under
our system of government. The conviction which he suffered was not in accordance with law. The errors in the
trial impeach the conviction; and he must stand in the
position of any man who has been accused of a crime but
not yet shown to have committed it. To dismiss his case
as moot would permit the Government to compound its
error at Fiswick's expense. That course does not comport
with our standards of law enforcement.
Reversed.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
WOKO, INC.

COMMISSION v.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 65. Argued November 22, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
A corporation, which had operated a radio station for some years and
appeared to have rendered public service of acceptable quality and
to be able to continue, was denied a renewal of its license by the
Federal Communications Commission on the ground that it could
not be entrusted with the responsibilities of a licensee, because the
Commission found that it had misrepresented the true ownership
of its capital stock in applications and testimony before the Commission over a period of years. Held:
1. The denial of the license was not unlawful, arbitrary or capricious within the meaning of 47 U. S. C. § 402 (e), providing for
judicial review, even though the Commission failed to find that the
concealment was of material facts or had influenced the Commission
in making any decision or that it would have acted differently had it
known the true facts. Pp. 226, 227.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

2. The fact that stockholders owning slightly more than 50% of
its stock were not found to have had any part in or knowledge of
the deception cannot immunize the corporation from the consequences of the deception, though it may be a proper consideration
for the Commission in determining just and appropriate action.
P. 227.
3. That its action in this case constitutes a departure from the
course which the Commission has taken in dealing with misstatements and applications in other cases is a consideration appropriate
for the Commission in determining whether its action in this case
is too drastic; but the Commission is not bound to deal with all
cases at all times as it has dealt with some that seem comparable.
Pp. 227-228.
4. A denial of a license because of the insufficiency or deliberate
falsity of the information lawfully required to be furnished is not a
penalty and is not illegal, arbitrary or capricious within the meaning
of 47 U. S. C. § 402 (e). P. 228.
5. The fact that the Commission failed to make findings as to the
quality of the station's service in the past and its equipment for
good service in the future did not make its action arbitrary or
capricious in the circumstances of this case. Pp. 228-229.
6. The Commission is not required to grant a'license on a deliberately false application. P. 229.
7. It is the Commission, not the courts, which must be satisfied
that the public interest will be served by renewing a license. P. 229.
153 F. 2d 623, reversed.

The Federal Communications Commission refused to
renew the license of a radio station because of wilful misrepresentations to the Commission as to the ownership of
its stock. The United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia reversed. 153 F. 2d 623. This
Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 776. Reversed and
remanded to the Court of Appeals with direction to remand
to the Commission. P. 229.
HarryM. Plotkin argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,Stanley
M. Silverberg, Benedict P. Cottone and Max Goldman.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WOKO.
223

225

Opinion of the Court.

William J. Dempsey argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was William C. Koplovitz.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
WOKO, Incorporated, for some years has operated a
radio station at Albany, New York, and appears to have
rendered public service of acceptable quality and to be
able to continue. The Federal Communications Commission refused to renew its license because of misrepresentations made to the Commission and its predecessor as to
the ownership of the applicant's capital stock. Two hundred and forty shares, being twenty-four per cent of its
outstanding capital stock, was owned by one Pickard and
his family. For some twelve years they received all dividends paid on the stock and Pickard took an active interest
in the Company's affairs. He also was a vice-president
of the Columbia Broadcasting Company andhad obtained
the stock on the assurance that he would help to secure
Columbia affiliation for Station WOKO, would furnish,
without charge, Columbia engineers to construct the station at Albany, and would supply a grand piano and
certain newspaper publicity.
The company, however, in reporting to the Federal
Radio Commission and to the Federal Communications
Commission the names of its stockholders as it was required to do for many years and in many applications,
concealed the fact that the Pickards held this stock interest
and represented that the shares were held by others. Its
general manager appeared on behalf of the applicant at
various hearings and furnished false testimony to both
Commissions regarding the identity of the corporation
stockholders and the shares held by each so as to conceal
the Pickard holdings. The purpose of the concealment

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

was to prevent the facts from becoming known to Pickard's
Columbia colleagues.
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed the Commission's decision denying renewal of the
license, a majority for the various reasons that we will
consider. The dissenting Chief Justice noted that he did
"very heartily agree with the view that this is a hard case.
The Commission's drastic order, terminating the life of the
station, punishes the innocent equally with the guilty,
and in its results is.contrary to the Commission's action in
several other comparable cases. But that the making of
the order was within the discretion of the Commission, I
think is reasonably clear." 153 F. 2d 623, 633. We
granted certiorari because of the importance of the issue
to the administration of the Act.
We come to a consideration of the reasons which led
the Court of Appeals to reverse the order of the Commission under the admonition that "review by the court shall
be limited to questions of law and that findings of fact
by the Commission, if supported by substantial evidence,
shall be conclusive unless it shall clearly appear that the
findings of the Commission are arbitrary or capricious."
48 Stat. 1094,47 U. S. C. § 402 (e).
The Act provides as to applications such as WOKO filed
that "All such applications shall set forth such facts as
the Commission by regulation may prescribe as to the citizenship, character, and financial, technical, and other
qualifications of the applicant to operate the station: the
ownership and location of the proposed station . . . and
such other information as it may require." It requires
such statements to be under oath or affirmation. 48 Stat.
1085, 47 U. S. C. § 309 (b). It provides, too, that any
station license may be revoked for false statements in the
application. 48 Stat. 1086,47 U.S. C. § 312 (a).
It is said that in this case the Commission failed to find
,that the concealment was of material facts or had influ-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WOKO.
223

227

Opinion of the Court.

enced the Commission in making any decision, or that it
would have acted differently had it knovn that the Pickards were the beneficial owners of the stock. We think
this is beside the point. The fact of concealment may
be more significant than the facts concealed. The willingness to deceive a regulatory body may be disclosed by
immaterial and useless deceptions as well as by material
and persuasive ones. We do not think it is an answer to
say that the deception was unnecessary and served no
purpose. If the applicant had forthrightly refused to supply the information on the ground that it was not material,
we should expect the Commission would have rejected
the application and would have been sustained in so doing.
If we would hold it not unlawful, arbitrary or capricious
to require the information before granting a renewal, it
seems difficult to say that it is unlawful, arbitrary or capricious to refuse a renewal where true information is withheld and false information is substituted.
We are told that stockholders owning slightly more than
50 per cent of the stock are not found to have had any
part in or knowledge of the concealment or deception of
the Commission. This may be a very proper consideration for the Commission in determi'ning just and appropriate action. But as matter of law, the fact that there are
innocent stockholders can not immunize the corporation
from the conseqaencs of such deception. If officers of
the corporation by such mismanagement waste its assets,
presumably 'the State law affords adequate remedies
against the wrongdoers. But in this as in other matters,
stockholders entrust their interests to their chosen officers
and often suffer for their dereliction. Consequences of
such acts cannot be escaped by a corporation merely
because not all of its stockholders participated.
Respondent complains that the present case constitutes
a departure from the course which the, Commission has
taken in dealing with misstatements and applications in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

other cases. Much is made in argument of the fact that
deceptions of this character have not been uncommon and
it is claimed that they have not been dealt with so severely
as in this case. Cf. Navarro Broadcasting Association, 8
F. C. C. 198. But the very fact that temporizing and compromising with deception seemed not to discourage it, may
have led the Commission to the drastic measures here
taken to preserve the integrity of its own system of reports.
The mild measures to others and the apparently unannounced change of policy are considerations appropriate
for the Commission in determining whether its action in
this case is too drastic, but we cannot say that the Commission is bound by anything that appears before us to
deal with all cases at all times as it has dealt with some
that seem comparable.
It also is contended that this order inflicts a penalty, that
the motive is punishment and that since the Commission
is given no powers to penalize persons, its order must fall.
We think it unnecessary to indulge in the exposition of
what a penalty is. It is enough to decide this case to know
what a penalty is not. A denial of an application for a
license because of the insufficiency or deliberate falsity of
the information lawfully required to be furnished is not a
penal measure. It may hurt and it may cause loss, but it
is not made illegal, arbitiary or capricious by that fact.
Lastly, and more importantly, the Court of Appeals
suggested that in order to justify refusal to renew, the
Commission should have made findings with respect to the
quality of the station's service in the past and its equipment for good service in the future. Evidence of the station's adequate service was introduced at the hearing.
The Commission on the other hand insists that in administering the Act it must rely upon the reports of licensees.
It points out that this concealment was not caused by
slight inadvertence nor was it an isolated instance, but that

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WOKO.
223

229

Opinion of the Court.

the Station carried on the course of deception for approximately twelve years. It says that in deciding whether
the proposed operations would serve public interest, convenience or necessity, consideration must be given to the
character, background and training of all parties having
an interest in the proposed license, and that it cannot be
required to exercise the discretion vested in it to entrust
the responsibilities of a licensee to an applicant guilty of
a systematic course of deception.
We cannot say that the Commission is required as a
matter of law to grant a license on a deliberately false
application even if the falsity were not of this duration
and character, nor can we say that refusal to renew the
license is arbitrary and capricious under such circumstances. It may very well be that this Station has established such a standard of public service that the Commission would be justified in considering that its deception
was not a matter that affected its qualifications to serve
the public. But it is the Commission, not the courts,
which must be satisfied that the public interest will be
served by renewing the license. And the fact that we
might not have made the. same determination on the same
facts does not warrant a substitution of judicial for administrative discretion since Congress has confided the problem to the latter. We agree that this is a hard case, but
we cannot agree that it should be allowed to make bad
law.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case remanded to that court with direction to remand
to the Commission.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

