STEELE v. GENERAL MILLS.
424

Syllabus.

or in part except as specifically authorized by Congress.

Consequently, the Commission was without authority to

revoke Seatrain's certificate.

That certificate, properly

interpreted, authorized it to carry commodities generally,
including freight cars, on the routes for which the certifi-

cate originally issued.

The judgment of the District

Court is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.

STE ELE v. GENERAL MILLS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 79.

Argued December 18, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.

A motor carrier and a shipper entered into a written contract under
which the carrier was to transport goods for the shipper by truck
entirely within the State of Texas. On the basis of that contract,
the carrier obtained from the Texas Railroad Commission a permit
to operate as a contract carrier pursuant to rules promulgated by the
Commission .under Texas R. S., Art. 911 (b), §§ 1-22 (b) granting
regulatory power over transportation. The rules required contract
carriers to charge not less than the rate prescribed for common
motor carriers. Later, pursuant to a prearrangement and without
notice to the Commission, the parties entered into a supplemental
agreement under which the shipper actually paid the carrier lower
rates. About 312 years later, the carrier sued the shipper in a
Federal District Court to recover the difference between the rate
paid and the full rate fixed by the Commission. Held:
1. This Court cannot say that the District Court sitting in Texas
erred in holding that the cause of action was not barred by Art.
5526, Tex. R. S., which applies only to actions for debts not "evidenced by a contract in writing." P. 438.
2. Nor can this Court say that the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in interpreting the Texas law to render
void and unenforceable the supplemental agreement designed to
circumvent payment of the rates fixed by the Commission. P. 438.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

3. Nor will this Court disturb the interpretation placed upon
purely local law by a District Court sitting in Texas in holding that
the Commission's rate-fixing orders applied to the carrier's business,
that they were not subject to collateral attack in such a suit, and
that the carrier could not lawfully carry the shipper's goods at
lower rates-especially where these interpretations were well buttressed by state statutes and court decisions and the Circuit Court
of Appeals did not disagree with them. P. 439.
4. Under Texas law, no doctrine of estoppel or pari delicto can be
invoked to defeat payment of the full rate fixed by the Commission; and a different rule cannot be applied in the federal courts.
Pp.439-441.
154 F. 2d 367, reversed.

A carrier sued a shipper in a Federal District Court to
recover the difference between the rate actually paid for
the transportation of goods and a higher rate fixed by the
Railroad Commission of Texas pursuant to Tex. R. S.,
Art. 911 (b), §§ 1-22 (b). The District Court gave judgment for the carrier. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 154 F. 2d 367. This Cburt granted certiorari.
328 U. S. 830. The judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is
affirmed. P. 441.
Cecil A. Morgan argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was T. S. Christopher.

With

Alfred McKnight argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Charles E. France and Ira
Butler.
By special leave of Court, Elton M. Hyder argued the
cause for the State of Texas as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner and respondent entered into a written contract under which the petitioner was to transport goods for
respondent by truck entirely within the State of Texas at

STEELE v. GENERAL MILLS.
433

Opinion of the Court.

"such rates, charges or tariffs as may be fixed by the Railroad Commission of the State of Texas." Based on that
contract petitioner applied to the Commission for a permit
to operate as a contract carrier pursuant to rules of the
Railroad Commission promulgated under Texas law which
grants regulatory power over transportation to that Commission. Article 911b, §§ 1 to 22 (b), Rev. Stat. of
Tex. Petitioner's application stated that "the tariff to
be charged for the service proposed to be rendered will be
that as promulgated by the Railroad Commission of
Texas." After notice and hearing, at which petitioner
and a representative of respondent testified, the Commission made an order which stated that "after carefully considering the evidence, the laws and its own rules and
regulations," the Commission was of the opinion that "the
character of. business proposed to be done by the applicant
strictly conforms with the definition of a contract carrier."
The order directed that petitioner be granted a permit,
which was later issued, to transport goods for respondent in
Texas, but directed attention to the fact that the Commission's "tariffs and orders prescribed as a minimum
rate to be charged by contract carriers the rates prescribed
for common carrier motor carriers." Later, pursuant to a
prearrangement, the parties entered into a supplemental
agreement concerning which the Railroad Commission was
kept uninformed, in accordance with which respondent
actually paid petitioner for carriage of its goods less than
the rates prescribed for common motor carriers. About
three and a half years later the petitioner filed this suit,
of which the District Court had jurisdiction by reason
of diversity of citizenship, to recover the difference between the rate paid and the full rate fixed by prior general
orders of the Commission prescribing common carrier
rates as provided in the contract.
The respondent's answer admitted that it had paid less
than the tariff rate fixed in prior general orders, but denied

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

legal liability to pay that rate on several grounds. It
denied that respondent's rates were governed by the
Commission's prior general rate orders or by the special
order granting petitioner a permit as a contract carrier.
It also claimed that a state two-year statute of limitations
barred recovery for part of the amount claimed. It further alleged that petitioner had led respondent to believe
that his type of transportation was not subject to regulation by the Railroad Commission, and that no prior
general or special orders had fixed petitioner's transportation rates. In reliance upon the petitioner's representations, respondent alleged, it had entered into the supplemental agreement to pay less than the tariff rate here
claimed. Respondent pleaded that by this conduct petitioner was estopped from claiming that the Commission
had power to or had fixed a rate for petitioner's transportation, or from predicating his cause of action upon the
Commission's tariffs.
The District Court rejected all of respondent's contentions. Citing Texas statutes, court decisions, and the
Commission's practices, the District Court held that the
cause of action was not barred by the statute of limitations; that the Commission's prior general rate orders
governed the charges to be fixed by contract carriers such
as petitioner; that Texas law barred respondent from any
collateral attack on the validity of the orders; that had
the rate-fixing orders been directly attacked, as authorized by law, they would have been held valid; that shippers and carriers could not by private agreements defeat
the State's statutory purpose to require payments of
uniform transportation rates; that the original agreement
to pay the Commission-fixed rate was valid, and the supplemental agreement to pay less than that rate was void;
and that, under Texas law, petitioner was not estopped to
rely on the Commission's tariff in order to recover the full

STEELE v. GENERAL MILLS.
433

tariff rate.

Opinion of the Court.

Accordingly, the District Court directed the

jury to return a verdict for petitioner for the balance due

it under the Commission rate, and a judgment for the

petitioner was entered on that verdict.1
The Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting, reversed. 154 F. 2d 367. 'The majority concluded that
petitioner should not recover because the agreement to pay
less than the full rates was a subterfuge, that neither party

had any intention of living up to the agreement, and that
their conduct amounted to a fraud upon the Railroad
Commission, "contrary to good morals and that [it]
tended . . . to interfere with the purity of the administration of the law such as puts both parties in pari delicto
with no right to seek advantage or recovery . . ." on the
"spurious" contract. The dissenting judge did not
agree
that the records showed a deliberate purpose to evade the
statutes. He further thought that under controlling

Texas law and policy the doctrine of pari delicto could not
be applied so as to have the goods of a Texas shipper
hauled in Texas at a less rate than the others were compelled to pay by law. All the judges agreed, however,
that the agreement to pay less than the Commission-fixed.
rates was void.
1 The court permitted respondent to offer evidence intended to

show that the petitioner's contract carriage was neither in competition with common carriers nor substantially the same type of services as common carriers performed.. This evidence was offered to
support respondent's contention that the Commission was without
jurisdiction to fix petitioner's rates because, as respondent urged,
§ 6 aa of the State motor carrier law limited its power to fix contract carrier rates to motor carriers that did compete with or perform
substantially the same services as common carriers. These two questions were submitted to the jury, and they made special findings on
the issues in respondent's favor. The district court later directed the
jury to find for petitioner despite these findings, holding, as set out
in the opinion, that the Commission's orders were valid and beyond
collateral attack in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

On petitioner's motion for rehearing, the State Attorney
General intervened. He contended that the court's decision ran counter to the State's long-established policy
against discriminatory transportation rate-cutting, and
that if the judgment stood, it would impair the integrity of
the State's regulatory system, a primary purpose of which
was, he argued, to assure uniform rates to all shippers for
substantially the same transportation service. In its
opinion denying rehearing, the court reaffirmed its former
holding and stated that this was "a suit by one party, in
particepscriminis, against another in like situation, under
a fully completed contract, wherein it was sought to penalize one party to the extent of $37,000.00 and to reward the
prime offender in like amount." Whether the Circuit
Court of Appeals' judgment does undermine the transportation policy of Texas is a question of such importance
that we granted certiorari to review the case. 328
U. S. 830.
The District Court specifically held that no part of the
claim sued on was barred by the Texas statute of limitations and the Circuit Court of Appeals did not discuss the
question. Article 5526 of the Revised Statutes of Texas,
on which respondent relies, by its language applies only to
actions for debts not "evidenced by a contract in writing."
The contract here sued on was "in writing." Respondent
has cited no Texas decisions which have considered this
statute to be a bar to suits on contracts such as the one here
involved. We cannot say that the District Court sitting in
Texas erred in holding that no part of the claim was barred
by Article 5526. See Texarkana & Ft. S. R. Co. v.
Houston Gas & Fuel Co., 121 Tex. 594, 51 S. W. 2d 284.
Nor can we say that the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in interpreting Texas law to render
the supplemental agreement between petitioner and respondent, designed to circumvent payment of Commission-fixed rates, void and unenforceable. The District

STEELE v. GENERAL MILLS.
433

,

Opinion of the Court.

Court's holdings that the Commission's rate-fixing orders
applied to petitioner's business, that they were not subject
under Texas law to the collateral attack here made, and
that petitioner could not carry respondent's goods at less
than the rates fixed were well buttressed by state statutes
and court decisions.2 No arguments here made by respondent, or state decisions on which it relies, refute the
District Court's reasoning or conclusion. The Circuit
Court of Appeals has not disagreed with this holding of the
District Court sitting in Texas. Under these circumstances we shall leave undisturbed the interpretation
placed upon purely local law by a Texas federal judge.
MacGregor v. State Mutual Life Assurance Co., 315 U. S.
280; Henderson Co. v. Thompson, 300 U. S. 258, 266;
Thompson v. Consolidated Gas Co., 300 U. S. 55, 74-75.
Therefore we can proceed to consider whether the Circuit
Court erred in holding that respondent could escape payment of the Commission-fixed rates by application of the
doctrine of pari delicto.
Respondent does not refute what the Texas courts have
frequently decided, that agreements by railroads to-cut
charges to below tariff rates are unlawful and that no doctrine of estoppel or pari delicto can be invoked to defeat
payment of the full tariff rate. In Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Yates, 139 Tex. 89, 93, 161 S. W. 2d 1050, 1052, the
Texas court said, "In a word the purpose of our statutes,
2 The District Court cited the following authorities to support its
position: Art. 911b Rev. Stat. of Tex.; General Order No. 25, R. R,
Comm'n of Tex., Aug. 22,1931; Texas Steel Co. v. Ft. Worth & Denver
C. R. Co., 120 Tex. 597, 40 S. W. 2d 78; Greer v. Railroad Comm'n
(Tex. Civ. App.) 117 S. W. 2d 142; St. Louis, I. .l. & S. R. Co. v.
Landa & Storey (Tex. Civ. App.) 187 S. W. 358; Railroad Commnn' v.
Uvalde Construction Co. (Tex. Civ. App.) 49 S. W. 2d 1113; Alpha
Petroleutn Co. v. Terrell. 122 Tex. 257, 59 S. W. 2d 364; lingus v.
Wadley, 115 Tex. 551, 285 S.W. 1084. It also cited the following
federal cases: Burford v. Sun Oil Co.. 319 U. S. 315; Umitcd Fuel Gas
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 278 U. S.300.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

as they relate to intrastate freight rates, is in every essential respect the same as that of the Federal statutes which
we had under consideration in Houston & T. C. R. Co. v.
Johnson, Tex. Com. App., 41 S. W. 2d 14, 83 A. L. R. 241."
Just as 49 U. S. C. § 41 (3) prohibits rebate and similar
devices which might undermine interstate transportation
rate systems. so Art. 1690 (b), § (i) of the Penal Code of
Texas makes it unlawful for motor carriers to charge less
than Commission-fixed rates, and Art. 1687 makes it unlawful for railroads to engage in the same practice. No
Texas decisions referred to by the Circuit Court of Appeals
or by the respondent here indicate that the State's public
policy is any different or less effective in protecting the
integrity of motor carrier rates than railroad rates. The
Texas motor carrier legislation was designed to be a part
of a state transportation regulatory system applicable
alike to all lines of transportation which represents a
"studied effort . . . to prevent, through regulation, unfair, discriminatory, or destructive competition between
such authorized carriers as would ultimately impair their
usefulness." Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n
(Tex. Civ. App.) 138 S. W. 2d 927, 931, reversed on other
grounds, 138 Tex. 148, 157 S. W. 2d 622. Cf. Stephenson
v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 272-273.
Under Texas law the payment of Commission-fixed carrier rates is not merely a private obligation between shippers and carriers. The duty to pay is a public one, Houston
& T. C. R. Co. v. Johnson (Tex. Com. App.) 41 S. W. 2d
14. And, as said in the Yates case, supra, with reference
to a railroad, no carrier can "by means of estoppel 'or by
any other device' escape the performance of this public
duty." While the doctrine of pari delicto might be applied in Texas to some types of contracts so as to defeat
recovery, see Wright v. Wight & Wight (Tex. Civ. App.)
229 S. W. 881, we are satisfied that the Circuit Court of

BOARD OF GOVERNORS v. AGNEW.
433

44i

Syllabus.

Appeals erred in holding that Texas courts would apply
it in this case. Application of the doctrine of paridelicto
in this proceeding, therefore, where the federal court has
jurisdiction by reason of diversity, would result in applying a rule of law in the federal courts different from the
rule we believe has been applicable in the state courts.
Such a result cannot be approved. Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed. It is
so ordered.
Reversed.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE SYSTEM ET AL. v. AGNEW ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 66. Argued December 10, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.
1. An order issued under § 30 of the Banking Act of 1933 by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System removing a
director of a national bank from office for continuing violations of
law after having been warned to desist is subject to judicial review;
and a district court is authorized to enjoin the removal if the Board
acts beyond the limits of its statutory authority. P. 444.
2. Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits, inter alia, any
employee of any partnership "primarily engaged" in the underwriting or distribution of securities from serving at the same time
as director of a member bank of the Federal Reserve System.
Respondents were directors of a member bank and employees of
a partnership which held itself out as being "Underwriters, Distributors . .. and Brokers" in securities, was actively getting what
business it could in the underwriting field, and one year ranked
9th among 94 leading investment bankers with respect to its total
participations in underwritings. Its gross income from the underwriting field ranged from 26% to 39%, and its gross income from
the brokerage business ranged from 40% to 47%, of its gross income

