FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
Syllabus.

452

concise statement" of the point as required by Rule 75 (d)
of the Rules of Civil Procedure. Respondent argues that
the question was properly raised, though not specifically,
by its general point that "the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur
is not applicable to the facts of this case." We cannot
hold that the Circuit Court erred when it refused to consider the question because of respondent's failure to
comply with Rule 75 (d).
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
TICE BURTON would affirm on the grounds

and MR. JUSstated in the

opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First

Circuit.
LOUISIANA

EX REL.

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER,

SHERIFF, ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 142.

Argued November 18, 1946.-Decided January 13, 1947.

Petitioner was convicted in a state court of murder and sentenced to
be electrocuted. A warrant for his execution was duly issued. He
was prepared for electrocution, placed in the electric chair and subjected to a shock which was intended to cause his death but which
failed to do so, presumably because of some mechanical difficulty.
He was removed from the chair and returned to prison; but another

warrant for his execution at a later date was issued. Held:
1. Assuming, but not deciding, that violations of the principles of
the double jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment and the
cruel and unusual punishment provision of the Eighth Amendment
would violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment(a) The proposed execution would not violate the double

jeopardy clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 462.
(b) It would not violate the cruel and unusual punishment
clause of the Eighth Amendment. P. 463.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

REED, J.

329 U. S.

2. The proposed execution would not violate the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 465.
3. The record of the original trial, showing the warrant of arrest,
the indictment, the appointment of counsel, and the minute entries
of trial, selection of jury, verdict and sentence, contains nothing on
which this Court could conclude that the constitutional rights of
petitioner were infringed at the trial. P. 465.
Affirmed.

The Supreme Court of Louisiana denied petitioner's
applications for writs of certiorari, mandamus, prohibition
and habeas corpus to prevent a second attempt to execute
him for murder. This Court granted certiorari. 328
U. S. 833. Affirmed, p. 466.
James Skelly Wright argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Robert E. Kline, Jr. and John
L. Ingold8by, Jr.
Michael E. Culligan and L. 0. Pecot argued the cause
and filed a brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED announced the judgment of the Court
in an opinion in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
BLACK and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join.

This writ of certiorari brings before this Court a unique
situation. The petitioner, Willie Francis, is a colored citizen of Louisiana. He was duly convicted of murder and
in September, 1945, sentenced to be electrocuted for the
crime. Upon a proper death warrant, Francis was prepared for execution and on May 3, 1946, pursuant to the
warrant, was placed in the official electric chair of the State
of Louisiana in the presence of the authorized witnesses.
The executioner threw the switch but, presumably because
of some mechanical difficulty, death did not result. He
was thereupon removed from the chair and returned to
prison where he now is. A new death warrant was issued

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

Opinion of

REED, J.

by the Governor of Louisiana, fixing the execution for
May 9, 1946.
Applications to the Supreme Court of the state were
filed for writs of certiorari, mandamus, prohibition and
habeas corpus, directed to the appropriate officials in the
state. Execution of the sentence was stayed. By the
applications petitioner claimed the protection of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment on the
ground that an execution under the circumstances detailed
would deny due process to him because of the double jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment and the cruel and
unusual punishment provision of the Eighth Amendment.1
These federal constitutional protections, petitioner
claimed, would be denied because he had once gone
through the difficult preparation for execution and had
once received through his body a current of electricity
intended to cause death. The Supreme Court of Louisiana denied the applications on the ground of a lack
of any basis for judicial relief. That is, the state
court concluded there was no violation of state or national
law alleged in the various applications. It spoke of the
fact that no "current of sufficient intensity to cause death"
passed through petitioner's body. It referred specifically
to the fact that the applications of petitioner invoked the
provisions of the Louisiana Constitution against cruel and
inhuman punishments and putting one in jeopardy of life
or liberty twice for the same offense. We granted certiorari on a petition setting forth the aforementioned contentions, to consider the alleged violations of rights under the
Federal Constitution in the unusual circumstances of this
case. 328 U. S.833. For matters of state law, the opinI Fifth Amendment: ". .

nor shall any person be subject for the

same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; . . ."
Eighth Amendment: "Excessive bail shall not be required, nor
excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

REED, J.

329 U. S.

ion and order of the Supreme Court of Louisiana are binding on this Court, Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 317.
So far as we are aware, this case is without precedent in
any court.
To determine whether or not the execution of the petitioner may fairly take place after the experience through
which he passed, we shall examine the circumstances under the assumption, but without so deciding, that violation
of the principles of the Fifth and Eighth Amendments, as
to double jeopardy and cruel and unusual punishment,
would be violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment 2 As nothing has been brought to our
attention to suggest the contrary, we must and do assume
that the state officials carried out their duties under the
death warrant in a careful and humane manner. Accidents
happen for which no man is to blame. We turn to the
question as to whether the proposed enforcement of the
criminal law of the state is offensive to any constitutional
requirements to which reference has been made.
First. Our minds rebel against permitting the same
sovereignty to punish an accused twice for the same offense. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 168, 175; In re
Bradley, 318 U. S. 50. Compare United States v. Lanza,
260 U. S. 377, 382. But where the accused successfully
seeks review of a conviction, there is no double jeopardy
upon a new trial. United States v. Ball, 163 U. S. 662,
672. See People v. Trezza, 128 N. Y. 529, 535, 28 N. E.
533. Even where a state obtains a new trial after conviction because of errors, while an accused may be placed on
trial a second time, it is not the sort of hardship to the
accused that is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.
2 See Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U S. 78, 99; Palko v. Connecticut,
302 U. S. 319, 324; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 445; Collins v.

Johnston, 237 U. S. 502, 510.

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

Opinion of REED, J.

Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 328.' As this is a
prosecution under state law, so far as double jeopardy is
concerned, the Palko case is decisive. For we see no difference from a constitutional point of view between a new
trial for error of law at the instance of the state that results
in a death sentence instead of imprisonment for life and an
execution that follows a failure of equipment. When an
accident, with no suggestion of malevolence, prevents the
consummation of a sentence, the state's subsequent course
in the administration of its criminal law is not affected on
that account by any requirement of due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment.
We find no double jeopardy
here which can be said to amount to a denial of federal due
process in the proposed execution.
Second. We find nothing in what took place here which
amounts to cruel and unusual punishment in the constitutional sense. The case before us does not call for
an examination into any punishments except that of
death. See Weems v. United States, 217 U. S. 349.
The traditional humanity of modern Anglo-American law
forbids the infliction of unnecessary pain in the execution
of the death sentence. Prohibition against the wanton
infliction of pain has come into our law from the Bill of
Rights of 1688. The identical words appear in our Eighth
Amendment. The Fourteenth would prohibit by its due
process clause execution by a state in a cruel manner.4
s See Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 129; cf. United States v.
Ball, 163 U. S. 662, 666-70.

4This Court said of a similar clause embodied in the constitution of
New York, In re Kemmier, 136 U. S. 436,446:
". .. but the language in question as used in the constitution of
the State of New York was intended particularly to operate upon
the legislature of the State, to whose. control the punishment of
crime was almost wholly confided. So that, if the punishment
prescribed for an offence against the laws of the State were mani-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

REED, J.

329 U. S.

Petitioner's suggestion is that because he once underwent the psychological strain of preparation for electrocution, now to require him to undergo this preparation
again subjects him to a lingering or cruel and unusual
punishment. Even the fact that petitioner has already
been subjected to a current of electricity does not make his
subsequent execution any more cruel in the constitutional
sense than any other execution. The cruelty against
which the Constitution protects a convicted man is cruelty
inherent in the method of punishment, not the necessary
suffering involved in any method employed to extinguish
life humanely. The fhct that an unforeseeable accident
prevented the prompt consummation of the sentence cannot, it seems to us, add an element of cruelty to a subsequent execution. There is no purpose to inflict unnecessary pain nor any unnecessary pain involved in the
proposed execution. The situation of the unfortunate
victim of this accident is just as though he had suffered the
identical amount of mental anguish and physical pain in
any other occurrence, such as, for example, a fire in the cell
block. We cannot agree that the hardship imposed upon
the petitioner rises to that level of hardship denounced as
denial of due process because of cruelty.
festly cruel and unusual, as burning at the stake, crucifixion,
breaking on the wheel, or the like, it would be the duty of the
courts to adjudge such penalties to be within the constitutional
prohibition."
It added, p. 447:
"Punishments are cruel when they involve torture or a lingering
death; but the punishment of death is not cruel, within the
meaning of that word as used in the Constitution. It implies
there something inhuman and barbarous, something more than
the mere extinguishment of life."
Louisiana has the same humane provision in its constitution. Louisiana Constitution, Art. I, ยง 12. The Kemmler case denied that electrocution infringed the federal constitutional rights of a convicted
criminal sentenced to execution.

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

Opinion of REED, J.

Third. The Supreme Court of Louisiana also rejected
petitioner's contention that death inflicted after his prior
sufferings would deny him the equal protection of the laws,
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. This suggestion in so far as it differs from the due process argument
is based on the idea that execution, after an attempt at
execution has failed, would be a more severe punishment
than is imposed upon others guilty of a like offense. That
is, since others do not go through the strain of preparation
for execution a second time or have not experienced a nonlethal current in a prior attempt at execution, as petitioner
did, to compel petitioner to submit to execution after these
prior experiences denies to him equal protection. Equal
protection does not protect a prisoner against even illegal
acts of officers in charge of him, much less against accidents
during his detention for execution. See Lisenba v. California,314 U. S. 219, 226. Laws cannot prevent accidents
nor can a-law equally protect all against them. So longas the law applies to all alike, the requirements of equal
protection are met. We have no right to assume that
Louisiana singled out Francis for a treatment other than
that which has been or would generally be applied.
Fourth. There is a suggestion in the brief that the original trial itself was so unfair to the petitioner as to justify a
reversal of the judgment of conviction and a new trial.
Petitioner's claim in his brief is that he was inadequately
represented by counsel. The record of the original trial
presented to us shows the warrant for arrest, the indictment, the appointment of counsel and the minute entries
of trial, selection of jury, verdict and sentence. There is
nothing in any of these papers to show any violation of
petitioner's constitutional rights. See Carter v. Illinois,
329 U. S. 173. Review is sought here because of a
denial of due process of law that would be brought about
by execution of petitioner after failure of the first effort to
electrocute him. Nothing is before us upon which a ruling

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

can be predicated as to alleged denial of federal constitutional rights during petitioner's trial. On this record, we
see nothing upon which we could conclude that the
constitutional rights of petitioner were infringed.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

When four members of the Court find that a State has
denied to a person the due process which the Fourteenth
Amendment safeguards, it seems to me important to be
explicit regarding the criteria by which the State's duty
of obedience to the Constitution must be judged. Particularly is this so when life is at stake.
Until July 28, 1868, when the Fourteenth Amendment
was ratified, the Constitution of the United States left
the States free to carry out their own notions of criminal
justice, except insofar as they were limited by Article I,
ยง 10 of the Constitution which declares: "No State
shall . . .pass any Bill of Attainder, [or] ex post facto
Law . . ." The Fourteenth Amendment placed no spe-

cific restraints upon the States in the formulation or the
administration of their criminal law. It restricted the
freedom of the States generally, so that States thereafter
could not "abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States," or "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law," or "deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws."
These are broad, inexplicit clauses of the Constitution,
unlike specific provisions of the first eight amendments
formulated by the Founders to guard against recurrence
of well-defined historic grievances. But broad as these
clauses are, they are not generalities of empty vagueness. They are . circumscribed partly by history and
partly by the problems of government, large and dynamic

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

FRANKFURTER,

J.,

concurring.

though they be, with which they are concerned. The
"privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States"
concern the dual citizenship under our federal system.
The safeguards of "due process of law" and "the equal
protection of the laws" summarize the meaning of the
struggle for freedom of English-speaking peoples. They
run back to Magna Carta but contemplate no less advances in the conceptions of justice and freedom by a
progressive society. See the classic language of Mr.
Justice Matthews in Hurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516,
530-31.
When, shortly after its adoption, the Fourteenth
Amendment came before this Court for construction, it
was urged that the "privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States" which were not to be abridged by
any State were the privileges and immunities which citizens theretofore enjoyed under the Constitution. If that
view had prevailed, the Privileges or Immunities Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment would have placed upon
the States the limitations which the specific articles of
the first eight amendments had theretofore placed upon
the agencies of the national government. After the fullest
consideration that view was rejected. The rejection has
the authority that comes from contemporaneous knowledge of the purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment. See
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 67-68; Davidson v.
New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97. The notion that the Privileges
or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
absorbed, as it is called, the provisions of the Bill of Rights
that limit the Federal Government has never been gi %cn
countenance by this Court.
Not until recently was it suggested that the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was merely a compendious reference to the Bill of Rights whereby the
States were now restricted in devisin; and enforcing their
penal code precisely as is the Federal Government by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFIURTER, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

first eight amendments. On this view, the States would
be confined in the enforcement of their criminal codes by
those views for safeguarding the rights of the individual
which were deemed necessary in the eighteenth century.
Some of these safeguards have perduring validity. Some
grew out of transient experience or formulated remedies
which time might well improve. The Fourteenth Amendment did not mean to imprison the States into the limited
experience of the eighteenth century. It did mean to
withdraw from the States the right to act in ways that
are offensive to a decent respect for the dignity of man,
and heedless of his freedom.
These are very broad terms by which to accommodate
freedom and authority. As has been suggested from time
to time, they may be too large to serve as the basis for
adjudication, in that they allow much room for individual
notions of policy. That is not our concern. The fact is
that the duty of such adjudication on a basis no less narrow
has been committed to this Court.
In an impressive body of decisions this Court has decided that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment expresses a demand for civilized standards
which are not defined by the specifically enumerated guarantees of the Bill of Rights. They neither contain the
particularities of the first eight amendments nor are they
confined to them. That due process of law has its own
independent function has been illustrated in numerous
decisions, and has been expounded in the opinions of the
Court which have canvassed the matter most thoroughly.
See Hurtado v. California,supra; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78; Snyder v. Massachusetts,291 U. S. 97; Palko
v. Connecticut, 302 U. S.319. Insofar as due process
under the Fourteenth Amendment requires the States to
observe any of the immunities "that are valid as against
the federal government by force of the specific pledges of
particular amendments," it does so because they "have

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

been found to be implicit in the concept of ordered liberty,
and thus, through the Fourteenth Amendment, become
valid as against the states." Palko v. Connecticut, supra,
at 324-25.
The Federal Bill of Rights requires that prosecutions
for federal crimes be initiated by a grand jury and tried
by a petty jury; it protects an accused from being a witness
against himself. The States are free to consult their own
conceptions of policy in dispensing with the grand jury,
in modifying or abolishing the petty jury, in withholding
the privilege against self-crimination. See Maxwell v.
Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Twining v. New Jersey, supra;
Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra; Palko v. Connecticut,
supra, at 323, 324; cf. Feldman v. United States, 322
U. S. 487. In short, the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment did not withdraw the freedom
of a State to enforce its own notions of fairness in
the administration of criminal justice unless, as it was
put for the Court by Mr. Justice Cardozo; "in so doing
it offends some principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental." Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra, at 105.
A State may offend such a principle of justice by brutal
subjectiorr of an individual to successive retrials on a
charge on which he has been acquitted. Such conduct
by a State might be a denial of due process, but not
because the protection against double jeopardy in a federal
prosecution against which the Fifth Amendment safeguards limits a State. For the disputations that are
engendered by technical aspects of double jeopardy as
enshrined in the Fifth Amendment, see the majority and
dissenting opinions in Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163. and
In re Bradley, 318 U. S. 50. Again, a State mQy be found
to deny a person due process by treating even one guilty of
crime in a manner that violates standards of decency more
or less universally accepted though not when it treats him

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

by a mode about which opinion is fairly divided. But the
penological policy of a State is not to be tested by the
scope of the Eighth Amendment and is not involved
in the controversy which is necessarily evoked by that
Amendment as to the historic meaning of "cruel and unusual punishment." See Weems v. United States, 217
U. S. 349, and particularly the dissenting opinion of White
and Holmes, JJ.
Once we are explicit in stating the problem before us
in terms defined by an unbroken series of decisions, we
cannot escape acknowledging that it involves the application of standards of fairness and justice very broadly
conceived. They are not the application of merely personal standards but the impersonal standards of society
which alone judges, as the organs of Law, are empowered to enforce. When the standards for judicial judgment are not narrower than "immutable principles of
justice which inhere ihi the very idea of free government,"
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389, "fundamental
principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of
all our civil and political institutions," Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 316, "immunities . . . implicit in the
concept of ordered lib..rty," Palko v. Connecticut, supra,
at 324-25, great tolerance toward a State's conduct is
demanded of this Court. Such were recently stated to
be "the controlling principles." See Mr. Chief Justice
Stone in Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401, 438, in
connection with the concurring opinion in that case, ibid.,
412,416,417.
I cannot bring myself to believe that for Louisiana to
leave to executive clemency, rather than to require, mitigation of a sentence of death duly pronounced upon conviction for murder because a first attempt to carry it out
was an innocent misadventure, offends a principle of justice "rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people."
See Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra, at 105. Short of

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

the compulsion of such a principle, this Court must abstain from interference with State action no matter how
strong one's personal feeling of revulsion against a State's
insistence on its pound of flesh. One must be on guard
against finding in personal disapproval a reflection of more
or less prevailing condemnation. Strongly drawn as I am
to some of the sentiments expressed by my brother BURTON, I cannot rid myself of the conviction that were I- to
hold that Louisiana would transgress the Due Process
Clause if the State were allowed, in the precise circumstances before us, to carry out the death sentence, I would
be enforcing my private view rather than that consensus
of society's opinion which, for purposes of due process, is
the standard enjoined by the Constitution.
The fact that I reach this conclusion does not mean
that a hypothetical situation, which assumes a series of
abortive attempts at electrocution or even a single, cruelly
willful attempt, would not raise different questions.
When the Fourteenth Amendment first came here for
application the Court abstained from venturing even a
tentative definition of due process. With wise forethought it indicated that what may be found within or
without the Due Process Clause must inevitably be left
to "the gradual process of judicial inclusion and exclusion,
as the cases presented for decision shall require, with
the reasoning on which such decisions may be founded."
Davidson v. New Orleans, supra, at 104. This is another
way of saying that these are matters which depend on
"differences of degree. The whole law does so as soon
as it is civilized." Holmes, J., in LeRoy Fibre Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co., 232 U. S. 340, 354. Especially is
this so as to questions arising under the Due Process
Clause. A finding that in this case the State of Louisiana
has not gone beyond its powers is for me not the starting
point for abstractly logical extension. Since I cannot say
that it would be "repugnant to the conscience of mankind,"

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

Palko v. Connecticut, supra,at 323, for Louisiana to exercise the power on which she here stands, I cannot say that
the Constitution withholds it.
with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur,

MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

Ma.

JUSTICE MURPHY

dissenting.
Under circumstances unique in judicial history, the
relator asks this Court to stay his execution on the ground
that it will violate the due process of law guaranteed
to him by the Constitution of the United States. We
believe that the unusual facts before us require that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana be vacated
and that this cause be remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion. Those proceedings
should include the determination of certain material facts
not previously determined, including the extent, if any,
to which electric current was applied to the relator during
his attempted electrocution on May 3, 1946. Where life
is to be taken, there must be no avoidable error of law or
uncertainty of fact.
The relator's execution was ordered by the Governor of
Louisiana to take place May 3, 1946. Of the proceedings
on that day, the Supreme Court of Louisiana has said:
. . . between the Hours of 12:00 o'clock noon and
3:00 o'clock p. m., Willie Francis was strapped in the
electric chair and an attempt was made to electrocute
him, but, because of some defect in the apparatus
devised and used for electrocutions, the contrivance
failed to function, and after an unsuccessful attempt
to electrocute Francis he was removed from the
chair."
Of the same proceedings, the State's brief says:
"Through a latent electrical defect, the attempt to
electrocute Francis failed, the State contending no

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

BURoN, J., dissenting.

current whatsoever reached Francis' body, the relator
contending a current of electricity did pass through
his body; but in any event, Willie Francis was not put
to death."
On May 8, the death warrant was canceled, and the
relator's execution has been stayed pending completion of
these proceedings. The Governor proposes to issue another death warrant for the relator's electrocution and the
relator now asks this Court to prevent it for the reason
that, under the present unique circumstances, his electrocution will be so cruel and unusual as to violate the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
That Amendment provides: "nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law; . . . ." When this was adopted in 1868,
there long had been imbedded deeply in the standards of
this nation a revulsion against subjecting guilty persons
to torture culminating in death. Preconstitutional American history reeked with cruel punishment to such an extent that, in 1791, the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States expressly imposed upon federal
agencies a mandate that "Excessive bail shall not be
required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted." Louisiana and many other
states have adopted like constitutional provisions. See
Section 12 of Article I of the Constitution of Louisiana
(1921).
The capital case before us presents an instance of the
violation of constitutional due process that is more clear
than would be presented by many lesser punishments prohibited by the Eighth Amendment or its state counterparts. Taking human life by unnecessarily cruel means
shocks the most fundamental instincts of civilized man.
It should not be possible under the constitutional proce-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BUrTON, J., dissenting.

329 V. S.

dure of a self-governing people. Abhorrence of the cruelty
of ancient forms of capital punishment has increased
steadily until, today, some states have prohibited capital
punishment altogether. It is unthinkable that any state
legislature in modern times would enact a statute expressly authorizing capital punishment by repeated applications of an electric current separated by intervals
of days or hours until finally death shall result. The
Legislature of Louisiana did not dlo so. The Supreme
Court of Louisiana did not say that it did. The Supreme
Court of Louisiana said merely that the pending petitions
for relief in this case presented an executive rather than a
judicial question and, by that mistake of law, it precluded
itself from discussing the constitutional issue before us.
In determining whether the proposed procedure is unconstitutional, we must measure it against a lawful electrocution. The contrast is that between instantaneous death
and death by installments-caused by electric shocks administered after one or more intervening periods of complete consciousness of the victim. Electrocution, when
instantaneous, can be inflicted by a state in conformity
with due process of law. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has held that electrocution, in the manner prescribed in its statute, is more humane than hanging.

State ex rel. Pierrev. Jones, 200 La.

807, 9 So. 2d 42, cert. denied, 317 U. S.633. See also,
Malloy v. South Carolina,237 U. S.180.

The all-important consideration is that the execution
shall be so instantaneous and substantially painless that
the punishment shall be reduced, as nearly as possible, to
no more than that of death itself. Electrocution has been
approved only in a form that eliminates suffering.
The Louisiana statute makes this clear. It provides
that:
"Every sentence of death imposed in this State
shall be by electrocution; that is, causing to pass

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

BuRToN, J., dissenting.

through the body of the person convicted a current
of electricity of sufficient intensity to cause death, and
the application and continuance of such current
through the body of the person convicted until such
person is dead. . . ." La. Code of Criminal Procedure (1928), Act No. 2, Art. 569, as amended by ยง 1,
Act No. 14, 1940.
It does not provide for electrocution by interrupted or
repeated applications of electric current at intervals of
several days or even minutes. It does not provide for the
application of electric current of an intensity less than that
sufficient to cause death. It prescribes expressly and
solely for the application of a current of sufficient intensity
to cause death and for the continuance of that application
until death results. Prescribing capital punishment, it
should be construed strictly. There can be no implied
provision for a second, third or multiple application of the
current. There is no statutory or judicial precedent
upholding a delayed process of electrocution.
These considerations were emphasized in In re Kemmler,
supra, when an early New York statute authorizing electrocution was attacked as violative of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because prescribing
a cruel and unusual punishment. In upholding that statute, this Court stressed the fact that the electric current
was to cause instantaneous death. Like the Louisiana
statute before us, that statute called expressly for the continued application of a sufficient electric current to cause
death. It was the resulting "instantaneous" and "painless" death that was referred to as "humane."
After quoting the New York County and Supreme
Courts, this Court quoted the New York Court of Appeals,
at 119 N. Y. 579, as follows:
"'We have examined this testimony and can find but
little in it to warrant the belief that this new mode
of execution is cruel, within the meaning of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

stitution, though it is certainly unusual. On the
contrary, we agree with the court below that it removes every reasonable doubt that the application
of electricity to the vital parts of the human body,
under such conditions and in the manner contemplated by the statute, must result in instantaneous,
and consequently in painless, death.' " (Italics supplied.) In re Kemmler, supra, at 443-444.
Finally, speaking for itself, this Court said:
"Punishmentsare cruel when they involve torture or
a lingering death; but the punishment of death is not
cruel, within the meaning of that word as used in the
Constitution. It implies there something inhuman
and barbarous, something more than the mere extinguishment of life." (Italics supplied.) Id. at
447.
If the state officials deliberately and intentionally had
placed the relator in the electric chair five times and, each
time, had applied electric current to his body in a manner
not sufficient, until the final time, to.kill him, such a form
of torture would rival that of burning at the stake. Although the failure of the first attempt, in the present case,
was unintended, the reapplication of the electric current
will be intentional. How many deliberate and intentional
reapplications of electric current does it take to produce a
cruel, unusual and unconstitutional punishment? While
five applications would be more cruel and unusual than
one, the uniqueness of the present case demonstrates that,
today, two separated applications are sufficiently "cruel
and unusual" to be prohibited. If five attempts would be
"cruel and unusual," it would be difficult to draw the line
between two, three, four and five. It is not difficult, however, as we here contend, to draw the line between the one
continuous application prescribed by statute and any other
application of the current.

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

BURTON, J., dissenting.

Lack of intent that the first application be less than fatal
is not material. The intent of the executioner cannot
lessen the torture or excuse the result. It was the statutory duty of the state officials to make sure that there was
no failure. The procedure in this case contrasts with
common knowledge of precautions generally taken elsewhere to insure against failure of electrocutions. The
high standard of care generally taken evidences the significance properly attached to the unconditional requirement of a single continued application of the current until
death results. In our view of this case, we are giving careful recognition to the law of Louisiana. Neither the Legislature nor the Supreme Court of Louisiana has expressed
approval of electrocution other than by one continuous
application of a lethal current.
Executive clemency provides a common means of avoiding unconstitutional or otherwise questionable executions.
When, however, the unconstitutionality of proposed executive procedure is brought before this Court, as in this case,
we should apply the constitutional protection. In this
case, final recourse is had to the high trusteeship vested in
this Court by the people of the United States over the
constitutional process by which their own lives may be
taken.
In determining whether a case of cruel and unusual punishment constitutes a violation of due process of law, each
case must turn upon its particular facts. The record in this
case is not limited to an instance where a prisoner was
placed in the electric chair and released before being subjected to the electric current. It presents more than a case
of mental anguish, however severe such a case might be.
The petition to the Supreme Court of Louisiana expressly
states that a current of electricity .was caused to pass
through the body of the relator. This allegation was de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

nied in the answer and no evidence was presented by either
side. The Supreme Court of Louisiana thereupon undertook to decide the case on the pleadings. It said:
"Our conclusion is that the complaint made by the
relator is a matter over which the courts have no
authority. Inasmuch as the proceedings had in the
district court, up to and including the pronouncing
of the sentence of death, were entirely regular, we
have no authority to set aside the sentence and release
the relator from the sheriff's custody." '
This statement assumed that the relief sought in the
Supreme Court of Louisiana was only a review of the
judicial proceedings in the lower state courts prior to the
passing of sentence upon the relator on September -14,
1945. On the contrary, the issue raised there and here
primarily concerns the action of state officials on and after
May 3, 1946, in connection with their past and proposed
attempts to electrocute the relator. This issue properly
presents a federal constitutional question based on the
impending deprivation of the life of the relator by executive officials of the State of Louisiana in a manner alleged
1 That

court, in discussing the pleadings, also said:

"In this latter answer or opposition it is admitted that the attempt
was made to electrocute Willie Francis on May 3, 1946, in obedience of the death warrant, but it is averred that through some
latent electrical defect in the apparatus, no electric current
reached the body of Willie Francis and for that reason the sentence of death was not carried out. We have no other evidence,
of course, as to whether an electric current did reach the body of
Willie Francis. The important fact, however, is that a current
of sufficient intensity to cause death, as required by the statute
on the subject, and by the death warrant, did not pass through
the body of Willie Francis."
This means that, as long as the relator did not die, the court apparently regarded the carrying out of the death sentence as a purely
executive function not subject to judicial review.

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

BuRToN, J., dissenting.

to be a violation of the due process of law guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment. The refusal of the writs
necessarily denied the constitutional protection prayed
for. In ruling against the relator on the pleadings, in the
absence of further evidence, the Supreme Court of Louisiana must be taken to have acted upon the allegations
of fact most favorable to the relator. The petition contains the unequivocal allegation that the official electrocutioner "turned on the switch and a current of electricity
was caused to pass through the body of relator, all in the
presence of the official witnesses." This allegation must
be read in the light of the Louisiana statute which authorized the electrocutioner to apply to the body of the relator
only such an electric current as was of "sufficient intensity
to cause death." On that record, denial of relief means
that the proposed repeated, and at least second, application to the relator of an' electric current sufficient to cause
death is not, under present circumstances, a cruel and unusual punishment violative of due process of law. It
exceeds any punishment prescribed by law. There is no
precedent for it. What then is it, if it be not cruel, unusual
and unlawful? In spite of the constitutional issue thus
raised, the Supreme Court of Louisiana treated it as an
executive question not subject to judicial review. We
believe that if the facts are as alleged by the relator the
proposed action is unconstitutional. We believe also that
the Supreme Court of Louisiana should provide for the
determination of the facts and then proceed in a manner
not inconsistent with this opinion.
That counsel for both sides recognize the materiality
of what occurred on May 3, 1946, is demonstrated by the
affidavits and the transcript of testimony which they took
from available public records and called to the attention
of this Court by publication of them in connection with
their respective briefs in this Court. Excerpts from those

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BuRToN, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

public records, printed in the margin, indicate the conflict
of testimony which should be resolved.!
The remand of this cause to the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the manner indicated would not mean that the
2 The

following excerpts are from copies of affidavits printed as
appendices to the brief on behalf of the petitioner. The official witnesses named were persons charged by statute with the duty of making
a signed report or "proces verbal" reciting the manner and date of the
execution to be filed with the clerk of the court in which the sentence
was imposed. La. Code of Criminal Procedure (1928), Act No. 2, Art.
571. The statements refer to what happened after the relator had
been strapped into the electric chair and a hood placed before his eyes.
"Then the electrocutioner turned on the switch and when he did
Willie Francis' lips puffed out and he groaned and jumped so that
the chair came off the floor. Apparently the switch was turned on
twice and then the condemned man yelled: 'Take it off. Let me
breath.'" Affidavit of official witness Harold Resweber, dated
May 23, 1946.
"I saw the electrocutioner turn on the switch and I saw his lips
puff out and swell, his body tensed and stretched. I heard the
one in charge yell to the man outside for more juice when he saw
that Willie Francis was not dying and the one on the outside
yelled back he was giving him all he had. Then Willie Francis
cried out 'Take it off. Let me breath.' Then they took the hood
from his eyes and unstrapped him.
"This boy really got a shock when they turned that machine on."
Affidavit of official witness Ignace Doucet, dated May 30, 1946.
"After he was strapped to the chair the Sheriff of St. Martin
Parish asked him if he had anything to say about anything and he
said nothing. Then the hood was placed before his eyes. Then
the officials in charge of the electrocution were adjusting the
mechanisms and when the needle of the meter registered to a
certain point on the dial, the electrocutioner pulled down on the
switch and at the same time said: 'Goodby Willie.' At that very
moment, Willie Francis' lips puffed out and his body squirmed and
tensed and he jumped so that the chair rocked on the floor. Then
the condemned man said: 'Take it off. Let me breath.' Then
the switch was turned off. Then some of the men left and a few

FRANCIS v. RESWEBER.
459

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

relator necessarily is entitled to a complete release. It
would mean merely that the courts of Louisiana must
examine the facts, both as to the actual nature of the punishment already inflicted and that proposed to be inflicted
and, if the proposed punishment amounts to a violation of
due process of law under the Constitution of the United
States, then the State must find some means of disposing
of this case that will not violate that Constitution.
For the reasons stated, we are unable to concur in the
judgment of this Court which affirms the judgment
below.

minutes after the Sheriff of St. Martin Parish, Mr. E. L. Res-

weber, came in and announced that the governor had granted the
condemned man a reprieve." Affidavit of official chaplain Reverend Maurice L. Rousseve, dated May 25, 1946.
Attached to the brief on behalf of the respondents there was submitted a copy of the transcript of testimony taken before the Louisiana Pardon Board on May 31, 1946, in support of the relator's
application for executive elemency which was denied June 1, 1946.
This transcript includes testimony of those who were in charge of the
electrical equipment on May 3, to the effect that no electric current
reached the body of the relator and that his flesh did not show electrical
bums. It also included a statement by the sheriff of a neighboring
parish, who accompanied the relator from the chair, that the relator
told him on leaving the chair that the electric current had "tickled
him."
These public records were not in existence and therefore not before
the Supreme Court of Louisiana when it rendered its decision on
May 15, 1946.

