OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

specific contract not to challenge the validity of Katzinger's patent can no more override congressional policy

than can an implied estoppel.

See Scott Paper Co. v.

MarcalusMfg. Co., supra, at 257 and cases cited.

Affirmed.
[For dissenting opinion of, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
concurred in by MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
and MR. JUSTICE BURTON, in this case and in MacGregor
v. Westinghouse Mfg. Co., see post, p. 408.]
MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC &
MANUFACTURING CO.
ON REHEARING.

No. 28.

Reargued November 14, 1946.-Decided January 6, 194L

A patent-licensing agreement authorized the licensee to make, use
and sell brazing solder containing copper and phosphorus and
required him to pay royalties and not to sell the product at prices
lower than those charged by the licensor. After paying royalties
on this product and also on solders containing tin or silver in
addition to copper and phosphorus, the licensee obtained patents
on the solders containing tin and silver and refused to pay royalties
on them. The licensor sued in a state court for royalties. In his
answer, the licensee challenged the validity and coverage of the
licensor's patent, the validity of the price-fixing agreement and
the validity of the licensor's exercise of its monopoly. He counterclaimed for refund of the royalties paid and for damages on account
of the-restraint imposed on him by the agreement. Held:
1. In these circumstances, the licensee was not estopped to challenge the validity of the licensor's patent. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173; Scott PaperCo. v. Marcalus Mfg.
Co., 326 U. S. 249; Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Co., ante,
p. 3 94 . P. 407.
2. The covenant to pay royalties was not severable from the
price-fixing covenant. Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Co., ante,
p.394. P.407.

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

403

Opinion of the Court.

3. The licensee's challenge to the validity of the patent, its alleged
misuse, and the price-fixing covenant raised federal questions not
governed by state rules as to estoppel or contract severability.
P. 407.

4. If the patent is invalid, the price-fixing agreement violates
the anti-trust laws. P. 407.
5. Since the case is remanded for a new trial, this Court will
not now pass on the validity of the patent, the licensing agreement,
or the licensor's alleged misuse of its patent. Pp. 407-408.
352 Pa. 443, 43 A. 2d 332, reversed.

In a suit brought by a licensor of a patent in a state
court for royalties under a licensing agreement, the licensee challenged the validity of the patent, a price-fixing
covenant in the agreement, and the licensor's exercise of
its monopoly, and counterclaimed for refund of royalties
already paid and for damages resulting from the restraint
imposed on him by the licensing agreement. The trial
court gave judgment for the licensor. The Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania affirmed. 352 Pa. 443, 43 A. 2d
332. This Court granted certiorari, 326 U. S. 708, affirmed
the judgment below in a per curiam decision by an equally
divided Court, 327 U. S. 758, and later granted a rehearing.
327 U. S. 812. Reversed and remanded, p. 408.
WilliamB. Jaspert reargued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Jo. Baily Brown reargued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Berge, CharlesH. Weston and PhilipMarcus
filed a brief for the United States, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case, like that of Edward Katzinger Co. v. Chicago
Metallic Mfg. Co., ante, p. 394, this day decided, involves

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

the right of a patent licensee to defend a suit for royalties
only under a licensing agreement which contains a pricefixing provision. Certain subsidiary questions are also
raised.
Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company
owned Jones' Patent No. 1,651,709. The invention
claimed was a brazing "solder comprising copper and phosphorus as the main and essential constituents." Westinghouse sued MacGregor for infringement. The litigation
was settled, and MacGregor took a license from Westinghouse authorizing MacGregor to make, use, and sell solder
containing the constituents described in Westinghouse's
patent claim. MacGregor agreed to pay 10% royalties on
the net selling price of the solder. Sections 5 and 6 of the
license agreement, set out below,' required MacGregor to
sell the solder for no less than the price Westinghouse
"5. Westinghouse grants this license on the express condition that
the prices, terms and conditions of sale for use or sale in the United
States of America, its territories and possessions of brazing solders
embodying the invention covered by said Letters Patent and so long as
such brazing solders continue to be covered by said patent, shall be
no more favorable to the customer than those which from time to
time Westinghouse establishes and maintains for its own sales of
similar or competing brazing solders under such patent to such or
other similarly situated customer purchasing in like quantities. MacGregor shall be notified of all such prices, terms and conditions of sale
fixed by Westinghouse.
"The prices, terms and conditions of sale of Westinghouse may be
changed by Westinghouse from time to time, notice being given
MacGregor, but not less than five days' notice shall be given before
any such change shall go into effect.
"6. It is agreed that it shall be regarded as an evasion of this agreement amounting to a breach thereof for MacGregor to reduce Westinghouse's sale price or alter Westinghouse's selling terms and conditions of sale directly or indirectly either through its own organization,
its agents or others by any device, subterfuge or evasion or by any
means whatever or to make the prices lower or the terms or conditions
more favorable than those set forth by Westinghouse."

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

405

Opinion of the Court.

charged its own customers. MacGregor paid royalties on
solder he made and sold which contained only phosphorus
and copper. Later he began to make and sell solders composed of phosphorus. copper, and tin, or phosphorus,
copper, and silver. , For a time he paid royalties on these.
But he also applied for and obtained patents on these two
latter solders which added tin and silver respectively to the
phosphorus-copper combination! s MacGregor then de-

clined to pay royalties on these solders on the ground that
they were not covered by Westinghouse's patent. Westinghouse brought this suit for an accounting and payment
of unpaid royalties in a Pennsylvania state court. MacGregor filed an answer denying liability and asserting a
counterclaim. His answer asserted that the solders which
were described in his patents were not covered by Westinghouse's patent. He alleged that the effort of Westinghouse to make him pay royalties on these solders constituted an unlawful exercise of Westinghouse's patent
monopoly and that Westinghouse should not be allowed
to recover in the courts for this reason. In a counterclaim, he maintained that by inadvertence and mistake
he had paid royalties on solders covered by his own
patents. He charged that if the Westinghouse patent
should be -construed to cover these latter solders, it was
invalid. He further contended that the price-fixing provision was a violation of the Sherman Act and the Clayton
Act and constituted an unlawful use of Westinghouse's
patent monopoly which rendered the whole license agreement illegal.' In his counterclaim MacGregor asked, not
2 Copper,

phosphorus and tin solder is Patent No. 2,125,680; cop-

per, phosphorus and silver solder is Patent No. 2,162,627.
s The agreement to fix prices, if unlawful at all, was so whether it
was executed or not. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310
U. S. 150; American Tobacco Co. v. United States, 328 U. S. 781, 810.

But this agreement by MacGregor to sell at fixed prices was no mere
token, for the trial court found that on July 11, 1940, Westinghouse

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

only for judgment for refund of the royalties alleged to
have been inadvertently paid, but also for damages on account of the illegal restraint imposed upon him by the
agreement.
The state trial court declined to consider the validity of
the patent, holding that it was presumed to be valid, and
that MacGregor as a licensee had no right to challenge it.
Assuming the patent and all the claims in it to be valid on
this theory, the state court found the claims broad enough
in scope to cover all the solders manufactured and sold by
MacGregor. The trial court did not give a like presumption to the validity of the patents issued to MacGregor, but
held that the solders covered by those patents infringed the
presumptively valid patents of Westinghouse.' The state
supreme court affirmed. 350 Pa. 333, 38 A. 2d 244. It
agreed with the trial court that MacGregor was estopped
to attack the validity of Westinghouse's patent. It recognized that there could be no estoppel in the present case
dnder our decision in Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric
Co., 317 U. S. 173, but for its interpretation of the Sola
decision as applying only to suits in which the licensor
called MacGregor's attention to his obligation to observe user and
distributor prices, and that on October 23, 1940, Westinghouse,
through one of its attorneys, wrote MacGregor's attorney that "if
MacGregor sells direct to the user, he should conform to the user
prices established, and when he sells direct to the dealer, he should conform to the dealer prices established." The oral testimony of Westinghouse's representatives construed the contract as requiring MacGregor to maintain the prices. Moreover, the record before us shows
that MacGregor positively testified that he had maintained the Westinghouse prices on the copper-phosphorus combination because he
considered himself bound to do so under the license contract.
4 Since the case is to be remanded for trial of the validity of the
patent, we find it unnecessary to consider the propriety in any event
of indulging a presumption of validity in favor of Westinghouse's
patent without giving a presumption of a patentable difference to
those of MacGregor. See Miller v. Eagle Manufacturing Co., 151
U.S. 186,208.

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

407

Opinion of the Court.

sought affirmative relief to enforce compliance with the
price-fixing provision. Since no such relief was asked in
this case, the state supreme court felt that there was no
existing controversy which involved the price-fixing provision-that the questions of their effect and validity were
"moot." Thus it assumed, as did the petitioner in Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Mfg. Co., supra, that a
royalty agreement was severable from price-fixing
covenants.
For the reasons stated in today's Katzinger opinion we
hold that the covenant to pay royalties was not severable
from the covenant to sell at fixed prices. Since MacGregor invoked federal law to sustain his challenge to
the validity of the patent, the alleged misuse of the patent, and the price-fixing covenant, his contentions raised
federal questions not governed by state estoppel or contract severability rules. Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson
Electric Co., supra, 176-177; Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalus
Co., 326 U. S.249. Accordingly, we hold as a matter of federal law that the state supreme court was wrong in affirming the judgment in this cause on the ground that the
licensee, MacGregor, was estopped to offer proof of his
allegation of invalidity. This error will require, as the
state court anticipated, that the cause be remanded for a
new trial to determine the validity of Westinghouse's patent. For we do not think that the present state of this
record justifies acceptance of MacGregor's contention that
we should now pass on validity of the patent. If it be
determined on remand that the patent is invalid, there is
no question but that, as MacGregor contends, the pricefixing agreement violates the anti-trust laws. Katzinger
Co. v. Chicago Metallic Co., supra; Sola Electric Co. v.
Jefferson Electric Co., supra, at 175; Scott Paper Co. v.
Marcalus Co., supra.
But there are alternative federal questions raised here
by MacGregor upon which decision might turn even

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

though Westinghouse's patent be held valid. MacGregor
pleaded that the price-fixing agreement so effectively
wiped out all competition to Westinghouse in the manufacture and sale of these solders that the whole license
contract should be held illegal as a violation of the Sherman and Clayton Acts. MacGregor also contended that
the license contract should be held unenforceable in the
courts on the ground that Westinghouse had attempted to
use it to extend the patent's scope beyond its lawful coverage. But since the cause must again be tried in the
state court we shall not pass on either of these contentions
at this time.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with

whom concur MR.

JUSTICE REED, Ma. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE
BURTON. dissenting.*

The Court deems the issues in these cases to be con-

trolled by our decision in Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Co.,
317 U. S. 173. Such is not my understanding of the Sola
decision. These cases cannot be properly decided, I believe, without consideration of one of the oldest doctrines
of the patent law, namely, that a licensee cannot challenge
the validity of the patent though everyone else may.
(1) Ninety years ago this Court unanimously announced the doctrine that a licensee under a patent is
estopped from challenging the validity of that patent.
Kinsman v. Parkhurst, 18 How. 289. The case may perhaps be explained, or even explained away. But the rule
it expressed had become so much part of our law that fifty
*[This is also a dissent from the decision in Katzinger Co. %.Chicago
Metallic Co., ante, p. 394.]

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

FRANKFURTER,

409

J., dissenting.

years later the Court deemed it unnecessary to discuss it
and unanimously applied it even against the United States
as licensee. United States v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S.
310. It is significant that the licensee in that case. while
vigorously contesting its liability upon the particular
facts, conceded that the doctrine of estoppel was law "as a
general proposition."
(2) Before those cases and since, in all English-speaking jurisdictions, in the courts of England. of the Dominions and of the various States, as well as in the lower federal courts, where most patent litigation originates and
stops, a weighty body of cases affirmed and applied that
doctrine with rare unanimity.1 This Court has never
questioned the rule.' The principle has withstood judicial
scrutiny for nearly a century.
(3) Nor has the operation of the rule revealed inroads
upon the public interest so as to stir efforts for its abrogation or restriction by Congress. Patent policy has been
frequently reconsidered, and some rules formulated by
courts were eliminated or modified. Yet in none of the
four major patent statutes nor in any of the other numerous amendatory enactments was attempt made to abolish
or limit estoppel in favor of the licensor.' The Patent
I The early cases are collected in 14 Ann. Cas. 1184. Note also the
unanimity among the authors of treatises. Amdur, Patent Law and
Practice 598; Ellis, Patent Assignments and Licenses § 692 et seq.;
2 Frost, Patent Law and Practice 201; Moulton, Patents 244; Rivise
and Caesar, Patentability and Validity §.10; 2 Robinson, Patents
§ 820; 2 Walker, Patents (Deller's ed.) § 383. And see the cases
cited, especially in Walker, Patents, supra.
2Cf. Eureka Company v. Bailey Company. 11 Wall. 488, 492;
Eclipse Bicycle Company v. Farrow, 199 U. S. 581, 587.
3See Patent Act of 1790, 1 Stat. 109; Patent Act of 1793, 1 Stat.
318; Patent Act of 1836, 5 Stat. 117; Patent Act of 1870, 16 Stat.
198. See also the subsequent minor enactments, summarized, .1.Pat.
Off. Soc., July 1936, pp. 103-22. And see 1 Walker, Patents (Deller's
ed.) Appendix.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

Office, charged by Congress with supervision of the patent
system and the source of many suggestions enacted into
law, has never included among its proposals recommendation to alter that doctrine.
(4) Not until 1942, apparently, was legislative correction invoked, and even then only partially. Several
bills were introduced to permit contest of the validity of
a patent in anti-trust suits. See S. 2730, Aug. 20, 1942;
H. R. 7713, Oct. 15, 1942; H. R. 109, Jan. 6, 1943; H. R.
1371, Jan. 20, 1943. Only in the latest bills to be introduced is it proposed that "In any proceeding involving a
violation of the antitrust laws or involving a patent or any
interest therein, a party shall be entitled to show the invalidity or the limited scope of any patent or patent rights
involved." H. R. 3874, Dec. 18, 1943; H. R. 97, Jan. 3,
1945; H. R. 3462, June 13, 1945; S. 2482, July 26, 1946.
Not one of these bills has yet reached the floor of
Congress.
(5) If ever a doctrine has established itself as part of our
law to be respected by the judiciary, this is it. If it is to
be changed, Congress is there to change it. Perhaps Congress will see fit to reexamine the doctrine in all its ramifications in the light of its history and the experience
under it, and with due regard to all factors relevant to our
patent system. We cannot do that. We can only adhere
to the doctrine or overrule it. Until Congress does undo
a principle so embedded in our law, we should leave it
where we find it.
(6) But, in any event, if we are to wipe out so settled
a phase of our law it should be done explicitly, not cryptically. In my judgment the Sola decision does not give
adequate support for the Court's opinion. The cases
before us necessarily involve the estoppel doctrine and
cannot be disposed of without appearing to overrule a
settled course of decision.

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

411

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

(7) No doubt the Sola case, like these two, arose out of
a claim for royalties under a patent license. - But that
there was a claim for royalties was hardly mentioned in
the Court's opinion in the Sola case. The sole issue to
which our attention was directed was a prayer that the
licensee be enjoined from breach of his promise to abide
by the prices fixed by the licensor for the sale of articles
manufactured under the patent. Ever since the decision
in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373.
this Court, as a matter of judicial policy reflected in legislation, has denied enforcement of agreements not to sell
goods below a fixed price. And so this Court has been
on the alert not to allow an exception to what is a Congressional as well as a judicial policy unless the basis for
it is clean and clear.
The precise issue which we decided in the Sola case is
not a matter for inference or conjecture. It was explicitly
defined and delimited. "The question for our decision,"
the late Chief Justice wrote, "is whether a patent licensee,
by virtue of his license agreement, is estopped to challenge
a price-fixing clause in the agreement by showing that the
patent is invalid, and that the price restriction is accordingly unlawful because not protected by the patent monopoly." 317 U. S. at 173. That was the issue in the Sola
case. It was not whether a licensee may challenge the
validity of a patent when sued for royalties. It was not
whether a provision for price-fixing undermined rights
under estoppel against a licensee. It was whether the
licensor could show the special dispensation pertaining to
the holder of a valid patent, which entitles him to fix the
price of a commodity manufactured under his patent, although such a pricing agreement would be unenforceable
in the generality of cases. What was sought and what
was denied in Sola was the active benefit of a price-fixing
clause.

JCTOBER TERM, 1946.

412

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

(8) In the cases before us price-fixing is not in issue.'
We are not asked to allow the licensor to have the benefit
of a practice available only under a valid patent. To
grant relief here will not, unlike the Sola case, approve a
4 "In the instant case the court has not been requested either directly
or indirectly to require MacGregor to maintain Westinghouse prices.
By his own testimony he has not maintained them. The price-fixing
clause is not in issue. It is raised merely as a defense to a suit for
accounting and payment of accrued royalties." Discussion of findings
by trial court in the MacGregorcase.
As to the Katzinger case the District Court opinion found that
"no price fixing by the respondent has been proved by the peti-

tioner. .

.

. At no time did the respondent attempt to carry it out

and the respondent was at all times willing to have same removed from
the contract." Further, a specific finding of fact was that "Respondent
was always willing to eliminate the price fixing provisions of the
license agreement, and these provisions terminated ipso facto upon
termination of the license by petitioner." It was on the basis of the
facts so found by the District Court that the Circuit Court of Appeals
held, when the estoppel issue was before it, that the mere presence
of a price-fixing clause in the licensing agreement, whatever its
setting and however inoperative, precluded estoppel against the licensee. 139 F. 2d 291. With the estoppel issue thus eliminated, the
case was returned to the District Court to pass on the validity of the
patent. Inasmuch as the Circuit Court of Appeals had found that
the District Court had erred in its decree enforcing estoppel, the
previous findings regarding estoppel became irrelevant and fll with
the reversed decree. These findings, however, did not cease to be
part of the record before the Circuit Court of Alipeals on the first
appeal. It is that decision, with the record on which it is based, that
is now before us. If the Circuit Court of Appeals had enforced
estoppel, the decree of the District Court and the findings on which
it is based would not have been vacated. The findings that were
before the Circuit Court of Appeals on the first appeal are now before
us on review of that court's decision.
The license agreement provided for royaltics based on a percentage
of the net sales. The amount of the net sales was not fixed by agreement except insofar as certain scheduled articles called for a minimum
price. The record does not show the prices at which the sales were
made. Not only that, the claim of the licensee was that the articles
for which royalties were claimed were outs.ide the license. Plainly

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

FRANKFURTER,

413

J., dissenting.

practice prima facie in restraint of trade. What we here
have to decide is whether we shall allow the licensee to
repudiate an agreement for the payment of money made
in an arm's length transaction. For nearly a hundred years
this Court has uniformly answered that question by using
the legal shorthand of estoppel.
(9) But if all the cases which have recognized and applied the doctrine of estoppel have been reduced, as apparently they have been, to derelicts, they should not be
allowed to remain as obstructions on the stream of law.
And not merely out of regard for the proper administration of law. The matter has practical consequences for
all whose concern is patents. It is not questioned that
a price-fixing clause in a license to manufacture under a
valid patent falls outside the interdict of the anti-trust
acts. Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70.1 The
power to fix the price of patented articles is part of the
patent grant. It is a mode of maintaining the integrity of a
patent and as such is sanctioned by public policy. All
that the Sola case held, and the only thing it held, was
that a valid patent is indispensable to this right to fix
prices.
But whether an inventor has a valid patent is a matter
of increasing uncertainty. Hitherto, under the estoppel
such articles were not included on the minimum price schedule and
could not have been sold according to the scheduled price list. The
claim for royaities, therefore, was not a claim for royalties at fixed
prices.
8 Upon full consideration the principle of the Bement case was reaffirmed and applied in United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S.
476. The latter case in turn was cited with approval in Carbice Corp.
v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27, 31. It is relevant to note
that Mr. Justice Brandeis joined in the General Electric opinion and
himself wrote the Carbice opinion. No member of this Court has been
more resourcefully alert to protect the public interest from undue
extension of the patent monopoly while at the same time observing
the rights which Congress has seen fit to confer by the patent grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

doctrine, a patentee could be assured that he would not

have to litigate the validity of his patent with those to
whom he grants license rights under it. Under the present decision, he cannot have this assurance of freedom
from litigation if, under reasonable belief that he has a
valid patent, he inserts a price-fixing clause in the license,
even though afterwards he merely asks for royalties.
What matters is not merely that a patentee must now
choose between two safeguards of his patent grant. In
the Sola case the licensor asked for the enforcement of a
pricing agreement. Here the price-fixing agreement is
not brought into question and the patentee stands on his
estoppel. Tiis important difference is disregarded, the
Sola case is deemed controlling, and the estoppel is left to
fend for itself as a legal stray. By its silence, as by its
reasoning in applying the Sola case, the decision will engender natural doubts as to the continuing validity of the
estoppel doctrine even in those cases where no pricing
agreement had ever existed. The result is that all future
arrangements between licensor and licensee are overhung by a cloud of doubt as to what one who believes
that he holds a valid patent should do in granting licenses
under it.
If he insists on a price agreement to help maintain
the integrity of his business, he runs the risk of losing his
royalties since the mere existence of the price-fixing
clause (which is all we have here) may find him entirely
in the cold if it should turn out that the patent is not
sustained. So long as the estoppel doctrine as such stands
unrejected, the patentee may, therefore, prefer to forego
price-fixing and be satisfied with the bird in the hand
in reliance on estoppel. But the upshot of the present decision is that the Court creates an unfair uncertainty as
to the continued vitality of the historic estoppel doctrine.
The result is that the patentee who foregoes his right to
maintain prices in order to make certain that he can at

MACGREGOR v. WESTINGHOUSE CO.
402

FRANKFURTER,

415

J., dissenting.

least collect his patent royalties without the cost and uncertainty of litigation, may find himself caught in the
optimism of his belief as to the vitality of the estoppel
doctrine unembarrassed by any price-fixing provision.
For he may have given up what he might otherwise assert
as a patentee to make sure that he can in any event have
what estoppel would give him. It would seem fair to
pronounce now that the doctrine of estoppel has or has
not survived so that those who deem themselves holders
of patent rights might not suffer because they assumed
that the Court would preserve that which by no intimation
it purports to jettison.
(10) The problem before the Court can be treated as
though it was the same as that in the Sola case only if a
distinction with a difference makes no difference. It is
one thing to refuse to enforce a contract restraining trade
by price-fixing unless positive justification is shown in the
form of a valid patent. It is quite another to use the excuse of an inoperauve price-fixing clause to allow a licensee
to escape his otherwise valid promise to pay royalties.'
Nowhere in the Sola case did the Court intimate that the
decision rested upon the importance to the public economy of allowing challenge to the validity of a patent by
those particular members of the public who in a fair
bargain had agreed not to do so. In fact, the doctrine of
estoppel, flowing from Kinsman v. Parkhurst and applied
in United States v. Harvey Steel Co., was explicitly noted
6 The considerations that determine the granting of a li-ense on
payment of royalties are distinct from those that underlie an additional
clause for price-fixing. They are not interdependent in fact and were
not so treated by the parties; no artificial notion regarding consideration requires that they be treated as interdependent. On lesser
considerations of policy than have guided the course of patent law, this
Court has refused to treat separate provisions of a contract as integrated. See Philadelphia, Wilnington & Baltimore Railroad Co. v.
Howard, 13 How. 307, 339; Polak v. Brush Electric Association, 128

U. S. 446, 455.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

only to be put to one side because "here a different question is presented." 317 U. S. at 175. It was again put
aside in Altvater v. Freeman, 319 U. S. 359, 364.' The
question which those cases did not have to meet should
now be met otherwise than by disregard. The Court's
essential reasoning would apply equally where the license
never attempted to fix prices. If a doctrine that was vital
law for more than ninety years will be found to have now
been deprived of life, we ought at least to give it decent
public burial.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. EVATT,
TAX COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
No. 75.

Argued December. 12, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.

Under § 5495, Ohio Gen. Code, Ohio levied a franchise tax on appellant
for the "privilege of doing business" in the State. Appellant owns
and operates several factories, sales agencies, warehouses, and retail
stores in Ohio and numerous factories, sales agencies, and retail
stores in other States. Goods manufactured in Ohio are sold partly
in Ohio and partly in other States. Some goods manufactured in
other States are sold by appellant's sales agencies in Ohio to customers in Ohio. Under § 5498, Ohio Gen. Code, the tax base is
computed as follows: The total value of the taxpayer's issued
capital stock is divided in half. One half is multiplied by a fraction,
whose numerator is the value of all the taxpayer's property in Ohio
and whose denominator is the total value of all its property wherever located. The other half is multiplied by a fraction whose
numerator is the total value of "business done" in Ohio and whose
denominator is the total value of business done everywhere. The
sum of these two products is the tax base. Held:
I Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalus Co., 326 U. S. 249, went on the
ground that an earlier expired patent had put the device in question
into the public domain.

