FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
Counsel for Parties.

FREEMAN, TRUSTEE, v. HEWIT, DIRECTOR OF
GROSS INCOME TAX DIVISION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 3.

Argued November 8, 1944. Reargued October 14, 1946.Decided December 16, 1946.

A trustee of an estate created by the will of a decedent domiciled in
Indiana at the time of his death instructed his Indiana broker to
arrange for the sale of certain securities at stated prices. They were
offered for sale on the New York Stock Exchange through the Indiana broker's New York correspondents. When a purchaser was
found, the trustee delivered the securities in Indiana to his Indiana
broker, who mailed them to New York. The New York brokers
made delivery, received the purchase price, and remitted the proceeds (less expense and commission) to the Indiana broker, who
delivered the proceeds (less commission) to the trustee in Indiana.
Held:
1. The Indiana Gross Income Tax Act of 1933 cannot constitutionally be applied to the gross receipts from these sales, since it
would constitute a direct burden on interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause. Pp. 252-259.
2. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33; American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Harvester Co. v. Department
of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, differentiated. Pp. 257, 258.
3. The Commerce Clause protects interstate sales of intangibles
as well as interstate sales of tangibles. P. 258.
221 Ind. 675, 51 N. E. 2d 6, reversed.
Appeal from a decision of the Supreme Court of In-

diana sustaining application of the Indiana Gross Income
Tax Act of 1933 to gross receipts from interstate sales of
securities. 221 Ind. 675, 51 N. E. 2d 6. Reversed, p. 259.
Gath P. Freeman argued the cause for appellant and

filed a brief on the original argument, and also filed a brief
on the reargument.
Harry T. Ice reargued the cause and filed a brief for

appellant.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Winslow Van Home, Deputy Attorney General of Indiana, argued the cause on the original argument for appellee. With him on the brief were James A. Emmert,
Attorney General, John J. McShane, Deputy Attorney
General, Robert Hollowell, Jr., Cleon H. Foust, John H.
Fetterhoff and Fred C. McClurg.
John J. McShane, Deputy Attorney General, reargued
the cause for appellee. With him on the brief were James
A. Emmert, Attorney General, John H. Fetterhoff and
Fred C. McClurg, Deputy Attorneys General.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents another phase of the Indiana Gross
Income Tax Act of 1933, which has been before this Court
in a series of cases beginning with Adams Mfg. Co. v.
Storen, 304 U. S. 307. The Act imposes a tax upon "the
receipt of the entire gross income" of residents and domiciliaries of Indiana but excepts from its scope "such gross
income as is derived from business conducted in commerce
between. this state and other states of the United
States . . . to the extent to which the State of Indiana
is prohibited from taxing such gross income by the Constitution of the United States." Indiana Laws 1933, pp.
388, 392, as amended, Laws 1937, pp. 611, 615, Burns' Ind.
Stat. Anno. § 64-2601 et seq.
Appellant's predecessor, domiciled in Indiana, was trustee of an estate created by the will of a decedent domiciled
in Indiana at the time of his death. During 1940, the trustee instructed his Indiana broker to arrange for the sale at
stated prices of securities forming part of the trust estate.
Through the broker's New York correspondents the securities were offered for sale on the New York Stock Exchange.
When a purchaser was found, the New York brokers

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

Opinion of the Court.

notified the Indiana broker who in turn informed the trustee, and the latter brought the securities to his broker for
mailing to New York. Upon their delivery to the purchasers, the New York brokers received the purchase price,
which, after deducting expenses and commission, they
transmitted to the Indiana broker. The latter delivered
the proceeds less his commission to the trustee. On
the gross receipts of these sales, amounting to $65,214.20,
Indiana, under the Act of 1933, imposed a tax of 1%.
Having paid the tax under protest, the trustee brought
this suit for its recovery. The Supreme Court of Indiana, reversing a court of first instance, sustained the tax
on the ground that the situs of the securities was in
Indiana. 221 Ind. 675, 51 N. E. 2d 6. The case is here
on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 344 (a), and has had the consideration which two arguments afford.
The power of the States to tax and the limitations upon
that power imposed by the Commerce Clause have necessitated a long, cqntinuous process of judicial adjustment.
The need for such adjustment is inherent in a federal

government like ours, where the same transaction has
aspects that may concern the interests and involve the
authority of both the central government and the constituent States."
Compare Report'of the (Australian) Royal Commission on the
Constitution (1929) pp. 260, 322-24, and Report of the (Canadian)
Royal Commission on Dominion-Provincial Relations (1940), bk. II,
pp. 62-67, 111-21, 150-62, 216-19. See Australia, Act No. 1, 1946,
repealing Act No. 20, 1942, and Act No. 43, 1942; South Australia v.
Commonwealth, 65 C. L. R. 373; also Proposals of the Government
of Canada, Dominion-Provincial Conference on Reconstruction, pp.
47-49; Proceedings of the Dominion-Provincial Conference (1945)
passim, particularly the statement of Prime Minister Mackenzie King,
p. 388, and the discussion following. And see Maxwell, The Fiscal
Impact of Federalism in the United States (1946) cc. II, XIII, XIV.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The history of this problem is spread over hundreds
of volumes of our. Reports. To attempt to harmonize
all that has been said in the past would neither clarify
what has gone before nor guide the future. Suffice it
to say that especially in this field opinions must be read
in the setting of the particular cases and as the product
of preoccupation with their special facts.
Our starting point is clear. In two recent cases we
applied the principle that the Commerce Clause was not
merely an authorization to Congress to enact laws for
the protection and encouragement of commerce among
the States, but by its own force created an area of trade
free from interference by the States. In short, the Commerce Clause even without implementing legislation by
Congress is a limitation upon the power of the States.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761; Morgan v.
Virginia, 328 U. S. 373. In so deciding we reaffirmed,
upon fullest consideration, the course of adjudication
unbroken through the Nation's history. This limitation
on State power, as the Morgan case so well illustrates,
does not merely forbid a State to single out interstate
commerce for hostile action. A State is also precluded
from taking any action which may fairly be deemed to
have the effect of impeding the free flow of trade between

States.

It is immaterial that local commerce is subjected

to a similar encumbrance. It may commend itself to a
State to encourage a pastoral instead of an industrial
society. That is its concern and its privilege. But to
compare a State's treatment of its local trade with the
exertion of its authority against commerce in the national
domain is to compare incomparables.
These principles of limitation on State power apply
to all State policy no matter what State interest gives
rise to its legislation. A burden on interstate commerce
is none the lighter and no less objectionable because it

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

Opinion of the Court.

is imposed by a State under the taxing power rather
than under manifestations of police power in the conventional sense. But, in the necessary accommodation
between local needs and the overriding requirement
of freedom for the national commerce, the incidence of a
particular type of State action may throw the balance
in support of the local need because interference with the
national interest is remote or unsubstantial. A police
regulation of local aspects of interstate commerce is a
power often essential to a State in safeguarding vital
local interests. At least until Congress chooses to enact
a nation-wide rule, the power will not be denied to the
State. The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402
et seq.; S. C. Hwy. Dept. v. Barnwell Bros.,.303 U. S.177;
Union Brokerage Co.. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, 209-12.
State taxation falling on interstate commerce, on the other
hand, can only be justified as designed to make such
commerce bear a fair share of the cost of the local government whose protection it enjoys. But revenue serves
as well no matter what its source. To deny to a State a
particular source of income because it taxes the very
process of interstate commerce does not impose a crippling limitation on a State's ability to carry on its local
function. Moreover, the burden on interstate commerce involved in a direct tax upon it is inherently
greater, certainly less uncertain in its consequences, than
results from the usual police regulations. The power to
tax is a dominant power over commerce. Because the
greater or more threatening burden of a direct tax on commerce is coupled with the lesser need to a State of a
particular source of revenue, attempts at such taxation
have always been more carefully scrutinized and more
consistently resisted, than police power regulations of
aspects of such commerce. The task of scrutinizing is a
task of drawing lines. This is the historic duty of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Court so long as Congress does not undertake to make specific arrangements between the National Government and
the States in regard to revenues from interstate commerce.
See Act of July 3, 1944, 58 Stat. 723; H. Doc. 141, 79th
Cong., 1st Sess., "Multiple Taxation of Air Commerce";
and compare 54 Stat. 1059, 4 U. S. C. § 13 et seq. (permission to States to extend taxing power to Federal areas).
Considerations of proximity and degree are here, as so
often in the law, decisive.
It has been suggested that such a tax is valid when a
similar tax is placed on local trade, and a specious appearance of fairness is sought to be imparted by the argument
that interstate commerce should not be favored at the
expense of local trade. So to argue is to disregard the life
of the Commerce Clause. Of course a State is not required
to give active advantage to interstate trade. But it cannot
aim to control that trade even though it desires to control its own. It cannot justify what amounts to a levy
upon the very process of commerce across States lines
by pointing to a similar hobble on its local trade. It
is true that the existence of a tax on its local commerce
detracts from the deterrent effect of a tax on interstate
commerce to the extent that it removes the temptation to
sell the goods locally. But the fact of such a tax, in any
event, puts impediments upon the currents of commerce
across the State line, while the aim of the Commerce Clause
was precisely to prevent States from exacting toll from
those engaged in national commerce. The Commerce
Clause does not involve an exercise in the logic of empty
categories. It operates within the framework of our federal scheme and with due regard to the national experience
reflected by the decisions of this Court, even though the
terms in which these decisions have been cast may have
varied. Language alters, and there is a fashion in judicial
writing as in other things.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

Opinion of the Court.

This case, like Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra,
involves a tax imposed by the State of the seller on the
proceeds of interstate sales. To extract a fair tithe
from interstate commerce for the local protection afforded
to it, a seller State need not impose the kind of tax which
Indiana here levied. As a practical matter, it can make
such commerce pay its way, as the phrase runs, apart
from taxing the very sale. Thus, it can tax local manufacture even if the products are destined for other States.
For some purposes, manufacture and the shipment of its
products beyond a State may be looked upon as an integral transaction. But when accommodation must be
made between state and national interests, manufacture
within a State, though destined for shipment outside, is
not a seamless web so as to prevent a State from giving
the manufacturing part detached relevance for purposes
of local taxation. American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250
U. S. 459; Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165.
It can impose license taxes on domestic and foreign corporations who would do business in the State, Cheney
Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; St. Louis S.
W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 364, though it cannot,
even under the guise of such excises, "hamper" interstate
commerce. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56 (particularly
White, J. concurring at p. 63); Henderson, The Position of
Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional Law
(1918) 118-23, 128-31. It can tax the privilege of residence in the State and measure the privilege by net income, including that derived from interstate commerce.
U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; cf. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Daughton,262 U. S. 413. And where, as in
this case, the commodities subsequently sold interstate
are securities, they can be reached by a property tax by
the State of domicil of the owner. Virginia v. Imperial

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15, 19; and see Citizens NationalBank
v. Durr,257 U. S. 99.
These illustrative instances show that a seller State has
various means of obtaining legitimate contribution to the
costs of its government, without imposing a direct tax on
interstate sales. While these permitted taxes may, in an
ultimate sense, come out of interstate commerce, they aro
not, 'aswould be a tax on gross receipts, a direct imposition
on that very freedom of commercial flow which for more
than a hundred and fifty years has been the ward of the
Commerce Clause.
It is suggested, however, that the validity of a gross
sales tax should depend on whether another State has also
sought to impose its burden on the transactions. If
another State has taxed the same interstate transaction,
the burdensome consequences to interstate trade are undeniable. But that, for the time being, only one State has
taxed is irrelevant to the kind of freedom of trade which
the Commerce Clause generated. The immunities implicit in the Commerce Clause and the potential taxing
power of a State can hardly be made to depend, in the
world of practical affairs, on the shifting incidence of
the varying tax laws of the various States at a particular
moment. Courts are not possessed of instruments of
determination so delicate as to enable them to weigh
the various factors in a complicated economic setting
which, as to an isolated application of a State tax, might
mitigate the obvious burden generally created by a direct
tax on commerce. Nor is there any warrant in the constitutional principles heretofore applied by this Court to support the notion that a State may be allowed one singletax-worth of direct interference with the free flow of
commerce. An exaction by a State from interstate commerce falls not because of a proven increase in the cost
of the product. What makes the tax invalid is the

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

257

Opinion of the Court.

fact that there is interference by a State with the freedom
of interstate commerce. Such a tax by the seller State
alone must be judged burdensome in the context of the circumstances in which the tax takes effect. Trade being a
sensitive plant, a direct tax upon it to some extent at least
deters trade even if its effect is not precisely calculable.
Many States, for instance, impose taxes on the consumption of goods, and such taxes have been sustained regardless of the extra-State origin of the goods, or whether a tax
on their sale had been imposed by the seller State. Such
potential taxation by consumer States is but one factor
pointing to the deterrent effect on commerce by a superimposed gross receipts tax.
It has been urged that the force of the decision in the
Adams case has been sapped by McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Co., 309 U. S. 33. The decision in McGoldrick v.
Berwind-White was found not to impinge upon "the
rationale of the Adams Manufacturing Co. case," and the
tax was sustained because it was "conditioned upon a local
activity, delivery of goods within the state upon their
purchase for consumption." 309 U. S. at 58. Compare
McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S. 327. Taxes which
have the same effect as consumption taxes are properly
differentiated from a direct imposition on interstate commerce, such as was before the Court in the Adams case and
is now before us. The tax on the sale itself cannot be differentiated from a direct unapportioned tax on gross receipts which has been definitely held beyond the State
taxing power ever since Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230,
and Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326. See also, e. g., Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co.
v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Kansas City, Ft. S. & M. R. Co. v.
Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 231; Puget Sound Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 90, 94; and compare Wallace v. Hines,
253 U. S. 66. For not even an "internal regulation" by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

.329 U. S.

State will be allowed if it directly affects interstate commerce.

Robbins v..
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S.

489, 494.
Nor is American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U.'S. 459,
or Harvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340,
any justification for the present tax. The American Mfg.
Co. case involved an imposition by St. Louis of a license
fee upon the conduct of manufacturing within that city.
It has long been settled that a State can levy such an occupation tax graduated according to the volume of manufacture. In that case, to lighten the manufacturer's burden, the imposition of the occupation tax was made
cntingent upon the actual sale of the goods locally manufactured. Sales in St. Louis of goods made elsewhere
were not taken into account in measuring the license fee.
That tax, then, unlike this, was not in fact a tax on gross
receipts. Cf. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S.418. And, if
words are to correspond to things, the tax now here is not
"a tax on the transfer of property" within the State,
which was the basis for sustaining the tax in HarvesterCo.,
v. Dept. of Treasury, supra,at 348.
There remains only the claim that an interstate sale of
intangibles differs from an interstate sale of tangibles in
respects material to the issue in this case. It was by this
distinction that the Supreme Court of Indiana sought to
escape the authority of Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra.
Latin tags like mobilia sequuntur personam often do
service for legal analysis, but they ought not to confound constitutional issues. What Mr. Justice Holmes
said about that phrase is relevant here. "It is a fiction,
the historical origin of which is familiar to scholars, and
it is this fiction that gives whatever meaning it has to the
saying mobilia sequuntur personam. But being a fiction
it is not allowed to obscure the facts, when the facts become
important." Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 204.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUmmDE, J., concurring.

Of course this is an interstate sale. And constitutionally it is commerce no less and no different because the
subject was pieces of paper worth $65,214.20, rather than
machines.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

This is a case in which the grounding of the decision is
more important than the decision itself. Whether the
Court now intends simply to qualify or to repudiate entirely, except in result, Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S.
307, I am unable to determine from its opinion. But that
one or the other consequence is intended seems obvious
from its refusal to rest the present decision squarely on
that case, together with the wholly different foundation
on which it now relies. In either event, the matter is
important and calls for discussion.
I.
The Adams case held the Indiana tax now in issue to be
invalid when applied, without apportionment, to gross
receipts derived from interstate sales of goods made by
Indiana manufacturers who sold and shipped them to purchasers in other states. "The vice of the statute" as thus
applied, it was held, was "that the tax includes in its measure, without apportionment,receipts derived from activities in interstate commerce; and that the exaction is of
such a character that if lawful it may in substance be laid
to the fullest extent by States in which the goods are sold
as well as those in which they are manufactured. Interstate commerce would thus be subjected to the risk of
a double tax burden to which intrastate commerce is

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

not exposed, and which the commerce clause forbids."
(Emphasis added.) 304 U. S. 307,311.'
Today's opinion refuses to rest squarely on the Adams
case, although that case would be completely controlling
if no change in the law were intended. No basis for distinguishing the cases on the facts or the ultimate questions
is found or stated. The Court takes them as identical.!
Yet it places no emphasis upon apportionment, the absence of which the Adams opinion held crucial. The
Court also puts to one side as irrelevant the factor there
most stressed, namely, the danger of multiple taxation,
that is, of similar taxation by other states, if the Indiana
tax should be upheld in the attempted application.
Those matters were the very essence of, the Adams decision. They were in its words "the vice" of the statute as
applied. The Adams opinion gives no reason for believing
that the application of the tax would not have been sustained if either of the two elements vitiating it had been
absent. On the contrary, the fair, indeed the necessary,
inference from the language and reasons given is that the
tax would not have been voided if there had been no
danger of multiple state taxation or if the tax had been
apportioned so as to eliminate that risk. Moreover those
The Court added: "We have repeatedly held that such a tax is a
regulation of, and 'a burden upon, interstate commerce prohibited
by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution. The opinion of the State Supreme
Court stresses the generality and nondiscriminatory character of the
exaction, but it is settled that this will not save the tax if it directly
burdens interstate commerce." 304 U. S. 307, 311-312. Cf. notes
5 and 16.
The only factual difference is that here the sales were of securi-ties, there of goods. It was this upon which Indiana has relied to
distinguish the Adams case, asserting originally that it gave domiciliary
foundation for sustaining the tax. This claim disappeared, in effect,
at the second oral argument, and.the Court does not rest on it. I
agree that, for present purposes, sales of intangibles should be treated
identically with sales of goods.
2

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

Rrtmz, J., concurring.

groundings were strictly in accord with long lines of previous decisions rendered here, 3 were intended to conform
to them and to preserve them unimpaired.
Yet now they are put to one side, either as irrelevant or
as not controlling and therefore presumably as insufficient,' in favor of another rationalization which ignores
them completely. Shortly, this is, in reiterated forms,
that the tax as applied is laid "directly on" interstate
commerce, is a levy "on the very sale" or "the very process"
of such commerce, is therefore and solely thereby a "burden" on it, and consequently is an exaction the commerce
clause forbids. What outlaws it is neither comparative
disadvantage with local trade nor any actual or probable
clogging -or impeding effect in fact.' It is simply the "direct" bearing and "incidence" of the tax on interstate
commerce and this alone. Stripped of any discriminatory
element and of any actual or probable tendency to block
or impede the commerce in fact, this "direct incidence" is
itself enough without more to invalidate the tax, although
it is one of general application singling out the commerce
neither for separate nor for distinct or invidious treatment.
If this ever was the law, it has not been such for many
years.. In a sense it is a reversion to ideas once prevaISee, e. g. Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18;
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; U. S. Express
Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.335. And see especially discussion in
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255-257.
'Compare the opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKmrURTma in Northwest
Airlines v. Minnesota,322 U. S. 292.
5 As the Court says, "An exaction by a State from interstate commerce falls not because of a proven increase in the cost of the product.
What makes the tax invalid is the fact that there is interference by
a State with the freedom of interstate commerce." The only "interference" held to be important is the direct incidence of the tax on the
commerce, not the double burden or risk of it. Cf. notes 1 and 16.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RumnXGE, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

lent, but long since repudiated,6 about the "exclusiveness"
of Congress' power over interstate commerce which, if now
resurrected for general application, will strike down state
taxes in a great variety of forms sustained consistently of
late. Not since Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299,
has the notion prevailed that the mere existence of power
in Congress to.regulate commerce excludes the states from
exacting revenue from it through exercise of their powers
of taxation.' Yet if a general tax, applying to all commerce alike, is to be outlawed, regardless of discriminatory
consequences or actual or probable impeding effect in fact,
simply because it bears "directly" on the commerce and
for no other reason, not only will there be a resurrection
of Marshall's "exclusive" idea, never prevailing after the
Cooley case. The.effect will be to knock down many types
of state taxes held valid since that landmark decision.!
That consequence must follow if the presently asserted
basis for decision is to be taken as a principle fit for general
application and intended to be so used. We cannot assume that the Court intends it to be used otherwise, for
that would be to make of it an arbitrary formula applied
to dispose of the present case alone and having no validity
for any other situation. But the ground relied upon is
broad enough to include many other types of situation
and of tax, and cannot be restricted logically or in reason
to these narrow facts. If discrimination and real risk, in
See e.g. Ribble, State and National Power Over Commerce (1937)
204; Dowling, Interstate Commerce and State Power (1940) 27 Va.
L. Rev. 1, 3-10. See also Frankfurter, The Commerce Clause (1937)
53: "Had Marshall's theory of the 'dormant' commerce power prevailed, the taxable resources of the states would have been greatly confined. The full implications of his theory, if logically pursued, might
well have profoundly altered the relations between the states and the
central government."
7
See note 6. See also Wechsler, Stone and the Constitution (1946)
46 Col. L. Rev. 764, 785, quoted in note 10 infra.
8Cf. text infra at notes 14 to 16, also 21, and authorities cited.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RumnxmGi, J., concurring.

the sense of practical effect to clog or impede trade, are
irrelevant to the validity of this type of tax, they are
equally irrelevant to many others, unless sheer fiction and
arbitrary distinction based on inconsequential factors are
to be controlling. If the grounding which disregards them
is adequate for disposing of this case, it is adequate also
for disposing of many others involving it in which the
Court has been at great pains to rest on other factors,
unnecessarily it now would seem.
It will be appropriate, before turning to further consideration of the more pertinent decisions, to note the only
basis upon which the Court grounds its ruling that "direct"
state taxes on "the very process" of interstate commerce
are void. This is because, in the words of the opinion,
the commerce clause "by its own force created an area of
trade free from interference by the States." Although
this is stated as grounding for the long-established conclusion that even without implementing legislation by
Congress the clause is a limitation upon state power, it
also is quite obviously the foundation of the further conclusion that "direct" taxes laid by the states within that
area are outlawed regardless of any other factor than their
direct incidence upon it.
II.

I agree that the commerce clause "of its own force"
places restrictions upon state power to tax, as well as to
regulate, interstate commerce. This has been held
through various lines of decision extending back to Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.. 1, some of them unbroken I
also agree that this construction is consonant with the
great purpose of the commerce clause to maintain our dis"See e. g., Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;.
Real Silk Hosiery Mills v. Portland, 268 U. S. 325; Nippert v.
Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, and authorities cited.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

tinctively national trade free from state restrictions and
barriers against it which the clause was adopted to prevent.
But, at any rate since Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra,
this has not meant that the clause was intended to or could
secure "by its own force" that vast area of commercial

activity wholly free from "interference," that is, from tax0
ation and regulation, by the states."
Nor for many years
has it meant that the field of interstate commerce is to be
free from such "interference," simply because it is "direct"
or has immediate incidence upon it." True, language
frequently appears in the oases, especially the earlier ones,
to the effect that "direct" taxation and regulation by the
states are forbidden. But apart from its inconsistency

with both language and results in other cases,"2 in most
of those where it has appeared there were other invalidating factors, such as singling out the commerce for special
treatment, other types of discrimination, or failure to
10 See Ribble, supra, at 72 ff.; Frankfurter, supra, at 24, 56;
Wechsler, Stone and the Constitution (1946) 46 Col. L. Rev. 764,
785: "It will summarize his basic coneeption to say that as the issues
were framed in the long debate the position taken by the Court in
Cooley v. Board of Wardens comes closest to according with his
thought."
" "Experience has taught that the opposing demands that the commerce shall bear its share of local taxation, and that it shall not, on
the other hand, be subjected to multiple tax burdens merely because
it is interstate commerce, are not capable of reconciliation by resort
to the syllogism. Practical rather than logical distinctions must be
sought." Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250,
259. See also the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Stone in Di Santo v.
Pennsylvania,273 U. S.34, 44 (overruled by Californiav. Thompson,
313 U. S. 109), "In thus making use of the expressions, 'direct' and
'indirect interference' with commerce, we are doing little more than
using labels to describe a result rather than any trustworthy formula
by which it is reached."
12See, e. g., McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., 309
U. S.33; Gwin, White & Prince v. Hennejord,305 U. S. 434; Nippert
v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

265

J., concurring.

apportion where multiple state taxation could result if the
tax were sustained. 3
The fact is that "direct incidence" of a state tax or regulation, apart from the presence of such a factor, has long
13

Gross receipts taxes which have been sustained fall into the following groups: (a) Those which were fairly apportioned. See, e. g.,
Illinois Cent. R. v. Minnesota, 309 U. S. 157; Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. v.
Powers, 191 U. S. 379; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.
335; Ficklen v. Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1. (b) Those which have
been justified on a "local incidence" theory. See, e. g., Western Live
Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, with which compare
Fisher's Blend Station v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650; McGoldrick v.
Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., 309 U. S. 33; American Mfg. Co. v.
St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459. See also cases cited in note 21. In many
cases apportioned gross receipts taxes have been sustained not on the
ground that they were apportioned but that they were local in
nature. See, e. g.; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry., 142 U. S. 217; New
York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431; Wisconsin &
Michigan Ry. v. Powers, supra; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota,
supra.
Gross receipts taxes which have not been sustained fall into the
following groups: (a) Those which were not fairly apportioned. See,
e. g., Oklahoma v. Wells Fargo Co., 223 U. S. 298.
(b) Those which
were not apportioned and subjected interstate commerce to the risk
of multiple taxation. Philadelphia & So. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Rattermanv. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S.
411; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 439. Cf. Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230, as explained in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250,
256. (c) Those in which there was a discriminatory element in that
they were directed exclusively "at transportation and communication,"
Lockhart, Gross Receipts Taxes on Transportation (1943) 57 Harv.
L. Rev. 40, 65-66. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217,
and cf. New Jersey Tel. Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338. But see
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362. In both the
Galveston and New Jersey Telephone Company cases, although the
taxable events all occurred within the taxing state, the possibility of
multiple taxation was nevertheless present; (d) Those in which there

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RuTLEDGE, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

since been discarded as being in itself sufficient to outlaw
state legislation. "Local" regulations, under the Cooley
formula, bear directly on the commerce itself." But they
are not outlawed for that reason. Calling them "incidental," where this is done, does not make them "indirect,"
except in judicial perspective. Police regulations bear no
more indirectly or remotely upon the interstate commerce
which must observe them than upon the local commerce
falling equally within their incidence.
Again, an apportioned tax on interstate commerce is a
"direct" tax bearing immediately upon it in incidence.
But such a tax is not for that reason invalid. Decisions
have sustained such taxes repeatedly, regardless of their
direct bearing, provided the apportionment were fairly
made and no other vitiating element were present, such
as those above mentioned."8 It was this fact, without
question, which the Court had in mind in the Adams case,
when it carefully saved from its ban any question concerning such a tax as Indiana's if properly apportioned in
a situation like the ones presented there and now."
was no discrimination but a possible multiple burden. Fisher's Blend
Station v. Tax Comm'n, supra, as explained in Western Live Stock v.
Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. at 260-261. (e) Those in which there
was no discrimination, no apportionment and no possibility of multiple
burden. Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S.
90. This decision, it may be noted, might have been rested upon the
clause of the Constitution forbidding the states to tax exports. Cf.
Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U. S. 69.
14 Cf. Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109; Union Brokerage
Co. v.
Jensen, 322 U. S. 202; Robertson v. California,328 U. S. 440. Indeed,
sometimes police regulations bear more heavily on interstate commerce.
Cf. Robertson v. California,supra, and cases cited at note 28 therein.
25 See cases cited in note 13, supra.
'6 The Court said, in answer to the Indiana Supreme Court's emphasis upon the "generality and nondiscriminatory character" of the
levy, "but it is settled that this ivl not save the tax if it directly
burdens interstate commerce." 304 U. S,at 312; cf. note 1, supra.
The same statement is now made in this case not to support the

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEGE,

J., concurring.

III.
The language purporting to outlaw "direct" taxes because they are direct has appeared more frequently perhaps in relation to gross receipts taxes than any other,
including both "direct" taxes, apportioned and unappor-

tioned, and others considered "indirect" because purporting to be laid not "on the commerce itself" but upon some
"local incident." We have recently held that a tax having

effects forbidden by the commerce clause will not be saved
merely because it is cast in terms of bearing upon some
"local incident." 1 As we then said, all interstate commerce takes place within the states and the consequences

forbidden by the commerce clause cannot be achieved
legally simply by the device of hooking the tax or other
forbidden regulation to some selected "local incident."

That such a factor may be chosen for bearing the "direct"
conclusion that these features cannot save a tax where the risk of
multiple state taxation would outlaw it, as in the Adams case, but to
support the vastly broader grounding that the tax is invalid simply
because it is "direct" in its incidence. The quoted Adams statement
had no such significance, as appears not only from its immediate context but also from the further statement, made apropos of American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, in an effort to distinguish it: "It is
because the tax, forbidden as to interstate commerce, reaches indiscriminately and without apportionment, the gross compensation for
both interstate commerce and intrastate activities that it must fail in
its entirety so far as applied to receipts from sales interstate." (Emphasis added.) 304 U. S. at 314. Not "direct" taxation simply, but
taxing the entire proceeds without apportionment in the face of threatened or possible multiple state taxation was the "direct burden" found
and outlawed in the Adams case.
17"If the only thing necessary to sustain a state tax bearing upon
interstate commerce were to discover some local incident which might
be regarded as separate and distinct from 'the transportation or intercourse which is' the commerce itself and then to lay the tax on that
incident, all interstate commerce could be subjected to state taxation
and without regard to the substantial economic effects of the tax upon
the commerce." Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, 423.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RuTLOE, J., concurring.

329 U. S.

incidence of the tax may be a consideration to be taken into
account in determining its validity. But it cannot validate a tax or regulation which produces the forbidden
consequences, any more than a "direct tax" which does not.
produce them can be outlawed because it is direct. Not
"directness" or "immediacy" of incidence per se, whether
"upon the commerce itself" or upon a "local incident," is
the outlawing factor, but whether the tax, regardless of
the special point of incidence, has the consequences for
interstate trade intended to be outlawed by the commerce
clause.
The difficulty of any other rule or approach is disclosed
most clearly perhaps by contrasting the decision in American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, with the Adams
decision and this one, in both of which efforts are made,

unsuccessfully in my opinion, to distinguish the American
case.

There the tax was laid upon the manufacture, lo-

cally done, of goods sold locally and out of state.

But the

tax was "measured by" the gross receipts from sales of

the goods,
manufactured, including those sold inter1s
state

say that this was not in substance a tax on gross receipts,
because sales in St. Louis of goods made elsewhere were not taken into
account in measuring the tax, is simply to ignore the fact that the tax
did include all interstate sales of goods manufactured and all returns
from them. That the local sales of goods brought in from other states
were excepted does not mean either that those sales were interstate
transactions (which it was not necessary to decide in view of their
exemption) or that the sales out of state included in the measure were
not interstate transactions; or that they were not, in substantial effect,
taxed upon their gross returns by the measure, notwithstanding the
tax was made legally to fall upon the privilege of manufacturing.
The Adams decision purported to distinguish American Mfg. Co. V.
St. Louis simply on the ground that the tax was not one laid on the
taxpayer's sales or the income derived from them, but was a license
fee for engaging in the manufacture which could be measured "by the
sales price of the goods produced rather than by their value at the date
of manufacture."
'$To

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

A tax upon a local privilege measured by the volume of
gross receipts from both local and interstate trade "'would
seem to have in practical effect, the same consequences
for blocking or impeding the commerce as one laid "directly" upon it, in any situation where no multiple levy
is made, likewise in any where more than one state might
find such a local privilege for pegging the tax.' And a
tax upon gross receipts "in lieu of" property or other
taxes n cannot be said either to be less "direct" in its
incidence upon the commerce than the application of the
Indiana tax now in issue or to afford protection against
multiple levies the risk of which was held in Adams Mfg.
Co. v. Storen to make the Indiana tax*inherently vicious
in that application.22
Unless we are to return to the formalism of another day,
neither the "directness" of the incidence of a tax "upon the
commerce itself" nor the fact that its incidence is manipulated to rest upon some "local incident" of the interstate
transaction can be used as a criterion or, many times, as a
consideration of first importance in determining the validity of a state tax bearing upon or affecting interstate commerce. Not the words "direct" and "indirect" or "local
incident" can fulfill the function of judgment in deciding
1, In addition to American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, see
Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall,
274 U. S. 284; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Piost, 286 U. S. 165.
20 Cf. Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217,227; Morrison, State Taxation of Interstate Commerce (1942) 36 Ill. L. Rev.
727, 738.
2See
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688; U. S.
Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Pullman Co. v. Richardson,
261 U. S. 330. See also discussion in Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217,226-227.
"This is true, though concededly such a tax might work to prevent
cumulative or higher tax burdens imposed by a single taxing state.
Cf. Lockhart, Gross Receipts Taxes, on Interstate Transportation and
Communication (1943) 57 Harv. L. Rev. 40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

whether the tax brings the forbidden results. See the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Stone in Di Santo v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34, 44, quoted in note 11. That can
be done only by taking account of the specific effects of
state legislation the clause was intended to outlaw, and of
the consequences actual or probable of the legislation
called in question to create them.
IV.
Judgments of this character and magnitude cannot be
made by labels or formulae. They require much more
than pointing to a word. It is for this reason that increasingly with the years emphasis has been placed upon practical consequences and effects, either actual or threatened,
of questioned legislation to block or impede interstate
commerce or place it at practical disadvantage with the
local trade. 8 Formulae and adjectives have been retained
at times in intermixture with the effective practical considerations. But proportionately the stress upon them
has been greatly reduced, until the present decision; and
the trend of recent decisions to sustain state taxes formerly
regarded as invalid has been due in large part to this fact.
The commerce 9lause was not designed or intended to
outlaw all state taxes bearing "directly" on interstate commerce. Its design was only to exclude those having the
effects to block or impede it which called it and the Constitution itself into being. Not all state taxes, nor indeed
,all direct state taxes, can be said to produce those effects.
On the other hand, many "indirect" forms of state taxation, that is, "indirect" as related to "incidence," do in
fact produce such consequences and for that reason are
invalid.
"See Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416; Best & Co. v. Maxwell,
311 U. S.454. Cf. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Benjamin, 328 U. S. 408.
See also Wechsler, Stone and the Constitution (1946) 46 Col. L. Rev.

764,785-787.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDwE, J., concurring.

It is for this reason that selection of a "local incident"
for hanging the tax will not save it, if also the exaction
does not in fact avoid the outlawed interferences with the
free flow of commerce. Selection of a local incident for
pegging the tax has two functions relevant to determination of its validity. One is to make plain that the state
has sufficient factual connections with the transaction to
comply with due process requirements.2' The other is to
act as a safeguard, to some extent, against repetition of
the same or a similar tax by another state.' These mat-*
ters are often interrelated, cf. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, though in other situations they
may be entirely separate. The important difference is
between situations where it is essential to show minimal
factual connections of the transaction with the taxing
state in order to sustain the levy as against due process
objections for "want of jurisdiction to tax"; 26 and other
situations where, although such connections clearly are
present, the necessity is for showing that the tax, if sustained, will create a multiple tax load or other consequences having the forbidden effects.
This case is not one of the former sort. The transactions were as closely connected in fact with Indiana as
with any other state." But the case is one of the latter
21

See dissenting opinion in McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S. 327, at
356-357. See also Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435,

444-445.
See McNamara, Jurisdictional and Interstate Commerce Problems in the Imposition of Excises on Sales (1941) 8 Law & Contemp.
Prob. 482, 491. Compare the discussion of a proposed federal statute
to give the buyer's state the right to impose nondiscriminatory sales
taxes. Proc. 27th Ann. Conf. Nat. Tax Assn. (1934) 136-160. See
also Perkins, The Sales Tax and Transactions in Interstate Commerce
(1934) 12 N. C. L. Rev. 99.
" Cf. note 25.
2 Indiana was the state by whose law the trust was created. It was
the situs of the trust's administration. It was the place where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLMn

E,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

type, that is, where, despite those connections, there were
equally close and important ones in another state, New
York; and therefore, as the Adams case declared, the risk
of multiple state taxation would be incurred, unless one or
the other or both states were forbidden to tax the transaction as such, or were required to apportion the tax. Not
the "directness" of the tax in its bearing upon the commerce, but this danger is the crucial issue in this case, as it
was in the Adams case. In other words, but for the possibility that more states than one would levy the same or a
similar tax, such an application as was made of Indiana's
tax in the Adams case and here would be no more burdensome or objectionable than other applications of the same
tax this Court has sustained or of other taxes likewise
held valid.'
V.
This Court in recent years has gone far in sustaining
state taxes laid upon local incidents of interstate transactions by both the state of origin and the state of the marsecurities were kept prior to mailing for delivery in accordance with
the terms of their sale. Cf. Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357. The
directions for sale were given there. The proceeds were forwarded to
Indiana and there received into the corpus of the trust. The state's
connections with the trust, and with the property which was the
subject of the sale, more than satisfy any due process requirement for

exercise of the power to tax either the property or transactions relating to its disposition taking place as largely within Indiana's borders
as did the sales in this case.
2The cases, aside from Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307,
which involve the Indiana gross receipts tax are: Department of
Treasury v. Wood Preserving Corp., 313 U. S. 62; Department of
Treasury v. Ingram-RichardsonMfg. Co., 313 U. S. 252; International
Harvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340; Ford Motor Co. v.
Dept. of Treasury, 323 U. S. 459. See also General Trading Co. v.
State Tax Commission, 322 U. S. 335; cf. Northwest Airlines v.
Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

ket.1 Perhaps it may be said, in view of such decisions,
that it has more clearly sustained such taxes at the marketing end than by the state of origin,' although this may be
matter for debate. In any event, the factual connections
of the taxing state with the interstate transaction in the
cases where the tax has been sustained hardly can be regarded as greater or more important than those of Indiana
with the transactions involved in the Adams case and here.
Nor could it be shown in fact that in some of them, at
any rate, the danger of multiple state taxation was appreciably less, if it be assumed that the forwarding state has
the same power to tax the transaction, by pegging the tax
upon a local incident, as has been recognized for the state
of market.
Such taxes, whether in one state or the other, may in
fact block or impede interstate commerce as much as, or
more than, one placed directly upon the commerce itself.
They have been sustained, nevertheless, 'not simply because of their bearing upon a local incident, but because
in the circumstances of their application they were considered to have neither discriminatory effects upon interstate trade as compared with local commerce nor to impose
upon it the blocking or impeding effects which the commerce clause was taken to forbid.'

See, e. g., McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33; Nelson
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359; General Trading Co. v. Tax
Commission, 322 U. S. 335; Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue,
303 U. S. 250; Coverdale v. Arkansas-Louisiana Pipe Line Co., 303
U. S. 604; Department of Treasury v. Ingram-Richardson Mfg. Co.,
313 U. S. 252.
Compare McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, with
McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S. 327. See Powell, New Light on
Gross Receipts Taxes (1940) 53 Harv. L. Rev. 909.
31 See McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 58, quoted
infra Part VI.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

This in my judgment is the appropriate criterion to be
applied, rather than any mere question of "direct" or
"indirect" incidence upon a "local incident." The absence

of any such connection with the taxing state is highly

material.12 Its presence cannot be the controlling consideration for validating the tax. Nippert v. Richmond, 327
U. S. 416. In this view it would seem clear that the validity of such a tax as Indiana's, applied to situations like

those presented in the Adams case and now, should be
determined by reference not merely to the "direct inci-

dence" of the tax, but by whether those forbidden consequences would be produced, either through the actual
incidence of multiple taxes laid by different states or by
the threat of them, with resulting uncertainties producing

the same impeding consequences.'
Thus, it is highly doubtful that the levy in this case,
or in the Adams case, actually had any impeding effect
whatever upon the transactions or the free flow interstate
of such commerce.'
But the Adams case found the impediment in the assumption that if one state could tax,
so also could the other, and in that event, a double burden
would result for interstate commerce not borne by local
32 As a matter of minimal due process requirements. Cf. text infra
at notes 24 to 27.
33 The danger of an impending burden or barrier from multiple state
taxation could be real and substantial in a particular case if the threat
of such taxation were actual or probable or if its threatened incidence
were involved in such actual uncertainty that this uncertainty itself
would constitute, in practical effect, a substantial clog.
3The
Indiana tax was only one per cent of the proceeds of the sales.
The record indicates, too, that 'the New York Stock Transfer tax was
collected from the proceeds of the sale in New York. The amount of"
the tax was three cents per share sold for less than twenty dollars,
and four cents per share sold for more than twenty dollars. Tax Law
§§ 270, 270a; O'Kane v. New York, 283 N. Y. 439, 28 N. E. 2d 905.
The tax did not apply to the transfer of bonds. Cf. Op. Atty. Gen.
N. Y. 1939, p. 208.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

trade. This danger, it was said, was inherent in the type
of the tax, since it was not apportioned, and in consequence the tax as applied must fall.
The basic assumption was not true as a universally or
even a generally resulting consequence, for two reasons.
One is that it would not follow necessarily as a matter of
fact that both states would tax or, if they did so, that the
combined effects of the taxes would be either to clog or
to impede the commerce.' The other, it no more follows,
as a matter of law, that because one state may tax the
other may do likewise.
The Adams decision did not take account of any difference, as regards the risk of multiple state taxation,
between situations where the multiple burden would
actually or probably be incurred in fact and others in
which no such risk would be involved. It rather disregarded such differences, so that "the risk of a double tax
burden" on which the Court relied to invalidate the levy
was not one actually, probably, or even doubtfully imposed
in fact by another state." It rather was one which resulted only from an assumed, and an unexercised, power
in that state to impose a similar tax.
The Court was not concerned with whether the forbidden consequences had been incurred in the particular situation or might not be incurred in others covered by its
ruling. The motivating fear was more general. The
35 Cf. note 31. Whether such a tax would in fact produce the forbidden results or not would depend upon the incidence or likelihood of
the incidence of a like tax in the other, or another, jurisdiction having

similar power. Frequently this likelihood will be, in fact, either nil

or small.
3 The opinion discloses no consideration of any question or suggestion whether a like or other tax had been or was likely to be imposed
by the state of destination, or even that such a tax by that state was
doubtfully incident. Such an inquiry would have been inconsistent
with the Court's thesis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

329 U. S.

ultimate risk which the Court sought to avoid was the
danger that gross income or gross receipts tax legislation,
without apportionment, might be widely adopted if the
door were once opened and, if adopted and applied to
interstate sales by all or many of the states, would result
generally in bringing such sales within the incidence of
multiple state taxation of that nature. Rather than incur
this risk, with the anticipated consequent widespread creation of multiple levies, the Court in effect forestalled
them at the source. Its action was prophylactic and the
prophylaxis was made absolute.
By thus relieving interstate commerce from liability to
pay taxes in either state, without any showing that both
had laid them, the effect was, not simply to relieve that
commerce from multiple burden, but to give it exemption
from taxes all other trade must bear. 7 Local trade was
thus placed at disadvantage with interstate trade, by he
amount of the tax, and the commerce clause thereby became a refuge for tax exemption, not simply a means of
protection against unequal or undue taxation. Certainly
its object was not to create for interstate trade such a
specially privileged position.
But the alternatives to such a ruling were not themselves free from difficulty. They may be stated shortly.
But preliminarily I accept the view, frequently declared,"
that a state runs afoul the commerce clause when it singles
out interstate commerce for special taxation not applied to
other trade or otherwise discriminates against it or treats
it invidiously. Moreover, all other things being equal,
't It is assumed, of course, that a nondiscriminatory tax of general
applicability laid by the taxing state would be involved.
3See Be8t & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454; Hale v. Bimco Trading
Co.. 306 U. S. 375; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Webber v.
Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Voight v,
Wright, 141 U. S. 62: Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE, J.,

277 •

concurring.

multiple state taxation of gross receipts, although by nondiscriminatory taxes of general applicability, does compel
the latter to bear a heavier tax burden than local trade in
either state. The cumulative tax burden is in effect discriminatory, involving in any practical view the exact
effects of a single discriminatory tax. Although the difference in total tax load may not be sufficient actually to
block or impede the free flow of interstate trade,' discrim.ination alone, without regard to showing of further consequences, has been held consistently to be sufficient for
outlawing the tax.
This too I accept. For discrimination not only is ordinarily itself invidious treatment, but has an obvious tendency toward blocking or impeding the commerce, if not
always the actual effect of doing so. Nor is the discriminatory tendency or effect lessened because it results from
cumulation of tax burdens rather than from a single tax
producing the same consequence. To allow both states to
tax "to the fullest extent" would produce the invidious sort
of barrier or impediment the commerce clause was designed to stop. But the bare unexercised power of another state to tax does not produce such results. It only
opens the way for them to be produced. This danger
is not fanciful but real, more especially in a time when
new sources of revenue constantly are being sought.
Accordingly, I agree that this door should not be opened.
But it is not necessary to go as far as the Adams case
went, or as the decision n6w rendered goes, in order to
prevent the anticipated deluge. There is no need to give
interstate commerce a haven of refuge from taxation,
albeit of gross receipts or from "direct" incidence, in order
1 For a variety of reasons, apong which might be the larger capacity
of such trade to absorb the difference, by reason of greater volume,
without sustaining loss of profit, in the particular sort of commerce

or type of transaction. See also note 34.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

to safeguard it ftom evils against which the commerce
clause is designedly protective. Less broad and absolute
alternatives are available and are adequate for the purpose
of protection without creating the evils of total exemption.
The alternative methods available for avoiding the
multiple state tax burden may now be stated. They are:
(1) To apply the Adams ruling, stopping such taxes at
the source, unless the tax is apportioned, thus eliminating'
the cumulative burdens; 1 (2) To rule that either the
state of origin or the state of market, but not both, can
levy the exaction; (3) To determine factually in each case
whether application of the tax can be made by one state
without incurring actual danger of its being made in
another or the risk of real uncertainty whether in fact it
will be so made.
The Adams solution is not unobjectionable, for reasons
already set forth. To deprive either state, whether of
origin or of market, of the power to lay the tax, permitting
the other to do so, has. the vice of allowing one state to tax
but denying this power to the other when neither may be
as much affected by the deprivation as would be the one
allowed to tax and, in any event, both may have equal
or substantial due process connections with the transaction. The solution by factual determination in particular
cases of the actual or probable incidence of both taxes is
open to two objections. One is that to some extent it
would make the taxing power of one or both states depend
upon whether the other had exercised, or probably would
40 The Adams decision, of course, made no direct ruling upon an
actual tax laid by the state of destination. But the basic premise of
its rationalization would be altogether without substance if it were
taken to mean that such a tax could be levied there without meeting
the same barrier, and for the same reason, as the tax levied by Indiana,
the state of origin, encountered.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

279

J., concurring.

exercise, the same power. The other would lie in the
volume of litigation such a rule would incite and the
difficulties, in some cases at least, of making the factual
determination.
VI.
The problem of multiple state taxation, absent other
factors making for prohibition, is therefore one of choosing
among evils. There is no ideal solution. To leave the
matter to Congress, allowing both states to tax "to the
fullest extent" until it intervenes, would run counter not
only to the long-established rules requiring apportionment where incidence of multiple taxes would be likely,
but also in substance and effect to those forbidding discrimination, without the consent of Congress, cf. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Benjamin, 328 U. S. 408, as well as the
long-settled rule that the clause is "of its own force" a
prohibition upon the states. To require factual determination of forbidden effects in each case would be to
invite costly litigation, make decision turn in some cases,
perhaps many, on doubtful facts or conclusions, and encourage the enactment of legislation involving those consequences. The Adams ruling, as I have sAid, creates for
many situations a tax refuge for interstate commerce and
does this in both states.
As among the various possibilities, I think the solution
most nearly in accord with the commerce clause, at once
most consistent with its purpose and least objectionable
for producing either evils it. had no design to bring or
practical difficulties in administration, would be to vest
the power to tax in the state of the market, subject to
power in the forwarding state also to tax by allowing credit
to the full amount of any tax paid or due at the destination. This too is more nearly consonant with what the
more recent decisions have allowed, if full account is taken
of their effects.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

In McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S. 327, 361, I have set
forth the reasons leading to this conclusion. 1 It may be
added that such a result would avoid altogether the undesirable features of factual determination in each case;
would prevent the multiple and, in effect, discriminatory
burden which would follow from allowing both states to
tax until Congress should intervene; and would reduce by
half, at least, the tax refuge created by the Adams ruling,
without incurring other outlawed effects.
It is true this view logically would deny the state of origin power to tax, notwithstanding its adequate due process
connections, except by giving credit for taxes due at the
destination.'
But the forwarding state has no greater
power under the Adams ruling and none at all under the
present one if it is to be applied consistently and, as I think,
this can be taken to outlaw both unapportioned and
apportioned taxes.
I have no doubt that under the law prevailing until now

this tax would have been sustained, if apportioned, under
the Adams decision and others.' Nor have I any question
that such a tax laid by New York would be upheld under
4""If in this case it were necessary to choose between the state of
origin and that of market for the exercise of exclusive power to tax, or
for requiring allowance of credit in order to avoid the cumulative
burden, in my opinion the choice should lie in favor of the state of
market rather than the state of origin. The former is the state where
the goods must come in competition with those sold locally. It is the
one where the burden of the tax necessarily will fall equally on both
classes of trade. To choose the tax of the state of origin presents at
least some possibilities that the burden it imposes on its local trade,
with which the interstate traffic does not compete, at any rate directly,
will be heavier than that placed by the consuming state on its local
business
of the same character."
2
4 Credit allowed for taxes paid elsewhere, see Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577; General Trading Co. v. Tax Commission,
322 U. S. 335, is a form of apportionment, though not the only one
' See also Guin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

those decisions. Indeed, in my opinion, the necessary
effect of McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33,
as appellee asserts, is to sustain power in the state of the
market to tax "to the fullest extent" without apportionment by n6ndiscriminatory taxes of general applicability,
transactions essentially no different from the ones involved
in this case and in the Adams case.
It is true the Berwind-White case purported to distinguish the Adams case. But it did so by pointing out
that the New York tax was "conditioned upon a local
activity, delivery of goods within the state upon their
purchase for consumption" and that "the effect of the tax,
even though measured by the sales price, as has been
shown, neither discriminates against nor obstructs interstate commerce more than numerous other state taxes
which have repeatedly been sustained as involving no
prohibited regulation of interstate commerce." 309 U. S.
33,58.
This comes down'to sustaining the tax, as was done in
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, supra, relied upon to distinguish the Adams case, simply because the tax was
pegged upon the "local- incident" of delivery. Apart
from the reasons I have set forth above for regarding this £s not being controlling, that basis was flatly
repudiated in Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, as adequate for sustaining a tax having otherwise the forbidden
effects and features. So here, in my opinion, it is hardly
adequate to distinguish the Adams case, leaving it unimpaired, or to differentiate consistently the broader ruling
made in this case.
I therefore agree with the appellee that the effect of
the Berwind-White ruling was in substance, though not in
words, to qualify the Adams decision, and that the combined effect of the two cases, taken together, was to pertnit
the state of the market to tax the interstate transaction,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

329 U. S.

but to deny this power to the forwarding state, unless
by credit or otherwise it should make provision for apportionment. See Powell, New Light on Gross Receipts
Taxes (1940) 53 Harv. L. Rev. 909, 939. Whether or not
such a provision would save the Indiana tax as now applied, in view of what I think was the effect of BerwindWhite on any basis other than sheer formalism, need not
now be considered."
Whether or not .acknowledgment of this effect of the
Berwind-White decision would require reconsideration of
the validity of apportioned taxes otherwise than by full
credit, laid by the forwarding state, 5 neither that fact nor
the effect of Berwind-White in qualifying the Adams ruling justifies the broader ruling now made to reach the same
result as the Adams case reached. The trend of recent
decisions has been toward suctaining state taxes formerly,
regarded as outlawed by the commerce clause. The present decision, by its reversion to the formal and discarded
grounding in the "direct incidence" of the tax, is a reversal
of that trend. It is one, moreover, unnecessary for sustaining the result the Court has reached. Its consequence,
if followed in logical application to apportioned taxes, will
be to outlaw them, for they bear as "directly" on "the
commerce itself" as does the tax now stricken down in its
It is obvious that an apportioned tax laid by the forwarding state,
taken in conjunction with an unapportioned one levied by the state of
the market, would produce the effect of multiple state levies to the
extent of the apportioned tax unless the apportionment were made by
giving full credit for the other tax. In the latter event, of course,
there would be rio effect of multiple burden in the sense forbidden by
the rule requiring apportionment and sustaining properly apportioned taxes. In the absence of a credit to the full amount of the
marketing state's tax, the apportioned tax of the forwarding state,
although making a cumulative burden, would impose only a reduced
one4 as compared with an unapportioned tax by that state.
5 Cf.

note 44.

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

present application. So also does the type of tax sustained in the Berwind-White case, in everything but
verbalism.
I think the result now reached is justified, as necessary
to prevent the cumulative and therefore discriminatory
tax burden which would rest on or seriously threaten interstate commerce if more than one state is allowed to impose
the tax, as does Indiana, upon the gross receipts from the
sale without apportionment or credit for taxes validly
imposed elsewhere. This result would follow in view of
the Berwind-White decision and others like it,46 if not only
the state of the market but also the forwarding state could
tax the sale "to the fullest extent" upon the gross receipts.
For this reason I concur in the result.
But in doing so I dissent from grounding the decision
upon a foundation which not only will outlaw properly
apportioned taxes, thus going beyond the Adams decision,
unless the Court is merely to reiterate the rule forbidding
"direct" taxation of interstate sales only to recall iVwhen
a case involving a properly apportioned tax shall arise;
but also will require outlawing many other types of tax
heretofore sustained, unless a similar retreat is made.
MR.

JUSTICE

MURPHY

DOUGLAS,

with whom

MR. JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.

I think the Court confuses a gross receipts tax on the
Indiana broker with a gross receipts tax on his Indiana
customer. Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305
U. S. 434, would hold invalid a gross receipts tax, unappor46

See the "use tax" cases: General Trading Co. v. Tax Commission,

322 U. S. 35; Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62;
Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359; Nelson v. Montgomery
Ward & Co., 312 U. S. 373. See also Jagels v. Taylor, 309 U. S. 619,
discussed in McNamara, supra,note 25, at 487.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

tioned, on the broker. In that case the taxpayer was a
marketing agent for fruit growers in the State of Washington. The agent made sales and deliveries of the fruit
in other States and in foreign countries, collected the sales
prices, and remitted the proceeds, less charges, to the customers. The Court held that the gross receipts tax, being
unapportioned, was invalid. There are two reasons why
that result followed. In the first place, as the Court stated
at p. 437, "the entire service for which the compensation
is paid is in aid of the shipment and sale of merchandise"
in interstate or foreign commerce. "Such services are
within the protection of the commerce clause." In the
second place, as the Court stated at p. 439, "If Washington is free to exact such a tax, other states to which the
commerce extends may, with equal right, lay a tax similarly measured for the privilege of conducting within their
respective territorial limits the activities there which contribute to the service. The present tax, though nominally
local, thus in its practical operation discriminates against
interstate commerce, since it imposes upon it, merely
because interstate commerce is being done, the risk of a
multiple burden to which local commerce is not
exposed."
Under that view a tax on the commissions of the Indiana
broker would be invalid. But I see no more reason for giving the customer immunity than I would for giving immunity to the fruit growers who sold their fruit through
the broker in Guin, White & Prince, Inc v. Henneford,
supra.

Concededly almost any local activity could, if integrated
with earlier or subsequent transactions be treated as parts
of an interstate whole. In that view American Mfg. Co. v.
St. Loui8, 250 U. S. 459, would find survival difficult. For
in that case a state tax on a manufacturer was upheld
though the tax was measured by the value of the goods

FREEMAN v. HEWIT.
249

DOUGLAS,

285

J., dissenting.

manufactured within the State and thereafter sold in interstate commerce. In Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250. a tax laid on the gross receipts of a
trade journal published in New Mexico was sustained although out-of-state advertisements were included in the
journal and there was interstate distribution of it. The
Court treated the local business as separate and'distinct
from the transportation and intercourse which are interstate commerce and which were employed to conduct the
business.
I think the least that can be said is that the local transactions or activities of this taxpayer can be as easily
untangled from the interstate activities of his broker.
Any receipt of income in Indiana from out-of-state
sources involves, of course, the use of interstate agencies of
communication. That alone, however, is no barrier to its
taxation by Indiana. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of
Revenue, supra. Cf. New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300
U. S: 308. The receipt of income in Indiana, like the delivery of property there, International Harvester Co. v.
Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, is a local transaction
which constitutionally can be made a taxable event. For
a local activity which is separate and distinct from interstate commerce may be taxed though interstate activity is
induced or occasioned by it. Western Live Stock v. Bureau
of Revenue, supra,p. 253. The management of an investment portfolio with income from out-of-state sources is as
much a local activity as the manufacture of goods destined
for interstate commerce, American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis,
supra, the publication of a trade journal with interstate
revenues, Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, supra,
or the growing of fruit for interstate markets, Gwin, White
& Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, supra. All such taxes affect
in some measure interstate commerce or increase the cost
of doing'it. But, as we pointed out in McGoldrick v. Ber-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

wind-White Coal Mining Co., 309 U. S. 33, 48, that is no
constitutional obstacle.
Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, is different. In
that case the taxpayer had its factory and place of business
in Indiana and sold its products in other States on orders
taken subject to approval at the home office. The Court
thought the risk of multiple taxation was real, because of
the interstate reach of the taxpayer's business activities.
The fact is that the incidence of that tax was comparable
to the incidence of an unapportioned tax on interstate
freight revenues.
The present tax is not aimed at interstate commerce and
does not discriminate against it. It is not imposed as a
levy for the privilege of doing it. It is not a tax on interstate transportation or communication. It is not an exaction on property in its interstate journey. It is not a tax
on interstate selling. The tax is on the proceeds of the
sales less the brokerage commissions and therefore does not
reach the revenues from the only interstate activities
involved in these transactions. It is therefore essentially
no different, so far as the Commerce Clause is concerned,
from a tax by Indiana on the proceeds of the sale of a farm
or other property in New York where the mails are used
to authorize it, to transmit the deed, and to receive the
proceeds.
I would adhere to the philosophy of our recent cases1
and affirm the judgment below.

1 Of which Gwin, White
& Prince, Inc. v. fenne ord, supra, Western

Live Stock v. Bureafi of Revenue, z;upra, and McGoldrick v.
Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., supra, are illustrative.

