CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

29

Syllabus.

14

is accentuated; and individuals, whatever may be said of
their morality, are fined and imprisoned contrary to
the wishes of Congress. I shall not be a party to that
process.
The consequence of prolonging the Caminetti principle
is to make the federal courts the arbiters of the morality
of those who cross state linesin the company of women
and girls. They must decide what is meant by "any other
immoral purpose' without regard to the standards plainly
set forth by Congress. I do not believe that this falls
within the legitimate scope of the judicial function. Nor
does it accord the respect to which Congressional pronouncements are entitled.
Hence I would reverse the judgments of conviction in
these cases.
CHAMPLIN REFINING CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 21.

Argued November 8, 9, 1945.-Reargued October 18, 21,
1946.-Decided November 18, 1946.

Appellant owns and operates a pipe line from its refinery in Oklahoma
to various distributing points in other States. It carries no commodities except its own, produced in its.own refinery and delivered
into its own storage tanks for sAle to its customers. Delivery is
made from appellant's storage tanks by means of truck racks or
railroad tank car racks and never directly from the pipe line. Appellant has never transported, offered to transport, or been asked to
transport any products belonging to others and has never filed any
tariffs of transportation charges with the Interstate Commerce Commission or any state commission or regulatory body. However,
the price at the terminal points, with some exceptions, includes the
f. o. b. price at the refinery, plus a~differential based on the railroad freight rate from the refinery' to final destination. The Interstate Commerce Commission ordered appellant to file an inventory

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

of its property for the purpose of valuation pursuant to § 19 (a)
of the Interstate Commerce Act. Held.
1. Appellant is a "common carrier" within the meaning of § 1 (3)
(a) of the Interstate Commerce Act; and the Commission's order requiring appellant to file an inventory of its property for purposes of
valuation pursuant to § 19 (a) is authorized by the Act. Pp. 32-34.
(a) Section 1 (3) (a) of the Act defines the'term "common
carrier" as including "all pipe line companies" and not merely those
engaged in the business of common law carriers'for hire. Pp. 33, 34.
(b) Appellant's operation is "transportation" within the meaning of § 1 (1) (b), which provides that the Act shall apply to
"common carriers" engaged in the "transportation of oil or other
commodity . ..by pipe line . . ." P. 34.
2. As so construed, the Act does not exceed the commerce power
of Congress or violate the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 34,35.
(a) The power o'fCongress to regulate interstate commerce
is not dependent on a technical common carrier status but is quite
as extensive over a private carrier. P. 35.
(b) It is adequate to support a requirement that appellant
furnish information as to facilities being used in interstate marketing
of its products-whether appellant be considered a private carrier
or a common carrier: P. 35.
(c) A mere requirement that appellant provide information
about a subject within the power possessed by Congress and delegated to the Commission cannot be considered a taking of property.
P. 35.
59 F. Supp. 978, affirmed.

A three-judge District Court denied an injunction
against an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
requiring appellant to file an inventory of its pipe line
property for purposes of valuation pursuant to § 19 (a)
of the Interstate Commerce Act. 59 F. Supp. 978.
Affirmed, p. 35.

Dan Moody argued the cause for appellant on the original argument. With him on the briefs was Harry 0.
Glasser. Both argued the cause on reargument.
Edward Dumbauld argued the cause for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appel-

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 31
29

Opinion of the Court.

lees. With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Daniel W.
Knowlton and Nelson Thomas.
MR. -JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under
§ 19 (a) of the Interstate Commerce'Act,' ordered the
appellant to furnish certain inventories, schedules, maps
and charts of its pipe line property.2 Champlin's objections that the Act does not authorize the order, or if it be
construed to do so is unconstitutional, were overruled by
the Commission and again by the District Court which
dismissed the company's suit for an injunction.3 These
1 ,,... the commission shall . . .investigate, ascertain, and report

the value of all the property owned or used by every common carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act ....

The commission shall make

an inventory which shall list the property of every common carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act in detail, and show the value
thereof as hereinafter provided, and shall classify the physical property, as nearly as. practicable, in conformity with the classification of
expenditures for road and equipment, as prescribed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission." 37 Stat. 701, 49 U. S. C. § 19a.
2On May 15, 1941, the Interstate Commerce Commission, by letter
addressed to the president of the Champlin Refining Company,
requested that the company prepare and file with the Commission
"a complete inventory of the pipe line property of the Champlin
Refining Company, except land, showing the quantities, units, classes,
kinds, and condition thereof." The Commission enclosed with its letter
copies of its Valuation Orders Nos. 26 and 27, with which the inventory
was to comply. The Champlin company did not respond to the request in a manner satisfactory to the Commission, and on June 12,
1944, the Commission made the order of which the company here
complains. It directed the company to comply with the provisions of
Valuation Orders Nos. 26 and 27 within ninety days of the service
of the order.
1 In response to the Commission's letter of May 15, 1941, the
Champlin, company filed with the Commission information and charts
which it believed would satisfy the Commission's request. The Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the, Court.

329 U. S.

questions of law are brought here by appeal. Judicial
Code § 238, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
Champlin owns ahd operates a line of six-inch pipe five
hundred and sixteen miles in length lying in five states.
Originating at Champlin's Enid, Oklahoma refinery, it
crosses Kansas, Nebraska, a part of South Dakota, and
ends in Iowa. It is used only to convey the company's
own refinery products to its own terminal stations at
Hutchinson, Kansas; Superior, Nebraska; and Rock Rapids, Iowa, at each of which the line connects with storage
facilities from which deliveries are made.
The statute, so far as relevant, says that it shall apply
"to common carriers engaged in" "transportation of oil or
other commodity" by pipe line from one state to another.
It provides also that "common carrier" includes "all pipeline companies."' This language on its face would seem
to cover the appellant's operation.
mission, however, returned that report to the 'company, because in it
the company had not recognized that it was a statutory common carrier and had not compiled the report from that viewpoint. The
company then requested a hearing before the Commission to determine
its status. On December 14, 1942, and on reargument, June 12, 1944,
the Commission decided that appellant is a common carrier subject to
the provisions of the Act. After the Commission had issued its supplementary order of June 12, 1944, appellant petitioned the district
court for an injunction against the order. In accordance with §§ 46
and 47.of Title 28, U. S.:C., the district judge convened a three judge
court, which heard the case and dismissed appellant's petition.
' § 1. "(1) That the provisions of this Act shall apply to common
carriers engaged in"(b) The transportation of oil or other commodity . .. by pipe
line . . .from one State . ..to any other State .. .
'(3) (a) The term 'common carrier' as used in this Act shall include
all pipe-line companies; express companies; sleeping-car companies;
and all persons, natural or artificial, engaged in such transportation
as aforesaid as common carriers for hire." 41 Stat. 474, as amended,
48 Stat. 1102, 49 U. S. C. § 1. The last words of § 1 (3) (a), "engaged
in such transportation as aforesaid as common carriers for hire," do

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 33
29

Opinion of the Court.

Champlin contends, however, that the "transportation"
mentioned in the Act does not refer to the carriage of one's
own goods. The District Court has found that Champlin
is the sole owner of the products transported through its
pipe line; it has never transported, offered to transport,
or been asked to transport any products belonging to any
other company or person; its pipe line does not connect
with any other pipe line but only with storage tanks at
the three terminal points; there are no facilities for putting
any petroleum product into the line other than at the Enid
refinery; delivery of the products at the three terminal
points is made from Champlin's storage tanks by means
of truck racks or railroad tank car racks and is not made
directly from the pipe line in any instance; no tariffs stating' transportation charges have been filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission or with any state commission or regulatory body.
Because of these facts the appellant suggests that the
language and holding of this Court concerning the Uncle
Sam Oil Company in The Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548,
approved in Valvoline Oil Company v. United States, 308
U. S. 141, govern this case. The Uncle Sam Company
operation is described as "simply drawing oil'from its own
wells across a state line to its own refinery for its own use,
and that is all . . . ." The Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548,
562. The Court considered this was not "transportation"
within the meaning of the Act.
But we think it would expand the actual holding of
that case to apply its conclusion to Champlin. The controlling fact under the statute is transporting commodities
from state to state by pipe line. Admittedly Champlin is
not a common carrier in the sense of the common law carrier for hire. However, the Act does not stop at this but
"not affect the generality of the first clause as to pipe-line companies."
Valvoline Oil Co. v.. United States, 308 U. S. 141, 146.

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

goes on to say that its use of the term "common ,carrier"
is to include all pipe line companies-a meaningless addition if it thereby included only what the term without
more always had included. While Champlin technically
is transporting its own oil, manufacturing processes have
been completed; the oil is not being moved for Champlin's
own use. These interstate facilities are operated to put
its finished products in the market in interstate commerce
at the greatest economic advantage.
Examination of Champlin's pricing methods supports
the view that appellant is engaged in transportation even
though the products are still its own when moved. The
District Court found that price at the terminal points
includes f. o. b. price at the Enid refinery and an additional sum called a differential. The differential is the
through railroad freight rate from Enid to the final destination (usually the purchaser's place of business), less the
carrying charges from the pipe line terminal to final destination. The District Court found, however, that
competitive and other conditions "sometimes cause departures from the prices arrived at ir)accordance with the
formula above described." Appellant states that as to
some deliveries "rail rates were used merely as a basis for
calculating a delivered price, not as a charge for transportation." Even so, andeven though departures from the
calculated differential are substantial and frequent, we
think this practice points up a significant distinction from
the Uncle Sam case.
We hold that Champlin's operation is transportation
within the meaning of the Act and that the statute supports the Corhmission's order to furnish information.
Appellant further contends that, as so construed, the
Act exceeds the commerce power of Congress and violates
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment because, it
is argued, this interpretation converts a private pipe
line into a public utility and requires a private carrier to,

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

35

PRim, J., dissenting.

29

become a common carrier. But our conclusion rests on no
such basis and affords no such implication. The power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce is not dependent
on the technical common, carrier status but is quite as
extensive over a private carrier. This power has yet been.
invoked only to the extent of requiring Champlin to
furnish certain information as to facilities being used in
interstate marketing of its products. The commerce
power is adequate to support this requirement whether
appellant be considered a private carrier or a common
carrier.
The contention that the statute as so construed violates
the due process clause by imposing upon a private carrier
the obligations of a conventional common carrier for hire
is too premature and hypothetical to warrant consideration on this record. The appellant in its entire period of
operation has never been asked to carry the products of
another and may never be. - So far, the Commission has
made no order which changes the appellant's obligations
to any other company or person. If it does, it will be
timely to consider concrete requirements and their specific
effects on appellant. At present, appellant is asked only
to provide information about a subject within the power
possessed by Congress and delegated to the Commission,
and that cannot.be considered a taking of property even if
it arouses appellant's premonitions.
We hold that the order before us is authorized by statute
and that in this respect the statute is within the commerce
power and does not offend the Fifth Amendment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

REED,

with whom MR. JUSrICE FRANK-

FURTER, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

join, dissenting.
This appeal brings into question the extent to which the
Interstate Commerce Act covers pipe lines by virtue of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

the provisions of § 1 and § 19a.1 Acting under the authority of these sections, the Interstate Commerce Commission
called upon the appellant, Champlin Refining Company,
for reports deemed appropriate for it to make, if it is a common carrier under the act. The appellant challenged the
Commission's order on the ground that it was not covered

by the sections.
Champlin owns a pipe line for the carriage of oil or other
similar commodity from its refinery in Oklahoma to various distributing points in other states. It carries no commodities except its own produced in its own refinery and
delivered at the ends of the pipe line into its own storage
or holding tanks for sale to its customers. It also is sole
owner of the stock of the Cimarron Valley Pipe Line Company, admittedly an intrastate common carrier, that supplies the Champlii refinery .with its crude oil. The
Commission's orders for valuation reports do not treat
149 U. S. C. § 1:

"(1) . . . The provisions of this chapter'shall apply to common
carriers engaged in"(b) The transportation of oil or other commodity, except water
and except natural or artificial gas, by pipe line, or partly by pipe line
and partly by railroad or by water;
"(3) (a) The term 'common carrier' as used in this chapter shall
include all pipe-line companies; express companies; sleeping-car companies; and all persons, ztatural or artificial, engaged in such transportation as aforesaid as common carriers for hire .. .."
49 U. S. C. § 19a: .
The Commission shall . . .investigate, ascertain, and report

the value of all the property owned or used by every common carrier
subject to the provisions of this chapter .... The Commission
shall . . . make an inventory which shall list the property of every

common carrier subject to the provisions of this chapter in detail, and
show the value thereof as hereinafter provided, and shall classify the
physical property, as nearly as practicable, in conformity with the
classification of expenditures for road and equipment, as prescribed
by the Interstate Commerce Commission."

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
29

Rmz,

37

J., dissenting.

Champlin and Cimarron as a unitary operation. The
Commission, at this bar, disclaimed expressly any intention to test the subjection of Champlin's distributing pipe
line to Commission power by Champlin's ownership of the
Cimarron stock. As the Court treats the situation as
though Champlin's distributing pipe line, between the
refinery and the sale tanks only, were involved, we accept
for the purpose of this dissent the Commission's view of
the test to be applied to Champlin.
Section ,1of the act applies its provisions to "common
carriers engaged in the transportation of oil" or similar
commodities. In The Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S.548, and
Valvoline Oil Co. v. United States, 308 U. S. 141, this
Court interpreted the term "common carrier" to include
all interstate pipe-line companies that are engaged, within
the purview of the act, in the transportation of oil. In
these cases, pipe-line companies that carried only their
own oil, although all or a large part of it was purchased
from producers prior to its carriage in the pipe lines, were
held common carriers within the meaning and purpose
of the act, though not common carriers in the technical
sense of holding one's self out to carry indiscriminately all
oil offered, because the act's evident purpose was .to bring
within its sc6pe all pipe lines that would carry all oil
offered "if only the offerers would sell" at the carrier's
price. In the Valvoline case, this interpretation of the
1906 Act,.34 Stat. 584, was found to have been carried
into the act as amended in 1920, 41 Stat. 474, despite
certain changes ii language. 308 U. S. at 145.
It is to be noted, however, that the Pipe Line and Valvoline cases did not bring within the scope of the Interstate
Commerce Act all pipe lines that carried oil interstate. If
the companies were common carriers in substance, the act
made them so in form. Those pipe lines held covered by
the act in The Pipe Line Cases and Valvoline were found
common carriers in substance because they purchased and

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED, J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

carried all oil offered. The Interstate Commerce Act continually has required such carriers to be engaged in the
transportation of oil or other commodities. In The Pipe
Line Cases, a company, Uncle Sam Oil Company, though
operating a pipe line carrying oil, was held beyond the act's
reach because not engaged in the transportation of oil as a
common carrier within the purpose of the act.
"When, as in this case, a company is simply drawing
oil from its own wells across a state line to its. own
refinery for its own use, and that is all, we do not
regard it as falling within the description of the act,
the transportation being merely an incident to use at
the end." 234 U. S. at 562.
There has been no change bearing on this question
in the applicable 'acts since The Pipe Line Cases. " As a
matter of statutory construction, we see no reason to
change from this Court's long-standing interpretation.
If Congress desires to undertake regulation of the transportation of an interstate carrier, in substance a private
carrier, it understands the method of approach. 49
U. S. C. § 304 (a) (3). There is no pertinent legislative
hisfory to support so broad an interpretation of pipe line
legislation. The evil sought to be remedied was the
mastery of oil through control of the gathering facilities.' If a line does not carry oil of others, it is not transporting within the contemplation of the act.
In the Uncle Sam case it was said that the transportation
of oil from well to refinery was "merely an incident to use
at the end." We see no difference between the use contemplated by the Uncle Sam Company and this company.
U. S. at 558-59:
"By the before mentioned and subordinate lines the Standard Oil
Company had made itself master of the only practicable oil transportation between the oil fields east of'California and the Atlantic Ocean
and carried much the greater part of the oil between those points."
2 234

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
29

39

Rm, J., dissenting.

Each carries its own oil for the same ultimate purpose-to
reach the market.
Nor can we see any significant distinction from the
Uncle Sam case in the practice of Champlin to use frequently the freight rate from Enid to the final destination
as a measure of the addition to Enid refinery, f. o. b. price
that it will charge at its distributing tanks. This practice
is departed from to meet competition. Naturally some
transportation cost must be added to the refinery price for
deliveries elsewhere. How much it is or how it is calculated does not seem to us to b9ar upon the question of
whether Champlin is "a common carrier engaged in the
transportation of oil" within the scope of the act.
We would have a very different case than the one before
us if Congress had providedthat all owners of pipe lines
carrying oil in interstate commerce should give appropriate information to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
This is not what § 19a does. It requires reports only from
"every common carrier subject to the provisions" of the
act. When an enterprise is "subject to the provisions" of
the act is defined by § 1 (1) (b) and §.l (3). Therefore,
it is not § 19a but § -1that must be construed. The definition of § 1 flows not only into § 19a but also into various
other sections. Once an enterprise is found to be included
in § 1, the Interstate Commerce Act eubjects it~to § 19a
and other provisions dealing with common carrie-rs "subject •to" the act. Thus, to give two instances, it must
provide equal and reasonable transportation to all comers,
(§ 1 (4)-(.6)); and it must file a schedule of rates
(§ 6 (1)). If, therefore, any doubt is felt about the applicability of some of these requirements, the doubts are
properly to be taken into account in determining the
scope of. § 1. The range of servitudes to which this pipe
line is subjected by including it in § 1 bears vitally upon
whether such a. construction should be given to § 1.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

329 U. S.

For the reasons detailed above, we do not think that
Champlin is covered by the act and we would reverse the
decree of the District Court.
UNITED STATES v. ALCEA BAND OF

TILLAMOOKS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 26. Argued January 31, February 1, 1946.-Reargued October
25, 1946.-Decided November 25, 1946.
Under the Act of August 26, 1935, 49 Stat. 801, conferring jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims to adjudicate and render final judgment on
"any and all legal and equitable claims arising under or growing
out of the original Indian title, claim, or rights in, to, or upon the
whole or any part of the lands" previously occupied by certain
Indian tribes and bands in Oregon, held, that tribes which successfully identify themselves as entitled to sue under the Act, prove
their original Indian title to designated lands, and demonstrate that
their interest in such lands was taken without their consent and
without compensation, are entitled to recover compensation therefor without showing that the original Indian title ever was formally
recognized by the United States. Pp. 45-54.
103 Ct. Cl. 494,59 F. Supp. 934, affirmed.

Certain Indian tribes sued the United States in the
Court of Claims under the Act of August 26, 1935, 49 Stat.
801, and recovered judgment for Lhe taking without their
consent of their interest under original Indian title in
certain lands previously occupied by them. 103 Ct. Cl.
494, 59 F. Supp. 934. This Court granted certiorari. 326
U. S. 707. Affirmed, p. 54.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr.argued the cause for the United
States. -With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Bazelon and Roger
P. Marquis. J. Edward Williams and John C. Harrington
were also on the brief on the original argument.

