ELLIS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ELLIS v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 320.

Argued January 16, 17, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the evidence of the defendant's negligence (detailed in the opinion) was
sufficient to justify submission of the case to the jury; and the
judgment of the appellate court setting aside a verdict for the
plaintiff is reversed. Pp. 652-653.
2. The choice of conflicting versions of the way the accident happened,
the decision as to which witness was telling the truth, the inferences
to be drawn from uncontroverted as well as controverted facts, are
questions for the jury. P. 653.
3. If there is a reasonable basis in the record for concluding that there
was negligence of the employer which caused the injury, it would
be an invasion of the jury's function for an appellate court to draw
contrary inferences or to conclude that a different conclusion would
be more reasonable. Lavender v. Kurn, 327 U. S. 645. P. 653.
147 Neb. 18, 22 N. W. 2d 305, reversed.

In a suit in a Nebraska court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the plaintiff obtained a judgment on a
jury. verdict. The Supreme Court of Nebraska reversed
for insufficiency of the evidence to show negligence and
ordered the complaint dismissed. 146 Neb. 397, 19 N. W.
2d 641; 147 Neb. 18,22 N. W. 2d 305. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 706. Reversed, p. 653.
George Mecham argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were L. Wm. Crawhall and William A.

Tautges.
Robert B. Hamer argued the cause for respondent.

With him on the brief was Thomas W. Bockes.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

Petitioner was crushed between a moving railroad car

and a building while working for respondent railroad as

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

an engine foreman in charge of a switching crew. Damages for personal injuries were sought in a Nebraska state
court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat.
65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. ยง 51 et seq. Judgment was rendered for petitioner on a jury verdict for $10,000, but on
appeal the state Supreme Court reversed for insufficiency
of evidence to show negligence, and ordered the complaint
dismissed. 146 Neb. 397, 19 N. W. 2d 641; 147 Neb. 18,
22 N. W. 2d 305. We granted certiorari because of an
apparent conflict between that decision and Lavender v.
Kurn, 327 U. S.645.
Petitioner's evidence tended to show the following:
Petitioner, aged 41, had been in the employ of respondent
only one year, and had a total railroad experience of
two or three years. Just before sunset on March 15,
1943, he was engaged, along with other members of his
crew, in backing an engine and box car around a curve
on a spur track where visibility was obstructed by a building located on the inside and near the middle of the curve.
He was standing on the ground on the same side as the
building and to the right of the engine, and was controlling
operations by hand signals to the engineer. Engine foremen frequently stand to the right of the engine, on the
engineer's side of the cab. A switchman was located
around the curve, out of sight of the engineer, on a loading platform at which the car was to be "spotted." Petitioner moved between the building and the track in an
attempt to be in a central position from which he could
receive signals from the switchman and relay them to the
engineer. As the car moved past petitioner, it caught and
pinned the upper part of his body against the wall of the
building, causing serious injuries. The situation was deceptive because the overhang of the car on the curve and
its tilt toward the building resulting from a higher outside rail, reduced clearance materially. In fact, the place
where petitioner was standing was in the one short segment

ELLIS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
649

Opinion of the Court.

of. the arc of the curve where clearance was insufficient.
Petitioner was unfamiliar with the area and its hazards;
if there was a sign warning of the danger, he did not see it;
no effort was made to warn him personally. The nearness
of the track to the building created an unsafe place for
work. Though the engineer was an experienced railroad
worker thoroughly familiar with this particular spur, and
though it was his duty to watch petitioner continuously
or stop the engine,1 he failed either to warn petitioner or
to stop in time to avert the tragedy. During the operation
the engineer could see the right side of petitioner and when
he saw petitioner's right foot twisted on the ground, he
stopped the train.
Respondent's evidence, on the other hand, tended to
establish the following: Petitioner was inconsistent in his
statements, and it actually appeared that he had worked
around this spur a number of times. The clearance, once
adequate, was impaired by a subsequent extension of the
building over which' the respondent had no control.
Neither the overhang of the car nor the pitch of the curve
was unusual. Respondent maintained, near the building
and some eight feet above the ground, a prominent,
legible sign reading "IMPAIRED CLEARANCE." It
was not required or desirable that petitioner stand between
the building and the track; he could equally well have performed his functions on the left, or safe, side of the engine.
He did not stand where he could see the switchman, and,
in fact, it was not necessary for him to relay signals from
the switchman since the engineer would be in a position to
watch the switchman himself when the car approached the
loading platform. The engineer had not worked on the
1The engineer was required to have some member of the crew in
sight at all times when the engine was in motion. At the time of the
accident, the undisputed testimony indicated that petitioner was the
only member of the crew that the engineer could see. The engineer
testified that he watched petitioner continuously.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ground and was not aware of the precise hazard; his distance from the petitioner (about 60 feet) and the configuration of the building were such that it was not apparent that the petitioner was in peril. That the engineer was vigilant is somewhat supported by the fact that
the train was moving only one or two miles an hour and
that he stopped it almost instantly, and within a distance
of 12 or 14 inches, when petitioner was pinned between
the car and the building.
From this evidence the jury might have concluded that
petitioner had a safe place to work but elected to choose a
dangerous one, that any duty of warning was fully discharged by the presence of the sign, and that the engineer
had not been negligent in any way. In that view of the
case the accident would be an unforeseeable, freak event or
one caused solely by petitioner's own negligence. On the
other hand, it would not have been unreasonable for the
triers of fact to have inferred that it was proper and
usual procedure to work on the right side of the engine,
that the hazard was not readily apparent and was almost
in the nature of a trap, that while the sign was placed so
as to be readily visible from a train, it was insufficient
warning to a man on the ground, and that consequently
petitioner was not furnished a safe place to work.' And
the jury might have thought that the engineer was negligent in failing to perceive the peril in time to avert the
accident by a warning or by stopping the engine. Again,
both partit3 might have been found negligent, in which
event it would have been the duty of the jury, as the trial
judge charged, to render a verdict based upon the damages
caused by respondent's negligence diminished by the pro2 The duty of the carrier to furnish a safe place to work "is not
relieved by the fact that the employee's work at the place in question
is fleeting or infrequent." Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319
II. S. 350, 353.

ELLIS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
649

Opinion of the Court.

portion of negligence attributable to petitioner. 45
U. S. C. ยง 53.
The Act does not make the employer the insurer of the
safety of his employees while they are on duty. The
basis of his liability is his negligence, not the fact that
injuries occur. And that negligence must be "in whole
or in part" the cause of the injury. 45 U. S. C. ยง 51; Brady
v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S. 476, 484. Whether those
standards are satisfied is a federal question, the rights created being federal rights. Brady v. Southern R. Co.,
supra; Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319 U. S. 350.
The choice of conflicting versions of the way the accident
happened, the decision as to which witness was telling the
truth, the inferences to be drawn from uncontroverted as
well as controverted facts, are questions for the jury. Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co., 321 U. S. 29; Lavender v.
Kurn, supra. Once there is a reasonable basis in the record for concluding that there was negligence which caused
the injury, it is irrelevant that fair-minded men might
reach a different conclusion. For then it would be an
invasion of the jury's function for an appellate court to
draw contrary inferences or to conclude that a different
conclusion would be more reasonable. Lavender v. Kurn,
supra, p. 652. And where, as here, the case turns on
controverted facts and the credibility of witnesses, the case
is peculiarly one for the jury. Washington & Georgetown
R. Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 572; Tiller v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 68.
We think the evidence raised substantial questions for
the jury to determine and that there was a reasonable
basis for the verdict which it returned.
Reversed.

