ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
Syllabus.

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN-DETROIT" AXLE
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued April 25, 26,1945. Reargued October 24,25, 1946.Decided December 9, 1946.

1. This Court granted certiorari on a petition raising a question as
to the constitutionality of the Royalty Adjustment Act of October
31, 1942, 56 Stat. 1013, and an order of the War Department issued
thereunder. After hearing arguments and setting the case for reargument, it found that, in addition to the constitutional question,
the Circuit Court of Appeals had before it, but did not pass upon,
a question as to the applicability of the Act. Held: The judgment
of the Circuit Couit of Appeals is vacated and the case is remanded
to it for decision of any non-constitutional issues material to the
appeal. Pp. 132, 136, 142.
(a) Neither this Court nor the lower courts should pass on the
constitutionality of an act of Congress unless such adjudication is
unavoidable,, even though the question is properly presented by
the record. P. 136.
(b) The Circuit Court of Appeals should have passed on th9
applicability of the Act and the order before considering their
constitutionality, since a decision on their applicability might have
made unnecessary any consideration of their constitutionality.
P. 137.
(c) That much time has been wasted by the earlier failure of
the parties to indicate, or the Circuit Court of Appeals or this Court
to see, the course which should have been followed is no reason to
continue on the wrong course or to disregard the traditional policy
of avoiding constitutional questions. P. 142.
2. The primary purpose of the Royalty Adjustment Act was to reduce
royalties for which the United States was ultimately liable on inventions manufactured for it by a licensee, from pre-war rates to rates
appropriate to the volume of production in wartime. P. 134.
3. The applicability of the Royalty Adjustment Act and the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims thereunder turn, not on a claim of
coverage, but on actual coverage by a patent and license of an
invention manufactured for the United States and upon a condition
subsequent-the issuance of notice that the department head be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

329 U. S.

lieves the stipulated royalties to be unreasonable. Smithers v.
Smith. 204 U. S. 632, and Bell v. HoOd, 327 U. S. 678, distinguished.
Pp. 137-139.
4. The fact that a suit in a District Court involving the question
whether certain products manufactured'for the United States in wartime were covered by a patent and license might have been dismissed
and the owner of the patent relegated to the Court of Claims under
the Act of June 25, 1910, as amended, 35 U. S. C. § 68, if the Royalty
Adjustient Act werelnapplicable because the products were not
covered by the license, was no reason for the Circuit Court of
Appeals to fail to pass on the question of coverage; since the constitutionality of 35 U. S. C. § 68 already has been sustained by this
Court and a dismissal under that section would not have required
a decision on any constitutionaIt'uestion. Pp. 139, 140.
5. Section 2 of the Royalty Adjustment Act, providing that, if the
licensor sues in the Court of Claims, the United States may avail
itself of all d0ft'nses that might be pleaded by a defendant in an
infringement suit, does not require that all suits involving licenses
under the Act and presenting questions of coverage or validity be
tried in the Court of Claims. Pp. 140, 141.
6. Neither party having appealed from the part of the judgment of
the District Court holding that some of the products were covered
by the patent and license, the Circuit Court of Appeals was not
properly concerned with their coverage or with the applicability of
the Royalty Adjustment Act to them; the part of its order affecting
those prolucts was unwarranted; and it shoufld not now be made
the basis for approving a constitutional decision which was otherwise
unnecessary. P. 141.
144 F. 2d 714, judgment vacated and case remanded.

In a suit to determine the validity of a patent and the
rights of a licensor and.licensee thereunder, the District
Court held that the licensee .was estopped to contest the
validity of the patent, ifhat some of its products were not
covered, that others wer'e covered and that the licensee was
indebted for royalties. 47 F. Supp. 582. Only the
licensor appealed. ,While the appeal was pending, the
War Department, pursuant to the Royalty Adjustment
Act of October 31, 1942, 56 Stat. 1013, 35 U. S. C. Supp. V,
§§ 89-96, issued notice stopping payment of royalties by

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
129

Counsel for Parties.

the licensee on products manufactured for the United
States and an order fixing a "fair and just" royalty at zero,
on the theory that the patent was invalid. . Thereupon
the licensee moved to dismiss the appeal and remand to the
District Court with directions to vacate its judgment-on
the ground that the products were manufactured for the
United States alone and that the operation of the Royalty
Adjustment Act and the order thereunder transferred jurisdiction of the subject matter of the .entire case to the
Court of Claims. The licensor challenged the constitutionality of the Act and the Government intervened to
defend it. The Circuit Court of Appeals, without passing
on the applicability of the Act, sustained its constitutionality, vacated the judgment of the District Court, and
remanded the cause with instructions to proceed no further until a justiciable controversy exists between the
parties. 144 F. 2d 714. This Court granted certiorari,
324 U. S. 832, heard arguments, and set the case for reargument. Then the Government suggested for the first time
that the Circuit Court of Appeals should have avoided the
question of constitutionality by first considering the question of coverage. The judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is vacated and the case remanded for decision of
any non-constitutional issues material to the appeal.
P. 142.
I. Joseph Farley argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner on the original argument. Thomas J. Hughes
and John G. Buchananargued the cause for petitioner on
the reargument. Messrs. Hughes and Farley filed a brief
on the reargument.
Assistant Attorney General Shea argued the cause for
the United States, respondent, on the original argument.
With him on the brief *ere Solicitor General Fahy, David
L. Kreeger and Jerome H. Simonds' Assistant Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

General Sonnett argued the cause for the United States,
respondent, on the reargument. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General McGrath, Arnold Raum, Paul A.
Sweeney and Joseph B. Goldman.
William A. Stranch argued the cause for the TimkenDetroit Axle Co., respondent. With him on the briefs was
J: Matthews Neale. James A. Hoffman was also on the
brief on the original argument.
James D. Carpenter,Jr. and John G. Buchanan filed a
brief on the original argument for Roscoe A. Coffman, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal. William H. Webb and
John G. Buchanan,Jr.were also with them on the brief on
the reargument.
MR. CHIEF'JUSTICE VINsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Certiorari was granted in this case February 5, 1945, on
a petition addressed to the question of the constitutionality of the Royalty Adjustment Act of October 31, 1942,
and of Royalty Adjustment Order No. W-3, issued by the
War Department July 28, 1943. We find now, however,
that the Circuit Court of Appeals hid before it, not only
the constitutional question, which was decided, but also a
non-constitutional question, which alone might properly
have served as an adequate ground on which to dispose of
the appeal. This non-constitutional question was neither
considered nor decided by the court below, nor argued
here. We have concluded, therefore, that we should not
pass on the constitutional question at this time, but should
vacate the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
remand the case to it for decision of any non-constitutional
issues material to the appeal.

156 Stat. 1013,35 U. S. C. Supp. V, §§ 89-96.

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
129

Opinion of the Court.

To explain the reasons for this conclusion, we must state
the history of the present proceedings in some detail.
They were begun by a complaint in a District Court filed
by respondent, The Timken-Detroit Axle Company,
against petitioner, Alma Motor Company, asking a declaratory judgment as to their respective rights under a
patent held by Alma and a coextensive license from Alma
to Timken. The complaint alleged the existence of the
patent, purporting to cover certain "transfer cases" or
auxiliary automotive transmissions, and the license, by
which Timken was authorized to manufacture the patented articles and required to pay certain specified royalties. It further alleged that Timken was engaged in
manufacturing various designs of transfer cases, that some
of these were once believed to have been covered by Alma's
patent and had been made the subject of royalty payments, but on the basis of later information Timken had
concluded that none of them were covered, and that the
patent was invalid. It asked for a judgment confirming
this conclusion.
Alma answered, claiming that all Timken's
transfer
cases were covered, that the patent was valid, and
that Timken was estopped from challenging validity,
and counterclaimed for a money judgment for unpaid
royalties.
Following a trial, the District Court filed findings and an
opinion,2 and entered judgment December 2,1942. It held
Timken estopped from challenging the validity of Alma's
patent; that certain specified types of Timken's transfer
cases (generally those denominated T-32 and T-43) were
covered by the patent and license; that Timken was indebted to Alma for royalties thereon; and that other types
(generally those denominated T-79) were outside the
2Timken-Detroit Axle Co. v. Alma Mfotor Co., 47 F. Supp. 582

(D. Del. 1942).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

patent and license. The court indicated that unless the
parties could agree on the amount of the royalties so held
to be payable, a special master would be appointed to
determine the amount.
Shortly before this judgment was entered, Congress
enacted the Royalty Adjustment Act, which Alma seeks
to attack here. The primary purpose of this Act was to
reduce royalties for which the United States was ultimately liable on inventions manufactured for it by a
licensee, from pre-war rates to rates appropriate to the
volume of production in wartime. Whenever during the
war a government contractor manufactured under a
license, and the royalties seemed excessive to the head of
the department concerned, the latter was empowered to
stop payments by notice to the licensor and licensee, and
after a hearing, to fix by order "fair and just" royalties,
"taking into account the conditions of wartime production." ' Thereafter, the licensor could collect royalties
fiom the licensee only at the rate so determined. If the
licensor felt that the reduction was unfair, his remedy was
by suit against the United States in the Court of Claims,
where he could recover "fair and just compensation .. .
taking into account the conditions of wartime production."' Whatever reduction was effected by the order was
to inure to the benefit of the United States.
The notice, stopping payment of royalties from Timken
to Alma, was issued by the War Department December 30,
1942. Royalty Adjustment Order No. W-3 followed on
July 28, 1943, fixing a "fair and just" royalty at zero. The
basis of this determination was the alleged invalidity of
Alma's patent, which the United States claims that the
Act permits it to assert."
8 56 Stat. 1013, 35 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 89.
456 Stat. 1013, 35 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 90.
556 Stat. 1013,.35 U. S.C. Supp. V, § 90.

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
129

Opinion of the Court.

In the meantime, Alma had taken an appeal from Paragraph 5 of the judgment of the District Court, which held
that the T-79 transfer cases were outside the patent. Timken did not appeal. After the Order was promulgated,
Timken moved to dismiss the appeal and remand to the
District Court with directions to vacate its judgment. The
motion was predicated on an affidavit that Timken had
manufactured transfer cases for the United States alone,
together with the argument that the operation of the Act
and Order transferred jurisdiction of the subject matter,
of the entire case to the Court of Claims. Alma countered
with an attack on the constitutionality of the Act and
Order, primarily as working a deprivation of property in
contravention of the Fifth Amendment.
The United States had at this time already submitted
an amicus brief, in which it argued that the Order had
made the appeal moot; and when Alma's constitutional
attack was filed, the United States intervened in support
of the Act and Order.
In its opinion' the Circuit Court of Appeals considered
that the question of the applicability of the Act and Order
in this case was simply a question of their constitutional
validity. It proceeded to consider this latter question, and
decided that both the Act and the Order were entirely
valid. Accordingly, it entered the following order:
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
Court that paragraph 5 of the judgment of the said
District Court in this case be, and the same is hereby
vacated and the cause is remanded to the District
Court with directions to proceed no further therein
unless and until it shall appear to the Court that
a justiciable controversy again' exists ,between the
parties arising out of the facts set forth in the comB

Timken-Detroit Axle Co. v. Alma Motor Co., 144 F. 2d 714 (CCA

3,1944).

?The word "again" was deleted by an order of October 2, 1944.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

plaint, except that the Court may, if it deems such
action to be appropriate, vacate all or any part of the
remainder of the judgment and dismiss the complaint
as moot."
The War Department notice was issued after the District Court's judgment, but before appeal was filed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals. It appears that at no time did
any party urge on the Circuit Court of Appeals or did that
court pass on the question whether the T-79 transfer cases
were covered by Alma's patent and license. Indeed, it
was not until after we had granted certiorari and heard
argument at the October 1944 term on the constitutional
question, and set the case clown for further argument this
term, that the United States pointed to this omission, and
suggested that the Circuit Court of Appeals should have
avoided the question of constitutionality by first considering the question of coverage. It argued here that the
prior determination of any non-constitutional questions
which might dispose of a controversy is a practice which
is dictated by sound' principles of judicial administration.
It moved to vacate the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and to remand the case to it for such determination. Both Alma and Timken opposed the motion. Action was withheld pending argument on the motion and
the case itself.
This Court has said repeatedly that it ought not pass
on the constitutionality of an act of Congress unless such
adjudication is unavoidable. This is true even though the
question is properly presented by the record. If two questions are raised, one of non-constitutional and the other
of constitutional nature, and a decision of the non-constitutional question would make unnecessary a decision
of the constitutional question, the former will be decided
8

Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 193; Light v.
United States, 220 U. S. 523, 538; Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin,

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
129

Opinion of the Court.

This same rule should guide the lower courts as well as this
one. We believe that the structure of the problems before
the Circuit Court of Appeals required the application of
the rule to this case.
At the outset that court was confronted with the merits
of the appeal, which involved simply the coverage by the
patent and license of the T-79 transfer cases. Later, however, it was confronted also with a problem of jurisdictional
nature. This involved the effect wrought by the Act and
Order on its power to proceed to an adjudication on the
merits. If for any reason, the Act and Order had no applicability in the case, the court should proceed to the
merits. If, however, they were controlling, Alma was
relegated to its statutory remedy against the United States,
and the court would be required to dismiss the appeal, and
to vacate Paragraph 5 of the judgment in the District
Court.
In the determination of this jurisdictional problem, we
are of the opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred. It assumed that this problem involved only the
question of the constitutionality of the Act and Order.
But the Act and Order, whether or not constitutional, do
not control the disposition of this case unless they were
intended to apply to it. The question of their applicability is a non-constitutional question, the decision of
which might have made unnecessary any consideration of
constitutionality.
Were the Act and Order intended to apply? Their
terms seem to make that depend upon whether the subjectmatter of the appeal-the T-79 transfer cases-were covered by the patent and license. The Act provides that it
is only "whenever an invention . . .shall be manufactured . . . for the United States, with license from the
323 U. S. 101, 105. See Brandeis, J., concurring in Ashwander v.
Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 347.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

owner thereof . . ." and the department head believes
the stipulated royalties to be unreasonable, that the latter
shall give "written notice of such fact to the licensor and
to the licensee." It is only after such notice that the department head may fix "fair and just" royalties, and only
"such licensee" who is forbidden to pay additional amounts
as royalties, and only "such licensor" who is relegated to
the Court of Claims.' Conversely, if the putative invention is manufactured without license, or if the putative
patentee is not actually the owner, these powers and
disabilities do not arise. ,Even Order No. W-3 does not
refer to T-79 transfer cases as such. It forbids the
payment of royalties only on transfer cases "under" this
license, or any license pursuant to this patent, "which
embody

. . .

the, ... alleged

inventions."

Again,

if

the T-79s are not "under" the Alna-Timken license, or if
they do not "embody" Alma's patented claim, then the
Order expressly leaves Alma's and Timken's rights and
remedies unaffected.
Consequently, coverage of the T-79s, as well as constitutionality ofthe Act and Order, was a crucial issue in
deciding the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
If they are covered, the Act and Order apply, and it was
then necessary to decide constitutionality in order to determine whether the court could proceed to a judgment on the
merits. If the T-79s are, not covered, the Act and Order
manifestly do not apply, and the court could proceed to a
judgment on the merits, whether the Act and Order are
constitutional or not. In that event, of course, no constitutional question would be decided.
The Circuit Court of Appeals may have thought that the
applicability of the Act and Order turn not on actual coverage, but on a claim of coverage, and hence that applicability was undisputed and only.constitutionality was perti" 35 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 89.

ALMA MOTOR CO. v. TIMKEN CO.
129

Opinion of the Court.

nent to jurisdiction in this case. Such construction is said
to have some support in cases like Smithers v. Smith, 204
U. S. 632, and Bell v. Hood, 327 U. S. 678, in which bona
fide claims of rights were held to satisfy jurisdictional
requirements as to the amount in controversy and as to
the existence of a certain federal question, regardless of
whether such claims would ultimately be established.
The answer to this argument is that the statutory language 10 which controlled the cited cases expressly refers to
the claim as the test of jurisdiction, whereas, as we have
shown, the instant Act refers to the objective event. Furthermore, the test in the Smithers and Bell cases, supra,is
a condition precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction.
Unless such exercise is made to turn on what the rilaintiff
rather than what the court says is at stake, the court's
jurisdictional ruling will often deny the plaintiff a forum
when a full hearing might later have shown a right to
relief. The test in this case, on the other hand, is a condition subsequent, in certain instances depriving the court
of jurisdiction, and the same danger is not present.
Timken contends that the jurisdiction of all suits with
respect to inventions manufactured for the United States
in wartime is transferred to the Court of Claims, and that
the coverage question is immaterial. It argues that where
the Royalty Adjustment Act does not accomplish this
transfer because the manufacture is not by a licensee, the
Act of June 25, 1910, as amended, 1 should apply, and that
10 "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction . . .where
the matter in controversy exceeds . . .the sum or value of $3,000, and

(a) arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States . .
28 U. S. C. § 41.
" Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 851, as amended by the Act of
July 1, 1918, 40 Stat. 705, 35 U. S. C. § 68, provides in part: "Whenever an invention described in and covered by a patent of the United
States shall hereafter be used or manufactured by or for the United
States witbout license of the owner thereof or lawful right to use

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

it has the. same effect. It is said, therefore, that the case
should have been dismissed whether there was coverage
or not, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals properly

refrained from deciding that question.
Assuming the premise is correct, we do not reach the
same conclusion. Dismissal can be ordered under the 1910
Act, if it applies, without deciding any constitutional questions, for that Act has already been before this Court and
been approved. 2 To order dismissal under the 1942 Act,

however, or under one of the two Acts alternatively, requires a determination of the constitutionality of the
latter. As we have already indicated, this is sufficient
reason for first deciding which Act impels the transfer.
It is true that § 2 of the Royalty Adjustment Act provides that, if the licensor sues in the Court of Claims, the
United States "may avail itself of any and all defenses,
general or special, that might be pleaded by a defendant
in an action for infringement as set forth in title sixty of
the ReVised Statutes, or otherwise." 1 We deem it clear
or manufacture the same, such owner's remedy shall be by suit
against the United States in the Court of Claims for tjie recovery
of his reasonable and entire compensation for such use and manufacture ... "

12Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290; Richmond Screw Anchor Co. v.
United States, 275 U. S. 331.
1
3Section 2 provides in full:
"Any licensor aggrieved by any order issued pursuant to section 1
hereof, fixing and specifying the maximum rates or amounts of royalties under a license issued by him, may institute suit against the
United States in the Court of Claims, or in the District Courts of the
United States insofar as such courts may have concurrent jurisdiction
.with the Court of Claims, to recover such sum, if any, as, when added
to the royalties fixed and specified in such order, shall constitute fair
and just compensation to the licensor for the manufacture, use, sale,
or other disposition of the licensed invention for the United States,
taking into account the conditions of wartime production. In any
such suit the United States may avail itself of any and all defenses,

ALMA MOTOR CO. ?. TIMKEN CO.
129

141

Opinion of the Court.

that such defenses would include questions of coverage
as well as validity of a patent. But we do not think that
§ 2 reflects a decision by Congress that all suits involving
licenses under the Act and presenting questions of coverage or validity should be tried in the Court of Claims. As
respects the problem with which we are now concerned,
§ 2 does no more than to make available such defenses in
the Court of Claims whenever the suits authorized by the
Act are brought there.
Both Alma and Timken maintain that the constitutional question could not be avoided by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, because the T-32 and T-43 transfer cases
were covered, if the T-79s were not, and were therefore
necessarily subject to the Order. Indeed, the District
Court decided that they were covered, and Timken did
not appeal.
This point carries its own refutation. Neither party
appealed from the adjudication as to the T-32 and T-43
transfer cases, No claim as to them was before the Circuit Court of Appeals. There is no claim now that a litigant may not appeal from part of a judgment, or that an
appeal from part brings up the whole.1 ' The Circuit
Court of Appeals was not properly concerned with their
coverage, or with the applicability to them of the Act or
Order.: Therefore, the part of its order affecting T-32s
and T-43s was unwarranted, and should not now be made
the basis for approving a constitutional decision which was
otherwise unnecessary.
general or special, that might be pleaded by a defendant in an action
for infringement as set forth in title sixty of the Revised Statutes, or
otherwise."
14Rule 73 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that
the "notice of appeal . . . shall designate the judgment or part thereof
appealed from . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Alma objects strenuously to the Government "mending
its hold" between the time it urged dismissal in an amicus
brief in the Circuit Court of Appeals and argued constitutionality there and here, and the time it filed here its
motion to vacate and remand. The Government certainly 9;1.3d and abetted the Circuit Court of Appeals in
its error. But Alma is not without fault in creating the
confusion. In its "Petition to Review" the Order, Alma
asked the Circuit Court of Appeals to hold the Order
unconstitutional. In its petition to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for rehearing, it argued that the court should not
have passed on constitutionality because Timken had not
charged any royalties to the United States on T-79s, and
the Act and Order were allegedly inapplicable. Before
this Court it has returned to its original position.
We agree that much time has been wasted by the earlier
failure of the parties to indicate, or the Circuit Court of
Appeals or this Court to see, the course which shouldhave
been followed. This, however, is no reason to continue
now on the wrong course. The principle of avoiding constitutional questions is one which was ,conceived out of
considerations of sound judicial administration. It is a
traditional policy of our courts."
The judgment is vacated and the case rpimanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

'o

Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 553 (1837).

