OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

329 U. S.

v. SEATRAIN LINES, INC.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.

No. 61.

Argued December 9, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.

Pursuant to Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate
Commerce Commission issued to a common carrier by water, whose
vessels had special facilities for carrying loaded railroad cars and
tank space for liquid cargoes in bulk, a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing it to carry "commodities generally" between certain ports subject "to such terms, conditions,
and limitations as are now, or may hereafter be, attached to the
exercise of such authority by the. Commission." Later the Commission, on its own motion and over the protest of the carrier,
reopened the proceedings and issued an order directing the cancellatioh of the original certificate and the issuance of a new one,
which deprived the carrier of its right to carry "commodities generally" and limited it to carrying liquid cargoes in bulk, empty
railroad cars, and property loaded in freight cars received from
and delivered to rail carriers. Held:
1. The Commission had no authority to cancel the original
certificate. Pp. 428-433.
2. It is apparent from the record in this case that the proceedings
were not reopened to correct a clerical mistake in the issuance of
the original certificate but to execute a subsequently adopted policy
of holding that a certificate to carry "commodities generally" did
not authorize water carriage of freight cars. Pp. 428-429.
3. The Commission has no express authority to revoke a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued to water carriers
under Part III of the Act. Pp. 429-431.
4. The order was not within the Commission's authority under
§ 309 (d) to fix "terms, conditions and limitations" for water
carrier certificate holders. Pp. 431-432.
5. Nor was it within the Commission's authority under § 315 (e)
to "suspend, modify, or set aside its orders," since the Act makes
a clear distinction between "orders" and "certificates." P. 432.
6. When a certificate of pubic convenience and necessity has
been finally granted to a water carrier under Part III of the Act,

UNITED STATES v. SEATRAIN LINES.
424
and the time
revocation in
by Congress.
64 F. Supp. 156,

425

Opinion of the Court.
fixed for rehearing has passed, it is not subject to
whole or in part, except as specifically authorized
Pp. 432-433.
affirmed.

Having issued a certificate of public convenience and
necessity to a water carrier under Part III of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the Interstate Commerce Commission
subsequently ordered its cancellation and the issuance of
a new certificate substantially curtailing the rights
granted. 260 I. C. C. 430. The District Court set aside
the Commission's order. 64 F. Supp. 156. Affirmed,
p. 4 33.
Edward 11. Reidy argued the cause for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Frederick Bernays Wiener,
Edward Dumbauld and Daniel W. Knowlton.
Wilbur La Roe, Jr. argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Parker McCollester and
Arthur L. Winn, Jr.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Seatrain is and long has been a common carrier of goods
by water. Its harbor facilities and vessels have been constructed to enable it to perform a distinctive type of water
carriage. Loaded railroad cars can be hoisted and transported in its vessels, thereby eliminating such things as
trouble, time and breakage, said to be incident to loading
and unloading goods from railroad cars. See United
States v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 323 U. S. 612. Seatrain

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

vessels also have tank space for carriage of liquid cargoes
in bulk.1
Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act, 54 Stat. 929, 49
U. S. C. § 901, et seq., subjected water carriers to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Section
309 (a) of that Act required them to obtain certificates of
public convenience and necessity from the Commission.
The same section contains a proviso commonly referred to
as the grandfather clause. It provides that any water carrier, with an exception not here material, which was in
bona fide operation as a common carrier by water on January 1, 1940, shall be entitled to a certificate to continue
operations over the route or routes which it had been serving previous to that date without determination by the
Commission of the question of public convenience and
necessity.
May 29, 1941, Seatrain filed two applications with the
Commission to obtain certificates for two different routes,
one of which it had operated since 1932, and another
which it had begun to operate in 1940 shortly after passage
of the water carrier provisions. Seatrain's application
described its operation on each route as that of a "common carrier by water of commodities generally." After
due notice had been given to all interested parties, Division 4 of the Commission conducted investigations, satisfied itself as to the right of Seatrain to be granted both
applications under the provisions of the Act, made appropriate findings, and concluded that Seatrain was entitled
to engage in transportation on both the routes as "a common carrier by water of commodities generally." A single
certificate to carry "commodities generally between the
ports of New York, N. Y., New Orleans, La., and Texas
City, Tex., by way of the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of
1

For a description of Seatrain equipment, see Investigation of

&atrain Lines, Inc., 195 I. C. C. 215, 218-222.

UNITED STATES v. SEATRAIN LINES.
424

427

Opinion of the Court.

Mexico" was accordingly issued to Seatrain. By its
terms it became effective August 10, 1942, subject "to such
terms, conditions, and limitations as are now, or may hereafter be, attached to the exercise of such authority by this
Commission."
A year and a half later, January 27, 1944, the Commission, on its own motion, ordered that the proceedings be
reopened for the purpose of determining whether the 1942
certificate should not be modified so as to deprive Seatrain
of the right to carry commodities generally. Seatrain
appeared and moved to vacate and rescind the Commission's order to reopen the proceedings on the ground that
the Commision was without statutory authority to make
the alteration proposed. Seatrain's motion was rejected.
At the subsequent hearing on the proposed modification,
Seatrain declined to offer evidence, resting its case entirely
on the Commission's lack of authority to reconsider and
alter the original certificate. After argument, the Commission entered an order canceling the former certificate
and directing that a different one be issued. 260 I. C. C.
430. The proposed new certificate in effect deprived Seatrain of the right to carry goods generally between the
ports it served, and limited it to operations only "as a commo4 carrier by the 'seatrain' type of vessels, in interstate or
foreign commeroe, in the transportation of liquid cargoes
in bulk; of empty railroad cars; and of property loaded
in freight cars received from and delivered to rail carriers and transported without transfer from the freight
cars between the ports of New York, N. Y., New Orleans,
La., and Texas City, Tex."
Seatrain then brought this action before a three-judge
District Court under 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 47, to set
aside the Commission's order. The District Court set
aside the order on the ground that the-Commission had
exceeded its statutory authority in reopening the pro-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ceeding and altering the certificate. The District Court
further held that even if the Commission would have had
power under different circumstances to alter a certificate,
it should not have done so in this case where, as the Court
found from evidence before it but which had not been
before the Commission, Seatrain had expended large sums
of money in reliance upon the complete validity of its
certificate. 64 F.'Supp. 156. We need not consider the
Commission's objection to the District Court's admission
of evidence not heard by the Commission since we agree
with the District Court that the Commission was without
authority to cancel this certificate.
In altering Seatrain's certificate, the Commission held
that a certificate authorizing the carriage of "commodities
generally" does not embrace the right to carry loaded or
unloaded railroad cars; that consequently the original
certificate granted Seatrain actually deprived it of any
future right to carry railroad cars--its chief business; that
issuance of the original certificate to carry commodities
generally was consequently an inadvertent error, patent on
the faqe of the record, which the Commission has the right
and power to change at any time the matter comes to its
attention. But Seatrain argues that, far from restoring
the right to which it was entitled under the original proceedings, the new order actually results in a drastic limitation on the nature of the equipment and service Seatrain
is privileged to employ in loading and carrying freight,
and could bar delivery or receipt of freight to or from any
consignees except railroads.
We need not determine the Commission's statutory
power to correct clerical mistakes, since we are persuaded
from Seatrain's applications for its certificates, from the
information supplied to the Commission indicating that
Seatrain had long transported goods of all kinds loaded in
freight cars to consignees other than railroads, from the
findings of the Commission, and from the course of

UNITED STATES v. SEATRAIN LINES.
424

429

Opinion of the Court.

the earlier decisions of the Commission regarding Seatrain, that the issuance of the original certificate was not
an "inadvertent" error which the Commission's subsequent action was intended to correct. For all these indicate that prior to and at the time of the issuance of the
Seatrain certificate it was the understanding of Seatrain
and the Commission that its transportation of "commodities generally" included carriage of freight cars and that
carriage of freight cars would not exclude carriage of commodities generally. Moreover, the Seatrain application
was not reopened for consideration by the Commission
until its decision in Foss Launch & Tug Co., 260 I. C. C.
103, decided December 18, 1943. There the Commission
pointedly ruled for the first time that a-certificate to carry
"commodities generally" did not authorize water carriage
of loaded or unloaded freight cars-so-called "car-ferry
service." Thus it seems apparent that the Seatrain proceedings were reopened not to correct a mere clerical
error, but to execute the new policy announced in the Foss
case. This conclusion is supported by the fact that in prior
proceedings involving Seatrain, the Comnission had rejected the contention that Seatrain's vessels could be
classed as "car ferries," and had concluded that they were
ocean-going water carriers.2
Since the proceedings apparently were not reopened to
correct a mere clerical error but were more likely an effort
to revoke or modify substantially Seatrain's original certificate under the new policy announced in the Foss case,
the question remains whether the Act authorizes such
alterations. The water carrier provisions are part of the
general pattern of the Interstate Commerce Act which
grants the Commission power to regulate railroads and
' See Investigation of Seatrain Lines, Inc., supra; Seatrain Lines,
Inc. v. Akron, C. & Y. R. Co., 226 I. C. C. 7; Hoboken Manufacturers'
R. Co. v, Abilene & Southern R. Co., 248 I. C. C. 109, but see Commissioner Patterson dissenting, id. at 120.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

motor carriers as well as water carriers.3 The Commission
is authorized to issue certificates to, all three types of carriers. But it is specifically empowered to revoke only
the certificates of motor carriers. Section 212 (a), Part II,
Interstate Commerce Act, 49 Stat. 555, 49 U. S. C.
§ 312 (a). In fact, when the water carrier provisions
were pending in Congress, the Commission's spokesman,
Commissioner Eastman, seems specifically to have requested the Congress to include no power to revoke a certificate. The Commissioner explained that while the
power to revoke motor carriers' certificates was essential
as an effective means of enforcement of the motor carrier
section, it was not necessary to use such sanctions in the
regulation of water carriers.' It is contended nonetheless
that the Commission has greater power to revoke water
carrier certificates, where Congress granted no specific
authority at all, than to cancel and revoke motor carrier
certificates, where specific but limited authority was
granted. But in ruling upon its power to revoke motor
carrier certificates, the Commission itself has held that
unless it can find a reason to revoke a motor carrier's certificate, which reason is specifically set out in §212 (a), it
Stat. 379 (as amended), 49 U. S. C. § 1 et 8eq. (railroads);
49 Stat. 543, 54 Stat. 919, 49 U. S. C. § 301 et seq. (motor carriers); 54
Stat. 929, 49 U. S. C. § 901 et seq. (water carriers).
4 Commissioner Eastman, Chairman of the Commission's Legislative Committee, reporting to the Senate Committee on Interstate
Commerce on S. 2009 on January 29, 1940, stated, "This bill leaves
section 212 (a) unchanged, and has no corresponding provision in the
new part III. While there is room for argument, we are inclined
to believe that provision for the revocation or suspension of, water
carrier certificates or permits is not essential, if adequate penalty
provisions are provided for violations of part III. Revocation or
suspension, in the case of motor carriers, is believed to be the most
effective means of enforcement, since there are so many such carriers,
and the operations of the great majority are so small, that enforcement through penal actions in courts presents many practical difficulties; but this should not be true of water carriers."
324

UNITED STATES v. SEATRAIN LINES.
424

431

Opinion of the Court.

cannot revoke such a certificate under its general statutory
power to alter orders previously made. Smith Bros.
Revocation of Certificate,33 M. C. C. 465.
It is argued, however, that this proceeding does not
effect a partial revocation of Seatrain's certificate, but is
merely an exercise of the Commission's statutory power
under § 309 (d) to fix "terms, conditions, and limitations"
for water carrier certificate holders. Whether the Commission could, under this authority, have imposed a restriction
in an original certificate as to the type of service a water
carrier could utilize to serve its shippers best is by no
means free from doubt. Yet the alleged authority to
alter a certificate after it has been finally granted so as to
limit the type of service is certainly no greater than the
Commission's authority to limit the type of service when
issuing the original certificate.
It is of some significance -that § 208, which prescribes the authority of the
Commission in granting certificates to motor carriers, authorizes the Commission to "specify the service to be rendered" by those carriers. But § 309, which empowers
the Commission to grant certificates to water carriers, does
not authorize the Commission to specify "the service to be
rendered." Furthermore, § 309 (d), relating to water carrier certificates, specifically provides "That no terms, conditions, or limitations shall restrict the right of the carrier
to add to its equipment, facilities, or service within the
scope of such certificate, as the development of the business and the demands of the public shall require . . ."
The language of this section would seem to preclude the
Commission from attaching terms and conditions to a
certificate which would deprive the public of the best type
of service which could be rendered between ports by a
water carrier. In view of this difference between the statutory authority of the Commission to prescribe the service
of water carriers and of motor carriers, our decisions relating to the Commission's power as to motor carriers in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

respect' are not controlling as to the Commission's power
to regulate the details of the service of water carriers. We
can find no authority for alteration of Seatrain's certificate from the Commission's power to fix "terms and
conditions."
Nor do we think that the Commission's ruling was justified by the language of § 315 (c) which authorizes it to
"suspend, modify, or set aside its orders under this part
upon such notice and in such manner as it shall deem
proper." That the word "order," as here used, was intended to describe something different from the word
"certificate" used in other places, is clearly shown by the
way both these words are used in the Act. Section 309
describes the certificate, the method of obtaining it, and its
scope and effect, but it nowhere refers to the word "order."
Section 315 of the Act, having specific reference to orders,
and which in subsection (c),,here relied on, authorizes suipension, alteration, or modification of orders, nowhere
mentions the word "certificate." ' It is clear that the
"orders" referred to in § 315 (c) are formal commands of
the Commission relating to its procedure and the rates,
fares, practices, and like things coming within its authority. But, as the Commission has said as to motor carrier
certificates, while the procedural "orders" antecedent to a
water carrier certificate can be modified from time to time,
the certificate marks the end of that proceeding.! The
certificate, when finally granted and the time fixed for rehearing it has passed, is not subject to revocation in whole
5Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. R. Co. v. United States, 322 U. S. 1;
Crescent Express Lines v. United States, 320 U. S. 401; Noble v.
United States, 319 U. S. 88. See also Smith Bros. Revocation of Certificate, 33 M. C. C. 465; Quaker City Bus Co., 38 M. C. C. 603.
6 And §§ 316 and 317 of the Act pointedly treat an order as one
thing and a oertificate as another.
7 See Smith Bros. Revocation of Certificate,supra, Quaker City Bus
Co., supra.

STEELE v. GENERAL MILLS.
424

Syllabus.

or in part except as specifically authorized by Congress.

Consequently, the Commission was without authority to

revoke Seatrain's certificate.

That certificate, properly

interpreted, authorized it to carry commodities generally,
including freight cars, on the routes for which the certifi-

cate originally issued.

The judgment of the District

Court is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.

STE ELE v. GENERAL MILLS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 79.

Argued December 18, 1946.-Decided January 6, 1947.

A motor carrier and a shipper entered into a written contract under
which the carrier was to transport goods for the shipper by truck
entirely within the State of Texas. On the basis of that contract,
the carrier obtained from the Texas Railroad Commission a permit
to operate as a contract carrier pursuant to rules promulgated by the
Commission .under Texas R. S., Art. 911 (b), §§ 1-22 (b) granting
regulatory power over transportation. The rules required contract
carriers to charge not less than the rate prescribed for common
motor carriers. Later, pursuant to a prearrangement and without
notice to the Commission, the parties entered into a supplemental
agreement under which the shipper actually paid the carrier lower
rates. About 312 years later, the carrier sued the shipper in a
Federal District Court to recover the difference between the rate
paid and the full rate fixed by the Commission. Held:
1. This Court cannot say that the District Court sitting in Texas
erred in holding that the cause of action was not barred by Art.
5526, Tex. R. S., which applies only to actions for debts not "evidenced by a contract in writing." P. 438.
2. Nor can this Court say that the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in interpreting the Texas law to render
void and unenforceable the supplemental agreement designed to
circumvent payment of the rates fixed by the Commission. P. 438.

