EAGLES v. HOROWITZ.
304

Syllabus.

in the month when his selective service questionnaire was
returned, and the fact that the seminary in question was
apparently not preparing men exclusively for the rabbinate make questionable his claim that he was preparing in
good faith for the rabbinate. A registrant might seek a
theological school as a refuge for the duration of the war.
Congress did not create the exemption in ยง 5 (d) for him.
There was some evidence that this was Samuels' plan; and
that evidence, coupled with his demeanor and attitude,
might have seemed more persuasive to the boards than it
does in the cold record. Our inquiry is ended when we are
unable to say that the board flouted the command of Congress in denying Samuels the exemption.
Reversed.
EAGLES, POST COMMANDING OFFICER, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. HOROWITZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued November 21, 1946.-Decided December 23, 1946.

This is a companion case to Eagles v. U. S. ex rel. Samuels, ante, p. 304,
in which most of the questions raised here were ruled upon. The
principal differences in the facts are that the advisory panel was composed entirely of laymen, its report was marked "confidential," and
respondent was enlarged upon a recognizance. Held:
1. The case is not moot, for the reasons stated in the Samuels
case. P. 318.
2. The fact that the panel was composed entirely of laymen does
not require a different result from that reached in the Samuels
case. Pp. 322-323.
3. The fact that its report was marked "confidential" contrary
to the applicable regulations does not require a different result,
because the local board was not required to keep the report confidential and there is no showing that it did. P. 323.
151 F. 2d 801, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Respondent, having been inducted into the Army, was
released on a writ of habeas corpus after the Circuit Court
of Appeals had reversed, 151 F. 2d 801, a decision by the
District Court adverse to him. This Court granted
certiorari. 328 U. S. 830. Reversed, p. 323.
Irving S. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath and
Robert S. Erdahl.
Meyer Kreeger argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to Eagles v. Samuels, No. 59,
decided this day, ante p. 304. Certiorari also brings it here
from the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. That court
followed the same procedure here as it did in Samuels'
case; it reversed the District Court which had dismissed
the writ of habeas corpus brought on behalf of Horowitz,
and remanded the cause to the District Court with directions to discharge him from military custody. 151 F. 2d
801.
It appears that after the remand Horowitz was enlarged
upon a recognizance as permitted under our rules. Rule
45. The suggestion that the case is therefore moot is
without merit for the reasons stated in Samuels' case.
Horowitz registered pursuant to the Selective Training
and Service Act of 1940, as amended, early in 1941 and
filed a questionnaire stating he was a college student preparing for a career as a psychiatric social worker. At the
time, he asked for a deferment in induction until February,
1943, saying that "if you take me now, you practically
negate my possibilities to attain the position I seek in life,
namely, a psychiatric social worker." Shortly after he
was physically examined and found cualified for military

EAGLES v. HOROWITZ.
Opinion of the Court.

317

service, he advised the local board that he had been enrolled in the Rabbinical Seminary of America, a recognized theological school. On July 1, 1941, he was classified I-A. The board of appeal likewise gave him that
classification in August, 1941.
Meanwhile, he claimed exemption under ยง 5 (d) of the
Act. The basis of his claim was the representation that he
was a student in a recognized theological school for rabbis
and was preparing for the rabbinate. In an affidavit he
stated that he had not disclosed his intention to become
a rabbi because he had no "concrete facts" to present, only
"hopes." In November, 1941, the local board classified
him IV-D, which classification he retained until May,
1944. In 1942 he filed an occupational questionnaire with
the local board, stating that*he was taking a course in
rabbinical studies at the seminary and also a bachelor
of social science course at another institution which he
hoped to complete in 1944. He listed himself as a social
worker.
In April, 1944, the city director of Selective Service
reviewed the file and requested Horowitz to appear before
an advisory theological panel. He appeared before a panel
and there was a hearing. The panel stated that all students in this seminary were not necessarily preparing for
the ministry and that each individual case should be separately appraised.' It concluded that his attendance at
the seminary had been motivated by a desire to secure
a basis for exemption under the Act. This was based
on his declared intention early in 1941 to be a social
'The approach of the panel to the question is shown as follows in
its statement:
"Orthodox tradition has always encouraged advanced study df
talmudic literature, both privately and at academies instituted
for that purpose, irrespective of the specific occupational objectives of those engaged in such study, and all courses offered by
these academies are open to qualified students without regard

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

worker, inconsistencies in his explanation of his failure
to refer to the rabbinate at that time, his indifferent and
unsystematic manner in preparing for that professed objective, and an appraisal of his reliability and candor. The
transcript of proceedings before the panel and later the
report were transmitted to the local board by the office
of the city director of Selective Service with a request to
the board to reopen and reconsider his classification. The
report made by the panel was not signed. Moreover, the
report was headed "Confidential Statement for the Record." The local board was advised by the city director's
office that, while it should give careful consideration to the
recommendation of the panel, determination of the classification must be made by the board itself or by an appeal
agency.
Horowitz was immediately reclassified as I-A. He
asked for a hearing which was granted. It appears that
the panel which interviewed him and rendered the report
to the individual student's specific intention to prepare for a
career of service in the rabbinate.
"Thus, a student ultimately intending to enter business or a
profession, or some non-rabbinic activity in the field of religion,
may be enrolled in the same courses attended by other students
who are specifically concerned with preparation for the rabbinate.
It is, therefore, essential for purposes of Selective Service classification to determine in each individual case the purpose which the
registrant has in mind in pursuing his course of study.
"Moreover, the fact that the religious tradition in question does
not attempt to distinguish between the serious student of talmudic
literature and the student preparing for a professional career in
the rabbinate, tends to make it extremely difficult for school officials, ministers, and others identified with that tradition, to have
and express an objective judgment in such matters.
"To the extent that the distinction is understood, there is a
tendency to accept at face value assertions made by the registrant and members of his family and to resolve any doubt in his
favor, where it is at least apparent that he is a serious and pious
talmudic student."

EAGLES v. HOROWITZ.
317

Opinion of the Court.

was comnposed of three prominent Jewish laymen but no
rabbi. Whether that was the cause does not appear, but
the board, as a result of the hearing, referred the file to a
rabbi for another advisory recommendation. The rabbi
recommended that Horowitz be classified IV-D. The
local board gave him that classification in June, 1944.
In August, 1944, the local board held another hearing.
Horowitz was present and was examined. The board
concluded that he should be in I-A and so classified him,
stating as its reason that he became a student in the rabbinical school after he had registered under the Act. He
requested and was granted another hearing, at which he
submitted additional evidence. The local board refused
to change the classification. On appeal the board of
appeal classified him as I-A.
On two subsequent occasions Horowitz asked that his
classification be reopened and submitted additional evidence. The board was unpersuaded and refused to reopen the classification. The office of the city director advised the boards that the panel which interviewed Horowitz was composed solely of laymen and that, if by
virtue of that fact the board of appeal desired to reconsider the case, to inform the office. Both the local board
and the board of appeal replied that there was no occasion
for reopening the classification. The board of appeal
stated that it had "once again unanimously agreed that
the registrant's status does not warrant a IV-D classification." Early in 1945 Horowitz was inducted into the
Army.
Horowitz relies upon affidavits and statements from
various people concerning the bona fides of his professed
desire to become a rabbi, on a statement made when he
graduated from the public schools in 1932 that that was
his ambition in life, on the fact that he stated in 1936
that his first vocational choice was the rabbinate, and on

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

all of his subsequent activities which, he asserted, fitted
into that pattern. On the other hand, it does appear that
in 1937 his first vocational choice was teaching, his second the rabbinate. Furthermore, as already noted, his
professed objective stated to the local board early in 1941
was social work. And he in fact entered the seminary
shortly after he had passed his physical examination and
qualified for military service. These circumstances alone
make his claim to exemption colorable. Certainly we
cannot say that the action of the board of appeal in finally
classifying him as I-A was without any support in the
evidence.
The question remains whether there was anything in
the administrative procedure which vitiated Horowitz'
classification. What we have said about the use of a theological panel and the range of its inquiry in Eagles v. Samuels, supra, need not be repeated here. There is nothing
in the present case which makes for a different result. We
can no more conclude here, than in Samuels' case, that the
board abdicated its function. It first followed the panel's
recommendation. But its mind was not closed, as evi-'
denced by the fact that it later sought the advice of a rabbi
and followed his recommendation. And when it returned
to its earlier position, it proceeded on the ground that the
basic defect in Horowitz' case was the shift in his position
in 1941 after he had registered. The record shows indecision by the board but no subservience to the panel. As
respects the fact that the panel's report was unsigned, only
a word need be added. Horowitz, like Samuels, appeared
in person before the panel and saw its members face to
face. At no time does it appear that he sought the identity
of the members and was refused the information.
The essential procedural differences between this case
and Samuels' are two-it appears that this panel was
composed entirely of laymen; and its report was not only

EAGLES v. HOROWITZ.
317

323

Opinion of the Court.

unsigned but marked confidential for the file. The first
objection carries little weight. These laymen were prominent citizens of the Jewish faith. There is no showing
that they were of a sect hostile to Horowitz. There is
nothing to impeach their integrity or to suggest that they
were not qualified to serve in the expert role assigned to
them.
The fact that their report was marked confidential is
given great emphasis. It is argued that although the use
of a theological panel may be authorized, there is no warrant for clothing its action in such secrecy.
The regulations, indeed, prescribe that no information
in a registrant's file shall be confidential as to him or any
one having written authority from him.

Section 605.32

(a), 8 Fed. Reg. 2641, 9 Fed. Reg. 9190. But the difficulty
here is that it is not shown that the panel's report was in
fact treated as confidential by the local board. It is not
shown that Horowitz sought and was denied access to the
report. Nor is it shown that when Horowitz examined the
file the report was not made available to him. If those
were the facts, we do not doubt that Horowitz' counsel
would have established them at the habeas corpushearing.
We find no command to the local board to keep the report
confidential. We cannot presume that the board violated
the regulations. Yet that is in effect what we are asked to
hold. Horowitz, like Samuels, points to possibilities of
abuse in the use of the panel. But like Samuels he fails
to establish prejudice in his case. The judgment below
must therefore be
Rever8ed.

