CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THlE UITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.

HALLIBURTON OIL WELL CEMENTING CO. v.
WALKER ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS DEPTHOGRAPH CO.
ON REHEARING.

No. 24.

Reargued October 23, 24,1946.-Decided November 18, 1946.

1. Walker Patent No. 2,156,519 for an improvement over a past patent
designed to measure the distance from the top of an oil well to the
fluid surface of the oil, held invalid for failure of the claims to make
the "full, clear, concise, and exact" description of the alleged
invention required by R. S. § 4888, 35 U. S. C. § 33. Pp. 11-14.
2. A claim which describes'the most crucial element in a "new" combination in terms of what it will do rather than in terms of its own
physical characteristics or its arrangement in the new combination
is invalid as a violation of R. S. § 4888. Holland Furniture Co. v.
Perkins Glue Co., 277 U. S. 245; General Electric Co. v. Wabash
Appliance Corp., 304 U.S. 364. Pp.8,9.
3. 'As used in R. S. § 4888, the word "machine" includes a combination
of old elements. P. 9.
4. The requirement of R. S. § 48&9 for a "full, clear, concise, and
exact" description in claims applies to a combination of old devices.
Pp. 9-11.
5. Under. R. S. § 4888, a patentee cannot obtain greater coverage by
failing accurately to describe his invention than by describing it as
the statute commands. P. 13.
146 F. 2d 817, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Respondent sued petitioner for infringement of Walker
Patent No. 2,156,519. The District Court held the claims
in issue valid and infringed by petitioner. The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, 146 F.
2d 817, and denied a petition for rehearing. 149 F. 2d
896. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 705. The
case was affirmed by an evenly divided Court. 326 U. S.
696. A petition for rehearing was granted and the case
was restored to the docket for reargument before a full
bench. 327 U. S. 812. Reversed, p. 14.
Earl Babcock reargued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner. With him on the brief was Harry C. Robb.
Harold W. Mattingly reargued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Cranford P. Walker, owner of Patent No. 2,156,519, and
the other respondents, licensees under the patent, brought
this suit in a Federal District Court alleging that peti-'
tioner, Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Company, had
infringed certain of the claims of the Walker patent. The
District Court held the claims in issue valid and infringed
by Halliburton. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed,
146 F. 2d 817, and denied Halliburton's petition for rehearing. 149 F. 2d 896. Petitioner's application to this
Court for certiorari urged, among other grounds, that the
claims held valid failed to make the "full, clear, concise,
and exact" description of the alleged invention required
by Rev. Stat. 4888, 35 U. S. C. § 33,' as that statute was
1"33.

APPLICATION FOR PATENT; DESCRIPTION; SPECIFICATION AND.

CLAi.-Before any inventor or discoverer shall receive a' patent
for his invention or discovery he shall make application therefor,
in writing, to the 'Commissioner of Patents, and shall file in the

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

interpreted by us in General Electric Co. v. Wabash Appliance Corp., 304 U. S. 364.' This statutory requirement
of distinctness and certainty in claims is important in patent law. We granted certiorari to consider whether it was
correctly applied in this case. 326 U. S. 705.2
The patent in suit was sustained as embodying an
improvement over a past patent of Lehr and Wyatt (No.
2,047,974) upon an apparatus designed to facilitate the

pumping of oil out of wells which do not have sufficient
natural pressures to force the oil to gush. An outline of
the background and setting of these patents is helpful
to an understanding of the problem presented.
In order to operate a pump in an oil well most efficiently,
cheaply, and with the least waste, the pump must be
placed in an appropriate relationship to the fluid surface
of the oil. Properly to place the pump in this relationship
requires knowledge of the distance from the well top to
the fluid surface. At least by the latter 1920's problems
Patent Office a written description of the same, and of the manner
and process of making, constructing, compounding, and using it, in
such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable any person

skilled in the art or science to which it appertains, or with which
it is most nearly connected, to make, construct, compound, and use
the same; and in case of a machine, he shall explain the principle
thereof, and the best mode in which he has contemplated applying
that principle, so as to distinguish it from other inventions; and he
shall particularly point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention or
discovery. ..."
2 Other alleged errors were urged in the application for certiorari
and have been argued here, but since we find the question of definiteness of the claim decisive of the controversy, we shall not'further
advert to the other contentions.
sThis case was previously. affirmed by a divided court, 326 U. S. 696,
and upon petition for rehearing was restored to the docket for reargument. 327 U. S. 812.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

of waste and expense in connection with non-gusher oil
wells pressed upon the industry. See Railroad Comm'n
of Texas v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S. 573; Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U. S. 315. It became apparent that
inefficient pumping, one cause of waste, was in some measure attributable to lack of accurate knowledge of distance
from well top to fluid surface. Ability to measure this
distance in each separate non-gusher oil well became an
obvious next step in the solution of this minor aspect of the
problem of waste.
The surface and internal machinery and the corkscrew
conformation of some oil wells make it impractical to
measure depth by the familiar method of lowering a rope
or cable. In casting about for an alternative method
it was quite natural to hit upon the possibility of utilizing a sound-echo-time method. Unknown distances
had frequently been ascertained by this method. Given
the time elapsing between the injection of a sound into
an oil well and the return of its echo from the fluid' surface,
and assuming the velocity of the sound to be about 1100
feet per second, as it is in the open air, it would be easy
to find the distance. Not only had this sound-echo-time
method been long known and generally used to find unknown distances, but in 1898 Batcheller, in Patent No.
602,422, had described an apparatus to find a distance in
a tubular space. Obviously an oil well is such a space.
He described a device whereby the noise from a gun might
be injected into a tube; the returning echoes from obstructions agitated a diaphragm, which in turn moved a stylus.
The stylus recorded on a piece of paper a graph or diagram showing the variant movements of the diaphragm
caused by its response to all the different echo waves.
In the late 1920's the oil industry began to experiment in
the use of this same sound-echo-time method for measur-

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

ing the distance to the fluid surface in deep oil wells. A
product of this experimentation was the Lehr and Wyatt
patent, upon which the present patent claims to be an
improvement. It proposed to measure the distance by
measuring the time of travel of the echo of an "impulse
wave" generated by a "sudden change in pressure." The
apparatus described included a gas cylinder with a quick
operating valve by means of which a short blast of gas
could be injected into a well. It was stated in the patent
that the time elapsing between the release of the gas and
the return of the echo of the waves produced by it could be
observed in any desired manner. But the patentee's
application and drawings noted that the wave impulses
could be recorded by use of a microphone which might
include an amplifier and an appropriate device to record
a picture of the wave impulses.
This Lehr and Wyatt patent, it is therefore apparent,
simply provided an apparatus composed of old and wellknown devices to measure the time required for pressure waves to move to and back from the fluid "surface
of an oil well. But the assumption that sound and pressure waves would travel in oil wells at open-air velocity
of 1100 feet per second proved to be erroneous. For
this reason the time-Velocity computation of Lehr and
Wyatt for measuring the distance to the fluid surface
produced inacci rate ,esults.
After conferences with Lehr. Walker undertook to
search for a method which wou1d more accurately indicate
the sound and pressure wave, velocity in each well.
Walker was familiar with the structure of oil wells. The
oil flow pipe in a well, known as a tubing string, is jointed
and where these joints occur there are collars or shoulders.
There are also one or more relatively prominent projections on the oil flow pipe known as tubing catchers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

In wells where the distance to the tubing catcher is known,
Walker observed that the distance to the fluid surface
could be measured by a simple time-distance proportion
formula." For those wells in which the distance to the
tubing catcher was unknown, Walker also suggested another idea. The sections of tubing pipe used in a given
oil well are generally of equal length. Therefore the
shoulders in a given well ordinarily are at equal intervals
from each other. But the section length and therefore
the interval may vary from well to well. Walker concluded that he could measure the unknown distance to the
tubing catcher if he could observe and record the shoulder
echo waves. Thus multiplication of the number of shoulders observed by the known length of a pipe section would
produce the distance to the tubing catcher. With this
distance, he could solve the distance to the fluid surface
by the same proportion formula used when the distance
to the tubing catcher was a matter of record. The Lehr
and Wyatt instrument could record all these echo waves.
But the potential usefulness of the echoes from the shoulders and the tubing catcher which their machine recorded
had not occurred to Lehr and Wyatt and consequently they
had made no effort better to observe and record them.
Walker's contribution which he claimsto be invention was
in effect to add to Lehr and Wyatt's apparatus a wellknown device which would make the regularly appearing
' The known distance from well top to the tubing catcher is to the
unknown distance from well top to the fluid surface as the time an
echo requires to travel from the tubing catcher is to the time required
for an echo to travel from the fluid surface.
Walker's patent emphasizes that his invention solves the velocity
of sound waves in wells of various pressures in which sound did not
"travel at open-air or a uniform speed. Mathematically, of course,
-his determination of the distance by proportions determines the distance to the fluid surface directlk without necessarily considering
velocity in feet per second as a factor.

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

shoulder echo waves more prominent on the graph and
easier to count.
The device added was a mechanical acoustical resonator.
This was a short pipe which would receive wave impulses
at the mouth of the well. Walker's testimony was, and
his specifications state, that by making the length of this
tubal resonator one-third the length of the tubing joints,
the resonator would serve as a tuner, adjusted to the frequency of the shoulder echo waves. It would simultaneously amplify these echo waves and eliminate unwanted
echoes from other obstructions thus producing a clearer
picture of the shoulder echo waves. His specificatiodiS
show, attached to the tubal" resonator, a coupler, the
manipulation of which would:adjust the length of the tube
to one-third of the interval between shoulders in a particular well. His specifications and drawings also show
the physical structure of a complete apparatus, designed to
inject pressure impulses into a; well, and to receive, note,
record and time the impulse waves.
The District Court held the claims here in suit valid
upon its finding that Walker's "apparatus differs from and
is an improvement over the prior art in the incorporation
in such apparatus of a tuned acoustical means which performs the function of a sound filter

. . ."

The Circuit

Court of Appeals affirmed this. holding, stating that the
trial court had found "that the only part of this patent
constituting invention over the prior art is the 'tuned
acoustical means which performs the funztions of a sound
filter.'"
For our purpose in passing upon the sufficiency of the
claims against prohibited indefiniteness we can accept
without ratifying the findings of the lower court that the
addition of "a tuned acoustical means" performing the
"function of a sound filter" brought about a new patentable combination, even though it advanced only a narrow

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

step beyond Lehr andWyatt's old combination.' We
must, however, determine whether, as petitioner charges,
the claims here held valid run afoul of Rev. Stat. 4888
because they do not describe the invention but use
"conveniently functional language at the exact point of
novelty." General Electric Co. v. Wabash Appliance
Corp., supra, at 371.
Walker, in some of his claims, e. g., claims 2 and 3, does
describe the tuned acoustical pipe as an integral part of
his invention, showing its structure, its working arrangement in the alleged new combination, and the manner of
its connection with the other parts. But no one of the
claims on which this judgment rests has even suggested
the physical structure of the acoustical resonator. 6 No one
of these claims describes the physical relation of the
Walker addition to the old Lehr and Wyatt machine: No
one of these claims describes the manner in which the
Walker ad ion will operate together with the old Lehr
and Wyat nachine so as to make the "new" unitary apparatus perform its designed function. Thus the claims
failed adequately to depict the structure, mode, and op~eration of the parts in combination.
A claim typical of all of those held valid only describes
the resonator and its relation with the rest of the apparatus as "means associated with said pressure responsive
device for tuning said receiving means to the frequency of
echoes from the tubing collars of said tubing sections to
clearly distinguish the echoes from said couplings from
5 See

Hailes v. Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353; Knapp v. Morss, 150
U. S. 221, 227-28; Textile Machine Works v. Louis Hirsch Textile Machines, Inc., 302 U. S. 490; Lincoln Engineering Co. v. Stewart-Warner
Corp., 303 U. S. 545,549-50.
. 6Halliburton does not challenge the adequacy of the description
of any other features of the "new combination." The elements of
Walker's apparatus other than tl filter are so nearly identical to
what Lehr and Wyatt patented that we can speak of these other
elements as the "Lehr and Wyatt machine."

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

each other."' The language of the claim thus describes
this most crucial element in the "new" combination in
terms of what it will do rather than in terms of its own
physical characteristics or its arrangement in the new combination apparatus. We have held that a claim with
such a -description of a product is invalid as a violation of
Rev. Stat. 4888. Holland Furniture Co. v. Perkins Glue
Co., 277 U. S. 245, 256-57; General Electric Co. v. Wabash
Appliance Corp., supra. We understand that the Circuit
,Court of Appeals held that the same rigid standards of
description required for product claims is not required for
a combination patent embodying old elements only. We
have a different view.
Rev. Stat. 4888 pointedly provides that "in case of a
-machine,"he [the patentee] shall, explain the principle
thereof, and the best mode in which he has contemplated
applying that principle,, so as to distinguish it from other
inventions; and he shall particularly point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement, or combination which
he claims as his invention or discovery." It has long
been held that the word "machine" includes a combination.
Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252, 267. We are not persuaded that the public and those affected by patents
Both parties have used Claim 1 as a typical example for purposes
of argument throughout the litigation. Other claims need not be set
out. Claim 1 is as follows:
"In an apparatus for determining the location of an obstruction
in a well-having therein a string of assembled tubing sections interconnected with each other by coupling collars, means communicating
with said well for creating a pressure impulse in said well, echo receiving means including a pressure responsive device exposed to said well
for receiving pressure impulses from the well and for measuring the
lapse of time between the creation of the impulse and the arrival at
said receiving means of the echo from said obstruction, and means
associated with, said pressure responsive device for tunipg said receiving means to the frequency of echoes from the tubing collars of said
tubing sections to clearly distinguish the echoes from said couplings
from each other."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

should lose the protection of this statute merely because
the patented device is a combination of old elements.
Patents on machines which join old and well-known
devices with the declared object of achieving new results,
or patents which add an old element to improve a preexisting combination, easily lend themselves to abuse.
And to prevent extension of a patent's scope beyond what
was actually invented, courts have viewed claims to combinations and improvements or additions to them with very
close scrutiny. Cf. Lincoln Engineering Co. v. StewartWarner Corp., 303 U. S. 545, 549-51. For the same reason, courts have qualified the scope of what is meant by
the equivalent of an ingredient of a combination of old
elements. Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1, 28, 29; Fuller v.,
Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288, 297, 298. It is quite consistent with
this strict interpretation of patents for machines which
combine old elements to require clear description in combination claims. This view, clearly expressed in Gill v.
Wells, supra, is that
"Where the ingredients are all old the invention . . . consists entirely in the combination, and
the requirement of the Patent Act that the invention
shall be fully and exactly described applies with as
much force to such an invention as to any other class,
because if not fulfilled all three of the great ends
intended to be accomplished by that requirement
would be defeated. . . . (1.) That the government
may know what they have granted and what will
become public property when the term of the monopoly expires. (2.) That licensed persons desiring to
practice the invention may know, during the term,
how to make, construct, and use the invention.
(3.) That other inventors may know what part of the
field of invention is unoceupied.
"Purposes such as these are of great importance in
every case, but the fulfilment of them is never more

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary than when such inquiries arise in respect
to a patent for a machine which consists of a combination of old ingredients. Patents of that kind are
much more numerous than any other, and consequently it is of the greatest importance that the
description of the combination, which is the invention, should be full, clear, concise, and exact." Gill v.
Wells, supra, at 25-26.
These principles were again emphasized in Merrill v.
Yeomans, 94 U. S. 568, 570, where it was said that "...
in
cases where the invention is a new combination of old
devices, he [the patentee] is bound to describe with particularity all these old devices, and then the new mode
of combining them, for which he desires a patent." This
view has most recently been reiterated in General Electric
Co. v. Wabash Appliance Corp., supra, at 368, 369. Cogent reasons would have. to be presented to persuade us to
depart from this established doctrine. The facts of the
case before us, far from undermining our confidence in
these earlier pronouncements, reinforce the conclusion that
the statutory requirement for a clear description of claims
applies to a combination of old devices.
This patent and the infringement proceedings brought
under it illustrate the hazards of carving out an exception
to the sweeping demand Congress made in Rev. Stat. 4888.
Neither in the specification, the drawing, nor in the claims
here under consideration, was there any indication that
the patentee contemplated any specific structural alternative for the acoustical resonator or for the resonator's
relationship to the other parts of the machine. Petitioner
was working in a field crowded almost, if not completely,
to thepoint of exhaustion. In 1920, Tucker, in Patent
No.1,351,356, had shown a tuned acoustical resonator in
a sound detecting device which measured distances. Lehr
and Wyatt had provided for amplification of their waves.
Sufficient amplification and exaggeration of all the differ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ent waves which Lehr and Wyatt recorded on their
machine would have made it easy to distinguish the tubing
catcher and regular shoulder waves from all others. For,
even without this amplification, the echo waves from tubing collars could by proper magnification have been
recorded and accurately counted, had Lehr and Wyatt
recognized their importance in computing the velocity.
Cf. General Electric Co. v. Jewel Incandescent Lamp Co.,
326 U. S. 242.
Under these circumstances the broadness, ambiguity,
and overhanging threat of the functional claim of Walker
become apparent. What he claimed in the court below
and what he claims here is that his patent bars anyone
from using in an oil well any device heretofore or hereafter
invented which combined with the Lehr and Wyatt
machine performs the function of clearly and distinctly.
catching and recording echoes from tubing joints with
regularity. Just how many different devices there are
of various kinds and characters which would serve to
emphasize these echoes, we do not know. The Halliburton
device, alleged to infringe, employs an electric filter for
this purpose. In this age of technological development
there may be many other devices beyond our present
information or indeed our, imagination which will perform
that function and yet fit these claims. And unless frightened from the course of experimentation by broad functional claims like these, inventive genius may evolve many
more devices to accomplish the same-purpose. See United
Carbon Co. v. Binney & Smith Co., 317 U. S. 228, 236;
Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531, 568; O'Reilly v. Morse, 15
How. 62, 112-13. Yet if Walker's blanket claims be valid,
no device to clarify echo waves, now known or hereafter
invented, whether the device be an actual equivalent of
Walker's ingredient or not, could be used in a combination
such as this; during the life of Walker's patent.

HALLIBURTON CO. v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Had Walker accurately described the machine he claims
to have invented, he would have had no such broad rights
to bar the use of all devices now or hereafter known which
could accent waves. For had he accurately described the
resonator together with the Lehr and Wyatt apparatus,
and sued for infringement, charging the use of something else used in combination to accent the waves, the
alleged infringer could have prevailed if the substituted
device (1) performed a substantially different function;
(2) was not known at the date. of Walker's patent as a
proper substitute for the resonator; or (3) had been actually invented after the date of the patent. Fuller v.
Yentzer, supra, at 296-97; Gill v. Wells, supra, at 29.
Certainly, if we are to be consistent with Rev. Stat. 4888,
a patentee cannot obtain greater coverage by failing to
describe his invention than by describing it as the statute
commands.
It is urged that our conclusion is in conflict with the
decision of Continental Paper Bag Co. v. Eastern Paper
Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405. In that case, however, the claims
structurally described the physical and operating relationship of all the crucial parts of the novel combination.8
8The typical claim there in suit was as follows:
"2. In a paper bag machine, the combination of the rotating cylinder provided with one or more pairs of side folding fingers adapted
.to be •moved toward or from each other, a forming plate also provided
with side forming fingers adapted to be moved toward or from each
other, means for operating said fingers at definite times during the
formative action upon the bag tube, operating means for the forming
plate adapted to cause the said plate to oscillate about its rear edge
upon the surface of the cylinder during the rotary movement of said
cylinder for the purpose of opening and forming the bottom of the
bag tube, a finger moving with the forming plate for receiving the
upper sheet of the tube and lifting it during the formative action,
power devices for returning the forming plate to its original position
to receive a new bag tube, and means to move the bag tube with the
cylinder." ContinentalPaper Bag Co. v. EasternPaperBag Co., 210
U. S. 405, 417, n. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

The Court there decided only that there had been an
infringement of this. adequately described invention.
That case is not authority for sustaining the claims be.fore us which fail adequately to describe the alleged
invention.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

concurs with the Court's

opinion in so ,far as it finds this claim lacking in the definiteness required by Rev. Stat. 4888, 35 U. S. C. § 33, but
reserves judgment as to considerations that may be peculiar to combination patents in satisfying that requirement.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

dissents.

CLEVELAND v. UNITED STATES.
NO.

12.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT."

Argued. October 10, 1945. Reargued October 17, 1946.-Decided
Noyember 18, 1946.

1. It is a violation of the Mann Act, 36 Stat. 825, 18 U. S. "C.§ 398,
for.a man to transport a woman across state lines for the purpose
of making her his plural wife or cohabiting with her as such-notwithstanding the fact that. the practice is founded on his religious
belief. Pp. 16120."
2. While' the Act was aimed primarily at the use of interstate com.merce for the conduct of commercialized prostitution, it is not
limited to that and a profit motive is not a sine qua non to its
.application.. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470. Pp.
.17, 18.
*Together with No. 13, Cleveland v. United States; No. 14, Cleve:land v. United States; No. 15, Darger v. Uzzited States; No. 16, Jessop
v. United States; No. 17, Dockstaderv. United States; No. 18, Stubbs
v. Umted States; and No. 19, Petty v. United States, on certiorari to
the same" court..

