OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
A. J. TOWER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued November 21, 1946.-Decided December 23, 1946.

A consent election of a collective bargaining agent under the National
Labor Relations Act was held pursuant to an agreement between
the employer and the union providing that the regional director
of the National Labor Relations Board should supervise the election
and that his determination on any question of eligibility of voters
should be final. The employer provided a list of eligible employees
and had observers at the polls with the right to challenge the eligibility of voters. After the union had been elected by a close vote
and the results had' been announced, the employer sought to challenge the eligibility of a voter included in the list it had furnished and
whose eligibility was unchallenged at the polls. This, together with
a vote challenged by the union and not counted, might have changed
the result. The regional director found that the employer had
waived its right to challenge the vote or to o 6 ject to the election
on this ground and that the union had received a majority of the
valid votes cast. The employer refused to bargain with the union
on the ground that it had not been validly elected. The Board
sustained the regional director's finding as being in accord with its
established policy and ordered the employer to bargain with the
union. Held:
1. The Board's order is sustained. P. 335.
2. A proper application of the rule prohibiting post-election
challenges, even though the result of the election might have been
different had the challenge been made and sustained, did not deprive
the Board of jurisdiction to find the employer guilty of an unfair
labor practice in refusing to bargain with the union. P. 333.
3. The rule forbidding the eligibility of a voter to be challenged
after the votes have been cast is in accordance with the National
Labor Relations Act and the principle of majority rule and is
justified by practical considerations. Pp. 330-333.
4. The fact that the employer -may have been honestly mistaken
as to the eligibility of the voter is no justification for disregarding
the rule. P. 333.

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

324

5. A provision in the agreement for the election as to the filing of
objections "to the conduct of the ballot" and "to a determination
of representatives based on the results thereof" within five days after
issuance of the "Tally of Ballots" did not constitute a waiver of
the rule, since there is a clear distinction between objections and
challenges in electoral parlance. P. 334.
6. In the absence of evidence that the representatives of the
Board and the employer discriminated against anti-union employees
in preparing the eligibility list. or in raising timely eligibility issues,
it cannot be said that the interests of anti-union employees were
inadequately represented. Pp. 334-335.
152 F. 2d 275, reversed.

The National Labor Relations Board sustained the validity of the election of a union asa collective bargaining
representative and ordered the employer to bargain with it.
60 N. L. R. B. 1414. The Circuit Court of Appeals set
aside the order. 152 F. 2d 275. This Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 827. Reversed, p. 335.
lerhard P. Van Arkel argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General McGrath,
Assistant Solicitor General Washington, Morris P. Glushien, Ruth Weyand and Joseph B. Robison.
John T. Noonan argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Malcolm Donald.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The isoue here concerns the procedure used in elections
under the National Labor Relations Act 1 in which employees choose a statutory representative for purposes of
collective bargaining. Specifically, we must determine
the propriety of the National Labor Relations Board's
refusal to accept an employer's post-election challenge to
149

Stat. 449,29 U. S. C. § 151, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

the eligibility of a voter who participated in a consent
election.
The respondent and a union entered into an agreement
to conduct an election by secret ballot on May 5, 1944,
under the supervision of the Board's regional director, to
determine whether the employees at respondent's Roxbury
plant in the unit defined in the agreement desired to be
represented by the union. The agreement was approved
by the regional director and provided that the election
was to be held "in accordance with the National Labor
Relations Act, the Board's Rules and Regulations, and
the customary procedures and policies of the Board."
The agreement set forth the qualifications for participation in the election. Only those who appeared on the
pay-roll on April, 21, 1944, were eligible; included were
those employees who did not work at the time because they
were ill, or on vacation, or temporarily laid off, or in the
armed forces. The respondent had the duty of furnishing the regional director with an accurate list of the eligible
voters, together with a list of the ineligible employees.2
The list of eligible voters was duly submitted on May 1,
1944.
The agreement further provided that both the union
and the respondent could have observers at the polling
places to assist in the handling of the election, to challenge
the eligibility of voters and to verify the tally. If challenges were made and if they were determinative of the
results of the election, the regional director was to investigate the challenges and issue a report thereon. All objections "to the conduct of the ballot" or "to a determination
of representatives based on the results thereof" were to
be filed with the regional director within five days after
issuance of the "Tally of Ballots." If the regional direc2

Among the ineligible persons were those who had quit or been
discharged for cause and had not been rehired or reinstated prior to
the date of the election.

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
324

Opinion of the Court.

tor sustained the objections, he had the power to void the
results and order a new election. The determination of
the regional director was to be final and binding upon
any question, "including questions as to the eligibility of
voters, raised by any party hereto relating in-any manner
to the election." Cf. Article III, §§ 10 and 12, of the
Board's Rules and Regulations (Series 3, effective Nov. 26,
1943).
The balloting took place on May 5 in accordance with
this agreement. After the 6allots were counted, the union
and the respondent signed a "Tally of Ballots," in which
the regional director certified that, of the 230 valid votes
counted, 116 were cast for the union and 114 against it,
with one other ballot beingchallenged by the union.' Four
days later, on May 9, respondent's counsel wrote the
regional director that subsequent to the election "it came
to the attention of the management of the Company that
Mrs. Jennie A. Kane, one of the persons who voted at the
election, was not at the time an employee of the Company."' The letter explained that Mrs. Kane was employed by respondent from March 16, 1943, through
March 24, 1944, but that after the latter date she had
never reported again for work and had never appeared
at the plant except for purposes of voting on May 5. It
3 It was unnecessary to rule on the challenged ballot since it could
not affect the result of the election, even though the ballot proved to
oe against the union.
4 The letter recited that "It has now come to their attention, howwer, that on April 28, 1944, Mrs. Kane filed with the Division of
mployment Security of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts a claim
or unemployment benefits stating, in connection with that claim, that
:he had left the employ of the A. J. Tower Company in March, 1944,
ind that her reason for leaving was that she 'could not continue to
do heavy work of carrying bundles which was part of her job.' The
Company has also learned that on the same day, April 28, 1944, Mrs.
Kane visited the United States Employment Office ad was placed on
its list of persons available for em~loyment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

was admitted that the respondent, "not being advised by
Mrs. Kane of any intention on her part to leave their
employ, assumed that she was ill and continued her among
their list of employees and, therefore, did not exclude her
from the list of employees they believed eligible to vote."
The letter accordingly challenged Mrs. Kane's right to
vote, as well as the ballot cast by her. A hearing was
requested for the purpose of passing upon the one ballot
challenged by the union. If that challenge were not sustained and the ballot proved to be a vote against the union,
Mrs. Kane's ballot would become material to the result of
the election; on that condition, the respondent requested
a hearing on its challenge to Mrs. Kane's vote.
A hearing on the matters raised by this letter was held
before the regional director. He subsequently made a
report in which he found that respondent included Mrs.
Kane's name on the list of eligible voters submitted on
May 1 on the assumption that she was ill and had not quit
her job; that respondent made no attempt between May 1
and May 5 to remove Mrs. Kane's name from the list,
although prior to the election respondent received by mail
a notice of Mrs. Kane's claim for unemployment compensation; that respondent's observers at the polls had not
challenged Mrs. Kane when she voted in their presence;
and that these observers certified before the ballots were
counted that the election had been properly conducted.
The regional director also found that the evidence was
conflicting as to Mrs. Kane's actual status.' But he concluded that under the circumstances the respondent had
5

An agent of the Board interviewed Mrs. Kane and was told by
her that: "On April 28, 1944, 1 applied for Unemployment Compensation benefits, thinking I was entitled to such because of my illness.
At no time, prior or since, have I considered myself not an employee
of the A. J. Tower Co. I have never requested my release of the
A. J. Tower Co. and in fact I intend to return to the Company when
I have regained my strength. I did not think that my-application for

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
324

Opinion of the Court.

waived its right to challenge her vote or to object to the
election on this ground. This determination made it unnecessary for him to rule on the ballot previously challenged by the union, since it could not affect the result.
He thus found that the union had received a majority of
the valid votes cast and was the exclusive representative
of the employees in the appropriate unit.
The respondent thereafter refused to bargain with the
union in question. Upon a complaint issued by the Board,
the respondent admitted its refusal but denied that the
union had ever been designated by a majority of the employees in the appropriate unit. It asserted that the election of May 5 was inconclusive on the subject because
if Mrs. Kane's ballot were subtracted from the union's
total and if the ballot challenged by the union were opened
upon overruling the challenge and proved to be against the
union, the outcome of the election would be a tie vote.
The Board, after the usual proceedings, held that it would
not disturb the rulings of a regional director on questions
arising out of a consent election "unless such rulings appear
to be unsupported by substantial evidence or are arbitrary
or capricious" and that no such grounds for disturbing the
ruling were present in the instant case. As an alternative
ground for its action, the Board held that the regional
director's refusal under the circumstances to permit an
attack on Mrs. Kane's status as a voter after the results
unemployment benefits would be considered a termination from the
Company ....

On May 5, 1944, wheir I presented myself at the

election polls at the A. J. Tower Co., I considered myself an employee
of the Company and therefore entitled to cast a ballot. I still consider myself an employee of the A. J. Tower Co."
But the regional director pointed out that, despite this statement,
subsequent investigation confirmed the fact that Mrs. Kane advised
the Division of Employment Security on April 28, 1944, that she had
left her employment with the respondent in March because of the
heavy work in carrying bundles. See note 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

of the election had been announced "is in complete accord
with the established principles and policy of the Board"which excluded post-election challenges "because of our
belief that otherwise an election could be converted from
a definitive resolution of preference into a protracted resolution of objections disregarded or suppressed against the
contingency of an adverse result." See also Matter of
Norris, Inc., 63 N. L. R. B. 502, 512. The Board accordingly ordered respondent to cease and desist from its unfair
labor practice and to take the affirmative action of bargaining collectively with the union. 60 N. L. R. B. 1414.
The First Circuit Court of Appeals, however, set aside
the Board's order. 152 F. 2d 275. It construed the Act
as making it a jurisdictional prerequisite to a determination that an employer has committed the unfair labor
practice of refusing to bargain collectively that the union
with which he has refused to deal should have been chosen
by a majority of those voting who were in fact employees.
It held that since the vote challenged by the union may
have been cast against it and since Mrs. Kane was not
found to have been an employee on the crucial date, there
may have been a tie vote and the Board was without jurisdiction to find the respondent guilty of a violation of § 8
(5). We granted certiorari because of the importance of
the matter in the administration of the Act and because
of a conflict between the result below and'that reached by
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Labor Board v.
Capitol GreyhoundLines, 140 F. 2d 754.
As we have noted before, Congress has entrusted the
Board with a wide degree of discretion in establishing ithe
procedure and safeguards necessary to insure the fair and
free choice of bargaining representatives by employees.
Southern S. S. Co. v. Labor Board, 316 U. S. 31, 37; Labor
Board v. Waterman S. S. Co,, 309 U. S.206, 226; Labor
Board v. Falk Corp., 308 U. S.453, 458. Section 9 (c) of
the Act authorizes the Board to "take a secret ballot of

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
324

Opinion of the Court.

employees, or utilize any other suitable method to ascertain such representatives." In carrying out this task, of
course, the Board must act so as to give effect to the principle of majority rule set forth in § 9 (a), a rule that "is
sanctioned by our governmental practices, by business
procedure, and by the whole philosophy of democratic
institutions." S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13.
It is within this democratic framework that the Board must
adopt policies and promulgate rules and regulations in
order that employees' votes may be recorded accurately,
efficiently and speedily.
The principle of majority rule, however, does not foreclose practical adjustments designed to protect the election
machinery from the ever-present dangers of abuse and
fraud. Indeed, unless such adjustments are made, the
democratic process may be perverted and the election may
fail to reflect the will of the majority of the electorate.
One of the commonest protective devices is to require that
challenges to the eligibility of voters be made prior to the
actual casting of ballots, so that all uncontested votes are
given absolute finality. In political elections, this device
often involves registration lists which are closed some time
prior to election day; all challenges as to registrants must
be made during the intervening period or at the polls.
Thereafter it is too late. The fact that cutting off the right
to challenge conceivably may result in the counting of
some ineligible votes is thought to be far outweighed by the
dangers attendant upon the allowance of indiscriminate
challenges after the election. To permit such challenges,
it is said, would invade the secrecy of the ballot, destroy
the finality of the election result, invite unwarranted and
dilatory claims by defeated candidates and "keep perpetually before the courts the same excitements, strifes,
and animosities which characterize the hustings, and
which ought, for the peace of the community, and the
safety and stability of our institutions, to terminate with

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

the close of the polls." Cooley, Constitutional Limitations
(8th ed., 1927), p. 1416.
Long experience has demonstrated the fairness and efficaciousness of the general rule that once a ballot has been
cast without challenge and its identity has been lost, its
validity cannot later be challenged. This rule is universally recognized as consistent with the democratic process.
And it is generally followed in corporate elections. The
Board's adoption of the rule in elections under the National Labor Relations Act is therefore in accord with the
principles which Congress indicated should be used in
securing the fair and free choice of collective bargaining
representatives.
Moreover, the rule in question is one that is peculiarly
appropriate to the situations confronting the Board in
these elections. In an atmosphere that may be charged
with animosity, post-election challenges would tempt a
losing union or an employer to make undue attacks on
the eligibility of voters so as to delay the finality and statutory effect of the election results. Such challenges
would also extend an opportunity for the inclusion of ineligible pro-union or anti-union men on the pay-roll list in
the hope that they might escape challenge before voting,
thereafter giving rise to a charge that the election was void
because of their ineligibility and the possibility that they
had voted with the majority and were a decisive factor.
The privacy of the voting process, which is of great importance in the industrial world, would frequently be
destroyed by post-election challenges. And voters would
often incur union or employer disfavor through their
reaction to the inquiries.
We are unable to say, therefore, that the Board's prohibition of post-election challenges is without justification
in law or in reason. It gives a desirable and necessary
finality to elections, yet affords all interested parties a
reasonable period in which to challenge the eligibility of

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

324

any voter. And an exception to the rule is recognized
where the Board's agents or the parties benefiting from
the Board's refusal to entertain the issue know of the
voter's ineligibility and suppress the facts.' The Board
thus appears to apply the prohibition fairly and equitably
in light of the realities involved.
The reliance of the court below upon the asserted jurisdictional requirement was misplaced. It is true that it isan unfair labor practice for an employer to refuse to bargain with a union only if that union was chosen by a
majority of the voting employees. But the determination of whether a majority in fact voted for the union must
be made in accordance with such formal rules of procedure
as the Board may find necessary to adopt in the sound
exercise of its discretion. The rule prohibiting post-election challenges is one of those rules. When it is applied
properly, it cannot deprive the Board of jurisdiction to
find an unlawful failure to bargain collectively. That is
true even where it subsequently is ascertainable that some
of the votes cast were in fact ineligible and that the result
of the election might have been different had the truth...
previously been known. T1he rule does not pretend to be
an absolute guarantee that only those votes will be counted
which are in fact eligible. It is simply a justifiable and
reasonable adjustment of the democratic process.
There is no basis in the instant case for disregarding
the Board's policy in this respect. The fact that the respondent may have been honestly mistaken as to the status
of Mrs. Kane has no relevance whatever to the justification for the use of the policy. And nothing in the consent
agreement constituted a waiver of the policy by the Board.
On the contrary, the agreement expressly stated that the
election was to be held in accordance with "the customary
6

See Matter of Hale, 62 N. L. R. B. 1393; Matter of Beggs & Cobb,

Inc., 62 N. L. R. B. 193.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

procedures and policies of the Board," which would include
the policy prohibiting post-election challenges. The provision as to the filing of objections "to the conduct of the
ballot" and "to a determination of representatives based
on the results thereof" within five days after issuance of the
"Tally of Ballots," a provision which was quite separate
from that relating to challenges, obviously has no application here. Objections and challenges are two different
things in electoral parlance. Objections relate to the working of the election mechanism and to the process of counting the ballots accurately and fairly. Challenges, on the
other hand, concern the eligibility of prospective voters.
The Board uses this clear distinction as a matter of policy
and we are not free to disregard it.'
Neither the record in this case nor the past history of
the policy against post-election challenges justifies an assumption that the interests of the anti-union employees
in this election were inadequately protected. Due notice
of the manner and conduct of the election was given to all
employees; and, despite the lack of any affirmative provisions in the consent agreement, there was no indication
that any of the employees were prohibited from examining
the eligibility list or from challenging any prospective
voter. Nor was there competent evidence that any antiunion employee made any objectioh, either before or after
the election, to the procedure adopted or to the casting
of any ballots.' Moreover. the representatives of the
"The Board follows a policy of differentiating between objections
to the conduct of an election and challenges [to] the eligibility of
voters and it does not ordinarily permit challenges under the guise
of objections after thq election." Matter of Norris, Inc., 63 N. L. R. B.
502, 512. Cf. Matter of Great Lakes Steel Corporation,15 N. L. R. B.
510.
S The respondent's factory superintendent testified that an unidentified employee came to him and "objected to the vote of this Jennie
Kane" several days after the election and even longer after the receipt
by-respondent of the notice of Mrs. Kane's unemployment compensa-

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
324

JACKSON,

335

J., dissenting.

Board, as well as those of the respondent, were bound to
perform their electoral functions on behalf of all employees, including those with anti-union sentiments. In
the absence of any evidence that such representatives discriminated against the anti-union employees in preparing
the eligibility list or in raising timely eligibility issues, we
cannot say that the interests of those employees were
inadequately represented.
Since we rest our decision solely on the propriety of the
Board's policy against post-election challenges, it is unnecessary to discuss the effect to be given by the Board to the
regional director's ruling that the respondent waived its
right to challenge Mrs. Kane's vote or the effect to be given
to the terms of the consent election agreement apart from
the general policy.
It follows that the court below erred in refusing to
enforce the Board's order in full.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting.
If the only interests affected were the complaining employer and the victorious union, I should agree with the
Court's decision. But there is a thirdand, as usual, a
forgotten interest here-those employees who did not want
to be represented by the union.
The election was held by agreement between the employer and the union which was seeking to organize the
plant. The Company was to furnish a list of eligible
tion claim, which had been mailed to respondent before the election.
This testimony was admitted merely to show "how the company
became interested in the question" of Mrs.'Kane's eligibility. The
Board, of course, was not compelled to accept this testimony as
proof of an objection to Mrs. Kane's vote by an anti-union employee
or as an indication that the interests of anti-union employees may have
been inadequately represented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

voters. The Company and the union were each to have
observers attend, with the right to challenge the voters.
The agreement did not give anti-organization employees
either observers or the right to challenge. The certified
result of 116 union against 114 anti-union votes was
reached by not counting a ballot which the union challenged and by counting the ballot which the Company
now points out was probably invalid. Mrs. Kane's vote,
no matter whether valid or invalid, is thus allowed to
decide the election.
It is in evidence and undisputed that, after the election
an employee-presumably anti-union, from the circumstance that he was objecting-raised the question that
Mrs. Kane, who was carried on the Company's eligible list
because the Company believed she was absent for illness,
had, in fact, left the employ of the.Company with no intention to return. If that is true, she was not a qualified
voter.
But because there was no challenge at the time her
ballot was cast, the Court holds there can be no inquiry
into its validity. Comparison with the practice at general
public elections is specious, for in those elections every
citizen has a right of challenge and registration lists usually are made up and available in advance. No comparable safeguards for the employees opposed to the union
appear to exist here, though both the employer and the
union were protected.
The Court taes the position that although every other
interest has affirmative protection, there is no necessity
for similar affirmative protection to the anti-union employees. Despite the fact that both of the contracting
parties were careful to provide such protection for themselves, the Court assumes it is unnecessary for the third
interest. The Court says that, in the absence of evidence,
it will assume that such interests were adequately represented, at the same time closing the door to hearing evi-

LABOR BOARD v. TOWER CO.
324

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

dence as to whether those interests were prejudiced unless
those who are denied affirmative representation or challenge rights should have made affirmative objection before
the wrong was consummated by casting the illegal ballot.
And, of course, the members of such a minority have no
standing to bring their problems either to the Board or
to the Court. We hear of their grievance, if at all, only
through its being identical with some complaint which
the employer raises.
The Court fears that to permit inquiry into the validity
of Mrs. Kane's vote would "extend an opportunity for the
inclusion of ineligible pro-union or anti-union men on the
pay-roll list'" who would be challenged after the election in
the hope of voiding an unwanted result. Of course, there
are opportunities for manipulation of such a list, for collusion between employer and favored groups, for fraud, and
for honest mistakes.
But if the Court is concerned to keep the elections pure,
why close the door to proof of such corruption or mistake
when it operates against an anti-union group, because it
has not been challenged by one of the parties to it: to wit,
the employer? In the usual election, it may be desirable
to put an end to challenges at the time when the ballots
become intermingled and indistinguishable. But to justify
cutting off inquiry, it should appear that all persons interested in the election have had adequate opportunity to
question the ballots cast.. As long as no such provision is
made for employees who are opposed to organization, I
would protect their rights by allowing post-election challenges on such grounds as are urged here.
Of course the protection this gives is far from satisfactory. The challenge must be initiated by the parties
the Board recognizes, the employer or the union. But
there will be some instances in which their interest coincides with that of the anti-union employees. On the other
hand, I can scarcely think of a more perfect device for

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

encouraging unscrupulousness, than to invest it with finality against all inquiry either by the Board or the courts.
Here half the employees are forced to accept union representation as the result of an election in which they were
not allowed to protect the ballot, and those who were,
failed to do so. If I really wanted to discourage fraud,
collusion, and mistakes, and protect the integrity of elections and the rights of both minority and majority, I
should hold that such elections can be looked into whenever irregularity appears to have affected the result.

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 23.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 2, 3, 1946. Reargued October 23, 1946-Decided
December 23, 1946.
1. Having been denied classification as a minister of religion under
the Selective Training and Service Act, classified as a conscientious
objector and ordered to report to a civilian camp for work of
national importance, and having exhausted his administrative remedies up to that point, Dodez refused to go to camp. The regulations
then applicable provided for a preinduction physical examination
before issuance of the order to report for induction but not after
reporting to camp, so that there was no possibility that he would be
rejected after reporting to camp. He was indicted for violating § 11
of the Act and defended on the ground that his classification was
invalid. Held: He was not required to report to camp in order to
complete the administrative process and is not foreclosed from
making the defense that his classification was invalid. Pp. 343-350.
(a) Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S. 549, distinguished on the
ground that, under the regulations governing Falbo, he might have
been rejected upon a physical examination after reporting to camp.
Pp. 343-350.
*Together with No. 86, Dodez v. United States, on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, argued October 23,
1946.

