INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 607
Syllabus.

INSURANCE GROUP COMMITTEE

ET AL.

v. DEN-

VER & RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILROAD CO.
ET AL. *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 690. Argued January 6, 1947.-Decided February 3, 1947.
After confirmation of a plan for reorganization of a railroad under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act had been affirmed by this Court, 328
U. S. 495, the debtor moved in the District Court for a re-examination of the plan in the light of circumstances which had changed
since the Interstate Commerce Commission's hearings on the plan.
The debtor specified three categories of changed conditions: (a)
The decline in money rates to a level far below the rates prevailing
at the time of the Commission's hearings, (b) the recent purchase
by private capital for private operation of a steel plant which had
been constructed by the Government during the war in the area
served by the railroad, and (c) a permanent elevation of the national income through intensified industrial activity involving for the
indefinite future a greatly increased demand for railway transportation. The debtor prayed that, upon re-examination, the District
Court set aside its orders approving and confirming the plan and
refer the proceeding back to the Interstate Commerce Commission
for the formulation of a new plan. Held.:
1. Re-examination would not be justified in this case; because the
debtor has failed to allege the existence, since this Court's decision
affirming the confirmation of the plan, of changed conditions of a
kind not envisaged and considered by the Commission in its deliberations upon or explanations of the plan. P.611.
2. This Court having ruled in its prior decision that in this reorganization no changed circumstances, up to that date, presented to
it by the debtor or other respondents in that review justified a reexamination of the plan as confirmed, that ruling was binding on
the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals as to changed
circumstances arising after the order of confirmation and prior to
the decision of this Court. P. 612.
3. While power rests in a federal court that passes an order or
decision to change its position on a subsequent review in the same
cause, orderly judicial action, except in unusual circumstances, re-

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

quires it to refuse to permit the relitigation of matters or issues
previously determined on a former review. P. 612.
4. The changed conditions relied upon by the debtor in support
of its motion for re-examination of the plan have been considered
or anticipated heretofore by the Commission, the District Court,
the Circuit Court of Appeals and this Court. Pp. 613-617.
5. Until it can be contended with some show of reasonableness
that creditors senior to the creditors and stockholders whom the
debtor. represents here have received more in value than the face of
their claims, the debtor's insistence on a re-examination of the plan
is without substantial support. P. 618.
6. While allegations of a petition for re-examination into a confirmed railroad reorganization plan need not contain allegations of
the primary facts, they should allege ultimate facts, such as sales
and values of securities or improved earnings, sufficient to indicate
the factual basis for a re-examination; and such facts have not been
alleged here. Pp. 618-619.
7. To open a confirmed plan of railroad reorganization, assuming
the power to do so, accepted after years of consideration, requires
a showing by allegation of injustice to the complaining debtor or
junior creditors far stronger than any made here. P. 619.
8. The record affirmatively shows a proper basis for the valuation and allocation of securities by the Commission and fails to show
any sound basis for a re-examination on account of changed circumstances between the date of the Commission's hearings and the
date of this Court's prior decision. P. 619.
9. As to the period since this Court's prior decision, there is no
basis in the eecord or in anything judicially known to this Court
for a conclusion that there has been a significant change in interest
rates, earnings available for interest, or traffic. P. 620.
10. The action of Congress in passing a bill pertaining to railroad
reorganizations, which was vetoed by the President, does not require
a stay to await further enactments that might affect this reorganization, since this Court does not know whether any changes will be
enacted and must continue to act under existing law. P. 620.
11. The public interest in what persons or corporations hold in
the future a controlling voice in the management of this railroad has
already been considered and protected by the Commission. P.
620.
12. Nothing before or since the confirmation of this plan indicates
any disregard by the Commission or the courts of the interests of
operators, stockholders, creditors or the public. Pp. 620-621.
Order denying petition affirmed.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 609
607

Opinion of the Court.

After confirmation of a plan for reorganization of a railroad under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act had been affirmed
by this Court, 328 U. S. 495 (rehearing denied, 329 U. S.
824), the debtor moved in the District Court for a re-examination of the plan in the light of circumstances which
had changed since the Interstate Commerce Commission's
hearings on the plan (254 I. C. C. 6). The District Court
dismissed the petition. The debtor appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals and a Judge of that Court issued an
order staying proceedings in the District Court to consummate the plan. Under Judicial Code § 240 (a) this Court
granted a writ of certiorari before judgment in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 329 U. S. 708. The order of the Circuit Judge directing a stay of the consummation of the
plan is vacated and the order of the District Judge denying
the petition is affirmed, p. 621.
George D. Gibson and Kenneth F. Burgess argued the
cause for petitioners. With them on the brief were Henry
W. Anderson, John W. Riely, Morrison Shafroth, William
Grant, Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Alexander M. Lewis, Edwin S. S. Sunderland, James L. Homire, W. A. W. Stewart
and Arthur A. Gammell.
William V. Hodges and Frank C. Nicodemus, Jr. argued
the cause and filed a brief for respondents.
delivered the opinion of the Court
On November 29, 1944, the District Court for the District of Colorado confirmed a plan of reorganization for
the debtor, the Denver & Rio Grande Western Railroad
Co., 62 F. Supp. 384, notwithstanding the rejection of
the plan by holders of the General Mortgage bonds pursuant to § 77 (e). Upon appeal the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the order of confirmation. This Court
granted certiorari, reversed the Circuit Court and affirmed
the order of confirmation. 328 U. S. 495. The debtor conMR.

JUSTICE REED

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

sistently opposed the plan throughout those proceedings.
After the opinion of this Court was filed on June 10, 1946,
the debtor petitioned for a rehearing, which was denied
October 28,1946. At about the same time as that of filing
its petition for rehearing, it moved in the District Court
(September 17, 1946) for a re-examination of the plan in
the lighi of circumstances which had changed since the
Interstate Commerce Commission's hearings on the plan
in May, 1941. 254 I. C. C. 5, 6. The debtor specified three
categories of changed conditions: "(a) The decline in
money rates to a level far below the rates prevailing at
these dates; (b) The recent public offering by the Government and purchase by private capital for private operation of the steel plant at Geneva, near Provo, Utah,
which had been constructed by the Government in the
exigencies of the War at a cost in excess of $200,000,000;
(c) A permanent elevation of the National income through
intensified industrial activity involving for the indefinite future a greatly increased demand for railway
transportation."
The debtor prayed that upon re-examination the
District Court set aside its order of October 25, 1943,
approving the plan, and its order of November 29, 1944,
confirming the plan, and refer the proceeding back to
the Interstate Commerce Commission for the formulation
of a new plan. After a hearing on a motion to dismiss
the debtor's petition but without the introduction of evidence, the District Court dismissed the petition on October
30, 1946, on the grounds that the order of confirmation
determined the rights of participation and that the District Court did not now have power to reopen the proceedings. The District Court also held that the petition
failed to state a case that justified reconsideration. The
debtor filed notice of appeal and requested a stay of
execution of the plan on the same day; the latter motion

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 611
607

Opinion of the Court.

was denied by the District Court at that time. Thereupon
the debtor docketed its appeal in the Circuit Court of
Appeals and applied for an order staying execution of the
plan until the appeal should be considered. This application of the debtor was granted on November 2, 1946, by
an order of Judge Phillips staying proceedings in the District Court to consummate the plan. A petition for certiorari to the Circuit Court was filed in this Court under
Judicial Code § 240 (a) which asked that we grant a writ
of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals, before judgment, and that the order of the District Court be affirmed
in this Court. The grounds urged were that the action
of the respondent was in violation of the mandate of
this Court issued June 10, 1946, and that even if the
mandate had not been violated the denial of the petition to
reopen proceedings on the plan was not appealable because
the petition for re-examination was in reality a petition for
rehearing. Further, petitioner urged that this Court take
and decide the whole case because the claim of change of
circumstances was repetitious of the same claim rejected
by this Court in its June, 1946, decision and that no allegations were made sufficient to justify a re-examination of
the plan on account of- changes in circumstances since the
June decision. Because of the importance of the questions raised to the efficient administration of railroad reorganizations under the Bankruptcy Act, we granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 708.
We may assume, arguendo, that both this Court upon
appeal from an order of confirmation in bankruptcy, and
the bankruptcy court itself, after its order of confirmation has been affirmed on review (11 U. S. C. § 205 (f)),
may take cognizance of subsequent changes in conditions
and order a plan re-examined by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. On that assumption, we are of the opinion
that the debtor has failed to allege the existence of changed

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

conditions since our decision of June 10, 1946, of a kind not
"envisaged and considered by the Commission in its deliberations upon or explanations of the plan." ReconstructionFinance Corp. v. Denver & R. G. W. R. Co., 328
U. S. 495, 522. We do not therefore think that re-examination would be justified in this case.
The conclusion in the foregoing paragraph removes the
necessity of considering the question whether the respondent disregarded the effect of the judgment of this Court
of June 10, 1946, which affirmed the orders of approval
and confirmation of the plan. Likewise it disposes of any
necessity to determine whether this petition in the District Court was in reality a request for a rehearing. Cf.
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150,
247.
Upon the same assumption employed above, we ruled
in our decision of June 10, 1946, 328 U. S. 495, 534,
that in this reorganization no changed circumstances, up to
that date, presented to us by the debtor or other respondents in that review justified a re-examination of the plan
as confirmed. This ruling was binding upon the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals as to changed
circumstances arising after the order of confirmation and
prior to our decision. When matters are decided by an
appellate court, its rulings, unless i eversed by it or a superior court, bind the lower court. Thus a cause proceeds
to final determination. While power rests in a federal
court that passes an order or decision to change its position
on a subsequent review in the same cause, orderly judicial
action, except in unusual circumstances, requires it to
refuse to permit the relitigation of matters or issues previously determined on a former review.'
1Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339, 344;
King v. West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92, 101; Messenger v. Anderson, 225
U. S. 436, 444; Wichita Co. v. City Bank, 306 U. S. 103, 106. Cf.
Chaffin v. Taylor, 116 U. S. 567, 572.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. &R. G. W. R. CO. 613
607

Opinion of the Court.

The"debtor's brief and .the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals on the hearing of the review of the orders of
approval and confirmation of the plan make clear that
changed circumstances in the period between the Interstate Commerce Commission hearings in May, 1941, and
our decision of June 10, 1946, of a like character with
those now alleged, were relied upon by the debtor in its
former effort to set aside the District Court's orders of
approval and confirmation. The debtor argued on the
former review, as it again argues, that the plan should
not be confirmed because of the "radical lowering for the
indefinite future of money rates." And it was emphasized
at that time that capitalizing on these lower rates would
permit the issuance of a greater volume of securities
against earnings of the debtor, and consequently a larger
allotment to presently dissatisfied creditors. Every example of railroad refinancing, listed in respondent's present
brief to support by illustration the argument of falling
interest rates, was listed in the brief on the last review for
the same purpose. The purpose was to set forth instances
of the issue of railroad securities at interest rates definitely
lower than those borne by the debtor's issues. The debtor
in its brief of that time also argued the beneficial effects
of the "permanent elevation of National income" upon
the anticipated earnings of the debtor. Lastly, the debtor
there pointed out that the establishment and construction of the great Geneva steel plant was "certain to be
revolutionary in its contribution to the new earning power
of the Debtor . . ." Although it did not then rely, as it
does now, upon the purchase of that corporation by private
capital, the argument, then as now, was that the prospective business from a great steel plant was a factor indicating higher earnings. The plant may or may not turn
out to be strategically located for private low cost operation and distribution. The shift of ownership has only
moderate significance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

In sum, the very kinds of changed circumstances which
were argued here formerly as reasons for not approving
and confirming the plan of reorganization were presented
by the petition now under review to the District Court
as reasons why that court should vacate its orders of
approval and confirmation, and remand the plan to the
Commission for reconsideration. The debtor argues that
it only urged this Court to take judicial notice of the
existence of these changed circumstances, and that our
refusal to do so should not bar it from proving these
changes in the District Court. Our holding was not based
upon a conclusion that this Court could not take judicial
notice of changes in economic conditions subsequent to
approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission. We
concluded that, even if weighed, the alleged changes were
not of a kind which justified re-examination of the plan.
328 U. S. 495, 534.
The questions of interest rates and increased earnings
from the Geneva steel plant were considered by the
Commission and the District Court before the order of
confirmation. The approval of the plan by the Commission on June 14, 1943, appraised economic changes
subsequent to the hearings. 254 I. C. C. 349, 356, 358,
359.
The Commission gave consideration to the interest rates
the proposed securities should bear. 328 U. S. 495, 515,
516. There was a forecast of available income of
$6,215,423 for annual charges in a future normal year. It
was thought that this would support a capitalization of
$155,000,000 plus, even though more than $35,000,000 of
that represented by common stock participated only in
earnings above the estimated normal except as to longrange advantages from capital investments and bond sinking-fund payments that had the effect of increasing the
value of the common stock equities. 254 I. C. C. 15, 356.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 617
607

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission made no finding that the eash value
of the securities allocated to the senior creditors paid them
in full. To justify the change of position of creditors
from fully secured to partially secured, creditors were given
opportunities to participate in profits through common
stock ownership with a chance at larger earnings than the
Commission's forecast anticipated. We held the priority
rule was satisfied by this type of allocation. This was
explained by our decision on the last review. 328 U. S.
495, 517-518. The debtor has made no allegation,
either in this effort for re-examination or before, that the
existing cash value of the securities allotted any creditor
has ever aggregated the amount of the creditor's claim
against the debtor.u We think the absence of such an
allegation, of itself, demonstrates that the plan is not,
because of excessive interest, unfair to the debtor or those
for whom it is allowed to appear.
8 As far as they are readily available to us, the ranges of the reorganized road's securities traded on a when, as and if issued basis have
been as follows:
1945
1946

High

Low

High

Low

First Bonds ................
103
82
102
89
Income Bonds ..............
891/2 441/
89
50
Preferred Stock .............
752 37
Common Stock .............
351/2 16
Bond ranges are from Year's End Edition of Moody's Bond Record,
Vol. 14, No. 1, January 10, 1947; stock ranges are from Standard &
Poor's Earnings and Ratings Stock Guide, Year's End Edition,
January, 1947.
The highest market bids on the securities so far this year are, so
far as the figures are available to us:
First Bonds ...................................... 89
Income Bonds ...................................
62
Preferred Stock ..................................
50
Common Stock ..................................
161/
From Commercial & Financial Chronicle, Editions of January 6,
January 13, and January 20, 1947.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Until it can be contended with some show of reasonableness that the creditors senior to the creditors and stockholders whom the debtor represents here have received
more in value than the face of their claims, the debtor's
insistence on a re-examination of the plan is without substantial support. See Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd,
228 U. S. 482; Group of Investor8 v. Milwaukee R. Co.,
318 U. S. 523,541.
Not only does the debtor fail to allege any actual sales
or values of the securities which would show that the
creditors have received through the allotted securities payments on their claimq in excess of their face, but there is
no allegation of a radically improved situation as to this
railroad's earnings available for interest.' Although distortions of income available for interest from varying
causes do appear in the reports of the Trustees, available
interest is an important figure as a basis for the consideration of capitalization. Traffic comparisons are not specifically set out.8 While the allegations of a petition for
The annual reports of the Trustees to stockholders show the income
available for interest as follows:
1942 .............................. $17,044,420.39
1943 .............................. 11,573,667.94
1944 ..............................
8, 157,880.25
1945 ..............................
1,503,289.07 Dr.*
In 1946 the income available for all fixed charges at the end of
eleven months was $3,405,118.00.
*This deficit is shown after deducting from gross earnings a tax
accrual for prior years of $3,648,589.63 (in addition to the tax accrual
for the year 1945) and $12,790,657.50 in amortization of war facilities.
8 Revenue freight carloading weekly report of American Association
of Railroads shows car loadings for the month of December for the
years 1941 to 1946 as follows:
1941 ..............
14,045
1944 ..............
15,308
1942 .............. 16,915
1945 .............. 12,007
1943 .............. 14,571
1946 .............. 13,517

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 615
607

Opinion of the Court.

As appears from the tables of capitalizaticn, annual
charges and distribution of securities, 328 U. S. 495, 502503, the interest rates chosen varied with the type of security. As none of the authorized securities are alleged by
the debtor to have shown values much above par, the
chosen rates of return have not proven to be excessive.
See note 6, infra. From the various recommendations as
to the proper interest for the new first mor tgage bonds, the
Commission selected finally a fixed rate of three per cent
and a contingent rate of an additional one per cent.2 233
I. C. C. 537, 542, 554-5; 254 I. C. C. 15, 387. To guard
against a drain upon the reorganized railroad if interest
rates should fall, a provision appears in the plan' for refunding the authorized first mortgage bonds at a maximum
premium of 5 per cent. This gives protection to the reorganized road if not to the unpaid creditors and excluded
stockholders.
Much the same situation exists as to the Geneva Steel
Plant. A discussion occurred before the District Court
on October 23, 1942, in which it wa recognized that the
plant would make a substantial contribution to the traffic
of the road. This was the basis for further consideration
before approval by the Commission on its reconsideration
of the plan, 254 I. C. C. 349, 356. The effect of the existence of this plant received further consideration in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 150 F. 2d 28, 34, 38, 43.
As we indicated above, the alleged increases in the
national income were briefed and decided contrary to the
debtor's contention on the former review. Nothing was
called to our attention in the former review to indicate that
an increased level of economic activity above that in actual
2 The earnings contingency which authorized the payment of the
prior contingent interest, as expressed in technical detail at 254 I. C. C.
393-94, was the net income less certain fixed charges.
3

254 I. C. C. 387.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

existence when the order of confirmation was issued had
occurred beyond that anticipated by the Commission.'
Earnings available for interest depend upon costs as well
as upon revenue. It might be added to this Court's comments on railroad rate increases, 328 U. S. 495, 522,
n. 29, that in handing down its order of December 5,
1946, granting certain increases, the Interstate Commerce
Commission considered the necessity of meeting the
increased costs.'
' The national income* as reported in the annual publication of the
Department of Commerce, The Survey of Current Business, for the
following years was, in billions:
1940 ............... 77.6
1943 ............... 149.4
1941 ............... 96.9
1944 ............... 160.7
1942 ............... 122.2
1945 ............... 161.0
The national income as computed by the Department of Commerce
is tentatively estimated at 164.0 billions for 1946; for 1947, no statement of an expected increase. See The Economic Report of the
President to the Congress, of January 8, 1947, H. Doc. No. 49, 80th
Cong., 1st Sess., as required under the Employment Act of 1946, 60
Stat. 23.
The Dow-Jones average of the ten first-grade rails was 117.25 on
June 10, 1946, but had fallen to 110.73 on December 30, 1946. The
market bid for the first bonds of the reorganized debtor, when, as,
and if issued, was 101 on June 10, :946, but had fallen to 89 on December 30, 1946. These latter figures are from the Commercial and
Financial Chronicle, issues of June 10 and December 30, 1946.
*National income is the total net income earned in production by
individuals or businesses.
3 While the reports of the Commission deal with the national railroad situation rather than with individual roads, an examination of
them does not indicate that the Commission intended to supply by
means of the increase in rates a net railway operating income sufficient to give a rate of return on invested capital substantially higher
than for normal pre-war years. 264 I. C. C. 695, 722, 728; I. C. C.,
Ex parte No. 162, December 5, 1946, mimeographed report, p. 7.
See the discussion of increased revenue and costs, mimeographed
report, supra, pp. 3, 4, 5.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 619
607

Opinion of the Court.

re-examination into a confirmed railroad reorganization
plan need not contain allegations of the primary facts, the
allegations should allege ultimate facts, such as those just
referred to, sufficient to indicate the factual basis for a reexamination. The allegations of changed conditions in
this petition to the District Court do not have the specificity of those which caused this Court in 1932 to direct an
injunction against a Commission order of 1930 that was
based on hearings that antedated the depression, beginning in 1929.' The ruling in that case has not been
extended to authorize the reopening of hearings before the
Commission because of alleged changes in conditions. For
cases of that type, this Court has pointed out, there must
be a showing of substantial injury." We have approved a
statement that the Atchison case rested upon exceptional
facts."'
To open a confirmed plan of railroad reorganization,
assuming the power to do so, accepted after years of consideration, requires a showing by allegation of injustice
to the complaining debtor or junior creditors far stronger
than any here made. Compare Pewabic Mining Co. v,
Mason, 145 U. S. 349, 356, 367; Group of Investors v. Milwaukee R. Co., 318 U. S. 523, 543.
Much of what we have written is directed at the suggestion that there should be a plenary re-examination of
reorganization proposals for the Denver & Rio Grande.
As to that suggestion, we are of the opinion that the record affirmatively shows a proper basis for the valuation
and allocation of securities by the Commission, 328 U. S.
495, 502-503, and that the record fails to show any sound
9Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. United States, 284
U. S. 248, 256.
10 United States v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 288 U. S. 490, 494.
21Interstate Commerce Commission v. City of Jersey City, 322 U. S.
503, 515.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

'329 U. S.

basis for a re-examination on account of changed circumstances between May, 1941, and June 10, 1946.
So far as the period since June 10, 1946, is concerned,
there is no basis in this record or in anything judicially
known to us for a conclusion that there has been asignificant change in interest rates, earnings available for interest
or traffic. Nor do we see that the action of Congress in
passing S. 1253, on July 31, 1946, should persuade us to
require a stay to await further enactments that might
affect this reorganization. It was vetoed. President's
Memorandum of Disapproval, August 13, 1946. Our
understanding of our duties under the Railroad Reorganization Act, in the face of strong criticism of its provisions, was expressed in the former review of this plan,
328 U. S. 495,509, 510. It need not be repeated. We must
continue to act under the now existing law. Whether
or not changes may be made that will effect this reorganization, we do not know. It is quite understandable
to us that stockholders strive to preserve the equities of
their investments and that creditors should feel, in this
case, that they have not recovered the value of their investment. Such convictions are to be respected.
The suggestion is made that there is a public interest
in what persons or corporations hold in the future a controlling voice in the management of this railroad. This
matter had the consideration of the Commission, 254
I. C. C. at 367 et seq. The plan adopted contains a tenyear voting trust for the new stock with Commission-regulated provisions for its sale. 254 I. C. C. at 400. The
record does not present any ground for concluding that
the new owners will be any the less solicitous for the
public welfare than those who, at present, hold the stock
certificates.
However, nothing before or since the confirmation of
this plan indicates any disregard by the Commission or
the courts of the interest of operators, stockholders, the

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 621
607

FRANKFYMTER,

J., dissenting.

creditors or the public. When the Interstate Commerce
Commission finds the value of a railroad system by any
means, the correctness of the result cannot be mathematically proved or disproved. The difficulties of appraisal are multiplied by the necessity of looking into the
future to estimate earnings. Earnings estimates are made
with allowance for changing economic conditions. So
are interest rates. All this is recognized by everyone; but
the Commission has found no better way to determine the
allocation of npw securities among the various classes of
stockholders or of creditors of a railroad with their different rights. Cf. Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Denver
& R. G. W. R. Co., 328 U. S. 495, 505-509.
The reorganization should be carried out. The order of
the Circuit Judge in directing a stay of the consummation
of the plan is vacated and the order of the District Judge
of October 30, 1946, denying the petition is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

Formally, this is a litigation between private litigants,
creditors quarreling over their share in the capitalization
of a reorganized enterprise. Intrinsically, the case concerns issues of serious public importance. Control of one
of the major railroad systems of the country is at stake.
Disposition of the controversy brings into play considerations of policy on which the Congress and the President
have clearly expressed themselves with relevance to the
problem before the Court.
The peculiar and controlling public aspect of the case
is emphasized by the position taken by the Government.
The Government frequently intervenes as amicus curiae
in so-called private litigation to present the dominant public aspects of such litigation. In the earlier stages of this
litigation the Government was in fact a party of record.
Through one of its agencies, the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation, the Government is itself a creditor. When

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFUSTFE,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

the plan for reorganization, now- ordered to be carried
out, was found by the Circuit Court of Appeals not "fair
and equitable," and justifiably rejected by the general
bondholders whose claims constituted about one-fourth
of the entire debt of the railroad, the Government here
joined the present petitioners in urging reversal of that decision and approval of the plan. See 150 F. 2d 28, and 328
U.S.'495. After such reversal here, the case went back to
the District Court and the present proceedings were begun
for re-examination of the plan. The District Court dismissed these proceedings, but an order by the Circuit
Court of Appeals stayed the execution of the plan until
the court had opportunity to consider an appeal duly
docketed. When a petition for certiorari was filed here
to lift the case out of the Circuit Court of Appeals
before it could be heard, the Government no longer asked
this Court to approve the plan which it had supported
here last March. Instead, the Government bowed itself
out of the case. What has happened to make the Government abstain from standing on the decision which it
obtained here last June? That which has happened constrains me to the view that the Denver and Rio Grande
reorganization plan calls for further scrutiny, and should
not, as matters now stand, be carried out.
What has happened since this Court rendered its decision last June? The Government, in its memorandum
of abstention, states it succinctly and with candor:
"Because of the action of the Congress last Summer
in passing the Bill known as S. 1253 and the reasoning
of the 'President's Memorandum of Disapproval,
dated August 13, 1946, both of which indicated disapproval of certain features of railroad reorganizations approved pursuant to the provisions of Section
77 of the Bankruptcy Act, which is the existing law,
the RFC, as an ageticy of the United States created

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 623
607

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

and existing by virtue of Congressional enactment,
ia not taking any position as to whether the petitions
should be granted."
The decisive change in relevant circumstances, which thus
caused a decisive change of position by the Government
since the case was here originally, is the essential basis for
the debtor-railroad's unsuccessful effort in the.District
Court to secure re-examination of the reorganization plan,
and was presumably the basis for the order of Judge Phil-.
lips in the Circuit Court of Appeals staying proceedings
in the District Court to consummate the plan.
This controlling change in circumstances is dismissed by
the Court with the observation that "the action of Congress in passing S. 1253 . . . was vetoed.

President's

Memorandum of Disapproval, August 13, 1946." But the
decisive consideration is not that the President vetoed the
bill but why he vetoed it. The President left no doubt
regarding the grounds of his veto. In the interest of an
adequate appreciation of them the full text of his Memorandum is made part of this opinion (Appendix I). The
President did not veto the bill because he disapproved its
purposes. He vetoed the bill because it was too weak, in
some of its provisions, for carrying out those purposes.
."By withholding my signature to this bill," wrote President Truman, "I do not intend to indicate that I favor the
pending reorganization plans. I am in agreement with
those objectives of the bill which prevent undesirable control of the railroads, either immediately or within a few
years, and which prevent forfeitures of securities." He
continued: "I believe that the-next Congress can pass a bill
which will meet the stated objections and which will be in
the best interests of the public, the railroads, the bondholders and other creditors, and the stockholders." These
are not merely the views of the President of the United
States. 'They are the views of a President with expert

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

knowledge of the subject, gained through years of active
participation in the most elaborate investigation of railroad reorganizations ever conducted by a Congressional
committee.
The President's veto statement elicited a prompt response from leaders of the Conference Committee out of
which the vetoed bill came. They represented both
Houses and both parties. The statement deserves quotation in full:
"Statement of Members of Congress Regarding
Further Legislation
"The railroad reorganization bill, S. 1253, was the
culmination of over 3 years of intensive effort to save
$2,000,000,000 of investments made by hundreds of
thousands of stockholders and junior bondholders in
railroads now in process of reorganization under section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. Those investments
will be wiped out under pending plans of reorganization unless legislation is enacted to prevent it. This
bill was designed and passed by the Congress primarily for that purpose.
"Those who have supported this legislation will be
definitely heartened by the declaration of principles
contained in the President's memorandum stating
why he withheld his signature from the bill. For it
is clear that the broad principles announced by the
President are shared by the proponents and supporters of this legislation. Broadening of the bill to meet
the requirements of the President's objections can
and will be drafted. Such a bill will be promptly
introduced at the next session of the Congress. As
Congress has already overwhelmingly committed itself to such legislation and the President has declared
that he, too, favors its purposes, the prompt enactment of such a measure appears certain.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO.
607

FRANKFURTER,

625

J., dissenting.

"While this legislation was under consideration in
the committees of the Senate and House, a number of
courts and the Interstate Commerce Commission recognized the appropriateness of cooperating with Congress in meeting this public problem and abstained
from taking steps which would have carried forward
any of the pending reorganization plans under section
77. This was months before the legislation came up
for a vote in either the Senate or House. Now that
the legislation, both in the form in which it was reported by the respective committees of the Senate and
House and in the subsequent form contained in the
conference report, was passed by an overwhelming
vote in each Chamber and the objectives of the legislation have received the approbation of the President,
it is confidently hoped that the courts and the Commission will take no steps in support or furtherance
of pending reorganization plans under section 77, but
will instead await action by the Congress and the
President on legislation giving effect to the principles
favored by both.
CLYDE M. REED.
JAMES M. TUNNELL.
SAM HOBBS.
CHAUNCEY W. REED.
Washington, D. C.,
August 14, 1946."
It is difficult to believe that had the President signed
S. 1253 this Court would have sustained the action of the
District Court in dismissing out of hand the petition for
re-examination of the reorganization plan. The considerations of public policy which underlay that measure
could hardly have been disregarded, for the inequities
of this very reorganization plan were extensively cited
in Congress as demonstrating the need for correction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

This would have been so although Congress did not see fit
to witlidraw entirely the further jurisdiction of the District
Court in these reorganization proceedings. But the
grounds of the President's veto only emphasize these considerations of public policy. They should prompt a court
of equity to stay its hand until further scrutiny of the
plan. The bi-partisan statement of the conference leaders
underwrites the President's formulation of public policy.
Of course, neither the President's hopes nor the confidence
of Congressional leaders insures legislation. But if the
realization of the desires of the President and the expectations of bi-partisan Congressional leaders concerned with
this legislation would affect, as I cannot believe it would
not, the action of a court of equity when asked to enforce
this reorganization plan, the Court ought not to proceed on
the assumption that the legislation as outlined by the
President will not be forthcoming.
We are dealing here not with an ordinary litigation as to
which couirts are exercising conventional judicial authority. The courts are carrying out the legislative mandate
of Congress as to the considerations of public policy by
which the role of the judiciary in railroad reorganization
should be guided. The primary responsibility is lodged
with an agency of Congress, the Interstate Commerce
Commission. This Court's jurisdiction is at once very
limited and novel. If legislation which would make it
the duty of the Court to reconsider the reorganization
plan now before us is really in prospect, only the most
imperative public emergency should require this Court
to engage in a race with the President and Congress in the
disposition of questions of public policy. Cf. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 13 How. 518,
and 18 How. 421.
Moreover, Congressional intention has not been latent
and conjectural since last summer. Legislation, as sug-

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO.
607

FRANKFURTER,

627

J., dissenting.

gested by the President, appears to have every prospect of
prompt consideration in the new Congress. In submitting
a joint bi-partisan resolution (see Appendix II of this
opinion) dealing with railroad reorganizations, after referring to the President's Memorandum of Disapproval
and the Statement of Members of Congress Regarding
Further Legislation, supra, Senator Reed stated that
"preliminary discussions have already been agreed to
with Members of the Hotise, with a view to expediting
this legislation in the Eightieth Congress. It is hoped
that it can be taken up, in a preliminary stage, with
the White House so that the greatest possible speed
can be secured for the legislation to be finally enacted
in the Eightieth Congress."
The Court rightly assumes that neither this Court nor
the District Court is concluded by what was decided here
last June. Changed circumstances, of course, may require the re-examination of a plan by the Interstate Commerce Commission. First and last, this is a proceeding
in equity, and until a decree consummating a plan of reorganization is finally signed it is the duty of a court of
equity not to make of itself an instrument of inequity.
Peculiarly is this so where the paramount interest is that of
the public, though the formal litigation is carried on by private parties. In such a situation we are not restricted to
the specific claims of the formal litigants. We are not restricted to the limited specific financial factors which, in
the debtor's opinion, have affected the situation since last
June. The decisive issues are those posed by the Congress and the President. The real question before the
Court is whether, in the light of events since its prior decision, there is a solid basis for the judgment which we are
asked to enforce. To be sure, even in a court of equity
a matter once adjudicated should not be relitigated even
though the litigation is still open, as it always is until

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

there is a final decree. Usually reconsideration of an
interim determination because of "changed conditions"
implies new events in nature. But new understanding
of old facts or hitherto unexplored relevant facts
may constitute the most significant kind of change in
circumstances.
The essence of the matter before the Court is this. We
are asked to give our imprimatur to a plan of far-reaching
implications to the public interest, in that it concerns the
control of one of the major railroad systems of the nation.
That plan was born of the confused uncertainties of the
war years, after a long period of incubation and many
changes. Judgment often involves prophecy, and all
prophecy has an element of guesswork. But guessing can
be less rather than more. How much guesswork is involved in this plan has been candidly indicated by members of the Interstate Commerce Commission. To expect
a "normal" period, in the sense of assured stability, for a
good stretch ahead is doubtless to pursue a will-o'-thewisp. But the President's message pointed to factors to
which certainly no adequate attention has thus far been
paid in these proceedings.
The President spoke of the "evil, present in reorganizations under section 77, of permitting improper control of
railroads after their reorganization." Repeatedly he referred to this vital aspect of the public interest, the protection of which requires "that reorganizations shall place
control of railroads in persons primarily concerned with
transportation for the communities served and for the nation as a whole, without any strings direct or indirect, conditional or otherwise, to institutions or others in distant
financial centers."
Here is certainly a matter of prime relevance in ascertaining whether this reorganization plan should be given
final judicial sanction. The control of this major railroad
system is to pass into the hands of the so-called insurance

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 629
607

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

group in New York and its two largest lending national
banks. The directions in which insurance companies have
in the past exerted their power over the railroads of the
country are not calculated to give confidence in future control by them. The geographical and functional remoteness of powerful financial interests in New York, in relation to a railroad system operating in Colorado and Utah,
bars that single-minded attentiveness and pioneering
enterprise which characterized great railroad men like
Edward H. Harriman, James J. Hill and Daniel Willard.
Another ground of President Truman's dissatisfaction
with S. 1253 was its -failure to deal adequately with the
"grossly excessive interest rates now wasting the funds of
the railroads in section 77 proceedings." To be sure, the
Interstate Commerce Commission was not unmindful of
the present lowinterest levels when it approved the 1943
reorganization plan. It is safe to say, however, that the
significance of the sharp drop in interest levels has recently
been made more manifest and further inquiry would lay
it bare.
Finally, the President seemed much concerned by needless forfeitures under reorganization plans. In all discussions in Congress, the plan before us was given as a conspicuous example. The avoidance of forfeitures does not
involve large capitalizations. It is to be avoided in other
ways, such as calling for tenders of bonds by bondholders
and their purchase by court trustees at the below-par
prevailing market prices.
On two of these important aspects of sound financing in
railroad reorganizations, proper interest rates and what
has been called "the painless reorganization of the railroad
debt structure," (see speech of Senator Vandenberg, August 3, 1939, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 84 Cong. Rec. 11127),
the record here is slender indeed, if not barren.
Here are lines of crucial public interest to which the
Congress and the President have called authoritative at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

tention since the case was last here. These are matters on
which the Court should satisfy itself on its own initiative
whether or not private litigants have adequately presented them. The Court is not passing merely on specific'
issues framed by the parties or on the narrow claims on
which the parties press for reconsideration. Abstractly,
no one will reject what the President has called the principle that "reorganizations must give primary consideration
to the public interest." But that public interest is in the
keeping of the courts.

It must be safeguarded by them

without regard to the manner in which those who have also
private interests represent the public interest.
And what consideration is more compelling than. that
this reorganization be re-examined by the Interstate Commerce Commission in the light of the vast changes of the
transforming six years since the Interstate Commerce
Commission closed its record in this case, particularly in
light of the scrutiny which these reorganizations have received from the Congress and the President since this
Court last considered the case? There is no suggestion
that the interests of the railroad, or the public that it
serves, or its creditors, will suffer by the delay necessary to
explore further these basic issues before turning its control
over to distant financial institutions. No one has suggested that this railroad has not served the public "effectively while under court control, or that it cannot continue
to do so until full inquiry dissipates the heavy clouds of.
doubt resting over this reorganization. To be sure, the
road has been in reorganization since 1935. But it took
four years for the formulation of the first reorganization
plan and another four to formulate the additional-plans.
What Judge Learned Hand recently said of another situation is here applicable: "there can be considerations more
imperative than the despatch of judicial business, even
after delays so long as existed in this case. If the legally
protected interests of any opposing parties are fully pre-

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 631
607

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

served, it is not a good reason to deny others any reasonable chance to protect their own interests that they have
been long in asserting them." Knight v. Wertheim & Co.,
158 F. 2d 838, 844. Surely the protection of the public
interest in the special keeping of the Court is more imperative, than the despatch of judicial business, and no legally
protected interest of those to whom the financial control of
this road has been awarded can possibly suffer by full inquiry asto whether the paramount public interest has been
properly safeguarded.
APPENDIX I.
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL.

I am withholding my approval of S. 1253, entitled "An
Act to enable debtor railroad corporations, whose properties during a period of seven years have provided sufficient earnings to pay fixed charges, to effect a readjustment of their financial structures; to alter or modify their
financial obligations; and for other purposes."
Even though I am familiar with the deficiencies and
inequities and the evils that exist under section 77 of*the
present Bankruptcy Act, I fear that this new bill would
not accomplish the purpose for which it was intended.
The bill contains two sections, the first ot which contemplates the prevention of bankruptcy proceedings where
practicable: the second contemplates the reorganization of
certain railroad carriers by the institution of proceedings
under section 1 of the bill for readjustment of their
financial affairs.
Objections which I have to the bill include the following:
The bill fails to direct specifically the immediate reduction of the grossly excessive interest rates now wasting
the funds of the railroads in section 77 proceedings. Millions of dollars per year can be saved at once for each of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANxFURTR,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

the railroads in section 77 proceedings, by reducing the
interest rates on their bonds and other debt down to the
level of the interest rates paid by railroads not in section
77 proceedings. I reiterate a statement which I made in
my message to Congress on the state of the Union which
is as follows, "low interest rates will be an important force
in promoting the full production and full employment
in the post-war period for which we are all striving."
The bill does not adequately cure the evil, present in
reorganizations under section 77, of permitting improper
control of railroads after their reorganization.
The bill fails to provide full protection against forfeiture
of securities and investments.
The level of fees and expenses in reorganization cases
under section 77 has been excessive. This is not corrected
in this bill. Affirmative provisions to curb this evil and to
bring it under strict control should be included in any bill
which may be enacted.
The hill excludes from its benefits certain railroads
which should be brought within its provisions if it is to
become law. In this regard it appears that the fifty million dollar limitation in section 2 of the bill would exclude some railroads for whose exclusion there appears to
be no logical justification.
This bill fails to correct a serious abuse which I condemned in the course of the Senate railroad investigation.
I refer to the abuse of diverting, under cover of a reorganization plan, the funds of a railroad for the purchase of its
own stocks in the market.
On the other hand, the bill does incorporate principles
for which I was one of the sponsors in the Senate. I commend particularly the emphasis which the bill places on
the principle that reorganizations must give primary consideration to the public interest, and to the best interests
of the railroads which are being reorganized.

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO.
607

FRANKFURTER,

633

J., dissenting.

This requires among other things that reorganizations
shall place control of railroads in persons primarily concerned with transportation for the communities served and
for the nation as a whole, without any strings direct or indirect, conditional or otherwise, to institutions or others
in distant financial centers.
Such regard for the public interest will also help the
stockholders, whether they be railroad employees who
have invested in the stocks of the companies for which
they work, or ordinary investors, desirous of safeguarding
their investment, but not of helping any interest to capture control of their railroad. These stockholders, whom
the bill justly seeks to protect against forfeiture, can and
should get such protection, but without enabling any
financial interest to use such legislation to acquire
control.
By withholding my signature to this bill I do not intend
to indicate that I favor the pending reorganization plans.
I am in agreement with those objectives of the bill which
prevent undesirable control of the railroads, either immediately or within a few years, and which prevent forfeitures
of securities.
I believe that the next Congress can pass a bill which
will meet the stated objections and which will be in the
best interests of the public, the railroads, the bondholders
and other creditors, and the stockholders.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 13, 1946.
APPENDIX II.
(S. Res. 65, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., Jan. 22, 1947, Cong. Rec. p. 543.)

Whereas many railroads in the continental United
States are in the hands of receivers and trustees because

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

of insolvency proceedings brought under section 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act, or through equity court procedure;
and
Whereas the mileage of these railroads is approximately
forty thousand, and the investment in road and equipment
amounts to several billion dollars; and
Whereas many of these roads entered bankruptcy in
1933, 1934, 1935, or 1936, 10 to 14 years ago, and the earnings of these roads in recent years have been sufficient to
accumulate large cash amounts, and have placed such
roads in a solvent position; and
Whereas, according to the best information available,
court proceedings involving some very important railroads are in such a condition that it is difficult if not impossible to approximate the time when reorganization
under section 77 will be completed, and it is feasible for a
number of these roads to retire part of their indebtedness,
at a discount, and to refund or extend the maturity date of
the balance of their indebtedness, and it further appears
desirable to discharge such railroads from bankruptcy proceedings without the necessity of drastic reorganizations
under section 77; and
Whereas the continued holding of roads that have become solvent in trustee or receiver operation as insolvent
roads, and further efforts to reorganize, under section 77,
railroads which no longer need such reorganization, are
contrary to the general public interest and contrary to
sound public policy; and
Whereas the President of the United States has joined
with Congress in going on record in favor of modifications
of present reorganization legislation and in favor of the
principles proposed by the appropriate committees of the
Senate and House of Representatives in 1946, and in favor
of the principles enacted by Congress in 1946, and the
President has further urged the strengthening of such pro-

INSURANCE GROUP v. D. & R. G. W. R. CO. 635
07

FRANKFURTR,

J., dissenting.

posals and the adoption of further provisions to carry out
those general principles: Therefore be it
Resolved, That the Committee on Interstate Commerce
of the Senate is authorized and directed either as a committee, or through a duly constituted subcommittee, to
make an investigation of the conditions surrounding the
operation and handling of said railroads by trustees and
receivers through the period of receivership or trusteeship;
to ascertain the extent to which there should be elimination or reduction of any of the exceptions heretofore proposed to legislation on this subject; to inquire into the
causes for the failures, (a) to reduce the interest rates of
railroads in receivership and bankruptcy proceedings; (b)
to arrange for the reduction of the rates of interest payable
by such railroads on their outstanding indebtedness; (c) to
arrange for the refunding and extension of maturity dates
of part or all of the indebtedness of such railroads while
in the hands of the courts; (d) to call for the tender of
bonds and the purchase of bonds of such railroads either at
a discount or otherwise, by the receivers or trustees, out of
funds in their hands; (e) to discharge such railroads from
court proceedings without the necessity of being subjected
to drastic reorganization under section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act; and (f) to return such railroads to their owners as promptly as possible; to investigate the fees paid
trustees, receivers, counsel, bankers or bank syndicates,
committees and experts, and any and all matters relating
thereto, and to ascertain the methods of reducing reorganization expenses and the possibility of eliminating, by discharge of railroads without further reorganization proceedings under section 77, the necessity for any further
reorganization expenses under elaborate and therefore
costly reorganization proceedings; to ascertain what legislative methods can be provided to enable railroads now
undergoing reorganization to obtain management local to

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

329 U. S.

their lines of operation and to the communities, shippers,
and passengers they serve, and to enable the owners of
such railroads to secure control free from domination by
interests which have not received the affirmative and express vote of the security holders subsequent to reorganization; to ascertain what voluntary methods and steps
additional to those proposed in legislation adopted by the
Seventy-ninth Congress on this subject will be useful in
expediting the discharge of railroads from costly bankruptcy and reorganization proceedings without the necessity of drastic reorganizations under section 77, and to permit reorganization by voluntary proceedings in a businesslike manner and on a businesslike basis; to ascertain what
methods and procedures, additional to those provided in
legislation passed by the Seventy-ninth Congress on this
subject, will be useful for the protection of railroad employees and other investors in the stocks of the railroads.
The committee is directed to report to the Senate as
early as practicable, with such recommendations as to
changes in existing law as may be found desirable.
For the purposes of this resolution, the committee, or
any duly authorized subcommittee thereof, is authorized
to hold such hearings, to sit and act at such times and
places during the sessions, recesses, and adjourned periods
of the Eightieth Congress, to employ such clerical and
other assistants, to require by subpena or otherwise the
attendance of such witnesses and the production of such
correspondence, books, papers, and documents, to administer such oaths, to take such testimony,'and to make such
expenditures, as it deems advisable. The cost of stenographic services to report such hearings shall not be in
excess of 25 cents per 100 words.

