FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
207

Syllabus.

actually paid. In some instances there was a subsequent
adjustment of the price to conform to the price ceiling for
the grade actually shipped. But in others there was not.
And bearing on the integrity of the system were two other
facts--(1) the debits made followed the OPA investigation; (2) the inflated prices were not disclosed on Bruno's
books. In a seller's market upgrading may be a convenient device for black market operations. As the Circuit
Court of Appeals noted, when paper is scarce the seller
may send not what is ordered but what he has, on the
assumption that manufacturers will be glad to take any
kind of paper they can get. In view of the inadequacy
of the supply, buyers cannot always be expected to reject
upgraded shipments or insist upon price adjustments.
The facts of this case sustain that theory, for in two instances no price adjustment was sought or made. In view
of all the circumstances, the jury could well conclude that
the system adopted by Bruno was designed to bring him
more for the goods than was lawful.
'Reversed..
FISWICK ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.,
CERTIORARJ TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 19, 20, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.

1. Petitioners and others were indicted for conspiracy to defraud the

United States in violation of § 37 of the Criminal Code. The indict-ment charged that petitioners conspired with each other, and with

others, to defraud the United States by concealing and misrepresenting their membership in the Nazi party. The last overt act
alleged to- have been committed by any of the petitioners was the
filing by one of them of a registration statement under the Alien
Registration Act of 1940, in which he falsely failed to disclose his
connection with and activities in the Nazi party. Held thai the
conspiracy charged and proved did not extend beyond the date of
the last overt act, and that admittance in evidence against all of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

329 U. S.

petitioners of admissions made after that date by one of the petitioners was reversible error. Pp. 215-220.
(a) Though the result of a conspiracy may be continuing, the
conspiracy is not a continuing one unless there is continuous cooperation of the conspirators to produce the unlawful result. P. 216.
(b) An overt act being necessary to complete the offense of
conspiracy under § 37 of the Criminal Code, the overt acts averred
and proved may mark the duration, as well as the scope, of the
conspiracy.. P. 216.
(c) The conspiracy charged and proved did not extend beyond
the date of the last overt act (the filing of the false registration
statement) and the subsequent admissions of each defendant were
against the others. P. 217.
improperly
(d) Whileemployed
the act of one conspirator is admissible against the
others, if it is in furtherance of the criminal undertaking, all such
responsibility ends when the conspiracy ends. P. 217.
(e) Confession or admission'by one co-conspirator after he was
apprehended was not in furtherance of the conspiracy to deceive
the Government but had the effect of terminating the conspiracy,
so far as he was concerned, and made his admissions inadmissible
against his erstwhile fellow-conspirators. P. 217.
(f) It cannot be said with fair assurance in this case that the jury
was not substantially swayed by the use of these admissions against
all defendants and, therefore, it cannot be considered a "harmless
error" within the contemplation of § 269 of the Judicial Code.
Kotteakos v. United States, 328 U. S. 750. Pp. 217-220.
2. The fact that his sentence of imprisonment has been served does
not render moot a review of the conviction of an alien under § 37
of the Criminal Code for conspiring to file a false registration statement under the Alien Registration Act and to conceal from the
Government his membership in the Nazi party, since the conviction may weaken his defense to a deportation proceeding under
8 U. S. C. § 155, impair his chances of naturalization under 8
U. S. C. § 707 (a) (3), and subject him to the loss of certain civil
rights. Pp. 220-223.
153 F. 2d 176, reversed.
Petitioners were convicted under § 37 of the Criminal

Code of conspiring to defraud the United States in the
exercise of its governmental functions by filing false registration statements under the Alien Registration Act of

1940, 54 Stat. 670, 8 U. S. C. § 451 et 8eq., and concealing

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
211

Opinion of the Court.

their membership in the Nazi party. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 153 F. 2d 176. This Court granted
certiorari. 327 U. S. 776. Reversed, p. 223.
FredericM. P. Pearse argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.
Leon Ulman argued the cause for the United States.
With-him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington and Robert S. Erdahl.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Alien Registration Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 670, 8
U. S. C. § 451 et seq., required aliens, with certain exceptions, to register pursuant to regulations of the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.' Among the
disclosures required was whether during the preceding five
years the alien had been "affiliated with or active in (a
member of, 'official of, a worker for) organizations, devoted in whole or in part to influencing or furthering the
political activities, public relations, or public policy of a
foreign government." 2
Petitioners are German nationals who registered under
the Act, the last of the three, Mayer, registering on December 23, 1940. Each stated when he registered that he was
not affiliated with or active in such an organization. Each
failed to disclose, in answer to another question pertaining
to "memberships or activities in clubs, organizations, or
societies," that he was in any way connected with the Nazi
party. They were indicted in 1944 with 28 others for
conspiring to defraud the United States in the exercise of
its governmental functions (see Curley v. United States,
130 F. 1, 4) in violation of § 37 of the Criminal Code,
18 U. S. C. §88.

ISee 5 Fed. Reg. 2836 for the regulations.
2

Regulations, supra, note 1, § 29.4 (1) (15).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The indictment charges that petitioners continuously
between September 1, 1939, and the date the indictment
was returned, September 13, 1944, conspired with each
other and with Draeger, the German consul in New York
City and leader of the Nazi party in this country, with
Draeger's secretary, Vogel, and with other representatives
of the Third Reich, to defraud the United States by concealing and misrepresenting their membership in the Nazi
party. It charges that since 1933 the Nazi party was
devoted to furthering the political activities and policy of
the German Reich in this country, that each petitioner
during the five years prior to his registration was a member of that party, that Draeger and Vogel directed petitioners in registering under the Act to conceal and falsify
their connection with the Nazi party, that petitioners
followed such directions, that after their registration they
continued from day to day to misrepresent to the Government their connection with and activities in the Nazi
party. The indictment alleges that, as a means of accomplishing the conspiracy, the petitioners appeared for registration and in registering falsely failed to disclose their
connection with and activities in the Nazi party. The
indictment sets forth forty overt acts. Many related to
instructions given by Draeger and Vogel to various defendants from September to December 1940, in connection
with their registration. Others related to the registering
by petitioners in November and December, 1940. The
last overt act alleged to have been committed by any of
petitioners was the filing by Mayer of his registration
statement on December 23, 1940.
Of the 31 indicted, only the three petitioners were convicted after a jury trial. Fiswick and Rudolph were sen-.
3 Six entered pleas of gt f.
There was a dismissal as to one, a
severance as to fourteen. Ten were tried. The jury acquitted three
and disagreed as to the other four.

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
211

215

Opinion of the Court.

tenced to imprisonment for eighteen months each. Mayer
was sentenced to imprisonment for a year and a day. The
judgments of conviction were affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting. 153 F. 2d 176.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because the rulings of the lower courts on the
continuing nature of the conspiracy were apparently in
conflict with decisions of this Court. See United States v.
Irvine, 98 U. S.450; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S.
601.
First. The nature and duration of the conspiracy assumed great importance at the trial for the following reason. Each petitioner after he was apprehended made
damaging statements to agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. Mayer, in November, 1943, stated that he
had applied for membership in the Nazi party and
had not disclosed the fact because Vogel told him not to.
Fiswick's statement made in April, 1944, was to the same
effect. Rudolph made substantially the same admissions
in November, 1943, and then in September, 1944, retracted
them insofar as he had said that in registering under the
Act and in failing to disclose his Nazi party affiliation he
had followed instructions. His later reason for non-disclosure was his asserted desire to protect his family. Each
of these statements was admitted at the trial. At first,
each was admitted only as against the maker. At the close
of the Government's case, however, the District Court
ruled that each of these statements was admissible against
each of the other co-conspirators. It so charged the jury.
Later the jury returned to the courtroom for further instructions. One of the questions on which the foreman
stated that they desired instruction related to that part
of the charge "where you said something about all of the
defendants were bound by the act of one or something,
something as a group, and the other said the individuals."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The judge then repeated that the admissions of each were
admissible against all provided there was a conspiracy and
they were all in it.
The Solicitor General now rightly concedes that that
ruling was erroneous. Though the result of a conspiracy
may be continuing, the conspiracy does not thereby become a, continuing one. See United States v. Irvine,
supra. Continuity of action to produce the unlawful
result, or as stated in United States v. Kissel, supra, p. 607,
"continuous codperation of the conspirators to keep it up,"
is necessary. A conspiracy is a partnership in crime.
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S.150,
253. Under § 37 of the Criminal Code, the basis of the
present indictment, an overt act is necessary to complete
the offense.' The statute of limitations, unless suspended,' runs from the last overt act during the existence
of the conspiracy. Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S.392, 401.
The overt acts averred and proved may thus mark the
duration, as well as the scope, of the conspiracy.
In this case the last overt act, as we have noted, was
the filing by Mayer of his registration statement on
December 23, 1940. That act was adequate As an overt
act in furtherance of a conspiracy to make a false return.
But there is difficulty in also making it serve the function
of an overt act in furtherance of a conspiracy to conceal
from 1940 to 1944 the fact that false returns had been
'At common law it was not necessary to aver or prove an overt act.
See Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S.347, 359. The same is true
under the Sherman Act. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 378;
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., supra, p. 252. But § 37 of
the Criminal Code requires not only an agreement to do the unlawful
act but also the doing of "any act to effect the object of the conspiracy." See Hyde v.United States, supra, p. 359.
5See, for example, § 1 of the Act of August 24, 1942, 56 Stat. 747,
18 U. S. C. Supp. II, § 590a, as amended by § 19 (b) of the Act of
July 1, 1944, 58 Stat. 649, 667, 18 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 590a.

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
211

Opinion of the Court.

made. All continuity of action ended with the last overt
act in December, 1940. There was no overt act, f concealment which followed the act of making false statements. If the latter is permitted to do double duty, then
a continuing result becomes a continuing conspiracy. If,
as we think, the conspiracy charged and proved did not extend beyond the date of the last overt act, the admissions
of each petitioner were improperly employed against the
others. While the act of one partner in crime is admissible
against the others where it is in furtherance of the criminal undertaking, Pinkerton v. United States, 328 U. S.
640, 646-647, and cases cited, all such responsibility is at
an end when the conspiracy ends. Logan v. United States,
144 U. S. 263, 309; Brown v. UnitedStates, 150 U: S. 93,98.
Moreover, confession or admission by one co-conspirator
after he has been apprehended is not in any sense a furtherance of the criminal enterprise. It is rather a frustration
of it. If, as the Circuit Court of Appeals thought, the
maintenance of the plot to deceive the Government was
the objective of this conspiracy, the admissions made to
the officers ended it. So far as each conspirator who confessed was concerned, the plot was then terminated. He
thereupon ceased to act in the role of a conspirator. His
admissions were therefore not admissible against his erstwhile fellow-conspirators. Gambino v. United States, 108,
F. 2d 140, 142-143.
It is earnestly argued, however, that the error was harmless. The "harmless error" statute. (Judicial Code §269,
28 U. S. C. § 391) provides that "On the hearing of any
appeal, certiorari, or motion for a new trial, in any case,
civil or criminal, the court shall give judgment after an
examination of the entire record before the court, without
regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do
not affect the substantial rights of the parties." We have
recently reviewed the history of this statute and the func-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

tion it was designed to serve in criminal cases. Kotteakos
v. United States, 328 U. S. 750. The Court there stated,
pp. 764-765:
"If, when all is said and done, the conviction is sure
that the error did not influence the jury, or had but
very slight effect, the verdict and the judgment should
stand, except perhaps where the departure is from a
constitutional norm or a specific command of
ngress. ....
But'if one cannot say, with fair assurance, after pondering all that happened without stripping the erroneous action from the whole, that the
judgment was not substantially swayed by the error,
it is impossible to conclude that substantial rights
were not affected. The inquiry cannot be merely
whether there was enough to support the result, apart
from the phase affected by the error. It is rather,
even so, whether the error itself had substantial influence. If so, or if one is left in grave doubt, the
conviction cannot stand."
We cannot say with fair assurance in this case that the
jury was not substantially swayed by the use of these admissions against all petitioners. It is not enough to say
that there may be a strong case made out against each
petitioner. The indictment charges a conspiracy, not the
substantive crime of falsely registering. The evidence that
petitioners conspired with each other and with Draeger,
Vogel, and others, is not strong. Though we assume there
was enough evidence to go to the jury on the existence of
that conspiracy, the case was one which a prosecutor
would be anxious to bolster.
The prosecutor's case, apart from the admissions, may
be briefly summarized. Draeger and Vogel were active in
the affairs of the Nazi party in -this, country. Their stenographer, a government witness, testified that applications for membership in the party were received at their

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
211

Opinion of the Court.

office. Dues were paid there. A card file of members of
the party and of applicants for membership was kept there.
The name of each petitioner was on the list. A letter was
sent to all on the list in August or September, 1940, over
Draeger's signature, requesting them to discuss a matter
with Draeger. Those who appeared in response to the
letter were told to conceal their Nazi party membership or
affiliation when they registered under the Act. Another
witness for the Government-a defendant in the case who
was granted a severance-also testified that Vogel gave
instructions to party members not to disclose their affiliation with the Nazi party. And a clerk in Draeger's office
testified for the Government that the party members who
came to the consulate were told to say in their registration statements that they were members of an innocuoussounding association of German nationals. There was no
evidence that petitioners came to the consulate seeking
advice. There was no direct evidence that petitioners had
received the instructions from the consulate to conceal
their party membership. There was no direct evidence
that petitioners came to the consulate in response to the
letter which was sent. They were not identified as being
with any group which called there. There was no evidence
that they conferred with Draeger or Vogel or with each
other.
The Solicitor General states with commendable candor
that in this state of the proof it was manifestly important for the prosecutor "to bring into the case against
petitioners evidence of a character that might better convince the jury that when each failed to reveal his Party
connection in registering he had done so upon Party
instructions, and, hence, that he was a member of the
conspiracy." The admissions served that purpose. They
supplied the first direct evidence that petitioners acted
pursuant to the instructions of the consulate. It is true,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

as respondent emphasizes, that none of these admissions
implicates any petitioner except the maker. But since, if
there was a conspiracy, Draeger and Vogel were its hub,
evidence which brought each petitioner into the circle was
the only evidence which cemented them together in the
illegal project. And when the jury was told that the
admissions of one, though not implicating the others,
might be used against all, the element of concert of action
was strongly bolstered, if not added. Without the admissions, the jury might well have concluded that there were
three separate conspiracies, not one. Cf. Kotteakos v.
United States, supra. With the admissions, the charge
of conspiracy received powerful reinforcement. And the
charge that each petitioner conspired with the others
became appreciably stronger, not from what he said but
from what the other two said. We therefore cannot say
with any confidence that the error in admitting each of
these statements against the other petitioners did not
influence the jury or had only a sligJit effect. Indeea, the
admissions may well have been crucial. The admissions
apparently became of considerable importance in the
deliberations of the jury, for, as we have noted, they asked
for clarification of the instructions on that point. And the
admissions so strongly bolstered a weak case that it is
impossible for us to conclude the error can be disregarded
under the "harmless error" statute. The use made of the
admissions at the trial constituted reversible error.
Second. A further question remains. As we have noted,
Fiswick was sentenced to imprisonment for 18 months.
No fine was imposed. It now appears that he has served
his sentence. Accordingly, it is suggested that the cause
is moof and that the writ of certiorari should be dismissed
as to him. We followed that procedure in St. Pierre v.
United States, 319 U. S. 41, 42, saying that since the
sentence had been served, "there was no longer a sub-

FISWICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

211

ject matter on which the judgment of this Court could
operate." We added, however, that the petitioner had not
shown that "under either state or federal law further penalties or disabilities can be imposed on him as a result
of the judgment which has now been satisfied." P. 43.
The situation here is different. Fiswick is an alien.
An alien sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more
"because of conviction in this country of a crime involving
moral turpitude" is, unless pardoned, subject to deportation if the crime was committed within five years after
the alien's entry into the United States. 39 Stat. 874, 889,
8 U. S. C. § 155. The conspiracy with which Fiswick is
charged was formed and executed within that five-year
period, as his last entry was in 1937. The conspiracy of
which he was convicted was one to impede the Government
in one of its lawful functions, to prevent it from obtaining
information which the Executive and Congress deemed
vital to our internal security, to conceal by fraud, deceit,
and perjury 6 the ramifications of an organization in our
midst bent on our undoing. We need not determine in
this collateral way whether conviction for, such a crime
would involve "moral turpitude" within the meaning of
the deportation laws.' But the judgment, if undisturbed,
stands as unimpeachable evidence that Fiswick com-

6The registration statements required by the Act were sworn statements.

Regulations, supra note 1, § 29.4 (g), (j).

I Convictions for perjury, Kaneda v. United States, 278 F. 694, for
frauds on the revenues, Guarneri v. Kessler, 98 F. 2d 580, United
States v. Reimer, 113 F. 2d 429, for frauds with respect to property,
United States v. Burmaster, 24 F. 2d. 57, have been held by the lower
courts to meet that test. And counterfeiting was so classified by the
Court in United States v. Smith, 289 U. S. 422. As to deportation for

violations of the Alien Registration Act of 1940 see § 20 (b) (4) and
(5). See also Alien Enemy Act of 1798, Rev. Stat. 4067-4070, as
amended 40 Stat. 531, 50 U. S. C. §§ 21-24; Presidential Proclamation
No. 2655, 10 Fed. Reg. 8947.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

mitted the crime charged. The hazards of deportation
because of that fact are real.' To leave him to defend a
deportation order on the ground that the crime of which
he was convicted did not involve "moral turpitude" is to
add to his burdens by depriving him of his best defense-that he was not properly convicted.
Moreover, other disabilities or burdens may' flow from
the judgment, improperly obtained, if we dismiss this
case as moot and let the conviction stand. If Fiswick
seeks naturalization, he must establish that during the
five years immediately preceding the date of filing his
petition for naturalization he "has been and still is a person of good moral character." 54 Stat. 1137, 1142, 8
U. S. C. § 707 (a) (3). An outstanding judgment of conviction for this crime stands as ominous proof that he did
what was charged and puts beyond his reach any showing
of ameliorating circumstances or explanatory matter that
might remove part or all of the curse. And, even though
he succeeded in being naturalized, he would, unless pardoned, carry through life the disability of a felon; ' and by
reason of that fact he might lose certain civil rights."°
Thus Fiswick has a substantial stake in the judgment of
conviction which survives the satisfaction of the sentence
imposed on him. In no practical sense, therefore, can
Fiswick's case be said to be moot.
8 Although deportation is not technically a criminal punishment,
it may visit great hardship on the alien. Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S.
135, 147. As stated by the' Court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Brandeis, in Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284, deportation
may result in the loss "of all that makes life worth living."
9 "All offenses which may be punished by death or imprisonment
for a term exceeding one year shall be deemed felonies." Criminal
Code § 335, 18 U. S. C. § 541.
10 Thus Mo. Rev. Stats. Ann. § 4561 renders such person incompetent to serve on a jury and forever disqualifies him from voting or
holding office, unless pardoned.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v, WOKO.
211

223

Syllabus.

It is said, however, that, having served his sentence, Fiswick may not be resentenced on a new trial and that, if
his conviction is reversed, he thereby escapes deportation.
The argument is that he thwarts the deportation policy
by electing to serve his sentence. We cannot assume,
however, that Fiswick is guilty of the conspiracy charged.
He was not accorded the trial to which he is entitled under
our system of government. The conviction which he suffered was not in accordance with law. The errors in the
trial impeach the conviction; and he must stand in the
position of any man who has been accused of a crime but
not yet shown to have committed it. To dismiss his case
as moot would permit the Government to compound its
error at Fiswick's expense. That course does not comport
with our standards of law enforcement.
Reversed.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
WOKO, INC.

COMMISSION v.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 65. Argued November 22, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
A corporation, which had operated a radio station for some years and
appeared to have rendered public service of acceptable quality and
to be able to continue, was denied a renewal of its license by the
Federal Communications Commission on the ground that it could
not be entrusted with the responsibilities of a licensee, because the
Commission found that it had misrepresented the true ownership
of its capital stock in applications and testimony before the Commission over a period of years. Held:
1. The denial of the license was not unlawful, arbitrary or capricious within the meaning of 47 U. S. C. § 402 (e), providing for
judicial review, even though the Commission failed to find that the
concealment was of material facts or had influenced the Commission
in making any decision or that it would have acted differently had it
known the true facts. Pp. 226, 227.

