230

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 40. Argued October 18, 1946.-Decided December 9,1946.
1. Under § 1 of the Condemnation Act of August 1, 1888, authorizing
any officer of the Government authorized to procure real estate for
the erection of a public building to acquire the same for the United
States by condemnation "whenever in his opinion it is necessary or
advantageous to the Government to do so," and the Public Buildings Act of May 25, 1926, as amended, authorizing the Federal
Works Administrator to acquire by condemnation "such sites . . .
as he may deem necessary" for post offices and other public buildings, the Federal Works Administrator was authorized to acquire by
condemnation land held in trust and used by a city for such public
purposes as those of a local park, courthouse, city hall and Public
library-after it had been selected jointly by him and the Postmaster General as a site for a post office. Pp. 242, 247-248.
2. Far removed from the time and circumstances that led to the
enactment of these statutes in 1888 and 1926, this Court must be
slow to read into them today unexpressed limitations restricting the
authority of the officials named in the Acts as the ones upon whom
Congress chose to rely. P. 236.
3. The fact that the site in question is held in trust instead of in fee
and is already being used by a governmental subdivision of a State
for public purposes impressed upon it by private owners over a
century ago cainot prevent its condemnation by the United States
as a means of carrying out an admittedly federal governmental
function. Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367. Pp. 236-242.
(a) If the United States has determined its need for certain lands
for a tpublic use that is within its federal sovereign powers, it must
have the right to appropriate that land. P. 236.
(b) Decisions of federal representatives as to the means of carrying out an admittedly federal governmental function cannot be subordinated to those of individual grantors or local officials. P. 239.
(c) A decree of condemnation will dispose of any defects in the
title which otherwise might exist" because of the fact that the land
is now held in trust for other purposes than that for which the
Government acquires it. P. 239.

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

231

Statement of the Case.

4. The considerations that made it appropriate for the Constitution
to declare that the Constitution of the United States and the'laws
of the United States made in pursuance thereof shall be the supreme
law of the land make it appropriate to recognize that the power of
eminent domain, when exercised by Congress within its constitutional powers, be equally supreme. Stockton v. Baltimore &
N. Y. R. Co., 32 F. 9, 19. P. 240.
5. The officials designated by Congress have been authorized by Congress to use their best judgment in selecting post office sites. P. 242.
6. If the officials so designated have used such judgment, in good faith,
in selecting the proposed park site in spite of its conflicting local
uses, the Federal Works Administrator has express authority to
direct the condemnation of that site. P. 242.
7. The judgment exercised by the designated officials in selecting this
site out of 22 sites suggested, and out of two closely balanced alternatives, constituted an administrative and legislative decision not
subject to judicial review on its merits. Pp. 242, 243.
8. The Acts do not exclude from the consideration of the designated
officials this or other sites, the selection of which might interfere
with local governmental functions. P. 243.
9. The procedure followed in making the selection of the site in this
case showed extraordinary effort to arrive at a fair and reasoned
conclusion and the record contains no basis for a finding that the
designated officials acted in bad faith or so "capriciously and arbitrarily" that their action was without adequate determining
principle or was unreasoned, in any sense which would invalidate
the selection made under any construction of the Acts here involved.
Pp. 243-248.
10. The comparative desirability of and necessity for the site were
matters- for legislative or administrative determination rather than
for a judicial finding. Pp. 247, 248.
151 F. 2d 881, reversed.

The United States petitioned a District Court to condemn as a site for a post office and customhouse certain
land in a city which the city held in trust and used for
public purposes as a local park, courthouse, city hall, and
public library. An heir of the grantor in trust contested
the petition. The District Court found that 'she had no

interest permitting her to do so and entered a prelim-

inary decree in favor of the United States.

The Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Court of Appeals held that she did have a special interest
entitling her to object to the property being taken for a
purpose destructive of the public use to which it had been
dedicated by her ancestors, and remanded the case for
further proceedings. 135 F. 2d 196. On retrial, the District Court held that the selection of the site amounted to
an "arbitrary and unnecessary act" and dismissed the petition. 55 F. Supp. 555. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed on the ground that the Federal Works Administrator and the Postmaster General lacked authority "to
take the particular land sought to be condemned." 151
F. 2d 881. This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 775.
Reversed, p. 248.
John J. Cooney argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the'brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Assistant Attorney General Bazelon, Roger P. Marquis
and Dwight D. Doty.
I. R. Kelso argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief were Homer Hall and Robt. D. Abbott.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This proceeding was instituted by the United States to
condemn land as a site for a post office and customhouse in
the City of Cape Girardeau, Missouri, in reliance upon several federal statutes, including the general Condemnation
Act of August 1, 1888, and the Public Buildings Act of May
25, 1926.1 The City and site were selected by the Federal
Works Administrator and the Postmaster General acting
jointly under the Public Buildings Act. The principal
1 "..

. in every case in which the Secretary of the Treasury or any

other officer of the Government has been, or hereafter shall be, authorized to procure real estate for the erection of a public building or for
other public uses he shall be, and hireby is, authorized to acquire the
same for the United States by condemnation, under judicial process,
whenever in his opinion it is necessary or advantageous to the Gov-

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

issue is: Was the Federal Works Administrator authorized
by the foregoing statutes to acquire by condemnation land
held in trust and used by the City for such public purposes
as those of a local park, courthouse, city hall and public
library?
In 1941, the United States petitioned the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri to condemn as a site for a United States post office and customhouse about one and one-half acres, near the center of the
City of Cape Girardeau, together with the improvements
thereon except a public library building. This site was
part of a four-acre public park and the improvements to
be condemned included a building used as the county
eminent to do so ..... Sec. 1, Condemnation Act of August. 1,
1888, 25 Stat. 357, 40 U. S. C. § 257.
"To enable the Federal Works Administrator to provide suitable
accommodations ...for courthouses, post offices, immigration stations, customhouses, marine hospitals, quarantine stations, and other
public buildings of the classes under the control of the Federal Works
Agency in the States, Territories, and possessions of the United States,
he is hereby authorized and directed to acquire, by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, such sites and additions to sites as he may
deem necessary, . . . Provided, That . . . insofar as relates to buildings to be used in whole or in part for post-office purposes, the Federal
Works Administrator, under regulations to be prescribed by him, shall
act jointly with the Postmaster General in the selection of towns or
cities in which buildings are to be constructed and the selection of sites
therein: . . . ." 40 U. S. C. § 341. This is codified from § 1 of the
Public Buildings Act of May 25, 1926, 44 Stat. 630-631, as modified by
Reorganization Plan I, §§ 301-303, 53 Stat. 1426-1427, 5 U. S. C. following § 133t. See also, 40 U. S. C. §§ 342-350 and the balance of
the original Act.
The petition likewise relied upon the Declaration of Taking Act of
February 26, 1931, 46 Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C. §§ 258a-258e; Third
Deficiency Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1937, 50 Stat. 755, 773; Federal Public Buildings Appropriation Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 818; and the
Reorganization Act of 1939, 53 Stat. 561, 5 U. S. C. § 133, et seq.,
under which Reorganization Plan I was submitted to Congress and
made effective July 1, 1939, 53 Stat. 813, 5 U. S. C. § 133s.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

courthouse and city hall, a memorial fountain, a small
memorial monument and a portion of a bandstand. The
library building apparently was to be removed by its
owners on 30 days' notice from the United States.
The petition included as parties defendant the City and
County, numerous officials and all known and unknown
heirs or others who might claim an interest in this site
especially through those who conveyed it, in trust, in 1807
to the Commissioners of the District or, in trust, in .1820
to the inhabitants of the Town of Cape Girardeau. Respondent was the only defendant to file an answer. Finding that she had no interest permitting her to maintain the
defenses she asserted, the District Court entered a preliminary decree in favor of the United States. On respondent's appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the
cause for further proceedings consistent with its opinion
holding that the respondent had a special interest entitling
her to object to the property being taken for a purpose destructive of the public use to which it had been dedicated
by her ancestors. Carmack v. United States, 135 F. 2d
196.
In 1944, on retrial before a different judge, the District
Court recognized the respondent as entitled to contest the
condemnation and, at the direction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, heard evidence as to whether or not the officials of the United States acted capriciously and
arbitrarily in selecting this site. It held that "the selection
of the site described in the petition, under all the facts
referred to, amounts in law to an arbitrary and unnecessary act" and dismissed the petition. UnitedStates v. Certain Land, Etc., 55' F. Supp. 555, 564. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the judgment on the ground that the
Federal Works Administrator and the Postmaster General did not have sufficient statutory authority "to take the
particular land sought to be condemned." It then expressly found it unnecessary to consider whether or not the

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

federal officials had acted "capriciously and arbitrarily."
United States v. Carmack, 151 F. 2d 881, 882. Because of
the importance of the construction of the statutes authorizing the condemnation of land for faderal uses, we granted
certiorari.

327 U. S. 775.2

Both the general Condemnation Act and the Public
Buildings Act Iexpressly authorized the acquisition of land
by the United States by condemnation as a site for a
United States post office, customhouse or courthouse.
Neither Act expressly named the City or designated the
site to be condemned in this casek Neither expressly
stated whether or not sites already in use for conflicting
federal, state or local public purposes were subject to condemnation. The Condemnation Act supplemented the
federal right "to procure real estate for the erection of a
public building or for other public uses," by adding to it a
general federal power of condemnation under judicial
process to be exercised by an officer of the Government
"whenever in his opinion it is necessary or advantageous to
the Government to do so." The Public Buildings Act, as
an incident to an original $150,000,000 program, gave
authority and direction to the Secretary of the Treasury
(later substituting the Federal Works Administrator) "to
acquire, by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, such
2 The

right of the respondent to contest the condemnation turns
upon the effect of the deeds, executed by certain of her ancestors in
1807 and 1820, pursuant to which this site long has been put to local
public use. Her interest, turning largely on Missouri law, was upheld
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, following the first trial, Carmack v.
United States, 135 F. 2d 196, and, as we do not have to question that
interest in order to reach our decision, we do not reexamine it. Bd.of
Regents, Normal School Dist. No. 8 v. Painter, 102 Mo. 464, 14 S. W.
938; Mott v. Morris, 249 Mo. 137, 155 S. W. 434; and 25 Stat. 357,
40 U. S. C. § 258. The proceeding to condemn the land being in rem,
the jurisdiction of the court does not turn upon her participation in
the case. Cf. United States v. Dunnington, 146 U. S. 338, 352; In re
CondemnationSuits by United States, 234 F. 443, 445.
3See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.

236

Opinion of the Court.

sites

329 U. S.

as he may deem necessary ....... It specified
that as to "buildings to be used in whole or in part for postoffice purposes, the Federal Works Administrator, under
regulations to be prescribed by him, shall act jointly with
the Postmaster General in the selection of towns or cities
in which buildings are to be constructed and the selection
" These Acts were natural means
of sites therein: ....
for Congress to adopt in putting its constitutional powers
into use on a scale commensurate with the size of the
nation and the need of the time. Neither Act imposed
expressly any limitations upon the authority of the officials
designated by Congress to exercise its power of condemnation in procuring sites for public buildings deemed necessary by such officials to enable the Government to perform
certain specified functions.' Far removed from the time
and circumstances that led to the enactment of these statutes in 1888 and 1926, this Court must be slow to read into
them today unexpressed limitations restricting the authority of the very officials named in the Acts as the ones upon
whom Congress chose to rely.
The power of eminent domain is essential to a sovereign
government. If the United States has determined its
need for certain land for a public use that is within its
federal sovereign powers, it must have the right to appropriate that land. Otherwise, the owner of the land, by
refusing to sell it or by consenting to do so only at an
unreasonably high price, is enabled to subordinate the constitutional powers of Congress to his personal will. The
Fifth Amendment, in turn, provides him with important
. . .

4For the three foregoing quotations, see note 1, supra.
ANothing has been found in the legislative history of these Acts to
indicate that Congress intended to give its agents less than the fullest
possible authority of Congress in selecting cities and sites. See H. R.
Rep. No. 132, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., especially minority views at
pp. 6-7, 10, and H. R. Rep. No. 1223, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; S. Rep.
No. 197, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; 67 Cong. Rec. 4023-4028, 8356-8357,

8359, 8494, 8567.

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

protection against abuse of the power of eminent domain
by the Federal Government.
While in its early days the Federal Government filed its
condemnation cases in the state courts, this Court, in Kohl
v. UnitedStates, 91 U. S. 367, disposed of the idea that this
was necessary. In that case, which has become the leading case on the federal power of eminent domain, Mr.
Justice Strong also said:
"It has not been seriously contended during the
argument that the United States government is
without power to appropriate lands or other property
within the States for its own uses, and to enable it
to perform its proper functions. Such an authority is
essential to its independent existence and perpetuity.
These cannot be preserved if the obstinacy of a private
person, or if any other authority, can prevent the
acquisition of the means or instruments by which
alone governmentalfunctions can be performed. The
powers vested by the Constitution in the general government demand for their exercise the acquisition of
lands in all the States. These are needed for forts,
armories, and arsenals, f r navy-yards and lighthouses, for custom-houses, post-offices, and courthouses, and for other public uses. If the right to
acquire property for such uses may be made a barren
right by the unwillingness of property-holders to sell,
or by the action of a State prohibiting a sale to the
Federal government, the constitutional grants of
power may be renderednugatory,and the government
is dependent for its practicalexistence upon the will
of a State, or even upon that of a private citizen. This
cannot be. No one doubts the existence in the State
governments of the right of eminent domain,-a
"No person shall . . .be deprived of life, liberty, or property,

without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for
public use, without just compensation." U. S. Const., Amend. V.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U.S.

right distinct from and paramount to the right of
ultimate ownership. It grows out of the necessities
of their being, not out of the tenure by which lands
are held. It may be exercised, though the lands are
not held by grant from the government, either mediately or immediately, and independent of the consideration whether they would escheat to the government
in case of a failure of heirs. The right is the offspring
of political necessity; and it is inseparable from
sovereignty, unless denied to it by its fundamental
law. . . . But it is no more necessaryfor the exercise
of the powers of a State government than it is for the
exercise of the conceded powers of the Federalgovernment. That government is as sovereign within its
sphere as the States are 'within theirs. True, its
sphere is limited. Certainsubjects -only are committed to it; but its power over those subjects is as full
and complete as is the power of the States over the
subjects to which their sovereignty extends ...
"If the UnitedStates have the power, it must be complete in itself. It can neither be enlarged nor diminished by a State. Nor can any State prescribe the
manner in which it must be exercised. The consent of
a State can never be a condition precedent to its enjoyment." (Italics supplied.) Kohl v. United States,
supra,371-372, 374.
The Kohl case approved the condemnation of privately
owned land, then subject to a perpetual leasehold, for a
post office site in Cincinnati, Ohio, under an Act of Congress expressly naming that City but not expressly naming
the-site. The respondent here seeks, by judicial interpretation of the general Condemnation Act and the Public
Bhildings Act, to exclude from condemnation a particular
site in Cape Girardeau selected for a post office by the
appropriate federal officials. She depends upon the fact

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

239

Opinion of the Court.

that the site already is being used by a governmental subdivision of Missouri for other public purposes impressed
upon it by its private owners over a century ago. The
principle of federal supremacy, so well expressed in the
Kohl case, argues against such a subordination of the decisions of federal representatives to those of individual
grantors or local officials as to the means of carrying out
an admittedly federal governmental function.!
It makes little difference that the site here sought to be
condemned is held by the City in trust instead of in fee.
The city government is not resisting the condemnation.
The Federal Government can obtain, by voluntary conveyance, whatever title the City can convey. The weakness in the City's right to sell or exchange this site arises
from restrictions in the conveyance to it. Through the
inclusion, as defendants, of all claimants who might rely
upon such restrictions or might claim an interest through
the grantors of this site, a decree of condemnation will
dispose of the suggested defects. By giving notice to all
claimants to a disputed title, condemnation proceedings
provide a judicial process for securing better title against
all the world than may be obtained by voluntary
conveyance.
Both in themselves and from the relation of these Acts
to the Constitution, we find substantial reason for making their broad language effective to its full constitutional
limit. While the federal power of eminent domain is limited to taking property for federal public uses, the question
of the existence of a federal public use presents no difficulty
here because the constitutional power of Congress to
establish post offices is express.8
7See also, Hanson Co. v. United States, 26i U. S. 581, 587, for
emphasis on the all-inclusiveness of the general Condemnation Act of
August 1, 1888.
B

U.S. Const., Art. i, § 8, Cls. 7 and 18.

240

OCTOBER TFRM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The considerations that made it appropriate for the
Constitution to declare that the Constitution of the United
States, and the laws of the United.States made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law of the land9 make
it appropriate to recognize that the power of eminent
domain, when exercised by Congress within its constitutional powers, is equally supreme. Mr. Justice Bradley
stated this principle clearly, while on circuit, in Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., 32 F. 9, 19:
"The argument based upon the doctrine that the
states have the eminent domain or highest dominion
in the lands comprised within their limits, and that
the United States have no dominion in such lands,
cannot avail to frustrate the supremacy given by the
constitution to the government of the United States
in all matters within the scope of its sovereignty.
This is not a matter of words, but of things. If it is
necessary that the United States government should
have an eminent domain still higher than that of the
state, in order that it may fully carry out the objects
and purposes of the constitution, then it has it.
Whatever may be the necessities or conclusions of
theoretical law as to eminent domain or anything
else, it must be received as a postulate of the constitution that the government of the United States is
invested with full and complete power to execute and
carry out its purposes."
U. S. Const., Art. VI.
appeal in Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., supra, was
dismissed in this Court, 140 U. S. 699, and, in the meantime, Mr.
Justice Bradley's statement was quoted with approval in Cherokee
Nation v. KansGs Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641,656. See also,. United States
v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160 U. S. 668,681; Luwton v. North River
Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525, 529-530.
When Congress has wished to subordinate its selection of state lands
10An

to state approval it has done so by express provision. In the Weeks

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution says "nor
shall private property be taken for public use, without just
compensation." This is a tacit recognition of a preexisting power to take private property for public use, rather
Forestry Act of March 1, 1911, 36 Stat. 961, 962; 43 Stat. 1215; 45
Stat. 1010; 48 Stat. 955; 16 U. S. C. § 516, and the Migratory Bird
Conservation Act of February 18, 1929,45 Stat. 1222, 1223; 16 U. S. C.
§ 715f, the consent of the state legislature to the federal acquisition of
land is made an express condition of the acceptance of such land. Such
consent does not deprive the state of civil or criminal jurisdiction over
the land. 36 Stat. 963, 16 U. S. C. § 480, and 45 Stat. 1224, 16 U. S. C.
§ 715g. See also, The Upper Mississippi River Wild Life and Fish
Refuge Act of June 7, 1924, 43 Stat. 650, 16 U. S. C. § 724.
The acquisition of federal legislative jurisdiction, as distinguished
from federal title to the land, is a different matter. If the Federal
Government desires exclusive legislative jurisdiction over land
acquired by it, the Constitution indicates that the consent of the state
in which the land is located is necessary. Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17, provides
that "The Congress shall have Power . . . To exercise exclusive
Legislation . . . over all Places purchased by the Consent of the
Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings; . . . ." See Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., 32 F. 9, 18,
appeal dismissed, 140 U. S. 699. See also, Joint Resolution of September 11, 1841, 5 Stat. 468, and Rev. Stat. § 355, which formerly
required the consent of state legislatures to federal purchases of certain
sites as a condition of expending federal funds to pay for them. Since
February 1, 1940, such consent has not been required except where
the United States has sought "exclusive or partial" legislative jurisdiction. Unless and until the United States accepts such jurisdiction
over lands acquired since February 1, 1940, it is presumed conclusively
that no such jurisdiction has been accepted. 54 Stat. 19; 54 Stat.
1083; 40 U. S. C. § 255. The exercise of exclusive legislative jurisdiction is not an issue in this case and, in any event, Missouri has
consented to it. "The consent of the State of Missouri is hereby
given in accordance with the seventeenth clause, eighth section of
the first article of the Constitution of the United States to the acquisition by the United States by purchase or grant of any land in this
State which has been or may hereafter be acquired, for the purpose
Mo. Rev. Stat.
of establishing and maintaining postoffices .......
Ann. (1939), § 12691.

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

than a grant of new power." It imposes on the Federal
Government the obligation tO pay just compensation when
it takes another's property for public use in accordance
with the federal sovereign power to appropriate it. Accordingly, when the Federal Government thus takes for
a federal public use the independently held and controlled
property of a state or of a local subdivision, the Federal
Government recognizes its obligation to pay just compensation for it and it is conceded in this case that the Federal
Government must pay just compensation for the land
condemned.'
The foregoing establishes the principle of the supremacy of a federal public use over all other uses in a clearly
designated field such as that of establishing post offices.
The Government here contends that the officials designated by Congress have been authorized by Congress to use
their best judgment in selecting post office sites. It contends also that if the officials so designated have used such
judgment, in good faith, in selecting the proposed park site
in spite of its conflicting local public uses, the Federal
Works Administrator has express authority to direct the
condemnation of that site. We agree with those contentions. We find in the broad terms.of the Public Buildings
Act authority for the designated officials to select the site
they did. We find, in both Acts, authority for them to acquire by condemnation the site thus lawfully selected.
The judgment exercised by the designated officials in se11

See United State8 v. Cooper, 20 D. C. 104, 116, affirmed sub nom.,
Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282; In re Rugheimer, 36
F. 369, 371.
22 When, however, a sovereign state transfers its own public property
from one governmental use to another, or when the Federal Government takes property from state ownership merely so as to put it to
a fpderal public use for which the state already holds it in trust, a like
obligation does not arise to pay just compensation for it. See In re
CertainLand in Lawrence, 119 F. 453; Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y.
R. Co., 32 F.9, 19, appeal dismissed, 140 U. S. 699.

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

lecting this site out of 22 sites suggested, and out of two
closely balanced alternatives, constituted an administrativ-e and legislative decision not subject to judicial review
on its merits. It was within the legislative power of Congress to choose or reject this site by direct action. It would
have been within its legislative power to exclude from the
consideration of its representatives this or other sites,
the selection of which might interfere with local governmental functions. Such an exclusion would have been
an act of legislative policy. We find no such express or
necessarily implied exclusion in the broad language of
these Acts. 3
In this case, it is unnecessary to determine whether or
not this selection could have been set aside by the courts
as unauthorized by Congress if the designated officials had
acted in bad faith or so "capriciously and arbitrarily" that
their action was without adequate determining principle
or was unreasoned.' The record presents no such issue
28 In the instant case, we deal with broad language employed to
authorize officials to exercise the sovereign's power of eminent domain
on behalf of the sovereign itself. This is a general authorization which
carries with it the sovereign's full powers except such as are excluded
expressly or by necessary implication. A distinction exists, however,
in the case of statutes which grant to others, such as public utilities,
a right to exercise the power of eminent domain on behalf of themselves. These are, in their very nature, grants of limited powers.
They do not include sovereign powers greater than those expressed
or necessarily implied, espeoially against others exercising equal or
greater public powers. In such cases the absence of an express grant
of superiority over conflicting public uses reflects an absence of
such superiority. See United States v. Jotham Bixby Co., 55 F. 2d
317, 319, affirmed sub nom., C. M. Patten & Co. v. United States, 61
F. 2d 970, decree vacated as moot, 289 U. S. 705; In re Condemnations
for Improvement of Rouge River, 266 F. 105; United States v. City
of Tiffin, 190 F. 279, 281.
14
"Arbitrary" is defined by Funk & Wagnalls New Standard Dictionary of the English Language (1944), as "1. . . .; without adequate
determining principle; . . ." and by Webster's New International

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

here. The procedure followed in making the selection of
the site showed extraordinary effort to arrive at a fair and
reasoned conclusion.' 5 The site inspector, in his original
Dictionary, 2d Ed. (1945), as "2. Fixed or arrived at through an
exercise of will or by caprice, without consideration or adjustment
with reference to principles, circumstances, or significance, . . .decisive but unreasoned; .... "
"Capricious" is defined by Webster's New International Dictionary,
2d Ed. (1945), as "2. . . .; apt to change suddenly; freakish; whimsical; humorsome." Cf. Fox Film Corp. v. Trumbull, 7 F. 2d 715, 727;
Puget Sound Power & L. Co. v. Public Utility Dist. No. 1, 123 F.
2d 286, 290, cert. denied, 315 U. S. 814; United States v. Eighty Acres
of Land, 26 F. Supp. 315, 319.
See also, United States v. Certain Parcels of Land, 30 F. Supp. 372,
379; United States v. Parcel of Land, 32 F. Supp. 718, 721.
'5 It apparently followed regulations of the Federal Works Agency
and Post Office Department as authorized by 5 U. S. C. §§ 22, 369; 40
U. S. C. §§ 341, 347. Among its principal steps were the following:
June 12, 1940, approval of the general project for Cape Girardeau by
Federal Works Administrator and Acting Postmaster General based
upon the recommendation of the Commissionei of Public Buildings and
the Fourth Assistant Postmaster General; July 23-26, 29-31, 1940,
Post Office Inspector and Site Agent visited Cape Girardeau; August
20, 1940, he submitted his recommendations, showing that he inspected
22 proposals, eliminated all but 6 on general grounds, carefully considered the remainder and submitted full report on 3. His first choice
was to enlarge the present post office site; his second, to acquire the site
here in controversy; his third, to acquire a site between the two.
Further studies were made in Cape Girardeau or in Washington by the
AssociAte Architect for the Federal Works Agency, the Fiscal Manager
of the Public Buildings Administration and the Superintendent of the
Division of Post Office Quarters in the Post Office Department. All
wishing to be heard-were heard. February 11, 1941, the City Council
passed an ordinance proposing an exchange of the park site for the
present post office site and submitting this proposal to a special election. March 4, 1941, a majority of those voting in 8 of the 10 wards
approved the exchange, the city-wide vote being 1612 to 1344. May
26, 1941, the Acting Commissioner of Public Buildings notified the
Mayor of the Government's acceptance of the proposed exchange.
September 25, 1941, the Acting Administrator of the Federal Works
Agency advised the Attorney General that, under authority of the Pub-

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

report, recommended the park site as his second choice
and demonstrated the reasonableness of a choice, by his
superiors, of either of his first two selections." His estilie Buildings Act, the Agency had contracted for the exchange. After
referring to his failure to secure title by voluntary conveyance from the
City in spite of the willingness of the City officials to make the exchange if they had legal authority to do so, he asked the Attorney General to file this condemnation proceeding. It was done November 22,
1941. In accordance with the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
after the first trial, the Government, on June 10, 1943, secured evidence of a formal joint action, signed personally by the Federal Works
Administrator and the Postmaster General, expressly selecting the site
in suit. This was included in the record of the second trial. The
actions of June 12, 1940, and June 10, 1943, refer to the project as one
for a post office and courthouse, whereas the petition for condemnation
refers to it as one for a post office and customhouse. This variation
was not pressed in the litigation and is not material to the main issue
of statutory construction.
The foregoing narration of the steps taken in this instance is not
intended as an indication that all or any of them are essential to the
exercise of the statutory authority to select sites in other cases. They
are set forth to help demonstrate that, in the face of them, the selection here cannot be classed as "capricious and arbitrary," under any
. appropriate definition of those words.
16 "For First Choice I recommend that the present governmentowned site be retained and that the adjoining property, Site 2 offered
by H. Bermermann be purchased for $15,000, and that a counter offer
be made to the owner of Site 3, Ella M. Drum to purchase this site
for $600.
"This recommendation is made because it is believed that the
present location is the most outstanding site in this city, and because
of the numerous limitations on all of the other competing sites which
would prevent an advantageous or desirable transaction.
"For Second Choice I have selected Site No. 1, the city-owned
park, which could be developed into an attractive setting for the new
building, and which could no doubt be secured in an exchange resulting
in mutual benefit to the oity and Government. The bid submitted by
the City is not intended to be a final offer, and it is expected that after
a review of the facts by the Site Committee a counter-offer could be
made with respect to a definite area of about 175' x 215' within the
park grounds and with respect to improvements in surrounding

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

mate of divided community sentiment, with apparent
community preference for the park site, indicates the absence of capriciousness and arbitrariness in the Government's final selection of the park site." The popular
referendum vote of 1612 to 1344 in favor of the transfer
of the park site by the City to the Federal Government,
in exchange for the Government's transfer of its present
post office site to the City, confirms his estimate. These
federal officials had the right, if not the obligation, to consider at this time the necessity of disposing of the present
post office site and of the single-purpose governmental
building thereon. That issue inevitably would confront
the Government at some time if a new site were chosen.
The opportunity to exchange or sell the present site to
the City in connection with the acquisition of the park site
for a new post office was, therefore, a reasonable rather
than a capricious consideration.
approaches, removal of trees and fountain, and demolition of present
city building. The mayor and city council verbally agreed to favor
any reasonable counter-offer to be made by the Government. It is
my opinion that the government-owned site is valued at approximately $225 per front foot, whereas the park site has a value of about
$100 per front foot, and this must be taken into consideration in
submitting a counter-offer. The question of the City Council's
authority to make an exchange of this property is in dispute, but this
could no doubt be settled by friendly condemnation proceedings, as
the city officials are willing and desirous for the trade."
17 ,...
the city park property, is actively favored by the City
Council, and almost unanimously favored by the business men on
Main Street ...
"Because of the divergence of opinion, the Chamber of Commerce
in a recent meeting decided not to make any official comment as to
a certain location. ...
"The postmaster, who has no financial or personal interest in any
of the locations, but who is conscientiously interested in civic development, regards the government-owned site as an outstanding location
but recommends the city park as first choice because this trade would
allow the city to retain a good improvement and allow the Federal
Government to secure a site with attractive surroundings."

UNITED STATES v. CARMACK.
230

Opinion of the Court.

On the present record, the petitioner was entitled to a
preliminary judgment of condemnation. The finding of
the District Court on the second trial that the selection
of the park site "amounts in law to an arbitrary and unnecessary act" appears, from the context, to have been a
finding largely of the comparative undesirability and lack
of necessity for the selection of that site and not to have
been a finding that the selection had been made without
adequate determining principle and without reason. 8
The comparative desirability and necessity for the site
were matters for legislative or administrative determination rather than for a judicial finding." Even if the word
I8 The District Court said:
"The right of plaintiff to condemn the land must stand or fall on the
determination by this court of the question, Did the Acting Administrator of Federal Works Agency and the Postmaster General, under
the circumstances here presented, act arbitrarily and capriciously in
selecting the site-was the act necessary? -The term 'arbitrarily and
capriciously' has been defined to mean an act done 'without adequate
determining principle; not founded in the nature of things; not done
or acting according to reason or judgment'; an unnecesaary
act.
"That this action was taken by the Joint Committee, with information in thei possession with respect to availability of other sites
which shows unquestionably that the action of the plaintiff is unnecessary and the site selected is not now, nor was it when selected, the
most desirable and available." (Italics supplied.) United States v.
Certain Land, Etc., 55 F. Supp. 555, 557, 563.
19United States ex rel. T. V. A. v. Welch, 327 U. S. 546; Rindge
Co. v. Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700, 708-710; Joslin Co. v. Providence,
262 U. S. 668, 678; Bragg v. Weaver, 251 U. S. 57, 58; Sears v. City of
Akron, 246 U. S. 242, 251; Adirondack Ry. v. New York State, 176
U. S. 335, 349; Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282, 298;
Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403, 406. See also: "The federal
statute . . . does not require proof of 'necessity,' but makes that
question depend solely on the 'opinion' of the federal officer. It is
controlling here." United States v. Montana, 134 F. 2d 194, 197, cert.
denied, 319 U. S. 772.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

"arbitrary," as used by the District Court, was intended
by it to have the ordinary meaning which that word has
when used alone, we are unable to conclude on the record
before us that the selection of the park site for a post
office in Cape Girardeau was, as a matter of law, capricious
and arbitrary in any sense that, under any construction of
the Acts before us, would invalidate the selection here
made.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, therefore,
is reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR- JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result and substantially agrees with the opinion of the Court. But, he
reserves judgment as to the circumstances under which
authority to condemn land owned by a city or a state
should be inferred from a general condemnation statute,
if the local government challenged the taking.

