UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON.

143

Syllabus.

UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION COMMISSION OF ALASKA ET AL. v. ARAGON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 25.

Argued February 27,1946. Reargued November 13, 1946.Decided December 9, 1946.

Companies engaged in catching and canning salmon in Alaska terminated their agreement with the union representing their employees
at the end of the 1939 season. Prior to the beginning of the 1940
season, they opened negotiations in San Francisco with the same
union for a new agreement. There ensued a controversy over wages
which resulted in a failure to reach an agreement aaid a decision to
conduct no operations during the 1940 season. Individuals who
had worked for the companies during the 1939 season filed claims
for unemployment benefits with the Alaska Unemployment Comlensation Commission. The Commission held that they were disqualified from receiving payments for eight weeks under § 5 (d)
of Alaska Extra. Sess. L., 1937, c. 4, as amended by Alaska Sess. L.,
1939, cc. 1, 51, which disqualifies an individual for eight weeks if
"the Commission finds that his . . . unemployment is due to a
labor dispute which is in active progress at the factory, establishment
or other premises at which he . . . was last employed." Held:
1. The Commission could properly find that a "labor dispute"
existed within the meaning of § 5 (d) of the Alaska Act. Pp.
149-151.

2. The term "labor dispute," as used in § 5 (d) of the Alaska Act,
need not be narrowly construed to require a strike or leaving of
employment but may be construed as covering a situation where
the controversy precedes the employment. Pp. 149-151.
3. Evidence that two of the companies had made extensive preparations for the 1940 operations, purchasing equipment and supplies,
preparing ships and holding them in readiness for the expedition,
and that they negotiated in good faith and failed to operate only
because of their inability to negotiate satisfactory labor agreements
before the beginning of the season, was sufficient to support the
Commission's finding that their unemployment was "due" to a
labor dispute. Pp. 149-151.
4. Evidence showing, inter alia, that the withdrawal of another
company from negotiations with the union and its determination

.144

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

329 U. S.

not to operate during the 1940 season occurred prior to the deadline for its operations and was caused primarily by factors other
than its inability to negotiate a satisfactory labor contract did not
support a finding by the Commission that its employees were unemployed "due" to a labor dispute at the establishment at which they
were last employed. Pp. 152, 153.
5. Where the negotiations continued beyond the deadline dates
set by the companies for the consummation of an agreement and
beyond the dates of the applications for unemployment benefits,
the Commission could properly find that a labor dispute was in
"active progress" within the meaning of § 5 (d) of the Alaska Act,
even if it be assumed that at some time within the eight-week period
of disqualification the point was reached when all possibility of
settlement disappeared. P. 153.
(a) The question is one of specific application of a broad statutory term in a proceeding in which the agency administering the
statute must determine it initially. P. 153.
(b) The reviewing court's function is limited; and all that is
needed to support the Commission's interpretation is that it has
"warrant in the record" and a "reasonable basis in law." Pp.
153,154.
6. This Court is unable to say that the Commission's construction
was irrational or without support in the record, since the Commission might reasonably conclude that the unemployment was not
of the "involuntary" nature which the statute was designed to
alleviate. P. 154.
7. The fact that, in accordance with the usual procedure, the wage
negotiations were conducted in San Francisco and Seattle, instead
of at the place of work in Alaska, did not prevent the dispute from
being "at the factory, establishment, or other premises" within
the meaning of § 5 (d) of the Alaska Act. Pp. 154-156.
8. A reviewing court usurps the administrative agency's function
when it sets aside an administrative determination on a ground not
theretofore presented and deprives the agency of an opportunity
to consider the matter, make its ruling, and state the reasons for
its action-where the statute provides that judicial review is permitted only after exhaustion of administrative remedies. P. 155.
149 F. 2d 447, affirmed in part, reversed in part.

The Unemployment Compensation Commission of
Alaska held certain employees of salmon canneries disqualified for eight weeks from receiving unemployment

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON.
143

145

Opinion of the Court.

compensation benefits, on the ground that their unemployment was due to a "labor dispute" within the meaning
of the Alaska Unemployment Compensation Law, Alaska
Extra. Sess. L., 1937, c. 4, as amended by Alaska Sess. L.,
1939, cc. 1, 51.' The District Court affirmed the Commission's holding. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
149 F. 2d 447. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
700. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
P. 156.
Marshall P. Madison argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were E. Coke Hill and FrancisR.
Kirkham.
Herbert Resner argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In May, 1940, the individual respondents filed claims
for unemployment benefits with the Unemployment
Compensation Commission of the Territory of Alaska.
After an initial determination by an examiner and after
decision by a.referee, the Commission held that the claimants were disqualified from receiving benefits for a period
of eight weeks, since their unemployment was due to a
labor dispute in active progress within the meaning of the
Alaska Unemployment Compensation Law.' The United
States District Court affirmed the Commission's holding
in all particulars. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,
one judge dissenting. We granted certiorari because of
the public importance of the questions involved.!
2Extraordinary Session Laws of Alaska, 1937, Chapter 4 as amended
by Chapters 1 and 51, Session Laws of Alaska, 1939.
2The Alaska statute is part of the legislative scheme for unemployment compensation induced by the provisions of the Social Security

Act of 1935.

49 Stat. 620, 626-627, 640. It is said that forty-three

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

Among the petitioners are three corporations engaged
principally in the business of salmon fishing, canning, and
marketing. One of the companies owns canneries and
other facilities at Karluk, Chignik, and Bristol Bay,
Alaska. The other two companies operate only at Bristol
Bay. Catching and canning salmon is a seasonal activity..
The companies customarily hire workers at San Francisco
at the beginning of the season, transport them to the
Alaskan establishments, and return them to San Francisco at the season's end. Similar operations are carried
on by other companies out of other west coast ports,
notably Seattle and Portland. The individual respondents
are all members of the Alaska Cannery Workers Union
Local No. 5, and each worked in Alaska for one of the
three companies during the 1939 season. Local No. 5 is
the recognized bargaining agent of the cannery workers
in the San Francisco area.
In 1939, as had been the practice for some years, the
union entered into a written agreement with the companies, covering in considerable detail the matters of wages,
hours, conditions of employment, and the ]ike. After the
end of the 1939 season, the companies terminated the
agreement then in effect, which made necessary the negotiation of a new contract for the 1940 season. Consequently,
on March 6, 1940, the companies through their authorized
agent, Alaska Salmon Industry, Inc., invited the union to
enter into negotiations for a new agreement. In a series
of meetings held shortly thereafter, serious disagreement
states and territories have provisions similar to those in the Alaska law
disqualifying from unemployment benefits persons unemployed due to
a labor dispute.
8
As provided by Benefit Regulation No. 10 of the Alaska Unemployment Compensation Commission, the season at Karluk extends
from April 5 to September 5, at Chignik from April 1 to September 10,
and at Bristol Bay from May 5 to August 25.

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON.
143

147

Opinion of the Court.

appeared which quickly developed into an impasse on the
question of wages. The union demanded wages equal to
or in excess of those paid under the terms of the 1939 agreement. The companies offered wages which for the most
part were below those paid in 1939. On April 1, 1940, the
union caused the negotiations as to the wage issue to be
transferred from San Francisco to Seattle, where an attempt was being made to effect a coastwide agreement to
cover all west coast companies carrying on salmon operations in Alaska. Local No. 5, however, refused to sign a
"memorandum" agreement incorporating such terms as
might result from the concurrent Seattle negotiations.
On April 3, the companies notified the union that if
operations were to be carried on in Karluk and Chignik
during the 1940 season, an agreement with respect to the
former would have to be reached by April 10 and with
respect to the latter by April 12. Although negotiations
proceeded up to the deadlines, the parties arrived at no
understanding, and on April 22 Alaska Salmon Industry,
Inc., formally announced that no operations would be
carried on in Karluk and Chignik during 1940. Meetings
continued, however, in an effort to come to an understanding with respect to Bristol Bay before the arrival of
the May 3d deadline which had been set for those operations. Although federal mediators intervened in an
attempt to discover a suitable compromise, the deadline
date passed without agreement. It appears that, after
May 3, negotiations continued in Seattle, where a contract
affecting only canners and workers operating out.of ports
other than San Francisco was finally executed on May 29.
The companies and union which are involved in this case
were specifically excluded from the terms of the 1940
Seattle agreement.
Shortly after May 3, the individual respondents filed
claims for unemployment benefits with the Alaska Unem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

ployment Compensation Commission. The Commission,
acting through an examiner, held that respondents were
disqualified from receiving payments for- the statutory
period of eight weeks under the provisions of § 5 (d) of the
Alaska law. At the time this case arose, that section
stated in part: "An individual shall be disqualified for
benefits . . . (d) For any week with respect to which the
Commission finds that his total or partial unemployment
is due to a labor dispute which is in active progress at the
factory, establishment or other premises at which he is
or was last employed; provided, that such disqualification
shall. not exceed the 8 weeks immediately following the
beginning of such dispute . . ."
In -pursuance of the appeal provisions of the statute,'
respondents asked for a review of the examiner's determination. The Commission, in response to this application, appointed a Referee to pass on the disputed claims.
The scope of the hearings was confined to the issue of
whether the unemployment of the claimants was caused
by the existence of a labor dispute. At the end of the proceedings, the Referee came to the conclusion that, although there was a labor dispute in existence initially,
the dispute was no longer "in active progress" after the
passing of the dates fixed by the companies for consummation of the working agreements. Consequently, the
disqualification under § 5 (d) with respect to each of the
localities was held no longer to attach after the passage
of the respective deadline dates."
'Section 6 (c) and § 6 (d), Chapter 1, Session Laws of Alaska,
1939.
a The Referee found that there had been unemployment due to a
labor dispute in active progress at Karluk from April 5, when the
season opened, to April 10, the deadline date, and at Chignik from
April 1 to April 12. Since the deadline date with respect to Bristol
Bay was set two days before the season opened there, the Referee
found that there was no dispute in active progress at those plants.

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON. 149
143

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission, on appeal, 6 reversed the Referee's decision and held that, within the meaning of the Alaska
law, a labor dispute was in active progress ihroughout
the entire eight-week statutory period of disqualification
beginning with the opening of the season in each locality.
Consequently, no benefits were payable until the expiration of the disqualification period. The United States
District Court affirmed the Commission's decision in all
particulars.! The Circuit Court of Appeals, with one
judge dissenting, reversed, however, on the ground that
the labor dispute was not physically at the Alaska canneries where the individual respondents had been .last
employed.
We are met tE the outset with the contention that the
facts of this case do not present a "labor dispute" within
the meaning of § 5 (d) of the Alaska Act. Respondents
urge that the term must be narrowly construed to require
a strike or leaving of employment which, in turn, calls
for a presently-existing employment relation at the time
the dispute arises." According to this view, the term
6 This procedure was in pursuance of § 6 (e) of the Act as amended
by Chapter 1, Session Laws of Alaska, 1939.
7 Section 6, (i) of the Act provides that within thirty days after the,,
decision of the Commission has become final, any party aggrieved may
secure judicial review in the United States District Court. The section states, "In any judicial proceeding under this Section, the findings of the Commission as to the facts, if supported by evidence and
in the absence of fraud, shall be conclusive, and the jurisdiction of said
Court shall be confined to questions xf law."
8
A number of state courts in construing similar legislation have
found "labor disputes" to have existed in situations where no contractual employment relation presently existed. Each of these cases
involved a work stoppage in the interval between the expiration of
an old labor contract and the consummation of a new agreement.
Miner. in General Group v. Hix, 123 W. Va. 637, 17 S. E. 2d.810
(1941); Ex parte Pesnell, 240 Ala. 457, 199 So. 726 (1940); Barnes v.
Hall, 285 Ky. 160, 146 S. W. 2d 929 (1940); Block Coal & Coke Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

would not cover a situation, such as presented here, where
the controversy precedes the employment. Respondents
would justify this restricted construction on the ground
that the Unemployment Compensation Law is remedial
legislation, and any provision limiting benefits under the
Act should be narrowly interpreted.
The term "labor dispute" is not defined in the statute.
The term appears in the Act in one other connection, however. Section 5 (c) (2) (A) provides that benefits under
the Act will not be denied any individual, otherwise eligible, who reft ses to accept new work "if the position offered
is vacant due directly to a strike, lockout, or other labor
dispute." The Social Security Act of 1935' requires that
the state or territorial law contain a provision to this effect
before the legislation can be approved by the Social Security Board. Obviously, for the purposes of § 5 (c) (2) (A),
the term, "labor dispute," has a broader meaning than that
attributed to it by respondents. Unless the Territorial
Legislature intended to give a different meaning to the
same language appearing in another subdivision of the
same section, the term must be given a broader meaning
than that contended for by the respondents, for the purposes of § 5 (d) as well. We need not determine whether
"labor dispute" must in all cases be construed as broadly
as it is defined in the Norris-LaGuardia Act 10 and the
v. United Mine Workers of America, 177 Tenn. 247, 148 S. W. 2d
364, 149 S. W. 2d 469 (1941); Sandoval v. Industrial Comm'n, 110
Colo. 108, 130 P. 2d 930 (1942).
9
49 Stat. 640, 26 U. S. C. § 1603 (5) (A).
1 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C. § 101.
The Norris-LaGuardia Act contains the following definition: "The term 'labor dispute' includes any
controversy concerning terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the association or representation of persons in negotiating,
fixing, 'maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless of whether or not the disputants
stand in the proximate relation of employer and employee." 47 Stat.
73, 29 U. S. C. § 113 (c). A number of state courts have found this

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON. 151
143

Opinion of the Court.

National Labor Relations Act." But here there was fullscale controversy. Companies engaged in carrying on a
seasonal business were ranged against a union representing seasonal workers who had been employed by the companies in the previous year. Dispute there certainly was;
and the subject of that dispute consisted of matters usually
contested in labor disputes as that term is normally understood."2 Since we find nothing to indicate that the Territorial Legislature intended a contrary result, we conclude that the Commission might properly find a "labor
dispute" here presented within the meaning of § 5 (d) of
the Alaska Act.
We think that there is evidence in the record to support
the Commission's conclusion that respondents' unemployment was "due" to a labor dispute insofar as that holding
relates to the individual respondents employed in 1939
by the Alaska -Packers Association and the Red Salmon
Canning Company. At the hearings before the Referee,
the respondents attempted to establish that the companies called off their 1940 operations for reasons other than
their inability to negotiate a satisfactory labor agreement.
It was argued, for example, that the companies feared a
poor catch as a result of governmental restrictions on fishing applicable to the 1940 season. The evidence adduced
and the similar definition in the National Labor Relations Act persuasive in their construction of the term appearing in unemployment
compensation legislation similar to the Alaska Act. Miners in General
Group v. Hix, 123 W. Va. 637, 17 S. E. 2d 810 (1941); Barnes v.
Hall, 285 Ky. 160, 146 S. W. 2d 929 (1940); Ex parte Pesnell, 240
Ala. 457, 199 So. 726 (1940); Sandoval v. Industrial Comm'n, 110
Colo. 108, 130 P. 2d 930 (1942). The Alabama legislature incorp'orated the definition appearing in the Norris-LaGuardia Act into the
Alabama unemployment compensation act. Ala. Code. Tit. 26

§ 214 (A).

1149 Stat. 449,29 U. S. C. § 151.

12 The Examiner, the Referee, the Commission, the District Court,
and presumably the Circuit Court of Appeals all found a "labor dispute" to have existed, at least before the arrival of the deadline dates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

before the Referee indicates that both of the above-mentioned companies made extensive preparations for the 1940
operations. In anticipation, equipment and supplies of
the value of several hundred thousand dollars were purchased. Ships were prepared and held in readiness for the
expeditions. The Referee found that these companies
negotiated in good faith and failed to operate in Alaska
during the 1940 season only because of their inability to
negotiate satisfactory labor agreements before the passing
of the deadline dates. There is evidence that the Alaska
Packers Association expected to hire about two-thirds the
number of workers in 1940 it had employed in 1939. But
there is nothing in the record to establish that any of the
claimants in this action would have been unemployed as
a result of this contemplated curtailment in activity, or, if
any of the respondents would have been affected, which of
their number would have been unemployed. It appears
that the Red Salmon Canning Company expected to use
the same number of workers in 1940 as in 1939, or possibly
a few more. Under these circumstances, we think that the
Commission's finding that the unemployment was "due"
to the labor dispute should stand insofar as it relates to
the claimants indicated.
,But a different situation is presented with reference to
the respondents employed by the Alaska Salmon Company
in 1939. That company has an establishment only at Bristol Bay. On April 30, three days before the deadline
relating to the Bristol Bay operations, Alaska Salmon
withdrew from the negotiations with the union and announced that it was unable to send an expedition to Alaska
in 1940. The Referee found that the withdrawal was
caused primarily by factors other than the company's inability to negotiate a satisfactory labor contract. At the
hearings before the Referee, counsel for the company stipulated that, even though the other companies had negotiated a labor agreement with the union before the deadline

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON. 153
143

Opinion of the Court.

date, Alaska Saimon would have conducted no operations
out of San Francisco in 1940 after its withdrawal from
negotiations. We conclude that the record does not support the finding of the Commission that the respondents
employed by the Alaska Salmon Company in 1939 were
unemployed."due" to a labor dispute at the establishment
at which last employed.
Respondents urge that, assuming their unemployment
was due to a labor dispute, there was no labor dispute in
active progress," within the meaning of the Act, after the
passage of the deadline dates. It is argued that when the
expeditions were abandoned by the companies, the dispute
must necessarily have terminated since there was no possible way in which negotiations could have brought about a
settlement. It should be observed, however, that the rec-

ord does not reveal that negotiations abruptly terminated
with the passing of the last deadline date. Conferences
contiftued at Seattle in which both the companies and the
union were represented. The respondents considered the
negotiations sufficiently alive to make an offer of terms at
least as late as May 29. Even if it be assumed that at some
time within the eight-week period of disqualification the
point was reached when all possibility of settlement disappeared, It does not follow that the Commission's finding
of a dispute in "active progress" must be overturned.
Here, as in Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,Inc., 322
U. S. 111, 131 (1944), the question presented "is one of
specific application of a broad statutory term in a proceeding in which the agency administering the statute
must determine it initially." To sustain the Conmission's
application of this statutory term, we need not find that
its construction is the only reasonable one, or even that it
is the result we would have reached had the question arisen
in the first instance in judicial proceedings. The "review,
ing court's function is limited." All that is needed to support the Commission's interpretation is that it has

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

"warrant in the record" and a "reasonable basis in law."
Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, Inc., supra; Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125
(1939).

Applying these tests, we are unable to say that the Commission's construction was irrational or without support in
the record. - The Commission apparently views a dispute
as "activ6" during the continuance of a work stoppage induced by a labor dispute. That agency might reasonably conclude that the unemployment resulting from such
work stoppage is not of the "involuntary" nature which
the statute was designed to alleviate, as indicated by the
statement of public policy incorporated in the Act by the
Territorial Legislature." We see nothing in such a view
to require our substituting a different construction from.
that made by the Commission entrusted with the responsibility of administering the statute."'
Nor can we accept the argument of the majority of the
Court'of Appeals that since negotiations between the companies and the workers were carried on in San Francisco
and Seattle, the dispute could not be said to be "at" the
13The "Declaration of It "torial Public Policy" states that "Involuntary unemployment is . . . a subject of general interest and concern which requires appropriate action by the legislature." It is
further stated that the public welfare demands the compulsory
setting aside of unemployment reserves "for the benefit of persons
unemployed through no fault of their own." Chapter 4, Extraordinary Session Laws of Alaska, 1937. (Italics supplied.)
Several state courts have concluded that the disqualification relating
to unemployment due to a labor dispute is a reflection of the broad
policy of the legislation to compensate only persons involuntarily
unemployed. Barnes v. Hall, 285 Ky. 160, 146 S. W. 2d 929 (1940);
Deshler Broom Factory v. Kinney, 140 Neb. 889, 2 N. W. 2d 332
(1942); Sandoval v. Industrial Commission, 110 Colo. 108, 130 P.
2d 930 (1942).
14 Labor Board v. Hearst Publication, supra; Rochester Telephone
Corp. v. United States, supra. Cf. Social Security Board v. Nierotko,
327 U. S.358 (1946).

UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N v. ARAGON. 155
143

Opinion of the Court.

Alaskan establishments as required by the statute. So far
as we are able to determine, this issue was injected for
the first time by the opinion of the majority of the Court
of Appeals. The contention does not seem to have been
raised or pressed by respondents up to that point. The
responsibility of applying the statutory provisions to the
facts of the particular case was given in the first instance
to the Commission. A reviewing court usurps the
agency's function when it sets aside the administrative
determination upon a ground not theretofore presented
and deprives the Commission of an opportunity to consider the matter, make its ruling, and state the reasons
for its action."5 Nor do we find the argument advanced
below convincing on its merits. It is clear that the subject matter of the dispute related to the operation of the
Alaskan establishments. As a result of the dispute, the
normal activities involved in catching and canning salmon
were not carried on throughout the 1940 season at any of
those establishments. We do not consider significant the
fact that the companies and the union did not negotiate
at the canneries or on the ships in Alaskan waters. A legislature familiar with the nature of seasonal operations
carried on int the Territory could hardly have been unaware
of the fact that companies and workers customarily carried on negotiations far distant from the Alaskan establishments.. It seems unlikely that it was intended that
this ordinary and usual procedure should defeat the disqualification for benefits incorporated in the Act. Furthermore, it should be observed thatthe respondent union
15 Section 6 (h) of the Act states-that judicial review of the Commission's decision "shall be permitted only after any party claiming to be
aggrieved thereby has exhausted his administrative remedies as provided by this Act." Cf. Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303
U. S. 41, 50-51 (1938); Regal Knitwear Co. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S.
9, 13 (1945); Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177,
196-197 (1941).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

voluntarily entered into the negotiations conducted at San
'Francisco and Seattle and at no time challenged the propriety of this practice. Thus if we assume with respondents that this issue is properly presented- for consideration,
we conclude that under the circumstances of this ease the
dispute was "at the factory, establishment, or other
premises" in the sense intended by the Territorial
Legislature.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is affirmed insofar as it holds that the
statutory eight-week period of disqualification is inapplicable to the individual respondents employed by the
Alaska S4lmon Company in 1939. In all other particulars, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and the case remanded to the District Court
with instructions to remand for further proceedings pursuant to this opinion.

VANSTON BONDHOLDERS PROTECTIVE

COMMITTEE v. GREEN
NO. 4 2.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 22, 1946.-Decided December 9, 1946.
In a reorganization proceeding under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy
Act, claim was made under a covenant in a first mortgage indenture
for interest on interest which had accrued after payments by the
debtor corporation had been suspended by a court order in an equity
receivership, which was succeeded by a reorganization proceeding
under § 77B and later by the Chapter X proceeding. The corporation was insolvent; its assets were sufficient to pay the first mortgage bondholders in full, including the interest on interest; but to
*Together with No. 43, Vanston Bondholders Protective Committee
v. Early et al.; No. 44, Vanhorn Bondholders Protective Committee v.
Green et al.; and No. 45, Vanhorn Bondholders Protective Committee
v. Early et al., on certiorari to the same court.

