304

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

329 U. S.

EAGLES, POST COMMANDING OFFICER, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. SAMUELS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 59.

Argued November 21, 1946.-Decided December 23, 1946.

Respondent registered under the Selective Training and Service Act

of 1940 and was classified IV-D under § 5 (d), which exempts
"students who are preparing for the ministry in theological or
divinity schools recognized as such for more than one year" prior
to the Act. Subsequently, he appeared before an advisory panel on
theological classifications established by the New York City Director of Selective Service pursuant to § 10 (a) (2), which consisted
of prominent laymen and rabbis of respondent's faith. After hearing respondent, the panel concluded that he was not "preparing
in good faith for a career of service in the practicing rabbinate" and
so reported to the City Director, who transmitted this report and
the transcript of the hearing to the local board with a request that
respondent's classification be reopened but with the statement that,
while the local board should give careful consideration to the recommendation of the panel, the determination of the classification must
be made by the board itself or by an appeal agency. The local
board reclassified respondent I-A. After respondent submitted
additional evidence and had two hearings before the local board
and one before the board of appeal, his classification as I-A was
sustained and he was inducted into the Army. He petitioned for a
writ of habeas corpus and was released unconditionally from military
custody. Held:
1. The fact that respondent had been released unconditionally
from military custody under a writ of habeas corpus does not make
the case moot in this Court, since a reversal would make lawful a
resumption of the custody. Pp. 306-308.
2. Habeas corpus may not be used as a writ of error and its
function is exhausted when it is ascertained that the agency under
whose order the petitioner is being held had jurisdiction to act.
Pp. 311, 315.
3. The use of the theological panel was authorized by § 10 (a) (2)
of the Act, authorizing the establishment of "civilian local boards,
civilian appeal boards, and such other agencies . . .as may be

necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act."
313

Pp. 308, 312-

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

4. Failure of the statement filed by the panel to disclose the names
of its members did not render the administrative proceedings invalid
per se, where the registrant appeared before them, saw them face to
face, recognized one of them, and made no effort, either at the time
or subsequently, to ascertain who the others were. P. 314.
5. Nor are the administrative proceedings invalidated by the fact
that, in addition to answering ecclesiastical questions, the panel
rendered an advisory opinion on the bona fides of his claim.
P. 316.
6. The fact. that there was a two-year interruption in respondent's
education, that he returned to the day session of the seminary in
the month when his selective service questionnaire was returned,
and that the seminary was not preparing men exclusively for the
rabbinate, makes it impossible to say that the final classification
made by the board of appeal was without evidence to support it.
Pp. 316-317.
151 F. 2d 801, reversed.
The District Court dismissed a writ of habeas corpus
sought by respondent on the ground that he had been
illegally inducted into military service. The Circuit
Court- of Appeals reversed, 151 F. 2d 801, and he was released unconditionally. This Court granted certiorari.
328 U. S. 830. Reversed, p. 317.
Irving S. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath and
Robert S. Erdahl.
Meyer Kreeger argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Samuels registered under the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940,1 as amended, and thereafter claimed
154 Stat. 885, 55 Stat. 211, 621, 845, 56 Stat. 386, 50 U. S. C. App.,
50 U. S. C. App. Supp. I, and 50 U. S. C. App. Supp. II, § 301 et seq.
Our citations of the Act and the regulations throughout the opinion
refer to the provisions applicable at the times relevant here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

exemption from military service under § 5 (d) of the Act.
That exemption includes not only regular or duly ordained
ministers of religion but also "students who are preparing
for the ministry in theological or divinity schools recognized as such for more than one year prior" to the Act.
He was classified I-A and inducted into the Army. Thereafter he filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the
District Court, seeking release from military custody on
the ground that he was entitled to an exemption under
§ 5 (d) of the Act and that his classification as I-A was
unlawful. There was a return and a hearing, and the
District Court ordered the writ dismissed. On appeal
the Circuit Court of Appeals, in reliance on United States
v. Cain, 149 F. 2d 338, reversed and remanded the cause
to the District Court with directions to "discharge" Samuels "from military custody, without prejudice to further
lawful proceedings under the Selective Service Act." 151
F. 2d 801, 802.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
which we granted in order to resolve the conflict between
the decision below and United States v. Hearn, 153 F. 2d
186, in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.
First. A question of mootness lies at the threshold of
the case presented here. We are advised that after remand of the cause the District Court ordered the release
of Samuels and that he was thereupon unconditionally
released from military custody. Samuels contends that
the case is moot since he is no longer in custody of the military or of any one else but is free to come and go as he
pleases.
Under our decisions the case would be moot if the writ
of habeas corpus had been denied below and, pending disposition of the petition here, Samuels had received a
discharge from the army. Zimmerdan v. Walker, 319
U. S.744. And see Weber v. Squier, 315 U. S.810; Tornello v. Hudspeth, 318 U. S. 792. That situation, like

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

the case of a prisoner who, pending an appeal from denial
of a writ of habeas corpus, is granted bail, Johnson v. Hoy,
227 U. S. 245; Wales v. Whitney, 114 U. S.564, 572-574,
would present no existing controversy. Habeas corpus
is the means of making a judicial "inquiry into the cause
of restraint of liberty." R.S. § 752,28 U. S. C. § 452. As
stated in McNally v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131, 137, "There is
no warrant in either the statute or the writ for its use to
invoke judicial determination of questions which could
not affect thelawfulness of the custody and detention."
If the custody or restraint of liberty is terminated without
use of the writ, the case is finished. Different considerations are brought into play if custody is ended through
the writ itself.
Our rules recognize the beneficent function of the writ,
Bowen v. Johnston, 306 U. S. 19, 26-27; People v. Jennings, 246 N. Y. 258, 158 N. E. 613, ' by providing that a
prisoner to whom the writ has been granted may, pending
appeal, be enlarged on a recognizance. Rule 45. The
fact that he has been so enlarged does not render the appeal of the custodian moot. Carrv. Zaja, 283 U. S. 52, 53.*
In such a case the release is obtained through the assertion
of judicial power. It is the propriety of the exercise of
that power which is in issue in the appellate court, whether
the prisoner is discharged or remanded to custody.
Though the writ has been granted and the prisoner released, the appellate court by what it does is not rendering
2

In that case Mr. Justice Cardozo, then Chief Judge of the New
York Court of Appeals, said, "It would be intolerable that a custodian
adjudged to be at fault, placed by the judgment of the court in the
position of a wrongdoer, should automatically, by a- mere notice of
appeal, prolong the term of imprisonment, and frustrate the operation
of the historic writ of liberty." 246 N. Y. p. 260, 158 N. E. 613,
3Itappears from the briefs in that case that after the writ had
issued in the lower court the petitioner had been discharged, pending
appeal, on a recognizance.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

an opinion and issuing an order which cannot affect the
litigants in the case before it. Cf. St. Pierre v. United
States, 319 U. S. 41,42, and cases cited. Affirmance makes
the prisoner's release final and unconditional. Reversal
undoes what the habeas corpus court did and makes lawful
a resumption of the custody. Knewel v. Egan, 268 U. S.
442, 448; Haddox v. Richardson, 168 F. 635; James v.
Amrine, 157 Kan. 397, 140 P. 2d 362; State v. Langum,
135 Minn. 320, 160 N. W. 858.
Second. On the merits the case involves primarily the
use by the Selective Service System in New York City of
advisory panels on theological classifications. Under the
Act the President is authorized to establish "civilian local
boards, civilian appeal boards, and such other agencies, including agencies of appeal, as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this Act." Section 10 (a) (2), 57 Stat.
597, 598, 50 U. S. C. App. Supp. III, § 310 (a) (2). With
exceptions not material here, the President is authorized
to delegate to the Director of Selective Service any authority vested in him under the Act. Section 10 (b), 57 Stat.
597, 598, 50 U. S. C. App. Supp. III, § 310 (b). And
the Director may redelegate that authority. Id. The
administration of the system in each State is delegated
under the regulations to a state director. Sections 603.11,
603.12, 6 Fed. Reg. 6827. In New York City, however, a
city director has been appointed who' performs within that
area the functions of the state director. Section 603.12-1,
8 Fed. Reg. 3514. The city director supervises the local
boards and boards of appeal in New York City. He may
require a local board to reopen and consider anew the classification of a registrant. Section 626.2 (b), 9 Fed. Reg.
11619, § 626.2-1, 10 Fed. Reg. 9210. He may appeal to a
board of appeal any determination of a local board. Section 627.1, 8 Fed.,Reg. 16720, 10 Fed. Reg. 9210. He may
require a board of appeal to reconsider its decision,

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

§ 627.61, 8 Fed. Reg. 6017, or appeal from it to the
President. Section 628.1, 7 Fed. Reg. 10521.
It appears that the city director, in aid of these functions, established theological panels. It was thought desirable to give the selective service personnel the benefit of
the advice of those familiar with the educational practices
of various religious groups so that Selective Service might
exercise a more informed judgment in evaluating claims to
classifications in IV-D. Accordingly, theological panels
were constituted, one of which consisted of prominent laymen and rabbis of the Jewish faith who gave advisory
opinions on those who sought a IV-D classification on the
grounds that they were either rabbis or students preparing
for the ministry in the Jewish religion. The members of
the panel were volunteers, as permitted by the regulations.
Section 602.2, 6 Fed. Reg. 6826. And pursuant to the regulations each took the oath of office. Section 602.4 (a),
6 Fed. Reg. 6826.
Samuels registered under the Act in February, 1942. In
May and July, 1942, he filed with his local board questionnaires stating that he had had two years of high school
education; that he was a student at the Mesifta Theological Seminary preparing for the rabbinate; that since 1940
his regular occupation was that of a clerk; that for the
past two years he had been employed by a textile company; and that the job for which he was best fitted was
that of a spiritual leader and a teacher of Hebrew or rabbinical duties. The local board was advised by the seminary that Samuels had attended there since he was six
years old, that he had finished the eight-year elementary
course and the four-year pre-rabbinical course, that he
had been admitted to the rabbinical division in 1937,
that he left the school in 1939 to seek employment, that
he returned to the evening school in September, 1941, and
that he was transferred to the day session in July, 1942,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

which, as later appeared, was a few days.before the school
closed for the summer.
In August, 1942, the local board classified him IV-D.
Section 622.44 (a), 6 Fed. Reg. 6607, 6610. In May, 1944,
he was given a physical examination and found acceptable
for military service. Thereafter the city director requested that he appear before the theological panel in
respect to his claim to a IV-D classification. He appeared
before the panel in June, 1944, stating, inter alia, that
he expected to graduate from the seminary in 1945, that
ill health caused him to leave the school in 1939, that
between 1940 and 1942 he worked as a clerk, and that he
returned to the seminary as a full-time student at about
the time he filed his selective service questionnaire.
The panel reported that the seminary which Samuels attended was not preparing men exclusively for the rabbinate, that orthodox tradition encouraged advanced study of
the subjects in which students for the ministry were
trained, and that students ultimately intending to enter
business or a profession or some non-rabbinic activity in
the field of religion may be enrolled in the same classes as
those preparing for the rabbinate. The panel stated that it
therefore seemed essential to determine in each case what
the registrant had in mind in pursuing his course of study;
that to make that determination the character of the seminary, the sincerity of the registrant's declared purpose, his
demeanor, and the impression as to his candor and honesty
should be considered. It concluded that Samuels was not
"preparing in good faith for a career of service in the practicing rabbinate." Its recommendation and the transcript of the hearing before it were sent to the city director
who forwarded them to the local board with a request that
Samuels' classification be reopened and with the statement that "while the Local Board should give careful consideration to the recommendation of the advisory panel,
the responsibility of determining the registrant's classi-

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

fication must rest with the Local Board itself, or the
appropriate agency of appeal."
The local board reclassified Samuels I-A in August, 1944.
He submitted additional evidence and requested a hearing.
One was had in September, 1944 and another in October,
1944. There is no showing that the recommendation of
the panel or the transcript of the hearing before it was
kept from Samuels. They were not marked confidential
in the file. The local board, indeed, allowed Samuels to
correct alleged inaccuracies in the transcript. The local
board ordered him continued in I-A and, on appeal, the
board of appeal also classified him as I-A. A few days
later Samuels filed additional information with the local
board and requested that his classification be reopened.
Another hearing was held, Samuels being present. He advised the board that he had appeared of his own volition
before a committee representing the Union of Orthodox
Rabbis (but not connected with the selective service system) and that the committee concluded he was a student
preparing in good faith for the ministry. What facts that
committee may have acted upon do not appear. In any
event, the local board denied Samuels' request to recpen
the classification by a divided vote; and shortly thereafter
he was inducted into the army..
Congress made the decisions of the local boards and of
the boards of appeal "final," except as appeals from them
may be authorized, § 10 (a) (2), withholding from the
courts the customary power of review of administrative
action. See Estep v. United States, 327 U. S.114.
It is elementary that habeas corpus may not be used as
a writ of error. Tisi v. Tod, 264 U. S. 131; Woolsey v.
Best, 299 U. S.1. The function of habeas corpus is exhausted when it is ascertained that the agency under whose
order the petitioner is being held had jurisdiction to act.
If the writ is to issue, mere error in the proceeding which
resulted in the detention is not sufficient. Tisi v. Tod,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

supra. Deprivation of petitioner of basic and fundamental
procedural safeguards, an assertion of power to act beyond
the authority granted the agency, and action without evidence to support its order, are familiar examples of the
showing which is necessary. See Johnson v. Zerbst, 304
U. S. 458; Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S. 135, 149. But it is
not enough to show that the decision was wrong, Tisi v.
Tod, supra, or that incompetent evidence was admitted
and considered. Vajtauer v. Commissioner,273 U. S. 103.
If it cannot be said that there were procedural i :gularities of such a nature or magnitude as to render the hearing
unfair, Bridges v. Wixon, supra, p. 156, or that there was
no evidence to support the order, Vajtauer v. Commissioner,supra,the inquiry is at an end.
We do not think that the use of the theological panel
per se infected the whole administrative proceeding and
rendered it so unfair as to be nugatory. The task of the
local boards in evaluating claims to exemption is almost
certain to raise perplexing problems, especially in large
centers where the status and activities of registrants are
not so well known in the community. The local boards
will frequently have to make inquiries on their own. And
when it comes to exemptions claimed under § 5 (d), the
variety of religious faiths and the differing educational
practices of the churches or of sects within one faith may
create difficult questions for the boards.
We agree with the court in United States v. Hearn,
upra, p. 188, that advice from well-informed members
of the faith in question may "both help and speed just
classification." Congress wrote into the Act a comparable procedure for the handling of claims for exemtion by conscientious objectors, Where such claims
are denied by the local board and appealed, they are referred to the Department of Justice for a hearing and an
advisory report. Section 5 (g). But the fact that there
is no specific statutory provision for the creation of theo-

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

logical panels does not make their use improper. Wise
administration may call for the expert advice which they
alone can offer. And we see no difference in principle if
they are formally constituted and regularly used in lieu of
inquiry to members of the particular faith as individual
cases arise. The administrative function entrusted to the
Selective Service is an enormous one. The Act contemplates an administrative organization highly decentralized
so as to operate effectively at the local level. More than
the director, local boards, and boards of appeal were authorized. For § 10 (a) (2), as we have noted, authorized
the creation of "other agencies" as well. A theological
advisory panel, serving solely in an advisory capacity,
would seem to be included'in that category. The information received by the board'from the panel, like information from any other source, must be put in writing in
the file so that the registrant may examine it, explain or
correct it, or deny it.4 There is, moreover, no confidential
information which can be kept from the registrant under
the regulations.' With those safeguards a truly expert
panel might serve a most useful function without the
administrative process being corrupted by any unfair
procedure.
Distinct questions would be raised if a registrant of one
faith were referred to a theological panel on which his faith
was not represented. See United States v.. Balogh, 157
F. 2d 939. But it has not been shown that such a condition obtained here.
'The regulations provide that in classifying a registrant, "Oral
information should not be considered unless it is summarized in writing
and the summary placed in the registrant's file. Under no circumstances should the local board rely upon information received by a
member personally unless such information is reduced to writing .and
placed in the registrant's file." Section 623.2, 9 Fed. Reg. 437, 10
Fed. Reg. 8541.
1 See § 605.32 (a), 9 Fed. Reg. 9190.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

The court in United States v. Cain, supra, p. 341, held
that though the propriety of the use of a theological panel
be assumed, it must be limited by two conditions: the
names of the members of the panel must be disclosed to
the registrant so that he may be in a position to challenge
it; the advice or answers which it gives must be limited to
ecclesiastical questions.
In the statement which the panel filed in this case
the names are not disclosed. But we do not think that
fact rendered the administrative proceedings invalid per
se. This is not a case of a registrant being passed upon
by a secret group. He appeared before them, saw them
face to face, and indeed recognized one of them. There
is no showing that Samuels tried to ascertain who the panel
members were, either at the time or subsequently, and was
denied the information. Though we assume that the regulations require the file to disclose the names and affiliations of the panel members, the mere absence of a formal
disclosure is not, without more, so grave an omission as to
undermine the whole administrative proceeding.
The question is not whether the allegations of the petition are sufficient to justify the grant of the writ or the
issuance of a rule to show cause, so that the facts can be
ascertained in accord with the procedure outlined in
Walker v. Johnston,312 U. S. 275. In this case there was a
return to the writ, a full hearing was had, and all evidence
offered was received. Samuels had the burden of showing
that he was unlawfully detained. Walker v. Johnston,
8upra. Not every procedural error, but only those so flagrant as td result in an unfair hearing render the proceedings vulnerable in a collateral attack. Tisi v. Tod, supra,
p. 133; Bridges v. Wixon, supra, pp. 152-156. On the case
Samuels has made out, the most that has been shown is
that the use of the theological panel might result in a hearing so unfair as to deprive the administrative proceedings
of vitality. Samuels has failed to show that in his case it

EAGLES v. SAMUELS.
304

Opinion of the Court.

had that effect. He has therefore failed to sustain the
burden of proof which was on him.
Secrecy and anonymity are not congenial to our traditions of procedure, nor in keeping with the regulations
under this Act. But as we have said, the range of inquiry
in a habeas corpus proceeding is limited. We are not sitting in review of action of federal agencies over which we
have the power of supervision. Cf. McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332. The function of habeas corpus is
not to correct a practice but only to ascertain whether the
procedure complained of has resulted in an unlawful detention. It is the impact of the procedure on the person
seeking the writ that is crucial. Whatever potentialities
of abuse a particular procedure may have, the case is at
an end if the challenged proceeding cannot be said to have
been so corrupted as to have made it unfair. Samuels
points to possibilities of abuse. But he fails to establish
prejudice in his case.
If, as was held in United States v. Cain, supra, the
panel must be restricted to answering ecclesiastical questions, Samuels should prevail. For the panel in question
not only gave the board information concerning the
seminary which Samuels. attended but also rendered an
advisory opinion on the bona fides of his claim. The argument for restricting the panel to ecclesiastical questions is
based on the thought that it is only on such subjects
that the board needs specialized information, while if the
board relies on a general advisory opinion of the panel, it
is devolving its administrative responsibility. See United
States v. Cain,supra, pp. 341-342.
It is plain that the local boards and the boards of appeal
may not abdicate their duty by delegating to others
the responsibility for making classifications. That is
their statutory function. Section 10 (a) (2). But no
such case is made out in this record. The city director
submitted the panel's report with the admonition that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

329 U. S.

was advisory only and that it was the board's responsibility
to make the classification. The recommendation of the
panel was followed. But Samuels was subsequently
given not only one but two hearings before the local board
and a hearing before the board of appeal. There is no
indication that either board relied solely on the panel's
report or considered itself bound by it. In fact both boards
received additional evidence submitted by Samuels and
considered it. The record does not bear out the suggestion
that either board was a rubber stamp for the panel.
Nor do we think that the range of inquiry and recommendation of the panel was too broad. If a panel is truly
expert in the field, its expertness is not necessarily limited
to knowledge of the theological schools, the course of training, and the educational practices and traditions. Its
acquaintance with the ministry of that faith and with the
norms of the profession may well give it special insight
into the claims of those seeking exemption. To draw the
line at questions technically ecclesiasticaLis to make a distinction which may be wholly arbitrary in terms of the
panel's expertness. A panel might act on irrelevancies;
it might usurp the functions of a board. We discover
nothing of the kind here. The fact that the board follows
the advice of the panel does not necessarily mean that it
functions in a subservient way. The fact is that the local
board and the board of appeal gave Samuels further hearings and received and considered all evidence submitted.
We find no procedural error of such magnitude as to warrant an uprooting of the entire administrative proceeding
in this collateral attack upon it.
Nor can we say there was no evidence to support the
final classification made by the board of appeal. Samuels'
statement that he was best fitted to be a Hebrew school
teacher and spiritual leader, the two-year interruption in
his education, his return to the day session of the seminary

EAGLES v. HOROWITZ.
304

Syllabus.

in the month when his selective service questionnaire was
returned, and the fact that the seminary in question was
apparently not preparing men exclusively for the rabbinate make questionable his claim that he was preparing in
good faith for the rabbinate. A registrant might seek a
theological school as a refuge for the duration of the war.
Congress did not create the exemption in § 5 (d) for him.
There was some evidence that this was Samuels' plan; and
that evidence, coupled with his demeanor and attitude,
might have seemed more persuasive to the boards than it
does in the cold record. Our inquiry is ended when we are
unable to say that the board flouted the command of Congress in denying Samuels the exemption.
Reversed.
EAGLES, POST COMMANDING OFFICER, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. HOROWITZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued November 21, 1946.-Decided December 23, 1946.

This is a companion case to Eagles v. U. S. ex rel. Samuels, ante, p. 304,
in which most of the questions raised here were ruled upon. The
principal differences in the facts are that the advisory panel was composed entirely of laymen, its report was marked "confidential," and
respondent was enlarged upon a recognizance. Held:
1. The case is not moot, for the reasons stated in the Samuels
case. P. 318.
2. The fact that the panel was composed entirely of laymen does
not require a different result from that reached in the Samuels
case. Pp. 322-323.
3. The fact that its report was marked "confidential" contrary
to the applicable regulations does not require a different result,
because the local board was not required to keep the report confidential and there is no showing that it did. P. 323.
151 F. 2d 801, reversed.

