YiEBRUARY, i8c'3.
.ofcongrefs as making fuch a fine recoverable for the ufc U. STATIS
,of the United States ; and yet, this would be the confeSiMms.
.quence of'conflruing it to extend to fines and penalties
accruing by law, not to government, but to individuals.
eV.

If a penalty recoverable by any individual, by affion
of debt, was to be confidered as defigned to be embraced
an
by the fecond fedion of the fupplemental af, frill
a"ion of debt in the name of the United States and
of the informer, would feem to be the remedy given b.y
,the acd.
The principle, reddenda Jingulafinguls, would ne applicable ; and it would feem to the court more proper
.to fuppofe the qui tam adtion, given in thiscafe, to be
the remedy, than an indilment.
The court therefore is of opinion that there is no error
in the judgment, and that it be affirmed.*

FENWICK v. SEARS'S ADMINISTRATORS.

•ENWIcK
IV.
'SEARS'S
ADMI NRS.

ERROR ,from.the judgment of the circuit court An adminiftra-'
of the diftrida of Columbia, fitting at Wafhington, in tor, havinghad
an adfion on the cafe on a foreign bill of exchange, by lieiraion in
the adminiflrators of the indorfee againft .tle indorfer. Maryland be,fore the feparatrin of the difof
bills
and
pleadings
the
in
appears
it
as
cafe,
The'
tridt of Columbia from the
exceptions, was as follows:
original ftates,

Francis Lewis Taney, at Paris, in France, drew the can
that not,'after
feparation,
following bill of exchange.: " Paris, 5 th'Auguft, r797t maintain an ac9 Sixty days after fightof this my fecond of exchange, tionin thatpart
".(firft and third not paid) pay to the order of Mr. Jo- of the diftrid
ceded by Ma,
. t.ryland, by vii~.
by vt ya Of thofe
The defendant' s counfel prayed
-tue
• that the affirmance might becofts. It was fuggefted by fome of the gentlemen of the bar, that the.lettr of adqueftion of giving coils againfl the United States would be fully argued miniftration
"
at;
hita
ut mutt
take
in the cafe of the United States v Hoe, at this term. The court there- oec
fore pu.poned the fubjed till that argument ihould. be had That caufe out new letter
however went off upon another ground without any argament on thc within the .di
queflion of coils And the court did not give any diredlions refPe&ing tri&.'
the cofls in the prefent cafe.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Frmwycr

-feph Fenwick the fum of three hundred and fifty dol.
9 lars, for value received in account, which charge as
" advifed by your moft obedient'fervt Fras. Leqo. Taney."
"6 To Nleffis. Ben. Stoddert and John Mafon, George.

n,.
OFARS's

AOMINRS.
V

" town, Maryland,"

Querc, whether
the a6ts ofa notary pubi c who

This bill was indorfed by Fenwick to George Sears, of

ce ,fishimfelf Baltimore, and on the 3 oth of March, 1798, it was pre..
to be tI.ly
corn- fented for acceptance, refufed, and protefted in the
niff.laned and

worn, arc va- ufual form for non-acceptance,

bySamuel Hanfon of Sa.

lid, ifhe be muel, .filing himfelf notary public for the county of
duly appointed, Montgomery in the ftate of Maryland, dwelling in
but not aftually

George-town, in faid county, duly cormiwioned anjf-worn.

fworn in due
form.?

On the 2d of June, 1798, payment of the bill Was de.

Whther, hetvcen contending partics, the

manded of the drawees by the fame notary, and refufed,
whereupon, on the fame day he protefted it in the ufual
form fvr non-payment. Fenwick, the indorfer, was at
the time of..indorfing,- and had been for ten years before,
a refident of France, but in the year iSoo he came to this
country, and on the 4 th of April, i go i, the plaintiffs
below brought fuit againif him here upon his indorfement,

certificate of a
notary public,
that
he is "duly
"commiloned

and fwicn,.a:nbe contraSited ?

The declaration had two counts, one upon the non-accept.

VhetheT a protef for nor-

ance of the bill, the other for money had and received.

of afayment
ill of ex chang
rnuft be made

The defendant below pleaded,

on the !aft day
of grace?
Whether the
reafortablenefs
bf notice be
matter of fadt,

ift. Non-a/un psit.

2d. That the plaintiffs t have not'obtained letters of
ccadminiftration on all and fingular the goods and chator matter of
iaw?
" tels, rights and credits, which were of the faid George,
Whether, on a cc I~t the time of his deceafe, to wit, at Wafhington coua,count for moty
aucy had and received, notice :' he

aforefaid, and this he ig ready to verify, wherefore

prays judgment," &c. to which the plaintiffs replied,
of non-accept- " that the faid George Sears, the inteftate, departed this
ance, and of
" life, in the town of Baltimore, in the county of Balnon-payment

I

timore, in the ftate of Maryland, which was at that
be necAary to
tharge an in- " time his place of 'refidence, on the
day of

it in the year of our Lord i8oo, inteftate ; and afteryea
wards, to wit, on the 8th day of November, in the
dorfement, that c, year aforefaid, adminiftration-of all and fingular the
the drawer had c goods and chattels, rights and credits of the faid intf)I6
right to
"t tate, was granted to the faid John 8tricker and Henry
r4w
dorfer who

knew, at' the
tiMeof in-

FEBRUARY, 18o3.
Payfon, in due form of law, by William Buchanar,
9- regilter of wilIs for Baltimore cou-ty afoctfaid ; an
" exemplification of the btters of adminiitration grantcd
to the faid Strickcr and Henry Payfon as aforefaid, duly
" authenticated, is now here to the court produced ; and
-t -is they are ready to verify ; wherefore, they pray
Fo this replication there wis a gcac" judgrn it," &c.
9 ral demurrer and joinder ; which demurrer was over" ruled by the court below.*
"9

On the trial of the iffue in fad, five bills of exception5
were taken by the defendant's counfel.
The firft ftoited that the defendant obje&ed to the fecond bill of the fet of exchange, going in evidence to the
juryi unlcfs the plaintiff firft offered evidence to account
for the firft and third of exchange, and to fhew that they
or either of them were not paid or paffd in tie courfe
of buinefs to fome other perfon who frill holds the fione,
but the court over-ruled the objetion, and fuffered the fecond bill to be read.
The fecond bill of exceptions ftated that the defendant objeded to the admiflion of the two protctfs in evideuce, becaufe, as he alleged, Samuel Hanfon of Samuel, was not a notary public on the 3 oth of March,
1798, or on the 2d of June, 1798, and to prove this the
defendant offered to give evidence to prove that the faid
Htanfon, previous to the 3 oth of March, 1798, had been
named and appointed by the governor of the flate of Maryland, by and with the advice and confent of the council of
Maryland, a notary public, but that he never did take
the oath or oaths prefcribed for a notary public to take,
until after the 3 d day of June, 1798, but the court were
of opinion that the evidence fo offered to prove that the
faid IHanfon w#as not a notary public, was not admiffible
for that purpofe, and refufed to let the faid evidence be
given.; and the protefts were permitted to be read to the
jury.
3 d.

That the defendant's counfel prayed the court to

dired the jury that the proteft for no-panztnt is not Iuch
* The jurifdiion of th feveral ftates of Virgina and Marylaud over
the territory cedcd by. them to the United Suites, for the fi:2t ot gowv,:merit, ceafed ont the firft Noaday of December, i8oo

eNwIC&

,A"

S'-,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FteciCK
V.

SEARs's
ADMirers.

a proteft as by the law of merchants is required) and was
not made within the time by the law and cuftom of
merchants required, and therefore that the plaintiffs cannot in this cafe recover of the defendant upon the faid
bill of exchange ; but the court refufed to give fuch inftrudion.
4 th. The fourth bill of exceptions flated at great
length the teftimony of feveral witueffes, tending to fhew
notice of the non-payment given to the defendant in this
country fome time in s8oo or i8oi, and that the defendant had made fome propofitions for fettling the bill. That
the drawees bad no funds of the drawer in their hands.
That the drawees held a deed from the drawer of certain
lands in Georgia .hnd North-Carolina, and an affignment
of a large demand on the French government, and of
another large demand againft an individual in France,
which they held in truft to pay certain debts due from
the drawer, and to pay him the furplus if any. That
they had permitted thedrawer to go to France and attend
to thefe claims and fell the lands, but that it was underflood between them and the drawer that he fhould bear
his own expenfes, but that they did not inform the defendant of that circumflance. That at the time he went
they thought favourably of the truft and wrote by the
drawer to the defendant, expreffing their opinion of it,
and inclofingto the defendant a power of attorney to aft
for them in the bufinefs and to receive any -monies that
might be recovered under the truft, and informing him
that the drawer would attend and look after the faid concerns. That at the time of prefenting the bill they had
not received any money under the truft, but were in advancc on that account That the bill was endorfed by
the dcfendant to enable the drawer to raife money in
France, for the purpofe of fupporting his neceffary expenfes whilft he was profecuting ,there thofe claims in
which the ,trawes were interefted as truftees, and that
the diawef fold them for that purpofe. That the defend,ant came to this counthy on bufinefs in Otober i8oo,
and returned to France in May 1802, and during his flay
in this country made Georgetown his place of refidence.

That after this bill was drawn, the drawer received in
F rance a fum of between 2000 and 3000 dollars, in the

FEBRUARY, i8o,

263

beginning of the year 1798; that during the years 1798, FE NwicK
I 799, and i8oo, French fhips were' permitted to fail die.
S-A Rs's
recty from America to France, for the purp6fe of carrying Frenchmen home ; this happened perhaps twice a
year or oftener. That during thefe years there was a
communication between America and France for letters,
&c. through the medium of London and Hamburgh.
That. after the fpring of 1798, American veffels were very often captured by the French armed veffels on the high
feas; and that at the time previous to the year i798,
American fhips were embargoed in France.
The defendant then prayed the court to initrudl the
jury that upon the whole evidence, as Rated, the plaintiffs, by their neglet in not giving notice to the defendant, the indorfer on the faid bill, that it was protefted
for nonacceptance and for non-payment, fooner than
they did, had releafed the defendant from all refponfibility on the fame, and could not recover thereon ; which
diredion was not given as prayed, the court being divided in opinion whether, in this cafe, the queftion of
reafonable notice was a matter of law to be determined
by the court, or a matter of fa- to be determined by the
jury. But the court were of opinion, and fo direted the
jury, that iftheyJhould be of opinion from the evidence, that.
the defendant who indatfed the bill drawn by F..L. Taney is
this fuit, knew, at the time of fiich indoifement, that thefaid
Taney had no efets in the hands of the drawers, on which

he could draw, notice of the non-payment, or of the proteft therefor, was not ne,:effary .to enable the plaintiffs tQ,
recover, in this adion, on the count for money, had and re.
Peived.

. The fifth bill of exceptions, after repeating
the evidence at length, Rtated that the defendant prayed the courtto inflrud the jury, that although they might be of opi.
nion that Fenwick, the defendant; knew at the time of hi4
indorf~ment that the drawer had no effeds in the handa
of the drawees on which he could draw, yet, to fupport
an azion, on the bill of exchange, againtft the defendant,
it was neceffary for the plaintiffs to give him reafonablk
.notice of the proteft of the bill for non-acceptance or
Pon-payment, oneor the other; and that under the cirouWtIAIkue of this eafe; notio to the. faid. Fonwi4, *

SUPREME COURT U. S.
lrNwicK
I.V
SEA^s's
A M\iNks.

fuch proteft for non-acceptance, or non-payment, in (Oetober t8oo, was not reafonable notice ; whereupon the
court were of opinion and dire&ed the jury that if they
were fatisfied from the ev dence that the defendant, at the

time he endorfed the bill, knew that Taney had no effeds
in the hands of the drawe'es, upon .which he could draw,

Rill it was neceffary for the plaintiffs, in order to fupport
their adion againft the defendant, upon thefir/i count in
the declaration, to give him reafonable notice of th,- protefi for non-acceptance or tor non-payment, one or the
other ; but whether under the circumitances of this cafe,
retfonable notice had been given, to the faid Fenwick, of
the faid proieft, the court gavw no opinion ;being divided
in opinion whether the fame was m,ttt',r of law to be determined by the court, or matter of fad. to be determined
by the jury.
Verdi(t for the plaintiff, 439 dollars, and 46 cents,
and judgment accordingly, to reverfe which the prefeni
vrit of error was brought by the defendant.
.Mafon, for plaintiff in error.
Sinms and C. Lee, for defendants.
Mafon, now waved the confideration of the firft bill of
exceptions, and relied upon the following points.
if. That the. protefts ought not to havc been admitted
to be given in evidence, becaufe, Hanfon who made them,
although he files himfelf notary public, was not a notary public.
2d. That' the proteft for non-paymerit wis not ?i
fufficient proteit to charge the indorfer, becaufe it was
not made within the days of grace, but on the day after
the lail day of grace.
3 d. That the notice of the non-payment given to the
defendant was not given in reafonable time i and did.not
come from an indorfee, but from Judah Hays, for whofe
ufe this fuit is brought. rhe court, and not the jury,
are to decide what is reafonable notice.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

205

4 th. The letters of adminiftration granted in Maryland,
before thcjurifdi61on over the diftridt of Columbia veft-

ed in the United States, do not authorize the plaintiffs

FFNWICne

..

SEARs's

to maintain an a~ion, as adminiftrators, within the dif- A
tri&, after the transfer of the jurifdidion.
1ff. That Hanfon was not a notary public, and therefore the proteft void.

A proteft by a perfon having due authority, is the only
evidence which cau be received of the non-acceptance or
non-payment of a foreign bill, to charge the indorfer.
,Kyd, 136

142. (87.

91.)

The only perfon who ea i have, fuch due authority is
a notary public. Kyd. 137. (87.)

With regard to inland bills and promiffory notes, the
flatute of Anne is adopted in Maryland, and the courts of
Maryland are governed by the fame rules, laws and authorities as the Englifh courts.
By the contitution of Maryland, §. 48, notaries public
are to be appointed by the governor and council. The
5 5 th fedion declares, " that any perfon appointed to any
CCoffice of profit or truft, fhall, before be enters on the execution thereof," take the oath therein prefcribed, 1' and

-fhall alfo fubfcribe a declaration of his belief in the
Chriftian religion."
The ad of affembly of Maryland, Feb. 1777, ch. S,
prefcribes an oath of office to be taken before the officer,
enters into the execution of his office.
The ad of affembly, Nov. 1779, c. 25, §. 2, afcer
tains his fees, and the 8th fe6lion prefcribes the form of
another oath to be taken, before entering on the "duties
of his office, under a penalty of C. ISo.
If a man affumes a chara&er which he does not poffefs, and a feal to which he has no right, his ats are nog
obligatoiy. No man can conftitute himfelf a notary
public. If not duly appointed and qualified, his proteft
is not better than the proteft of any other perfon. If
L 2

IS.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
FvxEwIcK
IV.
SEARS'S

ADMiNIS.

Hanfon had not taken the oaths, and if he could not a&".
until he had taken them, then the proteft is not by a

ilo-

tary ;. and ii was competent to the defendant to give evi-'
dence to prove that he had not taken the neceffary oaths.,
2d. The proteft for non-payment was made a day too
late. The bill was prefented for acceptance on the 3 oth
of March. The lafl day of grace was the jft of June.,
The proteft was oil the 2d of June.
The cultom as to the days of grace and the mode of
computation of time, is ftated in Kyd, 9, (6.) .
I The bill muft be prefented for payment %vithin the
Jays of gracq and proteftedon the laji day of grace. Kyd
136, 142, (87, 97-)
Although the bill be protefted for non-acceptance, yet
it muf: be prefented for payment at the time it becomes
dud and regularly protefted for non-payment.-, Andalthough a right of adion acerues upon the proteft for nonacceptance, yet the holder is held to have difcharged the
drawer and indorfers, unlefs he prefents it for payment
when due, and regularly protefts it for non-paymentiKyd, 117, 1'20,(76, 79,' &o.) 121, 137, 138, 151, 208,
3 d. The defendant had not fuch notice of the protefts.
for non-acceptance and non-payment, as to render him.L
liable.

The cafe of Brown v. Barry, 3 Dalls, 365, has no
relation to this cafe. That vgas a bill drawn in Amexica
upon a perfon in Europe. This is a bill drawn in Europe
on a perfon in America, and is therefore fubje t to the
laws of the place where drawn and indorfed, as to the
liability of the drawer and indorfers, The engagement.
of Fenwick, the defendant, was -made in France, and
his liability- is to be determined by the laws ther.
the
obligation of the drawer and indorfers is Only conditional; the holder muff do certain things to entitle him
to call upon them. Kyd, 17, (76.). He is bound to
give regular notice of non-acceptance to all the precedinZ
parties to whom he means to refort.

FEBRUARY, i 8oS,
As to the protefi beingfor want of funds in the hands
of the drawees, it goes only to difcharge the holder from
his obligation to give notice to the drawer, but does not
fuperfede the neceffity of notice to the indorfer. Kyd,
-129, 131, (82,

3.) 'T'here is reafon foi this diftindion.

A drawer may have a good reafon for drawing, although
he has no effeers in the hands of the draweq, but yet no
injury can refult to him by want of notice. But the in
dorfer may know that the drawer has been in the habi
of drawing; but may not know the exa& ftate of the
funds upon which he drew.* The endorfer endorfes on
the credit of the drawer ; and notice is neceffary to enable
him to take meafures to fecure himfelf from the drawer,
.As to thetime of notice-the non-acceptance was on
the 3 oth of March, 1798, and on that day the holder's
obligation to give notice, accrued, but he did not give it
until January or February, s8oJi. I he a6 of congrefs
did not flop the intercourfe between this couitry and
France, until Ift July, 1798. There is no evidenQe that
any attempt was made during this time to fend notice.
The bill, in feven months, found its way from France to
Georgetown, and what prevented its getting back again
in feven months more ? The evidence Lated in the bill of
exceptions fhews that there was always a circaitous route
by which letters and papers might have got to France.
There is alfo evidence that thedrawer was able to pay
.for fome time after the drawing the bill, and that he afterwards left France. Notice muff be given by the indorfee himfeilf, Kyd, x26, (79, 8o.) The only notice
which was given in this cafe, was by Judah Hays, who
is not a party on the bill.
The Court, and not the jury, ought to have decided the

queftion of reafonable notice, or due diligence. It is a
Sueftion of law. Kyd 126, 127, (79, 80.) Notice muft
be given by the firfi poft. The 'courtsin Maryland have
always fo decided. If the court have not decided the
queftion of due diligence they have erred. They have
alfo erred in the opinion which they did give. They admit that reafonable notice is necefflary to enable the plain.
tiffs to recover upon the bill on the firft count, but that,
in cafe the defendant below knew. that the drawer had n
See

vanson bills,. 62 and 67, Amer. editiop.

FNwic'K-

'.

SEA P.S'S
fMTNRI.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VENWICK

funds in the hands of thie drawees, it is not neceflry to

SPARs's
A',Vt T S.

cover on the count fir money bad and received. It is not
known on what grounds the court below could take fuch

prove fuch notice in order to enable the plaintiffs to re.

a diftindlio,.

There was certainly nothing in the evi-

dence which could fupport fuch an opinion. If the holder
had been guilty of fuch negligence as to difcharge the
indorfer from his liability upon the bill, he was not entitlcd to recover upon either count. It was an obje4ion

which went to the whole merits of the cafe ; and it is
not like the cafe where a fccurity or inftrument may be

vacated, but the debt frill remain.
The letters of adminifiration granted in Mary4 th.
land (lid not authorize the plaintiffs to adminifter affets
in the difiri& of Columbia.
The laws of Maryland, which were adopted by con-

grefs for this diftri6t, do not authorize an adminiltration
of affets under letters of adminiftration granted in another
Rate. And fuch has been the uniform courfe of decifions
in the courts of Maryland ; becaufe, by the teftamentary
laws of Maryland, the adminiftrator is to give bond, and
render an' account of his adminiftration ; and the affets
are to be diftributed in the manner prefcribed by law.
Although this is the law of Maryland, and the laws of
1laryland have been adopted in this diftri6t by congrefs ;
yet they do not operate as laws of Maryland, but as laws
of the United States. And although the law is the fame,
yet the jurifdifion is different. This .diftri&, and the
Rate of Maryland, are to each other as feparate tates.
Simms,for defendants in error.

ift. As to the obje~tion that the notary had not taken
the neceffary oaths.
It is believed that no cafe can be produced to fupport
this exception. It would bi extremely incofivenient if the
atts of a comrniffioned minifterial officer, fhould be confidered as invalid, becaufe he had negle~ted to take an
oath prefcribed by law.*

~Note.

See the care of ¢l.rflrn

wciche, Rep 377,

,

Slatford inithz exewhcqer, i Lut-

'vo edi;oi, Ai,
"6

wherv ii w4 held that the town

clerk

FEBRUARY, 18o.
By the a& of Affembly of 1779, c. 25, §.8, a penalty FENWIC
I.
is enaded for not taking the oath there mentioned. This
does not make void the ads of the officer, if he negle&s SIEARs ,
to take the' oath required, but only fubje&s him to the ADmu'iN.
penalty, for aaing without taking it. From this it may
be inferred that the legiflature confidered his ads as valid.
The court did not err in refufing the evidence offered,
becaufe it was an attempt to prove a negative. The oath
might have been taken before any judge, or juftice of the
peace in the ifate of Maryland, or any alderman in the
city of Annapolis. The law does not require fuch oath
to be recorded, or depofited in any particular place. A party can niever be called upon tb prove that a notary public,
who protefts a bill of exchange, was duly qualified to
make fuch a proteft; confequently the court ought not
to admit evidence that he was not, fo as to throw the
burden of proof upon the other party. There is no penalty prefcribed for not taking the oaths required by the conititution of Maryland, and by the aa of 17 79, but it does
not follow from that circumifance, that the ads of the
oflficer, duly appointed and commiffioned, would be void
by his not having taken the oaths, becaufe he might be
indi&ed and punifhed for his contempt of the law, and his
.negle of duty. Innocent people ought not to fuffer by
his negligence, efpecially as they have no means of know..
ing whether he had taken the oaths or not. The public
commiffion from the proper authority is all that can. be
yequired to proted the rights of third perfons.
It is true that in the paffage cited from Kyd 136, (87.)
it is faid, that "'the perfon whofe Qffice it is to do thefe
'i a&s"

(that is make protefts, &c.)

"

is in common lan-

I guage, termed a ptsblic notary," but it is alfo faid in
Evans 94, that when there is no public notary in the place;
$1he proteft may be made by any other perfon.
2d.

tr~nt.

As to the time of making the proteft for non-pay-

The time when a proteft ought to be made, depends
znuch on the cuftom of the place. 4 Bac. ob. Guilim's
rlemk of Oxford was entitled to recover his fecs accruing, before he had
taken the oaths.

270
Y 2WwtK

SV.

SARs'S
ADNINRS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Ed. 687. The time in Efigland was for a long while ufifettied. .In Salk. 132, Hill v. 'Lewis, it was determined that,
with refpe6 to foreign bills, the drawee had three days
of grace to pay them in, and that no demand need be made
Still the expirationof the three days, confequently that the
proteft need not be made till after the third day of grace.
But in the cafe of Tafel v. Lewis, Ld. Ray. 743, it was
held that the time of payment is the laft of the three days,
and that the demand ought to be madepn that day. In a
late cafe of Leflty, v. Mills, 4 Term, Rep, 173, Ld. IKenyon
held that the acceptor had till the laft moment of the laft
day of grace to pay the bill, confequently the proteft could
not be made till the day after. But Buller held that the
acceptor was bound to pay the bill, on demand, on any
rt orf the third day of grace, and that the bill ought to
protefted on that day, and it is believed that fuch is now
the eftablifhed cuftom in England.
Kyd, 120, 121,
(7,9, 80.)

But the cuftom of merchants in the United States dif.
fers in tome refpeas from the cuftom of merchants in
England. Brown v. Barry, 3 Dal 365, 368. It is believed that, in the United States, the cuftom is to proteft
on the day after the laft day of grace. Such is the cuftom
in the banks -of Alexandria and Columbia, in the cafe of
promiffory notes ; and no difference is known in that refped between promiffory notes and bills of' exchange.
'There is no reafon why a difference Thould exift, as the
three days of grace ate allowed in one as well as in the
other.
But in this cafe, the bill was protefted for non-accept.
ance and the defendant thereupon became liable to the
aCtion of the plaintiff. In an aaion brought upon the
non-acceptance, it is not neceffary to aver a demand or
proteft for non-payment on the day when the bill becomes
due , and what it is not neceffary to aver, it is not neceffary
to prove ; Lilly's Ent. SS, Dunflarv. Pierce, which was a
cafe on a demurrer. tq, the declaration; demurrer overruled, and judgment atdirmed in the exchequer.
But bad the bill been accepted, then a proteft for non.
payment would have been abfolutely neceffary. Evans 66,,
Kyd. 140, Doug. 55, Aijord ,. Mayer. Buller Nt, .

FEBRUAKY, 1803.
169.

Brightv. Purrier. Kyd, 110, III.

3 Wil. 16, FNtwrlc'6
8EARS'S

3. Under the circumftances of the prefent cafe- the ADMIxRS.
plaintiffs were not bound to give the defendant notice at
all ; the jury having found in fubftance, that at the time.
tde defendant indorfed the bill, he knew that the drawer
had no effe&s in the hands of the drawees ; and was therefore guilty of a fraud on the plaintiff's inteftate, in felling
him the bill. The plaintiffs therefore had a right to recover on the count for money had and received.
Befides, the reafon of the rule which difpenfes with notice to the drawer, when the drawees have no effeas, applies as firongly to the indorfer who knows that fad, as
to the drawer. Notice to fuch a indorfer can be of no
benefit, becaufe he knew, at the time of indorfing, that the
bill would not be paid, and therefore muff have taken fecurity from the drawer, or if he did not, it was his own
fault. By knowing. at the time of indorfing that the
drawees had no funds of the drawer in their hands, he
virtually had notice of the non-acceptance and non-payment. The rule, which requires notice to an indorfer, is
made for his protedion and benefit ; and ought not to be
Qonverted into the means of enabling him to pradice a
fraud.
The opinion of the court below, that although notice
might be neceffary in order to fupport an af'ion on the bill
upon the firft count, yet it was not neceffary to maintaia
the count for money had and received, was certainly corre&, and fully warranted by the cafe of Bickerdike v.
Bol/man, I Term rep, 408, 409, 410. Inthat cafe Afhhurft, juftice, fays ;that notice is not neceffary to the
drawer when he has no effeds'in the hands; of the
drawee; "for it is a fraud in itlf, and if that can be
proved, the notice may be difpenfed with." Kyd t 29.
(82.)Evans 59. Every indorfer is; to his indorfee, as the
drawer of a new bill. Kyd .113. (72.) i Salk. 133. Harry v. Perrit, 2 Shower 5o.
Claxton v. Swift, and in
Heflin v;'Adamfon, 2 Burr, 674, Lord Mansfield fays,
.A that when a bill of exchange is indorfed, by, the perfon
" to whom it. was payable; as between the indorfer and
I intorfee, it is a new bill of exchange, ancl the indorfer

SUPREME COURT 11. S.
'Owtci

1V.

SEARS's
ADmis.

" ftands in theplace of-the drawer."

If, therefore, the

indorfer, at the time he transfers a bill, :knows that the
drawer has no effe~as in the hands of the drawee, he is
as guilty of fraud as the drawer himfelf; and in all cafes

where money is obtained from another by fraug of any
kind it may be recovered back in an adion for money had
and received. 2 Bur. x102. Mofes v. Macferlan. Salk.
28. HaJerv. Wallis. And in the cafe before cited of Bickerdike v. Bollman. i frerm rep. 41o, Buller, juftice, fays,

Betdeis, in the prefent cafe, as the plaintiff's counfel
"have truly argued, the queftion is not, whether an ac" tion could be maintained on the bill itf'If, but whether
" the want of notice extingujhes the debt.

As to which

"tthe cafe is this, A. not having any effeds in C.'s hands,
" draws a bill of exchange for ,C. oo on him, in favour
,.of B. for value received. Now if C. does not accept,
at and B. does not give notice to A. there is an end of the
c bi.l. Then how does the cafe ftand .?A. has I.1oo of
6 B.'s in his hands, without any confideration, which,
49 therefore, B. may undoubtedly recover in an.acionfor mo,ney had and received."

The reafoning in that cafe applies exactly to the pre.
fent. 'Here the defendant Fenwick, by his indorfement of
the bill, acknowledges that he has received its amount.
He has received of the inteflate 350 dollars, without
any confideration, and, therefore, even although the remedy on the bill might have been loft, he ought to recover
the amount of the confideration on the count for money
had and received.
It is true, that in the cafe of Goodall v. Dolley. r 7i'erm
rep. 712. it is faid that the fa& of the drawer's having no
funds in the hands of the drawee, would not difcharge
the obligation of the holder to give notice to the indcrftr,
to whom he meant to refort ; yet it is a lfo exprefsly flated
that the indozfer was ignorant of all the circumnflances of the
caf,. That opinion, therefore, can not affed the prefent
cafe in which the indorfer knew the circumnfances.

As to the queftion whether reafonable notice is matter
of law to be determined by the court, or matter o fa&t
to be determined by the jury: The praffice in England,
until lately, was for the jury to determine, by the cir-

FEBRUARY, 19o3.
cumfances of each particular cafe, what time was rea-

FzswtcS

fonably to be allowed either. for making demand or giving
notice. Kyd, 127. (77.) Doug. 5I15,(497.) Rud v. Lang-

SFARS'S

flafe.

Doug. 681.,

R, ton v. Afpinall.

In the cafe of Tindall v. Brown, i T mnrep. 167.
Lord Manrfieldfays, that " what is reafonable notice is
"partly a queftion of fad, and partly a queftion ot law.
.
It may depend in fome meafure on fads ; fuch asthe
" diftance at which the parties live from each other, the
But whenever a rule can, be
4 courfe of the pofts, &c.
" laid down with refped to this reafonablenefs,'that fhould
" be decided by the court, and adhered to by every one
And, Aflbbur,/, juflice, laid
"c for the fake of certainty."
it was " of dangerous confequence to lay it down,as a
i general rule, that the jury fhould judge of the reafon#.
blenefs of time. It ought to be fettled asa queftion of
law. If the jury were to determine this queftion in,
tall cafes, it would be produdive of endlcfs uncer• tainty."
It appears to have been the opinion of both thefe judges,
that there were certain cafes in which it was proper for
the jury to determine on the reafonablenefs of notice ;
but that in cafes where a rule can be laid down, the court
No certain rule caiwbe
ought to decide the queftion.
laid down, except in cafes where the parties live in the
fame place, or where there is a conftant and regular com
munication by poft between them.

In a much later cafe 2. H. Blacy]Ione's rep. 569, it was
determined that what 'was reafonable time, muff depend
on the particular circumftances, and it muft be always for
the jury to determine whether any laches is to be imputed
to the plaintiff.
In the cafe of Mackie v. Davis, 2. W'af!, 231, Car.
rington, juftice; fays " whether due dili'gence had been
'" ufed bythe affignee to recover againft the obligor would
" neceffarily be a matter- in iffue between the parties, and
" would, upon all the circumrftnces of the cafe, be de.

"cided by the jury."
1. Da. 252, if to the fame ei'eOl.

A Gafe to the fame

SUPREME COURT U. S.

274

FNWcIcK effe& alfo has been mentioned as having been decided
W,.
in the circuit -court of the United States, in Virginia, by
SSARS'S judge Wilfon.
AD, I NR s.
vThe

inftru&ion of the court below to the jury, that
reafonable notice was neceffary to charge the defendant
on the firft count, -was not objeded to by' the plaintiff's
cotinfel ; but the court not having inftru(ted them whether' the notice wa's or was not reaforiable, and a general
yerdia for the plaintiffs having been giv 6 n, it is to be
prefumed that the jury thought the notice was reafon able
under all the cixcumftances; and they were certainly competent to decide that queftion,
The decifions, that notice mufl come only from the
indorfee or.the'holder, have been fince over-ruled. Evansi 57.
3. As to the letters of adminiftration.
An adminiftrator, in the- United States, ought not to
be confidered precifely,in the fame point of view as in
England.i
In England, he is the fervant or agent of the ordinary,
and ats in his place and. fead.
In the United States, he is th reprefcntative of the
inteftate ; and all the rights and credits of the inteftate
are vefted in him.
Formerly in England, the goods of an inteftate were
difpofed of by the bihop or ordinary to pious ufes. It
wag not-until the ftatute, of 13 th. Ed. i. c. 19, that the
bifhop 'or'ordinary was compelled to fatisfy the debts of
the inteftate as far as the goods, which came to his hands,
would extend.
After'this flatute, an a&ion might be brought againft
'the ordinary in the fame manner as again.f an executor;
but, he was not compellable to grant adminiftration until
the Ratute of 3 J, Ed. 3 d. c. ii.
From thls relation between the ordinary and the adininiftraior he poNWer of the latter was neceffarily limited
-

.1

FEBRUARY, 1803.
by the jurifdi&ion of the former. But the act of congrefs FEzwicx
W.
concerning the diftri& of Columbia puts the queflion out
of doubt. By that a&, the laws of Maryland arc continu- SrARS'S
ed in force in this, part of the diftrit ; of courfe, all ADr0iNRs.
rights acquired under the laws of Maryland remained valid. It was not the intention of congrefs to diveft any
rights which had been acquired under thofe laws. If the
feparAtion of the diftri& from Maryland took away the
tight which the plaintiffs before poffeffed of taking poffeflion of the property and colleding the debts of the-inteftate, in this part of the diftri&, under their letters of
adminiftration granted in Baltimore county, it would
have the fame effe& upon letters granted by the orphan's
courts of Montgomery and Prince George'.s counties, before the feparation, to perfonsirefident in the diftri& fo
that their ads, done fince the feparation, are unauthorizeA,
and they cannot lawfully a& until ne* adminiftration Has
been taken out from the orphan's court withir the diftrid.
The inconvenience, expenfe and oppreffioi of fuch a conftru&ion, are too obvious to admit the fuppofition that it
was within the intention of congrefs.
Thefe letters were taken out from the proper authority
and at the time, vefted a right in the plaintiffs to adminifter
the affets within this part of the diftri.
C. Lee, on the fame fide.
i ft.. As to the letters of adminiftration.
Admitting that letters of adminifiration, granted out
of the ftate of Maryland, will not authorize an adminiftration of affets within the ftate, yet in this cafe the letters were granted in Maryland while this diftri& was part
of Maryland, before the ift Monday of December i8oo,
and did once authorize an adminiftration of the affeta
here. A right was completely vefted in the plaintiffs.
The laws of Maryland are as fully in operation in this
diftri& as they were or are in the ftate of Maryland.
Congrefs could not mean to diveft rights completely vefted.
2d. As to the fecond bill of exceptions.
It is'admitted that Hanfon was duly appointed notary,
but the objedion is that he had not taken the oath. The

116
yrvwicz
_.

SARS'S
ADMINRS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

exception is not to the opinion of the court that he was
not duly qualified to ad; but fimiply that it was not com.
petent for the defendant to give the evidence offered to
prove that he had' not taken the oaths. rhe intention
"of an oath is only to impofe an additional obligation onthe officer. It is a matter between the officer and the
government; and generally a penalty is impofed for
not taking it; but the not taking the oath does not
make the aa void. Suppofe a member of the legiflature
ihould not take the oath prefcribed ; this would not vacate
a law to which he had given his affent. Such a doarine
would produce infinite inconvenience. No time is limited
for making the objedion ; and twenty years after an ak
has been done, it may be offered to be proved that the
officer did not take the oath ; if the court would do right
in refutfing fuch evidence in that cafe, they were right in
refutfing it in the prefent.
3 d. The third billof exceptioh6 is, that the court admitted the proteft. for non-payment to go to the jury,
when it was not made iih due time.

The adion being for non-acceptance, and not on the
proteft for von-payment ; it was not neceffary to produce
that proteft at all. The objetion is that it was not
made on the lafi day of grace, but on the day after.
The cuftom is different in different.countries. From
the general pra&ic6 of the. banks, it may be confidered
as the general rule in this country to protlft on the day
after the laft day of grace.
The proteft for non-acceptance is not objeded to; it
was made on the day on which the bill .was prefented.
The court oihly refufed to give 'the ,dire&ion as prayed,
but gave co opinion that the proteft was a good one.
4 th.

As to the fourth, bill of exceptions.

This reccord does not ftate the whole evidence in the
It is true it'is laid that this is all the evidence
given of notice ; but it does not ftate what other evidence

caufe.

there might be to excufe the want of notice.

This ex.

FEBRUARY, i 8og.
ception mray be divided into three points; firit, as to the FE4WIC-K
v.
opinion prayed ; tecond, as to the condud of the court in
notgiving an opinion as to part of'the prayer, and thirdly, S-rAIts's
ADMIN RS.
as to the opinion which the court did give.
The prayer is to inflru&i the jury that it was neceffary
to prove notice ot non-payment as well as of non-acceptance. The plaintiffs, if any body, had a right to complain of the opinion of the court, in as much as it did
not declare notice of non-payment to be unneceffary. But
they have waved their right to except. The opinion
given is what is excepted to, and that was given only on
the count for money had and received.
The bill and indorfement are ftated to have been made
in France. The law of Prance then is the Lex Loci, by
which this caufe is to be decided, and by' which the liability of the indorfer is to be afcertained. By that law
no notice is neceffary to the drawer or indorfer, if there
are no effeds of the drawer, or of the indorfer, in the
hands of the drawee. Evans 6o, 62.
And what is meant.by funds, is not fecurities lodged
for raifing money, upon which the money has not beeiv
raifed; but is money in account. 2 tfUp, rep. 515. Evant
62.

As to the ground of fraud, the court left it to the jury
to decide whether the defendant knew that the drawer had
no funds in the hands of the drawees. If he did know
it, iA it not as much a fraud as in the cafe of a drawer
drawing without funds? It is in fad an accumulated
fraud. If, according to juftice Afhhurft, one is a fraud,
the other muft be a greater fraud.
,4.Ato due diligence, the exception is not. that no notice
was given, but that it was not given in due time. No
doubt but that by the laws in England, due notice is neceffary as a generalrule. But to this there are exceptions,
There is an American law on this fubje&, which is,
that in fome cafes the jury, and not the court, is to occide what is laches. When a particular cafd arifes, and
a variety of circumftances are given in evidence in ex-

-'118

FENwicK
•,.
SEARS'S
ADMT'NS.

'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

cufe for not giving notice fooner, there, by the Americat
praffice, the jury are to decide. This appears by the decifions in Pennfylvania down to the year 1795. 1 Dallas,.
Robertfon v. Vogle. 2 Dal. r58. Bank of N. America v.
.~'
M'Knight. 2 Dad. i92. 233. I Call's rep. 123. M'Wi.
..
ham :sv . Sm ith.
In this country the line is more diftinfly- drawn between court and jury than it is in England. By the 9 tk,
article of the amendments to the conifitution, a matter
once tried by a jury fhall not be otherwife re-examined
than by a jury according to the rules of the common
law. If the court now make a rule as to what is due diligence in this cafe, they will without a jury try a faa
which has once been decided by -the jury in the court
below.
If the queftion involve matter of faa 'with the law,
the jury mqdi decide the fads ; and it is no error in the
court ito f'uffcr them to decide the law alfo at the fame
time.. When a rule can be laid down, then the court isto ftate
the rule. But where that can not be done then it may be
left to the jury.. This is all that lord Mansfield fays in
in the cafe of Vindall v. Brown.
5 th i The fifth is an exception to the opinion which
the court gave, and not to thelcondu& of the court in
not giving an opinion.
rhe opinion given was againft
the plaintiffs below, and they alone had a right to except

to it.

There was a decifion of chief juftice Jay, given upon
the circuit, fimilar to that given by judge Wilfon, that
the jury and not the court were to judge of the validity
of Cxcufes for giving notice.
The judgment ought not to be reverfed becautfe the
court below did give an improper. inftrukion'to the jury.
It is hoped that the court will decide the queftion of
iotice as it is of great importance that a general rule
Thould be rftablified and underRood.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

279

qMfon in reply.

FEIw ICK
IV.

ift. As to the letters teftamentary.
Antecedent to the revolution the teftamentary affairs
in the fRate of Maryland were under the fuperintendance
of a commiffary general, who had a deputy in each county.
If there were Lona notabilia in feveral counties, the adminiftration was granted by the commiffary general.
But if the goods of the inteftate were all in one county
it might be granted by the deputy commiffarr of that
county. By the new fyftem of teftamentary laws, 1798
ch. 1I. § 3. the affets in Maryland connot be adminiflered but by letters of adminiftration granted in Maryland.
In the diftri6 of Columbia, if a man now die ipteftate,
the adminiflration muff be granted in the diffri&The laws of Maryland do not operate in the diftri& as
laws of Maryland, but as laws of the United States
Their obligatory force is not derived from the Rate ot
Maryland, but from the United States.
"Does the faCt that the letters were granted before the
feparation of the diftri& from. Maryland, make any difference? If any right had vefted, what was it ? Was it
a right to fue Fenwick who was ther in France, and who
came to the diftriL after its feparation.
But no right at all had vefted in the plaintiffs. If the
feparati6n had not taken -place, and Fenwiqk had come,
they might have fued; but as it had taken place before
he came, they can not.
By the laws of this part of the diftri&, the adminiftra.
tor muff give bond duly to adminifter the eftate, and to
pay the debts pari palu. He muft advertife in a certain
manner, &c. The only evil refulting from this conftruction of. the law is, that plaintiffs muff take out letters of
adminiftration here.

2d. As to the fecond bill of exceptions. The qucftion'
is, whether Hanfon was a notary before.he took the oath

SEARS'S
ADMINRt .

"Y -

SUPREME COURT U.- S.
FitNwic
I,.
SARS'S
ADM TNRS.

"

'

preferibed by the law of 1779. rhe conflitution fays,
that before he enters upon the execution of the duties of
his office he hall take the oath of allegiance. The law
of 1779 fays, he fhall take the other oath therein prefcribed, and if he ats without having taken it he fhall
he fubjed to a penalty. The conftitution and the law
are to be coupled tbgether, and then the taking the oath
rpefcribed by. the'ad of 1779, becomes a pre. requifite to
his capacity to a& as notary.
3 d. The third bill of exceptions is that the proteft for
non~payment was not a proper one to go to the jury. It
-was not in itfelf evidence. It is no anfwer to fay that no
proteft for non-payment was neceffary; the counfel below
did not chufe to rifk their caufe without it. If the opinion of the. court is erroneous, and if the proteft was
improperly admitted to go to the jury, the judgment mnuft
be reverfed. It may be a good reafon why the court
let it go to the jury, that it was not neThould
ceffary. refufe
It istotherefore
unimportant to decide whether
But that it was neceffary apor
not.
neceffary
it was
pearsin Kyd, 120, 137, 13Q,'(77, 87. )

As to the cafe of the notary who refufed fix pence for
noting the bill, 4 Term rep. 173. It is the opinion of
lord Kenyon only, that the acceptor had till the laft moment of the laft day of grace to pay the bill; and that
was the cafe of an inland bill, and de ided exprefsly upon
the ftatute of William. But Buller Rates the law to be
otherwife on a foreign bill, and that, by the cuftom, the
bill is payable at any reafonable time of the laft day of
grace when demanded. And the law is fo ftated in Kyd,
The pra6tice in Alexandria may be as Rated,
'12I, (78.)
but in Baltimore they proteft on the 3 d day, in banking
hours, There-is a difference between the law refpeding
inland and foreign bills; and this difference arifes from
the ftatute of William, which gives the proteft ot inland
bills and requires it to be made after the expiration of
the three days, Kyd, t5z, (91.) It is upon this ftatute,
which is in force in Maryland, that the banks have adopted the praatice of protefting promiffory notes on the day
after the expiration of the three days of grace. A promiffory note as foon as it is indorfed_ becomes an inland
bill of exchange.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

281

4 th. It is objected to the fourth bill of exceptions that FENwicit
..
it does not contain the whole evidence. But if a bill of
exceptions ftates evidence, it has been decided by this court SEA RS'S
that it is prefumtd to ifate the whole evidence. 3 Dal. 19, ADM 1NIS,

38, Bingham v. Cabott.

It is faid that the exception is not to the refufal of the
prayer, but to the opinion which was given. If the opinion prayed was corre&, and the court refufed to give it,
or, by being divided, failed togive the inftrudion to the
jury as prayed, it is error. The court will difregard the
inaccurate form of words, and come at the fuDftance of
the exception.
As to the want of funds in the hands of the drawees,

the court are to prefume that the whole evidence is fiated
in the exception. We deny the principle that fuch funds
can be only money in account. There was reafon for
Fenwick to believe that the drawees had funds, and he
ought therefore certainly to have had notice. There is
not the leaft ground for a fufpicion of fraud in Fenwick.
As to the count for money had and received, it is a com-

mon law count; but upon that count the plaintiffs can
not recover by means of evidence refulting from that
bill, unlefs they have done every thing to entitle them to
recover upon the bill itfelf, by ufing.due diligence, giving
due notice, &c.
It is faid that the ihdorfement wa: made in Frane, and
therefore the law of France is to decide the refponfibility
of the indorfer ; and that by that law notice is not neceffary to the indorfer, if neither the indorfer nor the drawer has funds in the hands of the drawee; and Evans is
cited as the authority. It is doubted whether Evans is
correa in that pofition; but whether corre&l or not, it
does not apply, becaufe the money-was to be paid here,
and the contraCt is perfonal. If Fenwick had been fued in
France it might have applied; but being fued here, the
law of this country muft decide his cafe.
As to the queftions what is due notice, and whether it
be a matter of fa & or of law, the deciflons cited from
DalIs are no authorities in this cafe. They all-turned
N2

SUPREME COURT IT. S.
upon the laws of particular ftates. This court is to be
governed by.the law of the place vhere the tranfafion
SA Rs's
happened, unle'fs where the laws of the United States
A
,lts.j apply. The court in this cafe are to decide by the laws
as they exift in Maryland ; and there the laws of England
refpedfing bills of exchange and promiffory notes have al,ways been the riles of decifion. We are not in Maryland to be governed by whimfical opinions dravn frofft
either Pennfylvania or Virginia.. Virginia has i6t ben
remarkable for her progrefs in commerce ; and were I to
'form a fy'fem of commercial law, I flbould certainly'n~t
draw it from *thefantaftical opinions adopted in either df
thofe ftates.
iENWCK
IV.

In Englhnd, what is due notice has been and is fettled
and determined to be matter of law to be decided by the
court
On the 2'gth of February, The Court gave the follo*ing judgment.
"9

It is decre ed by the court that the defendants Stricker

and Payfon, not havin'g obtained letters of adminifration
( in the dflriRl f Colimbia, were not competent to main"c

If tain this afion ; and that the circuit court of the
- United States in and for the faid di{ltri& erred in overruling the demurrer. It is therefore cotifidered by the
" court, that the judgment of the faid circuit court, on
" the faid demurrer, be, and the fame is hereby reverfed,
" and that judgment thereon be rendered for the defend" ant in the original alion."'*

THOMPSON v. JAMESON.

THomPSON

Iv.

JAMESoN.
An adion of

ERROR from the circuit court of the diftri&"of
Columbia, fitting in Alexandria.
The reporter was not in court when this judgment was entered, but

debt for £ 86o he has underftoad that the court did not affign the reafons' upon which.
zz z, founded their opinion was grounded; and gave no opinion upon the '4thir poWiWs
on a dccree in Ste Evan. ontills, 67,68, 6,, 70, W 71, as to otic.

