194

GtAILK

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the latter cafe, were not involved in the decifion of the
former,

YOUNG,

&Co.
'-

-'

On the fecond bill of exceptions, the only real new
point made, is, whether, the aion is maintainable un-

lefs Robert Young and co. had offered to return and reafiign the note before the inflitution of the fuit.
Unqueftionably 'Clark is entitled to the benefit of the
note, but as it was no extinguifhment of the original
caufe of a&ion, there was no abfolute neceffity to prove
an offer of the note before the inftitution of the fuit.
Indeed it does not appear, in this bill of, exceptions, whether the note wa6 merely a collateral fecurity, or a conditional payment. This is'no where ftated pofitively. In
the firft opinion of the court it is ftated hypothetically,
and that opihion muft be confidered on the prefumptiort
that fuch was the faft. But no fuch prefumption is raifed
refpe&fing the fecond bill.
Judgrneht affirmed with cofiu.

WILSON
'V.

WILSON

LENOX AND MAITLAND.

LENOX& AL.

A declaration
ERROR to the circuit court of the diftriCt 6f
in
thedebt,
laiw ofunder Columbia fitting at Alexandria, in a judgment obtained
tirginia, upon by the prefent defendants in error, againft the plaintiff

in
error, n.an a~tion of debt, as indorfer of a bill of ext exchange
of
p.300
forchange folfterling, drawn on the 2d January-,
a protefted bill

teepnctipal,

1o9, at Alexandria, by A. and W. Ranmay, on Find-

ley, Bannatyne and co. London, at ninety days fight, payptft/,mull able to Wilfon, the plaintiff in error, and by him ina'erthofe
the amut
prefented for
o ac-.
c
a peetd
'of
coil dorfed to the defendants. This biil was
refufed,
and
x799,
February,
of
28th
ceptance on the
of proteft.
mages and c

,Quee, whether and on the iftof June, 1799, protefted for non-payment.

ifthe
was "of a plea.that he render unto them
!*
bill ofholder
ex- of The
49 thedeclaration
fum of 4.3oo
an f
fcerling, with damages, intereft and
ragar
h
o
of proteft, of
on a protefted bill of exchange, which
Je noticeftet
to '4 charges

FEBRUARY, x8o3.

195

*' to them he owes, and from thlem unjufily detains,",and WILSON?
V.
goes on -to ftate the drawing of the bill of exchange "ac44 cording Jo the cujtom of merchants," the indorfement by LE Nox&AA..
i'
Wilfon t-,, Lenox and Maitland; the refufal of Findley, _
of
indorfer
the
prefentbeing
its
non-payon
the
bill
the
accept
to
co.
and
Bannatyne
the
by
meet
ed for acceptance (but does not ftate a proteft for nonacceptance, nor notice of the non-acceptance given toWil- drawee, charge
to the cuflom the bill in ac-.
fon) and the proteft, " in dueform, according
.
"of.merchants," for non-payment; " of which the faid agint currenthe
day of drawer, and
defendant afterwards, to wit, on the
in the year-aforefaid, at the town and county upon the whole
'
6
that account
aforefaid, had notice, whereby, and by force of the Of
the balance due
" a&i of affembly of the commonwealth of Virginia, i1islefs than the
" fuch cafe made and provided, a&ion accrued to the amount of the:
inffaid plaintiffs, to demand and have of the faid defend- bill, theisthere.o300 fterling, 'with damages, in-dorfer
" ant the (aid (um of
t
"terefq and charges of protejl; neverthelefs, the faid e- byWdifchargedthe
dif.
is
indorfer
paid
naot
bath
required,
often
thereto
although
fendanti
the
"1unto the faid plaintiffs the faid furn of three hundred charged by
-pounds fterling, with damages, interejI and charges o of part reci-t
"protefo, but the fame to pay hath hitherto refufed, and, the drawer, af.
doth refufe, to the damage of the plaintiffs, 75o ter duetonoice
" frill
given the
"dollars, and thereupon they bring fuit, &c."
indorfer t it b
Whether
The a& of affembly of Virginia, which gives the ac- neceffary to
a protetn
tion of det on a protefl:ed bill of exchange (revifed code, aver
for non-acp. 12 1). provides, " that where any bill of exchange is or ceptance in an
"thall be drawn for the payment of any furn of money, action on pro" in which the value is or- .hall be .expreffed to be re- tefl for nonprotefted for non-ac- payment?.
"ceived, and fuch bill is or thall be drawer,
or indorfer, Whether tke
4ceptance or non-payment, the
" fhall be fubje& to the payment of fifteen per centum competetwit.
of nef, for the
"c damages thereon, and the bill thall carry an intereft
..ain
pro- at in
" five per centum per annum, from the date of the
fully the latteri
be
flhall
for,
drawn
therein
" teft, until the money,
"r ratisfied and paid."

" "3. .It'fhall be lawful for any perfon or perfons,

"having a right to demand any fum of money upon a
c protefted bill of exchange, to commence and profe" cute an adion of debt, for principal, damages, intere./
i and charges of protef, againft the drawers or indorfers"
"jointly, or againft either of them feparately ; and judgment ihaRl and may be given for fuch principal, da-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSAO
'0'.

"mages and charges, and intereft apon fuch principal,
: after the rate aforefaid, to the time of fuch judgment,

Litox&
8AL. "and

for the intereft upon the faid principal money re-

covered, after the rate of five per centum per annum,
"until the fame fhall be fully fatisfied."
"

" §. 4. In all bills of exchange given for any debt due
- in current money of this commonwealth, or for curic rent money advanced and paid for fuch bills, the fum
" in current money that was paid or allowed for the fame,
"(flall be mentioned and expreffed in fuch bill, and in
" default thereof, in cafe fuch bill (hall be protefted, and
" a fuit brought for the recovery of the money due there" by, the fum of money expreffed in fuch bill, ihall be
"c held and taken as current money, and judgment (hall
cc be entered accordingly."
"§. 6. In any adion
vhich hath been, or fhall be
9 commenced, and is or (hall be depending for the reco"very of any fierling money, in any cotirt of record
"within this commonwealth, wherein the plaintiff or
cc plaintiffs (hall recover, fuch court (hall have power, and
- are hereby direCled, by rule to be entered at the foot
"Cof their judgment in fuch ation, to order fuch judg" merit to be levied or difcharged in current money, at
" fuch a'difference of exchange as they (hall think juft."

Th caufe, in the court below, was tried upon the
plea of nil debet, and the jury found a verdid for the
debt in the declarationmentioned, and one cent damages ; it
was tT6erefore confidered by the court, "that the faid
9! plaintiffs recover agairift the faid defendant their debt
,1 aforefaid, amounting to three hundredpoundsflerling, and

1 their damages aforefaid, by the jurors aforefaid, in
c, form aforefaid affeffed, and alfo their cofts, by them
" about their fuit in this behalf expended; and the faid
" defendant in mercy, &c. But this judgment (damages
" and colts excepted) is to be difcharged by the payment
"of eight hundred and fifty-five dollars, twenty-three
"9

cents."

The reoord which came up contains fix bills of exceptions.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
i.Firft. That the defendant Wilfon produced in evi- WILsoN
I.
dence to the jury the accounts of the plaintiffs Lenox and
AL.
LENX&
of
dra-vers
the
Ramfay,
W.
and
A.
againft
Maitland,
the bill, whereby the latter were charged as debtors to
Lenox and Maitland, on the 22d of Auguft, 1799, for
the amount of tile bill and damages in dollars and cents,
among many other debts and credits, upon which whole
accounts current, a balance of 1o95 dollars only ap.
peared to be due from A. and W. Rimfay to Lenox and
Maitland ; and thereupon prayed the opinion of the court
whether by making the faid bill an item of account asJqated
in the aforefaid accounts againft the faid A. and W. Ramfay,
the faid Wilfon was not thereby, as indorfer, difcharged
and the court were of opinion that he was not.
2. Second. That the defendant offered to prove that
the plaintiffs had received part of the money from the
drawers of the billflnce the defendant Wilfon had notice
of the proteft, but the court were of opinion that the
fame, if proved, would not difcharge Wilfon as indorfer.

3. Third. That the defendant offered to prove by the
bill and proteft, that after the proteft of the faid bill at
the requeft of Roberts, Curtis and co. the then holders of
the bill, it was paid by Dorin, -Strange and co. to Roberts, Curtis and co. for the honor of Lenox and Maitland, the plaintiffs, and thereupon prayed the opinion of
the court, whether, as the bill had been fo paid, this action would lie againft the defendant as indorfer, and the
court gave it as their opinion that it would lie.
4. Fourth. That the defendant prayed the bpinion of
the court, whether it was not incumbent on the plaintiffs
te prove the value of current money received here for the
bill upon which this aalion is brought, which bill is in
thefe words: "Exchange forL.300 fterling, Alexandria, 2d
"9January, 1799. Ninety days after fight of this our firft
" of exchange, kfecond, third and fourth of the fame te" nor and date unpaid) pay to the order of William Wil"c fon, efq. the fum of three hundred pounds flerling, for
cc value here received, and place it to account as advifed
"by Andrew and William Ramfay." ,"To Meffrv.. Find"ley, Bannatyne and co. London." And the court gave
it as their opinion, that it is not neceffary for the plaintiffs

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Wi LSoN
q,.

to proye the value given here in current money for the
faid bill.

L2Nox & AL.

s. Fifth, That the defendant offered to prove by the
account thereunto annexed, that the bill, upon which this
fuit was brought, was given in the commonwealth of Virginia, either for dollars and cents due in the faid commonwealth, from A. and W. Ramfay to the plaintiffs, or for
dollars and cents advanced by the plaintiffs, or fome
other perfons, for the faid. A. and W. Ramfay, in the
flute of New-York, and prayed the opinion of the court,
whether, if the faid faas were proved to the jury, the
faid bill ought not to be fettled according to its nominal
amount as current money of Virginia. Whereupon, the
court inftruhted the jury, that if they were of opinion
from the "evidence offered, that the bill of exchange war
given for a-y debt due from A. and W. Ramfay, in current money of the commonwealth of Virginia, or for
current money advanced and paid for the faid bill, and
the. fum in current money, that was paid or allowed for
the fame, is not expreffed in the bill, tte fiim expreffed
in. the bill f(hall be held and taken as current mou.ey of
Virginia; and if, from -the evidence offered, they (hould
not be of that opinion, that' the fum expreffed in the
bill fhall be taken and held, as fo expreffed, to wit, in
(terling money.
6. Sixth. That the defendant,offered to examine William Ramfal, one of the drawers of the bill, to which
the counfel for the plaintiffs objefed, and the court gave
it as their opinion, that t'he faid W. Ramfay was an incompetent witnefs in the caufe.
The fecond, third, fourth and fifth exceptions feem to
have been abandoned in the argument in this court.
Lee, and Swann for plaintiff inerror.
8.
C. Lee, B..
"Simms for defendants.
The errors infifted on by the counfel for the plaintiff in error were,
ift. The opinion of the court below, as fRated in the
firft -bill of exceptions.

FEBRUARY, i8o3.
2d. The rejeftion of W. Ramfay as a witnefs.
3d. That there was no proteft for non-accettance of
the bill.
4 th. That the declaration does not flate anydemand
of payment of the bill, made on the drawees.
5 th. The damages are not laid in the fame currency as
the debt.

. 6th..,The jury have awarded that the flerling debt
fhould be difcharged by the payment of 855 dollars and
23 cents.
7th. The debt demanded is not certain.
E..

f. Lee, for the plaintiff

in error.

ift. The court below erred in not inftrufing the jury
that the defendants in error, by charging-the bill in account .againft the drawers, in the manner ftated in the
.accounts, had difcharged the indorfer. The court ought
at leaft to have left it to the jury to decide whether the
circumftances did' not amount to a difcharge of. Wilfon.
By the account of Lenox and Maitland againft the drawers of the bill, it appears that after charging the amount
of the bill, and damages, intereft aud charges of proteft,
and turning the amount into dollars and cents at fuch rate
of exchange as the defendants in error pleafed, there was
only a'balance of about xooo dollars due to them from
the drawers; it is not reafonable that they thould recover
more than is due to them againft an innocent indorfer who
vauft look to infolvent drawers for, his indemnification.
The defendants have in fa.& given credit to the drave~s
for the amount due on the bill, and have agreed to liquidate it in account. If the holder of a bill. receives part
of the money from the acceptor without giving notice
to the drawer, the latter is difcharged. Butler R. p. 275.
So if he receives part from the drawer, he difcharges
the indorfer. Here no notice was given to Wilfon *.
CC) 7tuglu.-Does the bill 6f exceptions fiate that-ntice was not'
given to Wilfoa I If it does sot you can not argu; uapon the want-of no-

WILso1
'ri.
LENOX

&AL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
Iv.
LrNox & ALv

or if there was, it is waived by the condud of Lenox

and Maitland. Ini the cafes of Dingwallv. Duntier, Doug.
247 (23S.) it is true that judge Bull-r fays, that nothing
but an exprefs agreement can difcharge an acceptor, but
the court are careful to diftinguifh betweni the cafe of
an acceptor, and that of a drawer or indo-fer. The implication is, that there are many circumftanccs which will
difcharge the latter, without an exprefs agreement. The
court ought, at leaft, to have inftruded the jury that they
might infer a difcharge from the circumftances of this
cafe.*
2dly. W. Ramfay, the drawer of the bill, ought to
have been admitted as a witnefs. He had no intereft
which would render him incompetent. The verdid in
this cafe could not have been given in evidence either for
or againft the witnefs; and whether Lenox and Maitland
recovered againft Wilfon, or not, he was frill liable to an
a&ion as drawer-to Lenox and Maitland if they failed
againft Wilfon-or to Wilfon, if they fucceeded. In
the cafe of Smith qui tam v. Prager, 7 Term, rep. 62.
the rule is clearly laid down to be, that " no objeRion
" could be made to the competency of a witnefs upon the ground
49 of intereft, inlefs he were dire7y intere/led in the event of
c, the fuit, or could avail himfief of the verdia in the caufe,
,,fo as to give it in evidence on any future occafon infupport ef
" his own interefl." Fhe objeaion only goes to his credit, unlet, the judgment can be given in evidence for
him in any other fuit. The fame principle is confirmed
in the cafe of )ordaine v. La/brooke, 7 Term, rep. 6oi,
where, in a fuit between the indorfee and the acceptor of
a bill, the payee was called and allowed as a witnefs to defeat the adion, by proving that the bill, although dated
at Hamburgh, was in fat drawn in London. and fo void
for wax t of a ftamp. It may be obferved in tiat cafe, that
A. 7. Lee.-It does not. But the declaration uocs not allege notice
of the non-acceptance, nor of the non-payment ; but only of the protejl
for non-payment, and a material fad not averred can not be prefumed to

have been proved.
Chafe, Yuflice.
C

There is no doubt a drawer o.- indorfer may be dif-

charged in exprefs terms; or by fads amounting to a difeharge; but where
the difcharge is not exprefs but by implication arifing from f-61s, the
jury, and not the court, are to decide whether it is a difeharge; the
court ought not, to fay it was a difkharge.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
it was admitted that there could be no objeffion on the
ground of interei~, but the objedion relied on was, that the
witnefs ought not to be permitted, from motives of pollcy as it refpe&zd mercantile credit, to, impeach a negociable inifrument to which he had affilled in giving currency by his indorfement ; and even that objeaion was
over. ruled. In the cafe of Carter v. Pearce, i Term, rep.

163, the court faid that, " the bare poffibility of an ac" tion being brought againif a witnefs, is no objedion to
" his competency ;" and that ", in orderto fhew a witnefs
" interefted, it is neceffary to prove that he ifuf derive a
" certain benefit from the determination of the caufe one
" way or the other."''
3 dly. Here was no proteft for non-acceptance, nor does
the declaration. flate a demand of payment from the drawees, nor notice of the non-payment, or non-acceptance
given to Wilfon. The proteft for non-payment is not cvidence that the money was demanded at the time the bill

became payable.

4 Bac. ab. 735, Gwt'yllim's edition.

In the cafe of Ruhton v. Afpinall, Doug. 679. (653)

it is exprefsly decided that the plaintiff muft allege in
his declaration a demand, and refufal of the acceptot on
the day when the note was payable, and notice thereof to

the indorfer before he can be made liable -,'and that the
want of fuch averments in the declaration is not cured
by a verdi6t. And Lord Mansfield there lays down the
rule to be, " that where the plaintiff has ftated his title
" or ground of affion defeaively or inaccurately (becaufe,
" to entitle him to recover, all circumjlances necefFary in
" form and fubftance to complete the title fo imperfedly
Sftated, muff be proved at the trial) it is a fair prefump" tion, after a vereit, that they were proved; 'but that
" where the plaintiff totally omits to ftate his title or
" caufe of affion, it need not be proved at the trial, and
" therefore there is no room for prefumption."
The demand and refufal of the drawee to pay is the
very fubftance of the plaintiffs' title to recover i and thereChafe, yfsilce. Upon the ftatute of gaming, ufury and the like, but
in no other cafe, are the drawers; indorfers, &c. competent wjtneffes:
The cafes all Ihew it.

Wiso
LENOX

& AL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
'V

fore the not fetting it forth in the declaration is a .total
omiffion of his caufe of aftion.

LNOx& AL
Y

4 th. The damages are not laid in the fame currency
with the bills and the promife. To fupport this objection 'he relied on the decifion of the court of appeals of

Virginia, in the cafe of Scott's executors v. Call, t Waf.

Rep. rrS, and Skip with v. Baird, 2 WaJ2. 165.
C. Lee, on theiame fide.
ift. The queftion to the court below was whether the
plaintiffs by making the bills an item of the accounts, as
therein Jfated, had not difcharged the indorfer Wilfon.
The accounts of Lenox and Maitland againft the drawers
of the bill, begin in 1798 and end in i8oo. The bills are
entered in account, on the 22d of Auguft 1799, and
eharged with intereft and damages; and the amount carried out from iferling into dollars and cents, at'fuch rate
They
of exchange as the defendants in error pleafed.
have therefore changed the nature of the demand, and
given credit to the drawers for a certain fum in the currency of the United States. They have, as far as they
were able, manifefted their intention to give credit to A.
and W. Ramfay.
Thefe circumftances being fubfequent to the notice to
Wilfon are a difcharge in law, and are equivalent to an
exprefs difcharge. If I am right the court ought to
have inftruded the jury that thefe fads difcharged all
perfons but A. and W. Ramfay. Perhaps the court
might have left it to the jury to infer an intention to difcharge the indorfer; but the court ought not to have
inftruled the jury that Wilfon was not thereby difcharged as indorfer.
2d. The objeffion to the competency c-f W. Ramfay
as a witnefs was not good. If he had any intereft, it was
in favor of the plaintiffis. The obje&ion was made generally and goes to his proving any fad whatever. A witnefs may be competent to prove rome fads and not others.
He was competent to prove, not only that the bill was
charged in account, but that it wa§ given up, and came
furreptitioufly to the poffeflion of the plaintiffs, if the fad
iad been fo. I gate this only to fliew that he ought not

FEBRUARY, S8oq.

203

to have been wholly excluded. On a criminal profecu- WILSoN
-.
tion for forgery, the party, whofe name is forged, may be L
AL.
LEtox&
not
fhall
man
a
that
do&rine
The
i
io.
Dall.
i
a witnefs,
be permitted to difprove .a paper to which he has put his
name to give it credit, is bvei-ruled in th cafe of Jordane
and Lahbroohe cited from 7 Term. Rep. 6oi. In the cafe
of Wa/pole v. Pulteney, cited in Doug. 249 (237.) inthe note,

at the fecond trial of the caufe at Guildhall at the fittings
after Michaelmas term 1779, before Skyntier, chief Baron,

Alexander, the indorfer of the bill was fworn as a withefs
for the acceptor, and no objedion made to his competency. But in this cafe there is not any intereft whatever in the witnefs. For if the evidence of Ramfay
went to difcharge Wilfqrg, ftill it would not go to difcharge Ramfay itfelf. There is a cafe alfo in Efpinaffe's
reports, in which the acceptor was fworn as a witnefs in
a queftion between the indorfee and drawer,
Simms, contra.
ift. The charge of the bill in account againft the
drawers, does not amount to a legal difcharge of the
indoifer. It is neither an exprefs or an implied difcharge. The holder has a remedy againft all or any of
the indorfers or the drawer, until he gets full fatisfa&ion.
If he gives due notice to the party to whom he means to
refot, he is not bound to commence fuit inflanter. If he
receives part from the dra~ver, it is fo much to the benefit
of the indorfer, and he has no right to complain. Due
notice is all that the indorfer bas a right to require, and
if he does not then fecure himfelf, it is his own fault.
The cafe from Buller, N. P. 275, is not denied" to be 'law ;
but Buller there fays," if the indorfee give credit to the
, drawer, without notice to the indorfer, it will difcharge

c him." But here it is admitted that notice was given,
and the allegation is, that notwithftanding fuch notice,
the fubfequent charge in the accounts of Lenox and Maitland againft the drawers has difcharged the indorfer.
Lenox and Maitland might have brought fuit againft
the drawers, without prejudice, to their claim againft the
indOrfer ; afortiori, the charging a bill in account againft
the drawers cannot prejudice the claim againft the indorfer.
2d. W. Ramfay was offered as a witnefs generally,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

without a releafe from Wilfon. The court were right in
him both on the grounds of intereft and of public

',.
rejefing
LENoX& A.. policy.

If judgment fhould be rendered againft Wilfon, Ramfay as drawer would be clearly liable to refund Wilfon the
coffs of fuit ; and a relief from that liability was a clear
intereft.
A party to a negociable paper ought not to be permitted'
to difcredit it.
An underwriter can not be a witnefs for another underwriter in an aelion upon the fame policy.
The cafe in Doug. 247, does not affe& the prefent.
The note in 249, is of an ancient cafe; and there Walpole's own book was produced *ith a memorandum that
Pulteney was difcharged from his liability as acceptor.
All the cafes cited are where a party to the bill has
been admitted as a witnefs either ex neceffliate, or on
the ground of public conveniency and policy. The cafe
of 7ordane v, Lt/hbrooke, was one where the revenue
would have been defrauded of the itamp duty, if the
witnefs had been excluded; and to prevent that evil he
was admitted.
In the cafes of ufury the maker, of the note or'other
fecurity is not admitted unlefs the debt has been paid.
And in the cafe of forgery, it is a public criminal profecution in which the injured party is always admitted.
The fault of the declaration, if it does exift, is cured
by the verdi& under the ftatute of jeofails of Virginia,
which declares, that no judgment after verdi& fCall be
ftayetvor reverfed, for mwfpleading, inIu/icent pleading,
or .fromitting the averment of any matter, 'withoutprolving
ivhich, the jury ought not to have given fuch verdif. Rev.

Code, I18. But the averment was not neceffary. The
Aieclaration contains an allegation that the bill was protefted in due form, accbrding to the cuflom of merchants, for

non-payment ; and by the cuftom of merchants, the bill
could not have been protefted until demand and refufal
of paymentt,

FEBRUARY, i80g3.

05

But this adion is grounded on the ad of affembly, WILSON
V.
and not on the cuftom of merchants; and by the ad it
is only neceffary that it fhould be a protdhd bill of ex- LFox& AL.
change.
As to notice of the non-acceptance and non.payment
not being alleged in the declaration, the fadt is not fo.
The declaration alleges that the bill was prefented for
acceptance and refufed ; and afterwards, on the Ift of
June, protefted in due form according to the cuftoms of
merchants for non-payment ; of which, (that is, of all
the fads before recited) the defendant had notice, &c.
As to the, damages being laid in current money ; this
is always done when tobacco, or foreign money is fued
for. There are fome unintelligible cafes in the court of
appeals of Virginia ; but they have never decided the
prefent point. In one cafe the court faid that if the fuit
is for a fterling debt, its value muft not be laid in current
money, becaufe the law of Virginia authorizes an action
of debt for fterlihg money.
Simm.s, on a fubfequent day, ftated that a demand of
payment was not neceffary where the bill was not accepted, and cited Lilly's entries, 44 and 45. The declaration
ftates the non-acceptance, and the proteft for non-payment.*
He alfo mentioned a cafe in Peake's reforts, where a
party to a bill of exchange was refufed as a witnefs; but
did not produce the book.
Swann, in reply.
j, The plaintiffs below having affumed a rate of exchange, and charged the amount in account againft the
drawers, is conclufive evidence of their intention to extinguiih the fterling debt.
2. The jury have awarded that the flerling debt fhould
be difcharged by the payment of 8oo dollarsfi the bai Chafe, yu]lice -A proteft for non-aceeptance is abfolutely neceffary
a the cafe of a foreign bill.
+ The fad doe not fo appear in the record.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WLS0N

'v.

lance of the account therefore, and not the rate bf cxchange, muff have been the guide of the jury.

LZVOX&AAL.

3. The teftimony of Ramfay was not to deftroy the
paper, but to explain the nature of the confideration ; to
flew thai it was given for current money of Virginia,
fo as to bring it within the operation of the 4 th fe~tion
of the a&t of affembly refpefting bills of exchange given
for current money due in Virginia. This a& applies as
well.between indorfee and indorfer, as between payee and
drawer*; and if the bill was given for current money
due in Virginia, the" fum mentioned in the bill is to be
taken as current money, and not as fterling.
4. A proteft for non-acceptance, and a demand of
payment trom the drawee, at the time the bill became pay,
able, were requifite to enable the plaintiffs below to recover. Kyd on bills, 76, 87. It being an aftion on the ftatute makes no difference, becaufe the flatute gives the
affion only to fuch perfons as have "a right to demandany
"rnum ofmoney up. n a protjed bill of exchange." The holder,
-therefore, muff thew a right to demand the money, independent of the provifions of the ftatutei 'and to afcertain whether he has fuch a right, we muff refort to the
cuftom of merchants, and fee whether he has complied
with all the requifites of that cuftom.
5. This is an aftion of debt; and the demand is uncertain. The debt demanded is the principal,damages, inter/ and charges of protefd, without flating the amount of
the charges ofprotefl. The principal is certain, becaufe it

is ifated to be £.joo ; and the damages and intereft are
certain, becaufe the law has afcertained their relative proportion to the principal; but there is nothing in the declaration by which the amount of the charges of proteft
can be rendered certain.
6. The damages ought to have been laid in fterling and
not in dollars. The damages follow the nature of the
dtbt. The a&t of affembly has authorifed fterling debts
to be fued for and recovered as fuch. $terling money
is not to be confidered as foreign money, 2 Wq/h.' 165,
Skipwith, v. Baird. The court of appeals of Virginia in
•Clif 7,,'fice.-The law has been fo conftrue.d in Virginia.

FEBRUARY, i8o r.

207

that cafe decided that the damages muft be laid in flerling.*

WILSON

I.
LiNO X& A.L

The court are to fix the rate of exchange ; but here the
jury have awarded at what fum in current money, the fterling debt fhould be paid, and it is evident that the 8oo
dollars which the jury faid fhould difcharge the debt, is
not the exchange but the balance of account.t
Simms cited 3 Dall. 365, Brown v. Barry, to fhew that
a proteft for non-acceptance was not neceffary; and that
a proteft for non-payment being alleged in the declaration,
it was not neceffary to aver a demand of payment from
the drawee.
C. Lee. The a&k of jeofails in Virginia is conftrued to
be the fame as that of England, although the words are
fomewhat broader. 2. Wah. 203. Stevens v. White.t
Feb. 22d. At a fubfequent day, the court having fuggefted an error, not noticed by the counfel, or not much
relied on at the argument, as being apparently fatal, viz.
that the cofts of proteft which are uncertain are joined as
part of the debt declared for.
0Cits.yiulice. In that cafe the court fpake of the damages which conflitute part of the debt in an a&ion under the flatute upon a bill of exchange,
and not of thofe damages, which are demanded at the end of the declaration for the non payment of that debt. There is no fuch dccifion refpeceting the latter.

t Chafe, )'Vice. If you have no law of Virginia authorifing fuch a judgment, it is bad, becaufe at common law no condition or alternative c.n
be added to the judgment. It is not a good judgment at common law.
Chief Y,/ice. If it is bad, the'defendant cannot complain. It is for his
benefit.
Chafe, 7dsflice. That may be the opinion of the chief jufice; but I have
confidered the queftion in a greater cafe than this. I am Well fatisfied
(and it will be difficult to alter my opinion) that at common law no condition can be annexed to a judgment.
Simms. It is the pradlice of Virginia. The law of Virginia allows
difcounts to a&ions of debt, and the judgment is to be rendered for the
debt, to be difcharged by the fun really due.
CLief yjfice. The decifions have been fo, although the flatute of Virginia is broader than the Englifh featute. The general principle decided
by the court of appeals of Virginia is,that a verdi& will not cure the
want of an averment of amaterial fadt whichgocs to the gift of the aaion.

"

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

IV-&
tENOX

Simms, for defendants in error, was now permitted to
fupport the declaration

& AL.
1

ift. The declaration is fufficiently certain. An a&ion
of debt will lie for what may eafily be reduced to a certainty.

Nothing can be more eafily afcertained and rendered
certain than charges of proteft on a protefted bill of exchange. They always appear upon the proteft ; and the
indorfement on the proteft is always confidered as evidence of their amount. No other evidence is ever required.
Debt may be brought for a fum capable of being afcertained, though not afeertained at thetime of the aEqion
brought. Doug. 6. Walker v. Witter. It is not neceffary that the plaintiff in debt flould recover the exa& fum
demanded; fame cae.andpage. 2 V. BI. Rep. 1221, Aylett
v. Love. If fo, then a demand of the charges of proteft
on a protefted bill of exchange particularly defcribed in
the declaration, is good, becaufe the fum or amount of
thofe charges is capable of being afeertained by the proteft
without further evidence.
It is admitted that the amount of damages or intereft
need not be ftated in the declaration.
To afcertain the amount of intereft, reference muft be
had to the proteft, to find its date, from which time the
intereft begins to accrue ; a reference to the fame proteft
will afcertain the amount of charges.
.2d. But if the charges of proteft are not demanded
with fufficient certainty, yet the judgment ought not to
be. reverfed on that account ; becaufe the judgment is
not rendered for the charges of proteft, but is rendered
for C.300 fterling, the principal of the bill.

It is now

well fettled that in an action of debt, judgment may be
rendered for lefs than is demanded in the declaration.
Doug. 6. Walker v. Witter. I H. Black/lone, 249, .Tt'.jilli, V. Cox.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
in the prefent cafe the demand is for the principal funt
drawn for by the bill of exchange, with damages, interef,
and charges of proteft thereon. It appears by the reord
and by the evidencq produced by the plaintiffis in error,
which is made a part of the record, that a part only of
the original demand on the bill was due, the rcfidue
having been fettled and paid. Shall the judgment then
be reverfed for not fRating the amount of the charges of
proteft, which had been previoufly paid, and for which
the judgment was not rendered ?

WILSOM
'V.

LZEOX& Al..

N6 other a&ion can be brought by Lenox and Maitland againif Wilfon for the charges of proteff on the bill
of exchange, Riated in the declaration ; no judgment has
been rendered for them in the prefent anion. How
then has he been injured, or how can he be injured by

the omiffion to tate the amount of the charges in the
declaration ?
In the de claration four diftin& things are demanded,
viz. 1, the principal ;2 , the damages on the proteft ; 3, the
*intereft; .4, the charges of proteft.
I take it to be fettled law, that if a 8eclaration be
good in part, thc'.igh bad as to another part, the plaintiff
is entitled to judgment for fo much as is well alleged,
efpecially if it be not of an entire demand.
An acqion of debt might be brought for the principal
fum due on a bill of exchange, without including the damages, intereft and charges of proteft. If then an a&ion
of debt be brought for the principal, damages, intereR
and charges of proteft, and the damages, intereft and
charges of proteft, or either of them, fhould not be demanded with fufficient certainty, it would not be error to
render judgment for that which was fufficiently alleged.
In this cafe the principal furn is d Fmanded with fuffici.
ent certainty, and for the principal rum only is the j udg.
ment rendered. Cro. Jac. 104. JVoo?),'s car'. 4 .Bat. ab.
25,

26.

SUPREME COURT U, S.
WILSON
'I.
L"NoX &

A man fhall not reverfe a judgment for error$ if he
cannot fhew that the error is to his difadvantage. 5 Co.
39. (b.) Tey's cafe. It appears by the record that judg-

ment w'as not rendered for the charges of proteft, therefore the plaintiff in error has fuftained no damage or injury by reafon of not alleging in the declaration the
amount of the charges of protett.
3 d. If the omiffion of the amount of the charges of'
protef could in any fAage of the proceedings be confidered as an error, it is cured by the verdi&. By the ae-t of
affembly of Virginia, (rev. code, p. I 8.) it is declared
that after a verdit of twelve men, no judgment fhall be

flayed or'reverfed, for any mifpleading or inf fficient plead-

ing. The omiffion, if it is an error, muft be one or the
other. In jacob'.t Law Dit. it is faid to be mifpleading
if any thing be omitted that is effential to the aaion or
defence.
The title to recover in the a6tion is the protei'ed bill
of exchange ; that is fet forth in the declaration. The
title, therefore, is not wholly defeffive -in itfelf, though
it may be fet forth defeftively in not flating the amount
of the charges of proteft: fo that it comes within the rule
in the cafe of R.1hton v. Afpinall, and I Call, 98, Vaf v.
Chicbe/ter.
The court is not bound to enquire into errors, it the
party does not thew them.

2 Bac. ab. 217.

E. J..Lee, in reply.
The cafe of Walker v. WVitter in Doug. 6, does no@

fay that the fum demanded may be uncertain, but only
that you may recover a left fum than that demanded.
Thddemand rnuft be certainly expreffed, if it be poffible,
at the time of bringing the aftion.
In the cafes of Scott's exr. v. Call, i Wab. iiS, and
Skipwith v. Baird, 2 Wa/h. 16 5 , the amount of the charges

of proteft are'particularly mentioned ; in one they werer
4f(;, in the other 7j8.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
Feb. 26. The Chief Julice delivered the opinion of
the court.

WILSoF
IV.
LYNox

In this cafe there, was an obje&ion taken to the plain'tiffs' declaration, which was in debt on a proteftedbill of
exchangej The declaration claims £ 300 ftei-ling, with
damages, intereft and charges of proted, on a protefted
bill of exchange, without ftating, in' any part of it, the
amount of thofe charges. The verdi& is for the debt'in
the declaration mentioned, on which judgment is rendered, to be difcharged by a lefs fum.
The obje&ion is, that the demand is 'uncertain, in. as
much as the amount of the charges of proteft, which
conftitute a part of the debt claimed, is not ftated.
The claufe of the a& on which this fuit is inftituted
is in thefe words, " It fhall I. lawful for any perfon or
".perfons," &c "to profecute an aCtion of debt, for prin" cipal, damag s, intered, and charges of proteJ againft the
" drawers," &c. The charges of proteft conftitute an
effential part of the debt, and the declaration would not
_purfue the adt, if thofe charges thould be omitted. rhis
part therefore cannot be confidered as furpluffage. It is
a component part of the debt for which the affion is
given. Being a neceffary part, its amount ought to he
flated with as much certainty as the amount of the bill.
As this is a mere technical objedion, the court would
difregard it, if it was not a principle, deemed effential
in the af-ion of debt, that the declaration fhould flate
the demand with certainty.
The cafes cited,by the counfel for the defendant in error, do not come up to this cafe. They relate to different
debts; this to a ingle debt compofed of different parts.
Judgment reverfed and arrefted.
See the cafe of Rudder v,. Price, i H. B!. reports, 550,

&

AL,

