SUPREME COURT U. S.
HAMILTON "9law; that is the point which we have confidered, and

10.
RUssELL.

" we are all of opinion, that if there is nothing but the
" abfolute conveyance, without the poiTeffion, that in point
,"-of law is fraudulent."
This court is of the fame opinion. We think that the
intent of the ftatute is beft promoted 6y that conftru~tion;
and that fraudulent conveyances, which are made to fecure to a debtor a beneficial intereft while his property
is proteded from creditors, will be moft effectually prevented by declaring that, an abfolute bill of fale is itfelf
a fraud, unlefs poffcffion "tccompanies andfollows the deed."

This conftruion too comports with the words of the a&.
Such a deed muft be confidered as made with an intent
"

to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors,"

On the fecond bill of exceptions the court did right in
refufing to give the inftru&ion required. The queftion
propounded feems to have been an abftra& queftion not

belonging to the caufe.
Judgment afirmed with cofls.

UNITED STATES
V0.

1.

STATES

R. T. HOOE AND OTHERS.

R. T. Hoot
& AL.

'nder the

THIS was

judiciary a&1 of cuit court of
1789, in chancery cafes, a of Chaticery.
(atement of

a writ of error to a decree of the cir-

the diftrit of Columbia, fitting as a ouart

The cafe was,that colonel Fitzgerald in the year x794was
tranfeript. This appointed colletor of the cufloms for the port of Alex
rad mut
company

ac-

the

provifion was
revived by the
repeal
of the a&
of February

uar.

andria, and gave bond to the United States in the penalty
of i O,OOO dollars, with R. T. Hooe as his furety, for the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. In con-

fequence of mifapplication of large fums of money by the

chief clerk, who was enttufted with almoft the whole

FEBRUARY, i8o 3 .

$19

management of the bufinefs, col. Fitzgerald became defici- U.

STATut

IV.
ent in his accounts -with the United States to the amofint
of 57,00o dollars. After this fact was difcovered he execu- R. T. Hous
& AL.
ted a deed of truft of part of his real eftate to truftees, to he
fold to indemnify Hooe from the demands of the Unittda
States againft him, as fecurity of Fitzgerald, and alfo to fecure him againft fundry notes which he had indorfed for
bim at the bank of. Alexandria, as well as to enable him to
take up further fums at the bank, as his exigencies might
require. After the death of col. Fitzgerald, the trultees
advertifed the property for fale, and the United States
obtained Lix injunction to flay the fale, alleging that by
the ats of congrefs, they were entitled to a prior lien
upon the eftate of their debtor ; and that the deed, as to
them, was fraudulent. In the court belqwthe claim of
the United States was refted altogether upon the prior
lien crqated by the ac of congrefs; and the court being
of opinion that the act did not create a lien on the real
eftate, and that there did not appear to be any fraud in
the tranfadion, diffolved the injun~tion, with colts, and
ordered i o,ooo dollars, part of the proceeds of the fale,
to be paid into the treafury of the United States in fatiffaftion of the bond, ,in which Hooe was the fvrety, and
the refidue, after' paying the notes due at bank, to be
paid into the treafury of the United States, in part fatiffaCtion of the balance due from the eftte of Fitzgerald.
It having been proved to the fatisfaffion of the court,
that the money, arifing from the notes difcounted at the
bank, had been before paid by Fitzgerald to the United
States.
To reverfe this, decree, the prefent writ of error was
fued out by the attorney for the United States.
The decree of the court below did not ifate the faius
upon which the decree was founded ; and although the
tecord contained the bill, anfwers, exhibits and all the evidence which was before the court below, yet no liatement of faCs, according to the provifion of the judiciary
a& of 1789, ch. 20. ยง. 19, was made by the parties or by
tite court.
Tbe attorney gentrl * opened the caufe on thq part of
Mr. Limola.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the United States, and was going on to lhew that the
deed was fraudulent, as to creditors, upon general princiIv.
R. T. Hoo ples of law, (a ground not taken in the court below, when
& AL.
he was ftopped by an enquiry from the court, whether
there was any provilion in the ad concerning the diftri&
Y
of Columbia, by which the cafe was taken out of the operation of the nineteenth fedion of the judiciary ad of
1789, which required a flatement of the fads to accompany the reord. Upon recurring to the ad of congrefs,
21th February 8o i, concerning the diftrid of Columbia, ch. 86. ยง.8, it was found that writs of error were to
" be profecuted in the fame manner, under the fame regu" lations, and the fame proceedings fhall be had therein,
as is, orfha/l be provided in the, cafe of writs of error on
judgments,l or appeals upon orders or decrees rendered
V. STATES

"

in the circuit court of the United States."

Upon

which the court faid, that the decifions on the aa of x789,
ยง.19, had been, that unlefs a flatement of fads appeared
upon the record, they could not fay there was error. 3.
Dallas, 337, Jennii'gs v. Brig Pefeverance. It is true
that the ad of February 13. i8o. chap. 75. ยง.33,.reme-

died the evil, but that ad was repealed in 18o2, fo that
the law now ifands as it did before the ad of i8o :.And
the ad'concerning the difiri& of Columbia, by faying that
writs of error ihall be profecuted in the fame manner as is,
erfall be, provided, &c. places this cafe under the law of
1789. Whatever might be the prefent opinion of the
court if this were the firft time of being called upon to
give a conftrudion to that claufe of the ad, yet the queftion, has been folemnly fettled. One legiflature has taken
cognizance of the conifruion given by the court, and
has provided for the cafe, but another legiflature has repealed that provifion and thereby given a fubfequent legiflative conftrudion, or at leaft hewn fuch a legiflative
acquiefcence under the conftrudion which this couit forinerly gave to the ad, as is'now conclufive.
At the requeft of the attorney general, the writ of error
was difiniffed. t
at this time, an a& was introduced and paff Congrefs being in feafion
fed, containing a claufe fimilar to the 33d fcion of the ad of x3th Febinary, x8oi, refpc&ing writs of error and appeals in cafes of equity and

vol. 6. p, 315, s. 13 3d March,
maritine jurifdiion, &c. Lasts of U. a'.

