F EBRUARY, 1803.
On a confideration, then, of the whole contra& be- Hoot & Co.
IV.
tween the parties, the court is of opinion that Groverman
remained the owner of the veffel during the voyage, and GRovlR.
MAN.
is anfwerable for any mifcondua of the captain.
The covenant to lay off and on at the port of Falmouth,
being the covenant of Groverman, the freighters are not
qnfwerable in this a&ion, for the breach of it, fhould
the orders of Fox be underftood as their orders. It is
probable that the courfe taken by the captain was the
moft prudent courfe ; but were it otherwife, the orders of
Fox might excufe the owner from any aaion brought'by
the freighters for lofs fuftained by them in cbnfequence
of going into Falmouth, but could not entitle him in this
a&ion againft the freighters.
It is then the opinion of this court, that on this fpecial
verdi&, the law is for the defendants.
Judgment reverfed, and the circuit court to enter judgment for the defendants.
GABRIEL WOOD,

ORIGINAL DEFENDANT,
V).

WILLIAM OWINGS AND JOB SMITH,.
ASSIGNEES

WILLIAM ROBB, A

BANKRUPT,

OF
ORIGINAL PLAINTFPr,

ERROR from the fourth circuit court fitting
at Baltimore.

Woot
IV.
OWINGS.

This was an aaion on the cafe, for money had and received by Wood to the ufe of Robb, the bankrupt.
Judgment below was entered by confent, fubje& to the
opinion of the court on a caf¢ fating the foblowing'faft,
vtiz.

'-v--

1

A deed of lands
in Maryland,
figned, fealed,
and delivered
on th: 3 oth of
May, and ,-

SUPREME COtIRT
WooD
ev.

OwINCs.
I'j
knowledged on
ihe
14th
June,
istoof
be

. S.

On the 3 oth of May, t80o, Robb being in poffefTi~o
of his houfehold furniture, and having two veffels and' no
other property, on the high feas, figned, fealed, and delivered, a deed to Charles Garts and Gabriel Wood,

truftees in behalf of themfelves and other creditors of
Robb, therein particularly named, and fuch others of

confidered as his creditors as fhouid by a certain time affent to the terms
wade
on the
of the truft
; by which deed, Robb, in confideration of
..
3oth of M ay ; '
andits acknowe fhillings,
and towards 'payment of the debts due tar
ledgment on
the 14 th of

June will not

the particular creditors therein named in the firft place,
and in the next place of fuch of his creditors as fhould

agree to the terms of the truf- grants, bargains, fells, &C.

caufe it to be
fuch a deed as to Garts and Wood, all his eflate, real, perfonal, and mixed,
is contemplated and chofes in aiion, &c. in trult to fell the fame and col-'

in the bankrupt lea the debts, &c. and on receipt of the money, to re,
ai which came tain in the firft
place the amount due to Garts and Wood,
into operation
on the Ad of.
June.

for money lent, &c. then to pay the debts due to the
other creditors particularly named, and then to pay the
debts due to fuch of his other creditors as fhould, within
a certain. time, agree to the terms of the truft; and if
there fhould be a furplus to pay it over to Robb. That
this'deed was acknowledged on the i 4 th June, i8oo.That Robb did not on the faid 3 oth of May, iBoo, deliver to Wood, his books, but.they remained in Robb's
poffeffion. That the veffels were not conveyed to Wood
b any other conveyance than that before mentioned.
That Robb continued in poffeflion of his houfehold fur.
niture, books of accounts, and all his papers, until the fuing out of the commiffion of bankruptcy, except the policies of infurance on the veffels, which were delivered
to Wood at the time of delivering the deed. That Robb
confidered Wood' As havinga right to take poffefiron of
the books and papers, and perfonal eflate, at any time
after the delivery of the deed, but did not then expea
to be obliged to flop bufinefs ; on the contrary, that he
atually went on with the hope of retrieving his affairs
until the 2oth June, i8ot. That Robb was a trader before and after the ift of June, 8oo ; that 'at the time of
figning, fealing, and delivering of the faid deed, he was
the legal, proprietor of a lot of ground in the ftati of
Maryland, as aflignee of a term of 99 years,. renewable
forever, and was alfo poffeffed of perfonal properti, and
had debts due to him; that Garts and Wood, and the
other perfons in the deed particularly named, were credi-

FEBRUARY, 18c3.
tors of Robb ; and that there were other creditors beides WooD
I.
thofe particularly preferred in the (Iced. That a cormmiflion of bankruptcy iffued againft Robh on the 12th Owl-Ns.
July, i 8oo, founded on, the ,xecution and acknowledgment of
the faid deed, under vhich Robb was declared a bankrupt,
and his effeds were affigned to the plaintiffs, Owings and
Smith, by a deed of affignment on the ift of May, i8ox.
And that the acion is brought to recover all monies received by Wood, in virtue of the faid deed to Garts and
Wood. If on the above flate of fats the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover, then judgment was to be entered for
the plaintiffs for 3000 dollars; but if, &c. then judgment
of non pros.

By the bankrupt aa of the United States, §. i, it is
ena6ted, that "from and after the yft day of 7une next,"
(i June, :8oo,) " if any merchant, ' &c. " with intent
ucnlawfully to delay or defraud his cr, ditors, flall make
4 or caufe to be made, any fraudulent conveyance of his
" lands or chattels," 4 he thall be deemed and adjudged
c a bankrupt."
Two queftions were made by the counfel in the court
below, viz.
ift. Whether this deed can be confidered as made at
the time of its acknowledgment on 14 th June, i8oo, fo
as to conflitute it an a& of bankruptcy, under the bankrupt law of the United States, which came into operation on the 2d June, i8oo, or whether the acknowledgment fhall relate back to the 3 oth May, x8oo,. the day
on which the deed was figned, fealed, and delivered, fo
that the I ced fhall be confidered as made on that day.
2d. Whether, if made after the ift of jitne, i8oo,
it can be confidered as fuch a fraudulent conveyance as
is contemplated by the uft §. of the bankrupt law.
Mfartin, for plaintiff in error,
Now waved the fecond point and relied entirely, on the
firfR.

This involves three queftions;
112

SUPREME COURT U., S.
Woo
,V.
OwI NG3.

v

ift. Whether the deed, figned, fealed and delivered,
on the 3oth of May, and acknowledged on the 14 th of
June, is an a& of bankruptcy under the law which came
into operation on the 2d of June.
2d. Whether the figning, fealing and delivery fhall be
confidered as going forward to the time of acknowledgment; or,
3 d. Whether the acknowledgment fhall refer back to
the time of the figning, fealing, and delivery.

The debtor, independent of the bankrupt adft, may
prefer one creditor to another. No creditor can prevent
him, unlefs by taking out a commiffion of bankruptcy.
This principle is acknowledged by all the Qtate governmentS, and by the laws of England, in cafes not within
the bankrupt law.
In the cafe of Hooper v Smith, i B!. Rep. 441, one
Hooper being bona fide indebted to his mother, in the
8oo, at 8 o'clock in the morning affigned and
fum of C..
delivered to his mother, half his ftock in trade, which
was taken away immediately to his mother's lodgings.
On the evening of the fame day he committed an a& of
bankruptcy. His affignees, by ftratagem, got pofleffion
of the goods and fold them. The mother brought trover againft the affignees, and recovered. Lord Mansfield,
in that cafe, faid, that " a-preference to one creditor,
- efpecially by affigning only part of his goods, and to
" pay only part of the debt, has been frequently held to
"be good; particularly in the cafe of Cock V.Gocdfel" low, (the cafe of a parent and child,) Small v. Owdly
, and others." ," Suppofe he had fold the goods in
,queftion to John or Thomas, and, with that ready
"cmoney, had paid his mother part of her debt; would
" that fale or pityment have been void ?"
The courts of Virginia, Maryland, and Pennfylvania,
have always recognized the fame principles. If the bankrupt law had never paffed, this deed would have been
proteded in courts of law and equity.
Is this a fraudulent conveyance under the bankrupt law?

FEBRUARY, 1803.

243

The acknowledgment is neceffary for fome purpofes,
but not to conifitute it a deed.

WooD
IV.
OWINGS.

A deed is defined to be a writing on parchment, or
paper, fealed, and delivered. Suppofe a mortgage of
lands, containing a covenant to pay money, be not acknowledged ; it would not at law convey a legal title to
the land, but it would be good as a covenant to pay the
money ; and'would be good to pafs an equitable title to
the land. Suppofe it contained a conveyance of land
and chattels ; it would be good as to the chattels.
This fhews that acknowledgment- is not a neceffary
part of the deed; but only that a deed, not acknowlkdged,
will not pafs a legal eftate in lands, as to credi.tors.
But the a& of Maryland, Noveinberfeion 1766. e.14.
§.2, fays " that no eftate of inheritance &c. fhall pafs
"or take effed, except the deed or conveyance by which
" the fame ihall be intended to pafs or take effed, fhall
"be acknowledged before the provincial court &c. and
" be alfo enrolled in the records of the fame county,"
&c. It muft therefore be a deed before the acknowledgment And by the fifth fedion of the fame ad it is declared that every fuch deed fhall have relation, as to the
pafllng and conveying the premifes, frbm the day of the
date thereof ; thereby evidently contemplating it to be a
deed from its date. This fe6dion was inferted becaufe,
by the former aa of 1715, the deed took effed only from
the time of its *acknowledgment. But the law is the
fame independent of the pofitive declaration of this a&.
i. Bac. 4b. 277. Bargain andfale. and 2. In). 674. 675,
where Lord Coke, in his expofition -upon the ftatute of
27. H. 8. c.,6, of enrollments, fays "tAnd when the
0 deed is enrolled within fix months, then it paffeth
' from the livery of the deed. And albeit, after the de"4livery and acknowledgmnent, either the bargainor, 6r bar46 gaifnee die before enrollment, yet the land paffeth by
"c this ad," " And by the words of this flatute, when
"1 the deed is enrolled, it paffeth ab initio."' And he'cites
the cafe of Mallery v. 7enningi, determined in the common pleas, 42. Eliz. which was this; Is one Sewfter was
" feized.of certain lands in fee, and acknowledged a re-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WooD
'V.
OWING'.

" cognizance to Turner, whofe executrix brought afcire
"facias, upon the recognizance, bearing date the 9 th.
November, 4t. Eliz. againftSewfter, and alleged him
" to be feized of thofe lands in dominicofuo ut defeodo, the
"day
of the fiirefaias brought ; and the truth of the
c'cafe being difclofed by long pleading, was this ; Sewfler,
4 7th November, before tl.c
recognizance acknowledged,
,,by deed indented, for money, had bargained and told
cc the faid land to another, and the deed was enrolled
, the 2oth November following. The queftion was,
4c whether Sewfter was, upon the whole matter, feized in
" fee the 9 th of November, the deed being not enrolled
" until the. 2oth of the fame November. And it was
" adjudged, una'voce, that Sewfter was not feized in fee
le of the land on the 9 th day of November. For that
, when the deed was enrolled, the bargainee was, in
'judgment of law, feized of that land, from the delivery
, of the deed. And it was refolved, that neither the
" death of the bargainor, nor of the bargainee, before
" enrollment, fhall hinder the paffing of the eftate. And
4c that a releafe of a Qtranger to the bargainee, before encc rollment, is good. So that it holds not by relation, be9,tween the parties, by fiction f law; but in point of
, eftate, as well to them, as to.flrangers alfo. And that
cc a recovery fuffered againft the bargainee, before enroll- ment, (the deed indented being, afterwards, within the
"c fix months, enrolled) is good, for that the bargainee was
44 tenant of the freehold, ii; judgment of lawi at the
cctime' of the recovery. And non tefert when the decd
4c indented is acknowledged, fo it be enrolled within the
'.fix months.. And all this was afterwards affirmed for
*: good. law'by the court of common pleas, Trin. 3. ac.
upon a fpecial verdid given in an Ejeione fi, mE be" tween &4elinghamand lbp ; and further it was there
refolved, th.t if the bargainee of la'nd, after the barcc gain and fale, and- before the enrollment, doth bargain
" and fell the fame, by deed indented and enrolled, .to
r another ; and after the fij'R deed is enrolled, within
4 the fii months, the bargain and fale, by the bargainee,
.h is good."
In 8 Viner 289 Tit. Relation, it is faid, " When two
-cc times, or two ai1s are requifite to the perfetion of'an

FEBRUARY, 1803.
"

ad it fhall be faid, upon their confummation, to receive

"

its perfedion from thefift."

If A. makes a deed to B. oih the 3 oth of May; and
another for the fame land to C. on the ift June, and acknowledges it the fame day ; afterwards, on the s4th of
June, he acknowledges the deed to B. this over-reaches
the deed to C. and the acknowledgment of;the deed to
B. is not a fraudulent aC.
buppofe A. makes a bonifide deed to B. for valualble
confideration, on the 3 oth of May. On the firft of June
A. commits an a& of treafon. ()ithe 14 th of June
he acknowledges the deed to B. The land is not forfeited by the treafon of A.
If an indidment had been found for forging this deed,
and to fupport the indirlment, evidence had been given
of the forge.ry of the acknowledgment only, would that
have fupported the indidment ?
If a declaration upon this deed, flating it to have been
made on the 14 th of June, had been drawn, would it
have been fupported by producing in evidence, this deed
figned, fealed and delivered on the 3 oth of May ?
This deed intends to convey chores in a'c~ion, and perfonal efec7s, as w;ll as lands. As to the former the
deed is good without acknowledgment; for as to the
chofes in-ation, the'deed without acknowledgment is
an equitable affignment, and if acknowledged it would
have amounted to nothing more.
But if the affignees are entitled, they muft take the
bankrupt's eftate, fubjed to all the equity of others.
2 Vea.zy,fenr. 58S, 633. Cooke's bankrupt lw, 203. Tayler v. Wbeeler, 2 Vern. 564.
Courts of law will proted equitable rights ; as in the
cafe of Winch and Keeley, i T'erm rep. 619, where the
plaintiff having affigned his right of adion to Searle, and
having become bankrupt, was ftill held able to fupport
the adion for the benefit of Searle, notwithftanding the
affignment of his effecs under the bankrupt laws.

W -oD
.

Ow

1-Og.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
And bythe'authority of exparte Byas, x a4tk. 124, if
the affignees had-received the money due to Robb, the
OWINOS. bankrupt, they would have. been obliged to pay it over to
SW-ood, the plaintiff in error, infLead of receiving it from
him.
WooD
IV.

The deed is not fraudulent infe; and would not now
be queftioned if the bankrupt law had not been paffcd.
Although it is a deed of all his effectfs, yet it is not an
abfolute deed, nor was it made on any fecret truft, or for
his own benefit. The only thing which can be alleged
againft it is,that it gives a priority to fome of his creditors, and this he had a clear right to do, both in law and
equity. It was not made in fecret ; it holds up no falfe
colours, it enables him to receive no falfe credit. He
might have fold the property for ready money, and paid
any one'of his creditors in full. But making a 'deed of
truft, he has prevented a facrifice of his property, whereby
it is competent to faiisfy a greater number of his creditors, and he is himfelf rendered more able to pay the
refidue of his debts by his future induftry.
The committing an a& of bankruptcy is, in law, confidered as criminal. The bankrupt law is, therefore, in
this refpe&, to be conftrued ifridly. It ought not to be
extended beyond the letter of the law. Cooke B. L. 67.
Cowp. 409, 427, 428. 5 Term rep. 575. '7Term rep.
5o. Fowler v.Padget.
But however fraudulent the deed
it was no a&l of bankruptcy, under
becaufe not executed after the ift
acknowledgment can be confidered
deed. And if it was not an a& of
of the defendants in error fails.

might have been, yet
the a& of congrefs;
of June ; unlefs the
as the making of the
bankruptcy, the title

Harper, contra.
The a&l of bankruptcy charged, is the making a fraudulent deed after the i ft June, i8oo, The counfel for
the plaintiff in error having abandoned the fecond point
Nwhich was made, and ftrongly contended for, in the
court below, the only qucftion now to be confidered is,
whether the deed was made before or after the zft of
.Tune.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

247

A deed, at common law, is an inftrument in writing
figned, fealed and delivered. If it be figned and fealed,
but not delivered, it is no deed ; and the reafon is, that
until the laft a& of volition is performed, there is fill
a power of recalling it.
The cafes from the Englifh books refpeating the flatute
of enrollments, are not applicable to the law of Maryland refpeaing acknowledgment. The Englifh laws only
prote& creditors and purchafers without notice. But the
law of Maryland is intended to prote& the maker of the
deed himfelf, to prevent forgeries and fraud, and to give a
further folemnity, that th. grantor may have more time
to refle&, and to fecure himfelf from being fuddenly entrapped. The law therefore fuperadds to figning, fealing
and delivery, a further a of volition.
It is faid that a court of equity will fet up fuch a deed;
true, it would, in certain cafes ; but not becaufe it is a
paper figned and fealed ; but becaufe it is a contra& for
a valuablv confideration. But this deed would never have
been fupported in a court of equity, if it had not been
completely valid at law. Suppofe Robb had refufed to acknowledge it ; and application had been made to chancery to carry the deed into effe6t ; it would have been refufed.
Can a deed be faid to be made when it is not complete ?
It was not complete on the 3 oth of May ; fomething was
ftill to be done, of which it would have been n'eceffary to
apply to a court of chancery to compel the performance.
If acknowledgment is neceffary by ftatute law, it is the,
fame as if neceffary by common law. The one is as binding as the other. They are both derived from the fame
fource, but evidenced in different modes. Signing, fealing
and deliver) only are necefliry by the commorA law, but
-acknowledgment alfo is neceffary by the ftatute.
The deed of land was an a&q of bankruptcy, and prevented the operation of. the deed as a deed of perfonal
eftate. Fhe deed for the land and for the chattel6 was
executed eod~m itylantj.

Wool
cv.
OwINGS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WOOD

,V.

Chafe, Juqice. The effed of an acknowledgment is
to prevent the grantor from pleading non eafljh7um.

OWIN GS

v

Harper. By the law of England acknowledgment is
not neceffary But by the law of Maryland it is a neceffary
part of the conveyance, and can no more be difpenfed
H wing
With, than the figniag, fealing and oelivery.
figned and fealed, the grantor may refufe to deliver ; fo,
having figned, fealed and delivered, he m-y refufe to acThe deed,
knowledge, and in either cafe it is no deed.
the 14 th of June.
therefore, was not made tiil
Martin, in reply.
Acknowledgment is abfolutely neceffary in England,
Viner, -2it. Enrollment, p. 443 " no
before enrollment.
cc deed, &c. can be enrolled, unlefs duly and lawfuily
9,acknowledged, cites Co. Lit. 225 (b.)" [he acknowledgment is the warrant for the enrollment. An acknowledgment in Maryland has no greater effed than in England.
There was an enrollment at common law, for fafe cuftody, it makes an eftoppel, and the party cannot plead
non effadum. Per Holt ch. j. Comb. 248, Smart v. IViliams, cited in Kiner, tit. enrollnent,p. 444. And in p. 445,
it is faid, " Enrollment of a deed is to no other purpofe,
" but that the party flhall not deny it afterwards," and
And in Sav. .9i. Holland v.
cites Br. Faits enrol.P1. 4.
D.;wnes cited in Viner tit.
enrollment p. 446, 447, it is
faid icthe ealing and delivery is the force of fuch deeds,
4( as deeds of bargain and fale,'&c. and not the enroll-

c ment." And again, in the fame cafe, "Bonds, indentures
" and deeds take their force by the delivery ; fo there is a
"perfe& a& before the conufance is taken, and before
The enrollment could not be made
- any enrollment."
upQn proof by witneffes. The acknowledgment was the
only authority.
Harper.

The enrollment is the a& of the grantee. The acknowledgment is the laft ad of volition of the grantor. It is
wholly voluntary ; he may refufe ; and if he does, the
deed has no effed. In Lngland,.the acknowledgment is

FEBRUARY,

1 90 3 .

949

aTegulation of the courts, not a provifion of the ftatute of
That ftatute is different from the a& of
enrollments.
Maryland; the latter exprefsly requires the acknowledg-

ment, and no eftate paffes at law without it. it therefore
becomes as much a requifite of a deed, as fealing or delivery. It is not only an abfolute requifite that the deed
fhould be acknowledged, but the courts of Maryland have
been very ftrift in requiring it to be done precifely in
the mode prefcribed. In the cafe of Hall and Gittings, desided in the ccurt of appeals in Maryland, the cafe was,
that the grantor refided in Anne Arundelcounty, but the
deed deferibed him as a refident of Baltimore county,
where the lands were fituated. The acknowledgment was
made in PrinceGeorge's county. This acknowledgment was
decided by the court of appeals not to be good, and the
caufe was loft, upon that ground, although the deed was
twenty-five years old, and poffeffion had been quietly enjoyed under it. The error was difcovered by the court
themfelves, and had not been fuggefted by the counfel at
the trial.
It has alfo been decided that the acknowledgment of a
feme covert muft be precifely in the form prefcribed by
the a6.
This fhews the great importance of acknowledgments
in Maryland.
Martin, in reply,

The acknowledgment in England is not a regulation of
the courts only, but is a principle of the common law
relative to enrollment, which exifled before the ftatute of
enrollments. It was known, at the time of enaaing that
ftatute, that by the common law, an acknowledgment was
a pre-requifite to enrollment. It was not neceffary therefore that it fhould be exprefsly prefcribed.by ftatute. Acknowledgment and enrollment was a proceeding well
known and underftood, and was not originated by the flatute of 27 H. 8 The fiatute only applies the procefs to
new cafes, or makes it neceffary where before it was only
voluntary.
As to the cafe of afeme covert, fhe could not, by tho

Wooau
'.

OwIS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WooD
eV.

OWINGI.

Y

common law, convey her land, except by fine and, recovery. But the law of Maryland authorizen her to da,

it in a certain mode.

That mode muft therefore be ftrid-

ly purfued.
March yf.
of the court:

The chief juflice delivered the opinios

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the circuit
cofirt of. the fourth circuit fitting at Baltimore, in the following cafe.
On the 3 oth of May, x 8oo, William Robb, who was
then a merchant. carrying on trade and merchandize, in
the ftate of Maryland, figned, fealed and delivered io Gabriel Wood, an infirument of writing, purporting to convey to the faid Gabrieli his real and perfonal eflate in truft,
to fecure him from certain notes and acceptances made
by him, on account of the faid Robb,. and afterwards, in
truft for other creditors in the deed mentioned. This deed
was acknowledged on. the 14 th of June ; and was then
enrolled accorLing to the laws of Marylant.
On the i 2th of July, x8oo, a commiflion of bankruptcy was fued out, founded on the execution of the deed above

mentioned, and the faid William Robb, beiug declared a
bankrupt, his eflfeas were affigned to William Owings,
and Job Smith, who brought this fuit againfi Gabriel
Wood, to recover the money-received by him under the
deed aforementioned.
-Judgment was conteffed by the defendant below, fubje& to the opinion of the court on a cafe feated, of which
the foregoing were the material fads.
The court gave judgment in favor of the affignees, to
which judgment a writ of error was fued out by the prefent plaintiff.
The only queftion made by the counfel was, whether'
the deed, ftated in the cafe, was an ad of bankruptcy.
On the 4 th of April,* i8oo, congrefs pailed an ad t6
eflablifl an uniform fyflem of bankuptcy throughout

FEBRUARY, 18o3.

251

fhe United States, Which declares, among other things,
that any merchant who fhall, after the firpc day of June
next fucceeding the paffage of the a&, with.intent un.
lawfully to delay or' defraud his creditors, make or caufe
to 'be made any fraudulent conveyance of his lands or
chattels, fhall be deemed and adjudged a bankrupt.
It was admitted, in the argument, that this deed, if ex-.
ecuted after the ift day of June, would have been an adl
of bankruptcy, but that being fealed and delivere.d on the
3 oth of May, it was'not within the a&, which oniycomprehends conveyances made after the I it of June.
For the defendants in error,' it was contended, that,
by the laws of Maryland, -a deed is not complete until it
is acknowledged, and therefore this conveyance was made
on the 14 th of June, when it was acknowledged; and
not on the 3 oth of May, when it 'Was fealed and delivered.
The Maryland ad alluded to was paffed in 1766, and
-declares, "9 that after the firif day of.May next, no eftate
Ot of inheritance or freehold, or any declaration or limi-c tation of ufe, or any eftate for above feven years, fhall
" pafs or take effed, except the deed or conveyance, by
" which the fame ihall be intended to pafs 'or take effed,
fhall be acknowledged in the provincial court, or before
It one of the juftices thereof, in the county court, or be- fore two juftices 'of the fame county where the lands,
,, tenements, or horeditaments; conveyed by fuch deed
19or conveyance do lie, and be alfo enrolled, &c. within
,49 fix months after the date of fuch deed or convey" ance."
The 5 h feclion gives the conveyance, fo acknowledged
and enrolled, Telation to the date thereof.
It is a well eftabliffied dodrine of -the common law,
that a deed becomes complete, when fealed and'delivered.
It then becomes the ad of the perfon who has executed
it, and whatever its operation may be, it-'is -his deed.
The very a& of livery, which puts the paper into the
puflffion of the party for whofe benefit it is made, feems
.to require the.conftrudfion that it hai becomne a deed..

WooD
V.
OWINGS-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WooD
IV.
OwI"I-s.
1

The queftion now made to the court is, whether the a6k
of the legiflature of Maryland has annexed other requi.
fites to an inftrument of writing conveying lands, without the performance of which, not only the paffing of the
eftate, intended to be conveyed, is arrefted, but the in.
ftrument itfelf, is prevented from becoming the deed of
the perfon who has executed it.
Upon the moft mature confideration of the fubje&,
the opinion of the court is, that the words, ufed in the
a& of Maryland, which have been recited, confider the
inftrument as a deed, although inoperative 'till acknowledged and enrolled,
The words do not apply to the inftruient, but to the
eftate that inftrument is intended to convey.
Since then the bankrupt law of the United States does
not affed deeds made prior to the ift of June, 18oo, and
this deed was made on the 3 oth of May, i 8OQ, the court
is of opinion, that the rights, vefted by the deed, (whatever they might be) are not divefted in favor of the affignees of the bankrupt, and therefore, that they ought
not to have recovered in this cafe,
Judgment reverfed-and judgment of non pros to be
entered.

UNITED STATES v. SIMMS.

E

U. STA'rTs

.V.
SIMM,.

V
The a&sf congrefs of t 7 th
Feb. and 3d of
March, x8or,
concerning the

]ERROR from the circuit court of the diftriC
of Columbia, fitting at Alexandria, to reverfe a judgment rendered by that court for the defendant, on an indidment for fuffering a faro bank to be played in his
houfe, contrary to an a6 of affembly of Virginia.
The indidtment fets forth that Simms,

"

on the ift

diftridl of Co- cc April, i8oi, with force and arms, at the county of
lumbia, have
wt changed

49

Alexandria, did fuffer the game called the faro bank to

