SUPREME'COURT U. S.

a290
iHOMPSON

IV.
JANAESO.

th. It is the province of the jury and not ofthe court
to lix the value of fterling money.
,.ffaJh.373. 378.
'Barnet and al. v.Watfon and al.
dth Although the year. of the decree'is n'ot ftated in
the declaration, yet enough is ftated to render it certain.
Key was to have argued on the fame fide, but on exainination of the record of the decree in Fairfax, and comparing it with the declaration ; and finding the decree
to be for -'.86.
x2. i. fterling with intereft from a certain day to the dzy of.pafing the decree, and the declaration
being only for the prin-pa4 he tonfidered the variance.
as fatal. He had not before noticed accurately the words.
of the decree, but had fuppofed the intereft did not ftop
at any certain day, but was, by the decree, to run till the
time of payment. Ho did not underftand that this poi it
had been made in. the court below, and therefore had Tk'
before examined the record with a view to it.
The court gave no ,opinion upon the other points, but,
confidering this variance as fatal,
*Revirfed thejudgmeht.
1Te thief juflice obferved, that there was no claufe ivz
the declaration ftating that Thompfon undertook to pay
'if Hadfield did not, and therefore an aation of debt would
not lay.
'MANDEVILLEAND JAMESON

MA NDE.V.

VILLE & AL.

WV.

JOSEPH RIDDLE AND CO.

RIDDLE
& AL.
In Virginia, an
indorfce of a
pronlor oDOteic•
inrfut
o

1

Columb

can not main- of Columbia
tain inadion cae 'brought

i

.. court of the diftri&
from 1the circuit

fitting.at Alexandria, ui an anion on. the

by the defehdant in error for money had and

againfi L reot .rtceirved, which was the only count in the declaratiopi
indorfcr, for
wat of jri;j,.and to

which Ahe defendant pleaded the general iffue.

FEBRUARY, t8oB.

291

The evidence offered and admitted to fupport the deelaration was a promiffory note made by Vincent Gray,
dated at Alexandria on the 2d of March 1798, by which
he promifed to pay~fixty days after date to the order of
Mandeville and Jamefon ISoo dollars for value received,
negotiable at the bank of Alexandaia. 'This note was
indorfed by Mandeville and Jamefon to James M'Clenachan, and by him to Jofeph. Riddle and co. the defendants in error. The proteft of. a notary public made on
the fifth May 1798, attefting that lie had on that day
demanded payment of the note of the maker, who refufed, and of Mandeville and Jamefon the firft indorfers,
who alfo refufed, and that James M'Clenachan the other
indorfer did not dwell in his diftri&. The record of a fuit
on the fame note brought by Jofeph Riddle and co. on the
14 th of June 1798, againft Vincent Gray, the maker, profecuted to final judgment and execution, upon which execution he was committed to jail and took the oath of an
infolvent debtor and was difcharged, on the 6th of February 1799.
The prefent afion was commenced in July x8os.
A bill of exceptions was taken by the defendants below,
ftating thefe faas, and that they prayed the opinion of
the court,
ift Whether, this aqibn could be fuftained by the pre.
fent " plaintiffs againif the prefent defendants, there be"ing an intermediate indorfer between them," and,
2dly. "Whether if the faid aaion is fuftainable, the
"faid evidence is admiffibte upon afingle count for money
". had and reoeived," and that the opinion of the court.
below was that the ailion might be fuftained, notwithfianding the intermediate indorfer; and that the evidence
was admiffible upon the ,fingle count for money bad and
received. Verdia and judgment-for the plaintiffs for
1919 'dollars and cofts, to reverfe which, the defendanto
below fued out the prefent writ of error.
E. 7; Lee and Swann, for plaintiffs in error.
Simma for defendants.

MAlvzVILLE

& A4.

q).
RIDDLI

& AL.

SUPREME COURT U. S
4tnz-

E. ..

Lee.

VILLE & AL.

'v.
RIDDL

&

AL.

i A. The acion of indebtatus aljumpfit will not lay. foi
the holder againft a remote indorfer, becaufe there is nc
privity of eftate or privity of contra&. It is an acion
at common law; and by the common law no aelion of
indebitatus afumpflt for money had and received will lay except Ietween privies.

Kyd. I.IS. (x3,

114)

id. There being only one count in the declaration, and
that being only for money had and received, the note
ought not to have been given in evidence, becaufe it muft
have been a furprife to the defendants. In England it is
ufual to give notice of the plaintiffs real ground of alftion
either by a fpecial count, or by a formal notice. - The defendants could not come prepared to defend the adion.
'The a&'ron for money had and received is faid to be in the
nature of a fuit in equity. But here the defendants
were in a worfe fit~uation, than if a bill in chancery had
been filed againft them ; for in that cafe the bill muft
have ftafed the grounds of the claim and fhown the equitable circumftances which entitled the plaintiffs to recover.
A remote indorfer is liable to the holder only upon the
cuftom of merchants, and therefore there ought to have
been a fpecial count ftating the cuftom.
The Englifh ftatute of Anne refpeCaing promiffory
notes is not in force in Virginia; and the act of aflembly
which fupplies its place only allows an affignee to bring
an adion of debt in his own name againft the maker of
the note, but gives no remedy againft the affignors. Hence
it refults that the remedy of*the affignee againft the affignors is either at common law or under the cuftom of
merchants. By the common law the adion of indebitatu,
a/rnpft lies only between privies; and here is no privity.
And if refort be hadto the cuftom of merchants; that cuftom muft be averred in the declaration.
Simmx,-contra.
Every indorfer is as the maker of a new note. i Strange,
479, Srallwocd v. Vernn. Efp. N. p. 33. a Bur. 674,

FEBRUARY, 1803.

293

Hey/in v. Adainfon. He uidertakes to pay the fum mentioned in the note, if the original maker does not. As
foon as the, original maker fails, to comply with his engagement, that of the indorfer becomes abfolute. He
then-becomes the holder of fo much money as is expreffed
in the note, to the iife of hi immediate indorfee, or of fuch
perfon as he fhall name.
It is true the plaintiffs below have fought their remedy
at common law ; and by. commori law they are entitled to.
recover. Every man ought to be compelled to pay money
which he has in his hands belonging to another, and which
in equity and good confcience he has no right to retain,
And the principle is now well eftablifhed that at common
law he may be compelled to pay it, by an aaion for money
-had and received.
As to theevidence, offered on this count, it was long
doubted, before the ftatute of Anne -whether any other
.than an aaion of indebitatus afumpfit for money had and
received, or for money lent, would lay upon a note. This
was the ground of contention between lord Holt and the
merchants of" Lombard ftreet; he ftrenuoufly contending
that the alion for money had and received, or for money
lent, was the'only proper remedy; and.they endeavodifig
to bring into ufe the form of declaring upon a note as a
fpecialty. Although a.note may now, under the flatute,
be declared upon as a foefialty, yet the ftatute has not
taken away the common law remedy which exifted before.
As tofurprize, the objefion made would go to almoft
every cafe where money had and received is the proper
aafion, fuch as where the confideration happens to fail,
or where money has been paid.by miftake, &c.
Indorfement is evidence that the indoifer has received
money of the indorfee. And at and from the time of the
indorfement, the indorfer is debtor to the indorfee, and
he debt may be proved under a commiffion of bankruptcy
againft the indorfer before the note is payable.
In this cafe however there could be no furprize, the
defendants below had notice of the non-payment of the
note and that they would be held liable; and it is imma-

MANDtVILLE & AL.

.
RIDOLK

& AL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MANWEVILLE & AL.
RIDDLE

& AL.

terial by what means notice is given.
champ v. Kenny.

Doug. 138, Lo1g

In the cafe of Grant v. Vaughan, 3. Bur. 15 16, the cafes upon promiffory notes before the ftatute of Anne are
taken up and confidered witl great clearnefs and ability
by the court. Every principle eftablifhed in that cafe
furnifhes an argument for the original plaintiffs in this.
The cafe there was, that Vaughan drew a check or order
on his banker in thefe words (" payjbip Fortune or bearer
SC.7o.") and gave-it to Bicknell, who loft it. It was
found by fome perfon, and honeftly taken in payment for
goods by the plaintiff, in his way of trade as a mercer.
Payment of the check being ftopped at the bankers, the
plaintiff brought fuit againft Vaughan the drawer, and
declared upon an inland bill, and for money had and received to his ufe. It was held that thefe notes are, by
law, negotiable and wereJo before the jiatute of A4nne, and
that the bearer of them might maintain an a&ion as bearer,
where he could entitle himfelf to them on a valuable confideration, and for this wyas cited Hinton's cafe, 2 Shower
235, in the reign of Charles 2d.
Crawly v. Crowther, 2 Freeman 257, inthe year 17o2,
before the flatute of Anne.

r. Salk. 126 pl. 5. Anonymous, 10th Will.. 3 d.
Miller v. Race, t. Bur. 452. '3

.And

Geo. 2.

That the only difpute before the flatute of Anne was as
to the mode of declaring; but that it never'was difputed
At that an a&ion upon an indebitatus affumpfit generally for.
"mgney lent, might be brought upon a note payable' to
,cone or order;" and cites 2d lord Ray, 758, Clirke v. Marl
vin. " That upon the fecond," lord Mansfield faid," the
ac prefent cafe is quite clear,, beyond all difpute. For uncc doubtedly, an a&ion for money had and received to the
" plaintiff's ufe, may be brought by the bonafide beaier of
9 a ote made payable to bearer. There is no cafe to the
kc ".ntrary. It was certainly -money received fiar the ufe
t of the original advancer of it ; %nd if fo, it is for the ufe
"9of the perfon, who has the.note & bear.'r."
And Wilmot, juftice, faia, that it was notorious, ihu
tuch notes were in fa andracticenegotiated. ifProba-

FEBRUARY, 18o 3 .
"bly, the jury took upon themfelves to confider, whether MAsDa.
"fuch bills, or notes as this is, ,were in their ovn nature VILL E & AL.
IV.
" negotiable;but this is a point of law ; and by law,'they
" are negotiable." And again he fays, " but this is a RIDDLE
& AL.
" negotiable note and the a&ion may be brought in the
"
"cname of the bearer. Bearer is defcriptio perfona ; and
9D
" a perfon'may take by that.defcription, as well as by any
" other. In the nature of the contra&, there is no impropriety i his doing fo. Itis a contra& to pay the bearer,
"1orto the perfon to whom he fhall deliver it, (whether it be
" a note or-a bill of exchange; ) and it is repugnant to the
9, contraR, that the drawer fhould objed that the bearer
" has no right to demand payment from him. The rea",fons given in the cafes that are oppofite to this are alto, gether unfatisfafory." Even before the flatute of 3 and
cc 4 Annei lord chief juftice Holt himfelf thought, that an
" ildebitatus afJumpit for money lent, or for money had-and
received, might be maintained upon fuch a note."
And Yates, juftice, faid'" Nothing can be more peculi" arly negotiable than a draught or bill payable to bearer ;
" which is, in its nature,payable'from hand to hand, toties
".quoties." " It had been doubted, it istrue, 'whether that
"9fpecies of a&jon, where the plaintiff declares upon the
" note itfef as upon a fpecialty, wits proper ; but here is a
" count upon a general indebitatus affunipfit, fir n.oney had
"c and received to the plaint iff's ufe. The queftion, whether
" he can maintain this a&ion, depends upon its be.
", ing afigtiable, or not
The original advancer of "the
" moneymanifeftly appears to havehad the money in the
", hands of the drawer, and therefore he was certainly
"c entitled to bring 'this a&ion. And if he transfers his
" property to atiother.perfon, that 6ther perfon may alfo
" maintain the like a~1ion. Whoever has money in the
", hands of another may bring fuch an dion againft him.
"9This appears from the determination in the cafe of Ward
"cv. Evans, reported in 2 lord Ray, 930; where not a
"Jhillingof money had pa/ffd betzveen the plaintifand defen"dant ; and yet Holt and Powell both held that an inde" bitatus aumpft for monies received to the plaintiff's
" uf'e, properly lay."
This cafe clearly thews, that afions upon promiffory"
.otes payabli to bearer, or,ertler, might have been main.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MANDr1VILLE

&

AL.

'V.
RtDDLE

& AL.

tained before the ftatute of Anne ; and that fuch a&ions
did not depend upon theprivity of contraa. There certainly is not more privity of contrad between the drawer
of a note, and the bearer, (efpecially after that note has
been loft by the lawful owner, and comes to the hands
of the plaintiff through thefinder) than between the'maker of a note payable to order, and the indorfee
It alfo
thows, that there are certair, inftruments, which are'negotiable in their own nature by force of the.contra,'?itfeyf, independent of ffatute law; and that a promifee may ag well
be defcribed by being the bearer of a certain paper, as by
being named *ith his chriftian and furname. And if he
may be defignated by the fac of being the bearer of a
paper, there is no reafon why he may not equally be defcribed by the fad of his being the nominee of a certain
other perfon, and the holder of a certain note.
There is no doubt that before the ftitute of Anne notes
were paffed from one to another, and adions for mo'ney
had and received were, on common law principles, maintaijied by the bearers and indorfees. The indorfement
was confidered as conveying or affigning the money of the
payee in the hands of the maker ; and the original contrad of the maker was, to hold the money to the ufe of
the payee or of fuch perfon as he fhould appoint. Privity
of contrad is not the ground of the adion for money.had
and received. And among the many cafes of that kind,
.there will be fcarcely found one in which fuch a privity
has exifted. If I lofe money, I may have this a&ion againft
the finder. If A. delivers money to B. to be paid over to
C. the latter may maintain this a&ion againif B. If a
man, under pretence of authority from me, receive money
due to me, I may recover it of himin this form of adion.
So if I pay money to another by miftake. So if a man
obtains money from me by fraud and deceit. So if the confleration of a bargain fail. So if one pretending to a
right to an office receive fees, the 'rightful officer may,
by an a6tion for money had and received, recover of him
the amount of fees fo received.
The. indorfer is a new drawer as to all the fubfequent
parties. He has received Money from his indorfee which
he engages to hold to his ufe, or to the ufe of fuch perfon as he fhall appoint, in cafe the maker *does not pay

FEBRUARY,. i8o.
the note on demand. This principle refults from the M-ANDrcuftom of merchants; for the moment a promiffory note VILLE &AL.
V.
payable to order, is indorfed, it becomes, in its nature,
independent of any flatute, an inland bill of eMhange, RIDDL*
& AL.
both in form and fubftance. The indorfer orders the
maker to pay to the indorfee, or his order, the fum of money mentioned in the note. The maker by figning the note
acknowledges that he has effeds of the payee, to the
amount of the note, in his hands; and by makinig the
note. payable to the order. of the payee, he authorizes
the payee to draw upon him for that amount, andcpledges
himfelf to honour the draft.. An acceptance may be.
made before the bill is iffued, and is equally binding as if
made after. Kyd. 48. 49. Fhe fignature of the maker
to'the note is an acceptance of the: payee's bill. No part
.or circumfiance of a bill of exchange is wanting.
The plaintiffs' below therefore were clearly entitled to
recover the money from the defendants; and therefore
the 'defendants ought not in juftice and good faith 'to
withhold it. In fuch a cafe there never has been a doubt
but that the bill may be given in evidence on the count
for money had and received.

Swann in reply.
If the ind'orfer is liable, it muft be under the a6d of
affembly. But the ad of affembly gives an action only
againft the maker, as is evident from the provifion for
allowing all juft difcounts, not onl againft the holder
but againft his affignor bc'Fore notice. No cafe can be
found of an affion for moncv had and received brought
by an indorfee againft a remote indorfer, either before the.
ftatute of Anne or after. The 'cafes cited are of a note
payable to bearer.
"If any aftion will lay, it muft be on the ftatute of
Virginia.
•Marbal, chiefjufliei.
It. is decided in Virginia that an adion is maintainable
by. the.affignee againft the aflignor,
and not under the a&
I
of affembly.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1t

ANDI-

VILLE & AL. of

February 26th. The chiefjuftice delivered the opinion
the court.

IV.

RiDDYI
& AL.

"The only queftion in this cafe is, Whether an :a&ion
indebitatus q'fump/it can be maintained by the affignee
Sof
"of a promiffory note made in Virginia, againft *a re-,
mote. affignor.
,,The a& of the Virginia affembly which makes notes
"affignable, gives the affignee an a&ion of debt in his own
" name againft the maker of the note, but is filent with
"refpe& to the Claim of the affignee againft the affignor.
".It was therefore long a doubt whether the affignor be"came liable on his mere affignment, without any fpecial
"agreement, for the contents of the note, in the event
"of the infolvency of the maker. This doubt has at
"length been fettled in Virginia, fo far as to declare the
-lialstty of the aflignor on fuch affignment ; but not the
"amount for which he is liable. It feems to be yet a quef"tion whether he is anfwerable for the fum mentioned in
." the note, or for only fo much as he received for it,
"provided he thall be able to prove, the fum a&ually re" ceived. It is alfo a queftion whether the 'affignee can
" have recourfe to any other than his immediate. affignor.
" As the a& of affembly gives no right to fue the af" fignor, fuch an aaion can only be maintained on the
Is pro mife which the law implies from the affignment, and
" confequently can only be fuftained by and againft the
"perfons to and from whom the law implies fuch a pro"mife to have been made.. As the affignment is made to
"a particular perfon, the law implies a promife to that
,perfon ; but it raifes no promife to'any other. There
"is no fat on which to imply fuch promife.
"In the language of the books, there is a privity be"tween the aflignor and his immediate affignee; but no
-privity is perceived between the aflignor and his remote
cc aflignee. The implied promife growing out of the in" dorfement, is not 'confidered as having been made af-.
"figpnable by the aCt of affembly; and therefore the af-fignee of that promffe can not maintain an aftion of
, indebitaius afiflnpfit on it.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
" It is therefore the opinion of fle court that this ac-

MAN91.

& AL.
" tion is not maintainable and that the judgment ought VILLEIV.
"to ke reverfed."O
RIDDLXt
& AL.

STUART v.LAIRD.

STUART

ERROR from the Sth circuit in.
the Virginia dif-

An a&ion of covenant was brought in January 180

L.A I RD.
I RD.

A caufe may,
by a& of con.
tranone
grefs, be
1, ferred
from

from n
in " the court of the United Statesfor the middle circuit in the
,,Virginia di/Irit," by John Laird, a citizen of the ftate to another.
of Maryland, for and on behalf of Laird and Robertfon A contempora"

of port Glafgow aiid fubjeds of the king of Great Bri-iry expofition of
conftitution,
pra&ifed
and
tain, againft Hugh Stuart, a citizen and inhabitant of the
acquiefccd unthe ifate of Virginia.
der for a period
At the rules inFebruary, z8o i,there was an office ofthyears,cfie
judgment againft the defendant for damages, &c. "which tion; and the
9 damages," fays the record, " are to be enquired of and court will not.
or co" affeffed by a jury to be fummoned by the mirfhal, and ihake
trol it.
States
" impannelled before the next court of the United
" for the middle circuit in the Virginia di/rit, which comcmences on the 22d day of May next enfuing, and fo the
" cailfe aforefaid flood continued, by virtue oft the.Jflatute
" infuch cafe made and provided, until the court of the Uni" ted Statesfor thefourth circuitin the Virginia di/rit7, con"tinuedby adjournment and holden at the capitol in the
city of Richmond aforefaid, on Thurfday the t 7th day
of Decvber i8o; ; at which day, to wit, at a court of
"the United States for the fourth circuit in the eaqjern
cdiftri& of Virginia, continued by adjournment, and
" holden at the capitol in the city aforefilid, before the
" honorable the judges of the faid court, came as well,
'o/ime of reportt.
See note (A.) in tAr apPendix to this

