214

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The very exiftence of the court whofe judgment is complaineA of, is derived from the United States. The laws
adopted forthe North-weitern Territory derive their whole
obligatory effed from the ordinance of the old congrefs,
and are in fad, laws of the United States, although copied from ftate laws. All power and authority exercifed
in that territory have emanated from the United States ;
and all offences there committed are againft the authority
of the United States.

CLARK
'
BAZADOMN.

v

If then this is a cafe by the confitution cognizable by
the judicial authority of the United States; if by the
conflitution, this court has appellate jurifdi&,ion in all
fuch cafes, and if this cafe is not within any exception
made by the conflitution or by any ad of congrefs, so.
thing is wanting but to devife a modeto bring the caufe before this court. The writ of error is the common and well
known procefs in like cafes, and by the fourteenth fe&ion
of the judiciary ad of 1789, every court of the United
States is exprefsly authorized "to iffue writs offiirefaias,
" habeas corpus, and all other writs not fpecially provided
" for by ftatute, which may be necefaryfor the exercife o
" their rcfpefive jurifditions, and agreeable to the princi-

44 pies and ufages of law." If then the court hasjurifdidion, no difficulty can occur as to a mode of exercifing it.

The court quafhed the writ of error,
On the ground that the a& of congrefs had not authorized an appeal or writ of error, from the general court of
the North-weftern Territory, and therefore, although from
the manifeft errors on the face of the record, they felt
every difpolition to fupport the writ of error, they were
of opinion they could not take cognizance of the cafe.
HOOE AND CO. v. GROVERMAN.
'Roo ?

Co.

IV.

ERROR

OROVER.

GROAE..
... .

from the circuit court of the difirid

of Columbia, in an adion of covenant by Grovernan, ow-ier of the brig Naricy, againft Hooe and co.

4

FEBRUARY,

803.

215

the freighters, for demurrage, at the port of Falmouth, Hoop &co
.
in England, from the s9 th of June to the iith of 8eptember, 1798, at the rateof

L.6

6 o fterling perdiem.

GRovEY.
MAN.

The declaration alleged the breach of the covenant
in not paying the demurrage, and the caufe went to trial
in the court below, upon the iffue of covenants performed. The jury found the following fpecial verdi&, viz.
" We, of the jury, find that the defendants and plaintiff made and executed the charter-party hereunto annexed, in thefe words, to wit: " This charter-party
"indented," &c. " witneffeth that the faid Groverman
hath grantel, and to freight letten to the faid R. T.
"Hooe and company, the brig, whereof he is owner,
, called the Nancy, commanded by James Davidfon, *a
" citizen -of the United States aforefaid, now lying in
" the port of 'Alexandria, of the burthen of 197 tons or
" thereabouts; and for and in confideration of the cove" nants herein after mentioned, doth grant, and to freight
"let unto the faid R. T. Hooe and co. the whole tonnage of
" the aforefaid veffel, called the Nancy, from the port of
" Alexandria in Virginia, to the port of Havre de Grace
in France, and back to the faid port of Alexandria ;
"in a voyage to be mde by the faid R. T. Hooe and co. with
" the faid brigantine, in manner after mentioned, that is.
to fay ; to fail, with the firif fair wind and weather
" that flhall happen after (he is fully and completely laden,
"from the faid port of Alexandria, with a cargo of to"bacco, to be fhipped by the laid R. T. Hooe and co.
' to the faid port of Havre de Grace ; and there deliver
" faid cargo to Mefrs. Andrews and co. of that town,
merchants, or to their affigns, in good order, the dan"ger of the feas only excepted. And at the faid port of
" Havre de Grace to take on board a full freight or lading
"of fuch goods as the faid Andrews and co. may think
c proper to put on board faid brig, as a return cargo ;
"with which faia vellel is to make the beft of her way
dire1ly back to the port of Alexandria, and there fafely deliver fuch cargo, the danger of the feas only ex"cepted, to the Laid R. T. Hooe and co. And the Laid
"Groverman dot'further covenant and agree to and with
"the faid R. T. Hooe and co. their executors, &c. that
"the laid brig now is, and at all times during the faid
"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-ooE & co.
'U.
GROV RMAN.

voyage fliall be, to the beft endeavours of him the faid
c Grovermart, and at his own proper coft and charges, in
" all things made and kept tight, fliff, flaunch, Itrong,
"

"'

and well apparelled, furnificd 'and well provided, as

- well with men and mariners fufficient and able to fail,
c guide and govern the faid veffel, as with all manner of
" rigging, boats,
tackle and apparel, furniture, provic fions and appurtenances fitting and neceffary for the
" voyage aforefaid. And the faid Grovermarn doth further
" covenant and agree to and with the faid R. T. Hooe
" and co. that he will allow them twenty-five running
- days from the date hereof for the lading on board thle
" faid veffel, the aforefaid cargo of tobacco at the port of
i Alexandria ; ten working days for difcharging 1716d car:
" go at the port of Havre tie Grace, to be computed from
-1 the day after fhe comes to her moorings at the faid port;
c and twenty days more after the f'iid ten days run out,
- for lading on board the aforefaid return cargo ; alfo teni
4c working days after faid veffel arrives back and is per" mitted to an entry at the cutom -houfe at Alexandria
c for receiving her inward cargo, which is to be delivered
at the wharves of faid R. T. Hooe and co.
" In confideration wl'ereof the faid R. T. Hooe and co.
"doth covenant, promife and grant to and with the faid
" W.
Groverman, his executors &e. by thee prefents;
" that they, the faid R. T. Hooe and co. or their con" fignee, fhall and will pay to the faid V. Groverinan, or
" his affigns, at the port of Havre de Grace, the fum of
" 21,ooo livres tournois, in hard money, on difcharge of
livres, in
" the cargo of tobacco aforefaid ; alfo -7,200
" hard money, on fhipment of the return cargo aforefiid,
" and further, that they, the faid R. T. Hooe and co.
- fhall and will pay, or caufe to be paid, to him the faid
" W. Groverman, or his affigns, the fum of £8. 8.' .
" current money of Virginia, day by day, and for every
i day's demurrage, if any there fhould be by default of
"c them the faid R. T. Hooe and co. at the port of Alex" andria. And the fum of 50 livres, in- hard money, day
c by day, and for every day's demurrage, if any there
( fhould be by default of them the faid R. T. Hooe and
"co. or their affignee, at the port of Havre de Grace. And
t the faid R. T. Hooe and co. doth further covenant to
.5' and with the faid W. Groverman, and the aforefaid

FEBRUARY, 1803.

217

e James Davidfon, commander of the brigantine afore- HooE & co.
Iv
" faid, that Andrews and co. their confignee aforefaid,
" fhall pay to the faid captain, for his primage, five per GRoVERMAN.
" cent, upon the outward and inward freights at Havre
" de Grace and before his departure therefrom. For the
" true and faithful performance of the covenants in this
" charter party, the parties bind themfelves, each to the
"other, in the penal fum of C3000, current money of
Virginia, to be recovered by the party obferving, againft
In witnefs
" the party failing to perform, the fame.
whereof, we have hereunto interchangeably fet our
" hands and affixed our feals, this tenth day of April,
1x798."
" W. GROVERMAI4,
Seal.
" R. T. HOOE & Co.
Seal."
of And the provifional articles in thefe words, to wit,
4 The following provifional articles are concluded
" upon, made and agreed to by and between William
c Groverman, owner of the brigantine Nancy, command" ed by James Davidfon, and R. T. Hooe and co. fince
entering into the charter party hereto annexed.
" i. The captain, or commande- fhall be inftruCked
';by his owner, previous to his failing from tn . porz c:"
" Alexandria, to touch at Falmouth in fuch manner as t6
."

appear to his crew that there was a neceffity for his fo

( doing, there to lay offand on twenty-four hours, or longer if,
" defired, in day light, during which time there will come

off orders from Mr. Fox the American conful, Mr.
" Thomas Wilfon, of London, or'Meffrs. Andrews and
CCo. of Havre de Grace. 2. On receiving thefe orders,
"the captain, or commander, muft proceed diredly for
"Havre de Grace, London, Hamburg, Bremen or Rot"terdam, as he may be direded, and at on6 of thefe ports
" deliver his cargo, to fuch perfon or perfons as the afore"f aid orders may dire&. 3. If the veffel arrives at any
" other of the aforefaid ports than Havre de Grace, the
"ctime of difeharging the-outward cargo, taking in her
cc inward cargo, demurrage, if any there fhould be, her
" outward and inward freight, primage &c. fhall be the
" fame as if fihe had arrived at and difcharged at Havre
E2
"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'flooar & co.
'U.
GROVER-

de Grace, 4. The outward freight fhall be confidered
,as f875 fterling; the inward freight [300 flerling,
" primage five per cent. on the freights and the demurcA rage [6. 6. o. flerling, per dqy. And if the veffel dif" charges in London, the payments fflall be made in fter, ling cah ; if at any other port, in good bills of exchange
at 6o days on London, without diminution of the above
fums, except fo much as the captain may be authorized
" to receive for his port charges and difburfements.
" S. If the v/jl is detained over 24 hours at Falmouth, demurrageflallbe paid for the time at the rateflipulated in
" the charterparty.
6. Thefe articles fhall not be made
" known to any perfon whatever, except the captain and
" chief mate. The veffel fhall be cleared out for Havre de
" Grace only, and furnifhed with a role d'cquipage, and
It all other papers whatever that may be necefliary at this
" cuftom houfe.
No letters whatever Thall be received
" on board except fuch as the faid R. T. Hooe and co.
puts into the poflcflion and care of the captain.

"

" 7. The charter party firft entered into, the copy of
which is hereunto annexed, fhall be in force and conit fidered as the only contra& between the parties for this
" voyage, and go unconnected with thefe articles to Havre
"de Grace, and there and from thence govern, unlefs in
",
the cafe of the veffel being from Falmouth ordered to a
cc different port ; then, and in that cafe, the charter party
cc Thall only be confidered as the great outline8 of the bar" gain between the parties, to be pofitively governed by
4,thefe articles; but the 4 th article to be in force as to
it payments at any place.
"

cc In teftimony whereof, we have hereunto fet our
hands and affixed our feals, this i ith day of April,
1798.
9aWILLIAM GROVERMAN,
(Seal.)
" R. T. HOOE & co."
(Seal.)
It We find that James Davidfon, mater of the brigantine Nancy, in the faid charter party and provifional ar- ticles mentioned, on the morning before the departure
," of faid veffel from the port of Alexandria, figned an
acknowledgment written on faid provifional articles
in thefe words, to wit, " I do acknowledge that I am
"

FEBRUARY, i8o3.
"

gI9

to a& agreeably to the foregoing provirional articles, Hoor, & o.
notwithlitanding the charter party to Havre de Grace.
GRovEz.
" JAMES DAVIDSON."
MAN.

We find that the faid James Davidfon, before he
" failed from Alexandria on the voyage in the Laid pro" vifional articles mentioned, was told by R. T. Hooe,
" one of the defendants and freighters of laid veffel, that
"on his arrival off Falmouth, a town in England, he would
" receive inftru&ions from Mr. Fox, the American conful,
"and that, he muff abide by fuch inftrudfions. We find
" that on the twentieth of June, 1798, the faid veffel ar" rived in Falmouth roads, about three leagues from the
" port of Falmouth, and the laid James Davidfon, the
mafter thereof, laid the veffel to, off Falmouth, and im"mediately proceeded in a pilot boat to Falmouth, went
" on fhore and applied to the faid Fox, the American
1 conful, for orders where to proceed with the faid brig" antine and cargo.
The faid Fox told the faid Davidfon
" that he had not received any orders for him, and that
4( therefore he muft bring the brigantine Nancy into the
" port of Falmouth, and there remain with the faid brig" antine'and her cargo, until orders were received for him
" to proceed to his port of difcharge.
Upon receiving
" which anfwer and orders from the faid Fox, the Laid
" Davidfon, in conformity thereto, returned on board his
"L aid veffel with a pilot employed by faid Fox for the
." purpofe of conducting Laid veffel into the port of Fal" mouth ; and on the fame day the Laid Davidfon brought
"f aid veffel t; an anchor in the port of Falnouth afore" Laid.
We find that the faid Fox informed the Laid
" Davidfon, that he muff wait with faid veffel at anchor
" in the port of Falmouth, until the faid Fox could pro" cure orders for him from Thomas Wilfon of London;
" which Laid Fox and Wilfon are the fame pcrfons men" tioned and named in the aforefaid provifional articles.
" We find that on the 2 ;ft. day of June 1798, the Laid
" James Davidfon again went on fhore and reported his
'4 faid vefTel, and delivered his papers to the colleCtor of
" the cuftoms for the port of Falmouth aforefaid, which*
" papers the faid colle6or refufed to return, Laying that
" he fufpeLed the cargo on board faid veffel was French
" propcrty, and on the fame day caufed the. Laid veffP-l to
" be feized. We find that on the 23 d day of the faid month
" of June, the Laid Davidfon received orders from the faid
"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
11con & co. " Thomas Wilfon, through the faid Fox, to proceed with

Iv. I
GRovERMAN.

the faid veffl and cargo to the Downs, and thence to
London. We find that the faid veffel was detained in
' the port of Falmouth aforefaid from the faid 21 ft day of
June, 1798, until the ijth of September following,' in
" confequence of the, feizure aforefaid.
We find that
on the faid i ith day of September the faid veffel pro'c ceded from the port of Falmouth to the Downs by the
" aforefaid order of the aforefaid Thomas Wilfon. We
'v find that the faid Brigantine and cargo were the bona
"fide property of American citizens alone ; we find
" that by an a& of parliament of Great Britain, paffed on
"

" the 2 9 th year of George 3 d. ch. 68. S. 12, and in

, force at the tirhe the faid Brigantine arrived off Falmouth as aforefaid, it is ena&ed and provided in the
following words, to wit ;" " And be it further enad" ed &c." " And by the 3 oth fefion of the faid a&,
"it is enaded and provided in the following words to
"

wit,"

"t

Providtd always," &c.

" We find that the

"faid Fox urged the danger arifing under the faid ad as
"a reafon why the faid veffel fliould be brought to anchor
in the port of Falmouth, there to wait for the orders
"of the faid Thomas Wilfon of London, and why the
"faid veffel fhould not lay off Falmouth without the li" mits of the faid port. We find that the faid veffel
"was, on the faid 2oth of June, laden in part with
240,000 pounds of tobacco of the growth of the
"
"
"

United States. We find that the faid Davidfon, at
Falmouth aforefaid, made and entered a proteft in thefe
words, manner and form following, to wit, " To all
people," &c."

"We find that it was by the default of the defendants or their agents, in failing to have orders ready on
the arrival of the faid veflel off Falm6uth as aforefaid,
"defignating and direding to wvhich of the ports of difcharge mentioned in the fecond articld of the provi" fional articles aforefaid, the faid veffel was to proceed,
and by the orders given to the faid Davidfon by the
faid Mr. Fox, that the faid Davidfon did bring the
" faid veffcl to anchor in the faid port of Falmouth, and
" that the fid veffel and cargo were fubje&ed to the feiz, ure and detention aferefaid. If the law be for the plain"tiff we find for the plaintiff f 794. 19. 9. Virginia
"
"

FEBRUARY, 1863.

221

" currency, damages; If the jaw be for the defendants, Hoo; & co.
"

we find for the defendant.."
,.
GROvER-

The court below being of opinion that the law was for
the plaintiff, judgment was entered accordingly ; and the
defendants fued out the prefent writ of error.
Swann and Simms for plaintifts in error.

C. Lee and .E. 7. Lee for defendant.
Simms. Inthis cafe it is material to afcertain whether Hooe
and co. ought to be confidered as the owners of the veffel
and the captain as their agent, for the voyage; or whether Qroverman is to be confidered as the owner, and the
captain as his agent.
Whether the freighter or owner of a fhip, is to
be confidered as the owner for the voyage, depends
upon the nature of the contra6 between them. If the
frefghter hires and employs the maferf, and the mafter
is iubje& to his orders and diredion during the voyage,
then the frieghter is confidered as the 6wner for the
voyage; but if the owner hires nd employs the captain
and hands, then -he is the owner for the voyage, and liable for their mifcondu&ft. This fully appears from the
cafe of Vallejo v. Wheeler. Cowp. 143.
In the preffnt cafe, Groverman was to employ and pay
the mafter ind the mariners. He covenauts that they
thall perform a fpecific voyage ; that the veffel fhall fail
with the firft fair wind after the is fully laden ; that the
cargo fhall be delivered in good order, the danger of the
feas only excepted ; that the veffel was at the time of
making the charter party, and fhould continue during
the voyage, at his expenfe, tight, ftaunch and well
found. The captain and crew, therefore, muft have
been fubjecl to the control of Groverman during the
voyage, and he was liable for their mifcondut, and if
any lofs happened thereby, he, and not the freighters,
was to bear it.
Indeed, it is exprefsly ftipulated that the owners lhall
give inftrudions to the captain to touch at :Falmoilth,

MAN.

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
HooE & co. there to lay off and on 24 hours or longer if defired, in
'v.
GRoVJa-E
MAN.

V

day light, for orders from Mr. Fox, Mr. Wilfon or
Meffrs. Andrews and co. and that on the receipt of
fuch orders, he fhould proceed to the port direaed by
thofe orders..
If the captain has difobeyed his inftru&ions from his
owner and employer, the freighters furely can not be
liable. Groverman muff look to his agent, the captain,
for redrefs. It is probable, however, that the captain
did the beft he could for the intereft of all concerned;
and there is no more reafon that the owner fhould look
to the freighters for indemnification for the detention of
his fhip, than there is for the freighters looking to the"
owrder for indemnification for the detention of their goods.
If the captain deviated from his inflruffions, it was at his
and his employers' rifk.
But the captain was bound by the provifional articles
to carry the veffel into Falmouth. She was there in the
regular courfe of her voyage, and, by the articles, Hooe
and co. had a right to detain her there upon payment of
the ftipulated fum for demurrage. Being then in the tegular courfe of the voyage, the detention by a foreign
power gives no right to claim demurrage, for the time fhe
was in the hands of the lritifh government under the
feizure. The remedy of Groverman was againft his infurers, and iot againft the freighters. If he has not infured, it was his own fault and be muff ftand his own infurer. Parh on itfurance, 87, 88, 89. 2 Burr. 696,.
Gofi v. Withers. If the owner could recover demurrage
from the freighters on the detgntion by a foreign government, that detention might continue fo long that the ftipulated demurrage might amount to twice the valtie of
the fhip and cargo. He had a right to abandon to the
underwriters; but the freighters can never be prefumed
to have become infurers. •Hooc and co. contra&ed to pay
demurrage for fuch detention only as fhould happen
through their default; but here the detention was by
the Britifh government, The court below have therefore
erred in giving judgment for the plaintiff on the fpecial
verdid foi" the whole demurrage, from 2. ft June to xi th
of Septermber, 1798. The veffel was feized before the
;expiration of the twenty-four hours, which were allowed by

FEBRUARY, i8c,3.
he agreement.

223

Hooe and co. therefore, were not liable Hoot &co

to psty any demurrage at all. Or if it fhall be confidered
that Hooe and co. were liable for demurrage after the veffel had been twenty-four hours at Falmouth, until orders were received from Thomas Wilfon, they could be
bound to pay only for two days, becaufe it is found that
the captain received his orders to fail for London on the
2 3 d of June. If Hooe and co. were liable for thofe two
days' demurrage. and no more, the court below ought to
have awarded a venirefaciasde novo.
But if Hooe and co. had not a right to order the brig
to Falmouth, yet Groverman has not a right to r cover
the darhages he may have fuftained thereby, in the prefent adion, but his remedy was by a fpdcial affion on the
cafe. An action of covenant can only be maintained
for not doing an a& covenanted to be done, or for doing
an aE cover.anted not be done. There was no covenant
on the part of Hooe and co. that the veffel fhould not go.
into the port of Falmouth; and if there was, yet the
plaintiff in his. declaration does not aver fuch a covenant,
or declare on the breach of it. The only breach affigned
is the non-payment of demurrage. If the. veffel had no
right to go into the port of Falmouth, then her going in
is not a cafe provided for by the contraa, and confe.
quently the contra& can form no rule for afcertaining
the damages.
If the veffel had a right to go into Falmouth, then the
confequent feizure is not chargeable to Hooe and co. If
fhe had not a right to go in, then no damages can be recovered in the prefent form of adion ; nor in any otheri
becaufe the aa complained of, is Groverman's own a&,
or the ad of his agent, the captain, for whofe condud
Groverman himfelf is refponfibe.
It is true the jury have found that it was by the default
of Hooe and co. in not having orders ready at Falmouth,
thAt the veffel was obliged togo into the port, and that the
feizure and detention took place. But if this is a breach
of any one of the covenants, yet it is the breach of a covenant not declared upon, nor is the breach affigned, and
therefore no damages canbe given in this adion, for the

breach of that covenant.

v.

Glov tMAN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HooE & co.
"V.

GROVE,.f
N

E.

J.

Lee, for defendant in error.

Hooe and co. were owners for the voyage. The cap..
tain was bound to obey their orders. Fox and Wilfon

were their agents. They, by their agent, ordered the
veffel into port, conttary to the terms of their agreement;
the detention was the confequence of their mifcondu&

and they ought to be liable for demurrage.
If a pdrfon hires a chattel, the hirer is the owner for
the time for which he has hired it. CoWp. '43, Valejo
v. Vheeler. In that cafe, p. 147, it is faid, that - there
" feems to be great reafon for a diflinaion between a
" generalfhip, and onethat is let tofright to afingle perfon
rhe former carries the goods of all mankind
" only.
" every man that chufes it, is at liberty to load his goods
( aboard her; and the merchant who fhips his goods in
He does not
" fuch a veffel, has no command over her.
" hire or employ the mafler ; neither is the mafter fubje&
But in the
" to his order or diredion during the voyage.
t cafe of a veffel let to freight to one merchant only, and by
" him alone freighted, he may be fuppfed to employ the
cc mafter, and have the direaion of the veffel and the voy 7
9 age ; and therefore whatever is done by the captain is to be
" confideted as done by the merchant'sfirvant."' The captain,
therefore, in taking the veffel into the port, when by the
agreement he was only to lay of and on, a&ed as the fervant of Hooe and co. and by their orders exprefsly given
through their agent Mr. Fox.
But if Hooe and co. were not owners pro hac vice, yet
having been the caufe of the veffel's going into port,
whereby fhe was feized, they are liable.
It is faid in Molloy, 375, (257,) Book, 2, ch. 4. §.9,
that " if the fhip, by reafon of any fault ari/ngfrom the
"freighter, as lading aboard prohibited or unlawful comC modities, ocafions a detention, or otherwife impedes
c the fhip's voyage, he fhall anfwer the freight contra&ed
" and agreed for."
It is immaterial what was the immediate. caufe of the
detentionj if it happened by the fault of Hooe and co.,
here is a pofitive covenant to pay demurrage if the 4.ffel
is detained.

FE13UARY, I 8o.

225

tut it is faid, We have not brought our affion for da- HooE & Co.
IV.
mages for carrying the veffel into port. It is true that
we have not; and the reafon is that the parties thomfelves GR6vRkMAN
having by covenant fixed the rate of damages, no aaion
but covenant would lay.
The furnifhing the veffel with men, furniture, &c. does
not mdke Groverman the owner. The captain figned the
provifional articles by which he bound himfelf to obey the
orders of Fox and others, the agents of Hooe and co.
and whether the captain was the agent of Groverman or
not, ftill Hooe and co. have rendered thenfelves liable
by ordering him to go into the port.
C. Lee, on the fame ide.
It is of no importance who was the owner; for the
detention is clearly the confequence of the default of
Hooe and co. The adion is brought for not paying demurrage according to exprefs covenant. The defence fet
up Is, that the veffel was improperly carried into the port.,
and that the captain being the agent of Groverman, he
muff abide the lofs. We admit that it was unlawful for
the veffel to go into the port; this is the ground of our
right. Suppofe the captain was the agent of Groverman,
and Fox the agent of Hooe and co. By whofe fault or
orders was the veffel carried in ? Clearly by the orders of
Hooe and co. No man has a right to order my fervant ;
but if he does, and by that means mifleads him, and a
lofs happens, he muff be liable. Hooe gave inffru&ions
to the mafter how to aa. If it was lawful for him to do
fo, then he muff be confidered as the owner, and the
obedience to his orders, in all its confequences, is chargeable to him.
If it was not'lawful, then his improper interference,
if it miflead the mafter, is alfo chargeable to him. Unlefs
he was the owner he had no right to inftru& the captain ;
it was a wrongful at. If he was the owner, there is
no pretence for not paying the demurrage.
If it fhould be faid that the a& of parliament, referred,
to in the fpecial verdi&, and which is generally called
F2

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Hoon & co. the. hovering aRT, juftihed the orders to carry the veflel
Iv.
G1-ovaKt-

into port, the anfwer is, that tle parties muff be fuppofed
to have underftood that bufinefs, and agreed to tht rdk.

MAN.
?

The finding of the jury refpeffing the orlers not be.
ing ready, although it is apparently in fdvour of the defendant in error, is not confidered as materially affeding
the cafe, becaufe, by the agreement, Hooe. and co. were
not bound to have the orders ready, but might keep the
veffel waiting, upon paying the ftipulated demurrage.
Swann for plaintiffs in error.
The queftions which feem to arife in this cafe are thefe,
z. Are Hooe and co. liable at all for this detention ?
2. If they are at all liable, are they liable in this form
of a&ion ?

ift. The veffel had a right to go into the port of Falmouth, and was therefore in the regular courfe of her
voyage.
If fo, then the feizure and detention of the veifel by
the Britifh government was n6t by the default of Hooe and
co. and the cafe is not within the contra&.
Hooe and co. were not bound abfolutely to have the
orders 'ead- on the arrival of the veffel at Falmouth;, but
the contra& provides for the cafe of the orders not being ready, and Hooe and co. were at liberty to detain the
veffel at Falmouth for orders, on paying a flipulated fum
for demurrage. The words of the 5 th provifional article
are, that 4 if the veffel is detained over 24 hours at Fal9 mouth, demurrage fhall be paid at the rate ifipulated
"1 in the charter party."
The parties are prefumed to
know the courfe of trade in the voyage about which they
were contrading
Cowp. 6oS, Bond v. .Nutt. They
muft have known that the veffel could not lawfully lay
off and on more than 24 hours without being liable to
feizure under the a& of parliament. This created a nec(ffity for the veffel's going into port. Not indeed a phyfical neceffity; that was not requifite to juftify it. ltwis

FEBRUARY, x~o3.
fufficient if in prudence and difcretion it was necefrary and Hoot & ck.
advifable for the general benefit of all parties concerned.
'V.
Cozvp. 6ot, Bondv. Nutt. Park 31o. Burnr M. In. )o3, GRt VEL_
MAN.
133. The words, ,, at Falmouth," ftrongly indicate this
to have been the underftanding of theparties themrfelves;
and the very action itfclf,, founded upon the contrad,
for demurrage at the port of Falmouth, is a dired affirmance of the right to go into the port. If the veffel had no
right to go into the port, then demurragecan not be claimed under the contra&, becaufe it is a cafe. not provided
for by the contra&. If the vefel bad a right to go into
the port, then Ihe was frill in the regular profecution of
her voyage at the time when'fhe was feized by the Britifh
government, and confequently the detention can not be
chargeable to Hooe and co. They have covenanted only
againft their own defauit and their own acts. Groverman had other means of fecuring himfelf againft all other
rifks. He ought to have infured ; if he has not, it is his
own fault; he ftands as his own infurer, and his remedy
is by recourfe t6 the Britifl' government. Suppofe the
veffel had been feized at Havre .dd Grace by the French
government: Can it be 'fuppofed that Hooe and co.
would have been liable? It will not be contended that
they would ; and yet there is in fad no difference between
the two cafes.
Hooe and co. can not be eonfidered as the owners,
becaufe, in the firft place, the hiring of the veffel was
not general, it is of the tonnage only ; this excludes 'the
cabin and the captain's perquifites. Groverman employs
the mafter and crew, and ftipulates for the good condition of the veffel during the voyage, and for the fae transpirtation of the -goods, the danger of the feas only excepted; thereby clearly making himfelf refponfible for
the fidelity and ood conduct of the mafter and mariners.
Grovernan was therefore clearly the owner of the veffel for the voyage. He covenants to inttru&l the captain
to touch at Falmouth. and wait for orders. He covenants
that the captain .fhall proceed to fuch port as fhall be
mentioned in thofe orders. Now he never would have
don~e all this if the captain was not fubjet to his control. If then the captain was the fervant of Groverman,
and has improperly carried the veffel into port, inftead
of laying off and on, how can Hooe and co. be liable

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Hoox.& co. for the confequences. It is faid, becaufe Fox advifed of
IV
dircted it; an Fox was the agent of Hooe and co.
GaovRM&N.

Then it amodnts to this, that Groverman, by his agent
ciptain, and Hooe and co. by their agent, Mr. Fox,
finding the veffiel to be in danger by laying off and on,
have confulted together amto the beft means of preventing lofs to all parties, and agreed that the veffel fhould go
into the port. To which of the parties is this error, if
it is one, to be imputed ? Certainly to neither; it was
their mutual a&, intended for their mutual benefit, and
neither has a right to complain, or to make the other
liable for the fubfequent, and perhaps confequent feizure
by the Britifhgovernment,

Sthe

*Fox had no authority to order the veffel, except as to
which of the ports mentioned in the provifional articles,
the fbould go. The direfions to the captain therefore
to come into the port, muft have been confidered by the
captain only as matter of advice. He was not bound to
follow it.
Suppofe I advife an a& to be done and it turns out
unfortunately, am I to be liable for the confequences ?
-Suppofe even that the veffel went in purely to oblige and
benefit Hooe and co. yet they would not thereby become
liable *for accidents happening without their default. If
my friend in coming to ferve me, receives an injury from
a third perfon, am I liable ,
If the proqifional articles d.o not provide for the; veffel's
going into the port, yet Mr. Fox and the captain aCted
correctly. A cafe arofe not provided for by exprefs contra6t ;.they did right therefore in mutually confulting for
the common good of their, employers,, and although the
refult of their deliberations may have proved unfortunate,
yet neither party can:crirminate the other.
2. If flooe and co. are liable at all, it is not int'his form
of aaion.
The covenants which they are bound to perform are,
x. To pay the freight.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
2. To furnifh orders at Falmouth.

HooE & co.
IV.

3. To pay fo much per diem for their own detentions.

G~ovimMAN.

Now it is admitted, that this detention was by the
Britifh government, and if the, veffel was in her voyage
while in the port of Falmouth, there was no default of
Hooe and co. by which that detention can be chargeable
to them. But if the veffel was out of her voyage, and;
had been carried into port by Hooe and co. contrary to
the agreement, then it is a cafe not provided for by the
charter party, and therefore, demurrageas fuch cannot be
claimed. In fuch a cafe the remedy would be only for
the tort. Suppofe they had burnt the veffel ; no afion
of covenant would lay for that wrong. The injury cornplainedof is the ordering the veffel into port.
Feb. 2 3 d.
the court.

The Chief Julice delivered the opinion of

This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the
circuit court of the diftri/l. of Columbia, fitting in Alexandria on the following cafe.
A charter party was entered into between the parties
on the tenth day of April, 1798, whereby Groverman let
to Hooe and co. a veffel,.of which he was owner, for a
voyage to Hlavre de Grace.
The firft article ftates the indenture to witnefs, "that
"the faid Groverman hath granted and to freight letten
"to the faid R. T. Hooe and co. the brigantine Nancy,
f' whereof he is owner, commanded by James Davidfon, a
*' .citizen of the United States, now lying in the port of
" Alexandria, of the burthen of 197 tons, or thereabouts ;
96 and for and in confideration of the covenants herein
q after mentioned, doth grant and to freight let unto the
if laid R. T. Hooe and co. their executors and adminif" trators, the whole tonnage of the aforefaid vefl%called
c the Nancy, from the port of Alexandria, in Virginia, to
"1'the port of Havre de Grace, in France, and beck to the

if faid
"

port of Alexandria, in a voyage to be made by the faid
R. T. Hooe and co. with the faid- brigantine, in manner

herein after mentioned ; tz; at is to fay, to fail with the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ioo" &co. cc firft fair wind and weather that fhall happen after {he is
IV. ,91
completely laden, from the faid port of Alexandria, with
GROVER- " a cargo of tobacco to be fhipped by faid R. T. Hood and
MAN.
" co. to the faid port of Havre de Grace, and there de"
"liver the faid cargo to Meffrs. Andrews and co. of that
" town, merchants, or to their affigns, in good order, the
c danger of the feas only excepted ; and at the faid port
" of Havre de Grace to take on board a full freight or
" lading of fuch goods as the faid Andrews and co may
" think proper to put on board faid brigantine, as a return
" cargo, with which the faid veffel is to make the beft of
- her way dire~ly back to the port of Alexandria, and
" there fafely deliver fuch cargo to the faid R. F. Hooe
it and co."
Groverman further covenants with the faid R. T. Hooe
and co. that the vefill is and fhall, during the voyage, be
kept in good condition, and furnilbed with all manner of
necefl'ary and proper rigging, &c. and with mariners to
navigate her. He further covenants to allow twenty-five
running days for lading the veffel at the port of Alexandria, thirty days for difcharging her cargo and taking on
'board the return cargo at Havre, and ten days for receiving her inward cargo at Alexandria.
In confideration of thefe covenants, R. T. Hooe and co.
engage to pay the ftipulated freight, and [.8. 8. o. for
every day's demurrage, if any there fhould be by their
default at the port of Alexandria; and one hundred and
fifty-one-livres by the lay for every day's demurrage, occafioned by their defau't at the port of Havre de Grace.
On the i ith day of April provifional articles were entered into between the fame parties by which it was ftipulated, that,
i ft. " The captain or commander fhall be inftru6ted
"by his owner, previous to his failing from Alexandria,
" to touch at Falmouth in fuch manner as fhall appear
" to his. crew,' that there was a neceffity for his fo doing,
"there to lay off and on twenty-four, hours (or longer if
- defired) in day light, during which time there will come
- off orders front Mr. Fox, the American conful, Mr.
"'Thomas Wil~bn of London, or Meffrs. Andrews and
" co. of Iavre Ie Grace.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

231

2dly. "On receiving thefe Orders the captain or corn- HooE &co.
IV.
mu.t proceed direaly for Havre de Grace, LonGRovpft" don, Hamburg, Bremen or Rotterdam, as he may be diMAN.
, reted, and at one of thefe ports deliver his cargo, to
" fuch perfon or perfons as the aforefaid orders may di*" rea."
6-'nader

The third and fourth articles apply the covenants of the
charter party, refpe&ing the condu& of the veffel in the
porf of Havre, to the contingency of her being ordered to
fome other port; and to the freight, and ilipulate the demurrage to be 4. 6. 6. o. fterling by the day.
The fifth article is in there words.
If the veffel is detained over twenty-four hours at
Falmouth, demurrage fhall be paid for the time at the
" rate ftipulated in the charter party." On the oth of June,
1798,' the veffel arrived in Falmouth roads about three
leagues from the port of Falmouth, where the mafter laid
he.r to and immediately went on fhore, and applied to.Mr.
Fox, the American conf-ul', for orders where to proceed.
Fox replied that he had received no orders for him and that
therefore he muft bring the veffel into the port of Falmouth, and there remain until orders were received for
him to proceed to his port of difcharge.
5 th. "

There orders were given to avoid the penalties of the
Britiflh hovering a&,' which fubje&ed to forfeiture the vef/ci and cargo if found in the fituation in which the Nancy
would have been, if fhe had waited for orders without
entering the port. The captain immediately brought his
vetlel into port where fhe was feized on fufpicion of being
French property, and detained for nearly three months.
After the feizure, on the 23 d day of June, the captain received orders from Thomas Wilfon, through Fox,
to proceed with his veffel to London, there to deliver her
cargo.
This fuit is brought by Groverman to recover damages
againft R. T. Hooe and co. for this detention.
The declaration flates the charter party and p rovifional
agreement, and then affigns a breach of themnin th1fe

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HooE & co. words. "And the faid plaintiff doth aver that the faid brig
" arrived off Falmouth on the t9 th day of June, 1798o
'D.
49when the captain, by the orders of the aforefaid Mr.
GROVEP"c Fox, the agent of the faid defendants, conveyed her into
MAN.
" the port of Falmouth, by means whereof the faid brig
" was detained in the aforefaid portof Falmouth, more than
c twenty-four hours, to wit, from the 2oth day of June laft
cc aforefaid, to the i i th day of September in the year 1798,
'c when fhe failed by the orders of Andrews aud co. the
And
" agents for the faid defendants, for the Downs."
the declaration then charges that the defendant had not
paid the demurrage ftipulated in the charter party, or in
the provifional articles.
Iffue was joined on the plea of conditions performed,
and the jury found a fpecial verdi&, containing the fads
already ftated, and further, that before the veffel failed
from Alexandria the captain was told by R. T. Hooe,
that on his arrival off Falmouth he would receive inftructions from Mr. Fox, the American conful, and that he
muft abide by fuch inftru&ions ; and that it was by the
default of the defendants or their agents in failing to have
orders ready on the arrival of the faid veffel off Falmouth
as aforefaid, defignating and direing to which of the
ports of difcharge mentioned in the fecond article of the
provifional articles aforefaid, the faid veffel was to proceed,
and by the orders given to the faid Davidfon, (the mafter)
by the faid Mr. Fox, that the faid Davidfon did bring the
faid veffel to anchor in the faid port ofFalmouth, and that
the faid veffel and cargo were fubjecded to the feizure and
detention aforefaid ; if the law be for the plaintiff the
jury find C.794. i9. 9. Virginia currency, damages; if
the law be for the defendant, then they find for the defendants.
The circuit court was of opinion the law was for the
plaintiff and rendered judgment in his favor.
To fupport this judgment the fpecial verdia ought to
fhew that R. T. Hooe and co. the defendants in the circuit court, have broken fome covenant contained in the
agreements between the parties and that the breaches
affigned in the declaration are upon the covenant fo
broken.

VMR VARY,

1905,

3)

The breach affigned is the non-payment of demurrage Hooa &cc.
V.
Lipulated to be paid, for a longer detention than twentyfour hours at Falmouth ; and it is to be enquired whether GROVEP.
MAN.
the declaration makes a cafe fhowing demurrage to be
demandable, and how far the fpecial verdi&t futkains that
cafe.
The cafe made by the declaration is,
That on the arrival of the veffel off Falmouth the captain took her into port by ordqr of Mr. Fox, by means
whereof the was detained more than twenty-four hours.
The quefltion arifing out of this cafe for the confideration
of the court, is,
Does it ihew a breach of covenant on the part of R.
T. Hooe and co. which fubje~ts them to demurrage for
the detention fated ?
The fifth article is fuppofed to be broken. The words
of *the covenant are, " if the veffel is detained over 24
. hour's at Falmouth, demurrage fhall be paid for thp
4c time, at the rate ftipulated in the charter-party." If
this claufe provides for every detention whatever, however it may be occafioned, the enquiry is at an end, and
the judgment thould be affirmed. But on looking into
the provirional articles, the general expreffions,'here ufed,
will be found to be explained.

The firft of thefe articles flipulates that the captain
lould touch at Falmouth, there to lay off and on for
twenty-four hours (or longer if defired) in day light, during
which time there will come off orders from Mr. Fox the
American conful, Mr. Thomas Wilfon of London, or
Jdeffrs: Andrews and co. of Havre de Grace.
Here then is a power given to R. T. Hooe and co. to
detain the veffel longer than twenty-four hours, lying off
and on at the port of Falmouth, waiting for orders, and it
is the only -rational conftruftion which can be given the
contra& to fuppofe that the fifth article refers to tho
rftl.

SUPREME COURT U. R.
A certain number of days are allowed for lading the
Hooa & co.
veffel in Alexandria. But more days may be required,.
7.
GRovylt- in which cafe demurrageis to be paid.. So with refpeft
MAN.
to difcharging and, relading the veffel at the port of delivery in Europe ; and fo. with refpe& to the return cargo
in Alexandria: in each cafe demurrage is ftipulated in tm,.
event of a longer detention than is agreed on.
When, then, a time is given to wait for orders at Falmouth, it is reafonable to fuppofe that the demurrage,
which is. to be paid, for a longer detention than the time
given, relates to a detention 6ecai'oned by waiting for
orders, or fome breach of covenant by R., T. Hoot
an'd co.
The declaration does not flate the veffel to have waited,
lying off and on, for orders, but to have been taken into
port, by the orders of Mr. Fox, when fhe was feized and
detained by the officers of the BritifhgovernmentThe coven ant then was broken by taking the veffel into
por :, and ii is. to be enquired who is anfwerable for this
breach.
It has been argued that R. T. Hooe and 90. are anfwerable for it, becaufe,
i., Their orders for the. further prorecution of the
voyage ought to have been in readinefs as itipulated.
2. The veffel was taken into port by the orders of their
agent, for whofe a4s they are accountable.

3. The captain was, for the voyage, their captain ; and
the fipulation to lay off and on, therefore, being broken
by him, was broken by them.
. To the firft argument, founded on the non-reception
of orders, the obfervation already made may be repeated.
The declaration does not attribute the detention to that
caufe, but to a compliance with the orders of Fox 'in
taking the veffel into port.
If, however, the charge in the declaration had been
that orders were not ready on the arrival of the veffel,

FEBRUARY, 18o3.

.23

That charge would have been anfwered by the contra&l it- Hoop & coz
felf, which allows a delay of twenty-four hours for the
IV.
reception of orders, without paying demurrage, and a GROVER.
MAN.
longer time; if required, on paying therefor at the rate
f LT. 6. 6. o. fterling, by the .day.
The failure then to have the orders, for the further deftnation of the veffel, in readinefs on the arrival of the
captain, or even within the twenty-four hours after his
arrival, was no breach of contra& on the part of R. T.
Hooe and co. fince it was an event contemplated and provided for by the parties ; and the quefion whether in the
atual cafe which has happened, that is of a delay longer
than twenty-four hours in giving the orders, but of a
feizure before that time elapfed, R. T. Hooe and co. are
refponfible for demurrage accruing between the termination of the twenty-four hours and the receipt of the orders, cannot be made in this cafe, becaufe there is no allegation in the declaration which puts that faat in iffue.
The court will proceed then to confider whether,
2dly. R T. Hooe and co. are made accountable for
the veffel's being taken into port; fince that meafure was
adopted in purfuance of the iniruaions of their agent,
Mr. Fox.
ahe finding of the jury goes far to prove that the:de.
fendants in the court below have made themfelves re.
fponfible for the condu& of Fox. They find that R.
T. Hooe informed the captait before be failed from Alexandria, that on his arrival off Falmouth, he would receive orders from Mr. Fox, and that he muff abide by
fuch inftru~ions. This finding creates fome difficulty in
the cafe. But this communication from Mr. Hooe to
the captain ought to be taken, it is conceived, in connection with the provifional articles. Thofe articles explain
the nature of the orders to be received, and by which the
,captain, was dire&ed to abide. In them it is exprefsly
1hipulated that on receiving thefe inft'u6lions, the captain
Thould proceed direffly for Havre de Grace, London,
Hamburg, Bremen, or Rotterdam, as he fhould be direcled. The orders then which he was to receive and
obey, mult be fuppofed compatible with this agreement.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
14oat & co. This conitruffion is the more reafonable, becaufe, annex¢,. ed to the provifional articles, is an acknowledgment on
the part of the captain, that he was to a& conformably
Govto them. He ought not to have underftood declarations
MAN.
_.
of the .kind ftated in the verdi&, as dire&ing a departure from a written agreement entered into by the owner
and freighters of the veffel, and to which he had bound
himfelf to conform.
This article feems too to explain the power delegated
by Hooe and co- to Fox; and to fhow that he wastheir
agent for the p, ,ofe of direaing the further deflination
o the veffel, but for no other purpofe.
If this be the corre& mode of underRanding this part
of the verdi&, and it is believed to be fo, then the parti.
cular condu& of Hooe and co. did not authorize the captain to obey the orders of the American conful in taking
the veffel into port; nor are they refponfible for the confequences of that meafure unlefs they could be confidered
as refponfible for a violation of the covenant by the a& of
the captain.
If thefe fats are to be differently underftood, and the
communication made by Hooe to the captain is to be underftood as authorizing him to obey any'order -given by
Fox, though that order thould be direffly repugnant to.
the provifional articles, ftill the liability of Hooe and co,
in this fit, will depend on the queftion, whether the covenant to lay off and on at the port of Falmouth, was a covenant on the part of the owner, or of the freighters, of
the veffel. This depen'ds fo much on the queftion whe,
ther Groverman or R. T. Hooe and co. were owners of
the veffel for the voyage, that it will more properly be
confidered with that point,
or

3. Was the captain under the dire&ion of Groverman
oe and co. for the voyage?

This is to be determined by the whole charter party,
and the proviflional articles taken together.
It has bee-obferved at the bar, and the obfervation has
"C0nfiderahle weiithbat Groverman lets the ternagt of

FEBRUARY, 1803.
the veffel, and not the whole veffel, to the freighters. Hoop & co.
q7.
The expreffion of the charter party, it will be perceived,
varies in tbh. part defcriptive of the agreement, from what GRovmt.
MA N.
is ufed in the part conftituting the written agreement.
1 he indenture witneffes, ,that the faid Groverman bath
"-*
6 granted, and to freight letten, to the faid R. T. Hooe
""and

co. Mke brigantine Nancy, whereof he is owner,"

&c. but immediately proceeds to fay, " and for and in
" confideration of the covenants herein after mentioned,
" doth grant and to freight let to the faid R. T. Hooe
" and co. the whole tonnage of the aforefaid veel, from the
" port of Alexandria, in Virginia, to the port of Havre
cde Grace, in France," &c. As the latter are the operative words which really conftitute the contr&, it is
conceived that they ought to prevail in conftruing that
tontra&t. Groverman, then, has only let to Hooe and
.o.the tonnage of the veffel, and therefore is the lefs to
be confidered as having relinquifhed ownerfhip of her
during the voyage. There are other circumftances which
ferve to (how that the direation of the veffel, during the
voyage, was intended to remain with Groverman. The
cargo is to be deliered to Meffrs. Andrews and co. of
Havre de Grace, in good order, the danger of the fear,
only excepted. This is, an undertaking on the part of
Groverman, which he certainly would.not have made if
he had relinquiihed the direSion of the voyage to Hooe
and co. If the veffel, pro hac vice, had bern their veffel,
rGroverman would not have contrated for the delivery
of the cargo; and for the delivery to a fpecified perfon."
If the freighters had owned and commanded the veffel
they might* have -delivered the cargo in Havre, to' any
other perfon, or have difcharged at a port ifort of Havre,
without injury to Groverman. . So the cargo taken on
board at Havre-is to be fuch as Andrews and co. may
think proper ; whicb return cargo is to be delivered to
Jlooe and co. in Alexandria. Thefe ftipulations all indicate that the voyage was to be performed under the orders
of Groverman, becaufe the ats Itipulated are to be done
by him, and the covenants are his covenants.
This is further evidenced by the fubfequent languaga
of the charter party. [he fucceeding fentence begins
with the words, " And the faid Groverman dothfmther

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'HooE & co. 'covenant to and with the faid R. T. Hooe and co." &c.
'v.
fhowing that the preceding covenants were all on the
GRovER.
MA..

''be

part of Groverman.
[his further covenant is not only
for the prefent condition of the veffel, but that he (hall

kept well apparelled and well manned by the faid
Groverman during the voyage. The captain, then, was
Groverman's captain, the mariners were Groverman's
mariners ; and this furni/hes an additional reafon for fuppofing the captain -and mariners to be under his direffion.Alter fome further covenants on the part of Groverman the charter party proceeds thus, " In confideration
"' whereof the faid R. T. Hooe and co. do covenant, &c.
" to and with the faid W. Groverman, &c. that-thiy
" will well and truly pay the freight ftipulated therein."
Thus the whole language of the charter party goes to
prove that the covenants refpeffing the voyage are on the
part of Groverman, and on that account, as well as on the
account of his letting only the tonnage of the vefel, and
furnifhing the captain and mariners, &c. he is to be confidered as the owner of the veffel for the voyage, under
the charter party. This opinion is ftrengthened rather
'than weakened by the provifional articles.
The firft article ftipulates that particular inftru&ions
refpe&ing the voyage fhall be given to the' captain, by
Groverman, before its commencement. The words are,
" The captain or commander (hall be inftruaed by his
c, owner, previous to his failing from the port of Alex"

andria, to touch at Falmouth,"

"

there to lay off and

cc on twenty-four heurs (or longer if defired) in day light,"
&c. Thefe orders, then, to the captain were to be. given by Groverman, and it was by his. authority that the
captain was to a& on that occafion. This explains the
doubt as to the perfon who was tobe confidered as covenanting that the veffel hould lay off and on, for twentyfour hours, at the port of Falmouth, and tends to (how
who was rfpon1fible for the breach of that covenant.

This too is in addition to covenants in the charter party
which arc plainly Groverman's, and is therefore the more
to be confidered as a covenant on his part. The a& was
to be performed by his. authority, and the covenant was his
covenant.

F EBRUARY, 1803.
On a confideration, then, of the whole contra& be- Hoot & Co.
IV.
tween the parties, the court is of opinion that Groverman
remained the owner of the veffel during the voyage, and GRovlR.
MAN.
is anfwerable for any mifcondua of the captain.
The covenant to lay off and on at the port of Falmouth,
being the covenant of Groverman, the freighters are not
qnfwerable in this a&ion, for the breach of it, fhould
the orders of Fox be underftood as their orders. It is
probable that the courfe taken by the captain was the
moft prudent courfe ; but were it otherwife, the orders of
Fox might excufe the owner from any aaion brought'by
the freighters for lofs fuftained by them in cbnfequence
of going into Falmouth, but could not entitle him in this
a&ion againft the freighters.
It is then the opinion of this court, that on this fpecial
verdi&, the law is for the defendants.
Judgment reverfed, and the circuit court to enter judgment for the defendants.
GABRIEL WOOD,

ORIGINAL DEFENDANT,
V).

WILLIAM OWINGS AND JOB SMITH,.
ASSIGNEES

WILLIAM ROBB, A

BANKRUPT,

OF
ORIGINAL PLAINTFPr,

ERROR from the fourth circuit court fitting
at Baltimore.

Woot
IV.
OWINGS.

This was an aaion on the cafe, for money had and received by Wood to the ufe of Robb, the bankrupt.
Judgment below was entered by confent, fubje& to the
opinion of the court on a caf¢ fating the foblowing'faft,
vtiz.

'-v--

1

A deed of lands
in Maryland,
figned, fealed,
and delivered
on th: 3 oth of
May, and ,-

