332

SUPREME COURT U. S,

WEPBUitN & as to enititle them to a receipt for the deed and power deDuNDAS

AULD.

livered ; but neither the general principles of juftice, nor
of law, give Hepburn and Dundas a right to infift upgn
any releafe as a previous condition.
The cafe has been argued at bar, as if the condition
of the tender of the deed of affigniment and power of
attorney had been a releafe of all claims and demands, to
be given at one and the fame time with the delivery of
fich deed and power, but this is not the cafe as prefented
in the pleadings. According to the plea, Hepburn and
Dundas required the delivery of the releafe as a condition
precedent to their livery of the deed of affignment.
This demand feems not to have been countenanced by
the contra& ; and of confequence the tender was not
fuch as it was incumbent on Hepburn and Dundas to have
made, in order to entitle themfelves to the money for which
they have brought this fuit.
Judgment affirmed with cofts.
MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY
oF ALEXANDRIA,
V.

INSURANCE

co. or

JAMES YOUNG.

ALEX.
'v.

You Nr..
.4funlofft

will
not 1,. upon a

t

poliy of infur-Of
ance under the the

THis was an alion brought in the circuit court,
the diftrit of Columbia, by James Young, againft

Marine Infurance Company of Alexandria, upon a policy
corporate feal, of infurance on the brigantine Liberty at and from Anacalunlefs ane
confidera ew beffa in Jamaica to a port in the United States. The dee claration ifated, that " James Young complained of the
avetrd
ue...
whether "c Marine Infurance Company of Alexandria in cuflody, &c.
an
t&gregate 19of a plea, for that whereas," &c. fetting forth the poc~rporati-)n can
mak(e an ,r- licy in the ufual form. " In witnefs whereof the prefident
afrumpfit, " and diretors of the faid Marine Iifurance Company of
jrfs

FEBRUARY, 1803.

333

Akexandria, by William Hartfiorne their Prefident, IIsuR^Ale
fubfcribed the fum affured, and caufed the common ,eal, co OF
ALEX.
"c and the atteftition of their fecretary, to be affixed to
IV.
" the faid prefents." It then alleged the ptoperty of the
YOUNG.
value
the
of
was
it
that
and
plaintiff,
the
in
be
veffel to
of 5000 dollars, the fum infured. That
โข the faid Marine unlef., lpeciallr
Infurance Company, in confideration of the premium, to authqzedi y
be paid by the plaintiff, "did undertake and agree, by their flatui ?
" policy aforefaid, fubfcribed by their prefident aforefaid, Whe:ther an
- p: " with the proper hand and name of the faid preildent a io
l~c-"
wilR lie
,thereto affixed, to affure the faid veffel, &c. at the faid againi this
"
"

i fum of 5ooo dollars, againft the rifks fpe~ificd .n the compay, in
faid policy." That the plaintiff had paid the premium, their
name?corporate
Or
and that the veffel was totally loft, of which lofs the corn- wh7iher tOr
pany had notice ; " By means *of zvhich faid premifes te declaration
"faid Marine Ifurance Company of Alexandria became ha- muft not be
againi
" ble to pay to the faid plaintiff the faid fum of 5o00 dol.
Prefidentwz

lars, and being fo liable the faid Marine Infurance Corn- alone ?
:pany, afterwards, to wit, on the fame day and year A verdi& will
"aforefaid, at the county aforefaid, affirmed upon themfilvei, net ee-e a mirtc and to the faid plaintiff then and there faithfully proni- ure of the ac" fed," to pay him. the faid fuin of money v hen thereunto tio.
afterwards required.
A judgment in
aia/Jmpjlt
policy iiupon
a bair

There was another count, Rfating generally, thai in
confideration that the plaintiff would pay the premium
of four per cent. upon the value of the yeffel, the infurance company 49undertook and agreed" to infure, &c. at

to a fubequent
aien of c,,anton tafamc
Atb
ri
the fum of Sooo dollars, againft fea rifks only, at and every affumpfit

from Anacabeffa in Jamacia, &c. to a port in the United in the deelarais to he taand,. that the vef- 'ion
States; that he had paid the premium,hi''h
ken asan~x
fel was ftranded- and loft, of which the Infurance Com-rtn a an
pany had hotice ; by means of vhih faid prenmfes the
faid company became lin.le, &c. and fo being liable aj.!med
upon them/elves and prowifed to pay, &e. Nevertheiefs the

faid defendants, not regarding their feveral promifes and
undertakings aforefaid, but contriving, &c. refufed to pay,
to the damage of the plaintiff io,ooo dollars. Plea Y,:t
a ,mpferunt and iffue. Verdia for plaintiff on the firl?
count, and for defendant on the other count.
Motion in an arreft of judgment; " becaufe the firft
" count is in affum/zt upon afealed iSb1rument fet forth
" in the faid count, as containing the contra& whereupor

SUPREME COURT U. S.
INUR\NCE

co. oF
ALEX.

IV.

YouNt .

c the ation aforefaid is brought." Judgment for the
plaintiff; to reverfe which judgment the Infurance Company obtained the prefent writ of..error; and the errors
atfigned were,
"

y.

That affumpfit is brought upon a fealed con-

9 trac."
s.

"That the Marine Infurance Company of Alex-

andria, being an aggregate corporation, is fued upon
"affiampfit, inftead of upon covenant."
3- " That the judgment upon the verdi6t aforefaid
a ought to have been arrefted."
4- "c That according to the ad of incorporation, the
" a(tion aforefaid, if maintainable at all, fhould have

been, commenced and profecuted, againft William
,"Hartfhorne, prefident of the Marine Infurance Corn"pany."
"

E. Y. Lee and C. Lee, for plaintiffs in error.
&mms and St'ann, for defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error, it was faid,
ift. that the declaration ftates the policy to be under
t&-c common feal, and the law is clear that affumpfit will
not lie upon a fealed inftrument.
The adion ought to
have been covenant, and not cne. The difference is, that
when the fpecialty is only inducement to the promife, and
a new confideration intervenes, afiumpJit will lie ; but
where the only contra&, which is ftated as the caufe of
liability of the defendant, is fully and entirely contained
in the fpecialty, and no circumrfance is added but fuch as
is provided for by the fpecialty, there it will not maintain
a general indebitatux arionpfit, which is the prefent form of
a6tion.
The declaration ifates that the Infurance Company by
their policy, under the common feal, infured 5ooo dollars
on the brig, and that the veflil was loft, whereby the company became liable, and, being fo liable, affumed to pay.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

335

This is the whole fubflance of the declaration. No n:.w lNsu KA C*
co. oF
confideration is alleged. The whole ground of liabiiity
Ai Fx.
of the plaintiffs in error is their policy under their corn
IV.
mon feal. And in fuch a cafe the a6tion muff be co Marhall on i'zfurance, 596. Park, 396.

nant or debt.

VCVNC.

" The a& of parliament 6. G. i.c. 18. by which the
cc two Infurance companies" (of England) (Iwere ere6led,
" ordered that they fhould have a common feal, by affix" ing which all corporate bodies ratify and confirm the;r
" co,traCs. Hence a policy made by either of thofe com44panics is a contra-t underfeal; and if the contra& is
14broken, the anion muff be debt or covenant.". -.
Term rep. 479. Fo/ter v. Allanfon, and the cafes there

cited. In that cafe there was a new caufe of action an'
a feparate independent confideration.
Cro. Car. 343, Brett v. Read. I Bac. ab x64.

In the

cafe of Bairdand Brigs v.Blaigrove, in the court of ap-

peals of Virginia, x. 7Vaf,. rep. 17 o, there yeas a fubfequent
new confideration and parol agreement exprefsly proved,
and upon that ground the court decided that affumpfit
would lie. See 2. Calls. rep. 258. Taliaferro v. Robb.
The cafe of Pdly v. Governor and company of the royal e.?,change a/urance, i. Bur. 341. is an afion of covenank
upon a policy; fo is the cafe of Wariey v. Wood, 6. 'Terr'
rep. 7IO. and Tarleton v. Staniforth, 5- Term'rtp. 695.
afumpflt will not lie upon a fpecialty. i. Efp. N. P. 9Doug. 6. Walker v. Wilter. Cro. 7ac. 213. Buckingham
v. Cojlendine. 2. Strange
1027,
1028. Bulflrode v. Gilburn. Cro. Jac. 505. Bennus v. Guyldley. Cro. Jac. 598.
Dartnalv. Morgan. Cro. Car. 6. Holme v. Lucas. C-o.
Car. 3x. Foler v. Smith. Cro. Eliz. 242. Reade v. John.
fon. i Roll. ab. 8. Hutt. 34. Green v. Harrington. Cro,
Eliz. 283. Pyers v. TYurner.

If this afion is fuftainable in law, then the rule requiring a plaintiff to flate in his declaration his caufe of
aaion will be ufclefs. The reafon of that rule is, to
afcertain whether the contraa is under feal or not, Buller,
N. P. 128. And if the judgment of the court below is
0 By the iX.G. I.-. 30. ยง,43. which recites the inconveniences refult.
of the policies
of thefe two compauies being ,Pder

ing from the neoeflity
foal, by reaffon

of

ther being corporate bodies, they are authorized to

plead generally niadtent, and to give the fpecial mat:cr in evidence, &

SUPREME COURT U. S.
fNSURANCE

Co. OF
ALEX.

IV.
YoUNc.

correa, an a&ion of affumplit may be maintained upon
a bond or any other fealed inftrument. The notice ifated
in the declaration, is what the plaintiff below was bound
to give, becaufe the company were not liable, ,by their
covenant to pay, until proof of the lofs was produced,

and adjufiment thereof made. This is only one of the
fads neceffary to produce a liability under the covenant
itfelf, and not any new confideration, nor is it ifated as
fuch in the declaration. The declaration does not fay " in
" confletation wvhereof;" but fimply, ,"fo being liable," af-

fumed to pay fo that the affumpfit alleged, is nothing
more than the very agreement contained in the policy.
2d. An ation of affumpft, upon an exprefs contraCt,
will not lie againfr an aggregate corporation.
They can do no valid a& but by their common feal,
by which alone the union of the wills of the feveral members can be teftified; and the affixing of the feal makes
it a covenant. Perhaps an exception to this rule might
bc; made by the ad which creates fuch an aggregate body
politic ; but here is no fuch exception made as will apply
to the prefent cafe.

Mar#all on infurance 596.

3 d. If any ation is maintainable upon this policy, it
ought to have been brought and profecuted againft the
prefidesit
of the company and not againRf the body poli*

tic.

The words of the ad, which incorporates the compa.
ny (ac7li of afembly f Virginia, 1797, C. 20, ยง.9, and it)
are, "That all policies (hall befigned by the prefident, or
"9 in cafe of his inability to attend, by the prefident pro
"

tempore, and counter-figned by the fecretary."

"

That in cafe any ation (hall be profecuted upon any
policy fo fubfcribed, the fame hall be brought againft

. i i.

The capias ad. refp. in this cafe was againft " William ,Har/orne,
pr'td;nt of elc Mari,,

Infur,.e Company of Alexandria "

The declaration was againfi the company in their corporate name.
This form of proceeding, by the better, opinion, feemed to be ccrre&.
By the form. of proceedings in Virginia, which are in fame refpe&s

fimilar to thofe in the kings bench in England, the capias is not confidered as any part of the record of the aaion, which is fuppofed to comp,
mencc upon the filing of the bill, or declaration.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
" the prfudent fubfcribing the fame, or his fucceffor in of- INsUt.,%Nc
co. OP
" fice; and all recoveries had in fuch acqion or aflions

c fhall be conclufive on the company, fo far as to render the
"flock of the company liable, and no further."

Although the fixth fe-ion of the fame a& enables the
company to fue and be fued by their corporate name,
yet as the fubfequent fedions prefcribe the manner of making policies, and the mode of proceeding in affions upon
them, the latter feaions mufi be confidered as fo far refinding the general expreffions of the former. Generak
words in one cinutL of a ftatute may be reftrained by particular words in a fubftquent claufe of the fame flatute,
and the whole ought to be fo conftrued, that, if it can be
prevented, no claufi', fentence, or word (hall be fuperfluous, void, or infigaiificant.. 4. Bac. ab. 645.
The declaration is bad in flating the body politic to be
i. cuflody ofthe rnartal. i, Bac. ab. 507.
4 th. If it fliould be faid, that this declaration is good
after verdi& ; the anfwer is, that the verdict will not
cure a declaration, which fhows that the plaintiff is entitled only to an adlion cf a different nature. The title is
not defedively let forth, becaufe every fa& is flated which
fhows that the plaintiff is entitled to an adion of covenant.
A miftake in the nature of the a-ion is not cured by the
In all the cafes before cited, the qucfflatute of jeofail..
tion as to the form of adion came on upon motion in arreft of judgment, and it is nGt even hinted that the error
was cured by verdid". 2. T'erm Rep. 479. Foler v. A/ianfon. i. Wajhington's Rep. 17o. Baird v. Blaigrove.

No affumpfit can be prefumed, after verdid, to have
been proved on the trial, but that which is alleged in the
declaration. x Term Rep. 141. Spieres v. Parker.
A verdid will not aid a cafe where the g/t of the affion
is omitted. Cowpe: , 825. Avery v. Hoole. Nor does the
claule of the Virginia flatute of jeofails, which ftates that
a verdi& (hall cure the omillion of the averment of any
matter without proving which, the jury ought not to have
given fuch a verdi&., extend to a cafe where the declaration omits to ftate the ground of the aflhmpfit, 2. Wa"l,.

U

;ALIx.

YoUN).

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1NAUXANCI
CO.

OF

A.Ex.
yIV.

YQvio.

re*. 187. WiJqon v. Francifco, t Call's rep. 98, IOt, lot.
Chiche/ter v. Vafs. 4. Bur. 2 4 5S. Doug. 654. (679.)
Ruzton v. Afpinal. A recovery in this a&ion would be
no bar to a recovery in an adion of covenant for the fame
lofs. i Call 102. ChichEfler v. Vaft. 4 Bac. ab. 14. Cro.
Car. 6. Holme v. Lucas.
For the defendant in error it was contended,
i ft. That this policy is not a fpecialty.
2dly. If it is a fpecialty, yet there was a fubfequent
affumpfit upon a'new confideration.
3 d]y. That if it be a fpecialty, and no new promife fufficient to fupport an a&ion of afumpjit, yet the declaration
is a good declaration iA covendnt, efpecially after verdid.

ift. The declaration does not declare on this policy as
upon a deed. It does not fay that the company covenanted by their deed : but only that Young did, by a policy
vfinfurance fubfcribedandattefted as hereiii after mentioned,
make infurance and caufe himfelf to be infured, loft, or
not loft, &c. upon t., body, &c. of the brigantine LiberAnd fo they, the affurers, were contented, and
ty, &c.
did therebypromife and bind themfelves fo the affured for
the true performance of the premifes, confeffing t-hemfelves paid the confideration, &c. In witnefs whereof
the prefident and diredors of the faid marine infurance
company of Alexandria, by William Hartfhorne their prefident, fubfcribed the .fitm afured, and caufed the common
feal and the attef/ation of theirfecretary to be affixed to the
faid prefents in the town of Alexandria, on the faid 1 7 th
day of DecemLer j Soo. The plaintiff then avers, that in
confideration of the premium, &c. they did undertake and
agree by their policy aforefaid, fubfcribed by their prefident
aforefaid, with the proper haid and name of the faid prefident thereto affixed, to aflure the faid veffel, at the fum of
5ooo dollars, &c. There is no profert of the policy, as
of a deed. In fad, it is not a deed. To mke it a deed,
it muft be fealed with the inent to make a deed, which
would be contrary to their ad of incorporation. The company had ilo power to make a policy under foal. The ad
prefcribes the mode by which they flall make policies;

FEBRUARY, iSo3 .
which is only by thefigning of the prefident and counter- Nsua.Akics
figning by the fecretary. Although there are not negative
co. 0.
AL.
words by which other modes are exprefsly prohibited, yet
the faying that a thing fhall be done in one manner is an
implied negative of all others The prefident aid three YouNr.
of the diredors are empowered by the a& to make infurance, but the policies muff be certified in a certain manner. They have no right to bind the company by a policy under feal. They have no right to ufe the common
feal for any purpofe, unlefs particularly empowered by the
conftitution or bye-laws of the company If the company
have improperly put a feal to the inftrunent, which the
aCt of incorporation intended Thould be afimple contra&,
and not a fpecialty, it is their own a&, and they have no
right to complain. But ihall it be permitted for the Marine Infurance Company to fay, that by their own aCt,
contrary to law, they have deceived the plaintiff below,
and therefore, he mhall not recover in this.form of aftion ?
After having defeated him in this aCtion, and driven him
to bring an aaion of covenant, what will prevent their
turning round and faying, that this policy is not a fpecialty ? Phe company had no power to make a policy under
feal, or if they had, the feal has been affixed by perfons,
having no authority from the company, or perhaps by
miftake. , The objeftion does not go to the merits of the
caufe. If there was an error, it was beneficial to the
company, in as much as it was a rclinquifhment of ftrict
right on the part of the plaintiff below, and enabled the
company to make their defence with much lefs rifk, as it
enabled them to give in evidence, on the plea of non affumpfit, thofe fa&s which muft have been fpecially pleaded
to an a&ion of covenant. The intention of the legiflature in prefcribing the mode of making policies, evidently
was, that they mbould not be fpecialties, but only fimple
contra~ts, fo as to avoid the neceffity of fpecial pleading.
If the principle be correit, that the company cannot make
a policy but under feal, the confequence will be extremely
mifchievous to their interefts. They will be always involved in the intricacies of fpecial pleading, and the merits of the cafe will be often loft in the fubtlety of legal
diftin&ions.
Who has the power of ufing the common feal ? Not
the prefident alone, nor any number of the direCtors, but

SUPREME COURT U. S.
?%tTR ANC F

Co OF
ALEX.

thecompany only. But the declaration does not ftate this
tc be the feal of the company, but the feal of thefecretary ;
t.c words are, " hay: caufed the common feal and attef"'tation ?f thefecretary to be affixed."
-2d. But if the policy is a fpecialty, yet there is a fufficient a.jvfl-ftt alleged in the declaration to fupport this
action.
The affion does nbt depend only upon the fads fet
forth in the policy. The declaration ftates other fads,
fuch as the notice to the company, the proof of the lofs,
and an exprefs affumpfit to pay. Thefe are confiderations
abundantly fufficient to fupport the adion. , Ifthe plairrtiff has two remedies he may take which he piea'es. A
judgment in this cafe would be a bar to an adion upon
the covenant. *
It is a trange pofition that affumpfit will not lie in any
cafe againft an aggregate body politic, upon an exprefs
contrad. Such a corporation cannot ad in any cafe but
by the intervention of agents. But by thofe, it may contra6t debts by fimple contrad, as well as by fpeciality.
The Eaft India company have their agents all over the
world, and there never was a queftion, whether fuch
agents could make promifes binding on the company purfuant to powers given by the com l a ny, for that purpofe..
By what law are the banks authorifed to bind themfelves
by promiff'"ry notes ? Yet the gentlemen will not fay
that they are not liable upon their notes. 3 P. IWilliamr,
419, Rex v. Bigg. i Strange, 18. S. C. 2. Burr. 1216.
.Edie v. E. L Company.

Where the fpecialty is only in-

ducement to the adion, and upon f761s growingout of the
fpecialty an aflmpJfit is made, the atlion of Tianpfit
u
will lie2. q'erm re,. 4,33. Mora ia v. Levy. The declaration ftates
the policy, tbe failing oi the veffel,'the lofs, noticeto the infurers, and thereupon an exprefs qafumpfit to pay the fum of
500 dollars. Thefe new facdts bring the ca1e wi-hin the
reafon of the decifion in the cafe of Moravia v. Levy. Af* The court faid there could bc no doubt of that; if Cte dccdaration
iufficiently fhowed it to ba the fame caufe of adfion.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

341

ter verdi&, every affumpiit alleged in the declaration is to
bc taken as an e.x.refi affuinpfit. *

policy is to be confidered as a fpecial-rt
3 d. But if this
ty, and there is no new confideration fufficient to fupp,
the aqunp#fit, yet this is a good declaration in covenant.
It Rtates the policy, and the fads which conftitute a
breach of the agreement and create a liability on the defendants below. That part which Rates an affinpfit may
be rejeded as furpluffage, and the refidue will make a
good declaration in covenTnt. The want of profert is
cured by the verdid. 2 Wifon 362. (2,jiere) Nor-will the
iffue of non affumpfit, render the judgment erroneous. It
has been held that in an adion of affumpfit, and not guilty
pleaded and iffue, the judgment may be entered, for it is
only mifpleading, and the real merits may as well be tried
on that iffue as on any other. 4 Bac. ab. 84.
It is not neceffary that the adion fhould be profecuted
againft the prefident of the company. It could not be the
intention of the legiflature, that the private property of
the prefident fhould be liable to fatisfy a judgment upon a
policy made on account of the company, and that he ihould
be left to get his moncy back again from the company. By
the a& of incorporation, the joint frock only is liable. The
expreffions of the aa warrant the pradice in this cafe, of
bringing the capias only againft the prefident, and then
declaring againft the company; for it only fays, that the
adfion fhall be brought againft the prefident, and not that
he
it fhall be prcfecuted againft him to final jucdgment. 't
intention of the a& could only be to compel an appearance, and to give the prefident the power of entering an
appearance in the name of the company. The a& fays
that all fuch recoveries fhall be conclafive on the compajoint frock liabL, and no iurny, fo fir, as to render tl,.
ther.
The rixth feffion of the a& renders the company ilable
to adions in their corporate name; and as the writ is no
part of the record, and t~e company have appeared and
pleaded, it is now too late for them to allege this for error.
*Tis was admitted by the Chitf juflice'.

INSURACZC

Co. up
ALEX.

.1)

SUPREME COURT U. S.
INSUPAticE
CO. OF
ALFX.

I".

They ought not to be permitted to take the chance of a
trial, and when the merits have been found againft them,
come forward and fay, they are not the proper perfons
againft whom the fuit ought to have been brought.
In reply, it was faid, that the policy is in the ufual
form; a form which is generially ufed, whether the policy
be under feal or not: hnd therefore no argument can be
drawn from the peculiar expreffions of the inftrument.
The declaration ifates it to be under the common fea,
which is a technical name for the feal of a corporation.
The aa which creates this company has no negative
words by which they are forbidden to make policies under feal if they think proper. The claufe which authorizes them to make a policy by the fignature of the prefident, without the common feal, was introduced for their
benefit, fo as to enable them to defend aaions without the
neceffity of that fpecial pleading which often attends actions of covenant. The general maxim of law is that
every one may wave a provifion introduced for his benefit.
The a&t of incorporation lays, that when any action
fhall be profecuted upon fuch policy, the fame ]1 all be
brought againt the prefident who fubfcribed the fame, or
his fucceffor in office, and all recoveries in fJich adions
Thall be concliive on the company. Not only the capias
muff be againit the prefident, but the declaration and
judgment. How the judgment is to be fatisfied is not for
is now to determine, nor is it important. The mode of
recovery prefcribed by the law muft be purfued.
March Ift 1803. The Court reverfed the judgment,

ordered it to be arrefted, becaufe the alion is a fpecial action upon the cafe on the policy, and the declaration fhows
that the policy is a fpecialty.
The court feemed to be of opinion that an aaion of
covenant would lie upon it againf the company in their
corporate name.

